Welcome to Breeder's Syndicate, where we explore the history of a clandestine
scene through the eyes of the folks who lived it. I'm Matthew, owner of Riot Seeds.
I'll occasionally be joined by my co-host NotSoDog, breeder and grower
from Mendocino. Welcome to the underground.
So this is an old conversation with the homie ResinLung. He's been MIA for a
little bit but we miss him quite a bit. He's a funny, funny dude. So I hope you
guys enjoy. So let's talk homie, let's chop it up. What do you want to talk about?
Tell these folks about your experience with the Kush. How you came
about it, your first interaction with it, seeing it in LA, shit like that.
Fuck, you want exact dates? No, no, fuck the dates. It was a long time ago.
That shit changed my life, dude. I thought I grew the best weed on earth, dude.
And then I smoked some Kush and realized I grew bunk-ass weed. I had to get the cut, dude.
It was early, it was like 2000 when I got the cut around there.
Yeah, when it came under your grasp? Yeah, I had some buddies that were
fucking blowing it up, dude. They were fucking legends up here in the valley.
Fuck, I don't know. Fuck, you know what's funny is as long as I've grown to
know you and we become friends and shit, I really realized like when you said that
those guys were legends in the valley, they actually were legends in the valley
for the OG. All of it's true and verified over time, man.
Yeah, it's no joke. We grew a shitload of fucking OG, dude.
A lot of people puffed on OG because of the fucking weed we grew. Lots of it, man.
Talk about how you guys did some of those fucking mansions. How you guys
fucking bust them up and fucking... Dude, we'd take whole shots of the fucking
things. We would just chew them up, dude. We didn't give a fuck, dude.
It would cost us fucking 20 grand to get the fucking place fixed after a year, dude.
You know, the floors and shit. Yeah, but that shit wasn't anything.
It was a drop in the bucket compared to what you guys were making.
Yeah, but it was expensive the way we grew weed. That's right.
It wasn't really cheap, you know. And fuck, we used to pay 500 a fucking day to get it trimmed.
It wasn't all profit. It was expensive. Although, yeah, we got good money for those pounds back in the day.
So, there's one story that fucking... I don't know if you can tell it though.
And it was just about how one of the many methods back in the day that you would have used to get it across the country.
I don't know if you should share that though or not. Is that for you?
Dude, it's been so long. One of the moves was those bounce houses.
Yeah, that's the one. Yeah.
You know, for parties and shit, you know, where like little kids jump up and down in them and shit.
So, there was a company who had a catalog of them and they had some that were giant, dude.
And like, they weighed like three tons and you would fucking have to unfold them in like an aircraft hangar and shit.
Yeah, yeah.
It was fucking huge. And so, we would go to the factory and fucking...
Before they folded them up, we would fucking put our shit in there and they'd fold them all up.
And then we'd stuff the trucks full of them and shit and fucking send them to Atlanta.
Most of it went to Atlanta, you know?
Yeah, nobody wants to fucking open up one of them bouncy houses.
Fuck no, dude. It would take 10 dudes.
I mean, fucking... Once you got past fucking, you know, out of California, most police stations didn't have 10 dudes.
Yeah. Easy.
Yeah, but I mean, we lost a load or two before, you know?
Oh, there's still some in Oklahoma somewhere, supposedly.
Some in some fucking locker.
So, did you guys get a lot of seeds coming out of your packs back then?
Dude, after like 10 years, I probably got maybe...
This is 10 years, fucking 10 houses or more.
Probably 85 seeds.
That's right.
It wasn't that... Nah.
Like every 35 pounds, let's say a house would pull 35 to 40 pounds.
Yeah.
You'd probably get like two or three seeds.
Two seeds that were decent.
Yeah.
Nah, it wasn't a lot of seeds.
And you guys actually looked for them and checked for them so they weren't getting out, so you weren't making competition, right?
Right, you know?
But I mean, I know some of them did get through. I mean, fuck, it's just gonna happen.
And the amount we were charging for the pounds, the dudes that bought the pounds were gonna, you know, they were gonna keep them seeds, see?
Oh, fuck, yeah, they were.
That's what happened. I mean, fucking those seeds got bought, dude.
Because the price was so high for the fucking pounds.
And because it was so fucking dang, nobody had seen anything like that.
I mean...
It was a game changer, dude.
I'm telling you, it's a change life, dude.
I used to fucking be able to fucking make people puke at will.
It was pretty awesome.
It's pretty awesome.
Now they just need some Chem D, right?
Fuck.
Shut up, Murray.
I thought that was my stomach.
Yeah, fucking Murray's yelling at me already.
Fucking idiot.
But, uh...
My boy, the dude that taught me how to grow, he's still growing for fucking D.
He's still, uh...
He's still doing it.
Still doing it?
He's still doing it.
For the same crew?
Yeah.
That's crazy, man.
That it's lasted that long.
You know, a lot of shit folds up on itself because people fold on each other so often.
So that's pretty cool.
Dude, it was hard, dude.
That was probably my...
That's my most proudest thing is keeping that crew together.
Fucking, uh...
You know, a lot of personalities, a lot of egos.
Yeah, a lot of egos you got to manage.
Yeah.
Fuck.
I'm pretty good at fucking keeping people from fighting and shit.
Yeah, I don't know how you fucking keep a leash on me sometimes, but it works.
Gotta keep your eye on the prize, man.
That's right.
That's fucking right.
So what else did you...
I mean, what kind of cuts were floating around during the time when you were growing it?
Like, what were some of the other variations that were out there of the OG?
None.
None?
That because it was so early on in the scene, right?
Yeah, early on it was just Kush.
It was fucking...
And it was just called Kush, right?
It wasn't called OG.
It was just called Kush, right?
It was just called Kush.
And then it wasn't long.
Maybe a year or two later, we have to start throwing the OG on it.
I can't honestly say who threw OG on it first, but in the Valley, everything was OG.
You know, like fucking the OG van store, the OG McDonald's, fucking...
Yeah.
Because you bunch of Mexicans like to call everything OG.
Yeah, you know how we do.
That's how we do.
But fuck, dude, before that, everyone was growing Chronic and fucking AK, you know?
Yeah.
Blueberry and fucking pot of gold and all kinds of whatever.
Pot of gold and shit like that, yeah.
That shit came and it was fucking real deal.
Everybody else's weed was, you know...
I mean, it's killed...
You know, now we long for the fucking other stuff, but at the time, it was like,
dude, we got to get that cut.
Fucking...
Yeah.
There was no amount of fucking growing or no amount of attention you could give
to a plant that was going to...
There was...
Yeah, Josh D started it.
I don't know who asked that question.
Yeah, yeah.
Someone just asked that, but Josh D, he's always giving mad respect to Josh.
Yeah, he's the first.
He's in the valley.
He's the first, dude.
I think there was some dope, some killer dope, too, dude.
Yeah.
So, what was the strongest point, strongest weed you had smoking up to that
point before OG?
Dude, nothing even compared, dude.
I'm telling you, it was such a fucking...
It was so many levels above.
That's true.
But you didn't get involved with shit like Sour and Chem or any of that.
Never thought about it.
You were just doing OG.
Yeah, and dude, in the valley, I've never seen a pound of Chem.
I've never seen a pound of Sour.
It just flooded with OG, and that was that.
Yeah, nobody wanted it because it was all...
Everybody wanted OG.
There's no reason to grow it, you know?
I think over time, now that people are fucking a little more worldly, they're
like, oh, fuck, now I get it, you know?
Sure, sure.
Yeah.
It was all production, too.
We weren't fucking growing...
It was production, dude.
We were fucking running for pounds, dude.
There was no mixing and matching, you know, let's throw a couple of these plants in
the corner for this, and no, there was none of that.
It was just straight commercial crop and fucking trying to bang it out.
What was the name of the nutrient line that you guys used?
Super Veggie A and Super Veggie B.
There you go.
Buckets of salt.
Yeah.
And you can still get that shit, right?
You have to special order it?
No, no, you can get it.
A lot of the fucking...
The shops in the Valley, or, I mean, I don't even know how many are left, but
they all carry it.
It's pretty popular here.
Yeah, San Fernando Valley, dude.
Big 818.
That's the Valley.
The Valley.
There's only one Valley.
No, no, hey, there's the Curve Valley, yo.
Fucking Curve Valley.
Fucking Beyond Thunderdome and shit.
Fucking Meth, fucking Central.
Yeah, yeah, no, they were black in tears.
They were like black buckets with fucking red lids, but it was salty, dude.
The fucking buckets were crushed up.
Yeah, oh yeah.
Salt like a motherfucker, dude.
I still think salt's the bomb, dude.
Fuck, I mean, organics, whatever, dude, that's cool, but I'm into salt, bro.
Yeah, dude, I am the same way.
I tend to use hybrid methods for growing, but dude, if I had to choose one or the other,
I would still go salt always.
It's just about knowing how to fucking flush your weed, you know?
That's all it was.
And that's the other thing, too.
You know what was really impressive was that fucking recipe.
The shit was dialed in so perfectly, dude, so perfectly towards the, yeah, right, mango.
Fucking endure.
It was just dialed in perfectly, dude.
I don't know who did that.
When I came around, it was already done.
The recipe was already set by that time?
Yeah, whoever figured it out, got it to the, I mean, figured out perfectly.
It was perfectly dialed in.
Dude, I just realized you shaved, brother.
I know, I fucked up, dude.
Fucking pretty.
It wasn't the plan.
Fucking pretty.
It'll be all back by fucking in a month.
Yeah, that's a good part about being a fucking old cholo, right?
That shit grows like fucking.
Fuck, dude, it ain't even worth it, dude.
It hurts coming out.
So, yeah, like how many pounds were you like pulling per thousand watt?
Or were you running 600 watts back then?
No, it was a thousand.
Each house was like 20 lights or at least 20 lights.
And we were pulling like, dude, if we got two and a quarter, we were stoked.
We got two, we were stoked.
We pulled 40 pounds, dude.
Every fucking, you know, four times a year we were fucking good.
Yeah.
Because we had to tear the house down and fucking build it up again.
And it was a bitch, dude.
It was a constant.
We're constantly building and tearing down, dude.
Yeah, I bet.
It was never ending, dude.
And following fucking just a straight recipe each time doing it.
That would get tedious, dude.
Yeah.
And, you know, and every now and then someone would vary off of it.
The fucking shit would just go to shit.
I mean, because it was, you couldn't deviate from the recipe, you know?
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
I'm sure you realized real fast if someone was fucking up and deviating.
Oh, yeah.
No, and it was real easy to tell who the fuck was pinching off the top, you know, after
a little while, you know, all of a sudden.
Yeah.
You know, I know what 40 pounds looks like.
And then all of a sudden we're pulling fucking, you know, 35.
It was like, what the fuck?
I don't know what happened, dude.
It was like, all right, bro.
And even then it wasn't even worth fucking, you have to let them do it, dude, because
fuck, you know, we need to do this.
We couldn't get enough guys to fill the houses, you know?
Yeah, dude.
It was fucking...
You know, growers, it was the hardest thing to do, getting good growers, dude.
Because, you know, anybody who sat in a house for a long time, dude, it's a bitch.
Yeah.
Especially back then.
It wasn't like it is now.
It was a scary thing for a lot of people, dude.
And a lot of these weren't, you know, didn't know what they were fucking signing up for.
And they fucking, you know, they freak out.
Yeah, dude.
Yeah.
Because it got real serious, real fucking fast with that much money.
Yeah.
That's the other thing, too, is, you know, the money started getting big enough to where
you started to have to, you know, you got to think about...
Yeah, you got to...
It's a little more dangerous, you know?
Yeah, yeah.
It ain't dime bags to your homie in the parking lot of school and shit.
Exactly, man.
Yeah.
It's a different world now.
I think most people that grow now don't even understand, like, don't even understand that
any aspects of that kind of black market world that it was.
No.
Yeah.
No, I mean, you can't.
There's too many people doing it.
I mean, back then, dude, it was like we were fucking magicians, dude.
Like wizards.
No one did it, dude.
We had like secret, you know, we were like...
No one knew how to fucking do it, dude.
No one could...
Now everybody does it.
Now everybody, you know, which is cool.
But it ain't like it was.
I got out of it once they stopped being cool.
So yeah, that's...
Let's see, what else can we...
I'm trying to think of what other good stories that I've heard from you over the years.
Dude, there's so many.
I wish...
You know what I'm gonna say.
Yeah.
I wish I could fucking get a clearance from all my partners and shit.
Yeah.
No, you know, that's not the one I'm gonna talk about.
I'll talk about the squirrel.
Oh yeah, I snapped some fucking squirrel shit.
That's my favorite story.
Everybody that knows Rez and this has got to be their favorite fucking story.
So tell the world how you snapped a...
Took a little snapper of a squirrel turn.
I sunk it, dude.
I held it in for a minute too.
Dude, I was chilling in the front yard and shit at my buddy's house and this little fucking
out of the bush, dude, and like right up my arm and like up to my fucking head.
It was a little baby squirrel.
I was like, what the fuck, dude?
I thought it was a rat.
Dude, I was like running around the yard screaming and shit.
This fucking animal around me.
And put it in a shoebox and shit.
Found out, you know, not too long later his mom was smashed in the street or whatever.
So I took it home and raised it as my own.
Oh, isn't that sweet?
Eventually, you know, you gotta let the motherfucker go.
Cause they'll chew up your wires and shit.
They'll burn your house down.
Oh yeah.
So I let it go and he fucking started hanging out with other squirrels in the yard and shit.
They would come around.
So all of a sudden I got a lot of squirrels in the yard.
And I would fucking feed them nuts and shit and all kinds of stuff.
I would smoke bulbs in the fucking garage, right?
Squirrels would just come up all over the place, dude.
I don't know.
I wasn't paying attention.
So one day I was sitting there and I had my bomb.
And I see this little fucking, I thought it was like scissorhash, bro.
Yeah, I got all that shit laying around all over the place.
Perfect little fucking nug, dude.
It looked like it had a little bit of weed in it and shit.
And I was like, oh cool.
I put it in the bowl and yeah, it was fucking squirrel shit, dude.
Dude, that's fucking harsh talk, bro.
That's a harsh talk.
Yeah, it was bad, dude.
But yeah, now nobody fucking lets me forget that story, dude.
Fuck no, that's a great story, dude.
Snapping squirrel turds.
I still remember that thing going down.
So did you realize it right away as you tasted the fucking nuttiness and it burned your throat?
Yeah, dude, it was bad, dude.
It was fucking bad.
Probably had fucking plague fucking shit in it.
Dude, the bomb was long enough to tour.
It hadn't gotten into my mouth before I snapped it.
I pulled the carb and it was like.
Yeah, had the bomb been shorter, I wouldn't have fucking done it, dude.
Because as soon as it touched my mouth, I knew that shit wasn't weed.
It was like, that was harsh.
Yeah, it was squirrel turds, exactly.
That was pretty bad.
But there's a lot of stories, dude.
There's stories that are fucking crazy shit went down, dude.
Fucking, it was madness.
You know, because we were all just a bunch of fuck-ups, dude.
You know what we were doing, really?
Yeah.
Tried to play it off like we did, but.
Fucking, almost killing ourselves tapping fucking power lines and shit.
Having people blow themselves across the fucking room?
Yeah, this was back when you had to shave the fucking power line, dude, with a razor blade and shit.
You know, to fucking, this was before they sold those clamps and shit at the fucking hydro stores and all that.
It was gnarly.
All hearts, Ed, and that's why Resident doesn't like organics.
Squirrel turds.
Yeah, fuck squirrel turds, bro.
Yeah.
I found a picture of them.
I gotta fucking post it.
You have a picture of the squirrel, too?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Fuck.
The squirrel who shit in your mouth.
Fucking asshole.
You know, Bryn, for my birthday, she bought me a bunch of different stuff.
But she bought me this amazing book, and I just keep looking at it.
It's called Creative Cursing, right?
So, it has two different flap tiles that you can change, and it randomly makes up new words.
So, in this case, we have whore dumpster.
I like that one.
It's backwards on camera, but yeah.
Yeah.
Whore dumpster?
Rectum pincher.
Like, yeah, there's some good ones in this.
Rectum folds.
Yeah.
You can use that to find new names for your fucking strings.
Yeah, now I have all the fucking string names I need.
I can guarantee nobody's gonna be using this shit.
It's all random.
Produced by the Enigma machine.
The Enigma machine?
This is better than the Enigma machine.
So, yeah.
A lot of people know we're having the...
It is a private event, unfortunately, for some people.
But they know we're doing the big Candle Illuminati event.
Not a lot of people know, but Resin was the guy behind the party last year, and he's behind the party this year.
No, no.
It ain't my party.
It's our party.
It's fucking whatever.
It's our party, but yeah, you made it happen.
You made it happen.
I'd be there by myself if it wasn't you guys, dude.
I don't know nobody.
No, no, no, yeah.
No, you don't know fucking nobody.
You know what?
And a lot of people don't know this.
The only reason me and Caleb from CSI are really good friends now is because of Resin.
Resin and Denali both actually opened that door, but Resin initially opened that door for me to actually speak with Caleb.
And then we fell in love, and we now make butt babies.
I was stoked I was able to get you guys together, man.
If I had any part in that, that's cool.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, I mean, we both think we both we both agree that it was you that was the reason for the season.
Yeah, you're welcome, Jill.
Yeah, you guys don't even know, dude.
Hanging out with this dude in person, I get fucking asthma attacks.
Fucking asthma attacks.
This motherfucker has me fucking dying.
So, yeah, you guys are only getting a tiny little fraction.
He's getting a little loosened up right now, but we'll get him going over the next few weeks.
Fucking get him going and fucking telling stories about crazy ass shit.
Yeah, I'm a little shy, dude.
I gotta come out of my shell.
Yeah, you're a little shy.
You want the lights on, Indra?
To get the full effect of the beauty?
Nope.
Young Mexican George Washington.
Uh, yeah, I'm gonna get some clearances and shit.
Make sure I can fucking.
Yeah, for sure.
I'd like to.
I'd like to tell some stories.
It's about time.
Yeah, it is about time.
I think most of them would be cool with it that are, you know.
I bet they would.
Yeah, but it's always good to fucking talk.
Yeah, I gotta make sure.
Yeah.
Don't want some of them mean motherfuckers pissed off at you.
Right on.
Did you did you find a winner for the fucking season?
Uh, yeah, uh, dedication one.
I think they went.
I don't need.
I don't think I even screenshot the fucking final thing.
I'm out.
I think it was 750.
Not so bad, man.
No, not so bad.
This is a pink.
Get over here.
You yelling at Pinky?
Yeah, dumb dog.
That fucking dog is awesome.
It will eat your fucking hand, but it's fucking awesome.
Pinky!
Come here.
Get over here.
Pinky needs some screen time.
That's a beautiful dog.
It's retarded.
It doesn't even know its name, dude.
It's just looking at me like, what?
It doesn't need to know its fucking name.
Yeah, it's fucking kind of dumb.
Yeah, that's an awesome life, though.
Like to not even have to worry about your own fucking name.
Right.
You know, someone's going to feed you anyways.
I get jealous all the time looking at it, dude.
Fuck you.
Did you ever grow Bubba resin?
I did.
Not with the crew.
Like I said, the crew, that was a little side moves I did back in the day.
I did.
But the crew is smaller, like 10 light setups, you know?
Yeah.
Eight to ten.
Mainly to try and help some friends out.
You know, they were short on cash.
So I tried to set them up with some fucking house payments and shit.
Teach them how to grow.
Yeah, that's how you do.
Yeah.
But OG was, yeah, when we were going at it, dude, it was just OG.
There was no reason to fuck with anything else, dude.
No reason to change up which kind of OG and none of that shit.
Nah.
And you know, it was, you know, the fucking rent and everything was so expensive due to where we couldn't risk fucking.
We needed to know we could pull fucking this.
It had to be, you know.
It had to go like clockwork or fucking we were going to be in, you know, in the red.
Can you tell the Louis story?
Oh, yeah.
Louis.
All right.
So I used to go to fucking Sun Valley caregivers up there and I used to sell them some pounds and shit.
Yeah.
And I used to just drop it off, dude, because I didn't have no time to fucking wait to get paid and shit.
So sometimes I would drop off, sometimes I would just go for cash.
Yeah.
And so every time I did, I would fucking hit the dude up.
They were like Armenians and shit.
I think pretty sure they were Armenians.
Yeah, yeah.
I think that Louis is Armenian.
And every time I'd walk into that, I'd hit the dude up, let me get a cut, dude, let me get a cut.
The dude would always say, this cut cost two hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
I would fucking crack up, dude.
I would seriously crack up.
I really thought it was fucking hilarious.
But plus the guys, the look on the guy's face when I would just fucking start rolling on the floor, dude, fucking ridiculous price.
He didn't get it, dude.
He would just stare there and look at me.
Yeah.
And I'd go, seriously, dude, let me get a cut, dude.
And he'd say it again.
And I'd start laughing at him.
Fuck, I was a fucking bastard, dude.
I was a little dick.
But we did business and we were friendly enough like that.
Yeah.
But he didn't really dig it.
And so time goes on, time goes on, whatever.
And I get a call one day, dude, and it's him.
He's panicking.
He's fucking hitting me.
Did you come to the store?
Did you send anybody to the store?
And I was like, dude, I need those cuts back.
And I was like, what cuts?
And he's like, we sold a tray that got out that wasn't supposed to get out.
And I need it back.
And I was like, dude, if you want it back, I'm going to need $250,000 and shit, dude.
And I was like, what the fuck, dude?
I got so pissed, dude.
I don't even know what he's saying.
He's fucking cussing me out.
Was it Louis himself or just one of the guys that worked at that Sun Valley Caregivers?
It was the owner of Sun Valley Caregivers.
There was no Louis.
There was nobody named Louis.
They just named it after that liquor.
Cognac or whatever.
There's that dude now that calls himself Louis Hazarin.
Maybe.
Yeah, maybe that's the dude.
Yeah, maybe.
I don't know.
I just know him as the owner of Sun Valley Caregivers and shit.
That was the last day I ever went in there, dude.
Those motherfuckers told me I had to come back.
They were fucking pissed.
They were certain I took it.
I had it.
But I didn't.
It wasn't long before I did.
Yeah, they fucked up, dude.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's rising.
Hey, Bryn.
See me?
It's all.
Dude, if the lights were on me, I'd just be all sweaty.
Just sweating.
Sweating like a hossa.
High blood pressure or something.
I don't know.
I can't watch these lives anymore.
That's sex juice, dude.
I don't know what you're talking about.
It's fucking manteca.
Well, I'm going to start getting dinner.
So I guess we'll close it off.
This will be our first edition of opening up the OG story, the Kush story.
And there's a lot more stories to come from this dude.
But yeah, he's a legit dude.
So he's going to ask and make sure with whoever.
And yeah.
It's good seeing you guys.
There are a lot of perks to be had there, so check it out.
Need seeds? Check out riotseeds.com where you can get our seeds and our reversals array for making your own feminized seeds.
