Welcome to Breeder's Syndicate, where we explore the history of a clan-destined scene
through the eyes of the folks who lived it.
I'm Matthew, owner of Riot Seeds.
I'll occasionally be joined by my co-host NotSoDawg, breeder and grower from Mendocino.
Welcome to the Underground.
What's up, dude?
I exist.
You look like you're not dead yet.
I am definitely not dead.
Good deal.
I'm definitely not dead.
I'm in need of a haircut.
That's sexy shit.
So, what's up with the third party?
Waiting for him.
Waiting for him.
We're gonna be waiting for him for a few minutes.
I just talked to him.
He'll be on.
Fantastic.
Yeah.
So I was just telling everyone we're gonna be going over the forum era post-Overgrow,
so 2006 roughly, and on.
And I was explaining how there are a lot of forums still up that were around during that
time, like The Farm, ICMAG, Troll It Up, some of the others that came around that time.
But there are a lot that are not up.
And people that like to pretend that they were around back then often reference the
ones that are still up that they can go back and like reread and pretend like, hey, I was
there.
I know what was going on.
But they're missing like 90% of the conversations that were going on because those aren't even
accessible any longer.
One of the things I noticed about that era is that, you know, a lot of times we catch
people on stuff.
Because people go back to bullshit.
And they read, you know, threads and things like that to pick up years and tidbits and
information that like make their story sound better.
Yeah.
And they weren't there to know who was who or like who to take seriously or what was
misinformation even then.
Yeah.
You know, and so a lot of times it's a tell.
You know, it is a big tell.
It's a big tell.
But to someone that never read any of those forums, you can come out and confidently start
jabbing about a bunch of stuff.
Yeah.
And sound like you were there.
Yeah.
I'm not gonna say anybody's name, but someone made a post the other day that obviously was
not around on the forums and said, you know, X person got cloned from Y person got cloned
from Z person and it was just super off like the most off it could be.
I mean, that's learning for me.
We try not to name names when it's not.
But it was pretty funny.
The chain of custody.
Yeah, that was asserted.
You know, you just had you just had to laugh at a certain point.
But yeah, I will say even back then, like, you know, I don't know exactly how to describe
it.
But I would say that like, like Overgrow even had some of the best commentary, but also
some of the worst.
Like you kind of the forums really helped figuring out what you were doing.
If you already went in there with some connection and some ability to discern.
Yeah.
You know, Cannabis World was a little bit more like where the adults gathered.
Yeah.
Overgrow you could have like everyone from like some 17 year old kid shit posting you
even though we didn't use that term back then.
Yeah.
To like Camara and Sam Skunkman and PhDs and breeding talking shit in another in another
area.
Yeah.
So it really was like a cross section of weed in America.
My main thing would be like, I would compare that to like Grass City from my era.
Grass City and Roll It Up.
We always called it Troll It Up.
But those two were like what everybody would say like, that's where everybody had an account
on those pretty much because that's where everybody started during that era.
And then slowly you'd see people migrate.
But then those the ones that hung out in that area kind of never really seemed to go anywhere
as far as their knowledge or making any headway with anything really.
That's how I saw it.
Yeah.
I mean, and you know, it should be said to that like, you know, there was different different
forums had different.
I don't know different ethics.
Maybe is the best way to put it.
Yeah.
You know, some some were more lightly moderated and things got left up.
You know, obviously like hate speech and various other aspects was was eliminated.
You know, or but a lot of times, you know, unlike IG or whatever, you know, if you didn't
like the threads got left, they might get locked if arguments got too heated, but they
would typically be left.
Yeah.
Where in today's environment on IG a lot of times people just get rid of it.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
It's all it's all what do you call that?
Curated.
It's all curated as soon as it starts going off the rails or as soon as they start seeing
information they don't want out there.
Yeah, they'll just delete comments or they'll delete the whole thread or they'll turn off
comments.
Yeah, right away, you know, and then, you know, I see mag, you know, there was, you
know, there was an in crowd and out crowd.
Mm-hmm.
You know, definitely.
I was the out crowd.
I think I had a record for being the person most banned from every forum.
And it I think I mean, I even had my own forums back in the day that people rocked on, you
know, it got bad.
I mean, it was interesting in the sense that like in the beginning in overgrowing cannabis
world and stuff.
I was super excited and I got on there to share information with a bunch of people.
And then, you know, but I was always nervous about doing any kind like, you know, I lived
in Mendo or whatever.
So I didn't really need to like meet new weed people.
Yeah, but I liked learning what other people far away knew.
Yeah, but a lot of people used it in the DMS to trade it.
DMS to trade clones and do all this type of stuff.
I never really did that.
I was more like an in person kind of guy.
Yeah.
And then when obviously when Heaven Stairway got in trouble and they shut all that down.
Yeah.
I got scared.
So, you know, this era that we're going to talk about like 2006 on, it really is CSI
and Matt's era.
Yeah.
It really is where, you know, I might have been lurking a little bit and poking around
here and there.
And even some other friends of ours that aren't going to join like our buddy High and Lonesome.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
You know, there was some people that were extremely active in that era.
Sure.
And know a lot of the, you know, who is a jackass, who was kind, who was a problem back
then, you know, where stuff came from.
And one of the interesting things about weed is that it reinvents itself every five or
10 years.
Yeah.
So, you get all these new people coming in and people get to rebrand themselves.
Yeah.
Now it's happening every six months, it seems.
Yeah.
Well, it's modern.
Fast turnover.
Yeah.
Modern marketing.
I mentioned that I mentioned this before, but it was kind of like what the what the old
Deadheads told me about how Dead Tour used to be before the Grateful Dead had Touch of
Gray, a big hit.
Yeah.
It was small.
Everybody knew kind of got vetted in.
You know, things didn't change that much.
And then, you know, oh my God, big ups to Danimal.
Okay, so then, and then, and then there was a top day at a top 10 hit.
And literally hundreds of thousands of new people showed up.
Yeah.
And how do you assimilate them into your community that fast?
Yeah.
You can't really.
Yeah.
You know, it becomes difficult.
So a lot of times like old timers or whatever, they feel overwhelmed.
Yeah.
Because like the norms of their community and what they could expect, you know, and instead
of being like a respected elder, somebody is like, who the fuck is this guy?
Yeah.
Why do I have to listen to you?
Yeah.
You know, where before when it was smaller, like those people might have had respect.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's a much it did get very different.
And I want to say it wasn't quite at cookies where everything took a big swing, but it wasn't
much long after cookies came around that the forum, the whole idea of forums kind of
changed, but I think that also had to do with Instagram, which is also why cookies kind
of even got even more blown up.
I think social media.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The kind of the difference between the, I would say the forums were mostly writing with some
pictures where Instagram flipped at 180 degrees to being almost all pictures with a little
bit of writing.
Yeah.
So you see some of these old write ups that people have and their paragraphs and you know,
they're like a small essay.
Yeah.
Right.
Where people ask me stuff all the time on IG and it's really hard because it's like,
what are you going to write a novel in the comments?
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's kind of like you're trying to write something that's like this long.
Like what can I?
Yeah.
It's like a haiku.
Yes.
How can I get my thing across in like X amount of syllables or four sentences?
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's hard to get your thing across to you, especially if you're on Twitter.
Right.
And then, and then you end up, and then you end up leaving out a lot of nuance and detail
where on the forum era, people could like write three or four paragraphs each back and
forth.
And some like can't be, could write really, really just bad, really bad, unillegible stuff
for paragraphs and paragraphs.
I mean, when you write paragraphs, you really realize why we invented punctuation.
Yeah, for sure.
You know, why we invented paragraphs in the first place, spacing, periods, commas, all
the various aspects, it really helps.
Because, you know, one of the things that hurts you online is that nuance gets lost.
Yeah, it does.
Are you being sarcastic?
Yeah.
Are you being funny?
What's your body language?
You know, all those types of things.
You know, yeah, that was actually a good point.
You know, in the overgrow era, digital cameras, you know, didn't exist.
Yeah.
I mean, I was talking, I was actually talking about that in the, in the one that you missed,
because you were, you know, you were otherwise occupied where it was like, people documenting
their stuff really advanced a lot more when digital cameras came out.
Oh, yeah.
And then exponentially once phones had cameras.
Yeah, once phones had cameras, it was all bets off.
The era where you had to get your own stuff developed.
That's unsadly.
It's not.
Oh, yeah, I can only imagine.
It's not very documented.
I mean, I was at, I was at CSI's house, I don't know, half a year ago or something like
that.
We were looking through a couple of boxes of his Polaroids.
Right?
Yeah.
But they fade.
Yeah, that, that sucks.
They fade.
That sucks.
You know, and maybe if you would have kept them in some kind of like, perfectly sealed
environment with the right humidity or something like that, you know, but yeah, you're looking
at Polaroids from 95 or six or seven or whatever.
And a lot of them, the colors are bleeding into each other and it's hard to make it's
not.
It's not, you know, it's not shark.
Yeah.
You know, yeah, that sucks.
That sucks bad.
I would have never guessed that until he told me that.
Yeah, I mean, you know, he's got a couple of shoeboxes full.
Yeah.
And I have a bus in his chops to get them fucking scanned.
I was like, you got to get those scanned at least for history.
He's like, don't do any good.
I mean, I, you know, I had my, I had my, my, my first daughter in oh nine, you know, and
I think, and I can look back on my phone.
I think, you know, the first real camera on an iPhone came out in oh eight.
Oh, now, now I don't remember.
Yeah.
Late, late oh eight, you know, and, and that's kind of the, that was a revolution in itself.
Oh, I'm sure.
Cause then you can just pull it out of your pocket and be like, there's my weed plant.
Click.
It's always amazing that with all these cell phones, we don't really see many like real
documented UFO pics.
I know it's kind of off tangent, but I just thought about that.
Well, I will say as a, as a, you know, somebody who's pulled a lot of tarps in their day that,
you know, a lot of times when you pull tarp on you, you're doing light depth, you're,
you're pulling tarp at six or seven o'clock at night.
Right.
And then you go back out there after dark, which in June might be nine 30 or 10 o'clock
at night.
Right.
So pull the tarp off so everything can breathe because you only want to darken it for as
much as you need to.
Right.
Oh yeah.
And you don't want to trap in all that moisture and all that.
Right.
So you got to go out there and, you know, Mendo or whatever in the woods.
And sometimes I would see the most beautiful skies, the most beautiful moons, just epic.
And your phone could not show you what my eyes could see.
Oh yeah, for sure.
I would take, I would take, you know, pictures and you know, and it would just never, and
I'd go online and look, how do I take better night photos?
Yeah.
And it's just not a camera with like a nice lens and you know, the ability to like, it's
just not.
It's just meant to show dicks and tits.
That's all you're supposed to be taking pictures of, fellas, ladies.
You know, and, and so, you know, there's, there's an aspect to that where it's like,
I can bet like, if you can't see, like, nobody can imagine how beautiful this full moon is
tonight.
Yeah.
And you can't capture that well.
How are you going to capture like, I'm sure there's like, this is the, there's a weird
thing in the sky.
It's moving strange.
Yeah, I know.
Impossible.
You know, especially back in 08 or 09, how am I going to pull out my two or two and a
half megapixel camera?
Yeah.
On my phone.
Yeah.
I'm going to like capture it.
No.
No.
You know, it took a long time for phones to even begin to catch up to like what 35 millimeter
could do.
You're busting my skeptical comments, not so, you know, crushing my skepticism.
I fully believe that there are aliens.
I just disbelieve most people that tell them, try to tell me a bunch of facts about them.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's my guess.
I'm sure there are.
I just don't know if they've ever been near Earth.
You know, like I have, that's where my skepticism comes in.
When people start writing, getting like very long YouTubes about all kinds of specifics,
you know, I get weird.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, I'll say this, you know, and then Kalo and then he's officially fucking late.
Yeah.
But, you know, when we were talking about the early 2000s or whatever, I, you know,
I did that whole episode when you weren't here.
Yeah.
And I was hunting so hard for old stuff, then stuff from the 80s, stuff from the 70s, hell,
even stuff from some of the 90s.
Yeah.
And it was a royal bitch.
I bet.
And nobody cared about it.
And I, and I searched for years and years and years.
And, you know, like we have a pretty good network of friends.
Yeah.
You know, and it was really hard.
And now within the last five years, as ancient stuff has become popular, and I'm not, please
don't take this the wrong way if anybody's holding anything, but I've never seen so much
like 79 blueberry 72, you know, brotherhood of eternal love, Acapulco gold, you know,
74, Wahakan, you know, this, that, like all these 70s and 80s strain, all the famous strains
of your.
Yeah.
Boom.
Hey, it's not dark.
It's just blurry.
What did you do?
He's in that humble bog.
You smudge your camera on purpose?
He's in that humble fog.
You know, he blew a lot on the camera.
Salted.
But wait, the sun's going down.
So, you know, you mother fucker.
Good to see you, dude.
Thanks for showing up.
Right, right.
So yeah, we were just talking about the different, you know, what was kind of going around post
2006.
It was the end of the overgrow era, end of the cannabis world era.
And maybe, maybe you could talk about some of the things that you saw during those, those,
that integral period between the end of overgrow and the beginning of things like the farm.
What kind of, what kind of strains were people fucking with around then?
What was the hot shit?
Are you talking about like 06 on?
06 to like 06 to 08, somewhere in there.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I mean, I think that's when Chem Dog really started becoming popular.
Yeah.
Chem D came out.
I think, I honestly think that that's the year, you know, Mass G posted up on Icy Mag.
Although that thread is gone.
Oh, is that thread gone?
I did my research.
I think it's gone.
Is that the creation of Sour D1?
No, no, no.
That was the overgrow.
That was the overgrow.
Okay.
So yeah, that's well long gone unless somebody has archives.
Yeah, who would have that shit?
So do you remember like around overgrow, what kind of the strains,
what kind of strains were mostly popular around that time?
Like in the, in that end of overgrow era?
Amsterdam strains.
The Dutch shit.
Yeah.
How about Canadian?
And a lot of BC stuff.
Yeah, BC stuff.
It was kind of like a lot of the stuff that was at some of those Ron parties.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Right?
Where actually where Caleb and I first met, you know, it was a lot of White Widow and Blueberry.
And a lot of the work coming out of Switzerland was big then.
So like the Sweet Tooth, the Blockhead, the Louie, Genius.
Yeah.
And C-99 were around back then for sure.
Genius, C-99, you know, I forget is Genius, Apollo, but you know, the Apollo 11 and 13.
Hybrids of all that stuff.
And it was pre-reversals.
You guys hadn't really started your revolution yet.
So it was all males.
Well, we were borderline starting it.
Yeah, it was just kicking off.
I mean, Hybe was selling his EXC way back in like, I don't know what, 02?
Maybe even earlier.
Yeah.
On Cannabis World.
And I did my first, you know, real reversal in 06.
Intentional reversal?
Intentional reversal.
I did that one reversal where, you know, I took a bunch of pollen from that Urkel back in like 03, 04.
And yeah, that was 03, 04.
And pollinated a bunch of stuff on purpose.
Yeah.
But that was just that freak thing.
So yeah, it counts.
It kind of counts.
It counts.
It does count.
It was with intention.
Yeah.
I did have some friends that, I mean, we didn't use, we didn't know anything about any of the chems you could spray on plants.
But people used to try to torture their plants to get them to free, if you knew it could harm.
Sometimes you could put it into too small of a pot.
You could let it get dry.
You could beat it up a bit.
You could try to collect, see if it could throw some.
That was like our way of, you know, can you beat it up enough to get some pollen off it?
Remember Soma's Way?
You just flower them out for like 80 or 90 days and get a couple bananas.
Yeah.
You call it rotalization.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I don't know where he got that term from for it, but yeah, I remember.
Yeah.
Yeah, he's a special guy.
Actually, I did like, when his book came out or whatever, I do like the Soma beds.
I don't own that.
They were interesting.
They were interesting.
They're just deep indoor beds on wheels, you know?
Yeah.
It's basically what they were, you know, with some drainage in the bottom and some layering.
You know, maybe they have some rocks and they have some like, and then they have a layer
of ground cover or something, and then you put soil on top.
And they had the air tubes on them in all four corners where the air can get down to
the lower roots.
You would put like big pieces of PVC with holes drilled in and you would put those on
the side and those would go all the way in the corners to the bottom.
Yeah.
And that would connect to the gravel at the bottom so that you could bring air.
Yeah.
It wasn't the worst idea.
No.
I've done that with big trees.
And especially for, well, it's not so much you had to go trees, you know, I mean, you
know, look at a bunch of, you could actually grow a bed with, you know, homie style with
25 or 30 plants if you wanted.
Yeah.
Right, right, right.
You know, and then you didn't have to worry about individual ones dying.
Right, right.
Because you just watered the bed and everything stays alive.
Oh, yeah.
I used to use those no drain beds way back in 2000 or so.
No drain beds?
Just shallow, like 6 inch deep beds, you know.
How'd that work out?
I did pretty good.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Definitely some interesting stuff.
That was back in my not so organic days.
The not so organic?
Not so organic.
Not so organic.
I mean, I used to know, this used to be pretty funny where I used to know a lot of guys in
Mendo that were organic like April through August.
And then come August, they're like not or September, they're not quite seeing their
buds get as big as they want.
And then they figure like, well, what's one big tub of pink powder going to really do
to my organic?
It's basically organic.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Just a couple doses of this 0-50-30.
It's going to get me where I need to be.
And it's going to make it happy.
And I've been organic for five months already, you know, so it'll all flush out at the end
and it's definitely still organic.
Yeah, that stuff was tough.
Yeah.
Bud Blaster.
Three cheers for Gromor.
Yeah.
Bud Blaster was the Canadian Hetty version.
Yeah.
Was it?
Yeah, it was Canadian.
It was one of those, you know, powdered whatever.
It was all the same.
There was a bunch of people that came out with 0-50-30 and tried to make it seem like
their 0-50-30 was special.
Right, monosodium.
The one thing I'll say about the Bud Blaster is that they had their own special grinder.
So their powder was super fine and it actually dissolved.
Some of the cheap stuff, you get there in like a thousand gallon tank or whatever and
you're up on a ladder and you're dumping stuff like that in there.
And then you get some soft balls at the bottom that you're like wondering how to hit with
a stick to break up.
Because it wouldn't actually dissolve.
But that's off topic.
I suppose we should probably ratchet back around.
So we got to convince Caleb and Matt to talk because this is really their era.
This is 06, 07, 08, 09.
This is not my online presence.
Right.
So the various characters, the various things that were going on, the stuff that was happening.
This is when these two, CSI used to be known as White Trash Redneck.
I mean, Inspecta.
Inspecta, indeed.
And all those aliases.
All the aliases.
But yeah, but that's where, I mean, Archive was Docta or The Docta.
It's where a lot of the oldest nicknames and monikers.
People still kind of reference each other like by some of those first names.
I don't know nobody's real name.
You didn't need to.
Ain't no purpose in it.
Unlike IG, a lot of these people you never saw.
My chick always asked me, what's his name?
I'm like, I don't fucking know.
Why the fuck would I ask him that?
That's just weird.
She thinks I'm a freak for not knowing anybody's first names after all these years.
I'm like, I don't fucking know.
Am I going to do his taxes for him?
What the fuck do I need to know that for?
It was very similar to that on Dead Tour and stuff like that.
Because everybody had a nickname.
Everybody had a nickname.
Maybe you guys could talk about who were some of the big,
I don't want to say the word influencer maybe,
but who are some of the people that were sort of driving the conversations?
Who were you excited to hear posting on stuff?
And then maybe just how hard it was to get information back then.
Because a lot of these forums, you guys were talking about the Chem Dog.
There was an aspect where the reason why somebody like Skunk VA has his name
or Chem Dog 101 or any of these things is because
at some forum or another on ICMAG or whatever,
it was the first time these things started getting argued about.
And debated by people outside.
And a lot of times what happens too is that these things become references
because then you've got this guy comes out and says this thing on ICMAG at this year.
And then three years later on whatever on Roll It Up, let's say,
he's saying this.
And now on IG, he said this and this.
And they always want to be like, this is the most current story.
This is what you should believe.
Yeah.
And in some cases, those forums don't exist anymore.
And they're very fortunate that they don't.
And one of the ways that CSI got his reputation as Inspecta
is he was really good at using your own words against you.
But I just mean in the sense of someone would like confidently say this, this, this, this, and this.
And then he would be like, well, why did you write in your own words?
That bastard.
How do you make these two things come together?
I've got a bunch of Swerve quotes I can share.
And that's a lot of things.
Most people probably don't even know who Swerve is.
But there's been a bunch of people that come, that flash in the pans, that come and go.
They come up, they have their moment, they spew a bunch of shit,
they make a bunch of money.
All of a sudden, their stories start to implode.
And in some cases, they rebrand themselves and sell it again to the new batch.
Who I looked up to is going to be a lot different than maybe who Caleb looked up to.
Because when I first started coming in, it was way different than when Caleb started coming in.
So who were you looking up to during those years?
Who do you think was influencing really well that had some respect during those years?
I mean, I liked, just for information alone, I liked Joe Brand.
I liked Chemdog, Mass G, Skunk VA.
And then on the OG side of things, I always liked Big Ricky.
He was Old Family Red back then.
Actually, a lot of people don't even know, but I named my Old Family Purple,
my first TK hybrid, kind of after his old handle, Old Family Red.
Oh, I didn't even know that.
That's cool.
You made the connection.
Yeah, I gave him a lot of credit.
You know, Chrome, those were the years Chrome was starting out with the white.
He actually was growing some of my hybrids.
And then he introduced the white when he was growing them.
So that's when that started.
I think I was mostly into Bubba's, OG's, and Chemdog's back then.
What were your main interests, though?
So when I popped in, you know, like Shanti Baba was still pretty big
and still had a good name.
A lot of the stuff I was looking at when I came in was Dutch stuff.
I really didn't focus a lot on Americans at the time because I just didn't,
I wasn't hip to it.
You know, I hadn't, right when I came in, I wasn't hip to the fact that
all those dudes were white labeling and most of the Americans were making
their seeds or Spanish, or actually back then, I don't even know who was
making their motherfucking seeds, you know?
Right.
But yeah, I mean, it was very different.
I mean, Greenhouse hadn't been totally trashed.
It was still kind of under the radar for new people at the time that they
were doing anything, you know, untoward.
DNA was massive during those years.
They were why I started doing six seeds a pack because their shit was six
seeds a pack and they were the ones selling the most.
So I was like, okay, I guess that's what you do.
You know what I mean?
Right.
Yeah, and then Subcool, of course, had just started fucking taking off.
And I was fortunate that I met Sonny Chiba very early on.
So I learned very quickly, oh, maybe that guy isn't someone I should be
looking at for breeding tips, you know?
Right, right.
It took me a while, but I got it.
But yeah, it was a much different take.
It's interesting then because that's kind of when everybody first came out
of the shadows.
Yeah.
And you can walk out of the shadows with any stories you wanted about
yourself or the strains or whatever else.
And a lot of times you were the only person, you know, from Sam's
Gunkman on.
Yeah.
You were the only person telling the story about those strengths.
Right, right.
I mean, do you remember, huh?
The audience was so small.
Finding people who are actually there, you know, was very difficult.
Yeah, it was a lot smaller than now.
I just know you think people that came later can grasp how small the
community was.
And how slow information was.
Now it's pretty rapid fire.
Right.
And a lot of people connect all the time.
Oh, yeah, somebody said Crunch Bubble, you know?
That guy, I mean, that guy used to move massive amounts of, what was it,
Blue Dot through the third floor in Oakland, you know?
He had all those warehouses of 600 watt HPSs on hydro tables,
bumping out a bunch of stuff for third floor.
But it was, you know, what's funny about that guy is that some of those
pictures were like some of the first warehouse scenes that people were
willing to like throw up on the internet.
Yeah.
Most people were growing in closets or bedrooms or greenhouses or in the
woods or wherever.
And all of a sudden you see a 40 lighter, right?
And for a lot of people, that was the first time.
Right.
It might look rudimentary now.
Yeah, now.
But even just then in 05 or 06 or something like that, you know,
finding people.
And I think too that like what most people don't understand maybe is that a
lot of the breeders like that got famous later,
like a couple people on the show or whatever,
like almost all the breeders were European or American or Canadian.
Yeah.
Right.
And the people that were working breeding in America were generally doing it
through friendship circles.
There was a lot of trading via DM amongst friends and amongst contemporaries.
It wasn't like on, you know, at least from what I remember,
it wasn't like, oh, I've got a big drop coming next Friday.
Here's the 15.
Here's the names I made up for them.
Here's the hybrids.
Here's where you can get them.
Here's how we're going to sell them all.
It was like, you know,
you'd trade seeds when you saw people or people were trading,
selling them via DM or something like that.
Like, but.
It was different.
I remember as far as Americans went,
there was not a lot of Americans doing direct sales on websites.
You would never really see that.
Like it was all done, you know,
DMs or like on weird little auction sites that were floating around.
But other than that,
there wasn't a really good way to market yourself as an American breeder
without mostly giving seeds away to people.
I mean, did you have that experience, CSI?
I didn't get involved in any of, I wanted to back in the 06, 08 era.
I looked into it, but, you know,
I was still way, way too paranoid to do any of that stuff.
I should have done it, you know, like, you know, DNA and sub cool and hell,
even swerve, you know, you know, I mean, all those guys, you know,
made huge names because there wasn't competition.
Yeah.
There was no competition.
You didn't really have to have a whole lot of talent to be very successful.
Someone just said, Mr. Soul handled all of SSSC in the 80s.
Well, you know, I mean, what's interesting about that is that, you know,
there's been a lot, there's been a lot of talk about American SSSC, right.
And, you know, Matt and myself got to interview the owner who was very cool.
And, you know, all that kind of stuff got put to rest.
Yeah. Hard, hard.
There wasn't any American help.
No room for maneuver.
But it goes to show how, you know, in our world,
you can kind of step out of the shadows and be like, oh, I mean,
there was a lot of people that, you know,
they came out of the shadows and they were the first time that people were
like, you know, oh, I'm, this is my cut.
Yeah.
And then it turns out that they just got the cut early.
Yeah.
But they got a few years of like, oh, if you want to use my cut,
you got to give me 50% of the proceeds of the seeds,
or you got to pay me or you got to this, or you got to that.
It's my work. It's my, my, my, my.
And then it comes out later that they just got it from these other people
early, but they were the first one to go public.
Right.
And a lot of times what happened is,
is that the first person to go public, you know, got credit.
Yeah.
You know, they got credit and their story was the story for a minute.
And sometimes other people would get upset and get online and start,
you know, I mean, I actually think that's kind of what got, you know,
you were talking about Cam, that's kind of what got Cam online was,
you know, Skunk VA got online a bit, you know,
and started talking about different things.
And then people were like, oh, my weed's famous.
I should talk about it.
Right.
And then that got, and then that got,
that got Joe brand and P bud and other people that hadn't really met,
met up or like even linked or even realized what was going on after 15 years
to connect.
Right.
Because the stories.
707 seed bank, a Shabba.
He's the one who, you know,
got a Skunk VA onto overgrow and icy mag to actually post about that
stuff. Otherwise I think there'd be a completely different chem dog history.
Oh yeah.
If he hadn't done that, you know,
do we remember what the very,
very first claim of the chem dog seats,
not necessarily the first one people remember,
but the very first claims of Kim dog,
who is the first one to claim that string?
Was it even Greg or were there other people popping up as it was getting
popular going? That's mine.
I'm bread that shit.
I don't remember anybody claiming it.
Lots of people claiming they had the 91 or,
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Sure.
It was just like, well,
I don't know how all these different cuts could be the right one.
Oh, you know, because it's purple.
That's how, you know, when it perks,
I saw a few Kim dog cats and they, they,
some of them look like a mass super skunk Kim dogs.
Yeah.
But that,
that just basically means somebody bought some weed that was,
was called Kim dog and it had some seeds in it and whatever had pollen
in it, that Kim dog, you know,
Kim dog is not a bad hermaphrodite just by itself.
I mean, not so much that, you know,
and so usually if you find seeds in your Kim dog, you know,
it's been pollinated by something else.
Yeah.
Well, there was, there was also a thing too, that was,
that was really confusing I think.
And this isn't anything against Greg or Kim dog, but you know, it's,
it's like for people that want specific lineages,
he was pretty famous for you. When you buy weed,
you're buying Kim dog weed from Kim dog.
It didn't really matter exactly what it was. It was weed from Kim dog.
And so I think that created confusion too, because everyone was like, Oh,
it's this one specific thing, you know?
But it really was Kim dog.
Yeah. Just branding. I mean, back then branding was branding, you know,
it was, it was, it was early. It was an early form of branding.
Yeah, for sure. You know, and people weren't,
and a lot of these guys were young and nobody knew,
especially then when things first started getting famous,
I don't think anybody knew that some of these strains were going to be so
lastingly famous.
So a lot of times they wrote down various stories or this or that,
and they didn't really expect it to get,
become part of Canon or become part of the fabric of the tail.
And then they have to look back and defend it.
You know? And you know, it's hard for people sometimes to say, you know,
my memory was a little, that's what I remembered at the time, you know,
after more, after more information came out and I talked to more friends,
I've kind of revised a little bit because other people had,
it's hard for people to say that a lot of times people would dig in their
heels. Yeah.
And then you've got two or three or four versions of the story and you're
trying to figure out which one works, which one is the most believable.
Right. Right. You know,
what's your favorite wildest story from the forum errors that you knew?
I mean, you, that,
that you knew was kind of like that's too fucking stupid to even be possible.
Do you have any that stick out where you're like,
that was a bold fucking claim and really wonky.
What comes to mind when I say that?
Okay. So I hate to keep bringing up my boy Swerve.
It doesn't really have a whole lot to do with him,
but the guy he got pretty much most all of his early OG cuts from in like
06, 07. This guy
had an account on IC mag and then he made up another account.
And I think this was an 07 and he made up another account pretending to be
his own mentor, you know, with all the same spelling errors,
all the same, you know, type styles, all that.
And he made a whole thread on it and acted like, you know,
he was the original creator of the OG Kush, blah, blah, blah.
And his boy right here, his little student, you know, he's,
he's best student I ever had.
And Swerve our boy and we hooked him up.
We laced him with all those, those cuts we've held since the eighties.
Oh, eighties OG. Yeah.
There's still that story on, on a icy mat. It's still on, you know,
and I'm,
I'm up in there with a bunch of other clowns just laughing away,
you know, but that, that one right there was,
it was pretty much the tops for, for me back in those days.
I got one for you. I got one for you.
Little old lady with Asian fantasy.
Oh, that was a really good one too. I liked that.
That was a good one. Yeah. Yeah. That one was, was a,
there was a string called Asian fantasy made famous. I think,
I think it's fair to say about the Canada Bible,
Jason King pretty much made that strain very much so. Yeah.
Known. It wasn't a well-known strain. I don't think, was it?
No, no, no.
And you know, he,
he talked about the rarity and how this guy never lets it out.
Blah, blah, blah. Few years later, a person that we,
we know who it was, but I don't think he'll ever admit it. Right.
Went on and tried to say that she was the,
the wife of the man who held Asian fantasy and he has died and she wants to
get those genetics out there, you know, and ended up,
I think it was pretty sure it was NYC kid kind of big upping himself,
trying to give himself some provenance on a cut he never had access to.
Well, we don't, honestly, we don't know that part of it because
who have you or anybody ever seen this Asian fantasy,
keyword fantasy outside of the Canada Bible and NYC kid and his crew?
No.
I mean, it's kind of a fantasy.
Yeah. And in fact, African black magic.
I mean, there's some, there's some pictures of it or whatever, but I mean,
Jason King even talked about how homie wouldn't give it out to anyone.
And, you know, was a, was a massive hoarder of it, you know?
And so there's an aspect to it there too, where it's like people,
people can hoard something so much that it doesn't become famous. Yeah.
Right. You know, because nobody ever sees it. Like before,
before this forum time that you were talking about, there was probably like,
you know, four or five people or something in California that had the chem 91.
Oh yeah. And someone just said, I have Asian fantasy S ones from T H gobs.
So he's still doing it. Go NYC kid. You go.
But yeah, I mean, it was like one of those things where like, if, you know,
if, if OG Kush, if some of the,
if some of these famous things don't slip out and people don't start cropping
them, you know, there was an aspect where it was like for a long time,
there was only four or five garages pumping chem 91. Yeah.
Yeah. Well like every, you know, so how much weed is that? Not very much.
It doesn't really give you very much opportunity to try it.
It doesn't really get, give you an opportunity for like a fad to, you know,
like if OG hadn't snuck out,
if all those guys hadn't been money hungry down there in LA and it,
and it snuck out, it probably wouldn't have had that kind of impact. Yeah.
Because it has to be there. You have to be able to get that. Even,
even if you have to pay a lot for it, you do have to be able to access it.
Right. So Asian fantasy is one of those things where like it, you know,
it never got out. And then,
so as a result of that, it allowed scammers to be like, this is it. Right.
And how could you tell the difference? Hey, you know, you,
you still, you still buddies with the, with old Jason, Mr. King.
I haven't spoken to him in a minute, but we're cool. Yeah. He lives on Maui.
I know. I wonder if you can ask him kind of maybe some of that.
Cause I talked to him before I like met you, met you. Yeah. You know, he,
he, he affirmed that, you know, all my information was right.
And then he was like, where'd you, where'd you find all this stuff out?
You know, I mean, he might know some, some background details that, you know,
definitely didn't make it into the book about who,
I've been actually thinking about reaching out and talking to him because one
of the things that's interesting is that he probably has a shit ton of
pictures of weed from myself and my,
and some friends and then people that I don't know, obviously too, but,
that didn't make it in the book. Yeah. Because, you know,
you might take, you know, dozens or hundreds of pictures or something,
and then two make it. Yeah. You pick a couple, you know,
and, and all that, but he, you know, and I think,
I think the Asian fantasy that he was talking about was in Hawaii.
I want to say, I remember, and I could be totally wrong.
So maybe I shouldn't say it, but I think,
I think Bodhi knows the Asian fantasy person, maybe.
I don't know. I don't know.
I mean, to me, it's one of the, it's,
it's one of those like legendary strains, you know,
that like just never, I mean, you know, there's,
I'll mention another one. Any of you guys have any, any,
experience with Elvis?
Yes. Yes, but I don't know if it was, I don't know how real it was.
It was just like a, it was a weird experience.
You know, it was really, it was really crazy.
I don't know how real it was.
It was just a cut called Elvis.
Because there's some really famous stuff out there
that just, it was never in my crew,
never in like the extended circles of crews.
And you hear about him for a long time
and it got famous in various aspects,
but it's just like, you know.
I also thought I had Albert Walker too though.
So there is that, you know, like who knows, who knows.
Never got it from a good source that could say,
yes, this is where I got it.
None of that shit.
Last one I had, I passed off to Skunk Master Flex
and I don't think he backed it up.
And your Albert Walker was the orangey one, right?
Yep, Dago Walker.
Yeah, good old Dago.
Yep.
Did you ever see the mothership come through?
I can't remember if you said you did.
Uh-huh, yeah.
So I told this story before,
but like it got mailed to one of our spots.
Uh-huh.
So Jason King's, I don't think it's shade to say this,
but his girlfriend at the time
was this chick named Rebecca.
Yeah.
And she was from Asheville area of North Carolina.
And so she, you know,
he used to rave about that cut all the time.
And so she finally got some of her friends
to send it to us.
Yeah.
Right?
And dude, it was like,
our buddy High and Lonesome has a terrible story,
but it was kind of like that in the sense
where I was expecting to get this tiny little box
with some clones.
And we got this box that was like, you know,
this big by two feet tall or whatever.
And it was two mothership plants in one gallon pots
with stakes and each one was about 18 inches tall.
In 03 or something like that.
And it was like, so all those pictures
in the Canada Bible that you see of mothership,
those all came from those two moms that got mailed to us.
Yeah.
And then we mom those out and you know,
they got grown at Eddie Leps
and they got grown at various friends' houses
and stuff like that.
So I actually had the mothership
for four or five years, I think.
And it wasn't, I think it was a super unique plant.
It wasn't one of them.
It didn't have the nicest flavor.
I didn't really like the flavor that much,
but it had a pretty cool high.
And it did this weird thing where it would fall half over,
but then hold itself up.
So like, you know how most branches, if they flop, they flop.
It would like flop, but then it would like raise itself up
and it would grow sideways through your garden.
Almost kind of a little like train wreck.
It would get, it would catch itself.
And just like, and it had like these,
it was a really odd sativa.
It had thin leaves and it was big branchy thing.
But, you know, I mean, I honestly like compared
to all the other shit we've been talking about,
like Bubba's and Kem's and, you know, Super Scum.
It was a little midsy, you know, in all reality.
But it was one of those things that probably like
was genetically very different than everything else.
So I like, you know, we like those weird things.
Real quick, to touch back on Elvis,
since you were on THC Farmers stuff for a long time,
you were a rat killer?
Or at least attentive to it.
I was on the outskirts of the Devil's Harvest crew
back in those days too.
And there was some of those guys,
that one circulated through that crew a good bit.
And it started, I think, E-Rock from maybe like,
I don't know if I should say a state,
it's a long time over.
You know, I think he circulated Elvis
for a while through there.
I wouldn't be surprised if a doctor maybe had grown it.
He was real good buddies with a lot of those cats.
And I mean, the whole time I was online,
I only traded cuts through the mail, maybe.
I only received cuts through the mail twice, I think.
I got like 40, 50 plus packages of cuts,
but I only received twice.
I did all my other business just in person,
up and down the West Coast.
So, yep.
I'm very much, I'm in person.
Do you remember Miss Elvis from the farm?
I wasn't very active on the farm at all.
Very, very little.
It was a person who showed,
like they were the main person showing the Elvis cut.
Back then there was something called
the Pink Cadillac cut, and then there was the Elvis cut.
That's the only person I ever got it from,
but I never, they disappeared,
not even a month after giving it to me,
but they were the ones that were always
documenting it on the farm.
But I never knew if that was,
if it's just someone that bullshit
and made their way through,
because they disappeared so fast
after me popping it and getting it from them.
Was it super incensey?
No, it was exactly like what they talk about,
like a vinyl smell.
Just artificial vinyl.
Yeah, not incensey at all.
One of the things that's kind of interesting
about that era too, is it's kind of like the last era
before the clone name dominance thing started happening,
where everyone's growing OG, or everyone's growing sour,
or everyone's growing all that kind of stuff.
So there was a lot of these odd strains,
not odd in the sense that there's anything wrong with them,
just odd, random strains that were easily sold.
And so people liked them and they got traded.
People weren't looking necessarily for like,
oh, I need to get this specific cut
because I'm gonna be able to move it
and it's gonna go for X price.
They were more interested in like the legend
or the history or whatever of said cut
or the person behind it.
And you could get on there and start talking about your cut
and all of a sudden drum up a bunch of interest.
And especially like if we wanted to go back,
when we were talking about how small it was,
I mean, think about how revolutionary,
just some of Matt's favorite, some of Blueberry's stuff,
and how it looked.
There wasn't that much competition.
There wasn't that much stuff outside of Europe
or Shanti or Sensi or Simon from Sirius
or some of that stuff.
There wasn't that many American breeders.
So the few people that were doing it,
like Mr. Soul or DJ Short or whoever
that were willing to show their work,
I think it kind of got like outsized impact.
Like Cindy 99 probably got way more famous
than it should have.
It was super financially.
Just to be perfectly honest,
I don't think in today it would have
the same lasting impact.
No, not today, no.
It wouldn't have been able to break through,
but it was like-
So I do think because it is like
when you try to think of an outdoor plant
that's fast enough and still considered sativa
to most people,
I think that it would be very hard to find a replacement
for C99 that's that fast with those type of high qualities.
And I think that also had a major effect
because it's a perfect outdoor plant for blasting fast,
you know, and it could be grown indoors.
I just mean it got like all his work got real,
but there wasn't that much competition.
So there was a lot of time to talk about,
you know, like not only Cindy 99,
but like the genius or the Apollo or the this
or the that or whatever,
or like, you know, everybody got plenty of time
to debate the four or five things that DJ released.
Yeah.
Because there just wasn't that,
there wasn't that many different things.
You know, there wasn't that many.
Now there's thousands of breeders.
And so standing out is very hard.
And then it was like, you know,
what was there like, you know,
a dozen big people doing stuff?
Yeah.
It was a lot easier for people to fucking
keep other people down to like the ones at the top,
since there wasn't a lot of competition
and they held a lot of sway,
they could really cut fuckers throats real fast.
And it happened a lot too.
And it was a lot easier to do that.
You know?
I would have probably got cut then
if I had even tried to start back then.
Dude, like I said, I was banned off every forum
and it got to the point where I was like,
fuck this, I'm gonna start my own forum.
Like Mr. Nice, I never got banned from.
I got asked to leave after a picture contest
because the Rightberry pictures beat out one of Mr. Nice's
and he thought that was kind of fucked of me to put it in.
But yeah, all the rest of them, it was really hard
because a lot of the ones,
a lot of people that were running those forums
also had a seed company.
Right.
And most of those seed banks and seed companies
would eventually start fucking people.
And if you were one of those people to speak up,
you're done, you know?
They don't want you around.
Yeah, I mean, I see Mag definitely had
some of that aspect to it too.
Yeah.
There was the in crowd and the out crowd, you know?
For sure, as far as that goes.
I'm just surprised that forum is still alive
after everything that went on with it.
Yeah.
See people, somebody talked about that,
people talk about 89 Super Skunk.
There was no 89 Super Skunk.
One of the things that annoys the hell out of me,
honestly, and this isn't to call out
whoever has 89 Super Skunk, but just in general,
is like, they'll take the first year
that something was ever released or named
and be like, I have that weed from a year or two before then.
Yeah, that's a big problem.
Like, so the first time Super Skunk ever got used
was in the 1990 seed bank catalog.
Yeah.
That's when it had a picture, that's when it had a name,
that's when Neville released it, you know?
And so people were like, oh, I've got the 89 Super Skunk.
Well, how?
You know, and then they're like, oh, you know,
then they gotta come up with like, well, you know,
it was all that pre-release special shit.
Cause my uncle was buddies with Homie
who gave it down on special kickdown.
So they'll be like, you know,
I got that 93 Centsy star.
I actually have pictures of that 1989 Super Skunk
and they look awful cookie-ish.
It's pretty pretty.
But you know, it happens all the time.
And then you see a lot of these old cuts right now,
the years keep getting earlier and earlier.
Yeah.
You know, I mean, one thing, and this isn't, you know,
this isn't to, you know, obviously Bodies use this
or whatever else, right?
But there is no G13 hash plant in the 88 catalogs.
No, no.
It came out in the 89 catalog for the first year, 89 and 90.
You know?
But 88 is much better.
It sounds nice, you know,
and I'm not trying to throw any shade on it
or anything like that.
There's plenty of people that have found nice weed
and, you know, Bodie made a bunch of hybrids with it
and it came from Ndn guy, I think, right?
Yeah.
Originally or whatever, you know, he reproduced it,
but it's like, it got released in 89.
Yeah.
But everyone calls it the great, you know, the 88.
Right.
Close enough.
You know, some of that first piff,
some of that first stuff they talk about,
they'll call it the great 88.
Yeah.
That shit got released in 89.
So there's a bunch of stuff out there
where people will be like,
this cut is from a year or two
before this line ever got released.
Here's a quick question though.
I mean, I have zero experience in this
as I was living in my, you know, hole in Humboldt,
but you were there, so,
or maybe you were there years later.
What was the possibility of them doing releases
of their seeds at the Canvas Cups?
So that is true.
It is possible.
Like for instance, the first Canvas Cup I went to
was the Jack Herrera Cup.
And the whole thing was themed on him, right?
Right.
And it was all about like,
it was the whole, like all the festivities
were all about the emperor wears no clothes.
And they released Jack Herrera seeds,
you know, from in 95.
94, yeah, 95.
They released them, but it was, you know,
it was late November, right?
But it wasn't in the catalog till the following year.
Right?
So it was like literally, it was literally the first time,
for instance, Jack was dropped,
was at the Canvas Cup in late November.
So I suppose you could have gotten it,
Jack Herrera at least,
six weeks before the year turned.
Right, right.
You know?
I mean, for example, Salmon Creek Big Bud,
you know, homeboy from Salmon Creek,
you know, he bought those seeds at the Cup,
the year it won the Cup,
and then smuggled 50 of those seeds home
in his little belt, you know, hideaway belt thing.
And that's, you know, his selection from those,
Sensi Big Bud seeds or whatever,
is what made Salmon Creek Big Bud.
Mm-hmm.
I mean, that's definitely possible.
A lot of times, a lot of new seed releases
would get dumped in late November then,
because it was like an industry gathering, right?
Right.
And there was tons of,
and honestly, there was tons of custies there.
I ended up hating going to Amsterdam for the year,
going to Amsterdam for the Cannabis Cup.
I went three times and then never again,
mostly because it sucked.
And the reason it sucked was that
Amsterdam is pretty far North.
And so it's cold as shit in late November there, right?
So you can go in summer and it's nice and it's beautiful
and you're on a bicycle and you're cruising around all stone
or you can go when it's sleeting and 29 degrees.
Mm-hmm.
And that's not as nice, you know?
And then all the best weed would get saved
for celebrities that were coming in and a who's who.
So there was worse weed to get
because it was all getting saved for Snoop Dogg
or Sam Skunkman's friends
or whoever the High Times crew or whatnot.
And then on top of that,
you could buy tickets to go to the Cannabis Cup
out of High Times, right?
So you go to Europe on vacation
and the coffee shops are full with all these dudes
from Jersey and New York.
Yeah.
Screaming about wanting to get the best bud in the world.
So it's like you fly 12 hours away from your house
and you're surrounded by a bunch of obnoxious East coasters
and there's not as good weed and it's crowded
and it's cold and it's raining or it's snowing.
And it's like, I much preferred going there in summer.
Mm-hmm.
Just because it was nice and chill.
But it was like an event.
It was an event then.
And really like the story goes,
Neville didn't even wanna release Jack Herrera that year.
He didn't think it was done,
but they wanted something new and hot
that they could call Jack Herrera.
Mm-hmm.
And isn't the story of fucking Cindy 99
that fucking dude bought Jack Herrera in a coffee shop
and found seeds in it?
Yep.
And then took him home
and started his whole cubing fucking princess,
whatever thing that he did?
I don't think Rick did anything like that.
I'm just saying, that's the story.
He found bag seed in buds that he bought at a coffee shop.
Yeah.
Yep, yep.
Mm-hmm.
So it was C99 and Genius
are both Jack Herrera at best hybrids.
Yeah, and really like,
and I think back then that was even earlier,
like we weren't using the improper term back cross yet,
or BX.
They were talking about fucking, wasn't it cubing?
Yeah.
Yeah.
It was cubing.
You were cubing it.
You were like fucking.
And they had all those like long winded posts
on fucking the forums about what percentage
and how much it was increasing with every one you did
and laying it all out, you know?
Yeah.
There was some really bad breeder tech being shared
that seemed cutting edge at the time.
Mm-hmm.
People still repeat that fucking shit like a mantra.
Oh, you're gonna back cross it four times
and you're gonna, that's as good as an S1.
That's a clone, man.
And I saw somebody talking about,
I like the Super Silver Haze better than the Jack Herrera.
The whole reason Super Silver Haze exists
is because Neville didn't feel like the Jack Herrera project
was ready for prime time.
He just released it due to, you know,
Alan and Ben Dronkers from Sensi were businessmen.
And so when he left, he kept working on it.
And then a couple of years later,
I think in 97 or something,
they released Mango and Neville and Super Silver Haze
because he felt like, you know,
they'd actually gotten somewhere.
Right, right, right.
But they still did a couple.
And I actually think that was the last big release
that Neville ever did, right?
But I mean, I smoked that Super Silver Haze cut
because two, I went in 90,
I was basically like every other year,
like I went 97 and 99 too to the cups.
And those last two cups,
that Super Silver Haze was all over the place.
Cause that was like the first and third year at one.
It was like the hot shit over there.
Right, right.
It really was.
It was the hot shit.
I mean, it was super,
there was a Fino of it that went like 14 weeks.
Will the community let Rez back into play?
Rez is doing his own thing, you know?
What most people don't know about Rez
and a couple of buddies reminded me of not that long ago
was like, before all the bullshit
with the law enforcement and all that,
he was a dick online anyway.
Right, big time.
He was a big time troll, jerk,
generally a pain in the ass to get along with,
not a pleasant homie.
Yeah.
Despite any of the rest of the bull,
whatever you wanna believe about,
you know, all the mess that happened
legally or whatever.
He was an early troll.
He was a jackass.
He had a huge ego.
He still does.
He had a decent level of intelligence,
which would have been, I think, much more appreciated
if he hadn't had so much ego with it.
Yeah, a little more humility.
You know, I mean, not, you know,
a bunch of ego and a bunch of rudeness.
You know, there was some rude people
you could put up with a little bit better,
but they were like borderline geniuses.
Right, right, right.
You know, like Tom Hill could be a real dick
if you asked a dumb question.
I wouldn't know anything about ass being rude.
That's, I wouldn't put up with it.
You know, or Sam Skunkman, he could be a dick too,
because, you know, you get tired of,
I've told the same story 5 billion times.
Right, right.
And you're gonna question me?
You're 23, shut the fuck up.
You're a cocksucker, you know?
Eat my dick, you know, basically.
You know?
Kinda rude.
Kinda rude, you know?
But it's hard, it's hard to have patience.
You know, and let's face it, right?
A lot of us are weirdos.
A lot of us don't have the greatest interpersonal skills
to begin with.
You know?
Speak for yourself.
Yeah, it really is.
I mean, speaking for me, I probably have a little bit more
than your average grower, just a bit.
Yeah.
You know?
But a lot of them, it's like, you know,
we're kind of harsh edges, people that live in the hills,
don't talk to people, hang out with plants,
and they're really good with plants,
and they're not so good with social interaction.
Right, right.
So you put those people on the forums,
and you put those people, like, you know,
on IG or whatever, and it's like,
it's not the easiest thing.
I did have an adjustment period that,
I will admit, I had an adjustment period of where
I may have been a little meaner in responses
and talking to people, a little snappy,
maybe a little bit of ego.
You know, it happens.
But some of us grow into beautiful,
smiling faces like this.
Well, that's awesome.
I'm also still banned from Breed Bay
for picking on sub cool.
It's also, the way I look at it is like, you know,
I mean, everybody has the natural inclination sometimes,
but it's like, are you trying to get your point across?
Or are you trying to fucking argue on the internet?
Right.
Oh, here's this dude who says his dad created Dog Bud.
I remember that guy.
He was trying to dox me.
I think I'm gonna balk him.
Okay, there you go.
I mean, the thing about,
the one thing we'll say about Dog Bud,
and then we'll move on, is that Joe Brand and Pee Bud
were buying and selling weed on Dead Tour all the time
for cash to go see Dead shows, right?
And this one weekend, they sold some weed,
and then they mailed Greg some more weed,
and then 15 years went by
before they even heard anything cool came out of it.
Right, they literally,
they never saw Chem 91 or anything like that until 06,
until the reunion, when the forums got people back together,
they had no idea.
They were on Dead Tour, right?
They met, you know, these guys,
Greg was a teenager from the East Coast,
and they sold him some weed in Indiana, right?
Which was just one stop on Summer Tour.
And you're buying pounds,
and you're selling eighths and quarters,
and halves and ounces, and it ran out,
and you buy some other pounds,
and you just keep doing that,
and you did that for a while,
and one of these sales turned into something.
And now you wanna, hey, 15 years ago,
do you remember, it was summer on Dead Tour,
do you remember this one couple pounds you had
that you were hustling for like a weekend?
Do you have any clear memory of that?
Because it's kind of important.
Well, I think you might've remembered
just because he hit Joe Brand up, you know,
gee, hit Joe Brand up again,
and had him mail him some more weed.
I think two ounces, right?
And we don't even know if the seeds came
from the Deer Creek show,
or the seeds came from the weed that Joe sent him later.
Based on the stories I've kind of deciphered,
I think it came from the ones that was sent.
That was sent.
One had no seeds.
But then again, we know,
gee, stories are a little up and down.
I mean, you know, not to,
like two of my favorite cuts of all time
come out of, gee, little rooms,
but I will say that all of us on this thing
have tried to interpret what he meant
by rejuvenating the 91 after it got tired in 94.
Yeah.
I always rejuvenate them.
Rejuvenate, yeah.
The rejuvenation, he had to let it go and rejuvenate it.
That's how you fix it.
From seed, and that shit never got explained.
You know?
And so I don't, you know,
when any time you have a situation where,
you know, we can even go back and take, you know,
like ancient, you know, ancient Virginia skunk bud
grown for SSSC, or Mr. Soul, you know, working for SSSC.
You know, you create these ancient legends
and it's like, how do you disprove them?
Yeah.
In a lot of cases, you can't prove or disprove
because they're so old.
Well, let's get back to the forums.
I got a question.
Yeah, yeah.
What was the first place,
do you remember where the first, like seed bank,
the first seed bank that carried your shit
when people could actually buy it?
Which one was it?
Well, we don't talk about that.
Oh, okay.
So is it an unmentionable?
I ain't friends with that guy anymore.
Oh, shit.
My fault.
That dude, a little loco.
Yeah, oh, okay.
Gotcha.
You gotta remember, I didn't even start my seed company
until 2014.
Yeah, yeah, I remember.
Yeah, I...
I could say one thing is that my buddy
that I never mentioned his name,
but Staten Island, when we were doing all the super dog work
and we were doing all those hybrids
that made it into the Cannabible,
he had big dreams of realizing
that you could probably make more money
like off of an eight lighter of seed
than you could off an eight lighter of flour.
And he saw what was coming.
I honestly didn't believe him.
I didn't think that you would ever be able in America
to like package up and sell enormous amounts of seed
or anything like that
because at the time we were making all this stuff
and we were literally giving it away
to good friends and stuff
because we had more than we knew what to do with
and there wasn't an outlet for it.
The era that Caleb talks about getting involved
is one of the earlier eras
where you could really actually start to sell it.
It wasn't simple in the beginning.
Even if you were an active breeder,
finding out how to get it to the community
wasn't very simple.
No.
At all.
You had to trust.
I mean, like even with me,
I started the selling seeds directly really early
for a US person.
But when I first started,
you still had to really put your trust in someone in Europe
for the most part,
if you wanted any kind of traction for your seeds,
if you wanted any,
I mean, you had to work with seed banks
for people to eventually know who you are.
If a seed bank didn't care you,
you probably weren't fucking important.
And that's the way everybody looked at it.
We were about to go into CSI after dark.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But yeah, I mean,
a good bit of that was in the 90s,
when DJ Short wanted to get his blueberry seed out there,
he had to give it away to two different groups in Europe.
Yeah.
First, he had to give it to Tony at Sag Martha,
and then he had to give it to Dutch Passion.
I don't know if he intentionally gave it away,
but I think that's how it ended up working out.
I think he did.
Huh?
Didn't he purposely give them to him and make deals with them?
He purposely did.
I think he thought that he would still retain all control
and this and that,
that's where he was probably mistaken.
In order for him to even like get money for his seeds,
he had to send them to an established seed bank.
Yeah.
In a different continent.
That's how hard it was to move seeds then.
Yeah.
But you know, when he, I think Sag Martha,
they had his seeds in what, like, you know,
the mid 90s or something like that,
right around there.
Yeah.
The internet didn't even exist then really.
Right, right.
It did, but not-
Not on any level that you were going to be able
to use it for that.
Yeah, yeah.
I think Overgrow started in either 98 or 99.
Or yeah.
Maybe?
Yep.
No, you're right about that.
So like the first forums,
the first being able to exchange stuff,
like how would DJ have even set up an internet,
was he going to set up a GeoCities,
like fucking, you know, webpage and sell illegal beans?
You know?
I mean, up until they passed the 215 in late 96,
I think it was, it was illegal in all 50 states.
There wasn't even a legitimate reason
you could possess any of it.
Yeah.
And I think he felt burned.
But you know, what were you going to do
when you gave it away to the Dutch?
Right.
If he didn't know that those Dutch guys
were going to do whatever the fuck they wanted with it,
then he was just, he had just done his groundwork.
Yeah.
Right.
Well, yeah.
That's a, blueberry is almost a full day's topic
just by itself.
It is.
But I just meant in the sense that like,
just to use it on the example of how hard it was
to sell seeds if you were a small American breeder.
Yeah.
He had to work with the Dutch just to get it out there.
There wasn't an avenue.
What were you going to do?
I mean, you know, even like early,
even early American, you know, seed sellers or whatever
used to try to fake that their stuff was based out of Europe.
Right, right.
Right?
You know, I mean, one of the things that IG did
and the middle and the sort of the middle era
of middle late to 15 was things opened up enough
that people felt free to be able to like, you know,
you could have a Swamp Boys.
You could have a CSI Humble.
You could have just these people that were like,
I'm gonna make my own packaging.
I'm gonna make my own beans.
I'm gonna go to these like gray area,
cannabis cup swap meets and hustle seeds.
I'm gonna start to mail.
I can say back in 02, 03, 04, 05.
I mean, my buddy from Staten Island would tell me
about this stuff that he wanted to do.
And I would laugh at him.
I was like, oh, you want us to all go to jail?
Because that's what it seems like
you're talking about to me, you know?
Yeah.
When I started, I was one of the few people
that pretended that my website was in Amsterdam
just to like try to hide under the shadows, you know,
just cause no one was doing it.
It fucking was a big red flag.
So even, yeah, I mean,
I was just waiting for that hit.
Even having the infrastructure set up to be successful.
Yeah.
And that's kind of why there was so few breeders back then
because it was generally done out of love
and you were trading amongst other people.
And there wasn't something like there is now
where somebody can be like,
oh, I'm gonna drop my Mac one drop
and I'm gonna make 200 grand.
And you know, I'm gonna hype it.
Yeah.
You really couldn't hype it.
There wasn't marketing.
There wasn't an ability to reach a big audience.
Right, right.
I don't think, you know?
No.
It took a while.
Well, in the era, you know,
oh six, you know, through oh eight, even 2010,
I mean, most of the marketing,
most of the availability
was all based on internet forums, right?
Yeah.
You know, that was.
Yeah.
And people should also remember
that when Overgrow and Cannabis World got shut down,
they got shut down because a very big, you know,
seed vendor got raided, Heaven's Stairway.
That was, and that scared a bunch of people.
And there's still repercussions
and ripples hitting from that fucking bust.
You know?
And, you know, and then, you know,
and, you know, and people even in Canada
and stuff like that, you know, Mark Emery, you know?
I mean, he went to fucking, he went to jail.
It was, it wasn't.
Did you have any dealings with Mark Emery, Caleb?
At all?
Oh, no, no.
No interactions?
No interactions at all, but, you know,
I was getting Cannabis Culture or Cannabis Canada
from pretty much like the first issue, you know?
I've always been a historian.
So, I mean, I have hundreds and hundreds of cannabis books
and I was, you know, for years,
I was getting every single magazine
that was put out on everything.
So, I've always been way more of a reader than a talker.
Yeah.
You know, it helps put details together sometimes.
Yeah, it does.
Yeah.
But no direct, you know, dealings.
I mean, the stuff I liked from those magazines though
and him were like the ABC stuff from back in the late 90s.
And then the Purple Indica, Purple Kush stuff
that was in those early issues as well.
Do you think Emory was working with the same Purple Indica
that's around now or at least a relative?
It wasn't Emory.
There was an article based out of Snohomish County
in Washington.
And it basically dated that stuff back into the,
you know, at the very least, you know, early, mid 90s.
That's cool.
There was a question we were talking about the other night
and I was like, oh, I need to ask Notso that.
And I can't remember what it was.
It had something to do with,
how did Kim, do you make it to California, Notso?
Oh yeah.
How did it make it here?
Yeah, who brought it?
Oh, that's a pretty simple story.
So it ties into the forums.
So people, in 06, people started getting excited
about Chemdog and the Chemdog story
because it started getting posted.
Like Caleb was saying, Shabba got the,
got SkunkVA to start posting about his,
you know, recollections and different stuff like that.
And then, you know, that's kind of actually
what started to reunite people like PeeBud
and Joe Brand and Chemdog.
They all started chatting.
I believe they even called like the seeds
that ended up being the one through four,
the reunion seeds.
Or yeah, the number four,
they named the reunion Fino, specifically.
The reunion Fino, that's what it was, right.
Because it was like, they'd all kind of met up as this,
you know, like different people were like,
hey dude, they're talking about your story
on the internet, right?
And so Chemdog hadn't actually had the Chem 91
in quite a long time.
He had gotten in trouble and lost it.
And he had been working with some of the Chemdog
super skunk hybrids that he had
and bag seed and different things.
And when it got famous again, he wanted it back,
but nobody had it.
So he got SkunkVA to go back east with it.
And he was like, if you bring it back to me,
and I've got this different one
that you guys don't have out there,
and I'll give it to you.
So he went back east and saw a dude
and gave him the dog.
And then Greg gave him the D.
And he came back and mommed it up.
And that's how me and IC Collective both got it.
So it was SkunkVA that did it, right?
100%.
Oh, cool.
And that was it.
Was it on you SkunkVA?
It was him.
It was all, he's the reason it's,
to me, he's the reason it's on the West Coast.
He put forth the effort.
He went back east to see Chemdog.
He gave the dog to Chemdog.
He got the D.
That was the most sick.
If I remember too,
I believe that Chemdog tried to give him back the MSS.
Yeah, he just said that.
But it was the shorter one that was in the high times,
and it wasn't what Homie remembered at all.
That makes a lot of sense too.
So then, yeah.
And then he came back and he grew it up into a mom
or whatever.
And then IC Collective and myself got it
not that long after that.
But to me, it's like the reason it's on the West Coast
is SkunkVA.
Well, on Greg, on G's tour,
he dropped it off in the LA area with Swerve, the ChemD,
in 06, but this is the autumn of 06.
Swerve traded him a bunch of fake cuts for it.
No big deal.
And then he stopped at Obsolete's in Central Cal
on his tour.
And then he stopped at Joe Brand's,
and then he headed up into Oregon
and stopped at some other folks' place.
And I think he might've given them the ChemD too.
But he stopped at a good handful of places,
giving cuts out, selling weed at dispensaries,
all that kind of stuff on his reunion tour of sorts.
And this was like first week of August 06.
So it sounds like SkunkVA went over there
earlier in the year and got the same or similar cut.
I don't know.
Seems like there was a few cuts that got passed out
that year.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, but that's kind of, that's how,
that's how the, and that led to a bunch of stuff.
That led to the one, two, three, four getting popped
and starting to get traded around.
Right.
That led to the D, that led to the one through the four
and the D and all that starting to get added to the mix.
I don't know that, the weird thing about the Chem stuff
is that my buddy disliked the Cis quite a bit.
He thought it was ugly
and he didn't like how it got him high.
So he never brought it West.
And so it never really percolated around our crew.
You know, we, way later we saw some of the S1s
but not the actual, not the actual first one, you know?
Yeah.
So, but yeah, I mean, that's, and I, you know,
I'm pretty sure, you know, he, I never lost it
after Skunk gave it to me.
That's cool.
Yeah, I mean, and that's the kind of thing, like, you know,
CSI and I talk about it all the time.
It's like, are there strains where like the chain
of custody wasn't broken?
Right, right.
Because once you lose the chain of custody,
you know, it's hard.
It gets hard, you know, like, because who knows, you know?
You try to, you lost the sour diesel,
you try to get it back.
It's not the same thing you remember.
You lost this, you try to get it back.
It's not the same you remember, you know,
so on and so forth.
So, you know.
Kind of like when a 707 Shabba got his Bubba back from me.
I don't think I did it on purpose.
It was an accident.
It got mixed up in a flat
because I was bringing a ton of people,
a bunch of stuff at a party.
And then like a year later, he's like, yeah,
inspect his Bubba.
And I was like, what's this inspect his Bubba?
And he had bomb threat and not.
Oh shit.
And not.
But I was like, my bad, my bad.
I ain't trying to give you, you know, the fake.
That's one.
Well, not fake, but you know.
Yeah.
But yeah, that happens all the time.
I think I'd take a bomb threat over original, maybe.
You can always get a new bomb threat
if you have that original.
That's true.
It's a good point.
You know.
Here's a question for you.
Since we've kind of meandered away from the forum stuff,
but do you, CSI, do you do any work with GZO?
Are you planning any work with it?
Maybe if I could find a mass super skunk.
Yeah. Yeah.
That was for you too, really.
I was telling him last night that I think he should
because I think it's a rad clone,
but it is very finicky and it does make it a lot harder
to pull off reversals on unhappy, finicky shit.
Right.
It would be really cool to kind of attempt to remake
like a sour type from, you know, building blocks.
I mean, we all have the 91, but you know,
what building blocks, you know,
it might not have to be the exact thing,
but what could you get close enough to,
to make a sour diesel out of, you know,
the original building blocks?
Yeah.
You know.
I think GZO leans closer to a sour type
than it does a chem type, personally.
Oh yeah, definitely.
Definitely.
Yeah.
I think so.
It's a cool one.
Yeah. Yeah.
All right.
So people want to hear something about Irene.
I don't know what they want to hear about Irene.
I think we've already told the story of Irene,
but do you have any good Irene tales?
Oh, I don't know.
I mean, she's cool.
I think I had Irene for a little bit
and didn't realize she was, you know,
as nice as she was until I think I grew her outdoors
in maybe 2008, I'm thinking.
Yeah.
I don't want to fudge the dates though.
But yeah, she came out so nice back then, you know,
good old fashioned Atlanta's finest.
Yeah.
It is a special one.
Yeah.
I mean, it doesn't have a whole lot of a story, you know.
Yeah.
Just another bag seat, really.
That's what it all boils down to,
is just another fucking bag seat.
I mean, that is one of the most humbling things
about breeding is that a lot of the most famous strains
are total accidents.
Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Right.
And then you put a bunch of time and work
and effort into stuff.
And then, you know, your air conditioner goes out
and some shit herms and the seed off of that
is better than anything you tried to do.
And I think a lot of times when it comes
to like these stories, the accidental weed is so good,
it's what makes people want to try to like shoehorn in
that they had some intentional part of making it.
So much that I was just there or we got late.
They don't wanna say, well, I just got lucky in my room.
Mm-hmm.
They wanna be like, oh, well, I did this and I did this
and I did this and then that happened.
And yeah, now it's all the weed that you all want.
Well, everybody's gotta work their stud.
Isn't that how it's done?
You know, but really it was more like, you know,
I had my room, I ended up partying for a few days,
I fucked off, I walked in there, there was some bananas,
I found some seeds trimming.
That's like 99% of bag seed stories.
Yeah.
That's kind of why I believe Matt Berger
and Josh D's story, because it's not impressive.
It's not a, it's a Herm, you know,
in a little closet under the stairs story.
And it's just like, who makes that stuff up?
That's not right.
It's just, oops.
Yeah, I mean, you know, that's very humbling.
But I also do think that a lot of that 90s weed,
it just goes to show that when you're crossing things
that like aren't, when you're crossing real fire,
you know, it's a lot easier to get, you know,
like was Neville an amazing breeder
or did he just get to get the best of the best
from America and cross it together for the first time?
Right, right.
You know what I'm saying?
There's arguments to both.
He was, you know, he was the first person
to cross NL and skunk.
Right.
You know, huh?
Shut up, Nato.
What are you saying?
I'm rude.
No, no, I was thinking you should get Tom on
and try to get, figure out a little more details
about Pine Tar and all that kind of stuff.
Cause.
Love to.
You know.
I don't think he even knows who I am to get him on.
Or he's not likely.
I think he's banned off of IC Mag.
So yeah.
I mean, let me ask you like a real question.
Do you think that he would be better for a live
or do you think he would be better
for a lightly edited podcast or something?
Oh, probably a heavily edited podcast.
You're right.
Because I mean, we definitely,
Matt and I have definitely interviewed
some like knowledgeable old timers.
Right.
Yeah.
Boy.
No, Tom's a character.
I like him, but man, he'll, yeah.
He might drag off topic.
Yeah.
You know.
So there's a question everybody is asking
and it's up to you if you want to talk about it.
I don't even know if you want to deal with this one right now
or save it for a full episode, Caleb.
Backstory on Z, what do you think?
Oh man.
I don't know.
Man, I don't want to like say say yet.
Cause.
Yeah, let's say you want to save it
for a full show of some sort later.
Well, I still have some groans to do on that whole thing,
but man, I wouldn't be surprised
if it's not just an S1 of that green Sherbert cut.
Yeah.
There's just too many similarities
and the whole, you know, a heterozygous, homozygous thing
between the two of them really kind of leans
towards it just being a S1 of that.
Yeah.
But I don't know.
Yeah, I could go on and on on some comparisons on,
you know, how some of that stuff could,
could potentially make sense.
Yeah.
But I don't know.
I don't know.
Yeah, we'll save it for another time.
But yeah, no, that's a good answer.
One thing that is cool about that is that CSI
and I and Matt, we all talk all the time
about how when you compare stories
to what the plants tell you, how they breed,
what their S1s look like, what they look like
when they get crossed to different things
and how, what your eyes tell you lines up
with what the story is.
Right, right, right.
And sometimes it adds a lot in terms of what you see,
you know, like about, I have a really hard time believing
that the CIS, the 91, the ChemD and the one through four
all came out of the same bud.
Yeah, yeah.
You know, they're just too vastly different to me,
you know, but that's, I wasn't there either.
You know, and a lot of this stuff is like
the most famous stories, they almost,
because almost all of them come from accidents
and because a lot of them come from other people,
it's like the people that marketed stuff
or marketed Skittles or marketed cookie or whatever,
like they probably, you know, different people get it,
maybe it doesn't get quite as famous, you know?
And they should get great credit for marketing it
to the point that they did.
Yeah.
Right?
Oh yeah.
100%.
I've never disputed that.
You know, I give lots of people accolades
for successfully marketing and, you know,
building, you know, clones that would never have been
anything up, you know, to what they are.
What I've always, you know, frowned on, of course,
is, you know, people being dishonest doing it.
I think you can do it honestly and still be successful.
Sure.
You know, having to just make a big old,
you know, fictitious backstories
or act like you're the one responsible for it.
That's why instead of, you know,
I mean, there's cats like, you know, Josh and Matt
who are like, oh yeah, it was a harm accident
under the stairs.
And then there's other cats, you know, who are like,
yes, we created that from our multi-thousand plant grows.
Aren't we awesome?
Yes.
Yes.
We popped 15 seeds and the 20th was the best.
So, you know,
you know,
I think the truth is the biggest factor for me.
Yeah.
Yeah, and there's an aspect where,
and you know, we should say this too,
is that truth is a, most people,
everyone likes to say they want the truth,
but like people that really care about it,
it's like a really small percentage.
Yeah.
Oh, thank you.
Most people like truth if it helps them
burnish their money or their reputation or whatever else.
Sure.
And the truth is usually boring.
You know, people who are looking for excitement
from the truth,
they're going to be like, oh, well that was lame.
Yeah.
Something up, I don't care.
Especially when the answer is 99% of the time,
oh, it was a bad seed.
Yeah.
Or, yeah, or, you know,
or it happened in an accident at my buddy's house.
Or I was this, or I was, you know, like, you know,
you were early involved and you know the story,
even just knowing the story is cool.
Right.
But then people want to be part,
like they want to be this active component
that was critical to the story.
You know?
Right.
And I did forget someone earlier
that was really important when I was, you know,
coming in and that was doing reversals before I was,
and that was Rascal.
I think I would be remiss not to mention him
because he was doing good things
and had legitimate cuts, you know, for the most part.
Yeah.
As far as I know, like he was doing good fucking work
and he was doing it at a time when it wasn't popular,
when people were pushing back against Feminized Seed.
So I give that guy props too.
All the stuff that that guy made
between whatever it was, 09 and 12 or whatever.
Yeah.
All those hybrids are fire.
Yeah, there was some good shit in there.
I mean, he really, maybe not all,
but like the vast majority of the stuff,
he had some really nice cuts
and he was crossing them together
and they led to some really nice things.
Yeah, I mean, White Fire, you know,
a lot of people don't even know like about the White anymore.
Like not a lot of people talk about it,
but that was the essence behind the White Fire.
That was fucking cool.
Right, right.
Yeah.
That's one I'd like to touch on too in the future.
Oh yeah.
The Swamp Boys, Big Ricky in particular,
he's alluded a lot to knowing exactly
what the hybrid of the White is
because it's supposedly a TK hybrid,
but you know, he likes riddles and secrets.
So.
He speaks in riddles and lyrics.
I call it a haiku, hillbilly haiku.
Oh, there we go.
Sometimes I wonder how long he takes to craft
some of his Instagram posts and how to make it like,
you know, he, cause he's got his own language
when it comes to that, you know?
Have you seen stuff like the White inside the TKS ones?
Yeah.
Yeah.
There was one plant in our first run of them where,
actually there was four plants
that we pulled out of the first run.
And one was a Green Girl Scout cookie,
like a green form cut.
Other was a plant that looked just like the White,
you know, not, oh, but so similar.
Yeah.
It was obvious.
And then there was the number 50
and the 51, which were my two actual favorites
of the whole bunch.
And then, you know, I smoked both those heavily
and the 50 turned out to be my absolute favorite
of the whole bunch.
And so that's the one I kept and still play with
from the first.
And then I did another 100 plus, you know, TKS one pop
and, you know, got other selections from there.
Yeah.
So Caleb, what do you think about cookies?
Great.
That's a question for when asked, what do you think?
I think that goes into the category of 2000,
what, 2010 and on forward.
2010, 2011, yeah.
People ask a bunch of that.
And I think, I mean, it's a story, you know,
and it's a story that like,
there's a lot of pieces that aren't known that well,
but it's a definitely one that's gonna create,
you know, it's a super popular brand.
There's a lot of money involved.
There's a lot of rep involved.
And it's one of those things,
if you don't get it exactly right,
there it's gonna be gunning for you.
Here's a relevant one.
Here's a relevant one for you, Caleb.
Are you gonna S1 any of the NL selections?
I was gonna leave that up to you, buddy.
Yeah, I think we might.
I think we might.
We're gonna see how it goes.
Yeah.
No, I think they'd be worth it.
I think they'd be worth it to do that.
I like my feminized, so.
Yes, sir.
I'll grow some of Matt's S1 NLs.
Hell yeah.
There we go.
Well, we've kept him here for goddamn a long time.
So I know he's got a busy night.
I gotta get back to packing.
Anything else anybody wants to talk about?
Awesome.
So what's the next drop, Caleb?
Where can we find it?
Oh, I don't know if I'm dropping dead, maybe.
The next drop is dead.
I'm good for now.
Yeah.
Okay, well go check out humboldtcsi.com, correct?
Yeah.
Yeah, humboldtcsi.com.
Keep your eyes peeled.
He's always putting stuff up on there, on and off.
He doesn't often announce it, so just keep checking back.
I'm still waiting on Natso's next drop.
What's that?
I'm still waiting on Natso's next drop.
Yeah, where the fuck's that at, Natso?
It's slowly developing.
Okay, good.
It's slowly developing through, you know,
I'm not that public of a guy.
It's changing though, you know?
Thanks to both of you.
Basically, like if the two most important people
for you guys seeing my face on a weekly basis
is the two people on this talk tonight.
Guaranteed without them, I would not be showing my face
or chatting about stuff.
They both pushed for quite a long time
to get me to tell stories and talk shit.
So really, it really is.
They gave me the confidence to say,
you people would wanna hear it.
Let's chat, let's talk history.
And you know, and there's an aspect to it too
where it's like a lot of this stuff
we're talking about with you guys,
this is what we have all been doing amongst each other
privately for fucking ever.
Yeah.
So we've all heard each other's stupid fucking stories
a hundred times.
You know, and all that.
And so this is really how information gets,
information and cuts get saved and shared.
And you know, history survives.
And generally the point of all this is to get, you know,
versions of history out there and gets passed along.
Right.
So newer people can hear it.
So it's just not a wash and bullshit.
And everyone keep your eyes peeled for Sterling's,
what is it, Sterling Green drop eventually?
Yeah, eventually.
Eventually, when it comes around,
everybody's asking about it.
So I figured I'd plug it.
And there's a bunch of good questions today
we didn't get to as always.
If just because you asked and we didn't chat,
you know, doesn't mean it's not worthwhile.
You can always message us about them.
We're always looking for different things to chat about
what people have interest in, you know.
So keep all that stuff coming.
We always appreciate you guys this Friday night 100%.
So super cool.
And go check out the Breeder Cynic at Patreon.
You gotta go to Google, type in Breeder Cynic at Patreon.
Go check it out.
Go show some love to speakeasyseedbank.com.
They're who edits and gets these things up
for the podcast version.
So show them some love and check out writeseedco.com
and humboldtcsi.com.
And we will see you next week, probably at the same time.
Exactly.
Peace.
Thanks, Dillon.
Everybody have a good one.
Want more Breeder Syndicate?
Be sure to check out our Patreon by going to Google
and searching Breeder Syndicate Patreon.
We have a secret discord where we are available
at most times and interact daily.
There are a lot of perks to be had there, so check it out.
Need seeds?
Check out writeseeds.com where you can get our seeds
and our reversal spray for making your own feminized seeds.
