It was like I was connected with everything around me.
All of a sudden I just started questioning everything I'd ever been told.
You know, by the time I got high that very first time,
when it started to hit me,
and I'm like, wow,
I got high.
Welcome to Breeder Syndicate. I'm Matthew, the host.
I'm here with my friend and co-host, NotSoDog, and Raho.
We got Raho back and we're here with Red Ryder,
a classic Colombian grower from ICMAG,
and we're going to be talking about his history of growing Colombians,
as well as other things, and he's got a long storied past.
Thank you for joining us, Red Ryder. It's a pleasure.
Thank you very much. It's a pleasure to be here with you guys.
We do have a little bit of a lag with the foreign connection,
so what we might do for this interview is,
Raho knows Red Ryder really well,
so we're going to hopefully have Raho ask some very leading questions,
and then allow Red Ryder to just sort of like chat for a while on those things,
and then Matt and I will chime in here and there as needed.
So apologies for any of the technical difficulties,
but it's going to be kind of,
Raho knows what to ask to get the cool info out,
and Red Ryder has the cool info, so we'll start there.
And we decided to do it chronologically, Raho,
so do you have the list in front of you?
I do. I've pasted up in the private chat section.
Awesome. Thank you.
For all of us to kind of keep us on track.
Hey, thanks for the toss, Notso, and Red,
it's so great to have you here with us.
You know, I've been reading your story,
your life story for eight years now, it seems like,
and it's just been such an adventure to read that when I got intro'd,
you know, hooked up with Notso and Action Jackson there, Matt,
you know, that's what it says on his title on the screen,
if you're listening to the audio version of this, right?
So, you know, got hooked up with these guys.
I realized this is an opportunity for some of my favorite people on the forums
to try and, you know, get them to come and share their story in a different platform.
And, you know, it's just great to have you joining us and sharing the info.
You know, I remember some of the first stuff I read from you was talking about your youth,
you know, we're about the same age, so you were smoking in the 70s and early 80s,
and you were telling your stories about what it was like, you know,
your early days when you first got high,
and some different experiences and places you lived around cannabis.
Can you tell us a little bit about kind of those early days and how you got into weed?
Oh, sure.
Oh, one more thing.
I lived on a dude ranch in Colorado when I was about 10 years old,
and that was my first experience seeing cannabis.
I didn't smoke it or get high, but I noticed it was, they said it was even Colombian.
But we had a campfire, everybody was sitting around and they were smoking it,
the older guys and everything, and they really had a really good experience with it.
And of course, it was a few years later when I actually smoked some and got high.
But that was later when I, I think it was a very similar story to like you were talking about,
where after school, I was riding home on the bus, and this guy had some joints for sale.
And he said, it's really, really good, man.
And I gave him a dollar, bought two of them, and it's wrapped in nice pink rolling papers.
And when I got off the school bus, I had like a little entourage with me, you know,
that was wanting to see what happened when we smoked it.
And we went out in the woods, and that was when I first really felt it,
realized this is something I wanted to keep with me in my life.
But it was Mexican the first time.
I'm sure you remember.
I remember that whole picture you just painted, man.
I can still, I can picture the joints, you know, the paper looked like it was so thick, you know,
you couldn't see anything through it.
And the ends were probably spun and twisted.
And if it unspun, the whole thing would just dump out, you know, because it was powdery in there.
And the kids, I can't even imagine the excitement of the kids kind of chasing along,
trying to find a place to hide in some bushes or some crap, you know,
as you were, you know, just the pure innocence of that introduction moment and everything.
It's great, Ryder.
I love the story, and I think we all identify with that.
Oh, yeah, that's very familiar.
Going with your friends and everybody waiting to see who's going to smoke it first
and who's going to have the first reaction.
Yeah, and of course, I guess that first time around the campfire,
did you actually smoke with those older dudes and not experience, not get high?
Or was it you watched them do it and thought, oh, this is okay.
Maybe I'll someday later you tried it.
Well, actually, that was a, this is a ghost story.
We were camping up in the mountains in Colorado in between Bale and Steamboat Springs.
And we were probably at 12,000 feet way up on top of this mountain.
And I just watched them smoke a little bit of it.
But in the morning, my cousin, who was a little bit older than I, told me,
oh, man, there were ghosts last night.
Didn't you hear all the horses and all the Indians and everything?
And I look at him and say, no, man, I didn't remember any of that.
But apparently they woke up in the middle of the night hearing horses
stampeding through the little valley we were in.
And it just get louder and louder and louder and no, nothing appeared.
And it scared the shit out of all these guys.
But I didn't hear any of it.
I only heard the story.
And they said, man, I do remember them saying, man, that Colombian is like,
like psychedelic, you know?
Nice. Okay.
So they heard things that you couldn't hear.
Yeah, it was a ghost story that they used to tell.
And I was there when it happened,
but I certainly didn't hear any horses or anything like that.
But I do remember that the smell of the weed was really, really sweet.
Something I really liked the smell of.
That's nice. Hey, Red, you know, I should have said this right at the beginning.
You're, you know what, my, my awareness of you and your experience,
the story you're telling is going to be focused very much about Colombian weed.
And the country of Columbia and your love affair with both of those and how,
what's where that's taken you right through life.
So, because you've got a great story to tell there.
And most people, you know, if you're looking at you on there, you're not,
you're not from Columbia, right? You're an American from, you know, I'm sorry.
So let's start talking about that. That, that Colombian weed, you were saying,
what year was this? The first time you smoked, you didn't.
Well, let me tell you about the first time.
And I left out an important character and that was Becky.
Becky was a 16 year old. This was the last day of school.
And she, when she found out I had the marijuana, when I had the two joints,
her, her, her disposition to me changed and she became very attentive.
And I was, I suddenly realized that, man, this weed really gets her excited.
You know, she's really.
So we, we walked down towards the lake with a little group of,
of smaller children following us.
And as we got to a certain place, we lit up the joint.
And when I, I noticed when we lit the joint, all the little kids were gone,
but I, I, I gave it to her.
She took a couple of big hits and she grabbed my arm and said, Hey,
come here. And she put the joint in her mouth, you know, for a shotgun.
Yeah. And gave me a big shotgun kiss. Yeah.
And I felt it, man. I mean, I, that shit, that was the first hit of that joint,
but man, I felt it right away.
And we smoked the rest of that joint and we walked down to the,
I was high as hell. Everything was just incredibly, it was afternoon.
The sun was out, birds were out.
We walked to this really secluded part of the lake and she just took a shot.
And she took her clothes off and went into the water.
And I was, as women tend to do around all of us.
I didn't even know. I didn't, I should have jumped on that, but I didn't,
I was just too much in. Why? And she said, come on in.
So I went into my clothes, but it was an excellent experience.
That shotgun, that shotgun kiss is like,
was like the sexiest thing ever, right?
Combining your two favorite things in the world.
It was a good way to get a girl to kiss you too.
Oh yeah. Well, and she did it. It was even better.
All right. So then she goes, she's in the water.
But I never told her I had another joint and I kept that other one.
I went back home and I ate and I was with my parents and everything.
And I thought, man, I still have a whole nother joint of that.
So I turned on my best friend. He's like my friend of 40 years, 50 now.
And after that, we started trying to grow it, you know,
from all the seeds and we never really got any plants, but,
but that started the, the, my quest where I would buy, buy every week.
I was working then I was 13, but I had a job.
And every week when I got paid,
I'd go over to the Yamaha dealership and the mechanic would sell me a nice lid
of Mexie, you know, nice. It was a great summer.
Yeah. Yeah. We,
we rode dirt bikes all summer down by this Lake and we just get high.
I met some other guys that got me high down there with some really good like
tie stick. Wow. But you know,
I already knew there was really good weed around even though all I could buy
was, you know, shit weed, but we were reading high times.
Yeah. And the high times I, but to me, high times was like a penthouse.
You know, it was like, I knew it existed, but it wasn't what I was getting.
Very much. Yeah. Yeah. They were. Yeah.
Go ahead. Oh, I was just, I was just thinking, you know, that,
that's my exact same experience. I had a very good friend.
You know, through high school as I was doing all this stuff, you know,
side by side, we were, we were, we were a real pair.
And it sounds like you had that, that same experience.
I'm sure that's pretty common. You know,
I think it's just so refreshing to get people to come on now who've been,
you know, chasing this, this thing for so long and who,
who admit when they weren't a huge OG,
OG of the business, you know,
they were just a little bit more of a fan of the business and they were just
not a huge OG, OG baller.
And when things went wrong and how it was,
they didn't start off, you know, with a hundred acres of, you know,
of, of stuff, they, they started off with three plants in a shadow and
you know, and it changed everything. Right. So I think, I think you,
you know, that honesty makes it just so refreshing compared to, I mean,
look, there are people out there who have done big, big, big stuff.
And I respect them. I know it's real love hearing the stories,
but there's also people out there fronting that they're,
they're more than and were more than what they really were. And I just like,
I like the honesty, right? I guess. So please continue.
Well, I was a fan of one chick. And what happened was the other, I went,
I took them to my parents' house who weren't there.
My parents weren't there.
And I tried to get them to come in to listen to some music and they said,
nah, it looked a little dangerous in the house. And,
but the Colombian girl, Uchi, Uchi, she said, yeah, I'll go in with you.
And one thing led to another. And I started seeing her by herself.
And one night I bought some really good Lumbo, man. I mean,
this was a good 50, $45 lid of Lumbo.
And I thought it was just really, really good.
And I was with her and I said, look, you have to try this.
You have to try this. It's from your country, man.
And believe it or not,
she took a hit of it and threw it down at we were outside.
She threw it on the ground and I was like, Hey, well, that's my job.
But between her lovely cleavage, she pulled out a joint, man.
And she said, now this is good weed.
And she lit that up and that's when I really had some good,
good connoisseur Colombian, but also fell in love with her.
You know, I mean, it was kind of a combination thing there.
Yeah. I bet.
Oh yeah. Then I had to know more about Columbia. I, I, but she left,
she was there for three weeks and went back to Columbia and never heard
from her again.
Oh man.
That is the best Colombian love.
That is the best Colombian love story ever.
Oh my God. So awesome. Wow. Wow.
Oh, it goes on top of that, man.
What happened after that?
Yeah. We, we didn't get all of the American part of the story yet.
Did we know this one?
This one was a little bit different.
This one was a little bit more,
it was a little bit more of a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a,
a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a,
a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a,
a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, I don't know,
I don't know what happened after that either way either way.
I just, you know,
this was the first time I got high and I don't know why,
but I'd smoked it before. I mean I'd smoked weed before.
Yeah. Yeah.
I think that's common for a lot of it's like the first time we,
we smoke, we don't quite know what to where,
what we're going to experience. We don't know how much to smoke.
We don't really.
it so we don't understand the high. So like it takes three or four times to where you're
like, ah, this is comfortable, you know? Yeah. Then you know what to expect. Yeah, exactly.
That's great. You know, when the boys in the lab coats start talking about cannabinoid
receptors, you know, you know, from the endocannabinoid system, you think about the first time you
flood those things with an external cannabinoid. It's really cool because, you know, mate,
who knows, maybe, maybe like the first time you do that, it's like, whoa, you know, your
cannabinoids are all personalizing them, right? There's, you know, whoa, you know, they're
really reacting to this flood of cannabinoids. They don't know what to do with it. Maybe
they shut down. Yeah. The first time, right? Maybe I'm blocking or something. I'm just
throwing this shit out there, man. That stuff we were smoking had been through hell before
it got to us. So, so have you, Ryder, have you heard of something called CHS out there?
Can it, I think it's cannabinoid hypermesis syndrome. No, it's fairly new. And it's something
that they've been pushing like, so I've both my brother and my cousin have gone to the
ER recently with some cyclic vomiting, kind of like I have too. Like, and they, the nurses
keep pushing this idea that it's from something called CHS cannabinoid hypermesis syndrome.
So it's something, and I started doing research into it. And one of my good friends is an
ER doctor and he's a, he's a smoker too. So he's been really researching this cause he
started having similar symptoms and from what they can tell early on the research, they
thought maybe it's from crops sprayed with neem oil. Yeah. But they're not sure if that
really is the case. They're not sure if it's from, you know, heavy use of extracts since
a lot of people randomly use extracts with flour and it just too much for our systems,
but whatever it is, it's inducing cyclical vomiting in people just like day after day
after day of endless puking in people that they just don't know why. And they call it
cannabinoid hypermesis syndrome, but realistically it could be related to terpenes. It could be
related to an unknown or untested for cannabinoid, you know, not THC, but it could be, you know,
God knows what else, but yeah, it's an interesting one that's going to be popping up more and more.
Yeah. Maybe the presence of, of foreign stuff and concentrates. I mean,
none of this really happened until there was a legal market. Yeah. There's a lot of causation,
you know, correlation causation type stuff. Yeah. Stuff. Yeah. Probably going on, but, you
know, I, I, did you talk to any of your family about the theory I talked with you about, about
the effects of breathing super heated shit from a butane torches? No. So neither of them do that,
but they, they both are very heavy, like vape cartridge users, like the carts, like the isolate
cart shit. You know, remember the guy that, that used to measure, that used to measure this mystery
oil and all the available butane on the market. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I get
frustrated with science these days because they all have these other agendas, you know, it's just
like, where's the money coming from? Well, then I moved to Florida because my father, my stepmother
lived in in West Palm Beach. And that's where I had the Dan the painter man story. That's where the
guy, he was a drug dealer lived right upstairs. And he was getting all these fantastic imports
coming through South Florida at the time. And in fact, that's when I first saw the first Indica.
Oh, wow. What year?
That was that was actually the spring of 1980. Oh, nice. Perfect. And I didn't know it was Indica. As
matter of fact, I only read about Indica in high times. I really didn't know what it was. And I did
grow plants. I started growing plants in Texas in late 70s. But I didn't know how to do it. I didn't
I didn't know how to flower them or anything like that.
Is that why you moved to Columbia? Because they just do you can't mess it up.
And I went in to hang in in 2002, February, January, I mean, to met her online, you know, I met her
online.
Had I thought, man, I want to I want to find a woman, you know, I want to meet a woman. And I
thought, where where could I find where what what woman would I want? So I started looking in
Columbia.
When I say looking, there was a program called I see her. What was it? I see cue. I see cue. Yeah.
And it allows you to do specific searches women, between the age of this age speak English, and I
flooded every one of them with a generic letter saying, Hello, my name is James. I'm a gringo. I'm
interested in meeting someone and I got many replies back. Yeah, pardon me. And as I was
responding to these replies, I started talking to a woman in Popeye John Popeye John is in the
Calcutta, Calcutta, the budget, not the budget of Calcutta, the Calcutta itself. And this is a
beautiful valley, man. This is where you want to grow. This is where the creepy comes from the best.
Gotcha. And we'll get there.
But she lived in the middle of it. And we weren't friends about weed. In fact, we didn't even talk
about it. But I my mother came one day and she said, Hey, why don't you go with? Why don't you go
meet her? You know, you're so in love. And I said, Mom, she lives in Columbia, for God's sake. There's
no way. Yeah. And my mother said, Oh, man, what kind of man are you? You know,
mom's gangster. I love it. Wow.
Follow your heart. She says, have love will travel. This was after she had her aneurysm.
Don't take stock advice from her. But, you know, good. Yeah, okay.
But as it turned out, I was talking to her and this was only a friendship. I mean, I didn't wasn't
talking any kind of romance or anything. But I said, I'm reserving the rooms. I'm going to get you a
room and get me a room. She said, Oh, save the money. We'll just get one. I said, Okay, one with two
beds. And she said, No, just get one bed. Yeah. You know, there goes the erection in my mind.
Yeah, right. I mean, at least you know, what's up at that point.
Yeah, but here's something very interesting. She had a son that was about I don't know, 17 years old.
And I got to talking to him one day. She wasn't there. He also spoke English. And he said, What are
you doing with my mom? You know, and I said, I think I love her. I want to go meet her. You know,
and he said, Do you smoke weed? And I said, Yeah. Yeah, he told me that where he lived was where
they grew the best. And he started showing me pictures on the webcam. And it was just like what I
remember. And then I started getting that the the hunger for Colombian again. Oh, wow. Wow.
Just when I mentioned just reawakened, it was always there. Right? And when I saw the picture,
man, it just flooded me with memories. Wow. Was this 95?
This was no, no, actually, this was 2001. Right, right. Okay. Around 911. When 911 happened. Gotcha.
It was right after that. But anyway, I decided I'm gonna go down to Colombia in February of 2002. And
I met this woman and fell in love with her, man. I mean, had the best I couldn't think of a better
time. But she didn't get high. Yeah. And the third day I was there. I said, Man, I'm gonna ask
somebody, you know, hey, can you hook me up? And she was like, Don't do it there. You'll go crazy.
It's a terrible drug and all this and I asked. I said, No, it's not really listen to me. I know
what I'm talking about. So I got some this guy said, Yeah, I'll sell you bag $20 about a quarter
pound. Yeah, beautiful, beautiful nickel nickel size brown buds. Yeah. And the smell I opened that
bag and all man I was right back in the in the 70s, man. Wow. So I we had changed hotels to the
Hilton. There was some reason I got a really good rate on this beautiful, incredible room overlooking
the lagoon and Cartagena. And I wanted to roll that shit up. First thing I did was I went out on the
balcony and got my papers and started breaking it down. And I looked around. I thought where the where
the hell is she at? And she went in the bathroom and locked the door. And I was like, Don't worry,
don't worry. You know, I lift that up and I got high as hell. You know, I was like, Hey, hey. And she
said, What she opened up the door and I standing there with an erection from hell, man. This does
this to you. But it was a beautiful romantic experience with the Colombian again, again.
She locked the door. So was she scared of like the consequences of someone might smell it and the cops
coming or? No, she was afraid it was gonna make me go crazy because they they don't think of drugs like we
do. They really don't. This is a narco state and the normal people, the regular people don't they don't fuck
with drugs. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Alcoholics. You know, you like drinking come here. They drink more than
Germans. Yeah. You know, we have 22 holidays a year. 22. You have five in the United States. Yeah. So
there always is always a festival a party or a reason to get drunk. Yeah, makes sense. Don't smoke
no weed. Narco states are weird, man. And it makes sense, though, because of the propaganda that the US
had pushed down there so hard. And well, not just a big piece of it here. Not Yeah, for sure. It's it's
interesting, though, because, you know, by the by the 80s, I think most people in the country kind of realized
it was not true. Right? But but there are huge parts of the population who just bought it hook, line and
sinker. And, you know, they just bought it and they pass it down to their children and just repeated its myths.
And it's a very powerful. I mean, that much she must she was scared, right? She was legitimately scared you were
going to come back and be like the crazy guy from playing the piano and reefer madness, you know?
Yeah, a little bit a little bit. Well, we're while we're here in in like the the D.A. propaganda territory. Why
don't we cover some of the parts about the perceptions of Colombia and the dangerous parts, like how dangerous it is
or isn't to go there and the perception from America and that and your your fears when you first went there? What
were your concerns? You know, when I was doing a lot of traveling in South America in the 90s, Colombia was the
one place I didn't go because it was so sketchy that right now it seems like very comfortable and nice and there's
all kinds of travel in and out. But it was by far the most violent and sketchy place, you know, in the 90s at least.
In the 90s was Pablo Escobar.
Yeah, no, it was it was like, I mean, my dad has some crazy stories of going there on business and stuff. So, you know, now
it's like reversed. I went to Venezuela because Colombia was trashed and now it's reversed. Like nobody goes to Venezuela
and Colombia is like super nice and like beautiful. And I'm sure it was then, too. It just was not so accessible, you
know, you got to be careful. I mean, if you if you if you come down here and you go on the street, act like a fool, act like
a rock star, you're going to get they're going to get you. But if you're if you're polite, respectful and not stupid, a lot of
guys get jacked when they come down here buying cocaine or buying prostitutes. And that's how they get you with the women.
You've heard of the drug that I forget what they call it, but they blow this stuff in your face and rob you.
Well, scopolamine.
Oh, like deterrent powders? Scopolamine? Yeah.
Generally speaking, when I when I would travel in Central and South America, you know, I would wear crappy clothes. You
know, I would I would not know. I would not want to know. This is like way nice. Like, I mean, you just like growing up in a big
city. I just wanted to not look like a mark.
Yeah, that's what I do. I blend in. I mean, I've worked here. I've lived in the worst barrios in Bogota. I mean, this is the red
light zone where it's very cheap prostitutes. Really a bad area. Yeah. And I never had a problem because I was just very
conscious of what was going on around me and I never had anything to steal.
Yeah, yeah.
That's a value is weed. And here weed doesn't have very much value. But to me, it's worth more than money.
Sure.
Like I said, the first my first love in 1977 was 78 or was it 79 with the first Colombian girl that I met, Uchi Rion. She
smoked, but she was from a very rich family. As in regards to security, a lot of it's common sense, man. If you want to go
out and play the fool, you want to go out and hook up with prostitutes on Tinder, shit like that, you're going to get
jacked. You know, you walk down the street counting your money speaking in English, you're going to get jacked. They'll
come right out in the middle of the day. The police only protect you here if you're paying them. There is Yeah, well, so
good.
No, that's a I mean, that's a nice direct contract. Do you know you can get protection? You know, I mean, you know, I don't
know if you could do that in the States being in a third
city.
It's not dangerous. It's not it's not any more dangerous than if you walk down downtown St. Louis or Fulton County, Atlanta. Oh, you're
going to get jacked quicker there because you look different. Yeah. Yeah, Matt. No, no. I'm and you look like a Paisa guy. You look
like
man.
I can probably pass down there pretty good. Yeah. Good. Good. Until they heard me speak Spanish or any of that. And that's when they
know.
I'm gonna borrow Jorge Cervantes is wig when I get
that'll get you anywhere.
I'll blend right in.
But let me tell you,
man.
Go on.
Colombian people in general are very, very friendly, very welcoming, very hospitable. They love foreigners. The girls are really
attracted to to North Americans, you know, and they're they want to be friends with Americans. Columbia is a very they believe
the United States is a great, great country and helps them.
All right, so we're down. We're down in Florida, right? We're down in Florida. Don, the painter is upstairs slinging. Right? slinging
weed and whatever else you try to try to indica and you're growing. All this has happened in Florida, right?
So yeah, this was Boca Raton. I remember going to see Bob Seger and the Silver Bullet band at Easter. It was a big concert at
Hollywood Sportatorium. And I remember I had to have a bag of gold to take with me to impress everybody. Yeah, right. Yeah, I did.
And Dan scored me some but it was more orange. It wasn't the gold like I had in Texas. This is more of an orange. It was good. It was
really good, but different. Yeah, yeah, we went to that concert and there was some beautiful hippie chick that came up to us and
said, Hey, you look like you need an Easter kiss. And my brother was on that like, like, yeah. But actually, I tried some another
Colombian that she just gave us a bag of weed and it was really nice. It was green, though real green Colombian had the smell had the
taste. But yeah, Dan, Dan got every kind of thing. He got the Gainesville green. I don't know if you guys ever heard of that.
Can you talk about that a little bit like your early experience with the smell and maybe possibly describe the smell and look of
Gainesville green or what you thought might be in it?
Yeah, well, Gainesville green reminded me now of what I what I grow is Oaxacan. It's very similar, but it wasn't similar to the
Oaxacan back then. Yeah, it was green and it was since a major and it had a real tiny. I don't know how is real tiny, tiny, real
nice high real real clear. That's what I like is clear clarity. Yeah. Which unfortunately, most Colombians weren't back then the red was
really, really dirty high kind of but you hold it Gainesville green the Maui the Maui wowie. Yeah, yeah. Came in a came in a can of nuts.
Oh, wow.
Yeah, I mean, I read that they are heard that, you know, like shipping it over and macadamia nut cans was a big thing.
That's so wild.
Full tap top open it up and just incredible.
It makes sense for smell. So hide the smell everything smart.
Well, it was teasing me with it. He started to let me smell it. Pull it away. Oh, no, no. Yeah, yeah. But they never found his body.
Yeah, yeah. Never saw it again.
Hey, I'm sorry. So let's start talking about that. That that Colombian weed you were saying what what year was this? Yes. First time you smoke you didn't
well, let me tell you about the first time and I left out an important character and that was Becky. Becky was 16 year old. This was the last day of school.
And when she found out I had the marijuana, when I had the two joints, her her her disposition to me changed and she became very attentive.
And I was I suddenly realized that, man, this weed really gets her excited. You know, she's. Yeah.
So we we walked down towards the lake with a little group of smaller children following us. And as we got to a certain place, we lit up the joint.
And when I I noticed when we lit the joint, all the little kids were gone. But I gave it to her. She took a couple of big hits and she grabbed my arm and said, hey, come here.
And she put the joint in her mouth, you know, for a shotgun. Yeah. And gave me a big shotgun kiss. Yeah. And I felt it, man. I mean, I that shit.
That was the first hit of that joint. But man, I felt it right away. And we smoked the rest of that joint. And we walked down to the I was high as hell.
Everything was just incredibly it was afternoon. The sun was out. Birds were out. We walked to this really secluded part of the lake and she just took her clothes off and went into the water.
And I was as women tend to do around all of us. And I didn't even know I didn't I should have jumped on that, but I didn't. I was just too much in.
Wow. She said, come on in. So I went in my clothes, but it was an excellent experience.
That shotgun that shotgun kiss is like was like the sexiest thing. Yeah. Right. Combining your two favorite things in the world. Right.
It was a good way to get a girl to kiss you, too.
You know? Yeah. Well, she and she did it. It was even better. Yeah. Yeah. But.
All right. So then she goes, she's in the water.
But I never told her I had another joint and I kept that other one. I went back home and I ate and I was with my parents and everything.
And I thought, man, I still have a whole nother joint of that. So I turned on my best friend. He's like my friend of 40 years, 50 now.
And after that, we started trying to grow it, you know, from all the seeds.
And we never really got any plants. But but that started the my quest where I would buy by every week I was working.
And I was 13, but I had a job. And every week when I got paid, I'd go to the Yamaha dealership and the mechanic would sell me a nice lid of mexi.
You know, nice. It was a great summer.
Yeah. Yeah. We we rode dirt bikes all summer down by this lake and we just get high.
I met some other guys that got me high down there with some really good like tie stick.
Wow. But, you know, I already knew there was really good weed around, even though all I could buy was, you know, shit weed.
But we were reading High Times. Yeah. And the High Times.
But to me, High Times is like a penthouse, you know, is like I knew it existed, but it wasn't what I was getting.
Very much. Yeah. Yeah. They were.
Yeah. Go ahead.
Oh, I was just I was just thinking, you know, that that's my exact same experience.
I had a very good friend, you know, through high school as I was doing all this stuff, you know, side by side.
We were we were we were a real pair.
And it sounds like you had that same experience.
I'm sure that's pretty common.
You know, I think it's just so refreshing to get people to come on now who have been chasing this thing for so long and who who admit when they weren't a huge OG OG baller.
And when things went wrong and how it was, they didn't start off, you know, with 100 acres of, you know, of stuff.
They they started off with three plants in a shadow and.
You know, and it changed everything, right.
So I think I think you, you know, that honesty makes it just so refreshing compared to I mean, look, there are people out there who have done big, big, big
stuff, and I respect them.
I know it's real love hearing the stories, but there's also people out there front and that they're they're more than and were more than what they really were.
And I just like I like the honesty, right, I guess.
So please continue.
Yeah, we didn't get all of the American part of the story yet, did we?
No, this was the first time I got high and I don't know why, but I'd smoked it before.
I mean, I'd smoked weed before.
Yeah, yeah.
But I think that's common for a lot of us.
Like the first time we we smoke, we don't quite know what to what we're what we're going to experience.
We don't know how much to smoke.
We don't really maybe sometimes don't know how how to inhale correctly at that point, depending on if we smoke cigarettes or not by that age.
And I think it's our brain just doesn't know how to process it.
So we don't understand the high.
So like it takes three or four times to where you're like, oh, this is comfortable, you know?
Yeah. Then you know what to expect.
Yeah, exactly.
That's great. You know, when the boys in the lab coats start talking about cannabinoid receptors, yeah, you know, from the endocannabinoid system, you think about the first time you flood those things with an external cannabinoid.
It's really cool because, you know, who knows, maybe maybe like the first time you do that, it's like, whoa, you know, your cannabinoids are all
yeah, personalizing them, right?
There's, you know, whoa, you know, they're really reacting to this flood of cannabinoids.
They don't know what to do with it.
Maybe they shut down.
Yeah. The first time.
Right. Maybe I'm blocking or something.
I'm just throwing this shit out there, man.
That stuff we were smoking had been through hell before it got to us.
So so if you write or have you heard of something called CHS out there?
Can I think it's cannabinoid hypermesis syndrome?
No, it's fairly new and it's something that they've been pushing like so I both my brother and my cousin have gone to the ER recently with some cyclic vomiting, kind of like I have to like it.
And they the nurses keep pushing this idea that it's from something called CHS cannabinoid hypermesis syndrome.
So it's something and I started doing research into it.
And one of my good friends is an ER doctor and he's a he's a smoker, too.
So he's been really researching this because he started having similar symptoms.
And from what they can tell early on, the research that they thought maybe it's from crops sprayed with neem oil.
Yeah. But they're not sure if that really is the case.
They're not sure if it's from, you know, heavy use of extracts, since a lot of people randomly use extracts with flour and it's just too much for our systems.
But whatever it is, it's inducing cyclical vomiting in people just like day after day after day of endless puking in people.
But they just don't know why.
And they call it cannabinoid hypermesis syndrome.
But realistically, it could be related to terpenes.
It could be related to an unknown or untested for cannabinoid.
You know, not THC, but it could be, you know, God knows what else.
But yeah, it's an interesting one that's going to be popping up more and more.
Yeah, maybe the presence of of foreign stuff and concentrates, I mean, none of this really happened until there was a legal market.
And, yeah, there's a lot of causation, you know, correlation, causation type stuff.
Yeah. Stuff.
Yeah. Probably going on.
But, you know, I did you talk to any of your family about the theory I talked with you about, about the effects of breathing superheated shit from butane torches?
No. So neither of them do that, but they they both are very heavy, like vape cartridge users, like the carts, like the isolate cart shit.
You remember the guy that used to measure that used to measure this mystery oil and all the available butane on the market?
Yes. Yeah. Yeah.
That guy. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah, I did.
I get frustrated with science these days because they all have these other agendas.
You know, it's just like, where's the money coming from?
Since you're familiar with all the Mexicans and everything, when you that Maui, the can of Maui, did it did it remind you?
Were there any Mexican traits to any similarity at all?
No, I never had cannabis like that before or since it had a real flowery.
You could feel the islands in it.
You could feel that tropical sunshine when you hit it.
I didn't get very much.
He I couldn't buy it.
It was too expensive.
But I would just kind of hang around when other people would buy it so I could taste it.
Yeah. Right. But yeah, that and there was there was other ones that was right about when we started seeing Indica and everybody was really impressed.
Oh, it tastes like black hash.
And yeah, it was a real narcotic high.
Yeah. But all I could really afford was the Mexicans.
Now, there were good Mexicans, but most of them were.
I don't know why they imported it, really.
I. Yeah, it was a transition period, you know, while markets were shaken out.
But, you know, that Colombo that we used to get imported.
Hell, man, half of that stuff was seeds.
So I was thinking about what we used to do with that stuff.
You know, people would just throw handfuls of that fresh Colombian seed out in their yard and just have big enough.
Yeah. Yeah.
I mean, it seemed like half the weight that got imported was seed and how tragic it was that we just, you know, there are none.
Yeah. Yeah. That's interesting what you just said about, you know, you were talking about how uplifting and clear the awoken was.
And, you know, the way you said it, you know, you know, the Colombian just wasn't like that.
It was, you know, people don't realize that.
Yeah, it was it was, you know, it was groggy was the way it felt a lot of times.
Is that a good word for it?
Yeah, but some of the real high quality, the golds were spiritual, man.
And some of the red bud was really, really good, but dirty, a little dirty at the end.
And it's not like an indica.
And if all you ever smoked was the was the low end stuff, you wouldn't recognize, you know, if that it had some of that same stuff that the high end had in it.
But it was just kind of buried under a layer of just, you know, bad handling and, you know, totally harsh.
Yeah. Yeah. It was.
Yeah, it was just crap, you know, but it had it was still there.
But you had to even recognize that you had to have had the good stuff at some point.
Say, oh, that's oh, it's in there.
You know. Anyway, sorry.
I'm sidetracking. No, that's that's fine.
I remember right when I came.
This is 1980.
I joined the military in 80 eventually.
But before that, I went I went back to Texas and I my brother, my cousin had this friend named Jay.
That was kind of a jock, kind of a sports guy.
And he needed somebody to ride with him from Dallas to Houston to pick up some Panama Red.
He said it was supposed to be real Panama Red.
And of course, I jumped on it, man.
I wanted to ride with him.
And we shot right down to Baytown.
And I remember he went into this real, real rough bar and tugboat.
And it was like a biker bar, man.
And people getting shot in there and everything.
But he bought the pound and we cruised on back to Dallas.
And like I said, I don't know if it was really Panama Red.
It seemed to me like it was just real good Colombian red.
But he was selling it back then that he was selling that for a hundred an ounce.
You know, it seems like the red maybe the red was all biker controlled or something.
I mean, I don't know.
I got more stories.
My my older brother was a wholesale dealer in 78.
And he was bringing in.
Truckloads of the Mexican shit, you know, the brick stuff.
But he also had a private stash.
And this is where I first saw California, since me.
And I saw a really good gold, really good Colombians.
This was the top of the line that he could get.
And I remember one time I asked him, I said, man, which is what is this?
Since a major, what is this stuff?
And he said, it's it's primo.
And he said, but this is better.
And he had some Colombian red, but and this stuff would make you feel
I can't describe it.
It just made fix you healed your body, healed your mind.
Yeah, it was really clean, really clean, you know, secondary and everything.
Of course, I also found out about cocaine from him, too.
That was also really clean, really pure.
Yeah. Well, he didn't know about it.
One morning I got up for school and I opened up the refrigerator
and all these little envelopes fall on the floor.
And I thought, what is this, man?
And I poured one out.
We had a big glass kitchen table and I poured it on the table.
And I said, what is this?
Next thing you know, I go to school and my friend, this girl that I wasn't
romantic with, but I guess she thought that she saw that.
And she said, we're not going to school today. Come on.
And we sniffed it all day, but that was she knew what to do with it.
Unfortunately, my brother got busted
there for not for he didn't have any drugs.
But the guy that he was running around with knew an undercover cop
and they were going to rob him.
My brother didn't know it.
My brother thought he was going to really make a sale.
And when they went to meet the cop,
the friend of my brother pulled out a pistol and killed him.
Oh, my God. And the woods were all wired with police.
And I didn't see my brother for about five years after that.
Well, except for my brother, who was he was like a rock star.
He thought he was like a rock star.
And yeah, he he would say, I was right.
This is 82, 882 is what? Yeah.
Yeah. See, I was in Europe right when the last of the great
import hash, you know, the Afghanis, the Paki's Lebanese.
We used to get red Lebanese that was like gum, like big red gum.
It was soft and you could bend it.
It was just we called it choking red.
It would light your lungs up.
Didn't they? There was rumors it was mixed with gum Arabic.
Oh, interesting. Yeah.
Interesting. That would light your lungs up, wouldn't it?
That was real soft.
Yeah, it could. Well, but it could also get hard as a rock, too.
I mean, if you got it soft and you were getting good stuff,
everything we got of that Lebanese and that was pretty much all
it was around where we were.
It was hard as a rock and it barely got you high.
And so it might have had CBD in it.
I mean, the black.
But no, no, no.
That Lebanese red. It was my golden red.
My experience is that
or from everything I've been able to gather is that like Europe
got the far better hash.
Canada got some sometimes some relatively decent hash.
And the United States and the United States got the got the shit
that stuck to your shoe.
They got the C grade and the D grade, everything that they couldn't sell
in Canada and Europe.
They were like, we'll send to America because they'll take anything.
So maybe you could talk about that for a second.
So you were in when you were in Europe, when you were stationed in Europe,
you got to experience a bunch of of hashish.
Oh, yes. I was stationed in an infantry battalion in bomb holder.
What was West Germany then?
And I mean, we were always out in the field.
I was in the infantry, so we were always camping out and all this shit.
But we would get what they call a plate,
a plate was about two hundred dollars and it was one hundred grams.
And or we get a piece and a piece would be twenty dollars,
but it could be one gram or three grams.
And this was all in the barracks.
You know, this is all with our service guys.
No Germans or anything.
No, you're in tests for cannabis back then, right?
Pardon me? No, you're in tests for cannabis back then.
No, but that's when they started and that's when, you know, I
I found out then that the military frowned on this behavior.
Had you told me was that not right?
It was did I do something wrong?
And it was like because nobody's seen weed there.
None of the Germans, nobody had weed.
We were selling it for twenty five dollars a joint.
This guy was selling joints for twenty five dollars
and I was buying a hundred dollars, man, I was like, yeah.
But it was excellent.
I go into some of the the the
gas house, you know, where they have the bar and all this stuff.
And I just light one up because the smell was so different.
It didn't smell like hash.
They would smoke it publicly.
What did it smell like?
Smell like Colombian.
Yeah. Damn it.
That's not helpful, Ryder.
You didn't know what Matt was saying the whole time about.
I don't know what I don't know.
You guys are talking about this mystery magic.
And, you know, it's like you can see something I can't see.
You got to give them something to something to bite into, man.
What did it smell, taste? Come on, man.
Well, gentlemen, I'm going to tell you something right now that
that you will experience that taste and you will experience it
pretty soon because I'm I've been growing it.
I know how to cure it.
I know how to do everything. Now it's legal.
I must send you some.
Oh, you're stockpiling it like a prepper down there, huh?
I mean, one thing, you know, when we had our little gathering recent
when we had our little gathering recently or whatever,
one of the clear things that comes up is you can get people
that have been in cannabis their whole life
and describing taste and aroma is almost everyone's weak point.
You know, you're like, what does it taste like?
What does it smell like?
And to you, you could be like, oh, this reminds me of 1978
or this smells clearly like what I remember.
Yeah. But if you try to piece together what that smell is,
the language is insufficient. Yeah.
There's a special language for that stuff.
And, you know, it's and some of it is just experiential.
You know, like when you talk about baby poo, I think you were saying the other day
not so about the smell of baby poo. Yeah.
People think that this is some, you know, some other way to say skunk
or that they're imagining something that they see on a toilet paper
after they do their business.
But it's not it, man. It's a holes.
It's a if you've never had a kid or been around little babies,
you know, you don't you'll never smell that smell anywhere.
That is no frame of reference to me. Yeah.
I had three kids in four years.
So the smell of young kid baby poo is is pretty, pretty.
You know, that was that was daily life for quite some time.
And it triggers and it triggers emotional, you know, memory response to,
you know, that smell.
It's all connected to the whole thing.
Like, I'm a daddy, you know.
But yeah, so I mean, Red, we can do better than that, right?
I mean, so you're talking about gold sandalwood is is
is, you know, one of those woody smells.
I get this.
OK, the the really blonde gold
to me had a sandalwood incense
burnt, almost caramel, almost sweet, but not sweet.
And it was really good.
It had a different flavor on the exhale that was that was kind of addictive.
You'd want to taste it again and again.
And the the ones like the purples, they didn't have a fruity flavor
or smell like you think looking at it, but it would have more like, again,
a woody but not cedar, more like just a
a wood wood incense taste.
And the Reds were very cedar tasting with a delicious
I can't say it's like a burnt malt almost.
You know, it is.
And burnt malt like a like a long wood.
All right, we're cutting in and out again.
40, 30.
Sorry, hey, hey.
So, yeah, you got laggy again and then I tried to talk.
So, hey, that burnt malt is that like a loamy kind of a peat?
But but let me tell you, when I was growing up in Texas,
my my uncle was really wealthy and
I had two cousins and one was a little bit older than I was.
And the other one was my age.
But my uncle, when we got summer vacation,
that was just time we had to go to work for him.
And he owned this big property was very close to DFW Airport.
And it was our job to mow them.
And I don't mean with a lawnmower.
I mean, with a four cutter tractor.
And it was extremely hot, man.
I mean, no shade, nothing.
You were out there 12 hours, sun up, sun down.
And a lot of times they go when we didn't have something to cut.
My my aunt and uncle would leave early for work and we'd get up
and one more and go sit out on the front porch and smoke a cigarette, smoke
cigarettes. And one morning I was I just got up and I went outside
and the air conditioning.
I have never been in in in really hot climate
and you're in the air conditioning to go outside.
And at first it feels good, you know, like I'm getting warm.
Yeah, I think.
OK. But I was sitting out there
and I had my Marlboro red and I was smoking it with my cousin, the same age as me.
And my older cousin came out and said, hey, man, roll a joint.
He threw me a bag, a little bit of a baggy.
And I opened it up and I said, what the fuck is this?
It was yellow.
I mean, it wasn't green at all.
There was no green or brown in it.
It was yellow. It was real Colombian gold.
What are you talking about? Powder?
Was it was it flakes?
No, it was strings, chunks, nugs.
What would it look like?
You know, it didn't look real pretty, but it was just the color of it.
And full of seeds, just like the Mexican.
But it wasn't real hard compressed.
It was like flat buds.
So it was busted up, but it had been pressed.
Yeah, it had been pressed and I guess he had broken it up.
But and it was only about a gram and a half.
It wasn't very much.
Cool. And I told him, I said, I don't think there's a joint here.
And he said, bullshit, man.
He said he sat down and rolled a pin joint.
You guys know that word pin joint. Yeah, man.
Little tiny like in the Cheech and Chong movie.
That's a toothpick, man. No, that's a joint. Yeah.
But we sparked that up.
And let me tell you, I got a little bit more some words,
more adjectives to describe the taste and smell.
But this had a cardboard, almost like a cardboard Coca-Cola.
And it had a hash taste similar to the Lebanese blonde.
Yeah. Oh, interesting.
Yeah. And it was a really, really different taste.
And I mean, the the Mexican we got had no terpenes.
It was like, hey, it tastes like grass, really grass.
That hashing. I remember that.
That hashing.
This is why I keep asking people if they think that there might be indica in
in Colombian gold, you know, Santa Marta or whatever,
because it was very real that it was hashy.
Keep going. And it was heavy.
It had a it had a more I'll go into that later
because there's something I'd like to talk about how the these
heirlooms Colombians a turd.
And I believe that happened about 150 years ago.
They weren't indigenous.
Sweet. But anyway, so we I took one hit off of that
and this is where we get the expression expand, though, because it got in your lungs
and man, you couldn't hold it in.
You got it out, cough it out.
And next thing I know, I was higher than you could.
I have ever been in my life.
I mean, I my eyes, everything were trashed.
And my uncle called and said we had to go out and cut this pasture.
And I said, man, I I can't do it.
I'm too far.
Have to go work now.
My cousin was like, come on, smoke some more.
You'll be all right.
Power through. Yeah.
But the thing is, my uncle took us out in the middle of nowhere
with the tractor on the trailer and and he gave us a cooler.
And I thought there'd be, you know, Gatorade or something like that.
But it was Coors Coors beer was before cell phones.
So if anything happened, you were walking back.
Yeah. Yeah. If you cut your hand off or something,
we drank we drank all that beer and got so drunk, man.
I mean, just absolutely wasted.
But by four o'clock, the sun was I mean, it was a terrible hangover.
Yeah, I bet. And we smoked the rest of that.
We didn't finish that little pin joint.
We smoked the other half of it at the end of the day and trashed me again.
I remember my uncle gave us a little 38 caliber revolver
in case there was a snake or something, you know.
I remember smoking that joint and I was looking at my other cousin going,
you know, how to dance, boy.
Oh, no. Yeah.
The kid's revolver.
Yeah. Kingpin from an early age. Right.
But but that was when I first had good, good Colombian.
There was other Colombian before that that I tried.
But it wasn't like this.
This was really different.
And I believe I do believe that there's indica in it.
Oh, sweet. Finally, somebody to agree with me on this crap that was there.
I mean, the taste sure the taste sure suggested, right?
And the hash flavor, the hit.
The hit was just boom.
And look, I said, remember, I simplified
Indica, right?
I mean, I don't want to hurt, you know, I mean, wide leaf indica, all these things.
I'm sorry. Keep going. So remember when?
Now, in the in the late 20s,
there were several pharmaceutical companies that came through La Jolla
here in Santa Marta and the peninsula, La Jolla here.
That's easy. And one of them was Bayer.
Bayer was a pharmaceutical company.
That's easy. And one of them was Bayer.
And what they brought with them, this is all factual.
This all really happened.
And they brought with them what was called Indian hemp.
And this was indica from India.
Are there pictures of what several years they had developed one of the strongest
cannabinoid producing plants that had ever been discovered up till then,
even better than in India.
Yeah. But at the same time,
that was right when marijuana was demonized in the United States and all
cannabis medicine was pulled.
You know, they in the beginning of the 30s, they they started.
So they all pulled out all these pharmaceutical companies.
But the campesinos, the Colombians, they kept the seeds.
And they kept growing it, you know.
And by the late 50s, early 60s, they had a product that was superior, man.
I mean, this shit would knock you on your ass now.
And that's when they started exporting.
What part of the country was kind of the epicenter for this?
Well, this this from what I understand was all in on the coast, Santa Marta and La Guajilla,
which is a peninsula that goes out close to Venezuela.
Now, when I've thrown this out to people before, they said,
you know, Santa Marta is an unlikely place for a big pharma company to go
locate an operation like this.
You know, they're big businesses do things big business way.
He just said it didn't seem to click right with that.
What do you think about that?
Well, I believe it's pretty much a fact and is documented that they were in Santa Marta.
I don't know if they actually have.
Yeah, I don't know that the plantations there.
Let me tell you the Santa Marta, this this entire Cordella that goes up,
it's the highest coastal range in the world.
It goes from sea level up to 20 something thousand feet.
Snow-capped mountains.
Yeah, there's a million microclimates there and it's inaccessible.
It's still very remote to go there.
You have to hike in and everything else.
So I can see there and La Guajilla, you know, that's where they were exporting all the gold.
They were they were actually using tractors to to farm the cannabis there.
Oh, wow.
Yeah.
So it's nothing contrasted with Afghanistan, you know, or India.
I don't know, you know, the climate.
I'm just wondering how how how much selection pressure the difference in the climate really
placed on these foreign strains that they brought there.
You know what what what survived, what thrived in the new new world.
Right.
And how did that turn out looking 20 years later?
And was it by the hand of man or, you know, were these things that was it done in two
crosses and then sat in a freezer?
I mean, because that happens a lot.
It does.
Yeah.
Yeah.
From my experience of growing here, environment's everything.
I mean, genetics are a good 50 percent, but the other 50 percent is the environment.
And I've taken a clone, the same clone, and brought it down 500 meters to a different
location, very, very close to the original, but 500 meters down, totally different plant.
Yeah.
Totally different morphology.
I mean, it still has what I what I did with was my it's a train wreck Panama that I really
like. And I grew up alone in Zipicon and I took another clone down to Kachupai, which
is down in the valley, about 500 meters lower.
And the guy grew it for me and we compared buds and everything.
And it was different, is really different.
Wow.
That's wild.
Like, did you get to see the difference in the the leaf width?
The morphology?
Well, yeah.
Yeah.
No, I really can't say there was a difference in that, but they were shorter and swatter
the higher up it went and the lower you go down, the more they try to get bigger and
bushier.
See, I could grow right now at a much lower elevation and it'd probably be a lot easier,
but the pathogens and the insects are and I don't want to live there.
I don't want to live with my fucking kids.
Yeah, I could understand that.
Yeah.
That's that's a big part of it, right?
Why you went down there and everything.
Absolutely.
Still is.
I'm still looking for that perfect that just that niche, you know, perfect.
Topology is very important.
Columbia is like Mexico.
It's really, really mountainous.
Is there bamboo?
Are they like big?
We could build a giant bamboo freaking like master command center kind of jutting out
of a hillside, all canilevered and stuff, you know, with big, big support beams.
And we'd have a view of the whole valley underneath us.
And the sound of, you know, like bongo drums would be playing in the background nonstop.
And the smoke would waft through the air.
Oh, yeah.
But occasionally you'd run into other kinds.
Tie in particular tie stick.
I never owned a tie stick, but I smoked a little bit of it.
And there was a bunch of good Mexicans, Jamaican.
We used to get real Jamaican that was pretty good at first.
Real seedy brown, but had a had a really uplifting, clean high.
All right.
We'll put a time put a timestamp on that because, you know, when was it good and then it wasn't
good.
What can you help us with that?
It was good around when I first tried it around 77.
It was pretty good.
It was good.
It's better than maybe or equal to good Colombian.
And by 1982, when I returned to the United States, it was shit, man.
It wasn't it was all seeds.
It wasn't any good.
Yeah.
Eighty two and later.
Right.
Yeah.
And 82 is when I started really seeing since the media, the Colombian was pretty much gone.
It was all sense of me.
I seem to remember a story about that.
The Colombians started using Jamaica as a waypoint for smoke or somebody in South America
started using Jamaica as a stopover point for smuggling powders into the US.
And it really changed the whole environment.
Maybe maybe your supply line of of the good stuff from the island was just interrupted
and that it still existed there.
But you guys just weren't getting it.
That's always a possibility, right?
Well, like I said, I had a very limited I I didn't know big like mad jag.
I didn't know big people like that.
I just know people on the streets, users, regular guy.
It's that's how I picture it anyway.
So don't spoil it with any of that.
Let me tell you a quick, quick story about bamboo and in catch you by.
What are we going to do, man?
We're caught.
You're caught.
What's caught by catch you by is lower elevation than Zipicon.
It's on the same road.
It's on the same.
It's a Camino Real.
It's an ancient road, Spanish road.
Sweet.
So that's out of the out of the below the cloud layer.
Yes, this is this is below that cloud layer.
Now you're getting down into about 1500 meters, where Zipicon is up around 2000 meters.
And Bogota is 2700 meters.
So it's going up.
You're going up this giant plateau.
Wow.
Wow.
When how far how far in?
Preferably in miles, because I don't understand kilometers a bit because I'm a dumb American.
But but how far from Bogota are you when you're talking about Zipicon from like Bogota miles wide?
Well, everything's about two hours distance.
OK, that's helpful.
But two hours like driving up a mountain that's crazy roads or?
Well, maybe one hour of it.
The other we have really good Autobahn quality roads here, really highway super highways.
It's when you get into the road that goes from the main highway down to Zipicon that
it starts getting to be like a real twisty.
Now, I mean, it's it's safe, but there's always rock slides and.
It's safe.
Don't worry about it.
Just the rocks slides.
No poison spiders.
Are there are there like a lot of poison spiders down there?
Because Australia is filled with those things.
So.
Now I got bit by some kind of spider and Zipicon got sick and went to the doctor.
They give me some kind of antihistamine that almost gave me a heart attack.
No, I never see them very much because I'm up in altitude where I am.
There's no flies, no spiders.
It's clean, beautiful, temperate climate.
See, Matt, this guy's got it figured out.
I know.
Yeah, that's how long the first thing I asked him.
What it wasn't about the safety.
It was how bad are the insects?
I'm terrified of insects.
I can take humans I'm OK with.
I can deal with that.
They suck, man.
It's an army.
They're marching the earth right now.
They have a plan.
You know, we don't even notice it's happening around us because their timeline is just completely
different from humans.
But yeah, pretty soon we're all going to realize it's too late.
They're also edible.
They are edible.
They better watch us.
Yeah.
But let me tell you this about this adventure with Ruth.
Ruth is my Colombian partner here, business partner.
And one day we were going to get bamboo for the plant supports, you know, so we could
tie the plants up with it.
And we go to Cachupin and she starts talking to this guy, random guy on the street.
And he's like, yeah, man, I know where the bamboo is, you know, so he hops in the truck
and we start going down the valley and he says, keep going, keep going.
We're passing this store, passing that store.
Now suddenly we're in the middle of this giant bamboo grove.
It's all bamboo.
And he jumps.
We were looking for a store to buy it, you know.
No, man, I'll chop it down for you.
He chopped the whole truck.
Look at the sores.
Yeah.
Wow.
Handpicked.
Only the good stuff.
How big was it?
How big was it?
I'm just curious what, you know.
Well, it's not actually bamboo.
It's some other plant that's similar to bamboo that grows here, but it was about that big
in diameter.
It was a good size tubes.
Yeah, that's no joke.
Wow.
But it was a fun adventure because this guy was like, kept saying we were going.
I just wondered where the hell is this guy taking us, man?
Well, speaking of where is he taking us?
It seems like you've taken us to Columbia already.
How did we get there?
I mean, just timeline in it, right?
That's how we're going to be chopping things around.
Yeah.
Are they doing big indoor operations down there?
And is that affordable?
Like kilowatt hour price?
Yeah.
I mean, they have.
Oh, yeah.
The reason cannabis, foreign cannabis companies come here is to exploit the people.
Because here the people work for $100 a month, and that's a pretty good rate.
Yeah.
The electricity is real cheap here.
God, how blind, you know, I mean, how big, big industry rolls into, you know, the hot
bed of cannabis in the world, you know, besides Thailand, probably right now, and they ignore
the natural treasure that lives only there and see it just as another resource pit to
be steamrolled.
Exploitation.
What a nightmare.
Like every commodity.
Okay, but let me tell you what they do.
There's a big German company, GNW Laboratories, right here in Piper.
And they have, I don't know, I guess it's about 10 acres of greenhouses.
And what they do is run non psychoactive, and it's all on hydro hydroponics in greenhouses.
It's set up.
Hold on, they're growing hemp with hydro in greenhouses?
Wait.
Oh, my God.
Well, it's non psychoactive.
It's to me, it's hemp, but it's yeah, that's yeah.
It's like candy dog.
Okay, yeah, Harlequin and ACDC.
Harlequin, all the what's the other one?
Charlotte's Web, all those.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
These are, these are ones I don't want to work with.
And I don't really even like I have many of them.
And I don't really want to grow any more of it.
No, yeah.
But that here's the kicker.
When I went there, they're all wanting me to help them and everything.
And I'm doing the tour.
I'm wearing this, this HEPA suit or something, you know, with all this stuff on.
And yeah, and I really didn't like it.
And they said, Okay, here's where we do our drying.
We put it in the drying oven for 24 hours.
And I looked at them, drying oven?
What the fuck, dude?
Yeah.
And this young, young Colombian guy comes out, he's in the scientist outfit.
And I said, What are you doing, man?
Don't you understand?
Heat destroys all those beautiful, volatile terpenes and things.
And he had no concept of that.
Well, he does.
He did after he talked to you.
Yeah, well, now, now that's changed.
And they've gone to dry freezing.
Which I think is a very better change because they're getting it.
But it's still non psychoactive.
It's all CBD.
Yeah. And it's all sitting in a warehouse.
They haven't sold one gram.
Yeah.
Sounds like the United States.
Coming, coming to a gas station near you.
Yeah, exactly.
It's like, when I when I did that big hemp reversal, and got to go out to the big fields
and stuff and see what they did with the end product.
It was literally tossed in fields of dirt with goat heads in it just piled up.
Not even in crates, just dirt on the dirt.
And they just had people come scoop it up, turn it into isolate, move it on.
And biomass.
I was just, I was mind blown how it was kept not even in crates in the dirt, just in the
dirt out in the open fields just to get everything.
It's gross.
That's why I have no interest in big, big operations.
I don't want to be involved.
I don't want to talk to those people.
What I enjoy is growing the best that I can and teaching the young people I know how to
do what I do.
It's a completely different craft, in my opinion.
Like it's a totally different.
It, they're almost unrelated, except that they happen to work with a similar plant.
When you come, when you come and see me and you smoke with me, you'll know the difference.
You'll know what I'm, you'll, you'll see the light.
I can tell you, I can draw you pictures, send you videos, but do you hit that?
Do you hit it with me?
That's the only way to truly tell.
It really is.
Hey, Matt, I've got a question about, you know, the emerging Colombian commercial scene,
right?
So they're, they're, I assume, right.
They're going to start having dispensaries and stuff pop up and it's, and retail, you
know, it's going to become a retail product, you know, fancy packaging and everything like
it does everywhere else to fill our landfills.
But so Matt, I mean, you saw it out in California.
I'm sure you have some thoughts about the dispensaries as the kind of taste maker, the
opinion shaper for in a commercial legal recreational market like that, you know, do people just
buy what they're pointed to when they walk into the store?
Yes.
And is it all just about looks and nothing about effect?
Nothing.
Like, am I-
Contemplation.
Yeah.
In California, the way I've always seen it work, and I've been to a lot of different
places in a lot of different cities, even, even in Colorado and Oregon, it's a bud tender
who has zero experience or knowledge, in my opinion, I've never met.
It's so rare, unless it's like a friend that I've had, like kind of put into a dispensary
that I know knows their stuff.
And that's so rare, but I just never really just on occasion met someone that really knew
what they were talking about.
I'd say, oh, you want a hybrid?
But even if they-
Oh, you want to be sleepy?
Get a hybrid.
Are they even going to have anything though?
I mean, would they even have in their-
They wouldn't know.
I mean, even if they did, they wouldn't know.
A 14, 16 week flower.
No, they wouldn't have that.
There's no way.
There's no way because they'd be paying too much.
Nobody grows that here.
So, I mean, how does Columbia do it different?
What kind of changes could, I mean, if you had it to do over again, Matt, you've seen
it up close and personal.
I mean, how would, can it be done differently to, and this seems like a sidetrack, but I
think Red has kind of a vested interest in this stuff and you've got knowledge and experience.
So, you know, I don't know that I would be the right person to ask on how to do it different
because I'm such a pessimist, but I'm interested in Red's opinion on how he would do it different
than what he said.
Well, first of all, recreational or personal use is not legal here, but it is.
You can have up to 20 grams.
It's just not commercialized, not regulated, but you can have 20 grams of weed.
You can have five grams of hash legally, but the laws have not changed and what they
consider more than 19 plants is micro-trafficking that you're selling it micro.
Right.
But I think it's going to follow where you are.
I think it's going to be because they love California.
They're always looking at the laws there.
They're always modeling things after up there.
That is so scary because it's just like what we realized or what I realized really early
on being from the grower side was that the more corporate it got, the more legal or quasi-legal
it looked for people to be able to smoke while they're still trying to push through these
like THC percent max out type things in the background.
But they made it more illegal or more easy to tax the shit out of you if you grow and
took the ability for you to produce your own medicine for free at home away from you.
And people like the idea of just being able to go buy it as an end product more than they
like the idea of being able to grow it because it just seems like a lot to do.
But in the end, I think it's a big loss for everyone to go that route.
Well, remember, remember too, though, that here it's a lot different.
I mean, you can flower year round.
You don't have to set up lights.
You don't have to put a lot of effort into growing it like that.
But I don't want to offend.
I have more respect for Colombians than the Colombians themselves.
But the thing about them is they like fads.
They like the you know, they want to do what you're doing.
You know, they want to do what's going on in New York and stuff.
So a lot of it's you can go now.
They have dispensaries where you can go and you can walk in and buy weed legally.
Yeah.
I will not legally, but you know, you can buy it.
It's real.
You can go to any any open market where they have potatoes and corn and you can buy weed there, too.
That's awesome.
Did they get messed up a lot?
You just buy the plant and take it home.
You don't even break it down.
Just jump in the taxi.
I've done that many times.
Whole plant hanging out the window.
Does the police or government mess with people a lot or try to tax them at that point when they
see it or how does that work?
Well, mostly they get you when you're moving.
You know, like if you go to a bus station or if you go on a
taxi's cars, that's how they get you.
But in your house, I've never had anybody come in my house.
Uh, I don't want to get myself in trouble, but I've grown a lot more than 20 plants in my house.
And yeah, I mean, I've had police come in and say, wow, you have some beautiful plants, man.
But yeah, I hope it changes.
And they're right now.
I don't know if you know it, but if you look at the news, they're having these big cannabis
marches because they want the new president to sign into law the what they call adult use.
And that's just regulated.
And they're pushing him because they want they want it to be here like it is everywhere.
And we're working real hard together right now to actually find another thing in that
microclimate that I deem is perfect and getting it all set up.
The thing is, is so much with the regulations and all this money she's having to spend to be able to
get the licensing.
I bet.
Well, we've been working five years, five years on this project.
And wow.
Yeah.
But it's coming together, man.
I'm telling you, I've got the genetics.
All I got to do is find the right place and boom, I'm there.
Wow.
Yeah, that's amazing.
We can export seeds now.
I mean, if you've got a place, a licensed place that can receive them, I can send you.
Uh, of course, I don't have any Colombian seeds right now.
But what I work, my work at the Finca is licensed to sell.
Gotcha.
Of course, probably got to get you and Matt down here to help me feminize them.
Yeah, I can teach.
That's very easy to do.
If you hear a groaning sound, it's the internet of people all trying to reach Red in Colombia
right now to order some seeds.
I know.
Trying to find his web address.
Yeah, the tubes are being clogged with all the demand flooding through to.
I'm not trying to sell seeds, really.
I'm not trying to sell anything.
I'm just saying that we are now able to do that legally.
We have some licensing.
You may want to clarify what would be involved with doing that.
You know, I mean, it's not, you know, that any 16 year old, you know, can take a can
go to his car from high school and order seeds with his cell phone from your website and have
you know, with his mom's credit card.
I mean, this isn't how it would work, right?
It's you, you're licensed.
The receiving party would also have to be licensed as a hemp facility in the United
States and the certificate of authority, all that stuff, right?
It's a tractor.
Yeah, we have all that.
We have all that and it's got to be below 0.03 THC to import into the United States
now.
Yeah.
Okay.
So, I mean, and now, okay, I was just going to say, is this the stuff that gives you the
erection?
Well, it doesn't say that on the label, but.
First encounter what you would classify or call either creepy, creepy.
How do you pronounce it?
What is it?
Creepy.
Creepy.
Well, like with a, in Spanish, Y is spelled with an I.
Creepy.
Okay.
So, how was it actually spelled down there?
C-R-I-P-P-I.
There we go.
Okay.
And when did you first encounter the creepy?
Well, what happened?
This is a pretty interesting story.
I was a teacher at a high school in Bogota.
This was 2012, right at the beginning of 2012.
When I came back in 2011, I bought a pound of the same good brown Colombian.
Okay.
$20 for the pound.
But when I started teaching at the school, my contact, I still have this guy too.
I've known this guy since 2004.
Jorge, you can get me anything, any kind of drug I want.
Good friend.
Good friend.
Yeah.
For real.
He's a good guy though.
Really nice, mellow guy.
I love this guy.
That's awesome.
But I called him up, man.
I said, man, can you bring me an LB?
Can you bring me a pound?
And he said, hey, I got something better, but you can't buy a pound of it.
I don't have a pound of it.
And I thought, oh, what is it?
Gold or Punta Rojo or what, man?
Because he got those before.
Yeah.
And I met him on the street because my wife, even after all these years, wouldn't let him
come in our house.
But I met him on the street.
He said, James, it opens up this newspaper.
He had it wrapped in newspaper.
And it was pretty.
It was seedless, sensimilla indica.
Oh, wow.
And not pressed.
It wasn't like it is now.
This was beautiful.
White Widow is what he called it.
And it looked like White Widow.
Yeah.
And it was quite a bit more expensive, but I went ahead and bought it.
It was about 2,000 gram.
Wow.
Where the other was 2,000 a half pound or 10,000 a half a pound.
Yeah.
But anyway, so I bought some.
And at first I liked it, man.
It was really good.
The next time I got it, he said, this is skunk number one.
And he'd never, he's never heard.
He doesn't know these names, man.
Yeah, yeah.
And it was beautiful.
I have photos of it.
Beautiful, dark green with red hairs going through it.
Real flowery smell.
Yeah.
Up high.
I guess was skunk number one.
Okay.
Okay.
Then it changed.
Then it changed.
I started getting it from another guy and it was these big clumps.
Like a big hard clump of compressed or vacuum bagged.
Again, indica bud.
Yeah.
Completely seedless.
No, I guess it was like beasters.
Gotcha.
And that was the creepy.
And pretty soon I didn't like it that much.
Although I bought it because I wasn't growing at the time.
Yeah.
I did find one seed.
I found a seed in it.
Normally I never have found seeds.
So if you have seeds, you're lucky.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But what year did you first encounter it?
Okay.
When I first saw creepy, it was the beginning of 2012.
Interesting.
Because that's about the time that I got those seeds sent up.
I was like, I wonder if this is the same guy.
Because it was on Mr. Nice, same era.
And the guy, when he sent it to me, he spelled it creepy.
And I was like, I don't know.
I'd never heard of that.
And then later on, I saw another Colombian spelled C-R-I-P-I.
And I was like, oh my God, maybe the dude was right.
Are you sure he wasn't just calling you creepy?
That's very possible.
This is a common nickname for me.
Well, you kind of came across that way in some of those posts.
And, you know, the males might've been in the, the seeds might've been in the mail
before he kind of realized, hey, this guy's kind of creepy.
And he said, here's some creepy for you.
Yeah.
Yeah.
This is possible.
You're creepy.
I said some creepy things.
But creepy is outdoor grown.
It's grown in all over Columbia.
Antioquia, Kauka, even, even up in near Cartagena.
And let me tell you, I don't, I, I'm naturally against it and don't like it because number
one, I don't smoke a lot of Indica.
Number two, it's commercial.
And yeah.
And it gives me a bad effect, a negative effect.
It does me.
Yeah.
But in Cartagena, when I bought a nice chunk of it, it was excellent, man.
It was, it was uplifting.
It was a really a good, but it looked just like the other Indica clump, but it had a
stellar high brought some back with me from Cartagena two years ago.
And I also got some in Santa Marta that was, it wasn't the same as what I had in Cartagena.
So real, real quick, I'm sorry, Matt, the these guys, they're, it's industrial.
They're, they're, they're growing for profit.
You know, what, what, how are they about chemicals and pesticides and stuff like that?
I mean, are you getting a clean product with this or what is it?
Full of chemicals.
Oh yeah.
No flushing either.
I mean, it burns black.
What a lot of it burns back now there, there, it varies.
There's a bunch of different types of it, but the real shitty stuff burns black and
has a chemi taste and they all use pesticide chemicals.
They have to.
Yeah.
It makes sense.
So would you say, cause I know people are going to be yelling at me if I don't pin you down on it.
Would you say that Krippy is something like, and this is just what I'm hearing you say,
but maybe you can tell me if I'm wrong.
It's some sort of commercial, probably Dutch import type like skunk one or one of those
types.
And any of them will do.
It's just a non Columbian based, Afghani based type plant grown there.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Same thing like they did in Mexico.
I mean, exactly.
Okay.
These aren't happy growers that are doing, these are people that are hand to mouth.
I mean, they're doing it for survival and they don't even give a fuck about the genetics or
anything.
Exactly.
Buy trays of clones, put them out and it's a, it's cartel weed.
It's, it's the people that bring you cocaine, make this shit.
Yeah.
And so when do you think, from people you've spoken to, when do you think that term Krippy
first started getting used or applied to weed like that?
Well, see, I left Columbia in the summer of 2007 and went back to Georgia.
Uh, and, and when I left, there wasn't any creepy.
And when I came back, that's when it was there.
And I came back in 2011 and it was there then.
Gotcha.
I don't know when it happened.
I bet it probably happened 2008, 2009.
Interesting.
Yeah.
But it's, it's some of it's good, some of it's bad, but when you live in Columbia and
you smoke, you should be growing your own weed.
You know what I mean?
It sounds like it.
That's like going to a prostitute when you're married to Lonnie Anderson, you know?
Yeah.
That's who would have popped into my head too.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Charo.
Why not?
You know, I, I don't know if you want to get into it now, but you know, I lived with
Kiki from CamelBioGen.
I lived with him here for three years.
Also known as Charlie, Charlie Garcia.
Yeah.
That's his onstage name or something.
But I'm hoping we can send out some good vibes to him because I understand.
I don't talk to him anymore, but my wife still does.
And he's in the hospital.
He was really sick.
I don't know what it is, but I hope he's all right.
He was always super cool to me.
He, since I started, he's always been super cool.
Even when a lot of people wouldn't talk to me, he was one of the first people that had
a really, what I considered a larger seed company that, that would talk to me and that
was a serious breeder.
So yeah, shout out to him.
Hopefully he is doing.
I believe he was the, I believe he was the first Spanish seed bank.
Yeah.
That's very possible.
We were reading a book.
Do you know who Isidoro Rodriguez is?
No.
It's someone that started Cannabiogen with Charlie Garcia.
That's all I know.
But he wrote books about like the breeding behind like Sandstorm and Jitral and stuff
like that.
Wow.
I, I, he probably know, I probably know him with a different name.
Probably, probably.
Yeah.
Because you know, that's really my, I was, I've been talking to him since 06 at least.
Yeah.
Hold on, you mean your parents did not name you Red Rider?
No.
Okay.
So these are not real names.
He, he, well, I mean, I don't know, like, like, you know, him as Charlie Garcia and
Kaiji, but that's not his name at all.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's not his real name.
And of course I won't divulge that.
But anyway, he used to send me, you might've heard of Red Snake, the, the Oaxacan Punta
Rojo cross.
Yeah.
How was that?
Oh man.
I got better, but that was excellent.
But that never got out publicly.
He wouldn't sell that or Mestiza, which, which is another one I really like.
Mestiza, which one was that?
That was the Oaxacan.
Mestiza is Oaxacan and Michoacan.
And it is.
Yeah, Michoacan.
Now how do you spell that?
Cause I think you're saying Mextiza with a T is that, is that right?
Or is it?
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Gotcha.
Now I saw that for sale for, I saw that for sale for years.
That, that was on the market.
Yeah.
The Mextiza was, there was a Meximelia too from another company.
It was like a Oaxacan Burmese.
That doesn't mean that what you've got is the same thing as what went on the market
though, right?
That's very true.
Yeah.
Cause a lot of the stuff like would be like, uh, whatever he worked cross to like a Malawi,
you know what I mean?
Like to put it into seed market form.
I mean, his, his personal collection would likely be the, you know, the.
God, can you imagine?
Can you read that?
Tuscanty.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The old Tuscanty.
Oh five.
Whoa.
Yeah.
What else?
What else?
What else you got?
I mean, I've got all that's like the dog's got the scent, you know, he's going to track that thing.
Oh, but we did a lot and he brought a lot of stuff with him that we never got to really
finish.
Here's a bunch of a Mongo Beach, a, that we were working with.
Monk.
Well, I was going to read that.
Well, I tell you, Ruth, my partner has gotten spent so much time with the health department,
the agriculture department, the justice ministry that she's really well connected with them.
And she knows exactly what's legal and exactly what's not.
And I, I, I put a lot of faith in everything she says.
Of course I do what I want to do too.
Yeah.
Well, you're different.
You're a different part of the operation.
And, you know, it seems to me that if anybody's going to be successful in this, in the legal
cannabis world, you've got to have somebody in the organization that's focused on that interface
with the regulators, with government.
And who doesn't, you know, who, who can actually do that kind of work and, and be successful with
it?
You know, I mean, some people can, can do it.
Other people hate that kind of work and avoid it at all costs.
Not pointing any fingers here, but I think there may be three people here who probably
feel that way.
So it's great that you got that partner, you know, you complimentary skills, teaming up.
You're the visionary.
You know, when you see it, you know how to do it.
She's, she's handling the part that you're not good at and you're doing the part she's
not.
So that's awesome.
Well, I, I want to really give a good recommendation to her because she, she listens to me
and, and, and under, not just listens to me, but understands.
And a lot of people hear you, but they don't understand you.
She understands me and understands what I want to do and believes in it.
And that we feed off each other like that, or I feel like that.
Well, that's good.
It's like constant roadblocks and interruptions to your, to your, you know, your dreams.
Right.
So those things are, can, can be demotivating and depressing.
And a lot of people quit right before they get to the finish line.
So.
Oh yeah.
Partnerships or marriages too, you know, like they really are like marriages are very
important.
Communication's important.
And when you're in a serious business relationship with someone, it's like a marriage that you
can't just leave because there's responsibilities.
There's all kinds of commitments that you have to each other whether financial or otherwise.
And it's yeah, it's, you have to take it serious like that.
And, and when one of the partners is just a complete prick, it's, it's almost unlivable,
unmanageable.
And when someone can actually hear you and you can communicate with them, that's, that's
usually someone you stick with for as long as you can.
I'm trying my best, man.
I really don't appreciate you bringing out our dirty laundry here.
I mean, I'm really trying.
Hey, can I put a, okay.
That's mostly what I work with is channel biology and ACE.
That's cool.
Very, very cool.
Are you still close with Dubie?
Actually not close at all, but I think the world of him, he's my, my best friend if he
ever wanted to be.
Yeah.
I love their work.
Uh, he sent me a bunch of seeds one time and man, I've been growing those ever since he
sent them about four years ago.
What's your favorite from their, their stock?
Oh, Malawi.
Malawi, the ACE Malawi.
Very good.
It is.
If you ever, if you ever come see me or you, we get together, you'll, you'll try it down
here.
It's when I want to think when I want to be inspired, motivated, uh, I smoke that.
Nice.
Um, have you done it and have you made any cobs down there from it?
Absolutely.
And I also make the, uh, you know, I learned this from icing mag, but I also make, uh,
make it with the Colombians and it brings back that musty earthy.
It's the only place you find it.
Yeah.
We were talking about that, that smell.
Um, the other day I mentioned, uh, Pete and loam.
Yeah.
You know, it was a four.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Down in there.
So the color changes and it's, uh, looks just like the old stuff, but no seeds.
Do you ever wonder how they did it in bulk?
You know, I mean, how that stuff just happened.
I mean, if you're just shit stacking it, like if you're just shit stacking it, it's going
to happen naturally.
Right?
Like in some way, the inside is going to naturally ferment on the inside.
That's it.
It wasn't intentional.
Yeah.
I love writing that down.
Shit stacking.
Shit stack.
It's a very scientific.
Just happens.
Shit stack and sun dried.
Yeah.
Shit stack and sun dried oxidation.
Yeah.
So there's some sort of Harry Potter incantation.
That's made of magic.
Yeah.
No fairy dust on there.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's, it's, it's, it's all.
I like the milk.
You remember when I was telling you that first summer of 76, when I first got high with
Becky, my mother had a prescription for Quaaludes.
Oh, you know, I am so jealous.
Every time I hear people talk about that, I am too young to have ever smelled, seen,
tasted, experienced Quaaludes.
Please tell me.
Oh man.
I wrote in a pay dryer and the guy said, get in the dryer.
In a laundromat.
You got in the dryer.
I was trying to figure out what the hell he was talking about for a second.
I'm like, you got no what?
One of the effects of these things is they kind of made your body into rubber.
You know, it was pretty common for people to take these things, wreck their car,
bounce out of it completely unscratched.
It was, it was really common.
So is that you, you got in the dryer and took a tumble and you probably bounced out feeling
better than ever, huh?
I remember getting sick.
I remember falling into a garbage can too.
Yeah.
But that's another story I got to tell you about Mike.
I don't think I even put this one in my vintage Columbian, but there was a dealer named Mike
and this guy would get all kinds of drugs and different kinds of Lumbo, Mexican, even Thai.
But he gave us the 714s.
We were, we were waiting for him to come, the guy to come with the weed and he said,
Hey, why don't you try one of these roar, roar, 714.
What the fuck is that?
Good deal.
One hour later, I'm riding in a pay dryer.
And you know, you're the same age as I am.
And I was, as far as timeline, you know, those things were just about to disappear when I
was around a senior in high school.
Right.
So, probably the same for you.
And there was a thing that happened right around that end of the era where all these
bootlegs started showing up.
I don't know if you remember that.
Yeah.
And they were mostly like diazepam, like, what is it?
Valium.
Valium.
Yeah.
That makes sense.
People would mix it with alcohol and just get knocked slam out.
Right.
It just be one second and you're fine.
Did you ever get a bootleg, Red?
Oh yeah.
Okay.
And your mom's-
In the beginning, it was Roar.
And I believe those have been pharmaceutical.
And then it changed to Lemon.
Yeah.
Both of them were.
Yeah.
Both of them were pharmaceutical, but they were both copied also.
I've seen like old shirts with Lemon on them with like a number next to it.
714.
Is that what it was?
714.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, the first one, how do you spell Roar?
R-O-G-E.
There's an H in there somewhere.
Okay.
R-O-H-E-R.
Okay.
That makes sense.
Yeah.
R-O-H-E-R.
And then we got the Mandrax from Mexico.
What was that?
Yeah.
That's got aspirin mixed with it or something.
I can't remember.
Some kind of an-
Yeah.
It came in little packs like this, you know.
Well, that's not-
This is aspirin.
Okay.
Okay.
I watched a special on it.
I watched a special on it.
The only place in the world you can still get it is South Africa.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I was just going to say that, dude.
Yeah.
I saw the advice.
Yeah.
That was a good one.
I like that guy.
Yeah.
Hamilton Morris?
Yeah.
Yeah.
He's someone's grandkid or something, isn't he, Morris?
We all are, kind of, except-
No, but like a really rich benefactor.
No, we all really are.
Matt, no.
Matt Testube.
Come on.
Look at that head, man.
That only came out of one.
That's shaped by the tubular.
This is a special shape, bro.
Oh my gosh.
I would call it model shape.
Okay.
Yeah.
Okay.
But I've got a nice harvest coming up probably in late April, May.
That's my- I crossed the Malawi with a old haze that I got from CannabioGem.
I don't think it's available, but-
No.
Then I crossed that to my beautiful Santa Marta, and they're growing outside right about
a block from here.
I've only got two beautiful females, but that should be a good harvest.
I'm sure.
I don't know if Matt, that look on his face, it's-
I wish you could see.
I've got the same look, Matt.
That's kind of stupid.
Like, what's that sound look?
And then, but you're probably wondering, is that old-timers haze or is that Tom Hill haze?
Because Charlie had both.
Or-
I sent you a picture.
Another accession.
I saw that, and it looked like some of the very extreme phenos.
When you try and grow stuff like that indoors, they have a very similar structure, but not-
You know, just look so healthy and robust.
Yours just look beautiful growing outdoors like that, but it's a-
The structure indoors is really similar.
You know, I know guys with phenos just like that, and it's the good stuff.
So, let's see.
Mango biche.
First time you have seen or heard of mango biche.
Okay.
Well, of course, here they pronounce it mongo biche, but they-
Mongo biche means unripe mango.
That's what mongo biche means.
They sell it on the street corners.
But some people call it lemon lime or something, I think.
Limon something?
Not my favorite.
I don't like it.
In fact, I really don't like it.
What do you think it is?
Like, what do you think?
Is it normally the same thing or is it like stuff that's presented as mango biche that's-
No, I-
Not the same?
I can tell you what it is.
It's very intersexed.
It's long flowering, low potency.
It's hard to grow.
It's unmanageable.
It grows into this damn tree.
Now, that's the ones I've had.
Yeah.
Some of them, I-
may be better.
Holy crap, man.
I don't like it.
That's a laundry list of undesirable traits you just threw out there.
I think that pretty much waves off the entire world from wanting to pop that patch.
Yeah.
You just dropped it at the bottom of the list.
Mango biche is just like Punta Rojo.
It's a generalized name.
There's many varieties within that name.
Yeah.
And I didn't grow a lot of it.
Remember, I got this guy at the National University in Bogota, this guy that I smoked him with.
I said, dude, I got these mango biches.
You got to grow them out.
They're excellent.
I grew them out.
They were all fucking-
Those were nice.
These weren't Kai Key's mango biche?
No, no, no.
I've never grown those.
Okay.
Because I mean, look, we may as well consider these things to be two completely different things.
The stuff that you grew and the stuff that the rest of the world may have access to,
probably not the same.
Everything that was wrong with that mango biche-
Well, that was that mango biche.
We should assume that the Cannabiogenace people would have done their job and created-
Selected for less junky traits.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Well, I don't know if he still has it.
I don't even know if Kai Key's still selling seeds, but he had a Punta Rojo,
and I know where this Punta Rojo came from.
Oh, can you talk about that?
And I've grown it, and it is good Punta Rojo.
Well, tell us Punta Rojo.
This Punta Rojo, he came here, I forget, I don't know, remember what year it was.
It was in the 2000s, but he came here to Colombia and he hooked up with his buddies, went to
Manizales.
Manizales is a really unique place in elevation and climate and everything.
And he sourced the Punta Rojo from Manizales or that area, which is also where the
Wacky Weed, some of the Wacky Weed Manizales Black is from there.
Is that what Wacky Weed is, is Manizales Black?
That's one of them.
Gotcha.
The original one, I believe, to have come from Calca, the candy bar.
That's another story I got to tell you.
Yes, please.
But anyway, getting back to the Punta Rojo, I've got photos and everything.
I grew it in Bogota, 2016.
But you got to realize when you're, this kind of a plant is different than what you got.
You guys, it's not a Crush, it's not an OG, it's nothing like that.
It's not a, this is a, it's potent, but it doesn't look like it.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
You don't see a lot of crystal, you know, it's not all tricone.
It's not a big swirl mass.
When you open that bud up, when you open that flower up and start breaking it up, there's
little, like, sand size tricones.
But it's not that, it's the flavor.
And of course, the flavor, all these variables are in your environment.
I mean, you get a lot of it from the genetics, but if you grow it in guano, you get a different
taste.
Oh, sure.
Yeah.
If you grow it in chemical stuff, you get a different taste.
But it is the real deal.
And I like it.
I just don't like it.
And I like it.
I just don't, I am not growing it right now, but I definitely going to grow it again because,
and I have a bunch of the good seeds from that.
That's what I was going to ask, Red, is, you know, Kaiki, Canabajan, Ace released multiple
versions, iterations of this stuff.
I believe some of them outcrossed with other red South American, Central American sativas.
So, I'm just kind of wondering if you have any more detail where this might fall on that
timeline of stuff that was actually released by CBG or Ace.
Well, I believe the Punta Rojo seeds that I have and I grew here are the ones that,
in fact, I know they are because I helped him package the little, what he sells them in.
Yeah.
So, it's the original.
The only thing I have is what he's.
Was it a repro?
I mean, what you've got there, are they repro seeds?
Is it, you know, it's okay.
It's okay, Red.
No, I'm not sure.
I'm not sure because he had many things sent from Spain.
Yeah.
Many, many seeds and things were even had cuts from Spain.
He brought cuts from there.
Yeah.
But I believe these have been worked.
I don't believe they're the directly from the bag that he got the seeds from in Columbia.
I think they've, because there was no Amorphodites.
I grew like 12 of them.
Yeah.
There was three true males and I don't know, seven females and they were excellent, man.
I'll show you the photos.
Wow.
Big, tall colas, single stack colas.
Has this kind of, I don't know, it's like cedar, but it's like a wood smell.
It's not exactly cedar.
It's more like a, not pine either.
You'd have to smell it, but it's a woody type, dark wood smell.
It sounds like exactly what we'd expect from something named Punta Rojo, right?
Oh, it's excellent.
And of course, you know, that just, it just means red tips, red point.
Right, right.
Right.
And there's another one, right?
What is it?
The, well, another, there's, there's ones, you know, about in the United States like that Choco Chiba.
Yeah.
Okay.
Choco is a department, is a department on the Pacific coast and it's,
it's not suitable for growing cannabis.
It's very humid.
It's very jungly.
So maybe there was people that said that, but I've never, ever heard of cannabis being,
have been produced there, but it may be, I mean, it may very well be, but I've never heard of it.
So the, the first time I saw that referenced was in an old article.
I want to say it was R, but I might be wrong, but it was an old article on Colombians talking
about the very first Colombians and where they were being pushed out of.
And it was, I want to say, he didn't say Choco Chiba, he just called it Chiba Colombian
at the time.
I've heard that word before here.
Yeah.
He just said Chiba Colombian.
So I didn't know if Chiba was a province or town or.
Well, no, that's just a reference for something that's good.
Like, like what's the other one?
They say Chimba, Chimba.
Whenever like something's cool, they'll say, ah, Chimba.
Gotcha.
Okay.
But it's not Chiba.
Chiba I've heard in reference to cannabis here.
Very interesting.
So yeah.
So that doesn't even help pin down where the province could have been in relation to.
Yeah.
I think I remember the article you're talking about.
It was one of those things where R was just kind of just rattling off this, you know,
this string of, you know, the 84, you know, or the 78 Santa Marta was really good, but
they had a storm blowing in and the Reds were like a burgundy blah, blah, blah from Chiba.
Right.
Yeah.
He's just, it's almost like name drop.
Check this out.
This just came in the mail.
It's a, it's a prototype for this banana OG, but like this guy had it made in Japan.
It's a vinyl toy.
Oh, wow.
Isn't that cool?
Yeah, man.
They want to make some toys with me, but.
Yeah.
Because, because he's bored with the rubber ducks that have filled the ocean.
He wants to make some toys with the ocean.
He's bored with the rubber ducks that have filled the ocean.
He wants to replace it with little.
It feels like a rubber duck, dude.
You can, it makes air out of it like a rubber duck.
It is a rubber ducky.
Yeah.
Too close to air in there.
Yeah.
I got to, I got to put them up next to the pole spike girl right here.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, Hashfruit won the first Cannabis Cup.
Hashfruit was, what was that?
Hashfruit's a S1 Bubba.
Bubba.
Oh, is that what it is?
Is that a Cannabisogen 2?
It's a really, really push plant.
Yeah.
So is that a part of peyote purple?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I believe it's a derivative.
I also grow, that's a very weird plant.
The peyote purple is a, nothing's like it.
Yeah.
Very beautiful.
It's freaky.
Yeah.
We like that.
But again, I find bad about Indica's or most Indica's is how it.
It was like, it was like I was connected with everything around me.
All of a sudden I just started questioning everything I'd ever been told.
You know, by the time, by the time I got high that very first time,
when it started to hit me,
and I'm like, wow, I got high.
