to sort of help kill you or help kill ufology a little bit. Okay, so the name of the game is called
Stick With It, Let's Move On or BS. All right, so that's how you have to answer the topic that
comes up. Stick With It, Let's Move On or BS. So let's start with a big one. You ready?
Roswell. Stick With It. Cattle Mutilations. Let's Move On. Alien Abductions.
And by the way, let me count. Let's Move On for now. Yes, good. Okay, that's perfect.
Uh, Alien Abductions.
Let's Move On. Okay, Underground Military Bases. Alien Bases.
Yes. Wait, what? Did you say yes? BS. Oh, BS. Okay. All right, yeah,
because I saw Rather's base too. Okay, yeah, okay. BS. Total BS. Underground Alien Bases. All
right. Uh, Grassroots UAP Efforts Like The Big Phone Home. Stick With It, baby. Yeah, all right.
Uh, False Flag Operations. They've existed in the past, so let's say Let's Move On simply because.
Okay, let me clarify. UAP, False Flag Narratives. Well, we know that actually has occurred in the
past, so we can't say BS, and I don't want to say stick with it because it's not occurring now,
so that's why I say Let's Move On simply because there's elements that have some truth in that in
the past, but I don't see that right now as being, at least publicly. There's some resistance that
I'm facing inside the government, but that's not your concern, and that's, you know, a fight that
we have to deal with. It's more obfuscation, I think, than it is false flag. Got it. Alien Hybrids.
Yeah.
Let's, let's move on. We don't have enough data yet. All right. Public UAP Hearings.
Stick With It. Yeah. Uh, Secret Space Wars on Mars.
BS. Yeah, thank you. Uh, Susan Goff Will Be More Transparent In The Future.
Uh, is there a layer even more harsh than BS by chance? Oh my god. Okay, moving on. Uh,
Pressure The Air Force To Be More Transparent. Stick With It. Dino Beavers.
Um, I have no idea what, I know what dino testing is on a car, and I know what a beaver is,
and I know another kind of. You don't know what dino beavers are, Lou?
You have any idea what dino beavers, like Katsuki,
Skidwalkers at the Pentagon? I know about the wolves and stuff like that, but not the dino
beavers. Okay, all right, so pass. I'll give you a pass. Um, Skidwalker Ranch.
Stick With It. Okay, and last but not least, who's Lou? I don't know, I never saw it. Okay,
all right, excellent, excellent. All right, um, BS by the way. BS by the way. I would,
I would say BS. Lower category. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So strong, you blow your hair back.
Yeah, I mean, people are coming to me like, Lou, are you really not married? I'm like, dude,
I got married in Arapahoe County, not Florida. Okay. And they're like, oh, who's this picture
of these two girls? I'm like, well, the lady behind that woman is my wife. She didn't want
to be in the picture. So, you know, if I was having an affair with somebody, um,
it'd be really hard to have done that. Um, so it's garbage, man. I mean, it's like I said,
look, look at the source of right, who put, who put, I'm not going to mention names, but,
but look at the source and do a little digging and you'll see, uh, you know, you'll see who's,
who's a liar. Okay. So one other question about Skinwalker, and this is one that I
