Welcome to Breeder Syndicate 2.0, where we explore the history of a clandestine scene.
Researching everything from cannabis strain history, old smuggling tales from the first
person perspective, to breeding science and news on current subculture.
I'm your host Matthew, and I'll occasionally be joined by my homie NotSoDog, breeder and
grower from Mendocino, to speak on these subjects and sometimes interview other participants.
Our goal is to document this history before it's written by corporations and others who
just weren't there.
What are some of the legal things going on today in cannabis and how it's affecting everything
and from your perspective?
Well, I mean, I think it's affecting everything.
Certainly, I don't think there is a part of the cannabis scene from extracts to seeds
to flower or anything like that that hasn't been affected by it.
And I think honestly, it's been primarily negative.
Maybe you could say, especially for California, because some of these other states, it might
be their first time that they got stores.
But California's had medical shops and stuff like that, basically full-fledged dispensaries
for a long time.
Well, now when you say negative, who are we speaking about?
Who is it affecting negatively?
Is it affecting the consumer negatively right this second?
Is it going to affect-
I actually think it's affecting everyone negatively.
I think so too, but I don't know that everyone will realize the effect instantly.
I mean, I don't know.
If you want to start from the consumer and go up, I think for a lot of consumers, choice
has gone down.
Pricing has certainly dropped significantly and price has gone up.
But bro, I'm getting my cookies.
But you think price has gone up really though?
Like hasn't the price on the pounds dropped or legal market, has it gone up?
For the consumer?
Yeah.
You know what I'm saying?
So we're not talking, that's what I said.
We'll start with the consumer.
Like if you're buying eighths and ounces or something like that, if you're going into
the shops-
Are they paying the same price or more?
I think they're paying more.
Yeah.
I'm just so out of the loop on that part.
Well, they're paying more because when you go and there's all these built-in taxes that
there didn't used to be.
Oh yeah, that's right.
Before all the laws, there's excise taxes, there's these taxes, there's all these different
things.
I mean, people sometimes on IG will post these receipts and they'll show like, oh, I just
bought three $70 eighths.
And then you add up the taxes and the excise and the this and the that and everything else,
plus the sales.
And it's like this crazy component of it.
I also think too that like all these Mylars that most, and what I mean by Mylar for people
listening, I think most people know, but like a lot of cannabis these days is sold in opaque
Mylar bags.
Which means that you're looking at it and you get to see what the strain name is and
you get to see what the packaging and the art they chose is.
But very often you don't even get to see the cannabis you're buying until you've left the
building.
Definitely not smell.
So you don't get to smell it, you don't get to touch it, you don't get to view it.
And so it's sort of like, you just get to see the art and the things that they've chosen.
There's some exceptions, there's people that are, there's some things where they're visible,
there's some people that are selling them in jars and stuff like that.
But for the most part, you don't get to see it.
And so I think the taxes have made it to where I would bet on average people are paying more
at the shop than they were under 215.
And I don't think the choices are as diverse.
I wouldn't think so.
I just wonder if they, one, if they care.
I guess as long as the prices are high, they probably do care.
I think the more prices drop on the consumer end, the less they would care because the
prices are lower and I just don't know that they've been top quality.
Well, I mean, you can say that people wouldn't care, but it's like, I mean, I guess you could
walk like, to use an alcohol perspective, you could walk into the store and be like,
I am glad that the Bud Light is getting cheaper by the case, but I wish that there was maybe
some other brands.
Sure.
Yeah.
It makes sense.
You know?
And so I, you know, I think what happened is, personally, is I think that when they
made these rules, they looked at like what the black market price or the traditional
market price or the medical price or whatever you want, whatever you want to phrase it as
was, and they based a bunch of taxes and fees off of that price.
Not realizing that as soon as you expanded supply by a ton, you were going to change
the pricing of all that dramatically.
So taxes are too high for the consumer.
Taxes are too high for the distro.
Taxes are too high for the, you know, for the, for the farmer.
Right.
And I don't think that, I don't, I don't think yet that the states care, you know, because
what's really happening is, is they get so many taxes and they get so much fees upfront,
especially like municipalities and counties and all that.
Like they get so many, they get so much upfront just for the right to do it.
That it's not like normal taxes should be, I'm making money off when you make a sale.
Yeah.
Instead of having to pay upfront for all the ability to surveil you and all that stuff.
Yeah.
So it's like you start adding in all these, you start adding in all these fees and taxes
and revenue boosters into a new industry.
And what it's basically done is it's made quality a lot harder to come by.
Oh, for sure.
I mean, there's, I'm seeing stories, you probably are too, Matt.
I'm seeing stories like in California of just like how many cultivation licenses are
not being renewed for the 2023 season.
Yeah.
And that's got to scare them a little bit.
You know, they may not have seen the effect immediately again, because they were getting
the money from, you know, the, the, the right to be able to grow.
What are the licenses and all that shit?
Well, you can look at it, you can look at it in a different way.
I mean, I think I'm not a very big fan of proposition 64 for California specifically.
And I don't want to get too California specific because I'm sure there's a bunch of people
in other States that like have different rules.
But one of the things that happened is, you know, when we all voted on this thing that
we were supposed to, they were supposed to, for the first five years, you weren't supposed
to grow more than an acre or say 43,500 square feet for the first, from 2018 to 2023.
Yeah.
And that was supposed to allow legacy farmers a toehold to have them have years to establish
distro and dispensary and all these different relationships before big companies came in.
That's right.
Yeah.
Well, Steve D'Angelo and Harbor side and other lobbying groups, they didn't want to wait
that long.
They wanted to dominate.
And so they got to work around where you couldn't have more than an acre.
That's still true.
Yeah.
Because that's part of the law, but you can stack as many 10,000 square foot licenses
as your County will allow you or your city will allow you to.
Okay.
And so what happened there is that what they would have found, in my opinion, if they would
have forced it to just be an acre or less, you would have had all these legacy brands.
Sure.
And you would have discovered that with the amount of stores that they have, the legacy
brands were more than capable of filling the current demand.
Yeah.
And since all these legacy brands would have been a lot more, a lot smaller and a lot more
diverse in size, their quality probably would have been a lot better hitting the shelves.
But what they did is they allowed certain counties like in Monterey and Salinas and
in Santa Barbara and different areas to blow up and have dozens or hundreds even of light
of 10,000 square foot licenses.
Yeah.
And they got, you know, and when you look at the fees for some of these things, some
of these farms are paying, you know, hundreds of thousands of dollars to over a million
dollars a year just in license fees.
So the state and the counties, they get all that money upfront.
Yeah.
And then there's way, way too much weed being produced.
I have a quick question.
Yeah.
Tangent, but quick question.
How was Harborside producing all that stuff in Arizona for so long that everybody knew
about?
Was there somebody?
That I don't know.
Was there somebody they were moving it in?
No, I mean, they, as far as I know, Harborside had a, I think it was like, you know, 10 or
11 acres or something like that.
It was a pretty big greenhouse facility.
I mean, it's publicly known, right?
Somewhere, somewhere in Salinas.
Oh, I thought about the Arizona.
Do you remember the Arizona stuff?
I do, but I don't, I don't have any inside information on that.
Yeah, I don't either.
I'm just wondering.
Yeah.
But you know, there's basically what happened is, is there was any number of rich people
and their children, especially.
Yeah.
Who were like, ooh, this is a new massively profitable industry and I'm going to help
my family dominate it.
Yeah.
And kind of what's happened, this is actually, maybe this is like a little subversive or
for me to say or whatever, but, but really what's happened is most of the biggest investors
and the biggest companies have just been lighting a bunch of money on fire.
That's true.
Like they thought they were going to burn through all this money, but at the end of
the day, they would have a dominant market position and then they would recoup that over
time.
As a poor person, I look at that and I think, oh, those rich people thought they were rich
enough to play with the richer people.
Well, the other way you could look at it and I'm not, you know, I'm not naming names or
whatever, but you could say that there was a industry wide thing and this is not everyone.
So don't take offense if you're one of these people or maybe you should, I don't know.
It depends on who you are.
But when the money first came into cannabis, a lot of traditional cannabis people who had
had to hide for a long time and stay low and they didn't really deal with that type of
sharky rich person stayed low.
And a lot of the people that were really interested in rep and getting rich and being flashy,
they were the first people to run towards the money.
For sure.
So what happened is, is a lot of money made a lot of bad deals with a lot of people that
weren't able to actually do what they said they were going to do.
Yeah.
It was a bunch of people that acted like they were connected and knew some shit, but weren't
and didn't.
I mean that we saw that nonstop in every single facility we've ever been to.
Yeah.
I mean, a lot of it, when people would hire us to consult, it would be to fix the errors
of the knuckleheads that came before us, the chads that came before us that were like,
we know what to do.
You know, you saw so much.
And so, you know, you have a situation now where it's like a state of the union or whatever,
but you won't like if you're on IG or you follow like marijuana news or anything like
that, you're seeing reports all the time of now of like almost daily or weekly of pissed
off investors who all their, all their investment money has been blown.
And they're wondering what the hell's happening.
You know, like in my neck of the woods, I mean, it was this big thing where like Flo
Kona, you know, they raised $250 million or something.
Yeah.
And then a few months ago they shuttered operations.
And so I think those guys, you know, they dealt with some pretty sharky investors, you
know, who were probably not the greatest people to deal with, but then the investors are like,
okay, well we're going to kick you out and we're going to take it all over.
And then they're like here and like, oh, what are we taking over?
There's no money.
Yeah.
You know, and when it turns out is, is that as long as we're going to be this situation
where we're not federally legal and we're only state legal, then every state technically
legally is supposed to be its own little island.
Yes.
Which means that it can only, you can't outs, you can't send your excess anywhere, but these
highly regulated channels.
Yeah.
And nobody ever figured out like how much output or how to like, how to give out the,
you know, how to give out licenses.
And since licenses had a ton of upfront money and fees and costs involved, they just granted
them and took a bunch of the money.
Yeah.
And they made it really, really hard for most of these pieces, places to survive.
So what you have is you have the people that are best at growing cannabis, say like the
people in my area in Mendo or, you know, Southern humble people that have been growing for a
long time outdoor or like depth, or you have people that are really quality indoor farmers
or whatever.
And they're pushed in all these different directions just to survive.
So they can't actually bring their full craft knowledge to bear because they're having to
make choices based on surviving.
Right.
Yeah.
And then you've got these huge companies that are just burning through other people's money
that are producing B and C grade cannabis and then dumping that anywhere they can just
to stay afloat.
And how much do you think the hemp market played into it?
The hemp market?
The hemp market played into the THC market and the overflow.
Oh, well, I mean, I think that, uh, it's hard.
I mean, really?
I mean, like it's the state of shit.
So before we get into hemp, I'll just say this.
What happened is, is that, um, there's way too much cannabis being grown in California.
Yeah.
Way too much, way too much outdoor, way too much.
There's, there's so many 300, 500, 800 lighters, you know, all these huge scenes that are banging
stuff out and there's, and what's weird is that like you look at Canada and Canada every
year destroys large amounts of unsold legal cannabis.
Yep.
So far in America, all of ours just disappears.
You know, just disappears.
So what happens is, is that there's not enough demand to, um, you know, to, you know, there's
way more supply than there is demand.
The state doesn't want to admit failure.
Yeah.
And so, you know, there's a lot of, but let's just say that the line between the legal market
and the traditional market is more of a, it's more of a shadow than a line.
Yeah.
I'd say that's a fair statement.
It's very permeable.
Yeah.
So we got, we had a brief technical difficulty, but, um, wherever I was talking about, the
line between legal and traditional is more of a, is more of a shadow than a firm line,
you know?
And so no one wants the, the, the state doesn't want to address the fact that they've way
allowed overproduction to proliferate, right?
Yeah.
And so what happens is, is that a lot of this stuff is getting diverted.
But.
It is.
Diverted into the traditional market.
Diverted into the traditional market is flooding that in and taking out what would be future
potential competitors for rich folk.
And one of the things that used to annoy me is like when I'd smoke weed with friends and
the dab revolution was happening.
I'm like, you know, this, this torch thing is really not relaxing.
It just took a really nice hit, you know?
And I'm like all happy.
And then it's all.
It was too, it was too tweaky for me.
Cause I remember back in the day, like tweakers used to have to make their own pipes and stuff.
And they do that with blow torches and shit.
And I used to hate that.
Like it would just be a nasty.
So when I would see people like light up dab rigs, it would just bring back bad memories
of that shit.
And of course, when we just start bullshitting about nothing in particular, it's come coming
through crystal clear.
Yeah, of course.
Yeah.
And then I start trying to chat and then we like lose it or whatever.
So that's, that's fun.
Well, let's go ahead and keep going.
Okay.
So I don't know exactly where we got cut off, but I, what I think is happening is I think
that the state doesn't want to admit that it's allowed far too much production to occur.
And there's nowhere for that production to go within the regulated channels or not enough
of it.
And they don't really know how to have a system where people have poured in all this money,
probably without getting sued of how to pick and choose winners and losers of who can continue
and who can't.
And they probably don't want to admit that they created a system that's failed.
But what's happened is, is because we're not allowed to do interstate commerce, our
overproduction isn't allowed to go anywhere.
Yeah.
Legally, that is.
So what happened?
Huh?
Don't you, I mean, from just from my point of view, the way I look at it and you know,
I have this really like super nihilistic point of view on everything.
It's very dark maybe.
But I thought that was like, from my point of view, all done intentionally with the knowledge
that it's very easy for them to predict how to crash a market and how to sink because
they can afford to lose money for X amount of years because they're used to doing this
business.
But who's they?
They as any corporate entity, these major corporate entities are buying in.
No.
You know, like a W, what's the one that UFC and all that stuff, they've got interest in
cannabis.
I don't believe that's true.
I agree with you and that I had my suspicions.
And I do think that there are some people out there, Glasshouse, that is intending on
burning through investor money in the hopes that the market opens up and then they're
positioned to service a much wider part of the American people than they currently are.
See, the way I'm saying it is not necessarily so mysterious.
It's in business.
Like the idea is the richest people that are going into a business in a new commodity,
they know that they can outlast taking losses longer than the other ones.
Oh, I get what you're saying.
So they drive the price down or they drive the price up.
No one can compete or drive it down.
No one can compete because they can't afford to sell at that price.
Then they artificially, because it was artificially driven down, push it back up.
That is true.
However-
Now they control the whole market and everybody's gone.
What they're discovering is that too many different disparate rich people were trying
to do that.
Yeah, that's what I was trying to get you to get to.
And what they really ended up doing was lighting their money on fire.
That's right.
They got too greedy.
And some of these people are now tired and like they're...
So look at it from a rich person's perspective, right?
They want to put their money into something that gives them a rate of return.
And they got bamboozled into thinking that weed was going to be this, oh my God, it's
going to be three times the size of alcohol.
This is going to be an $80 billion industry.
We're going to get into the ground floor.
My son, who's kind of been a ne'er-do-well his whole life, I'm going to be able to gift
him at the ground level this amazing thing and he's going to stop being a disappointment.
Right?
Yeah.
I think a lot of it may be that, sure.
But I think a lot of people predicted there was going to be a lot of that.
So maybe we could take a different step back.
Sure.
Because this explains a lot of it.
Because it's still federally legal, the feds have decided to some degree where as long
as it's within a state, they're not really going to apply it because the state is sovereign
and can do what it wants.
So that, like I said, that makes each state its own little island, which makes it unique
in business because there's almost nothing else in America where you're confined by whatever
business you're doing to the state that you're in.
Fireworks and that's it.
That could think of.
You know, maybe you need to get a law license or a real estate license.
But when it comes to goods, for the most part, there's nothing where you're like, oh, this
good can't cross state lines.
It can only be in California or it can only be in Wyoming or it can only be in Arizona.
Fireworks.
Right?
So fireworks.
So down to, dude, is you have to realize that like rich people want a rate of return on
their investment.
And so far, cannabis has been a terrible investment in which many, many, many big investors are
not even getting their principal back.
Yeah.
Much less profit on their principal.
Sure.
Right.
So no rich people want to like light their money on fire or like, you know, shoot it
down a tube and never see it again.
Yeah.
So they got into it where they thought, oh, I can get into this industry.
I can get in this marketplace.
We can be in at the ground floor.
I can get a big amount of market share and we can get in early and I'm going to make
gads of money.
And this is where I like, I keep saying like they treated it like any commodity.
Right.
And it wasn't like any commodity.
No, it's unique.
It's so unique and so different.
It's not federally legal.
And so that what that means is that like, if it was federally legal, we could ship it
to whatever other states we wanted to that wanted to allow it.
Yeah.
You know, we could send our excess to places, which means every single state that's setting
that's gotten set up has gotten new investors jumping in, hoping to make a bunch of money
before there's competition for them.
Yeah.
And they're all bumping into the same thing.
I mean, I was talking about it before with FloCon or whatever.
Do you really think those people wanted to light 250 million on fire?
Yeah, I can't imagine that.
And after you pour that amount of money in, you decide to stop touching cannabis and you
shutter most of the operations as you try to retool and figure out what you want to
do.
Yeah, that's not a good look.
Did you see that thing?
Like I was on, it was on IG and it was in the news, you know, where there's investors
that are hella angry at Emerald.
I think it's Emerald Family Farms from Humble, where they got an 18 or a 19 million dollar
reinvestment.
And the guy absconded and changed his number and the investors haven't received a penny
of their principal back.
Shocking.
You know, I mean, I don't know.
You went crypto with it.
I'm just, well, you know, I'm not, there's like not like I don't I don't know any
details of it either.
But yeah, there's investors that are now suing various executives of Cookie.
Oh, angry, angry at, you know, all kinds of various practices, but probably I saw that.
I saw that.
What was the one that they were saying?
I mean, they're basically saying that they got diluted and that certain executives, a
couple of them are pretty famous.
We're getting kickbacks, side deals and all that type of stuff.
And obviously, like if you're running on investor money, they don't want you making
side deals.
Yeah, yeah. No, because it's all public and yeah.
Well, it's not your money.
Yeah. You can't be doing that.
Yeah. Yeah.
You know, and so and so who knows if it's true or not, but we've entered in like, yeah,
that's not what I'm saying.
And I don't have any inside information on that.
But what I'm saying is, is that, you know, you can look around at these stories that are
coming out, whether it's Flo Conner, Emerald Family Farms or Cookies or whatever, where
people that were investing a bunch of money in 2018, 2019, 2020 with big hopes and dreams.
Of having a bunch of market share and and making a lot of money off their investment are
now worried that they're not even going to get their investment money back.
Yeah. Much less profit.
And they thought they were going to come in swinging.
Yeah, they thought they were going to take it over.
Yeah. And so one of the things I was trying to say before we had some technical glitches is
that because it's still federally illegal, you know, most big banks are multinational
banks, you know, or they operate and they don't want big fines and they don't want trouble
with the federal government.
Yeah. Which means so far that cannabis businesses have been they've had a cannabis
businesses actually have a really hard time even getting banking.
You know, I can throw something in here that's very recent that I learned with seed banks
recently. There is Attitude Seed Bank opened up in the USA.
A lot of people know about this and they were able to secure credit card processing.
However, their competitors were trying to do the same thing and they were told...
Major problems. It's not even consistent problems.
Well, I mean, typically what happens, too, is, you know, like a bank will find out that a
cannabis company is a cannabis company because they're not all named like Emerald Farms or
something. Some of them are named like the most benign sounding LLC imaginable.
Something like T-shirts.
Yeah. You know, in order to get around that.
Yeah. And then they literally shut you down because they don't want fines from the federal
government. They don't want...
Because they're federally insured.
They don't want any trouble from the federal government because they're trying to stay
compliant. Yes.
Right. So what that means is that they're very intent upon not having a bunch of
traditional cannabis black market money flow in to the legal system.
They wanted it to be above board and they wanted to be legal.
The problem is, is that we don't have really government banks in this country.
All these banks are private, which means that like the government of California or whoever
can't order the bank to treat this industry like a normal business if it sees liability
for itself. So you and I can't go into a bank with a business idea and a prospectus and
get a loan.
We can't go to AG credit.
We can't go to Chase or Wells Fargo or any of these big companies.
You can't go to them and do that.
Right. But they want you to use bank's money.
Always. So what does that mean?
That means that you're dealing with private individuals.
You know, or funds that collect rich people's banked money.
Right. Which means that that's why I always go back to no matter if no matter what, those
people were never going to win because they were never rich enough to compete with the
William Morris Company and all these other major organizations, these major organizations.
They haven't even really jumped in all that much yet because it's not like they want to
jump in when it's when like I honestly think that you can look around at some of these
big companies like, you know, whatever, Cookies or Jungle Boys or somebody like that.
Right. They're hoping when they go federally legal.
I would guess that some big corporation like Nabisco or William Morris or, you know,
absolutely some big company comes in and just buys them.
I'm sure. Yeah, that's what they're hoping for, because honestly, so far, the super large
companies that can really throw their weight around cannabis is too small fry for them
yet. It's not international.
There's too many barriers to trade.
There's too many regulations.
There's too many restrictions.
It's too new.
They don't want to throw math.
They might be prepping for what's eventually going to happen.
Sure. Yeah, we already know that.
But I don't know that they would buy in under their name.
They always buy in under subsidiaries anyways.
We wouldn't really have a very good idea of who's buying into what because they don't ever
do that. Well, I buy in as their name, you know.
So far, they're also smart, right?
So what it looks like is that a bunch of the private investors so far looks like they're
going to lose their ass.
Yes, heavily.
They're going to heavily lose their ass, you know.
And so they might be waiting for like it to actually go more legal.
And then they can come in and buy things for pennies that have a lot of infrastructure in
place. And I think some of these big people call them MSOs, multi-state
organizations. I think a lot of these MSOs, both the executives and the private
investors that are involved in them, their whole business model is to get big enough and
attractive enough that someone eventually comes along and gobbles them up and
everybody makes a bunch of money based on their stock position.
Yeah, I think that's the idea of like a lot of like how
I shouldn't say the average person when they start a business, I think that's the
mindset is that they hope they get big enough to get bought out by someone bigger.
I think that's a lot of the small business mindset.
A lot of people don't have the mindset of the long game.
I mean, you know, so, you know, and I think that's the investors, you know, they're
looking at that's how they're going to get paid back.
Sure. Is this big buyout and everybody gets a certain amount per share.
Yeah. And then it comes in a big chunk, you know.
And so some of these invest some of these businesses are always after fresh
batches of private investment.
And like the most devastating thing for them ever would be the status quo.
It reminds me of the Internet bubble so much, just the way we're speaking about it,
like the Internet bubble of the 2000s.
Oh, yeah. Like this thing where it's like, oh, Yahoo's worth 480 bucks a share.
And then eventually somebody goes, well, how do they actually make money?
Yeah. Yeah.
And someone's like, where's all the money?
Where's the revenue?
You know, and it's like you can have certain businesses, strangely enough, for
market share that keep losing money but gaining market share.
Like, you know, Amazon would be the primary example.
Oh, yeah. Where they grew themselves with losses.
But they were actually gobbling up market share and destroying local malls and
changing how consumers shopped.
Yeah, they changed how business was done in that in that way.
They changed how they changed literally.
And the Internet came along with them and people could all of a sudden shop in their
underwear. And, you know, so that model can that model can work, you know, but it's
not working for weed. And so I think now you're in this position where we're in
California, we're five years into legalization and all of a sudden the stuff you
start to see a lot of is anger and lawsuits and recriminations and firing of
executives and all these different things going on, because where's the money?
Yeah. Who's making money?
No one. Not that I can see.
Like when you when you talk to people and you and I both talk to a lot of people all
up and down, you want to call it the industry on both sides.
Yeah. You know, who tells you, you know, you don't even have to say who they are.
Is anyone telling you, oh, we're making money hand over fist?
Couldn't be happier. No.
And it seems like the only people that could be making money are the is the taxes
making money, which and I don't see that necessarily.
I don't see like public social stuff benefiting widely from.
Well, taxes aren't making money.
Taxes are skimming off other people's money.
Well, that's what I'm saying. But it's the only guaranteed money that has come in
are the taxes, you know, taxes and fees and all this different stuff.
And so a lot of times these investors were promised whatever they needed to get
promised so that these people could get the money.
Yeah. And they figure it out later.
And then there's some of these people, some of the people that are winning is
like some of these executives that borrowed that borrowed a bunch of money.
Had that last test.
We've had enough technical difficulties this week now that I do feel a little
thrown off my my jibber jabber game.
Yeah, for sure.
So on top of all the legal stuff, there was some news today that kind of hit the
scene that that was a little wacky.
And the general consensus when I posted the article was not not positive
from our community, the traditional market, I would say, generally speaking, that
responds to what I post.
And it was about California giving twenty two million dollars, I believe it was, or
there thereabouts to it was either six or 16 universities.
To conduct research on legacy strings.
And the response from pretty much everyone was resoundingly like, how, what, how are
they going to do legacy anything when they haven't talked to anyone in the community?
I know my I'm I'm super biased and opinionated about this, but I'm really
interested since since you hadn't heard about it or seen it yet to hear your
thoughts. Well, I don't you know, I didn't
actually hear about it because I was otherwise occupied today until you told me
right before we kind of started the show.
I do think, you know, it's a needed thing.
In the sense that they should start taking interest into the genetic history and the
diversity and the different types of plants that are out there, their problem that
they're going to face probably is the same problem that they face, like with making
things legal is like, since we don't have any like accreditation and there's no way
for them to like vet us.
Yeah. How do they choose who should be on the board?
Because as you and I know, right, like without naming any names and getting anybody
mad at us or anything like that, you know, there is a lot of popular people that
actually aren't that.
In depth.
Yeah. And so you start talking about like, well, who should be the people talking about
history? Oh, my gosh.
Would you probably get a big debate on who is allowed in and who people trust and who
people don't trust?
OK, let me read this to you real quick so you can get a better idea.
Me getting closer because I am blind.
The California Department of Cannabis Control, the DCC, awarded 20 million in research
grants to 16 academic institutions.
The funds will support scientific research on the impact of cannabis on the mental health
of young people, novel cannabinoids and Delta 8 and Delta 10 THC, and a first of its
kind study of California's legacy cannabis genetics intended to preserve the history,
value and diversity of the communities that steward them.
It is the department's aspiration that these studies will advance the body of scientific
research, further our understanding of cannabis and aid to continue development and
refinement of the legal framework.
Said Rasha Salama, chief deputy director at DCC.
Coming. These studies will provide valuable insights on topics of interest to
California's consumers, businesses and policymakers, and the department looks forward to
sharing them once they are completed.
Researchers at the University of California, San Diego, will build on the existing
federally funded project to provide California specific data on the impact of
cannabinoids on mental health, physical health during adolescence, yada, yada, yada.
I was more interested in the in the legacy part, but they don't really go much more
into that. And yeah.
So after hearing more.
Anything change there?
Well, it's about as vague as humanly possible.
Sure. Yeah. Except for the fact that, you know, they're going to look at effects on
children. Yes.
And which makes 10.
Well, that that makes sense to me.
Yeah, because, you know, anytime you make rules, there's obviously going to be a series
of people that are going to try to work their way around rules.
Yeah, sure. And I don't think they anticipated when they passed the farm bill that had the
hemp part to it, that people were going to extract these things, Delta eight and Delta
10, because they only had regulations banning Delta nine THC.
Yeah. Delta happens a specific kind of Delta nine THC at that.
Yeah. So what happens is, is various entrepreneurs discovered that you can pull out
these possibly psychoactive chemicals or compounds or whatever from hemp.
Right. And hemp isn't regulated that way.
And neither are these compounds.
And all of a sudden it appears at your local gas station.
Yeah. Right.
It's way Delta eight and Delta 10 probably have way more places that they're sold.
Everywhere here.
Yeah. Then then cannabis, because cannabis so far, they've created so many rules and
regulations. It's like it costs an arm and a leg just to have a store.
And there's zero regulations on this stuff right now.
And there's zero regulations.
And so I'm sure with zero regulations, that's giving kids a lot more access to it.
I do fear the the kid thing.
Yeah. Specifically because typically kids are very sympathetic.
Right. And nobody in the legal market or traditional market is really advocating for a
bunch of kid use.
Yeah. No.
Not at all.
Whatsoever. So, you know, I do think that I don't think you should ban things that
adults enjoy in order to protect children.
I agree. You know, but, you know, the way that things that could hurt children possibly
or could have a negative impact on them don't get regulated is the industry is big and
powerful and rich and has a bunch of lobbyists.
And they make sure that they keep their grubby hands off their stuff.
Cannabis doesn't have that.
Cannabis doesn't actually have big business.
But to me, like the the legacy strain part is the part that really, like, grinds my
gears, because like like just even looking at the idea of it is like now they want to
take a look at the legacy strains.
Hey, let's get let's get a hold of some of these stewards over in some of these
locations in California.
Oh, you mean the ones that don't fucking grow anymore because they can't afford to
they had to toss out their mother room because they were driven out by the corporate
shit. These guys are all supporting.
That's the way I look at it.
Matt didn't want me to talk about this because he says we talk about it all the time,
but I'll bring it up again.
You know, it's fine.
Fine. You must.
Is is that, you know, I am quite fear fearful of legacy strains, both in seed and clone
form surviving because it was always a small group of people that cared about holding on
to things that weren't currently popular.
Yeah. Right.
The vast majority of the cannabis industry only wants to grow things that people want in
the moment. Most people, even within our community, don't care very much about legacy
unless that legacy makes them money.
So it was already a small subset of a small subset.
Right. And the issue is, is that that small subset used to be able to use what was a
fairly lucrative industry to fund their little passion project.
Which might be keeping rare clones from back in the day that had a popularity once that
aren't very popular right now or rare seed lines or, you know, I mean, Matt can talk
about, you know, like our buddy CSI or him or others where they make things that are
commercially viable, but then they also have passion projects on the side where they
might get some old lines or some rare stuff or some weird sativas that probably aren't
commercially viable.
Yeah. But they might do an open pollination or they might do a preservation project just to
keep those seeds fresh.
Yeah. And see what's going on with them.
And but what that takes is that takes someone caring and having enough time and excess
money to be able to fund that little passion project.
Yeah. So if they're going to stretch everybody out and everyone's going to be hanging on by a
thread, it's going to make those little passion projects, it's going to make things that
aren't currently feasible much harder to achieve.
Yeah, I think this it sounds like resoundingly after talking to not just our, you know,
our friends, but people at other seed banks and around the community, it sounds like this
420 was pretty miserable sales wise in the seed market, more probably the worst one yet in
the years that it passed.
So, yeah, definitely like the legacy, the legacy stuff's going to be growing tighter and
tighter and tighter because it was that that kind of stuff that was not moving at all.
I mean, Matt can talk about this more than I can, but, you know, we used to have like a lot
of times the Emerald Cup or like the High Times Cups or these various gatherings.
Not only they were nominally an awards ceremony and but really what they kind of were was
they were a way to sell hundreds of booths to all kinds of different vendors.
Yeah. And those vendors could come and with a fee and booth space and whatever else they
could hawk their wares, whatever those wares might be.
Yeah. And that was actually probably the economic driver that pushed most of these events.
Big time, right? For a long time.
Yeah. Because it was a way for, you know, producers of seeds or flowers or topicals or
extracts or, you know, whatever edible, whatever the case may be, to get in front of
customers. Yeah.
And you could go see and you could maybe even talk to your heroes or you could complain to
someone in person or whatever it might be.
And, you know, that fueled a lot of small businesses that had a very wide and very diverse
interest range.
Yeah. So you could go and talk to Matt and, you know, he's interested in, you know, you
know, blue lines and weird Afghans and different types of stuff like that.
And you could go talk to somebody else that was interested in mostly in old school
Humboldt and Mendo genetics.
And you could talk to somebody else that was mostly interested in purples or, you know.
That one year in Emerald Cut, me and CSI were literally booth to booth with NCGA right
next to me. It was a really weird situation.
You could talk to three of the older guys right there.
Right there. Yeah. People can get.
And a lot of times it was like people wanted to buy seed.
And so, you know, when when the industry had more money sloshing around in it, a bunch of
people would come to those events with cash in their pocket and tending on talking to
people directly, which wasn't always easy.
And then making purchasing decisions after those chats.
It was a traditionally outlaw market.
It was like I mean, that was a started out as a harvest festival.
So it was a lot of the outlaw market that would bring their outlaw money, you know, like
this was how it ran and they would buy their seats for that whole next year that they
wanted to run. And it was a it was something that happened.
And it it fueled a it fueled a lot of what was the Emerald Triangle at that time.
Yeah. And it fueled a lot of individuality.
It fueled a lot of, you know, it basically made the scene very diffuse.
And I was able to grow some chocolate ties and grow those lines.
You could you could there were, you know, all of a sudden and, you know, Matt will joke,
you know, that like, you know, we talked about it, how like 90 percent of the seed
companies probably have sprung up within the last 10 years.
Oh, yeah. That in that environment that allowed them to do a bunch of shows and IG
allowing them to like announce drops and do business through there, allowed them to
communicate with a lot of various weed people, small and large, and connect to their
customers. And it developed a pretty robust thing.
And the more robust it became, the more people got interested in jumping into it.
Right. And it's kind of like one of those things where, like, you get into real estate or
something during a boom time and you've never experienced high interest rates or a
depression. So the whole time you've been in business, it's just booming.
And there's a lot of people right with seeds, with seeds like it's everybody can make
seeds. It's not hard to make seeds.
It's it's hard to do selections and do predictive breeding, you know, but it's not hard
to make seeds. So it's like it is kind of hard to sell a house in that way.
Like it's not easy to sell.
Anybody can make seeds like anybody do it their first time.
Super easy with the mail and email.
And so anybody that small people to like dabble in it as an excess stream of income.
Yeah. But that also allowed some people to pursue their passions or their interests.
Yeah. And then find people that shared those interests and sell beans to them.
Yeah. Well, now what's happened with the legality of everything is that all those booths
there, they all have to be licensed people.
It's now they've now now before the whole thing was sort of like some kind of like gray
area swap meet.
Now they have little segments of like, oh, here's the legacy brands.
Yeah. Here's the little section of people that probably can't afford to be here, but it's
used it used to be all the people you came to see.
So we'll like we'll like make this little section for them and we'll make them have a
space because you're tired of going and seeing all of the big corporate funded brands.
Yeah. That have a bunch of money behind them.
And none of them really have any little passion projects.
What they want is like market share and money.
And a lot of those in the legacy brands, you would go in there and you'd see they'd have
like a plant there and you could talk to them.
There was zero seed sales.
They were not allowed to do any seed sales if they were licensed by the state.
So I mean, I remember that there was there was people there was times when, you know, I
would do random stuff like I would go to like, you know, I'll just just off the top of my
head. I went to like the the Swamp Boys once, you know.
Yeah. And I I smelled their mojito.
And I was like, oh, that was a cool jar.
I'll take a pack.
Yeah, there was there was there was some nose in there that I was like, oh, OK.
It was like, you know, but it's like unless you have unless you have samples and unless
you have herb and unless you have people that can like, you know, smell it or smoke it or
see it or talk to the person, they might not know it exists or might not know it cares.
Yeah. You know.
And so what happens is, is that a lot of the people that started making seeds and started
making names and started making companies for themselves are locked out of that.
Yeah. So it's like the very people that built those scenes up into making people willing
to buy expensive tickets and bring money in their pocket to drop and allow those
those, you know, those, you know, those high times or Emerald Cup or whatever to sell
expensive booth space.
Right, like that all collapses because you need people with money.
You know, the last year, the very last year that I went to Emerald Cup, the only way I
was allowed to go there was to go there via a seed bank that was registered.
Right. Like and had licenses somehow, all that crap.
And I was allowed to interact with the customers, but I wasn't allowed to do any direct
seed sales. So they come to me excited to buy these packs for me.
And I'd be like, I've got to go there.
Sorry. And it would just upset people so much that they couldn't just do that.
They have that exchange.
You had to. It's almost like you were there to promote, but like you had to have a seed
bank there that had all the proper licensing and all the proper hoops and all the proper
everything. And, you know, before at some place like that, you know, Matt or any number
of our buddies would show up with a trunk full of seeds and brochures and all kinds of
stuff. And in the new rules, it's like the distributor has to bring it all.
Yeah. I used to show up with stuff, piles of stuff to give away.
And I couldn't even do that.
You know what I mean? I wouldn't even want to give stuff away.
So they created all these new rules and they created all these regulations and they
created all these fees and taxes.
And it made them a good it made revenue and in terms of like, you know, state fees and
taxes that they got.
But then a few years went by and now who knows what they're going to think, because all
of a sudden they're like reaping what they sowed and they're realizing they didn't
actually set up an industry that's thriving.
Yeah. You can't have an industry that's thriving, that the only way it's thriving is
you give away more of your business to more investors to stay afloat for longer.
That's not. And so what happens is, is when that happens, you know, especially when you
get investors in there, the problem is, is since investors don't come from weed, all of
the cool little side projects, all of the neat little stuff, all of the ways that you
would treat cannabis in order to make it really, really high quality.
They start looking at that as costly and inefficient.
Yeah. And they want to return on their investment.
And then you're not going to make any money at your company unless you give them a
return. Like you have to pay out all this money.
And if you want money left over for you, people start trying to figure out like it's
what happened in Colorado when like everyone was like, oh, I need to get three or four
pounds of light. Yeah.
The most important thing is getting three or four pounds of light because that's the
only way I'm going to get a paycheck.
And that's the only way the investors are going to start breathing off, you know, stop,
stop hunting me.
And what that meant is that all these consumers then are going to get all these
strains that yield that much.
And we're pumped that much.
And we're grown at super high EC and super high CO2 and super everything to like make
them yield like crazy.
And they're like, man, this isn't as nice.
Yeah. But, you know, the economic model is like we want we want to return on our
investment. And the people that took the investment money are like, I need to get
paid. And so what's happened is, is you took a sort of like, I mean, what's funny is
like Dennis Perrone made the made the first medical law in the country with 215 in
California. And it was very loose and it was very gray area.
And you know what?
Can we can we just say thank you, Dennis Perrone.
Like, oh, what an awesome dude.
What an awesome dude.
And he made it for the great, well, a great representative of the gay community for
cannabis, too. And he made it for the consumers.
He made it for the sick patients.
He made it for people that need, you know, especially people in his community that
were, you know, HIV positive and struggling with all of the various ailments that come
along with that, especially in an era when, you know, when he was pushing for it before
they really even had effective medicines to treat it like they do today.
And he made it very loose and sort of gray area ish.
And out of that came a 20 year boom.
Yeah. Of economic activity that revolutionized the state and and
a large way and spread all across the country.
I wish I had the picture ready right now.
Maybe I can find it.
But I have a picture of Dennis Perrone in the late 70s.
And just for the strain nerds that watch this, like that really, really didn't know this.
He's sitting there with bowls of like every exotic cannabis strain you could imagine from
around the world in 1978, like the biggest G on Earth had somehow like he had access
to what we have today, like somehow back then in 1978, sitting there in his little San
Francisco shop, you know, all the different tie sticks and Afghans.
It was wild. So, yeah, the man amazes me.
And I'd like to do an episode on him.
I mean, he's definitely.
And so you take him who basically did this thing that not only helped a bunch of sick
people, but also began to change America's viewpoint on what they thought was both
harmful and dangerous.
And, you know, into something that people now mostly think is fairly benign and actually
positive and kind.
Yeah. And then, you know, we make Proposition 64 and five years into it, the whole thing
is in crisis.
Yeah, it's just a weird.
It's in total crisis.
There's nobody in any aspect of the of the weed game that's particularly happy.
Yeah. You know where I mean, yeah, we even we even have D'Angelo upset about 64 now,
which is really ironic.
Well, I don't think it's ironic.
He was like he was one of the to me again.
I keep going back to this and I know I'm going to sound like I'm ranting a little bit,
but I go back to the he was one of the people that thought, hey, I'm freaking wealthy.
I'm richer than all these dope heads.
I'll come here and take this, you know, a little bit of a culture vulture, in my
opinion, just my opinion, allegedly a culture vulture.
You know, he thought he was rich enough and then he found out, ah, shit, I'm not rich
enough. Everybody.
I mean, I I have a I you know.
I don't usually talk poorly about people.
Matt always tries me to get me to do so.
But even even back in the day and the height of the two fifteen era, he wanted the most
important part of the cannabis chain to be the stores.
Yeah. He wanted the most profitable place to be the stores.
He was always trying to cut off growers and producers and hash makers at the knees.
Yeah. He wanted to buy what he could from them as cheap as possible.
And he wanted to be the central player.
And he is not the only person, but he is a large reason he pushed Proposition 64 very
hard. And I love that.
And he was very big on being the father of legal cannabis and all this, that and everything
else. And the reason why he's changed his tune now is because he realizes, I think, that
the thing that he pushed for is a disaster in a large amount of times.
And he doesn't want to get blamed for it.
And he didn't. And he even I think he even got pushed out from his own company eventually
over time. And that wasn't what he was intending on either.
I think he was intending on ending up being very rich and also getting to do nice Time
magazine pieces on being the father of modern cannabis.
He thought he was going to be some combination of Dennis Perrone, Bob Marley, Willie
Nelson. He was going to be a dog.
All of it. He was going to be an old, well-regarded legend.
People were going to stand up and clap when he went into the room.
He was going to weed for warriors.
He was going to do that same thing when you're a corporate raider, where you do a little
bit of charity so people can pay to talk good about you.
And, you know, he ended up just killing the goose with the golden egg.
You know, this is one thing I've noticed in the Discord with a lot of people, because
we're starting to get like a big community in our in our Patreon Discord, right?
Like it started very small and kind of cozy.
And there are a lot of people really tight and started getting, you know, a little bit
bigger and bigger. And as more people come in, we start getting a newer crowd, people
growing a little bit on the outside reach, just getting into growing.
And somehow they're finding out about us.
And they get really, really shocked when they hear that, you know, like certain people
like Steve D'Angelo may not grow in his
basement or Snoop Dogg doesn't have
all these grows and tables in his
rooms pumping bubblegum cookies.
Right. Like this isn't happening.
And it really this but it's not common sense to everyone.
It's common sense to us as growers that, of course, these people that travel around
to do all this shit aren't growing and don't have mobs.
Why would they? They can't.
I mean, people might think this is funny, but Matt and I talk all the time about like
what to talk about, because some stuff might be like in our in our mind
might be beaten to death by us.
Oh, yeah.
But might not be well known or understood
by the larger populace yet or might just be important enough like the
state of the cannabis spot that you kind of periodically just talk about it
because you've got to keep battering it in.
And, you know, eventually what happens is, is that,
you know, consumers need to force choice.
And what large companies want to do is they want to give you the illusion of choice
while making a ton of money off you.
Yeah.
Right. And cannabis is very unique in that, like if we were going to,
I use this analogy a lot, but if we were going to go into, say, like the supermarket,
almost everything you buy in the supermarket.
If the vegetable or the fruit doesn't meet the production model, it doesn't get grown.
Yeah. Right.
Like, you know, tomatoes aren't rated based on their flavor and their texture.
They're rated based on weight and color.
And does their skin split and do they rot?
And can I pick it green weeks early and ship it across the country and then ripen
it and then sell it?
Yeah. So like the consumer is way far down the list.
And cannabis is unique in that no one ever would choose to grow
OG Kush and a production model.
Yeah. No, they just wouldn't.
No one would choose to grow OG KB or cookies in a production model.
There's lots of strains that have gotten famous that from a production standpoint and
from an ease of growth standpoint, aren't very desirable, but maybe their flavor,
their effect or just the customers like them.
Yeah. Right. And so as a result of that, you know,
people are getting into this business and they're like, well, I want to grow.
We think like they want to grow something that just knocks it out of the park.
They want it to be the biggest. They want it to be fastest.
They want more, more crops a year.
They want more yield.
And if they can just force consumers to take the things that fit within their
production model, they will.
Yeah. And so consumers have to fight for choices.
Right. And right now, consumers aren't educated about their choices in the first
place, like what's out there.
Then that's how stuff gets lost, in my opinion.
Sure. And it's super hard to educate people just coming in.
How do you ever get past the initial, a lot of those people's initial point are the
Snoop Dogg, are the Steve D'Angelo, the Jim Belushi show or any of those things?
That's it. How do you get them here?
What's happened is with Mike Tyson, I'm not even dissing, the only person I'm dissing
that he just mentioned is probably is Steve D'Angelo.
But the rest of them, it's like they're just famous in other aspects of their life.
Maybe you're an actor, maybe you're a musician, maybe you're a famous boxer, maybe
you're whatever. And you already have people that think well of you.
And so often what they do is they license their name and their image and they kick
them some money and some whatever for doing it.
And then they're trying to make a brand.
They're trying to make familiarity with people out there.
Yeah, but what most people are realizing is that most of these brands are really just
buying from third parties.
Yeah, it's a it might they might be all the same thing.
I mean, I don't know. I don't most people probably don't know that for all the cookie
stores, cookies barely doesn't touch weed.
They don't. They make mylar and they make clothing and they and almost all of their
growing is third party grows that they make contracts with and they get a right of first
refusal. Yeah.
Right. They can choose whether or not they want to buy it or not based on whatever
contract they arrange with that person.
But people think that like Berner is out there and like they've got a team of like
excellent growers that have been knocking this stuff out and refining their craft for
the last 15 years.
They really do.
But they don't.
They do. They do not have that.
That's not what they do. That's not their model at all.
You know, their model is to get third parties to I mean, even when it comes to breeding
and stuff like that, you know, they work with J.B.
Zee for a while.
They worked with Chris Compound.
They were they hire out.
They farm out almost all of their work.
Let's let's but let's not confuse people, because realistically, like that farming
out doesn't just stop at the person.
You know, in many cases, like cookies will farm out to someone else to make the seeds
and that person might farm out someone else to make the seeds.
Very much so.
Middleman in the middle of this without naming anyone.
There's so many middlemen in the middle of this.
It's not even right.
It's like they get a contract and they're like, hey, I'm going to make this amount.
I'm willing to give you this percentage of my amount for you to do all the work.
Yes. I've got the contract.
I've got the outlet.
I've got the sale.
Right. I don't really want to do the work.
So how about you do all the work and I'll give you a piece of it.
But you can't do you can't get this deal without me because I have the deal.
Yes. Right.
And so he's right.
There's usually multiple layers at times of farming it out.
Hypothetically, like if there was a company named Schmuckies and one name impound or out
house and they're like, hey, will you make my seeds?
You're like, yeah, but yeah, I'll make those seeds.
And then like they don't even let them know.
And they're like, hey, I'm down here.
Hey, little guy.
Hey, can you make the seeds?
Yeah, I'll give you X amount.
Kick it up. Bang.
I'm a breeder.
I mean, that's been going on in the seed game for a long time.
Yeah. You know, and you know, I mean, that's not even for me to cookies is like a clothing brand and it stores.
Sure. Yeah. Yeah.
You know, and they put they want most.
They don't really have like QC in the way you would think where it's like they don't do all that stuff in house because that affects their ability to
become multi-state operators in some way.
Technically, they are a seed company, though.
I mean, I guess they did release Candy Rain, didn't they?
They did kind of release Candy Rain, I suppose.
But as we know, and we don't have to name names, they farmed out the making of Candy Rain to a third party.
Yes. Yes.
And that third party made them and then they put them in.
They put it in their packaging, just like they might, whatever, you know, whatever it might be, biscotti or cheetah piss or this or that or whatever.
They're going to put it in their branded Mylar.
Yeah. But like the people growing it aren't on their payroll.
Yeah. You know, they contracted it out.
So a lot of these big brands don't actually they're not actually vertical in the sense that they control their own quality.
Yeah. It'd be like if, you know, I don't know if like Gucci was actually like getting all of their stuff from like, you know, there's like seven different Chinese
sweatshops and they didn't actually have any like quality control or anything like that.
You know, and and and, you know, I mean, but that's that's that's the state of it.
And so they don't want they don't want people to know that because it, you know, I mean, I used to joke that 10 years ago or whatever, you know, people thought that like their cookies was like hand watered by burner.
You know, in the Bay, when it was really first coming out that like all the cookies that was there was like from four or five different dudes all carefully curating it and making it happen.
Yeah. And they were early on to realize that like the brand was the thing.
And they could farm out the work and still make a big percentage for being the guy.
Yeah, I think they were very early on in figuring out that everything was a brand.
Branding was everything.
Everything was a brand.
Yeah. And we wasn't ready for that.
Huh? Yeah.
That have you ever seen one of these things in action?
Have you ever seen this real quick?
No, this is what they call an ashtray.
And I heard it.
Yeah. Yeah.
It before we started.
Suck the ball clean.
So I'm going to try it.
We'll see. I don't know.
Let's see. This is one of the C2 glass ones, but I can't always get it to work.
Oh, I guess it had to take a second one.
So loud, isn't it?
It's very non-relaxing.
Yeah, I don't. Maybe I need to love it to get a better suck.
I'm not sure. I don't know if you can see, but it sucked around, but the center is still there.
Oh, well, OK, that was worth a try.
I tried it. Yeah, that's a terrible sound.
It's not how I that's not the sound I want to hear when I'm trying to relax and smoke some cannabis, that's for sure.
No, I wouldn't mind if it did a good job, but that did not work very well.
OK. I had to try it.
I don't know. You had to try it.
And you try it.
OK. Now let's get back to where you were, that was an obnoxious as all hell.
That was a little obnoxious.
Yeah, I don't. Yeah, I didn't know it was going to be that loud, loud, loud.
Yeah, it's like very high RPM.
Yeah. And yeah, right next to the microphone, too.
Indeed. Indeed.
So I don't know. I mean, I like the to the state of the affairs.
It's kind of like what's happened in a nutshell is there's vast overproduction in almost every state.
That gets recreational, right, it happens fairly quickly.
Yeah. And then the glut leads to price wars where stores and distributors start purchasing things based on pricing and margins for themselves.
Which leads to a lack of choice for consumers because they don't get to pick amongst the quality, because the distros and the stores are buying things that are most advantageous for them.
And being like, you know, here's 28 kinds of, you know, these boofy to decent and a couple of things that randomly are nice, but they're all in Mylar so you can't see it.
So hopefully you guess which one's good.
And I'll take your money.
Yeah. Right. And then what happens is, is that you hear all this talk.
This might be pretty political or whatever, but you hear all this talk about how the black market or the traditional market is affecting the legal market.
And the legal market would have a lot better sales and be a lot more robust if we just didn't have all of this black market or all of this traditional market or medical market demand going on, which is hamstringing our new legal industry.
Yeah. And they mostly blame it on cartel black market specifically.
And I mean, whatever you want to say.
Well, they just try to intertwine that propaganda is the same thing.
And it just, yeah.
So this might get me in trouble, but I think, I think it's actually reversed.
Yes, I do too.
So, and what I mean by that is that I think that it's very true that the white market people would all like all of the black market producers to stop.
Yep.
And they, they, they want the supply of the black market to stop, but that's not because they think that there would be hordes of new people pouring into the stores that would robustly boost up their white market sales.
It's so that they can take their excess and dump it into the market share that was formerly being supplied by the traditional.
Yeah.
And I think what happened in California is the first couple of years as this overproduction problem happened, there was a lot of diversion that people didn't, people don't want to admit that metric is both cumbersome, expensive, and super ineffective.
Yeah.
Like it's an open secret in the industry, how poorly metric works at keeping things where it's supposed to be kept.
Poorly porous.
We don't need to get into the, the hook chorus and it's not, and, and, and anyone that wants to can get around it.
Sure.
And so most large and medium sized companies that aren't legacy and aren't fairly small, end up having to divert a decent portion of what they make into the black.
Yeah.
And that worked for a few years until production and overproduction got to a point where they started having difficulty doing that.
And so their complaints that the black market is messing them up.
Isn't about their white market sales.
Yeah.
It's about their traditional diversionary sales.
Yeah.
In my opinion.
No, no, it makes sense.
Yeah.
Because what they want is they want the traditional supply to go away so that the traditional demand is more robust for them to supply.
Yeah.
Because obviously, because otherwise we'll keep being smokers.
I mean, there's this thing that like, you know, Matt and I were looking at not long ago where like this past year, Canada, which has gone totally legal.
They destroyed like 425 million grams of unsold cannabis that had expired, which was 28% of the yearly crop that had been produced in the past 12 months.
And I think that worked out to like, what was it like nine?
I don't even, it was like 916 tons or something.
It was like, it was an enormous amount, whatever anyone who wants to do the math.
I'm like, you can look it up.
You know, Canada destroys 425 million grams or something.
And so they actually, what that means for Canada though, is that means whatever system Canada has, they're actually preventing a large, at least that amount of it from being diverted.
And then it's sitting there and then it eventually gets old and expires and then they light it on fire and get rid of it.
Yeah.
I haven't heard, maybe I'm wrong, but I haven't heard of a single recreational state that has had to step in and destroy a bunch of expired cannabis products of any kind.
I don't know of any, I hear of a lot of people sitting on a lot of stuff, but I don't know if that's even, I don't know what market that is when I hear that.
You know, but there should be, maybe, maybe there's not.
I mean, there's eventually there's rules where it's probably too old.
Yeah.
You know, and so I'm not even trying to call people out or anything like that.
They're just trying to like, they get into business, they set up a 500 lighter, you know, and all of a sudden they realize that, you know, they're growing seven, 800 pounds a rip five times a year.
And there's not enough demand with all the other indoors going around for them to off all of their product into the white.
There's just not.
And, you know, I mean, I think a lot of it too, like, I mean, a big portion of it started because it was, it was people in the, the white.
Like the, the people with the financing talking to the very first people in cannabis that they meet who could be any Tom, Dick, or Harry there that has the balls to say that they have run X amount of lights that hasn't run any light.
Cause I mean, realistically, how many guys, uh, pre two 15 were running, you know, a hundred lighters, but how many people stuck up their hands and said, I can run that.
I mean, there's a bunch of people that stuck up their hand and said, I can run five acres.
Yeah.
That's a major fucking problem.
No, I know how to run.
I know how to run a crew of 70.
And like I said, that's a major problem.
And that's, that almost reaches to the disconnect that I've been speaking about with the, the legacy strains and, and the universities is that there's still that disconnect.
There's that disconnect between the people with the money or financing or the people with the science that are writing the history books and the traditional market that's done this all along because everybody's trying to work everybody, you know, in between the middlemen are all trying to get between and work between the two.
And these two have never spoken.
I really feel like there's very little communications ever gone on without these, these shifty ass middlemen.
Well, if you want, if you want, yeah, if you want to take a, a, like a, a free market approach, you know, to it.
Yeah.
Dennis Perrone's version was very lightly regulated, the light touch of government and let, you know, human ingenuity and commerce built.
Yeah.
And the legal situation has been, in my opinion, legal is actually the wrong word.
It's more like highly taxed, highly regulated, very controlled.
And as a result of that, they've created so many different barriers and so many different inefficiencies that you have these people that are exploiting all these different inefficiencies.
And so you go and you can go in states from gluts where nobody can make any money and the price of cannabis falls below the cost of production to, you know, droughts where it spikes briefly, you know, and people are getting crazy dollars for different things because it's all volatile.
And then, you know, it's just not, it's not open and fair.
And so as a result of that, you know, there's like, I think there's like 40 million people in California.
I don't even think there's a thousand legal stores.
Yeah, I have no clue.
And as you know, like you're in a different part of California than I am.
There's all kinds of counties, especially in the Eastern part of California that have banned dispensaries anyway.
Yeah, I don't think we have any here.
It has to be outside our county.
Dispensaries are mostly a coastal county phenomenon.
All the way from San Diego up to Humboldt.
If your county touches the ocean, you probably have a dispensary.
And if your county is along or east of the five, you probably don't.
Yeah, that's pretty much it, huh?
You know, so you give all these people that have opted out where it's like, so like they allowed massive production to take place because they collected all this upfront money.
And then they restricted the hell out of where it could be sold.
So you have a glut and you give a lot of power to the dispensaries and a lot of power to the distros.
Yeah.
Right, where before distros didn't even need to exist.
A farmer could go directly to a dispensary and they could make a deal.
Yeah, you're right.
Now you have to have another middleman.
Now you have to have in California, you have to have a special delivery license.
If I'm a farmer and I want to drive my product to a dispensary, I have to have a delivery license.
Otherwise, it's not legal for me to have it on the road.
It's okay.
It was grown on my own farm.
It's only legal on my property.
I can't.
I mean, as kids, right, we watched the movie Robin Hood, Disney movie Robin Hood, and we all saw King John or, you know, or no, the Sheriff of Nottingham.
We all knew that motherfucker would come around and tax people for their money.
Even as kids, we knew that doesn't make any sense.
That's not that man's money.
Give that man his money back.
But as adults, we've all made this invisible agreement that this is okay.
The shakedown that's going on is cool.
Well, maybe it's just my punk rock ethos.
That's your punk rock ethos.
I think a lot of people-
I want people to choose when I get shook down by where that money goes.
Five years ago, I think there was a lot of people that, despite their reservations in 64, were like, you know, this could suck in a variety of ways.
But at least I'll be able to make a living, support my family, put my money in the bank, never get raided.
Right?
My kids won't ever-
Nobody will know what a go bag is.
Yeah.
And for people that don't know, up here, a go bag used to be, you would have a bag packed with a bunch of stuff.
Essentials.
Essentials for you or maybe your family.
And your family would know that if you got raided, go run into the woods and hide.
Yeah.
Grab the money, go home.
Your go bag is going to get you to the neighbors, or it's going to allow you to survive for a day or two until they leave and you can come back safely.
And there was a bunch of people that didn't want that stress.
And they were like, okay, well, this deal seems kind of crappy.
But at least I'll be able to legally support my family, put my money in the bank, and just have a normal business.
That's fair.
A lot of these people had PTSD.
Like real, genuine PTSD from being raided and having their family's lives upturned.
It sucks.
That's fair.
Yeah.
I can tell you, it sucks.
It's an occupational hazard.
You know, if you're a miner, maybe you get black lung.
If you're an office worker, maybe you get carpal tunnel.
You know, if you're a rug layer or a roofer, maybe you blow out your back or have a herniated disc.
You know, if you were a cannabis farmer, even if you were like fully, fully legal and selling all of your product to a dispensary, just like 215 intended and all that.
Yeah.
The cops could still hit you and be like, you're going to jail.
Yeah, they don't care.
That doesn't mean that you might not win in court, but you still got raided and went to jail.
And your plants are all gone.
And your house is gone.
Your life is gone.
They took what they wanted and now you're fighting it out.
And so, you know, people thought initially, but what's happened now is it's like, you know, it's gone on long enough where that's the reason why a lot of these, a lot of these, you know, up here in my area, four or five years ago, people used to sell cannabis properties at a premium.
Yeah.
Like, oh my God, look at this ranch.
It's fully developed.
It's turnkey.
It's got all this grow on it.
You can come in and you can make, you know, you have a turnkey business and now you see a bunch of these same properties and they're like way less.
Oh my God.
Because, you know, a lot of times it's like, it's a losing money proposition.
Yeah.
They took something that took a ton of Californians and a ton of rural areas and brought them out of poverty and created an enormous amount of economic activity, both in the rural areas and in the cities.
And they somehow, like I said before, they killed the goose that legged the golden egg and nobody wants to admit, nobody wants to admit that they made a bunch of mistakes and how they're going to redo it.
But what's going to happen in the next couple of years is I think they're going to, you're going to see like this thing has been propped up by a bunch of investor money getting poured into it.
Yeah.
And when that investor money stops, right, which it's starting to stop because when you start seeing investors start suing people, it's because they've realized they've given up hope that they're going to, now they're worried about their principal investment.
Yeah.
Right.
When they go from like, oh, I'm going to make a ton of money.
Yeah.
A lot of worried about, I'm going to try to recoup what I can.
I'm going to try to recoup, you know, I'm going to try to mitigate my losses.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah.
Right.
And so as a result of that, if that's the case, then you're going to see a bunch of contraction, right.
And you know, it, I think most people, if you asked most smokers that have been around that at least have been smoking since say like 2008, they would probably tell you they preferred the stores in the two 15 era.
Oh yeah.
As far as quality and diversity of what they had access to.
Yeah.
I mean, just the things you could do, like you could in two 15 era, you could run a breeding project in like your fricking dispensary.
Like it didn't, you know what I mean?
Well, the other thing that I should say.
You could also get popped, like you could get popped that day, but everybody knew like, okay, you get popped, everybody bails out real quick, a week later, run your shit and you're back.
And then another six months, you do the same shit.
Everybody.
Maybe I should make a political statement.
Do it.
I like it.
In my opinion, like the biggest thing that, you know, you were talking about that article and like studying Delta eight and Delta 10 and THC and harm to children or whatever.
And, and legacy strains, the biggest thing they could do for legacy strains.
They don't need some $20 million university study program.
They could just make it be like, okay, if you're, if you want to beat non-commercial cannabis, right.
I don't care if you have a breeding program with 200 plants in your backyard.
Yeah.
Now, the reason why they're scared to do that is because they're scared that you're going to grow 205 pound plants and grow, you know, a literal, you know, they're going to grow a thousand pounds of weed and you're going to sell it on the black market.
And you're going to make a ton of money and how they're going to differentiate.
Yeah.
But if you look at like the heirloom vegetables, like Baker Creek or any of those people, right.
The reason why all those heirloom vegetables survived was because there was a bunch of enthusiasts that were able to breed and grow and trade seeds and trade cultivars and do all this stuff with zero government care regulation.
And without worrying about getting their family.
And without.
Raided.
Yeah.
No.
So if you want to preserve the legacy, allow all the weed nerds to have whatever plant count they want.
Yeah.
Like if you're not selling it and you want to have 500 plants in your garage, let them.
If you want to do a big seed pop and hunt for rare traits you're after and try to create a new strain, let them.
You know, you can still make rules where like, you're not allowed to send this out of state or we don't want you to sell it or, you know, we don't want you to this or that.
But, you know, failing that it's like if they, if they want preservation of genetics, they should make rules that allow legally you to do that.
And it doesn't have to have this super taxed, super regulated commercial only legality.
Because that's essentially what they've done is they're like, if you know, it's only legal if you're commercially paying them.
Like I think a private farmer right now can have like four or six plants or something.
That's called a shakedown.
That's not, that's not called, that's not saving moms that you care about.
That's not popping a bunch of seeds and doing a pheno hunt.
That's not saving things from the pheno hunt.
That's not being like, oh, I just popped, you know, 50 seeds of riots, you know, whatever hybrid, you know, strawberry switchblade.
Yeah.
And there's 10 of them I like that I want to run again and compare them.
There's no doing that.
There's no doing that anymore.
That's illegal.
Even if you want to do that enough in a four by eight tent.
Yeah.
And a two by two space you couldn't, and you're growing them little popsicles.
That's, that's not legal.
It's preposterous.
So the biggest thing that they could do for legacy is let all the weed nerds and let all the preservationists and let all the people that have all that stuff, give them the freedom to play around with weed non-commercially.
Yeah.
Which is what every other vegetable and fruit can do.
Yeah.
As long as they make it, it's only legal.
If you want to have this extremely expensive to maintain and set up business.
There's a lot of non-commercial cannabis that might have value later on that we don't even know about.
Yeah.
There could be cancer curing compounds.
There could be, there could be ones that are better for glaucoma.
There could be ones that are better for nausea or HIV or this or that or whatever.
Just don't even think that's anybody's concern except maybe the PhD academics that are looking into it.
But I don't think they, again, there's that disconnect of these middlemen that have made this big wall between the two.
But if you allow us to preserve legally, then we'll do it.
And the PhDs and all the testing and all that, that can happen later because we're already doing it for ourselves.
They're just so bad at letting, taking something, the government taking something and then being like, all right, you're right.
Let's give it back.
If you want.
It doesn't happen.
All right.
So if you want me to be like real political, like going back to Overgrow, right?
Which was Overgrow and Cannabis World were the first two really big forums where people that didn't know each other could gather and talk about
weed, right?
Yeah.
And the whole Overgrow concept was literally if everyone grows, we're going to overgrow the government's ability to criminalize all of us and they'll have to change it.
To police it.
Yeah.
Like if there's enough civil disobedience going on where we're like, this law sucks, right?
And enough people do it, they can't jail the entire population.
They can't even jail most of the population.
They can only jail a tiny fraction.
Yeah.
Right?
And so, you know, like I don't think the fight has is over at all.
Like my whole life, it's over my whole life.
They've been like, you're wrong.
You're wrong.
You're wrong.
You can't have it.
You're evil for having it.
You're a scumbag.
No, you're bad.
Stop.
And now they're like, hey, this thing you got, it's pretty cool.
If you want, we'll take it from here.
If you want to give us all your knowledge and all your strains and all your seeds and all that,
and let us eat and let us commercially, you will take, you did a good job.
You're good.
You'll, we'll take it from here.
Yeah.
And so I think, I don't think the fight is over.
I think the fight has changed and that they're losing.
And so they're finally starting to give us medical and recreational at a wide scale.
I guess, I guess for my, again, my point of view being very, the punk rock kind of point
of view, it's like, I didn't give a shit what they thought then when it was illegal.
And I don't give a shit what they think now when it's legal.
Right.
However, this is what you got to re this is what you got to realize though.
Yeah.
Is that when they didn't want us to have it at all, that made it a lot more lucrative.
Yes.
And as such that it was lucrative, it allowed us to fund our insurgency, if you will.
That is true.
Yeah.
Right.
It allowed us to fund seed making clone, clone saving, clone sharing, you know,
it allowed us to fund our punk rock side of things.
Absolutely.
So your fear that you talked about before is that, you know, they crashed the price so much
that the people that are trying to enact change can't self fund.
Correct.
Yeah.
You know, like, I mean, take it from like, obviously, like, like the weed fight that
we're doing is totally nonviolent.
But I often wonder, like, when the American government was in Afghanistan, like, would
we have would we have beaten the Taliban if the Taliban didn't have hashish and opium
to fund their operations?
Yeah, who knows?
You know?
Yeah.
Um, you know, in the sense that, like, you know, they were able to get, you know, at
some point, I can't remember when, but it was like, I read this thing where, like, you
know, we were three, four years into the into the fight over there.
And they were like, Afghanistan is producing 90% of the world's heroin.
Well, obviously, who was who was making that money?
Our government usually.
But I just mean that, like, it allowed those like, you know, like a resistance movement
has to have some level of funding.
Yeah, as I understood it, it was the Taliban trying to clear it out because they were
religious fundamentalists and us protecting it.
I mean, who knows what went on over there.
I definitely think that, you know, they might I don't know if they're clearing it out again,
but it's like any kind of movement needs something to fund itself.
So we maybe it was a bad analogy or whatever, but they were able to I mean, they were able
to use the hash trade and weed or maybe they weren't even all that involved in it.
And they just took protection money.
Yeah, I'm sure that was going on.
Yeah, from the farmers and the dealers and the people that needed to use the trade routes
or whatever else.
Yeah.
And so, you know, in the 215 era and in the illegal era, it was much smaller, but it was
also much more profitable.
And so if you stayed hidden, you could kind of do what you wanted.
Yeah.
Now I think they're trying to trick us by being like, OK, we'll give you what you want,
but it's only kind of what you want.
And it's basically us taking most of what you want.
But we'll take away some of the fear of you getting in trouble.
And in return, you'll give up your hope.
Yeah.
And yeah, allow us to just, you know, to just take this over from you.
Yeah.
And so we got the growing side.
We'll let you smoke, but we got the we got the we got the backside.
You can smoke.
Yeah.
And so to me, it's like until I'm able to grow weed in my backyard, like I'm able to
grow cucumbers or tomatoes or whatever.
Like, think about before Whole Foods and before the 20 years ago when, like, the the organic
revolution really, like, took hold in America and got like more mainstream.
Like all the people doing all those heirloom vegetables and fruits and stuff were all a
bunch of crunchy hippies.
Yeah.
And back to nature types and weird little farmers and stuff.
Most people didn't even know that was going on.
And little co-ops.
Yeah, it was little co-ops.
There was little things going on.
There was small groups of enthusiasts that kept all that stuff alive until big companies
were like, oh, people want this.
OK, we'll carry some.
Yeah.
Right.
But we in order for weed to have that happen, they need to allow the enthusiasts.
They need to allow the people with passion.
They need to allow the people with a touch of the tism, you know, who get into it like
that deeply and care that deeply about lineage and strains and history and old things to
preserve it.
How do you see that happening?
That's how I that's that's what I just said.
I think that we need to go from like a we need to make it actually legal.
I mean, how do we get lobbyists?
I mean, that's how people get things legal.
How do people like us, the strain nerves, how do we assemble?
Well, we're not in that power.
We're in a dark time in the moment because they changed all the rules on us by partially
giving us what we wanted.
Yes.
And now everyone's realizing that was a little bit of like fool's gold.
Right.
And where do we go from here?
Yeah.
And so probably what it's going to take is what I think is going to happen is they're
not going to they're not going to really start to look at changing all the rules and
regulations until until the states start failing and get embarrassed.
Yeah, I can see that.
Like I've consulted on some pretty big projects here and there.
And like when I talk to people in big ag.
Yeah.
They just can't believe the rules and regulations and bullshit that we have to jump through.
Oh, yeah.
They're used to being able at a large level to cowboy up and kind of do what they want
with wide choices and latitude.
And it's all based on being efficient and having good production models and this and
that.
But the hand of the government is pretty light.
You know, and, you know, that's what we need is we need a light hand right now.
We have a heavy hand.
You know, and there's people that are trying to steal it from us and there's people in
our community that are banding with them, hoping to help them steal it from us, but
to get personally wealthy along the way and make it for them and their family.
And all those people need to get mostly screwed.
Yeah, I'd be nice if they did.
But yeah, a lot of them are.
I mean, let's let's put it this way, right?
Like it is true.
Yeah.
I mean, you know, you could talk about, you know, there's that there's let's put it this
way.
We don't need to name who, right?
Who's he thinking about?
Would you want to be sued by Scots?
Oh, no, no, fear no.
Like a massive corporation with endless money and probably lawyers that are $500 an hour.
Would you want them to come after you?
They win.
They win suits where they're they sound like they're the devil and they win the suits.
Yeah.
And so some of these rich investors are like, you know, you know what Bernie Madoff's problem
was?
He stole from other rich people.
Yeah.
And when they figured it out, they were like, oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
I'm going to call up my $500 an hour lawyer, you know, and I'm going to get his law firm,
you know, and then, you know, you get dozens of people doing this.
That's what's going to happen with a bunch of these investors when they find out that
they poured their money down the toilet.
Oh, yeah.
And they found out that a bunch of a bunch of like non ethical hustlers were sloshing
their money around and not really treating it the right way.
But do you think, you know, so do you think there's a chance that
that any kind of major corporation predicted that this is what would happen?
Because in my opinion, I don't think that this is that out of the realm of logic for
all having taken place, like from watching how alcohol became what it was to now and
stuff and how many people ripped it off and got in the middle between the gray areas and
stuff.
Alcohol is a totally different.
Alcohol is a totally different area.
It is.
It is a totally different scenario.
But look at all the dirty middlemen in between and how many people that were like actually
outlaws doing it got screwed in the end.
That's the whole scenario.
And now it's a commodity.
You can kind of say they got screwed.
But like if you want to I mean, this is getting really off track.
But if you want to look at alcohol, the reason why alcohol got made illegal, if you can look
it up, was because before prohibition, like Americans were the was the drunkest country
on earth.
Right.
There was men drinking gallons upon gallons of whiskey.
There was mass like absences on Mondays on the work week because people were so hung
over from the weekend.
Yeah.
Right.
The abolitionists, the prohibitionists, the reason why they were so against it was because
the level of public drunkenness, like if you just type into Google, like how much they
drank then versus today, it's astronomical.
Right.
And the reason they got rid of it wasn't because they made a big mistake.
It was because they were like, oh, man, like we fueled these criminal groups to where they've
taken over almost every major city and they actually run the cops and they run the mayors
and they're electing and they're doing this and they're doing that.
And everyone's disobeying us, like everyone.
And it's creating this horrific thing.
And like after they got rid of prohibition, it took them an extra 50 or 60 years to break
them up.
Yeah.
I mean, I was just thinking like Kennedy, like I was all the way up into 63 that and
he was alcohol prohibition, like bootleg.
Well, his dad, not him.
Yeah, that's what I'm saying.
But he had political effect all the way up until 63 to get his sons elected.
Oh, and there's almost no doubt that the Chicago mob helped Kennedy get elected and helped
him win Illinois.
And, you know, and I'm not trying to like, you know, divert on a tangent, but like we
has not like.
Alcohol fueled so much money that it corrupted so many police forces, so much government,
so many mayors, so many senators, so many different things that they almost in order
to restore order, they had to stop it.
It was like a massive failure.
And they didn't stop it.
Cannabis, you know, there's not like cannabis, like, you know, criminal groups or whatever
that like own mayors that own the police forces that are like, there's not enough money sloshing
around.
That's true.
No, there's just not that, you know, I mean, like they said, like Al Capone or something
like that, you know, he's worth like, you know, $700 million in today's money or something.
But looking at it just strictly from a business model, it was very easy to predict how it
was going to go.
There was going to be people who thought they were rich enough to play, and then there were
going to be the actual rich people who could take loss that had way more money than the
people that thought they were rich here.
Somewhat.
And take the losses longer and play the longer game.
Because that's economics.
But honestly, you know, like I've consulted for people that I think are incredibly rich
at times.
And like, in order for those incredibly rich people to, you still have to realize that
like, they invest their money in so many different things that like cannabis has to be as good
or better than other places they could put their money.
Oh, sure.
And what they're discovering is that cannabis is actually quite a bit worse.
Yeah.
Than most other places they could put their money.
So cannabis might have extracted a ton of investment out of all these different types
of people.
But eventually there's the situation where like you've been losing money for four or
five years and you're like, oh, I thought that, you know, profit would be around the
corner.
And if it's not, you might just cut bait and start putting that money you are pouring into
into, you know, into something that's going to make you money right away.
Yeah.
That's what I mean.
Like it's economics.
These guys outlast these guys.
Right.
But I don't think that they predict that.
I think there's people that are trying to outlast others, but I think that there's a
lot of losers that thought they would be in the outlast category.
Again, that's economics.
The guys that fall out never think they're going to be the ones that fall out.
They always think they're the richest in the house that are going to be the guys that
are the smartest.
It's almost like, I mean, I could do it.
I could do it.
The thing is, is that like looking at like that, like there's like, you know, New York
just opened up and New York has like five stores open and they're trying to like build
this legal industry.
And there's all these news reports now of like, you know, hundreds of bodegas illegally
selling cannabis that they know is from California.
Yeah, that makes sense.
Yeah.
And they're like, how in the hell are we going to stop this thing?
You know, it's like, they don't, they don't get that.
Like one of the things that alcohol did that was vastly different than cannabis is that
alcohol was made legal at the federal level when they repealed the amendment.
So all 50 states made it legal, right.
And that there were certain counties and there were certain places that are still dry to
this day in Arkansas and, you know, there's Missouri, there's some places in the deep
South that are still dry counties and you can't buy alcohol.
But right now, as long as there's legal counties, not legal counties, legal states, not legal
states, it's going to be chaos and they won't be able to control it.
Yeah, they just won't.
Sure.
I mean, look at Oklahoma, right.
Oklahoma used to be one of the worst places to get caught with cannabis in the entire
United States.
You used to be able to read in the high times that people got caught with like 12 plants
and got 50 years.
Yeah.
Right.
Like it used to be incredibly severe and then they're pretty Republican.
And so they're like, okay, we're just going to like make it legal and we're going to have
almost no government regulation.
Right.
Yeah.
And then they do that for a few years and then they realize that like most of the grows
are cartel or Chinese nationals and they're using Oklahoma as a base to supply all the
illegal states in the Southern part of Southeastern part of the United States and Texas.
What the hell?
There's only 4 million people in Oklahoma.
Yeah.
But they allow like 3000 acres to supply like 4 million people.
Yeah.
And then they're shocked at diversion.
What are you going to do?
What are you going to do?
You know, so.
Yeah.
I mean, I think the fight right now is the people that care are hurting.
Because the game has changed and it's hard to adapt to change that happens really quickly.
And so the parts that Matt and I care about are, you know, I mean, we're for the small guy.
You know, we want, we want it.
We want as much experimentation as possible.
We want people to be able to like, you know, pursue their little dreams or their little
interests.
And, you know, if you want to start a small company and you want to start a small business,
it shouldn't take millions of dollars of outside capital.
Yeah.
Just to get a small one up and running and going.
I didn't.
I think the first thing that really shocked me when I, when I talked to the very first
person that went from, you know, traditional market to legal was how much money it costs
just to get the equipment for the, for the government to surveil you via metric.
Oh yeah.
I mean, I was like, you have to pay all this money just for them to snitch on you?
There's farms in Santa Barbara that have to pay 800 to a million dollars or more just
for their licenses every year.
Yeah.
It's insane.
Just for a 10,000 square foot license, which is the size of a, you know, basically a football
field.
I go back to my Robin Hood comment.
I mean, just it's base logic.
It's all bad.
We know it as at our heart.
We know we shouldn't be getting shut down like that.
You know, honestly, what would happen is if you want, if you, what I think would happen
is that if they actually made a metric that worked and they drew like a big, bright line
where legal couldn't get diverted at all, I think 80 to 90, I think 80% of the farms in
the state would fail.
Yeah.
And it would be mostly the big farms.
Yeah.
Because they would be unsustainable and it would be the small, smaller farms that are
more, that are more nimble, that are better at growing, that could produce a better quality
product that would honestly probably survive.
You know, I think that it would be a couple big farms, smushing everybody out.
I actually don't think without exportation to other states or other areas, that's actually
feasible.
I think most of those things would fail.
You lived, you live in an area where there is a demand for crafts still, where there
is a quantity of smokers that do care about quality and no quality in the first place
to care about quality.
But if you're in one of these many other cities that aren't one of the Meccas of cannabis,
it wasn't like that.
A lot of people have never seen quality in the first place to know quality.
Oh, I get it.
I wouldn't get it.
I just think that like a small family-
You're just so optimistic.
I don't think I'm optimistic.
God damn you, you're optimistic.
I just think that all these big, big farms are surviving on fresh investment and diversion.
Yeah, I agree.
Because I remember, I'm not going to call it who it is because it's unimportant, but
I was consulting on something and they had a pretty good size farm down South.
One of their sales guys came to me all panicked and he was like, hey, I got all for all the
legal sales for all the dispensaries.
I was like, okay.
And he's like, this is really weird.
And I'm like, what's weird?
If we hit the numbers you say we can hit, we could supply 90% of the state in sales.
He's like, where is it all going?
And I was like-
Good question.
You're starting to figure it out, huh?
Yeah, good question.
And so as a result, I think without exportation, I think all of these huge farms would implode
underneath their own weight.
Yeah.
I think they would.
And the difference between the small family farms up by me and the big farms down there
is the big farms down there are all funded by rich people that can just divert their
money and go do something else.
And the small farms up in Humboldt and Mendo in these different spots, people up here have
no other choice.
That's what I'm saying.
There's no choice.
And that's already happening.
It's already happened.
It's not like we have no time to tape.
Oh, it's already happening.
We can't rewind the tape on what we've lost and the families that have lost stuff.
But it also boomed during 2015.
There was a lot- I don't want to call anybody out again, but there was a lot of rich kids
that came up here and bought properties with their family money and then hired one of their
buddies to run it after a year or two and then ended up living in Santa Rosa or the
Bay or LA or wherever and just taking a percentage because they owned the land that their parents
bought them.
Yeah.
You know, there was a lot of out of town people that bought property up here, you know, because
it just funded their Burning Man lifestyle or funded their Hawaii or funded their this
or that.
It gave them a bunch of free time.
It's like, imagine you could set up a scene and you're like, okay, I'll hire you to run
my spot, but I get it.
It's a 50-50 split.
I'm going to go get these neck tattoos while you do all this work.
You're going to do all this work, but I provide the spot, you know, and you can't afford the
spot, but I can because my parents bought it.
Yeah.
Because they have good credit and they put down the down payment.
It's very typical, though.
You know?
Yeah.
It's very typical.
People don't want to- people don't want to admit it, but there was a bunch of people-
they're all fleeing the county now because their business model failed.
They can't give a percentage for nothing.
Yeah.
You know?
But there was- and there was a lot of middlemen, too, that were making a lot of money not doing
very much.
Yeah.
But I'm just saying the people that are actually willing to work their spot.
Yeah.
You know?
Because I think what would happen is, imagine you have a 40-acre farm.
You know, that could be 41-acre farms.
Or that could be 160,000 square foot farms.
You see what I'm saying?
Yeah.
Like, and those little farms, you know, it's just like, what do you think?
Better weed comes out of a four-lighter or a 500-lighter.
Yeah.
I mean, yeah.
Smaller is- smaller is generally better.
There's like- there is like a size at which you're not going to be able to get
craft anymore.
Nobody wants to agree what that size is because everybody wants to call whatever project they're
on craft.
Yeah.
You know?
Of course.
But let's just face it.
It's like, eventually, it's too big and you're having hired help that aren't as good as you
care for most of your plants.
Yeah.
It's the way it works.
You know?
So I don't- I mean, I'm not even trying to be all that hopeful because it's a very stressful
time.
And I worry that even if like I manage to survive, or not me, or, you know, various people
up in my area manage to survive, most won't.
I don't think it's possible.
Under the current- under the current situation.
And then as a result of that, my community falls into poverty again.
And with that goes the legacy strains.
And that's why I said, like, when I saw that article, to me, like, it's just like, you
are a year and a half too late to even be trying to- I mean, granted, there are a lot
of things left that haven't been lost that are in libraries.
There are still people keeping these.
Not everything is lost.
But there are- so like, if they gave any shits about legacy, anything, they would have been
doing this from the jump.
I don't think they realized.
And the other part of it too is that even if- even if they do have all this money, and
even if like these- even if these like various colleges or whatever are going to start doing
it, does that mean that these like small, you know, preservationists or whatever are
going to like give over their legacy stuff to these researchers?
We already know what's going to happen because we saw it happen in Thailand.
Is it just- is that just a way for wealthy people to collect all the- because the thing
is, is that wealthy people have everything that we don't, except for the knowledge of
how to do a good job, the connections within the community, and the strains, and what's
real and what's not.
Yes.
They can get all the permits, they can hire the construction companies, they can get the
lawyers, they can get- they can do all that.
They just- but when it comes to actually growing it, processing it, trimming it, putting good
weed in the bag, and then knowing what the differences are, they have no idea.
So in a lot of states that have gone legal, they want to hire people to teach them, and
they want to get the strains, and then they want to fire them.
Yeah, that's what they did.
After they have the strains, and after they have the SOPs, and after they have the know-how,
they're like, oh, I don't need you anymore.
So my biggest fear with the legacy study is you could say, oh, it's too little, too late,
they should have done this a while ago, but like, what does that money go to?
What are they going to study?
That's what I'm trying to tell you.
Like, we've already seen what happens with this.
I- like, to me, it's obvious what's going on because they just did this in the Philippines.
Is it another phylo?
Or Thailand, I'm sorry, Thailand.
No, I mean, like, over in Thailand, they have a lady there, as I understand it, allegedly,
not very well tied in by what she's saying and representing as history of Thai strains,
which are really grown by Laotian communities in Thailand, you know.
They now have like four or five, like, land-race legacy strains that you could come get and
get in Thailand only as, you know, like, and they use it like a freaking shopping thing,
like a marketing ploy.
And that's what I, like, we know, like, in my mind, in my heart, I know where they're
going with it, I should say.
I shouldn't say we know.
I think I know where they're going with it.
Because we see, we see this shit all the time.
Like, we saw people go to Oklahoma and all the same people going to Oklahoma are now
in Thailand.
It's like, how many, it's just, everything mimics each other.
They cared about legacy strains in Thailand.
It was a big deal.
It made international news, real international news.
And all of a sudden, they want to fund this thing for legacy strains in here?
People got mad at me about Oklahoma or whatever.
And I have some, I have some prejudices against it because someone I knew pretty well got
in prison there for a very long time in the Grateful Dead era for weed.
But, you know, Matt and I used to joke a little bit that like every disreputable character
in cannabis, like, fell upon Oklahoma as the great new hope, you know?
Yeah.
Yeah.
And that's kind of what, like, what people are chasing is they're bouncing around to
a new state and being like, maybe I can get three to five years out of it before the compression
hits and I can make money and I can bounce around.
Oh, and there's opportunity here.
Oh, there's opportunity there.
Oh, there's opportunity over there.
Oh, there's opportunity there.
Oh, there's opportunity over here.
And maybe there's a window where I can succeed before all these things I know are going to
hit hit and then I can bounce to the next.
I just see like, like this be the opportunity.
And I'm going to say this specifically as an example, because it's something that couldn't
possibly happen because it's going on in Canada.
But like an opportunity for someone like the Bull Rider strain that they really have nothing
to do with at all.
And like, oh, this is a legacy strain.
Hey, perfect time to market these two.
Bam, come get your Bull Rider at the fucking, you know, like, and nothing has anything to
do with anything in the first place.
And all the real legacy growers that have this stuff are like, yeah, yeah, yeah, sure.
And all the scientists are studying that because they're like, hey, you know, and they're the
ones who write the history book.
Again, we won't name names, but like some of the same people that like ran towards the
money first when, you know, when in 2017 and 2018, when this thing started kicking
off, there are probably going to be the people if there's money involved, there'll probably
be the people running towards the end and being like, I can help you with legacy.
Yeah, I know everybody.
I've got the whole deal.
Oh, yeah, I've got a huge collection.
You can hear you pay me this amount and I'll grab these things for you.
And it's like, I don't, I like, I don't care.
You're going to pay me.
So that's fine.
And by the time you figure out I haven't given you what you're supposed to get, who cares?
Yep.
And for any of those people, like perspective people that are in those positions to be hiring
these people, if you see in these people's past resumes, like Colorado, Thailand, like
all this movement through the cannabis states as they go, probably double think it.
That's, that's my best advice I could give you.
Just double think it.
Double, double interview.
Do a second interview.
Give second interviews.
Two interviews for that guy.
I used to have, I used to have this like running joke with friends that like my consultation
thing would be that I would sit next to people and I would listen to the person pitch you.
And then I would talk to them and then I would tell you if they were full of shit or not.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, it's a great way to do it.
You can't tell.
I can tell.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I'll be able to tell, you know, and because it's like one of those things like you and
I know, like you can only, you can fake the talk to people that know nothing.
Yes.
But you sit down in a room with like me or you like, not just like, I'm not trying to
put myself on some pedestal, but I'm just saying you sit down with someone that's been
in weed for their entire life and in these various circles and in these various groups
and knows a lot.
Yeah.
You can either talk the talk or you can't.
Yeah.
And, and the thing that, again, I, I emphasize this almost on every episode, like
it, it used to be more clear to everyone that these people that would sell these people
on these ideas that they, Hey, I've got this rare, rare cut.
It was really easy to then for a person to go, Hey, there's X amount of people with this
cut.
Is this, does this guy have this cut?
He doesn't.
Okay.
He's a liar.
Let's boot him out.
It's very hard to do that.
And for some reason, like I said, the disconnects gotten further and further and further, and
we need to try to seal that up somehow.
And hopefully it's one of those things where it's one of those things where like, if you
in the normal world, let's say that like, you want to hire an accountant, you can go
look at their resume and you can see that they went to school for this.
They got accredited by that.
They passed this test or this board.
They're actually like a bonded or licensed.
And think about like even being a contractor with a contractor license, you know, and a
bond where like they have insurance in case they mess up your house or something.
Right.
There's nothing like that trade style or accreditation style yet with candidates because
we all come out of the shadows.
Yeah.
You need to bring your syndicate when boom.
So everybody can just be like, I'm good at talking and faking it.
Yeah.
No, for real.
Yeah.
That's how it goes.
You know, and a lot of the times when I've been, you know, when I've tried to consult
for people, one of the most frustrating things is you give them good advice and they don't
want to listen to it.
No, I mean, yeah.
Or they don't know who to listen to or they're getting conflicting advice and they don't
have the intelligence, not the intelligence.
That's the wrong word.
They don't have the knowledge of the scene they're in.
Yeah.
To know which advice is better.
Yeah.
And can't have a super hard to do research in.
I almost said intelligence, but intelligence isn't the right word because they could be
super intelligent and knowledgeable about other areas.
Yeah, exactly.
They're just ignorant about weed and that ignorance get used against them because then
it goes into like, well, who sounds good?
Yeah.
You know.
Who puts himself forward the most, who raises their hand a lot and has the best marketing?
You know what I mean?
Who has it, you know?
Most of the people that ran towards the money first in 2018, 2019, they were
we want to get rich.
We're going to go sell our story.
Yeah.
And a lot of those people ended up bouncing around because they'd ends up, they sell their
story, but then a year, year and a half, two years into it, they get fired because they
weren't able to deliver.
I mean, I've seen projects that are on their fifth management group in six years.
That's so wild.
And that's like, they fire people because they're like, oh, these people aren't it.
Yeah.
And then they hire more people that aren't it because they don't have a framework for
how to, for how to tell.
Okay.
Yeah.
So that's it for this week.
Sorry, it was such an abrupt ending.
We have power issues and glitches galore.
So yeah, that's it from us.
Again, thank you so much.
Thank you for listening.
Thank you for your time.
You can join us and chat with Matt and I more on subjects you may or may not care about
when it comes to cannabis.
We have a breeders discord that a breeder syndicate discord that started pretty small
and has been gaining steam.
It's where a lot, it's where a lot of people are chatting about a wide variety of subjects.
Matt and I are both pretty active on there and it's a way to connect and with like-minded
folks.
And that's basically all it is.
So if you want to find a little community to chat about your interests, that's it's
we're a pretty good place.
So look us up.
Matt does usually does the pitch, but it's breeder syndicate 2.0.
That works.
That works.
And again, thank you for your time and we'll see you all soon.
Peace.
All right.
Perfect, dude.
That was good.
Yeah.
I'm down to like 6% on my phone.
I could tell you're petering out.
The 40 minutes of fucking around and fucking getting kicked off and back and forth fucking
sucking my juice.
You, you really should admire.
I had so much restraint.
You want to sit at the table with the syndicate?
Check out our Patreon and our link tree or description below.
Our merch site is officially live.
We have all sorts of shirts, hoodies and goodies to sort you out and shipping is super fast.
And most importantly, the quality is top notch.
I've been saving old designs for years for this purpose.
So please check it out.
Syndicategear.com.
We also have an underground syndicate discord where we get together and solve old strain
history together daily.
It's an amazing community of learning away from IG and it's an amazing resource for old
catalogs and knowledge.
We hope you join our union of breeders and growers.
Come check it out.
