Welcome, welcome, welcome.
I've been sort of pukey all day, so hopefully, uh, hopefully this will go smooth.
Um, I think Natsu made it safe to Oregon last night, but he's not back yet.
Or maybe he is. Maybe he's gonna pop in. I don't know. I haven't talked to him today.
Well, maybe he'll pop up. Hopefully he will.
But soon we will have Chimera from Chimera Seeds.
Um, Legend of the BC Scene.
So yeah, I'm just getting everything ready.
What's a good site? Let's see. Let me see. Let's try, um...
Let's see.
I want to try to find a good site for tests to go over.
And I brought my tablet out just to do that, but...
I have no fucking clue where the internet even is on this tablet.
There it is.
What do you guys think is a good site? Like, uh...
SE Labs or something?
I'm trying to think of a few different ones.
Oh, Chimera will know. Let me see if we can find him yet.
If you're in here, Chimera, just, uh...
Raise your hand.
He's not here yet. Okay.
Wait a little bit more.
My nose recovered from yesterday? What did I do yesterday?
Oh, the scent stuff? I had a headache for a while.
The whole house smelled like, um...
Like artificial grape all night.
Yeah. That was fun, though.
It was very interesting and informative.
Did any of you guys pick up a kit after to try it?
I really want to do another episode where a bunch of us have kits,
and we can all do it so you guys can all type in here, like,
what's going on, what you're smelling, etc.
And get a good handle on it.
How much are they, the kits? I'm seriously having a look.
Whatever they are, they're probably worth it, you know?
Because they're pretty fun.
Yeah, we could do a group workshop over on Discord as well.
Notso's in travel mode.
As far as I know, I haven't talked to him.
He may pop up for all I know, but I haven't heard from him to know.
Hey, Bitter, is Notso home yet? Do you know?
$1.75 for the advanced kit.
Yeah, that's about right. Makes sense.
The site was, um, it's a long, long site.
Paraphernaliasocial.com
So you have to know how to spell paraphernalia, but social.com.
Hmm.
Okay, I'm going to start out. No, actually, I already did it yesterday.
I got to read this thing again.
Once Chimera gets here.
So I can be pro-fesh. You guys like my pro-fesh?
Fucking mode.
The 2.0.
Who's winning a cage match? Me or Inhouse? Come on.
Come on.
Come on. Come on. Don't be silly. Don't be silly.
I don't go beating up on Chad's. I don't do that shit.
That's mean.
I don't even dislike Inhouse that much. I just, I don't like how that situation went.
I really don't. I don't have any respect for him for it.
The terms. Which terms?
The terms. The terps. The terms.
Sorry, we're just waiting. I want to get the crowd up a little bit.
I know Saturdays are weird for us.
Sorry, I didn't watch the fights earlier, too. I was sick.
I didn't even realize they were on so early, but it was a London show.
Looks like Patti Pimblitt fucking choked that dude out.
And Gustafson lost, which sucks.
I like Gus.
Who's the guy that commented and had you change the trademark?
I don't remember the name, dude. It was in an old, you could probably find the post still on Instagram
because it was done in a, unless it's gotten reported because all my shit got reported for a while.
But, yeah, I can't remember the name.
The dude did end up being nice, like at the end of the conversation,
and along the thread we were laughing at each other, but yeah, it started out a little contentious.
Let's see.
Nothing yet? Nothing yet? Nothing yet? Nothing yet.
I'm sure you guys love staring at my ugly fucking head right now.
That's what we all want to see.
What's up?
You guys got any questions in the meantime, till we get started?
So we can kill some time?
Any comments, questions, concerns?
Questions about UFOs? Questions about fucking serial killers?
Questions about whatever. I don't know.
Anything you guys got questions about, I'll take them.
Well, thank you. I try to have the most beautiful noggin possible, but, you know,
I get sick of staring at my fucking head.
I'm staying sober for this one too, because Chimera talks way over my head.
The guy's brilliant, and when it comes to science,
it's really hard to find anyone who is as confident with science and breeding science,
when it comes to that, as him.
So I'm trying to keep my shit together today.
I have not tested out the Purple Pro yet.
I know CSI got one, but I don't think he's had even time to touch it or use it or do anything with it yet.
Is the S or C silent in the word scent?
God, that's a good one.
All the BB stuff you've done, anything without cast cut from Nugs and Jug Days?
I have not. No one ever passed it.
Why didn't you stick your pinky out when you sip your tea?
This is coffee. It's actually half-caff coffee.
Because yesterday I drank full-caff coffee and was up all night.
Steep Hill Labs do cannabinoid interrupt testing?
I don't know much about any of the labs, which is a reason why we're doing the show.
Hopefully Chimera remembers it's on this account and not the other one.
Let's see if I can send an invitation to him somehow.
Let's see. Breeding cannabis.
Okay.
Make sure I got him on the right one.
There he is!
Mr. America!
Oh wait, no, he's not from America.
So welcome.
Hold on, let me get it going.
From Chimera Seeds in a few minutes.
There he is!
Mr. Not from America.
How you doing, dude?
Not bad, how you guys doing?
All right, good to see you.
Notso may or may not show up at some point, but we're going to get started without him.
All good.
All right, so I got to read this.
I'm trying to make it more professional because we're doing the 2.0 Breeder Syndicate and everything.
So I have to read this thing and then we'll get jamming.
Gotcha.
Welcome to Breeder Syndicate where we explore the history of a clandestine scene through the eyes of the folks who lived it.
I'm Matt, the owner of Riot Seeds.
This is Chimera, owner of Chimera Seeds.
Yeah.
Welcome to the underground.
That was so professional.
Yeah, you like that?
Yeah, I really like the game.
Is there a good place to look up the labs aspect?
Like different labs that I could put?
I have my tablet right here.
Yeah, I wonder the best way to do this.
You know what I'm going to do is I'm going to send you a text message with a sample.
Okay.
A report format that I will do with the designing the way it is.
Really, we can use anything, right?
The important thing is that we go through a lab report and show people what are the things to look at.
Obviously in a lab report, there's all this built-in information, right?
So how can you take that information and essentially infer things about the results or see if you can identify problems with what the lab has done?
Yeah.
What you sent me the other day, and I think you got those posted on your IG or something.
Yeah, they're posted on the IG.
Yeah, so people can check those out either now or later.
But like I said, one of the things I said to you back then was that it wasn't really...
Look, those were results that somebody had cut and pasted into a spreadsheet.
Yes, yeah.
So that's an opportunity for anybody to manipulate the data.
Anybody can fuck with it at that point.
A lab report is essentially like a legal document in a way.
Yeah.
Well, they are legal documents.
Oh, they are legal documents?
Yeah.
I didn't know that.
Especially when it comes to like, obviously there's all this environmental testing that needs to be done.
But in the context of regulations, these are legal documents that certify something for the purpose of regulation.
Oh, that makes sense.
But they have to be done to like a good standard, right?
Yeah.
I don't know why I'm not having a lot of luck sending this thing over.
Let me just do it this way.
This is you.
All right, so that'll bring up a picture.
Okay.
And you might want to actually go in and copy the link from the picture.
But this lab report is called the Phytofax.
Okay.
And it's actually developed by Napro.
It's actually, it's an image search.
I don't know what comes up for you, but it's the top left picture.
Okay, one sec.
I got to switch off here because it'll pause me for a second.
One sec.
There we go.
You looked really crazy when you were frozen.
Like you had a really bizarre look.
There we go.
I don't know if it'll even let me show pictures on here now.
You might just have to copy and paste the link in.
Or you know what, we'll put it up on our IG after so people can see.
Yeah, let's put it up on the IG after.
Yeah, so essentially, like, look, when you get back, when most places give you back a lab report,
I mean, we're looking at, even if we're just talking cannabinoids,
you're looking at like minimum 12 chemicals.
Okay.
Because like, I guess it's probably important to talk like a little bit about lab testing.
There's various ways, there's different assays that you can do.
So there's different tests that you can run to try and determine the cannabinoid content of a sample.
Right?
Yeah.
If you put it into a GC, a GC has got something called, what is it called?
The injection port on a GC.
It's like putting, what you do is you take, you take, think about you like you got your bide,
you put it in some alcohol or some methanol or something that's going to extract the cat cannabinoids.
You more or less shake it up.
And then you take like one microliter of the liquid that has now dissolved.
So you've got your ethanol, but now you've got all the stuff that came off the plant.
Yes.
Right? In that liquid.
And so what we want to do is we take, we take a small sample of that liquid,
I'll call it like a thousandth of a milliliter.
And that gets injected into this injection port of the gastrointestinal tract.
And so what that does is it takes the liquid that we have with all of our stuff inside it,
and it makes it into a vapor.
That injection port is heated like 300 degrees.
Yeah.
They are 350 degrees Celsius or whatever.
So the point is, is when you put that shit in, in the, the liq, or sorry,
that liquid into the injector and it becomes a vapor, it automatically decarboxylates.
Yeah.
Right? So you don't, you no longer have, because the cannabis plant doesn't make THC,
it makes THC acid.
We really want to be able to detect the compounds as they were in the, in the plant.
Right?
Because what happens is when stuff gets decarboxylated,
a certain percentage of it like gets destroyed in the conversion process.
It just, yeah.
Right. So it's like,
if you start with like a hundred percent of THC acid or a hundred molecules of THC acid,
and say you lose 20% of those molecules as it gets converted into THC.
Yeah.
And when you get a report at the end that shows 80 milligrams of, you know,
THC or 80 units of THC, that's not what was actually in the sample.
Right. Our testing method has destroyed part of the sample.
And so if you go back and look at like all the cannabinoid testing that's been done,
you know, in the scientific literature, 60s, 70s, 80s, most of it was done on VC.
Right. So the numbers that we see are going to be lower than really what was in the
plant. And so call it like,
roughly after 2000 sometime there might've been like late nineties,
people started realizing, Hey, no,
we need to do this in what's called an HPLC or a high pressure liquid
chromatograph.
And the liquid chromatograph doesn't do that initial decarboxylation step,
right? Because your sample, it gets rather than going into an injection port,
your micro or microliter of liquid sample that we use to extract, you know,
our extraction buffer from the plant that gets injected into like a stream of
other liquid that runs through the machine at like 25, 27, 30 degrees,
right. Maybe 40. So that's not a big deal.
That's not decarboxylating anything.
So the chemicals that are in that in the HPLC and the liquid chromatograph,
they don't change. Right.
So what we're getting if we use that method is an accurate representation of
what's in the sample.
Okay. And so it's a much better technique for using for cannabinoids.
Is that what they use now?
Not all labs are the same, right? So this is kind of the way,
here's the thing is the regulations usually say you have to develop a test that
will accurately quantify cannabinoids.
And that test must be what's called validated.
And validated just means like you run a set of experiments using your,
your, your protocol to show that your protocol is actually measuring what you
say it's measuring. Right. It's like, it's like calibrating your ruler.
It's like proving that your ruler is calibrated. Yeah. Right.
Like you're not saying stuff 12 inches and really it's like, you know,
eight and a half inches or whatever. Right. It's the same kind of thing.
Validation is. And so the regulations say you have to develop a validated method,
but they don't tell you,
you have to use this exact method with this machine and this column and this
solvent and this extraction buffer. Right.
And so what ends up happening is every lab develops and you'll see if you go
and ask them about their methods, a lot of them will come back and say, well,
that's proprietary. We can't disclose to you the way. Right.
And that's a bit of a red flag. Like if I'm in labs, you know,
like I'm not a one-off, like we do it in-house because it gets too expensive,
but to do it as a third party. But if I am working with a third party lab,
we're not just running one or two tests.
Like we're going to be running hundreds of tests. Right.
So we're essentially paying them to generate data for us. Right.
So I need to be sure that the test that you guys are running actually measures
what it says. So I'll go in to a lab and say,
show me all your validation documents. Right.
They won't let you photocopy them, take them with you,
but you can certainly sit down in their office and read through their method.
Right. And we've done this, like when I was working at Napra,
we did this with multiple different labs because Napra was a research lab and we
had dispensary clients that were, so, you know,
growers that we represented would grow the samples.
We would analyze the results. They'd go off to the lab or they go off to the
dispensary,
but the dispensary would be using like one or two or three of the biggest labs
in California for the same samples. Right.
We had our data that we knew was damn solid and we've published the methods so
anybody can go and check out why it's solid.
But it's like we had real confidence in that our results were right,
but we would,
what would happen is because our client would send off the same sample that we
had data for to multiple labs,
we would get back that are essentially duplicate copies of the same results.
Yeah. But with somebody else's data.
Yeah.
So it was generated by something else and you'd see, Oh,
this lab can identify terpeneline or this lab is confusing CBD and CBG.
Oh wow. Right. And like, those are pretty big deals, right?
Yeah. That's a big deal.
Again, like 99.9% of the samples they see are THC only.
So it doesn't really matter whether that tiny little blip is CBD or CBG,
but you know, you'd again,
like if we're saying that this is a legal document that supports the
regulations that have been created to protect cannabis,
like it's kind of an important thing.
Yeah. Yeah. You'd think so. So, yeah.
And so in the, in the gas chromatography,
when they do that kind of sample with the ethanol is that little tiny one
milliliter that they are point whatever milliliters is that homogenous enough
when they pull it to be a great average,
Is that how that works?
Yeah. And it's like, that's a very good question.
So the sampling of the one microliter of thing, like you can,
you can imagine that like every step along that process from taking the flower,
it's actually goes back. It's like, it starts with the sampling procedure.
How did you get the bud out of the bag that it was grown in or out of the lot
that it was grown in? Okay. And so very often what happens is,
you know,
you're going to have a lot of people who are like,
Oh, I'm going to have to do this.
Okay. And so very often what happens is this is like,
listen, everybody's found all sorts of ways to game the system because the
consumer is so THC driven. Yeah.
Everybody is trying to work every single sample angle. Right.
So for example,
growers will go and cherry pick all the biggest,
nicest, beautiful buds out of the thing.
The biggest buds are the top of the plant. They get to,
they're going to have a lot of chemical content. Right.
And so if you want a real number,
of the batch, we developed a sampling method where, you know,
you take one bud this big and one bud this big,
and then one bud this big, and they all get combined together.
Or, you know, so many grams of each,
the whole thing gets blended up and homogenized.
And then you use that homogenized sample to do your extraction. Right.
People don't do it.
Like if you're showing up at SC labs and you're trying to like,
you've got a feed company, you're trying to sell a million seeds.
They go and they chop off the top as a whole.
Top is nice, biggest buds.
And they trim all the like the grainy leafy parts off.
So there's absolutely nothing but resin. Yeah.
And then those pristine, beautiful baby labs go off.
Those samples go off to the left.
You're going to get a higher number. Yeah.
That should be obvious,
but these are the games that end up getting played because the more THC you
got in your sample,
the better the distributors and the retailers and everybody is, you know,
anybody that's THC focused, they're going to get.
Bamboo from that kind of stuff. Right. Yeah. And so, like you said, there's,
there's, that's just sampling the flower. Now it goes to the lab.
Like maybe the lab, like getting paid a decent fee and they like,
put like an extra, you know, 0.5 or 5% extra flower on the scale.
When they go to do the extraction buffer. Like there's,
there's a million ways between the plant and getting, you know,
that, that extra flower.
And then the, the, the, the, the, the, the,
The plant and getting, you know, the,
that injection going into the injection port ways to manipulate the sample.
Yeah. Forget like intentionally manipulating it.
There's also like natural variation and like experimental error that happens
that is going to allow that is going to have unallowed variation.
And so one thing we were talking about the other day is that like,
for example, in Canada,
The regulation says that the THC content in the flower.
Must be whatever's labeled on the, on the bag or the box.
However, it's labeled for THC content. Yeah.
That has to be within plus or minus 15% of the actual amount. Well,
so that's like, if it's 20% and it's actual 20%,
50% of 20 is three.
So that means that like 23 to 17 or 17 to 23 is actually like that plus or
minus 15% window on either side of 20. Right. Yeah.
So like it's important for people to understand that like with allowed error
that's to be expected,
there's really no difference between 17% and 23%.
And again, that would apply like between 30 and 24, right? Like,
well, yeah. As you go up, like, yeah. 30 now, you know,
what 50% of 30 is four and a half percent. Right.
So you've got like 34% down to like, what is it? 26, five and a half.
Right. 25 and a half. Yeah. Yeah. So like that's a huge fucking rate.
Yeah. As you get higher, it gets whiter. Yeah.
And listen, that is cannabinoids.
Cannabinoids are typically regulated by regulation.
Like the regulator, whoever makes the rules for the, you know,
to set up a legal program says, Hey,
can have an oil lab tests have to be with plus or minus within plus or minus
15%. That's what, that's going to be our allowed range. So your,
your assay that are that protocol that your lab designs to generate this thing,
it has to hit between these two or go both. Well,
like for example, turps aren't regulated in Canada, right?
Turps aren't considered cannabinoids? No, they're not. Okay.
They're cannabinoids are a specific class that bind to the cannabinoid
receptor. And it's arguably like only beta carry off when binds to one.
But there are, there are different chemical class, but like, you know,
all of us, all the producers and retailers,
they want that terpene info on the label. Right.
It is somewhat informative to the consumer. So it's,
it's another way that you can differentiate your products and say, Hey,
mine's different because this is the chemical. Well, yeah.
Turpinoids are terpenes aren't regulated in the system.
Like there is no requirement to analyze and disclose the amount of terpene
content on a flower. It's like, it's purely an extra thing. Yeah.
So because they're not regulated molecules,
there's no fucking regulations that says, Hey,
it has to be within 15% allowable range limit.
So in Canada, and I'm sure it's, I don't, I don't know exactly what it is.
It probably varies by district in the state, but at least in Canada,
because they're not regulated labs set their own allowable acceptable range.
So I validated one labs method and I was reading through their described
allowable ranges, 30% plus or minus. Jesus.
So you've got like, let's call it like, well,
let's call it 6% turps. Yeah.
A third is like two out of those six. So that's essentially saying like,
you know, 2% on either side of six, that's like from four to 8% range. Yeah.
The lab can't really differentiate between the difference between those two
things. Right. Yeah.
Like that's a bummer. That's a huge bummer.
I don't think people understand that because you know,
when some of these labs publish the results, they're like, Oh,
you have like 3.479 milligrams of turf or 3.579%
Myrcene. Yeah. Right. Well, it's like, dude, if it's 30% off,
why the hell are we measuring it down to three decimals? Yeah,
that's true. That's wild. Yeah. It's insane. Right. It's like,
you just, it's so dumb. But again,
you have to realize there's a difference between accurately labeling what's
labeling the information on a product versus how can you stick information on
a label of a product to sway a consumer's buying preference. Right.
And clearly those aren't the same thing. No. Right. So it, not at all.
It's kind of, I think it's really,
well for anybody watching, like if you're just basing things on THC numbers,
you're getting fooled. Like you're getting bamboozled. Right. Yeah.
You're getting, you're having your marketing emotions played with. Right.
And this is what companies do.
So understanding that all in context,
maybe let's think about going back and looking at like a laboratory. Right.
And so in the, in the numbers that you cited,
one of the things I found really interesting was, you know,
whenever I look at a lab report, my first thing is, I don't even,
like everybody goes to straight THC or straight to terpene content or whatever.
I don't know. I go, who, who is the lab? Yeah. Right. Who's the lab?
Are these guys trustworthy or not?
And you have like a thousand lab reports or 2000 lab reports.
You start to say, Hey, these guys always have like, you know,
like all of the Roosevelt's or like 30,000 lab reports.
And you start to look at the lab reports and you start to say,
Hey, these guys always have like, you know,
like all of the Roosevelt's or like 33 to 38% THC. Like, yeah.
Yeah. I applied that same logic to seed companies, you know,
like I see them working with things like 40 different things that have been
non-existent for 40 years. And I'm like, okay, well, full of shit, you know?
Yeah.
Yeah. And it's marketing. Right. And the thing is too,
like the other thing you got to keep in mind too, it's like,
when we see these huge THC scores, like 30 plus percent THC acid,
that's a huge amount. Yeah.
There really is like a fucking massive amount for a plant to produce.
That was one flower on one run. Right.
That's really what was sampled.
If you follow that cultivar back through five, 10 cycles,
like you'll see 28, 26. Right.
The one that always appears on the seed bank package says it's 34%.
Oh yeah. Yeah.
Right. So like people got to realize that like,
when you're being fed one of these numbers,
especially if it doesn't come on that certified letterhead legal document,
and they're fine at the bottom. Like if you go down and look at it,
it's signed by the laboratory manager. Right. Cause again,
that's part of this chain of custody thing that happens with regulated shit.
Right. Yeah. So yeah. So check out the lab. Okay.
Yeah.
Secondly, look before even looking at the numbers, like I always like,
you know, I always want to say before I can put any confidence in these numbers,
I need to try and figure out how those numbers were generated. Right.
And so a lab report should say cannabinoids were, were analyzed by HPLC.
Sometimes you get a laboratory back and it says cannabinoids were analyzed by
GC. It's like right there. I'm like, okay, well,
the cannabinoid numbers could be off by 30%. Yeah. Right.
Because we've done those experiments and you can burn up to 30 or 30% of the
total cannabinoid content in an injection port of the GC inject.
Like GCs are not a great instrument for measuring cannabinoids,
even though all the analysis, call it like up to the mid nineties,
was done that way. Right. Yeah. But for terpenes, for example,
it's actually a great way to do it.
And so a lot of very good labs, what they'll do is they'll do,
and you'll do your, you know, you put your bod, grind it up,
homogenize it, take your sample,
put in your ethanol or methanol or whatever your extraction buffer is,
strip out the contents, separate out the solid material.
Now you've got your little liquid with all your goodies in it. Right.
That often gets split into two different samples or you will sample two
different one microliter amounts of the same thing.
Two different one microliter amounts from there.
One goes gets injected into an HPLC for cannabinoids.
A separate one goes into an HPLC or sorry, a GC for terpenoid or terpene.
Okay. Okay.
We actually used to do two different things when we sent the one off to the,
the HPLC, we would take your sample out.
And then we would take one raw sample out of that sub sample.
And the other would get diluted by a factor of 10. So you have nine parts,
nine microliters of the solvent mixed in.
So now what you do is you have a diluted sample and a concentrated sample.
And so the concentrated sample is good for all the very small components that
exist, like, you know, CBC, the CBG,
whatever the little blip cannabinoids are,
essentially you've got one that's like really it's like being able to do that on
those with a magnifying glass.
Your diluted sample for the molecules that are there in abundance, right?
Because if you try to, often if you try to cram those like THC,
like a type one plant that's full of THC,
you cram that through your HPLC and it just, it overloads the detector.
So you wanted to, so as you can see,
all these places are opportunity for error.
Yeah. If you do them very, very carefully, you can actually get incredibly,
incredibly accurate results. Now, if you're like running a thousand,
2000 samples a week that come into your commercial laboratory in California,
that's like three throughput. Yeah. Right. So it's like, you're,
you're essentially breaking down how many can I do in a day? Okay.
Well, if I'm doing that many a day,
maybe I don't have the ability to do it quite as accurately. Yeah. Right.
And so these are the decisions that get made in the labs that no one's thinking
about. Everybody just thinks you drop down your 120 bucks or 150 bucks and you
get a bunch of numbers back and it's proof of. Yeah.
You just toss it in the machine. Bam. Yeah. Yeah. It's not like that. Right.
So it's just important for people to understand the context. Right. So do you,
did you want to go over the standard, what the standard is, how it works?
Yeah. So a chemical, so any machine has to be calibrated. Right.
And how's the best way to explain it when we take,
you got your, so you got your bud. Okay. You get your bud,
call us our extraction buffer. You put a flower in there,
you put in your ethanol and shake it around, blah, blah, blah.
Send out the flower, send out the flower.
I just throw a sample all over the ground.
You send out the flower and you got your, your, your leftover.
What we've got is ethanol or methanol, whatever.
It doesn't matter what you're using.
With all the chemicals that we were able to strip out of the cannabis plant
material. So you've got turf, you've got all the different cannabinoids,
a standard, like,
but we don't know how much of everything is in that sample.
Like it's an unknown amount of unknown chemicals in this sample. Right.
And what we need to do is compare it to a known sample.
And so you can actually order pure THC,
pure ethanol, pure ethanol, pure THC, pure ethanol, pure THC,
pure ethanol, pure THC, pure ethanol, pure THC, pure ethanol, pure THC.
Pure THC from a lab synthesis company.
And these synthesis companies that are allowed to have, you know,
they get a DEA license so that like the cops can have, and they'll,
they'll sell the DEA license so they can synthesize THC and make what are,
what are known as like a chemical standard,
which is usually one milligram of THC into one milliliter of methanol.
Yeah.
Well, methanol is an alcohol, but it's not like ethanol it's poisonous.
So the idea is people won't consume it. So it's,
it's so weird that anybody would like consider the idea to go get THC
standard ethanol and like fucking shoot it or whatever they're doing and do
with it. It's wild.
Yeah. But this is what the DEA,
the context of the DEA is thinking in proaggressive, right? Like,
yeah.
THC and someone's going to try and get high a milligram. Like, dude,
really? Yeah. You know, like, even like a 20% bud is like 200 milligrams.
Yeah. Right. So it's like,
you really you're going to try to anyway, of course you don't,
but that's the theory behind it.
But one milligram in one milliliter of ethanol is legal.
Yeah. It's legal.
People can buy and trade it without having licenses. So
now you have your one milligram milliliter.
You can essentially treat that like your extraction buffer extract the cannabis
plant. You can take like one microliter out of that milliliter,
inject it into your HPLC and you get a peak of a known amount.
And you can say, okay, this peak is,
I know that it's this known amount we're putting in boom.
You know, now I can,
when I run another sample and it has a peak of the same size,
I know that it had the equivalent amount of THC.
So it's a way that you can calibrate your machines. Okay. Got it.
And good labs will do what are called check standards.
Like you run your calibration curve, you get the machine all calibrated.
And then like call it every three or five or maybe 10 runs rather than running
a sample, you run your standard through.
And it makes a terpene standards and cannabinoid standards.
And what that should do is that like now you have throughout your day,
you've got your hundred samples that are going through the lab.
Say every 10, you've got like a snapshot of the machine in calibration.
And if it's out, you can see, oh, Hey,
we caught it while it was getting out of calibration was recalibrated.
That makes sense. It's an important it's for any analytical endeavor where you're
trying to figure out like, Hey,
what's the exact amount of compound in a plant or in a substance you want to
have the ability to come out or to, to validate that number,
confirm that the amount that you're measuring is actually what you're measuring.
Right. Yeah.
So it's a great question because like when my friend Arno has cap is a Dutch
research scientist that was involved in setting up the Dutch system.
And he's a real plant nerd guy.
And he started doing all this research and he wanted to check to see if the
standards from the chemical company or for are what they were, you know,
they're supposed to be one milligram per milliliter.
While he did a whole bunch of tests and showed that the standard,
but it was actually 88 or 0.88 milligrams per liter.
So the, the,
the substance that the guys are selling to all the labs wasn't the right
property calibrated. That means everybody in the industry is off, right.
Or everybody's off. Like this is, we're talking, you know,
I think it was like 20, 2009, but two years ago in Canada,
the same thing happens, right? Like somebody said, Hey, you know,
the rest tech sample that was rest tech as a supplier for standards,
the rest tech samples that everybody uses to calibrate or half the industry
uses to calibrate, they've been wrong for eight months.
And they kept that quiet.
It comes up in the circles, but it isn't like, yeah, it does come up.
If you're it, listen, when that happens, they have to like,
they're legally did send that required. And again,
you're the support industry for a regulated system. Yeah.
You fucked up that's affecting everybody,
how they're complying with the regulations. It's like they have to close.
Right. So it does, it does become known amongst labs. But again,
it's the type of thing that like the labs,
they're not required to disclose to the public. Yeah.
They probably should disclose to their clients, but often they don't.
Right. Yeah. Or it can happen that they don't. So anyway, like,
yeah, that's a chemical standard and you buy a chemical study.
Essentially you're calibrating for cannabinoids. Like, you know,
I was just on the SC lab website,
reading over through some of their stuff.
They, they test for 39 terpenes and terpenoids.
So they've even got the, they,
they either have a standard mix that a chemical supplier supplies,
or they buy individually,
all of those individual terpenes and create their own standard mix that they
used to calibrate the machine.
So you're not only calibrating for THC,
you're calibrating for terps if you're on the test.
For every individual terpene. Wow. Yeah. And like I said, some,
now they've gotten to the point where like, you know,
say Rez tech or someone, one of these terpene or these supply,
chemical supply companies,
they're going to be able to calibrate for a certain amount of terpene.
So they might say, Hey, we've done the mix for you.
Here's 15 terpenes, you know, all the majors or whatever,
the pioneers, terpene, lean, blah, blah, blah.
And you'll buy a pre mixed one of those so that you don't have to
individually go in and create the standard to put it to calibrate your GC.
Yeah. But again,
anytime you're buying a compound that you're not making and you're not
quantifying yourself is a potential risk.
So you're not going to be able to do that.
So you're going to have to do it individually.
Yeah. Absolutely. So yeah, it's a bit of a deal.
So, so when we started looking at your results,
I started going through them.
I realized whoever was generating those results for one,
like again, it was data pasted into a Excel spreadsheet. Yeah.
It wasn't even a lab report. So it's like one, like Ralph,
like how much, I'm not saying it was the numbers were wrong,
but if somebody gave you a spreadsheet,
you're going to have to do a lot of work to get it right.
Yeah.
The second thing I went through and I started looking at what's the ratio of
THC in the plant versus THC acid in the plant,
as you probably know, cannabis doesn't produce THC.
It produces the form THC acid. And so.
Right away,
if you get a lab report back and there's a chunk of THC in there,
like I'm talking more than really a percent. Yeah.
Yeah.
And so I'm like,
I'm like, I'm not going to be able to do that.
I'm not going to be able to do that.
I'm not going to be able to do that.
And so I started looking at the ratio of THC in the plant versus THC acid in
the plant.
And I realized, like,
I'm talking more than really a percent. Yeah.
It's probably been run through a GC.
So it's like, okay.
If the THC numbers are coming out, like, you know, 20% THC, 25, whatever.
That's yeah.
You should see 25% THC acid. Yeah.
You shouldn't see 25% THC. So.
That's interesting.
Just by that one number, you can see, oh, they measured the,
whether or not they measured the cannabinoids through HPLC or through GC.
If it's through GC,
the number is probably wrong because again,
we know that it's a bunch of it gets destroyed in the injector. Right.
So there's things that you can like right off the top, look at, you know,
most people are looking at the, they, they grab a lab report.
They go straight to the THC number and they're like 32. I'm the best.
Yeah. Right. And it's like, that's, you shouldn't be doing that. Right.
Yeah.
Looking at the context of what that number means is all the information
you're getting from the lab report.
It's like,
Yeah.
It's like, you know,
I'm not going to be looking at the context of what that number means.
Is all the information in this lab report consistent.
Right.
And internally consistent, like.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Does it make sense?
And so that was one of the things that's that.
Tweak me a little bit. When I first saw yours, it was like.
They had clearly run an HPLC.
And the GC.
Which is fine. I mean, like I said, if you're using it for the terms,
the GC is fine.
But they were probably,
it looked like they were collecting that cannabinoid data as they were
doing the terpene run as well.
Ah, okay.
So it's like, you know, in my mind, I'm like looking at,
I'm like, ignore that.
Yeah.
Don't even look at that.
Don't even put any credence into it because it's just.
It's weird.
Well, and with me, like when I see something off like that and like,
when it comes to, to terps and lab reports,
the reason I sent it to you, of course, when we talked, I was like,
I don't know. Like, I have no fucking clue. You can read this.
What is it?
But like, yeah, I, I, I, I, I'm like anybody else, you know?
Like I see that and I'm like, wow, THC number. Wow. Cool.
High terp numbers.
Somebody asked me about a year ago, Ryan,
when you start getting skeptical about a lab report.
And I said, when somebody says to me, I have a lab report for you to see.
Right.
You should already be skeptical of the results.
And that's okay.
Like, it's not like you're trying to hate on somebody's report card.
No, but you should be. Yeah.
You have to be.
Yeah.
Like that is the mentality that you have to have.
Are these numbers that I'm looking at really real? Yeah. Right.
Yes.
Because like, again, like, you know, you hear, I hear for a while in,
in Washington, they were calling them THC scores.
It's not a fucking score.
You're going to win a race.
This is an analysis of what's in the flower that you drew. Yeah.
Like, yeah, you played a role in that, but it's mostly genetics. Right.
Like, you know, anyway, it's just funny.
Like, you know, in this world that we're in, like,
there's so much growers ego, right. Or it's like, you know, and it's like,
I really like, let's try to tease those two things apart. Right.
You and how awesome you are from the weeds you grew.
I'm like all for telling people that they grow great weed.
You go great flower. I mean, I'm always impressed.
I don't care who it is. Yeah.
It's like, if you're truly producing the finest, that's great.
Like people like that, in my opinion, are helping the world.
Right. But if you're just growing, like looking for lab reports,
you can run around the world, telling how everybody else who you are.
It doesn't impress me.
Like I've seen enough lab reports that like, I don't like who cares.
Great. You got a, you got a big one. It's like, great.
You know what I mean? Like, yeah, we, if you grow enough plants,
especially from seed, you're going to find some big ones. Yeah.
Right. Big, big, big plants and big, big high numbers.
So I'm like, I'm not going to tell you how many,
but I'm going to tell you how many you're going to find.
So anyway, that's like a good thing to look at. Look at the cannabinoids.
Are you know,
are you seeing neutral cannabinoids or acidic cannabinoids or bone?
Right. You want to be seen.
And you want your neutrals like THC, CBD, CBG.
You want those numbers to be really low. Yeah.
Because that's an indicator that your lab report is good.
And now you sent me like, for example, so you sent me one, one had,
like, I think there was like three and a three and a 4% or turploise.
Yes. Like, I mean, those are, we had a, we had, we called the swag flag.
And it's really like under 1%.
So we would just discard anything that was under 1% terpene content.
Yeah. Because they're, they're not like they're eighties weed.
It's not that they're bad. Yeah.
It's just not the oiliest dankest, like super drippy, oily week. Right.
And so we would just automatically,
and then it comes back to the same thing.
We would just discard anything that was like,
Yeah.
And so we would just automatically anything under,
it doesn't even get considered for the, for, you know, quality.
And then we started, you know, this was a few years ago, but we were,
you know, getting into the four or 5% range and through breeding the highest
turpenoid producing plants,
we were able to get some like outliers that were up to like even 7% or even
eight, which is like ridiculously oily. Yeah.
And then we would just automatically,
which is like ridiculously oily. Yeah.
So, you know, you can do that, but again,
like you really want to have confidence in the lab that you're doing.
And as a, as a breeder, like a home breeder,
it gets really fucking expensive to use 30 party, third party labs.
Cause you're growing a hundred plants.
Like that's like a $10,000 analytical bill. Yeah.
Yeah. In most cases, like even if you were to,
to turn around and sell every gram of that crop, you're not getting like,
yeah. You know, unless you're growing huge plants,
you're not getting that 10 grand back. Yeah. Right.
So doing that kind of breeding has to be funded by people with pockets or
somebody that has an understanding that, Hey,
I'm going to make an investment in this.
And the result that comes out of the end is going to have value. Yeah.
And, and so nowadays,
like you'll see those plants that are like up into the 5%, like 5%.
I'm not going to say the maximum in the market, but like, yeah.
When I see someone with a 5% or even when I consider it might be 30%
inflated, I'm like, wow, good job. You grew that well. Yeah.
When I see eights, I'm really skeptical. Yeah. Again,
they're not possible. I know that they're possible because we've made them.
Yeah. But when it's such an anomaly,
like six lines and all of them are 8%ers. Yeah. That's kind of like, Oh yeah.
You won like $5 billion lotteries in a row.
Like the probability of that is really low. Right.
And so when the probability is really low,
something is probably going on. Right. Yeah. Right.
Like this isn't about calling anybody out or saying whatever your shit stuff
like, you know, somebody show the 38% labs,
the 38% total cannabinoids,
which is like exceptionally high. And it was the lab report.
And I called up Josh, you know, I know Josh and, and Alec from there.
They're two of the owners. I called up Alec and I said, dude, like,
what's up with this number?
Like people are showing this all over IG and sending it to me.
Tell me what's going on with the sample. And he's like,
when we get a number over, you know, I think it was 32 or whatever,
but when they, when they have a number that hits certain thing,
it's go back to the sample, start from the beginning again.
And yeah, full process reanalyze it. They call it a reprep,
run a reprep on that sample. And they do. And it came back, like, you know,
within the same small window that it was like, yeah, it's a real number. Wow.
So you can have these massive fucking numbers where it's like all the stuff
is aligned and the plants treated perfectly and it's the most bang and
genetic and the dry and everything is done perfectly.
And you preserve that beautiful specimen and get it. Yeah.
So when you, when you show me your samples and you have that one that was
higher, all I can tell you is the seems high, doesn't mean it's wrong,
but it's one to look at.
It's anomalous and there's two anomalies in those three samples.
Well, yeah. So, so, so even if it was just based on the numbers,
I would be like, that doesn't mean that they're wrong. Yeah.
No lab report, no signature. It's not even on a lab report, you know,
no lab, never saw anything. It's like all those things combined.
It's like red flag, red flag, red flag, red flag. Right. So absolutely. Yeah.
And like I said, you know,
the only way to really know these things is to run that sample,
that plant to five different grows and analyze it that, that many times.
And kind of see what's the range of what that plant does.
Yeah. I mean, I guess it could be an anomalous,
it could be an anomalous anomalously good grow just that one round.
And that's that only time you'll ever see it. Yeah.
And I think, like,
I think that we can still say that like nobody really knows all the secret
little switches and bells and whittles switches to give a plant,
to make it produce at its optimum, optimum production every single time.
Like, you know, you hit it or you don't.
And sometimes it's like,
there's a lot of clouds or sometimes it's shitty weather and you get, you know,
like whatever it is, like nothing goes perfectly.
The air conditioner goes down, who knows, right?
The kind of things that can go wrong.
So again,
in the context of like a thing I like consumers to know is that like,
it's just to understand that context. Just cause it's like, you know,
like I'm out in the market, you're out in the market.
We're trying to sell seeds.
We're trying to provide good products for people.
And then you got some chump that's been growing for like seven years and
they've got an Instagram page with other,
their crosses and like everything's, you know, I,
you know, my results range from like 32 to 40% THC.
And it's just like,
the reason I want to have these conversations out in public is so that like
the consumers that are watching us,
they can become informed and then when they see the used car sales and seed
pushers that like are everywhere in this fucking market,
every left turn,
like every second account that follows me is something genetics or something
labs. Yeah. Right.
It's all about, it's all about marketing.
It's all about trying to fucking make money. Right. And you know,
I like making a living out of the cannabis would be nice for everybody,
but you know,
I really have taken this to like a stupid level of passion in depth and
like, you know,
I'm not a big fan of the idea of like,
you know, like a, you know,
taking this to like a stupid level of passion in depth.
And it's like, well,
I have to stand beside like Joe Blow that's like spout nonsense.
It's like, I just, you know, and I'm not competing,
not even competing for an audience, but it's like,
I'm at a conference I'm speaking on a panel besides some dude that's like
spout nonsense. And you're just like, Jesus Christ, man.
Yeah. It's hard.
It's hard when you love something that much and you put that many,
that many years into it and just to watch you get bastardized super fast
around you.
Well, yeah. And the only way to do that is to like, you know,
it's to try to explain to people why your shit's different.
Yeah.
Like what you see,
like all this time and energy that I put into learning and understanding all
this stuff, like why it makes a difference in our, our seeds.
Yeah.
And you know, it's,
it's demoralizing to have to sit there and do that.
And the,
but the only way to really have people recognize this to like educate all of
our community, right.
Yeah.
People can be informed and people can like not get caught in the carnival,
get caught up with the carnival barbers.
Yeah.
Right.
So it's abundant.
Well, they're everywhere. It's like, you know,
it's like trying to walk across a field, like avoiding cow patties.
Yeah.
So there's a loose bunch of stuff on labs.
I don't know what other stuff you want to cover or what,
there's questions from the audience or stuff that we want.
Yeah.
Someone, someone asked are inaccurate percentages fabricated by,
by a false standards when using the GC.
What do you mean a standard? Like, so.
No.
Yeah.
Like,
I think the answer is yes, lab results can be falsified.
They can also be.
There are all the time, as we've explained with that 15% thing.
And if you didn't understand and see that go back and watch it.
Yeah.
An inherent amount of normal variation and acceptable.
Laboratory error that influences the end results.
Right. So like.
When you put in the flower.
And you get back that lab report that didn't come from God.
Right. Yeah.
Like I don't believe God that didn't.
Tony didn't hand that down.
The divine and say, this is the divine ultimate truth. Right.
Like, yeah. Yeah.
It's like, Hey, we measured your shit. This is the,
this is the measurement that we got. Here's the number.
And by the way, what you should understand is that that number.
Is like, has an acceptable variation.
On the other side of the question.
Do people,
do people who are in the lab and they're doing lab work,
Yes, absolutely.
In every district.
There have been.
Laboratories.
That have had their bombs spanked because.
Like, it's like you take, like, you know, there was somebody.
In a leafy article, somebody did this.
And laid out like.
A thousand lab reports.
They took all the statistical averages of.
Of all these different labs and everything.
And they took all the statistical averages of all the different labs.
And they put them in a lab.
And they did this.
And they did this.
And they did this.
And they did this.
And they did this.
And they did this.
And they did this.
And put it all together.
So every lab's statistical averages.
Of all these different labs.
And every labs statistical average.
Went on, on a graph with a different color curve.
Right. Oh, wow. You see, like, everybody is all lined over this one specific area.
And then you've got one lab.
That's like shifted to the right.
Their whole curve is like shifted to the right and it's like, okay, well,
what the fuck are these guys doing wrong. Yeah.
Right. And the truth is.
It happens in every district.
get more sales.
Of course.
Therefore there's an incentive for labs
to give higher results because they're a profit,
for profit service.
Yeah.
And there's a benefit for growers to seek those labs out
and maybe pay a little bit more for a higher number.
Yeah.
And so,
I think-
That's a bad design.
Yeah, I think the answer,
you can't go back to that question.
Do labs manipulate?
Let's not say all labs,
but say a percentage of labs do manipulate
and that can be done intentionally or unintentionally.
Yeah.
The way it's set up is right for corruption
if one wants to be corrupt.
It's, you have to,
and again, it's about this passion thing
that we were talking about.
What are you seeking?
Yeah.
Are you seeking to market a product
or are you seeking the ultimate truth?
Yeah.
Are you seeking answers?
Of cannabis understanding?
Right.
And so,
if you're not controlling that agenda,
you're getting played by it, right?
So if you're a consumer-
That's true.
Unless, say for example,
you and I go through all this stuff and you say to me,
dude, I really wanna be high integrity seed bank.
We're gonna do everything the right way.
And you show me that you're doing it the right way.
I'm gonna have more faith in you.
Yeah.
And then if I resonate with that kind of thing
and I say, hey, Matt's doing all the thing.
Look, he's demonstrating that like,
hey, I got this lab report,
but maybe it was a little high.
I don't know.
Like something's questionable.
That shows you got integrity.
If I'm a customer, I'm gonna support that.
Yeah.
Right?
But these are, again,
that's like a value judgment of something that I value.
Other people might not value those things, right?
Like, as you can see,
like a lot of other people are like,
no fuck that, the Jungle Boys is the hottest shit.
I'm gonna go grab whatever they got.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
The value system is not the same.
So anyway, next question.
And the education system's not the same.
I mean, like what we've been trying to do
with the whole Breeder's Syndicate thing has been,
it's been tough because we decided a long time ago,
the only way to combat disinformation
and misinformation is to educate,
but you can't force people to want to educate themselves.
No, you can't.
All you can do is lay it out
for the people that wanna know.
Yeah.
And I've been pushing this ball and pill for a long time.
More people are getting to the point where they wanna know.
Yeah.
Right?
And it's changing, right?
I mean, just it's changing over time,
but it takes time.
And it's like everything, it's like,
what you and I consider good music,
that ain't what's on the top 40, right?
And the cannabis industry is gonna be no different.
Like there's gonna be people that really understand,
they're really passionate,
and they really want that,
and they're beautiful things.
And then there's like the 90%
that are gonna listen to Justin Bieber.
Yeah.
Right?
And smoke Bieber butt.
So.
I have some questions I wanna run through.
It refers to testing,
but it refers to genetic testing.
Are you cool with that?
Yeah, sure.
Okay.
This is kind of a, I don't know.
I mean, I don't know if there's an answer to it necessarily,
but do you know how far we are
in mapping the cannabis genome
as far as are we able to tell real genetic relation
as far as like S1 variation,
and parental lines, father, cousin, sister?
Is that even something in cannabis that you can do?
Yeah, you can do it.
You can't go and like seek that information out.
It's one of the weird things with the phylos,
with phylos going on,
they were doing the run around trying to get samples,
and they actually approached me at one point in time,
and I was like, not interested.
What I will do is I said,
hey, I've got all these self populations.
Why don't I help?
Why don't we look at like 50 individuals
from the self population and then explore the variation?
So then now I've got like, we've shown,
hey, here's like the parental clone.
Here's the heterozygosity by sequencing.
Grow 100 offspring of the selves,
do the same thing to each of them.
They didn't wanna do that shit.
Yeah.
It seemed like that was the most,
what people went to phylos for was that information
more so than anything else.
They were just not, the pitch was great.
It was like, collect your star on the galaxy.
Yeah.
Right, and it was like,
it's kind of like that whole like,
we can show you your name, it'll be up in lights.
Yeah.
Like it's fucking nonsense,
but people fall for that shit, right?
Yeah.
So,
when we, I don't mean we,
but I mean, when humanity first did the human genome project
it was like, oh my God, we're gonna know everything.
We've got the whole genome
so that we'll be able to treat disease.
And it's like, wait a second.
It's like, you've got one white guy.
Yeah.
Right, like, do you think that that encompasses
the genetic variation that exists in like the Jewish
or the African population or like the North African
South Africa or like Asia versus, you know, like wherever.
Right, and so the next evolution that came out of
that was called the thousand genomes project, right?
And it's like, once you got a thousand genomes
now you can start looking at all the different genes
and seeing, okay, here's kind of like a catalog
of the genomic variation that exists in the species.
Or like, at least it gives us a look at,
hey, there's way more variation, right?
And so we're not at the point with cannabis.
Yeah.
There are, you know, folks like medicinal genomics
and some other groups.
I think medicinal genomics probably have, like,
I would say they've been doing it.
I think they've been doing it like more or less the longest.
And they, so they've started to get like, yeah,
you can go in and you're one of their clients
and you paid out your shit sequence.
You can compare, you know, your snips versus other,
essentially snips or genetics misspelling is in a word.
Right?
Yeah.
You can, and because these things are repeated over time,
if you have like a genetic misspelling that happens
in skunk and then you cross it into skunk northern lights
and skunk caves and skunk Afghani,
like you have a probability of finding that misspelling
in all of those different lines, right?
So over time you can use those to build like a family tree.
But what we haven't really done a good job of
at this point yet is saying this small genetic change
results in X.
Right?
So like, we've got a bunch of DNA letters
and we can see a variation of these DNA letters,
but it's like, okay, what does that correlate to in a plant?
We don't know.
Yeah.
Right.
And that's the hard work is correlating the phenotypic data
with the genetic data.
That makes sense.
And that is going to take time.
Yeah. That's gotta be years away.
Yeah.
But it's going to, it's always going to be an ongoing process.
Right.
And with corn, they've done it.
They've got a pretty good job of it now.
And like, listen, we've got like,
we've got what's called an annotated genome,
which means you can look up,
hey, you want to look up like the fatty acid desaturase gene
that is involved in like, you know,
so plant cells, what happens when plants get really cold,
they lose oil content in the cell membranes
and there's a gene involved in that.
Right.
So like I can look up that gene and actually now go
and find out exactly where it is in the cannabis genome,
because they've said, hey, this small section of the,
the chromosome matches up with this gene
in all of the plants.
This is the gene that does this in cannabis.
Right.
So, but like, again, it's like, you know,
that that gene, that segment of the DNA sequence is there.
Do we know what every variant that exists for that gene
and the result of those variants are?
No, we don't know that.
Very interesting.
So we're starting to build that knowledge.
Like one of the things, you know,
McKernan medicinal genomics, McKernan's no dummy.
He looked at, he was like,
oh, we're going to start looking at the cannabinoid
synthase genes.
Like that's going to be one of the first things.
So, you know, they'd sequence the whole genome,
but the first thing that they do,
they take the microscope out.
It's not a microscope or a magnifying glass,
but it's an analogy.
You take the magnifying glass out
and when you look at that region of the genome
that has those genes involved in cannabinoid production,
hey, this one's got a break in the gene
or this one has two copies of the gene.
Right.
So they're starting to tease it apart
for like some of the major genes of interest.
Yeah.
But because they don't grow plants
and they don't do those correlational studies
between genetic data and phenotypes,
they can't generate that kind of data.
Yeah.
Right.
It was slow build.
It was interesting going back and forth
with Phyllos at the very end before they shut their doors
and giving them known parents
and the known children cuts
and watching them come back and say there was no relation.
It was really interesting watching that.
And they put their whole reputation on the line
to do it on top of that.
Well, it makes you wonder what's going on
because I mean, you know they are.
So it's like, did they fuck up the samples in the lab?
Are they not just not running them
and taking your money and telling you?
Right.
Like that could be true too, right?
You have no way of knowing.
You have no way of knowing.
And when we pointed it out, they shut the door.
So I guess, I don't know.
I'd like to see how long their data stays up online,
their datasets, because knowing that,
I would think that if the more that gets out,
the more likely people are to start asking questions.
I had like, listen,
when they first started coming out with their things,
I talked to, you know,
they offered me a job at one point in time.
Yeah.
When I left Napro and came back to Canada,
they were like, well, come work for us at Napro
and just, or at Phyllos.
And just give me like two of your CBG seeds.
I was like, no.
Yeah.
Legalization was happening in Canada.
I was over living out of fucking hotels in the States.
Yeah.
And I just, I didn't value it.
I didn't, there was too many red flags.
Yeah.
Right.
And so like the way that they were going
at collecting their data was wrong.
And just because of, you know, not who I am,
but because of like the position I was in
with knowing a lot of people on the internet
and having access to like, you know, all the known stuff.
I was like, guys, like, I'll just get you all the shit.
Yeah.
And then it's verified cuts.
And you know, when you're doing a camp tonic,
that it came from a guy that read Camp Tonic, right?
Like, yeah, exactly.
You know, and they were like, well, we don't want to do that.
They didn't want real legacy trains.
You know, we got, and it's like, well, why not?
It's like, oh, you want to take people's money
to give them an answer, right?
Because they were running a test
and their cost was 30, a hundred bucks or whatever it was.
And they're charging people hundreds of dollars, right?
So it's like, they're just turning them and burn it.
And in the meantime, they're learning all this stuff
because they see everybody's samples
or like the guy that faced the test,
you only see your sample, right?
So it's like, you understand your genetic data
to whatever degree you can say,
oh, look, there's my star on the galaxy.
Yeah.
Right?
It's kind of like buying an anchor on the moon, right?
Like you can see what the telescope,
we care, it's like fucking useless, right?
Like it doesn't.
Yeah, dude.
So, but anyway, you know, anyway,
it's one of those things where it's like,
I don't know if you're soft to read Tom Sawyer,
but it's like, there's a certain point in time,
he has to paint whitewash the stupid fence
and everybody's like, hey, Tom, can I give you my like Apple
if you let me whitewash some of your fence?
That's kind of what Phylos was doing
when we began this industry, right?
Everybody was lining up like suckers to be,
I remember it all turned like,
because of I did that breeding work from Napro
and then there was the patent that came from it.
Like a lot of people all bent out of shape.
And it was like, you're a fucking Phylos,
you're working with Phylos and patenting all this stuff.
And I was like, wait a second,
all you dumbasses fell into the fucking Phylos trap.
You actively paid to give away your fucking information
to some big genetics company and you're pissed off at me?
Like, why the fuck are you mad at me?
Like you fell into the trap dude, right?
So I don't know, the cannabis community is funny
with that stuff, because it's like, yeah,
like the patents, everybody freaked out about the patents
and now everybody wants a patent, right?
Back there.
Literally everyone.
Yeah.
And like, I think if you truly bred something
and you created something new
and you can get intellectual property protection
by way of a patent, like a plant patent in the States,
fuck, get on with your bad self now.
Why not?
Now it's got to the point of where you almost have to,
if you wanna stay competitive
because the legal market's coming.
And if you don't patent it, someone else will.
It's just, it's gonna happen.
Well, nobody can,
so somebody can't come along and patent your shit.
They can patent something that is the same as your shit
if you didn't get to it in time.
Yeah, sure.
But really like what a patent is,
is saying, hey, this is a unique thing
that I developed is mine.
And it just gives you a stamp that says,
hey, you actually developed that,
because you have to demonstrate how you made it.
Okay.
You have to say, I crossed this and this,
we did these selections,
and there's a whole thing, like a whole description of it.
Do you have to have actual proof that you crossed X, Y, Z
and the proof of all this, like video?
Like, do you know how it works?
It has to stand up in court, right?
Because it can be challenged at any point in time.
So if you don't do a good enough job,
like you might get it past the USPTO,
you might get it past the patent examiner.
And he says, yeah, this thing appears, whatever.
But if somebody comes along and challenges it later,
and they can demonstrate later that,
that, hey, you didn't document well enough.
And there's these things that call
what you said into question,
that comes up in front of the judge.
Yeah.
Who's gonna make a ruling on
whether you actually, the patent is valid.
A patent is a claim, right?
It doesn't mean that you want to fit it.
It's a claim that you own something, right?
Whether you really own it is a matter for the courts.
Yeah.
Right?
And so like any patent can be challenged.
And so if you're gonna go through a patent
and all the effort and expense of getting a patent
for something that you've created,
you should probably do a good job of describing
every, like all your homework.
Every last step.
Yeah, because you wanna lay out the whole story
because the story is what gets published in the patent.
If somebody comes along and says,
yeah, this doesn't make sense in your story,
that's ground for a challenge.
Yeah.
And so that's why when you see, like, you know,
I'm not talking about plant patents,
but if you read some of these patents on like genes,
you know, it's like, or for example, in a chemotype.
So it'll be like, we're patenting every plant
in terpenellin dominance with a type three
or type two, you know, cannabinoid profile,
meaning CBD and CBG.
And that means everything from 1%, 2%, 3%, 4%, 5%,
6%, 7%, and you'll literally see that fucking list out,
like, you know, one through 40%, right?
For clarity that they say,
this patent claims every plant that is 1%, 2%, 3%, 4%.
And it's like, you document it
as tightly controlled as possible.
And the idea that patent attorneys do is like,
you wanna write patents that are defensible in the future.
So you try to close every loophole that you can think of.
Right?
And patents are different than trademarks.
I know Archive run on trademarks.
Yeah, trademarks are, so yeah.
Trademark is how you sell a product.
Okay.
Okay, look, when we start talking
about intellectual property on plants,
it's, wherever the person is watching this in the world,
like if you're in Europe or you're in Canada
or you're in the United States or you're in China,
totally different, okay?
Yeah.
There's something in the,
there's a system that is like accepted all over the world
called UPAW.
And UPAW is essentially the Union
for the Protection of Plant Varieties.
And they're the guys that created this overarching system
that said,
these are the ways that we evaluate to see who owns
or develops a new plant variety.
Yeah.
But it's an international treaty
made by an international organization.
All the countries come together,
most of the countries in the world come together
and have signed this treaty.
But like, for example,
call it like New Zealand,
say they signed on in like the 1974 edition of the treaty
and the United States signed on
in like a later version, call it 1991, right?
Those are made up numbers and dates.
Sure.
You're only beholden to the version of the treaty
to which you signed.
Yeah.
Okay, so, and then when you sign the treaty,
all these, like, for example, they go home,
so there's this international treaty,
the United States signs on the international treaty,
hey, we're gonna be part of this thing.
Now they go back to the United States
and they write a set of legislation
that backs up the treaty.
Yeah.
Well, that legislation is totally unique
to the United States.
You follow the overarching principles
of the umbrella organization, that top level org,
but really every country is a silo with their own system.
Yeah.
And so, patent, plant patents per se,
only exist in the United States and Australia.
Okay, that makes sense.
There is no such thing as a patent plant,
a plant patent in Canada or Europe.
We use breeder's rights,
the breeder's rights system that's overseen by UPAV.
One of the major differences between those two
is that a patent, you don't have to disclose
or make available.
So for example, when we talk about international registration
of plant varieties or plant cultivars,
what that does is, so I develop whatever,
call it like a blueberry sweets,
let's call it blueberry sweets kind of plant,
I find a blueberry sweets kind of plant,
it's totally different.
I register it, I declare the parents,
I do the whole spiel.
Yeah.
But he says, okay, Ryan, this plant is yours,
we recognize that you're the developer of this plant,
this one plant that you selected out of this population.
We're gonna give you a cultivar registration recognition,
so it's a registered cultivar.
What you get out of that is the rights,
you don't get the plant.
Yeah.
So it's like now that plant that I have,
that anybody that wants to grow that plant
anywhere else in the world,
they can grow that plant,
but I get the royalties or, you know,
like I have the rights to the royalties
or whatever profits come from
the development section of that plant.
What you don't get to say is nobody else
can use this plant.
In fact, one of the conditions that you have to do
is make your plant available to other breeders.
Oh, interesting.
Yeah, and the reason is like,
hey, the reasoning from the top level org is,
hey, we recognize that you developed that plant
and it's special and it's awesome and it's unique.
And we're gonna give you 17 years
of economic exclusivity around that plant.
Yeah.
Plant genetic resources are not yours.
Yes.
The entire globe has the right,
everybody on the planet has the right to that plant
for use in the betterment of all plants for humanity.
Therefore, the plant that you have the certification on,
we recognize it as yours,
but you have to share it with everybody else.
Yeah.
Right, and so other people can take my shit
and breed it and improve it.
Yeah.
If I have a patent, I don't have to give it out to anybody.
Okay, I got you.
Right, you can control who gets it.
Right, because it truly is your piece of property.
It's your, you have ownership over that thing.
Gotcha.
That makes more sense.
It's kind of a weird, like unique thing
that happens in the States,
because you guys have these patents.
They're recognized in Australia.
They're not recognized anywhere else in the world.
Not even Canada?
No.
That's funny, yeah.
Oh.
Yeah.
So that's one form of patents.
There's other forms of patents,
like there's utility patents
and there's all this other shit.
But I think, rather than doing a show on patents,
it's just good to recognize that that's
kind of the way it is.
So yeah, get yourself a plant.
You can also do cultivar and variety registration
in the United States.
I think with patents around, why would you?
Yeah.
Right?
The thing about being in part
of the international variety registration
is that you don't only have,
like for you, if you're only growing
and your clients are only in the States, fine.
Doesn't matter, get your patent in the States.
You're protected.
You're protected in the States.
Take that plant to Europe.
Nobody recognizes your IP.
Yeah.
So, you know, you might want,
if you're gonna be doing business internationally,
you might wanna get a form
of intellectual property protection
that is recognized internationally.
So we've got a question for you.
I wanna hear Chimera talk about chitosan,
jasmonic acid and salicylic acid.
Is this something that you know a lot about?
I mean, I know a little bit about it.
I'm not like a plant physiology guy
that I have that stuff on the top of my head.
I mean, they're signaling chemicals, right?
Yeah.
Chitosan is not chitosan as an adjuvant.
That's the molecule that's in the shells of crustaceans.
Right?
Yeah.
So there's some evidence that it does stuff in plants.
That's not my area of specialty.
So I wanna talk to you about,
what is Chimera excited about genetically
that's around right now?
Something you're working on
or something that maybe you saw recently
that you're really stoked on that's novel?
My list, I get off on the variations.
I like new stuff.
I like when our understanding grows, right?
So it's like, because for me in genetics,
it's like, we talked about it a little bit
with Caleb on the Shango show the other day.
But like when you're selfing a plant,
it's not just about looking through the population
and saying, hey, oh, this plant's great
because of whatever.
I wanna understand all the traits in the plant
and how they're inherited.
Right?
And how it's breeding.
It's kind of like being able to take apart machine.
Once you can take it apart and put it back together,
then you can reassemble it in new ways.
Yes.
Right?
And so that's really what,
like when, for example, the file story came out, right?
The scout compound.
Yeah.
Super interesting.
I wanna now be able to go into a breeding program,
take a plant with files, self it,
and see how does the,
like what happens in the distribution
of that file expression in the offspring.
Yeah.
And when you analyze that,
then you can kind of get to understand,
then you can develop a hypothesis
about how that trade is inherited.
Yeah.
Once you know how that trade is inherited,
then you can bring it into any other breeding program.
Sure.
Right?
So that's like kind of what I know.
I'm probably not telling very exciting to people.
No, I mean.
Like, yeah.
That's the kind of stuff that I like.
So, you know, I don't really like,
there's, I have favorites,
but, you know, when I look at cannabis,
I don't really look at it in that,
almost call it like a prejudicial way.
We're segregating plants on quality
and I only like one type.
You know what I mean?
Like I've got my favorite dogs,
but for cannabis,
I see the inherent value in all of it.
Yeah.
Right?
That makes sense.
Even if it's like funky,
like ruderalis stuff with the otter flowering,
I mean, that was like, I collect that stuff, you know?
Yeah.
Like when I'm in Morocco,
I found these plants that are,
there's a hemp variety called panorama.
And essentially the plant grows like a globe.
So like all the branches are completely equal.
So it makes like this round bush.
Oh, wow.
Right?
And this hemp breeder named,
even Boschka years ago,
he developed a variety of it for,
like as an ornamental variety.
It was like the only,
it was at the time,
it was the only ornamental cannabis variety
that had been bred.
Yeah.
And he thought, oh yeah,
people planted their garden,
yeah, with these little weird globe balls.
Anyway, I found a plant like that in Morocco.
And I was like,
well, I can take some seeds out of that sucker
and take it home.
Yeah.
Right?
It's an oddity.
Yeah, it's an oddity.
It's not in the current cannabis,
massive gene pool,
as far as what's being worked with.
You never know what's gonna happen.
It's different.
Like I like the different,
like I really do get off on the variation
that you see in the species.
Yeah.
Because I don't think anybody's done a very good job
at like characterizing the variation that exists
on any given set of traits, right?
No.
When we were at NAPRO,
we started doing a pretty good job on turps.
And then once we,
you know,
we did turps at first
and then we were like,
you know,
you end up with a plant that has the same terpene profile
and you got two plants that are identical,
or that look identical by lab report,
but you smell them,
they're totally different.
You're like, okay,
this is clearly not the whole story.
We need to look at other chemicals
so that you pull out the GCMS
and you start looking for regions between your peaks.
It's like,
what else is in there that we're like just driving over,
right?
We're missing in the analysis.
And then you start looking at that
and then you find,
oh, there's other scent molecules that are involved in,
other molecules with scent that are involved
in our perception of smell.
Because again,
it's like I've used this analogy before,
but it's like,
it's kind of like going to the orchestra
and then turn to the guy that's never heard orchestra music
and saying,
hey, do you hear the oboe?
Yeah.
Right.
It's like,
he perceives that in the overall sound
of what he's perceiving as the sound of the orchestra,
but he hasn't trained himself to be able to like identify
that one note, right?
Yeah.
And scent is an orchestra.
Yeah, it is.
Of molecules, right?
And when we smell those molecules,
we get them all at once that we perceive it as one thing,
but really it's one thing.
It's like,
it's kind of like looking at the Mona Lisa.
It's like, you can say,
yeah, it's one painting.
Well, yeah, it's one painting,
but it's like,
look at all the intricacy that exists in it, right?
All the brush details.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And that's really the difference between,
that's what happens when you,
you know,
I missed the thing last night,
but I imagine it's the kind of stuff
that you guys were talking about last night, right?
Yeah.
We went through his kit
and I went through and smelled each individual one,
like the terpenes,
they're all in different percentages and whatnot,
but yeah, it was fascinating.
There were certain ones that I was smelling like limonene
and a few others that I just,
it totally wasn't what I thought it would be.
Lara-like.
It smells like oranges, doesn't it?
It's like,
yeah, yeah.
There's a few different limonenes in there,
but yeah,
it was wild, man.
He wants to send you one of the full kits too,
if you ever want it.
Cool.
I'll check it out for sure.
Yeah.
He wanted to know,
Crybaby,
I'm curious how somaclonal variants
fit into the whole plant patents
or whole patent sphere.
Somaclonal variants.
Okay, so somaclonal variation is,
let's call it,
it's usually referred to as the genetic variation
that comes out of tissue culture,
but you can,
really,
a somatic cell is like any cell in your body
that is not destined to become like sperm or egg.
Okay.
Right?
So like.
Yeah.
Uh-oh.
Audio cut for a second.
Oh, we dropped.
Sorry.
Sorry.
Arms are just gonna keep going off.
So somaclonal variation is like the variation that exists
as a result of the plant growing.
So like the somatic cell is like any cell in your body,
like I was saying,
that doesn't become a germline cell,
that doesn't become a GAM.
It's not gonna become a GAM-y.
Yeah.
Okay.
In plants,
we talk about it from what we see,
the variation that exists
when plants come out of tissue culture,
there's a variant that we recognize as a phenotypic variant,
which we're noticing a change in morphology.
Yeah.
Probably what's happened is the hormones
that we've been using in the tissue culture processes
have caused a genetic mutation
that is the result of that variation.
Right?
So I guess I'm just trying to repurpose the question
to say like,
what's the degree of natural variation
that exists in a cannabis plant?
Right?
Yeah.
I think it was just done on this.
And I think there was some flaws in the paper,
but they actually sequenced all these different plates.
Like they took samples from a big mother plant,
like it was like five or six feet tall.
It was actually not in the healthiest condition,
which, you know,
it was like, I was like,
maybe that should have been documented in the study.
But bottom line is they took a whole bunch of genetic samples
of different shoot tips,
bottom of the plant, top of the plant,
middle part of the plant.
And lo and behold,
there's all these genetic mutations that exist
even with just a mother plant.
Forget tissue culture.
Just within a mother plant.
Now, whether that is a factor of them doing a bad analysis
or not, let's forget that and just assume that it happens.
Okay.
Plants, and we've seen this in trees,
mutations happen as plants grow.
Right?
And so if you got like a plant that throws off two shoots,
right?
So this is the main stem here.
You got two shoots coming out here.
When this guy has a mutation,
every cell that develops from that cell
of the mutation is going to carry that mutation.
Yeah. Right.
And so we've literally got two branches on a tree
that are going off in different ways
that have different genotypes.
If that genotype happens in a gene,
if that mutation happens in a gene that's important,
you know, an important trait for cannabis,
that could lead to like a change in the plant.
Yeah. Right.
And so I don't know, you've probably heard me,
I'm like, someone's asking like a sport.
That is a sport.
But a sport is like a shoot of the mutation.
Right?
And so, for example,
I was going to mention like the recent,
maybe people have heard about like Pinot Noir,
is a grape variety that's been around for hundreds of years.
We actually have these new grapes
that are called Pinot Blanc,
which means Pinot White and Pinot Gris.
Pinot Gris is actually kind of a pinky grape,
pinky grape.
It's actually a sport that they found on like,
somebody was walking through a vineyard of Pinot Noir
and noticed that one branch on a plant
had gray grapes, not purple grapes.
Like there was a mutation that happened
in the color gene, right?
And maybe some other genes as well.
But the point is, you boom,
you snip off that sport or that cutting,
that plant is actually different enough
from the registered Pinot Noir variety
that you can actually take Pinot,
that new short, the new sport,
Pinot Gris or Pinot Blanc.
And well, maybe not patented,
but you can register it for a variety.
I don't know.
Patents is a little bit different
because the way they kind of characterize them
is a little bit different.
Okay.
But yeah, it's like, you know,
when you do your plant registration,
it's like, oh yeah, the grapes are purple.
Well, like you go back and it's like,
you got this one and the grapes aren't purple.
It's obviously not the same variety, right?
Or the same cultivar.
So you can be named as a new cultivar.
So yeah, truth is, is like these things happen
they happen in plants,
the degree to which they happen in cannabis.
So I'm sure we know that they know,
we know that it happens.
I think the degree to which we know that it happens
is probably still up in the air.
So I don't know if that answers the question,
but maybe there's a little context for it.
Yeah.
That's interesting.
Can you talk about,
and now we're going to some of your strains
that you've done in the past.
Can you talk about what my favorite strain,
I know we've probably gone over it before,
but since this is a new episode, mental floss.
Like that was one that touched me.
I'm a whore for purples.
And it was made during an era
where purples were pretty obscure at the time.
Like the purple craze had gone.
Not many people were breeding with purples,
but mental floss always had this beautiful purple senescence
during flower.
Yeah.
Can you talk about a little bit?
When it turns at the end, it's a good, beautiful one.
Like when it does one of those things,
I guess it's got a bunch of carotenoids in it.
The carotenoids, like when you look at, for example,
I don't know if you,
you probably don't have maple trees down where you are,
but you might've seen them in the fall.
They go from like green.
And then when the green, the plant, you know,
when the plant's going into fall
and they're about to shed their leaves,
they pull as much resources back out of the leaves
into the trunk.
Yeah.
Right.
So they can save those little building blocks for next year.
And what's left, what happens is,
so the plants go, the leaves go from green
to either red or yellow.
The reason they're red or yellow is because they've got,
molecules in the leaf called carotenoids.
And carotenoids just comes from that yellow,
orangey pigment color.
That's why they're called that,
like kind of like carrots, right?
But those carotenoids kind of hide behind the chlorophyll.
And so with methylphosphorus, again,
when you give it a good flush at the end,
Yeah.
and the plant, you know,
cannibalizes all that chlorophyll,
you end up with these beautiful kind of rainbow,
yellow and purple leaves on the back.
That plant is also like,
it makes some of my favorite hash of any cannabis
that I've ever come across.
Super flavorful, it's strong.
It melts like fucking hell when you,
someone's saying fuck carrots.
Yeah, fuck carrots.
When you eat, when you, it melts like crazy.
And it's also very up, like I would smoke that stuff,
thinking I'm gonna have another puff and go to bed.
And you're like, I got the computer two hours later,
typing away, you know?
Yeah, yeah.
It gets you going and it yields like a motherfucker.
So it's like, it's just a great plant, right?
Where did you source your stuff for the incense haze?
The incense haze, one of the parents of sweet skunk,
the other one is a seed that came from this dude
in New York state that said he got out of a piff.
Yeah.
I don't know if it is or not.
His name is Frank, so I call it Frank's incense haze.
Yeah.
It literally smelled like incense.
When you grew it, like it was,
the reason I paired that one with the sweet skunk
is because the two, like very often, not very often,
not very often you'll come across two plants
that are so close to each other
they could be the same plant.
Yeah.
And so sweet skunk and this plant were like
in almost every sense identical to the part where like,
you'd walk into a room, like when you got,
when you know, if you have plants for like 10, 15 years
in your room, you get to learn like,
a little idiosyncrasy with the leaf
and the way that like, you know,
the way that the leaves come off the main frond
or the serration pattern or whatever it is.
Yeah.
You get to know them like a parent can identify twins.
Right? Yeah.
Like which one of the twin.
And so it's the same thing, like,
and these plants would get confused, right?
The people would confuse them all the time
because they're so close together.
Anyway, yeah, it was, so when those two came together,
so I didn't keep saying I was self in the sweet skunk
because I wanted to understand the inheritance pattern
of some of the rare volatiles that are in it.
And the self, although it's pure,
it's a little bit smaller.
You got a wider range of like,
because it's expressing all the hidden variation
that exists within one genome, right?
Or those that self population.
But when I crossed those two sister plants together,
when I do a cross using a reversal,
I'll always hit the plant to itself
because usually you're trying to get that pure line,
but I also always, while the pollen is flying,
I will just make a bunch of other crosses at the same time.
Yeah.
So it's, you have them.
So it's like, when you're going down a program,
it's like, oh, hey, I lost a trade
or this line doesn't have a trait that I want.
You go back to the line with the trait
and you've already got the hybrid.
It's 50% within the line you're working in, right?
So some guy did.
But anyway, so when you cross those two things together,
the incense haze, which was a simply irresistible,
I mean, they came out much bigger and better
and very consistent to type.
Yeah.
So it kind of was the best of both worlds.
So when people ask me, it's like,
when they're sniffing around that thing,
I always say, hey, get both of them,
get the self for breeding.
So you got the pure stock, it's a little more homozygous
or a greater chance of being homozygous.
But the hybrid outperforms the other one, right?
In terms of like a grower's performance, right?
Oh, sure.
It really depends on what the customer is looking for.
When I have time, I really like to take my time
to do a proper consult with someone.
Because I'll be like, hey, somebody grew this stuff,
the lemon floss, it's great, I wanna grow it.
And it's like, what are you doing it for?
What are you using it for?
Right, because I don't want you to just buy the seeds
that you think you want.
I want you to have the seeds that are gonna be the best
for what you're doing.
Right?
Yeah.
So, yeah.
Is there a strain that you can think of
that you have been looking for for many years
or a strain you'd like to encounter
from the past that you haven't?
I mean, yeah.
Again, we have to just straighten discussion.
I think of it in terms of plants, right?
Like, are there rare phenotypes that I've seen in the past
that I don't, that I'd love to see again?
Sure.
I mean, of course.
It's kind of one of those things that it's like,
if it comes by and passes without even grabbing a copy
and then salving it, like it may be gone to the wind.
Yeah.
Right?
So you gotta recognize that it is.
But you know, you're always looking for those things
in the future.
I had a plant when I was relatively young
and it was called Luskini Sweetie.
There's an Island off of Texas, British Columbia
in the straight there.
Yeah.
It's called Luskini and it's no power.
It's essentially a hippie commune.
And you know, they grow a lot of dope up there.
Yeah.
And they, this one, like it was before I had ever,
I'd never even heard of the Island at that point in time.
I was quite young, living on the other side of the country.
And a friend of mine,
I was going to ask him what we think of Breeders Deep.
Yeah.
I was going to ask him what we think of Breeders Deep.
Yeah.
Your questions are funny, dude.
Anyway, this flower ended up back with me
and it was amazing.
It was like incredibly electric, super strong, really up.
And unfortunately, other than the name Luskini Sweetie,
I never knew anything, you know?
Yeah.
I never knew what it was.
So it's like, yeah, for sure.
I'd love to come across those things.
But it's like the beautiful girl
that you dated in high school.
You might not find another one like it.
So marry her while you can.
Yeah.
Yeah, no kidding.
Well, we need to get your genetics here in the States.
You know, I know there's a lot of people
who really want to grab chimera stuff.
Is there anywhere available in the States right now
that people can buy?
I can't sell them to the States, unfortunately.
Oh, well, there is that.
It's difficult.
Like I said, when I worked down there,
part of, you know, becoming a landed immigrant
is having your fingerprint scanned.
Right, so it's like me sending seeds into the States
ain't really a great idea.
Yeah, it's probably not.
But yeah, maybe someone can work on doing
some chimera genetics out here.
That'd be cool.
Yeah, yeah.
In the States.
We have Breeders Retail that's gonna come up
and get going again, but they're a UK band.
So it's, you know, with them having done Brexit,
it's a bit of a shit show, right?
Not this, it's not as easy to do the business
out of the UK, but it's perfectly legal for us to do that.
So people that want to do that can, you know,
get contacted me and we can hook you up through the UK.
But unfortunately the way the laws are
and with that whole fingerprint
and having worked for the man thing, it's like, yeah.
That always puts a big.
The reality is though.
Yeah, that's where we're at.
Crybaby made a comment on your Limoncello.
He said, I thought the Limoncello was very consistent
and was an excellent breeder.
I know he's done some stuff with it too.
Yeah, that's the sweet stuff.
It is pretty consistent smell wise.
There's a little bit of variation I find still
in like in morphology, you grow enough plants
of the flower morphology.
And so that's just what I meant from that context.
Like the smoking, they're more or less,
I want to say they're more or less the same,
but they're very close.
They're within that type.
Yeah.
But you know, I wouldn't lay down
if I was going to grow an indoor set of table,
I wouldn't lay down seed from those
because there's just, if you're trying to sell the flower,
there's a little, for me,
there's a little bit too much inconsistency.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Was there anything else you want to cover
before we rock it out?
Steve's saying, help some BC locals up with seeds.
All these new weeks, next week suck.
Hey man, there's seeds that are available.
Yeah, seeds are there.
Everybody, listen, everybody's, you know what it's like.
Everybody's known for the Cali stuff, right?
The Cali world owns the world.
You know, Spain owned the world 10 years ago,
BC owned the world 10 years before that.
It'll vary, it'll move around.
Or it'll be there.
The work, right?
They're doing the work down there.
There's a lot of people that are growing seeds.
Yeah.
And listen, that's the only way
that we're going to come up with new, better cannabis.
Keep growing seeds, just fucking keep growing seeds.
As much as it's appealing and you have to grow clones
for your business model, you know, just keep growing seeds.
Because if you don't grow seeds,
we're never going to find anything new.
And we're always going to be stuck with the same shit
that we had five years ago.
It's how it goes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And listen, sometimes the stuff from my, you know,
it's like, I see, I call it cannabis fashion, right?
It's like, I like to hold on to old cuts
because it's like, they go out of favor,
but you bring them back like five, 10 years later
and people are like, I love that shit.
You know, it's like, dude, it's the mini skirt
or the bell bottoms.
Like they keep it back, right?
So.
I never thought I'd see Skunk One make a comeback.
And it did, you know, a few years ago.
Like what the fuck?
For the wild man.
I'm laughing at the Skunk One.
Somebody actually asked me to sit in
and help use genetics to help referees and stuff.
Cause it's like, you got like five guys in California
that are like, I've got the original Skunk One.
I was like, oh, you do, do you?
Yeah.
Have you ever heard of Sam?
You ever heard of Dave?
They're like, no.
You know, okay, well.
And you don't have the original.
Yeah.
Right?
It's like, it's funny.
Again, it's that whole ego thing
that like people want to get together and, you know,
and be like, hey, I got the original.
I'm the man.
It's like, you know.
Fucking wonderful.
Skunk's an interesting plant,
but it's one of those things that like, you know,
it was one of the first, right?
The first retro breeding lines.
And Dave started selling in Holland
and then every seed company was like,
well, the Skunk's selling, we got to sell the Skunk.
Yes.
So it's like, then Dutch Passion's got it
and Sensi's got a copy of it.
And then everybody's got a copy of it.
Every fucking seed bank in the world, more or less,
has a copy of it.
Are they all original?
How much are they any, like, you know,
it'd be really interesting to have like an acre
and have all of them and grow them all side by side
and just see.
And see what they're like.
They're probably, like, not even, you know,
they're probably not even alike.
Yeah, I'm sure they're not.
And this dude that bought the seeds back in like, you know,
96 or whatever, when he got them,
he probably didn't get them from the original guy, right?
Yeah, probably not.
Is your stuff original?
Yeah.
It's just, it's a funny, it's a funny thing.
I was actually quite amused to see
one of the most spread around seed varieties
that has existed in the last 50 years
have a bunch of new people pop up and be like,
yo, I've got the original.
Yeah, and then throw down big dollars
even though it's never been gone.
You know?
Yeah, it's always been available.
And what, like, what is the original?
Like, right?
Like the original was a seed, it was a named population.
It wasn't like, you know, it's not like today,
it's like OG Kush or cookies or fucking runs or whatever.
Like these start as cuttings, right?
And it always makes me laugh.
It's like, you know, for example, Blue Dream.
When Blue Dream came around, it was one cut, right?
More or less, like there ended up being a couple
that were very similar, but there was one cut.
And then people would come on and be like,
I got this Blue Dream, Santa Cruz Blue Dream thing.
And then they'll like spank White Widow on it
or some OG or whatever, some random poll.
And then they sell the seeds as Blue Dream.
And now people grow those seeds in a different market
where they don't know what the original Blue Dream is.
They pick a mom, they say it's Blue Dream.
And now you've got two plants
that are being passed around the world
as if they're both the original.
And one of them is not even the same chemical profile
as the Blue Dream, right?
It's not even close, most likely, yeah.
So Crybaby's asking how much of the ancestral skunk
did we get to see a fair amount?
Like we grew a chunk.
It's interesting.
I mean, there's some stuff in there.
The ancestral people, I don't know
if people know about the ancestral skunk.
Yeah, talk about it.
Those were seeds that when Dave was moving over to Holland
in like early 80s, he brought obviously
a bunch of stuff over.
He brought like a suitcase of seeds over
and did various things with them
and worked with them in various things.
He met a hemp researcher that knew,
he met a hemp researcher that was essentially like,
he was in a European country.
I'm not gonna say which one,
but he was the, he grew,
like he was known as the hemp guy, right?
Like red hemp, their country sold hemp seed
around the world.
And when the police would,
like they'd come across a cannabis bust,
they'd go and get him and bring him to the site
and be like, is this drug cannabis or not?
Is this hemp?
Yeah. Right?
Yeah, I know Black Bar.
And sorry, someone's asking that question.
And anyway, Sam arranged for this guy to grow
on his research field, a hectare of skunk.
Yeah.
And open populated.
So essentially like, Sam brought those seeds over
and they all went in the greenhouse
and so they did various things with them.
He had a big bunch of the skunk left
enough to plant like a hectare.
And so they took them to this European country
and planted in hectare in isolation.
And he and Rob went through the field
and robed all the males and the off types
and the females that were not skunk like.
Yeah.
But the rest of it just got fucking open pollinated.
That is what the ancestral skunk is.
Okay.
Okay, so it's like,
it's the closest thing a population could be
to what was produced in California.
Yes.
All the other families that came out of that population
were like, you know, they were family lines.
Somebody went in and found two plants
and they crossed them together.
Yeah.
So what came out of that from those one-to-one cross
is not the same as what was preserved
in the overall open population.
Right, so that's what the skunk was.
And I said, Sam, I was like,
there's all these people are, you know,
crying and whatever about having access to the skunk.
What's up, Plastagram?
Let's give them access to this.
So we did, right?
And they have, they got a low germination rate.
I mean, they germinate like that like 25%
or maybe even a little bit less now.
I haven't tested them recently.
Well, they're pretty old, right?
Yeah, I mean, they must've been reproduced like 30,
25, 30 years ago.
Yeah.
It's wild that any pop.
A couple of years ago,
Sam was looking at selling his collection
and I actually helped him recatalog the entire thing.
And so we got to go, you know, we went through everything
and we did a whole bunch of germination tests
and we pulled stuff out that was like 25 year old seed
that had been stored at like, you know,
four degrees Celsius for 20 plus years, 25 years.
And some of it germinated at like 80, 90%.
Ooh, those seeds, if they're stored properly
and consistently, they can last a long time.
And it's like, I got a ton of those blueberry seeds
still left from the DJ Projects
and people like, yeah, but they're old seeds.
Like, dude, I can pull fucking the grapefruit sweet skunk
out and pop 10 of them and all 10 of them germinate.
Right?
It doesn't matter how old the fucking seed is
if it germinates, right?
Yeah, exactly.
That's my view.
Obviously some people think differently, but.
Was there any skunk too in that population
of stuff that he had saved?
Skunk too wasn't from Sam.
Oh, was it?
No, he never was.
Where was that from?
I don't know.
Somebody else came along and made it up.
I don't think he ever produced one called skunk too.
I remember there was some kind of quote somewhere
about him talking about how skunk too
was the skunkier version.
He didn't work the skunkier version.
That's the thing.
He was like, I don't like it.
I'm watching it work that line.
Yeah, yeah.
Right?
So, yeah.
I wonder where I read that.
I'll have to go back and look.
There's a lot of stuff that gets attributed to Sam.
I mean, it's like, again, the whole thing about him
in the BDA, like all this shit is attributed to him.
It's just not even true.
There's little specks of like roots of truth
that somebody took and blew up into this big weird story
and, you know, misinterpreted.
It's because he's Mr. Mystery, I think, you know,
like he's an enigma.
You're not wrong.
That doesn't help.
But again, like I think after,
like I think if you were treated the way
that he's been treated in the cannabis community,
look, I mean, it's like the same thing that happened
with me and my branding for that work
that ended up being patented.
It's like, everybody fucking turns on you.
Yeah.
Right?
And, you know, people, like I said, everywhere he went,
it was like, you know, the whole Dutch scene,
the reason that people started calling him BDA
was that he was able to come into a country
that wasn't his.
He's not fucking Dutch.
He went to Holland as an American expat
and was able to get,
no, I didn't say rooting hormone.
I said hormones for plant tissue culture.
So rooting hormones, not the same.
Some of the shit that they use for plant tissue culture
can cause mutations, but that's, yeah.
But anyway, Sam was able to go into Holland,
set up a business, get a license to grow cannabis
from the government.
Nobody else could do it.
Yeah.
And so of course all the Dutch dudes were fucking choked.
Right?
They were like, how is this not, this isn't fair.
This guy's got all this shit, right?
Absolutely.
He must have some context that we don't have.
Well, what the fuck?
Like the DEA is an American organization.
Why the hell would the DEA go to the government
of a different country and say,
hey, you gotta let this American grow weed in your country.
That doesn't make any fucking sense.
Like that's a stupid fucking assumption, right?
That's the story that some Dutch reporter guy came up with
and he used to have a cannabis radio show
and he started them all over the airwaves
and now it's fucking true for half the world.
Right?
Wow, is that where it came from?
Is that where all this started?
Well, it started as a rumor,
but that's when it got popularized.
Yeah.
I remember meeting Scott at one point in time,
Shanti Baba, and he was like, oh yeah,
Dave Watson, blah, blah, blah.
And I was like, dude, you've been fucking fed up.
You've been-
That's the fucking lies by fucking Neville
and all these other guys, right?
That were jealous and haters, right?
Neville told me directly that he knew Sam's DEA handler.
Everybody knew his handler.
You do not fucking know what you're talking about.
You just spent nonsense and you came in late.
Like I'm just gonna ignore your fucking questions.
So let's move on.
Yeah, like whatever, dude.
Like-
Yeah, he just told it as fact.
It's like people wanna fucking question you
without even knowing like an iota of the fucking truth.
Yeah, bro, but didn't you know it was going to be patented?
I actually didn't.
I was fucking making medicine for patients, dumbass.
Okay, that's what I was doing.
That's what my intentions were.
The fucking companies I was working with
at the time that I was employed by
that were allowing me to fucking like
have my dream cannabis job
and build a fucking multimillion dollar laboratory plan.
Right?
Like, yeah, it's a job,
but it's also a job that I wanted to do.
One of the consequences is that these guys came out
and patented a bunch of,
a class of plants that didn't exist before I made them.
Yeah.
So it's like, how the hell people like you can complain
is ridiculous.
Like you obviously have no idea what you're talking about
and are spouting an opinion of like
from a place of complete ignorance.
So like, yeah, I do have to laugh.
And the reason I'm emotional about it
and I'm clearly irritated
is because I fucking got death threats from people like you.
Yeah, I know.
So give me a break.
I went after you.
I went after you, man.
Ben went after me.
I did.
Yeah.
Yeah, Ben did.
I didn't have the full picture and no one did.
And that's the problem, you know?
No.
No one had the full picture.
We just went off of, oh my God, patent.
This guy's fucking with the man.
And that was it.
Listen, our community was bred to believe that, right?
Yeah, yeah.
It's very conspiratorial.
A lot of them are bad.
Like dude, I knew research scientists
that worked at GW Pharmaceuticals,
like doing Petri dish work and experimental design.
And like these guys would have the same experiences
that you and I would have taken care of Mary's nephew
with epilepsy down the street, right?
They would have personal relationships
with like these kids that couldn't get access to cannabis
and they would come in.
And because of GW Pharmaceuticals
that was doing the work with cannabis,
they were able to get access to the medicines
they needed to change their life, right?
So like big pharma or not,
I can't fucking have, I don't have a problem with that.
Like if you're helping people in like a context,
again, they're operating in a context of prohibition
where like these medicines can't get to the people.
I made a post today about Marinol, right?
Yeah, yeah.
Somebody was chirping me about Marinol,
like, oh no, it's made by in a laboratory.
A molecule is a molecule is a molecule.
Like if you're fucking starving for water,
you don't care whether that water was made
from like burning fossil fuels
or mixing hydrogen and oxygen in a laboratory
or purifying it out of fucking shit sewer water.
Like once it comes out at the end
and it's pure fucking water, it's water, right?
So it's the same with THC and it's the same with CBD, right?
Like if those medicines can go to someone
that can benefit from those medicines
that they couldn't access otherwise,
why the hell do you have a problem with it, right?
Like I don't get it, right?
And I know that it comes from a place
where it's like you feel like,
oh, the government's not letting you do your art
and grow the crop that you wanna grow.
You know what the result is dude, go change the laws.
And like, we've been fighting for that hard
for fucking 30, 40 plus years, right?
But I've been involved for 30 years, right?
And I founded a political party in Canada.
I was a founding member
of the federal marijuana party in Canada, right?
I didn't know that, that's pretty cool.
To effectuate change.
So it's like, I get that you're pissed off
and you're scared of big pharma,
but you have to fucking direct that anger
in a channel that's gonna change things,
not just sit there and bitch about big business
because it's boring, right?
It's like, it's boring.
And big business is gonna happen
whether we like it or not.
We're seeing that in the cannabis world regardless.
It's going to happen, it happens.
I want to change cannabis in the few years
that I have left on this fucking floating rock.
Okay, so if you think I'm not gonna take a job
where someone pays me a decent salary
and gives me like a multimillion dollar budget
to fucking grow and make glass
that the world has never seen before,
yeah, I'm gonna do it, okay?
You don't like it, too fucking bad.
Yeah.
I like seeing the passionate side.
Yeah, I mean, I get offended by it, right?
Well, yeah, of course.
You have people that don't know
what the hell they're talking about.
And it's like, they're spouting that off
as if their ignorant perspective is like,
like one, valuable, but like two, supremely valuable.
Like they think that they're Russians.
Like, dude, go look up the Dunning-Kruger effect, okay?
Yeah.
You know a little bit,
you know a little bit and think that you know everything.
Right?
Try learning a lot and then think that, you know,
anyway, whatever.
There's too much of that in the cannabis industry.
And you know, I'm all up for raising everybody up.
I would love to.
And that's why we do these things.
We share perspective and we teach people
because we want you all to be better
so that you all can go and raise the fucking game.
And when we all raise the game,
the cannabis is better, the products are better,
the products are safer.
And we're all dabbing out on the dankest fucking shit.
Right?
Like that's what we're trying.
Exactly.
That's why I find it an honor
when anybody, anybody uses my stuff
because it means that it was good enough in their eyes
to take forward and make better.
And the resulting factor of that is
if they make something better than I made,
I don't let that intimidate me.
I want to go work with that.
Like that's exciting.
They truly are making it better.
But the thing I don't like is when people like,
they actually hack apart your work
and then they tell everybody it's better.
And then they sell it as whatever your strain is.
And then that's that.
I had a dude today contact me.
He's like, hey man, I want like,
I'm interested in this kind of high
and I'm looking at your Highland Mexican Blueberry.
And I'm like, I want to buy a hundred seeds.
And it's like, oh, you want to buy a hundred seeds?
I'm not excited because he's buying a hundred seeds
and it's like, you know.
Yeah, because he wants to pop a bunch.
I want him, it's like, dude,
if you're going to put in a hundred grow effort
or a hundred seed effort into improving the line,
let me help you.
Right?
And it's like, I would buy this line and I would, you know,
and I'm going to throw in this line extra
so that you've got it.
So that as you're inbreeding this one,
you should put a little bit of this back into it.
So that, you know, you don't,
you don't suffer inbreeding depression
and they've got the same traits
and it's got some nice flavor stuff.
So, you know, in the end,
you'll be able to build better.
I love that.
I'm stoked on that, right?
Yes, absolutely.
I don't think buying a five pack
and then knocking off open pollination of five seeds
to me is an insult because it's like, you're not,
I went to a lot of work to create that population
and now you've essentially put it through bottle neck
and you're selling it the same thing.
That's fucked up, right?
Like, so please do take my shit, make better.
Like you make better, I will support you.
If you take my shit and you fucking knock it into crap,
then I'm not going to be happy.
Yeah.
Right?
Like that's how I feel about it.
It's like, I look at them like my kids,
you know what I mean?
Yeah, of course.
You know, you want your babies to go off to good homes.
Right?
Yeah.
And have happy marriages and all that kind of shit.
So.
Yeah, I totally agree on that.
Can you tell us a little bit about the Highland Mexican too?
Since we just brought that up.
These were old seeds that came to me
through rabbit legends, actually.
Someone shipped them to him.
And it was some old dude that was like,
yeah, I'm old.
I've been growing for years and years.
I collected these things in the sixties and seventies.
And I don't know, you know, I don't know what's going to,
I know I don't have the ability to do something with them.
Can you please give them something that did?
And so we got from it, I grew a whole bunch
and found a really interesting plant.
Yeah.
And I put, I had one, I was like,
I'm going to take this one plant
and put it in the flowering room.
And it was, you know, it was like a real equatorial, right?
So you put it in and it gets to like a foot tall.
And you're like, ooh, this thing is going to really stretch.
So you cut it down and make four shoots.
And this thing was like twice as tall
and wide as any other plant in the room.
And it must've produced like, I don't know,
it was in the, we're in like the many thousands of these.
Like it was like, you know, probably eight, 10,000 shoots.
Because the whole thing, just like the whole,
it was these long, you know, the old kind of like
long spear flowers that you'd see in the seventies.
Not too thick, but like really long running.
It was like that, just chock full of seeds.
And it had a nice high effect.
It was like, we weren't analyzing turps back then,
but I, in memory, I would say that it's probably
like a limening turpin, or limening pining plant,
which is kind of rare in today's turpin profile world.
I think that's what was really associated
with a lot of the old hazes.
It was just a nice bud, but it was nice, classic, non,
like it was not popular bud.
So when I released those DJ joint projects,
I put some of those out there.
And I don't think we sold a pack for like 18 months.
I don't think anybody bought them,
because they were like, oh, you know,
they already wanted the grapefruit, blueberry,
and the menthol floss, and all the plants
that were like getting yield.
And then finally somebody decided to grow a couple of those
like in an equatorial climate,
and ordered some of those and grew them.
And they were just, I mean, they're,
they have the ugliest phenotype, flower phenotype.
Oh, I'm sure, yeah.
Like long spindly, weird, like, you know,
like buds that have like, they look like,
they've got like five or six foxtails coming out of them,
just two calories stacked, right?
And they'd look, it would look like a finger.
It wouldn't look like a hand with a bunch of fingers.
I remember seeing them.
Yeah.
You can take them like this, rip off the calyx,
and essentially fold a paper around it, right?
Yeah, right.
But there, it was a great, nice effect
in doing those crosses,
and actually in growing DJ stuff.
I don't, I'm not, I don't have proof
that this is the way it is,
but it's definitely my very strong feeling
is that all those introspective and like,
I don't wanna say, but like cerebral kind of highs
that you get from THC,
and this is largely from running all DJ stuff
through that really expensive lab that we built,
like in population.
Most of it's in the 8 to 12% range.
Yeah.
Not fucking 25% bud.
Yeah, exactly.
Low cannabinoid production,
or what we would call today low cannabinoid production plant.
Yeah.
But when you whack up 30%,
to like 28, 25, 28, 30% THC,
you start to really get that stone,
kind of lethargic, kind of dull effect,
where it's like all the sheen has been taken off
of like a high, and you just kind of feel it in your head,
and you're just like kind of whacked in stone.
That's THC, right?
And if you take a Marinol pill,
you actually feel the same way.
I bet.
Right, it kind of feels like somebody thudded you
in the head with something, you know, like whack.
Yeah.
And you don't get that from those 12%ers,
or those 10%ers.
No.
You kind of get a nice floaty buzz,
but it's like, it's enough that you're affected,
but you're just kind of in a different head space.
And-
Yeah, the clear headed high.
Well, and for, you know,
like the folks in Rob's generation, Dave's generation,
that's, I'm not saying Rob and Dave in particular,
but like people of that age,
that's what cannabis was when they were growing up
and what they had access to, right?
That was like, you didn't come across like a cookie
back in the 70s, it didn't exist.
No, no, of course not.
So you'd be buzzed, right?
But it's a different head space.
And so that whole generation, not that whole generation,
the majority of that generation
fell in love with that experience.
And then Indica and 20 plus percent cannabis came along,
it was too much for them
because it didn't do that same thing that they wanted.
Yeah.
And I, you know, and someone was talking
about when the basket's full stuff with THCA,
you're kind of right, but it's like, you know,
DJ, for example, like he was with LSD, right?
And so maybe the basket's not full with,
you don't want to fill the basket with THC
because when you're putting LSD and THC in it together
in moderate amounts, like it's a more pleasant effect,
at least for him, for him.
Yeah.
This is all about perception.
So it's just, you know, it's an interesting thing
because essentially what's happened now
is that like the market with a 10% or a 12% flower,
good fucking luck.
Yeah.
The market, consumers, retailers, distributors
are all gonna laugh at you.
Yeah, totally.
Arguably, there's a whole class of people out there
that would like that.
Oh, for sure.
For sure.
It's kind of like saying, hey,
we're gonna have liquor stores,
we're only gonna sell things that are like 25%
and above percent alcohol.
I'll get rid of all beer, all wine, all, you know,
like coolers and all that kind of stuff.
That's a huge amount of like alcohol consumers
or the people that like those products
that they don't want to sit down with a bottle of whiskey
and like do shots or chugs or get high.
Exactly.
Right?
So in a way we're doing the market of the service
and we're doing consumers of the service.
What's up, Vessel?
Yeah, so I don't know.
Like I don't, you know, 20 people,
like 10%, 12% bud, this guy likes 12% bud, what a pussy.
You know?
Yeah.
Hey man, like not everybody's like you.
Like some people want to drink light beer, right?
Yeah, I don't like getting baked stone at all.
I just don't.
I like to be able to, if I have to react to something,
I want to be able to react as fast as possible.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Yeah, well, when people are saying it's like,
you know, not everybody wants that.
Some people don't want older weed, older people usually.
And it's true.
But maybe like, you know, we could teach people
how to use cannabis in a way that some people
might not want.
Like even if you're a teenager, right?
Yeah.
And dude, I've seen it with friends.
Like I've seen them friends that like they start smoking
a little bit of weed and then they're like, yeah, it's fun.
And then they get into it and they start smoking more
and they're fucking way too high.
Right?
And it impacts their life in a negative way.
Yeah.
Right?
So, and so I want more people using cannabis.
If they got to smoke something that's like, you know,
half CBD and half THC or even just most of the CBD
with a little bit of THC in it, like, you know, 5% THC.
I don't care.
Like I think that we should make cannabis for all people.
I do too.
When we've got the market that is this way,
it's not a good thing for the,
for it's not a good thing for consumers.
You know, there are scientific studies that show
like mass consumption of THC for at least some people
is not a good thing.
Yeah.
And so what do we say?
Oh, sorry, you guys, you don't get to just,
you're not allowed to benefit from this plant.
Yeah.
Right.
It's like, well, hey, how about I can make you something
that does benefit?
I was like, that variety that I developed out of Napro
for the beta-cariocene and the CBDV, right?
I was like, that plant had no recreational potential at all.
Like it was no fun for anybody, right?
But it was gonna make a difference
in some three-year-old's life, right?
And his mom is not gonna be able to like give him this shit
and he's not gonna have like 10 seasons a day.
That felt really fucking good, dude, right?
Being able to make that plant.
It felt really, really, really good.
Like I can't tell you the way it felt.
I can imagine.
I was more proud of that plant in a way
than any high THC plant that I've ever made
that like has like a thousand more people using it
or like 10,000 people smoking it, right?
So yeah, I'm all about making all types of candidates
for all types of people.
And just because it's the one
that like the majority of people doesn't like,
that doesn't mean that it's not an amazing thing, right?
So we gotta make those plants, right?
Which is what somebody was saying about like,
oh, I love to work for this company, big bad company.
Man, I'm not trying to help fucking rich people
get richer, right?
I'm gonna fucking make medicines for patients
or provide plants for patients to change people's lives.
Yeah, you either get it or you don't, right?
But that's the way I look at it.
And everybody's gonna, you know,
you're gonna, people are gonna look at what I'm saying
from another perspective and say maybe it's bullshit.
So whatever, all I can tell you is my truth.
Yeah.
Well, I just wanna thank you because, you know,
you guys like you, Red, DJ, are all major,
major factors in the path of my career as a seed maker
and the few breedings I've done, you know?
So thank you guys for establishing that path,
you know, before me to try to push the boundaries
with blueberry and I still love your guys' stuff.
It still holds its own to today,
even with all this stuff around.
It's funny, it's funny, it's popular in the market,
but I mean, I grew some of that shit out recently
and so every bit is good as a lot of the other stuff.
I could give a fuck about the market.
I mean, especially right now, I mean,
the seed markets crashed, cannabis markets crashed.
Like right now, the people that are gonna stick through it
are the people that were always gonna stick through it,
whether they were making money or not.
So I'm looking forward to that,
at least shaking out some of the fucking shit.
And that's about all the good that's gonna come from it.
But I'm excited.
Well, I gotta leave you with something that Dave said,
you know, Dave Watson, Sam says,
it's like we all stand on our shoulders in diets, right?
All of us, everybody that works with cannabis,
we all got those seeds from somewhere,
except for the previous year we invented cannabis.
So that's the difference.
Yeah.
We gotta respect the people that we got things from
and you know, all of us in our germplasm
that we have in our hands, it all came from somewhere, right?
And sure, maybe we refined it a little bit,
maybe we found some better plants
and we propagated and changed around,
but all of us are beholden to the people that came before us.
Absolutely, absolutely.
Well, I wanna thank you for stopping by.
Thank you for illuminating us on the testing stuff.
I learned a lot myself.
Like that is something I've been very ignorant in
is when it comes to testing and lab testing and stuff.
So I really appreciate your time and thank you.
And I can't wait to have you back on.
My pleasure, thanks for having me in.
And listen, if there's more questions
that we didn't answer about lab testing,
hit up Matt or hit up myself and we'll address it on IG
or we'll do it again or-
Yeah, we'll do it again.
We'll clutch it up, so.
Is there anything you wanna say before we go?
As far as where to get your seeds for people in Canada,
anything like that?
Breeders Retail, unfortunately even Canada's a shit show
for seeds because of the legalization.
So Breeders Retail, if you want our seeds,
reach out to me and I'll hook you up
with the Breeders Retail boys
and we'll get you taken care of.
And yeah, keep growing seeds, support people like Matt,
support the real ones in the industry.
We gotta eat too, right?
Yeah.
And it's not like I'm choosing new leather
for the Lamborghini.
You know what I mean?
Like really like the seed industry is not what it was.
Everybody in the seed business is hurting in a way
that I don't think people really understand.
So definitely support those dudes that you can.
Someone's asking on Cunningfolk Company, I sold them seeds.
They bought seeds for me, so they're good folks.
Good deal.
And the stock is tall.
And let's throw a shout out to Red
because that guy's fucking amazing.
I love that dude.
Listen, Red is one of the realest fucking people
I've ever met in my life.
He is.
He's been around for 15 years
and he is one of the most high integrity individuals
that I've ever met in my life.
And he is absolutely a real one.
So yeah, he's got a new project
out of Victoria, British Columbia on the island
and they gotta grow there.
And so I think they're gonna be,
hopefully they'll be doing some of your stuff.
Yeah, yeah.
And yeah, we got some good things lined up for them.
So listen, anybody in the industry
that's one of the good guys, support them.
And I think, I'm sure there's some people
driving Lamborghinis, but the truth is
that the vast majority of us aren't.
And it's like, we're just trying to get by
like everybody else.
So definitely please grow seeds
and support the people in the industry
that you like their content
and that you respect their ethic.
So, and I gotta tell you one thing live.
It's like, Matt mentioned that we had a little bit
of a falling out or a rough patch over the patent thing.
I respect Matt.
Like, he came to me, I explained to him
my position on the whole thing.
And he recognized that he didn't have the story right.
And he's been like more than forthcoming about that.
And to me, like, that's all you can do.
Like, look, we're humans.
We're gonna make mistakes.
Everybody's gonna make mistakes.
Recognizing the stakes and coming and saying,
hey, I did the wrong thing.
To me, that means everything.
And he's a bro for life because of it, right?
So.
Yeah, same here, man.
Yeah.
Well, I love having you, man.
Yeah, thanks for having me.
Absolute pleasure.
I'll talk to you soon.
And thank you for stopping by.
Yeah, much love to your viewers.
You guys all have a good evening.
Peace.
All right, cheers guys.
