Ready, go!
🎵
Welcome to Breeder's Syndicate.
🎵
Hey, what's up?
Hey!
Yeah, so, old, old fuckin' Instagram blocked me.
Cause someone's been reporting me.
Wonder who.
I mean, uh, you're popular.
Yeah, it could be any one of my loyal, adoring fans.
So.
You know, so we can, uh...
Yeah, I mean, it's hard to, uh...
Um...
It's definitely got the potential for abuse.
Yeah, I mean, if you want to tell history, you're gonna be pissing people off.
No matter what you do, no matter what you're talking about, no matter which subject it is.
Cause there's always someone making money off the subject, you know?
Oh, yeah.
There's people that are make, there's people that like, uh, what is it, the more mystery, less history?
Yes, yes.
That's like relationship advice, but I guess it comes into play with cannabis, you know?
It does, it does.
I was thinking, like, even in UFOs, dude, people go fuckin' nuts on each other when they don't necessarily believe the same exact, you know, thing.
And they report each other, and they get real nasty, and like, dox each other, and swat each other.
Yeah, I mean, everybody likes science until it challenges their assumptions.
Yeah, there you go.
I mean, and it, you know, and it's rare that science is going to back you up on everything that you believe.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
Oh, wow, we do have 80 people in here, so that's a plus.
It is.
Despite this account being much smaller.
It's, it's, looks like it's popping up, so, and it's only been a couple of minutes, so hopefully more people pop on and whatnot.
And I guess if we're interesting enough, we'll have a podcast on it or something too, maybe, so we'll see.
Yeah, maybe, we'll see how it goes.
We'll see how it goes.
All right, is there anything you wanted to touch on early on?
Well, I mean, we kind of like, we were kind of going to have a grab bag of things to chat about today.
We were going to talk a little bit, since it kind of ties into what you and CSI have going on, we were going to kind of touch on a little bit of Hawaiian history and what Hawaiian means in general, in terms of cannabis, you know.
And, you know, and then we were going to, then there was something that kind of irritated both of us about terpenes and some other stuff that we were going to bullshit about.
That's right.
I printed this out too.
So, so we can, you know, so yeah, you know, so not too bad.
So maybe what we can do, we've got 91 people in climbing, so that's pretty positive.
Yeah.
So maybe what we can do is we'll keep off the semi-controversial stuff for a little bit and we'll start on, we'll start on the, on Hawaiian, right?
Hawaiian.
What does it mean to be Hawaiian?
So, so Hawaiian is interesting.
Hawaii is a trippy place because I believe it's the farthest islands from a continent in the world.
Yeah.
Right?
Of one of the seven continents, it's the farthest, it's the farthest thing.
And so there are no, there's not much on Hawaii that's native of any kind, anything.
Most things are non-native to Hawaii because it's essentially a volcanic island chain in the middle of nowhere.
Right.
Yeah.
But one of the interesting things about Hawaii, Hawaii is that Hawaii, I believe, is the only American state that's actually in the tropics.
Oh yeah.
That would make sense.
So like, even, even if you go down to like, say, um, Florida, like the very Southern tip of Florida or the Florida Keys, for instance, those are still considered the subtropics.
Yes.
Not actual tropics.
Yeah.
Right.
What about, what about Guam?
You know, Guam isn't a state.
That's, that's true.
Yeah.
It's a territory.
Territory.
I will admit that I'm not familiar with all of America's territories and where they may or may not be located.
Yeah.
I only know that Guam people are called Chamorran.
That's, I learned that because I had a friend that was from Guam and I said he was Guamanian and he got real pissed.
But, but I'll say this, like from the perspective that we're speaking of, if you're doing something in the United States and the 50 United States, you don't go through customs the same way as if you're outside of it.
Yeah.
So, you know, we've got this, you know, I don't have it, but they're doing some, you know, Hawaiian lights and I have a pretty old strain from Hawaii.
And so we thought we'd chat about what that meant.
So there is no, we, unlike most of what we talk about where Mexican or Colombian or Panamanian or tie or African or any of this shit, there really is no record of marijuana in Hawaii.
Much before, you know, the 60s or something.
Yeah.
You know, so there's not like there wasn't really any indigenous cultures cultivating it there.
Yeah.
Right.
And so there's an aspect where, you know, it's rumored and they certainly were involved that the Brotherhood of Eternal Love.
Yeah.
That was one of the locations that they used to grow cannabis before helicopters flew.
Yeah.
And so as a result of that, a lot of the common strains back then, Mexican, Colombian, that kind of thing could be grown successfully out there.
Yeah.
And so today in Hawaii, most people, if they want to grow in Hawaii, they veg indoors or in greenhouses with artificial lighting because it's basically so close to 1212 there all the time that anything that we normally grow in our stuff, unless it's some kind of pure equatorial sativa, would flower immediately upon going outside.
Oh, wow.
I didn't know that.
Yeah.
I mean, it's, you know, I mean, that's part of the reason why equatorials take so long.
Yeah.
Is they don't have any like wintertime pressure where they have to create seed before they die.
Yeah.
It's always kind of warm and nice.
And there's not, you know, you take Afghanistan or Hindu Kush or something like that, where there's a pretty good amount of difference between daytime and nighttime versus summer and winter.
And in the equatorial regions, there's not a big difference.
Yeah.
It might be a couple of hours.
Yeah.
Right.
And so you might be 1212 or you might be 13 and 11 or you might be 11 and 13, but you don't really very much beyond that little aspect.
Yeah.
So Hawaiian Hawaiian, it basically is a catch all term for anything in Hawaii.
Yeah.
Right.
Yeah.
And what apparently what used to be grown out there was some combination of Colombians, Mexicans, ties, and and then some of that stuff was mixed with Afghans.
Yeah.
Or structure and weight and this and that, you know, and and all that type of stuff.
So, you know, when when, for instance, like they were talking about, you know, the the stuff that Seattle, Greg and those guys were getting in the 70s or 80s that they were mixing with their Afghans, they were getting Hawaiian.
Right.
Yeah.
But, you know, that was probably some combination of Colombian, Thai, Mexican, blended together and or maybe mixed with Afghan.
Yeah.
Is kind of is kind of that, you know, and so Hawaii used to be a pretty bomb place to grow cannabis.
And then the problem became is when the helicopter started flying in the early 80s and stuff, there's not very much landmass in Hawaii.
Yeah.
So it's not it's not like Northern California or other areas where they just have this vast area to search through.
Yeah.
There's, you know, volcanic areas that it's really easy to see if there's a weed growing.
There's jungle areas that are unsuitable.
There's only so many, you know, human area, human habitation areas.
And so the area they have to cover is pretty small.
Yeah.
It wouldn't be too hard to just fly up a little bit and see.
So there was a big boom in the 60s and 70s of people growing out there.
And then as soon as the helicopter started flying, a lot of people got a lot, you know, Hawaii kind of ceased being an export on any major level.
I'm not saying that it wasn't some of it still didn't exist, but a lot of it moved into greenhouses and moved on to the edge of jungles.
It became really difficult to get off any kind of large scale stuff.
Yeah.
Because the islands are so small.
So.
When Matt did his interview with Greg, I think was the very first Breeder Syndicate interview.
You know, he talked about he thought that the Hawaiian that they were using in L5 was some blend of Mexican and Colombian.
Yeah.
Was his was his.
That was his take on it.
Yeah.
That was his take.
Colombian, which would have been pretty common because that would have been two of the main imports, seeded weed imports that were coming into America at the time.
Yeah.
Right.
And, you know, and so I have a small tie to to Hawaiian.
Not that I live there or anything like that, because I never did.
But one of the strains that I still have is we call it the Maui.
And of all places, I met a guy from Maui in in ninety four in Amsterdam who had come out there to trade seeds with some of the breeders out there.
And we shared a joint and stuff like that.
And I was with some friends and he gave us a small handful of seeds and one of them became the Maui.
So they have truck stops in Hawaii is what you're saying.
So I'm in Amsterdam.
I mean, so they I mean, they have a whole district.
Right. District. You know, they don't even have they don't even call it.
They just they just it's very much more open there.
So and so being 19 or whatever the fuck I was, I asked zero intelligent questions of this man.
I thought he was a super old timer, which he was probably about my age.
He was probably in his 40s. But to a 19 year old.
Yeah. He seemed a grizzled veteran.
Yeah, I'm sure. You know, and that trip I spent thousands of dollars on seeds.
And the only thing that I ended up keeping was this female from a handful of seeds that he gave me when we shared a joint.
Wow. It's pretty much stuff.
You have all the Dutch that that particular trip, which was was one.
It was my it was actually my first trip to Amsterdam.
Believe it or not, in 94, that particular trip, I didn't find anything that was a keeper amongst the stuff that I bought initially.
Do you remember what you bought?
I bought all kinds of shit. Yeah, I bought an elf.
I went to Sensi in 94 and I bought an L5 Hayes.
I bought an L5 skunk one.
I bought Super Skunk.
Yeah. From them.
You know, I bought some, you know, I, I, I think I bought some bubble gum that year.
Yeah, I bought I bought a random I bought some stuff from maybe Dutch Passion.
Anyway, I was stupid.
And instead of buying, well, I was 19, right?
So instead of buying like three or four things and buying like, you know, 50 seeds of each thing.
Yeah, I bought like 15 or 18 things and like one or two packs of each.
Right. So then you like crack a pack and it's 10 seeds and you get four females and you don't like any of them.
Yeah. And I was that wasn't at the era.
I was so young then that wasn't at the era where we were like keeping males or breeding or anything like that.
Right. So the other thing, too, is I got that Maui and we tossed all the males because they were fucking useless.
Right. What are we going to do with those?
You know, but but so Hawaiian Hawaiian is definitely, you know, in that it's kind of it's in the lexicon.
Right. And, you know, someone just said, oh, Maui, Maui, Maui, Maui was is kind of like Matt Natanuska Thunderfuck or this or that or whatever.
It's a catch all term. It was it was originally made by a guy named Fast Eddie from the Brotherhood of Eternal Love.
So there really was a Maui Waui at one time.
Unlike Mattanuska Thunderfuck, we can't trace it to one person, but that one we can.
But what has become Maui Waui, I think most of what we see is Maui Waui are mostly Afghan dominant types.
And they, you know, they used to they used to ship some of that stuff in macadamia nuts.
Oh, wow. They did. They used to ship it to the states.
They used to hide it in the center of macadamia nut tins.
Yeah. And stuff like that. And so, you know, Hawaiian was sort of a was sort of a catch all phrase.
There is no indigenous Hawaiian. Yeah. Right.
It was all basically entrepreneurs bringing other indigenous weed to Hawaii and trying to figure out how to get worthwhile buds.
Yeah. It's basically what it boiled down to.
And, you know, what's interesting about like the Hawaiian that I have, what we call it, and the only reason why we call it the Maui is because I was dumb and I didn't ask any fucking questions.
So the only thing that we knew was the dude was from Maui. Yeah.
But that's it. I met Fast Eddie. I doubt you met you met Fast Eddie because the Fast Eddie that you probably met was a very famous dude from Dead Tour who is part of the wrecking crew.
Maybe you met Fast Eddie from the Brotherhood of Eternal Love, but around.
But yeah, I've never been able to get a hold of him. I've tried a lot.
But the fact the Fast Eddie that most people are familiar with is from the wrecking crew. He was he was a pretty famous person on. He goes, yeah, that guy.
It was it was a pretty famous dude on Deadlot. If you went to Dead Tour on any level, you probably heard him be like, does he have the deepest voice?
He would scream at little kids and stuff and they were all drunk and they were just a mess. But anyway.
So there's an aspect where, you know, so that's Hawaiian. Hawaiian is anything that got brought to Hawaii.
And got grown there. Yeah, basically. Right. Yeah. And then it just gets the name Hawaiian.
And just like a lot of what we've talked about this before, but just like a lot of stuff where it obscures like we give nicknames to things and it obscures the origin of where it came from.
That's what Hawaiian did. You know, Seattle Grey got Hawaiian, which isn't very helpful.
Then you get pure Mexican, pure Colombian, a blend, a blend with Afghan.
He didn't know. Yeah. They could tell was Mexican Colombian because that was Mexican Colombian, you know.
And so, you know, and so that's what got blended in. And back then, especially, you know, nobody knew that all this stuff was going to be famous and lineage and all that was going to get poured over and be super important.
Right. Yeah. And notes were a bad thing. So it is like saying, oh, I got the Californian.
Yeah, there was a California indica that made it around the Amsterdam. I got the Californian.
You know, it's about it. It gives you an idea of where the area was from. Right.
And so, you know, what's interesting is that being that I'm not from Hawaii and I don't really have any ties there, I do have we I do have some good friends that grew up on the island on various islands and grown there their whole life.
And when I showed them pictures and flowers of my Maui cut, they did say that there was that wasn't that uncommon of a phenotype that they had seen in the past in Hawaii and that they had grown from the past.
Yeah. You know, so Hawaii is sort of like a catch all from people get stuff, you know, I mean, like, like, there was even a thing we were talking about a couple episodes ago during the chem dog episode where there's a Maui.
Yeah. Why is it called Maui dog? Because someone got a supposedly a dog, but seed and took it to Maui. Yeah.
Opted on Maui. And now it's Maui dog. Yeah. So the interesting thing, there's some pictures of Maui on my page. It's really interesting. It's huge. It's chunky. It's pretty short. It's got a bunch of Afghan influence.
But if you look at it, the leaves are incredibly skinny and double serrated. Yeah. There's this aspect where it's my audio kicking out. It's just off my back off from your video.
Kind of. I mean, we can hear you, but it's just off from your speaking. You look like you're in a Kung Fu movie. I look like I'm in a Kung Fu. Is it better now? No, but it'll work. It'll work. So sorry that sorry that it's ad libbed or whatever. Like, I'm dubbed. Hopefully that changes. But.
But yeah, so my Maui is, you know, CSI is always looking to do things that match. Right. And so in addition to my headband, I've shared a bunch of stuff with him in the hopes that he would breed it and it would get out to a wider audience a bit. And one of the things that's going to get dropped with Matt and CSI is my Maui by the Hawaiian lights.
I think I don't know if that one or Maui by NL five, it might be just be it might be Maui by NL five. But anyway, he used it. So, you know, and so there's an aspect to where it's like.
You know, it's been out there before. There's a cut from Mandelbrot called the truth.
Which is Maui by Superdog that I made 20 plus years ago or something like that. So it's percolated around and it's kind of been a Mendo. It's been a Mendocino County classic because it's probably not now with the way the market is.
But for a long time, it was one of those cuts that you could put outside, reliably get four or five pounds off it and it would be done in the middle of October.
Yeah. Yeah, that's very decent. It's pretty. I remember I remember seeing pictures of it. I've never I don't think I've ever smoked Maui, but I remember seeing pictures of it and thinking it was absolutely gorgeous, especially for an outdoor plant.
Yeah. And it turns purple in the cold, you know, and stuff like that. And it's obviously some kind of sativa Afghan blend, because if you look at the buds and the density and how quick it finishes, it's got a heavy Afghan, you know, but it's leaves are like that's I mean, it's like super skinny leaves. They don't even fatten. Really.
They're just like consistently skinny the whole way down. And they've got a bunch of double serrations. What's it smell like? You know, it smells kind of it smell. I mean, it's one of those ones where when I asked, oh, God, let's not do that. Yeah, I'll get all irritated. It's one of those ones where I've asked tremors for years and years what it smells like. Yeah.
And you get ranges from my favorite is, you know, Wrigley Wrigley fruity gum. That's a good smell. You know, it's got a super distinctive smell. And I will say jokingly that it's I joke that it's like my longest female relationship because we popped that seed in 1994. Yeah. And I still have it. So she's 28 years this year.
28. Yeah. Fucking old. Yeah, that's really old. It's fucking old. And so I've had her literally she was the next to the crystal chunk. She was the second weed that I ever really started religiously cropping. Yeah. And if you're in Indiana or Chicago or Illinois area and you ever smoked the Maui, it's very likely it's the same cut because that's where we cropped it first. And a bunch of friends grew it out there and probably still grow it here and there.
You know, yeah, it's not elite by today's standards in terms of like the high, but it's probably it's got a good high, but it's not up there with the best of the best, in my opinion, you know, but it's got a bunch of amazing qualities and it it's, you know, it breeds really well for for color and frost and structure and all that type of stuff. It's really consistent. And it'll probably be another show, but it is blended into some very famous stuff.
You know that we won't dive into. But all I know is all I know is where it's from. Yeah, that's the reality. That's how it goes. It was from an old dude on Maui that had been growing there for a long time. And he basically said he grew things and acclimated him there. And he came over to Amsterdam to trade seeds with friends. Yeah. And he would bring stuff back and mix it into his lines and dada dada dada.
And so he said it was an Afghan that finished quick and yielded well and was resistant. And you could see the you know, you could see the the sativa in it. And so I have pretty high hopes that CSI will blend it into a few different things because it's such a stable breeder. And the other part about it that I really like is that when anytime you get anything that's that old, it's lineage ties to something completely different than what's a mishmash of today.
Yeah, that's true. Anything from the mid 90s doesn't really have any of the most famous 40 or 50 cuts that we usually talk about that's in it. Yeah. So a lot of times when you're breeding, you get the best results when you start breeding things that are kind of unlike each other and not too related. So it's not related to cam or kush or this or that or that, that, that, that, that, that, you know, and so it hasn't been overused and over blended.
You know, and so there's a Matt sent me a thing this morning about all the.
So I started reading stuff and got distracted. But, you know, we could one day do I we have some good friends that probably would be a lot better experts on like Hawaiian growing culture and famous strains and stuff like that. I don't really feel it's like my place to like lead a kind of discussion like that. It's not an area where my knowledge goes hella deep.
Yeah. I mean, I've heard plenty of stories secondhand. I've had, you know, I know a bunch of growers from over there and stuff like that over the years. You know, but, you know, we can do a whole episode where people could ask questions.
You know, but we did think it was worth mentioning. We did think it was cool to talk about because Hawaiian is sort of getting like brought back in because of this interest in the NL and NL five and what Greg was doing. And, and, you know, maybe, maybe there's an aspect of like talking about what Hawaiian was. Yeah. Yeah. Was beneficial. So, you know, Hawaiian is is sort of and like what Hawaiian was isn't what Hawaiian is.
That's correct. Yeah. Because what Hawaiian was back then might have been a mix of Colombian and Mexican and some Afghans and stuff that the brotherhood of eternal love was doing. But Hawaii now is just another place that clones get sent. Right. So it's got cherry pie and it's got skunks and it's got this and it's got Thames and dada dada dada and you know, so on and so forth and whatnot. Yeah. It is a cool place in the sense that there's a, you know, it's super humid there.
And it's a totally different environment. And so you have to find things that do well in that environment. Yeah. You know what? I, that would be a good idea. Maybe we can have Paco Lolo in paradise on and yeah. That's why I didn't want to talk about it. We have some resources and some friends that would be far more educated because that's their neck of the woods to talk about that kind of stuff than we would be.
I just wanted to bring it up in the sense that we've been getting a bunch of questions about Hawaiian and Hawaiian lights and you know, what's, what's your Maui and stuff like that. And you know, Maui is one of those ones where I even lost it sadly for a number of years due to some unfortunate circumstances. But because it was a classic grown by old timers around my area in Mendo, it, it, it lived. Yeah.
Cause like I said, you know, there was, you know, in, in an era where like weed was weed to some degree, um, you know, a four to six pound reliable plant that was done in the middle of October was pretty beneficial. Yeah. So it was kind of one of those things I brought, I brought it out in 98 or whatever and started spreading it around and it's kind of percolated around our area off and on since then. And it's still around there. Yeah.
Uh, yeah. I mean, I still have it. I live here. Uh, there's a few friends that have it. Uh, it's certainly probably under pressure with how few strains sell currently, you know, and how rough the market has become and how, how low the market has become recently. Um, but it definitely still exists. Um, I gave it to, like I said, I gave it to CSI, um, to, uh, breed with, you know, and preserve help preserve.
You know, it's always, it's always risky when you're trying to save things. You have to find people that have an interest in stuff that were willing to hold onto it. Yeah. Right. Because there could be a fire, there could be an accident, there could be a bus, there could be any number of different things. Um, people are talking about what's a low, high white widow.
I don't really know much about low high widow except for Amsterdam, except for it was white widow from Amsterdam popped on in Hawaii.
No seeds was from Amsterdam.
Yeah. They were a Dutch company and they, they made it and they just called it a low hot white widow. So everybody assumed it was, you know, a Hawaiian white widow.
See, there you go. I even assumed. Yeah. Yeah. I just assumed that it was a, it was another one of those things where you're in, um, you know, you're in it's, it was just one of those things where it's like, oh, it's from Hawaii. Let's add Hawaii.
I actually called a low ha seed bank in Amsterdam. God, when I first heard about the strength, cause I wanted to see if I could still get the source it at the time. Um, yeah, they wouldn't even talk about what was in it or any of that. But yeah, it was, it was their, their seed line. They weren't just, they just weren't interested in selling it anymore.
So it's sort of one of those things where a Soma decided to call a line, New York city diesel. Exactly. And it's not sour diesel, but we'll call it diesel. Cause it was the first, you know? Yeah. Um, so who knows? Who knows? I was mistaken right there. I didn't actually know its back history. I've never personally grown it, you know? Um, so, so I think probably like 99% of people had no clue that it was a low hot seat to Amsterdam.
Um, it's just, it's just how it's always gone. Everybody was a low hollow widow. Of course it would be. And that's, that's one of the things that Matt and I always talk about where it's like, you can make misleading statements and not outright lie. And then people will just assume. Yeah, like, you know, these genetics are authentic.
By the way, I was super stoked a long time ago. I made a joke about how you could rename blueberry or blue dream and call it blueberry fucking yum yum. And someone would probably buy it. I just today saw a strain called blueberry yum yum taken off. Oh man. Damn. Hot damn. Called it.
Oh, somebody is talking about NCGA.
Rob 10% Rob, you know?
So yeah, I mean there's the, the, the, the name game and then creating assumptions based on that. Yeah. Um, you know, I mean 20 years ago if something was, was named after some kind of smell or aroma or whatever, it probably had some kind of distinctive remembrance of that. Yeah. Uh, now it's, it has no connection to it.
Is it a ludicrous song? I call it blueberry yum yum out my ass, but God damn.
It's hard being original. I wouldn't have known that. It's very hard being original. So yeah, I mean there's, there's aspects where, you know, Hawaiian, um, uh, you know, it's probably going to remain a mystery. And when anytime, anytime you have like a mystery.
Right. That's hard to be proven. You're going to get people that are going to claim that they have knowledge and they have facts behind the rumor. And it's like, Oh, well you might not have had the Hawaiian that went to Greg, but we did. Yeah. That was my uncle.
Yeah. Yeah. That was my dad. That was my uncle. That was my, that was my dad's best friend. That was my, you know, my aunts, you know, my, my aunt's boyfriend, whoever, you know, because you can't really refute it. And that's really popular in cannabis. Um, it is being able to not refute things.
Well, I mean, you saw just, just in this episode, just in this 20 minutes or whatever, that we've been live, you saw one person come in here, ask for an opinion because they weren't sure. And then flip out because it was counter to what they wanted to hear.
I missed that part. I'm not very good at patting my head and rubbing my stomach. So I ignore a lot of the comments, not because they're not valuable, but because I have a hard time like bullshitting and reading at the same time. Yeah. You know, my brain.
My brain was in here repeatedly asking about someone nonstop and then asked about someone that referred him to that person. Um, someone from Virginia that dude. So I was just like, dude, stop. Yeah. I mean, I don't know. There's, and there's aspects to where it's like, sometimes people make a really good assumption that like, this is old enough and this is mysterious enough that it'll never be outed.
Oh yeah. Yeah. I think most of them that do it think that think that it's old enough and it's in the past enough. And it's, I mean, we even saw it when I won't even mention their name, but we did this, that we outed somebody a few years ago. Um, that consistently had, he was a younger cat and he consistently had strains that were from one to two years before they were ever released.
Yeah. And you could just tell that they were just hunting on the forums for early info. Yeah. And then they figured they'd, they'd ratchet it back for a week, a year or two. And then they didn't realize that there was people that were actually alive and in cannabis then. Yeah. You know? Um, yeah, he didn't even, that dude didn't even go look at the catalogs to see if he could get the, you're right. He's just like, fuck it.
We won't even talk about that. But when I first saw him on Instagram, I thought that dude was like in his fifties. He would have had to have been. And then I figured it. And then I figured out he was like 27 and I was like, what in the fuck? You know? No. Yeah. So, you know, and yeah, there's a thing. I mean, there's multiple people that, that have claimed, um, you know, that have claimed connection to various seed banks or various people or various this or that. And, you know, uh, one of the cool things about the internet is that it's linked to a bunch of us.
And so you get a chance to, you know, you get a chance to ask those people and then they're like, hell no. Yeah. You know? And, uh, you know, and so, you know, there's a, yeah, someone picked it up. Skunk 18, bam, uncle Fester's skunk 18, uh, nature fraud.
I noticed someone mentioned about the, uh, seeds being federally legal. And I, at first I was like, what first that's from a source, like a single source. And I'm not a hundred percent sure on what they posted. But if, if, um, cannabis seeds were to be classified as hemp seeds, you'd still need a hemp license. You need a seed distribution license and you'd only be distributing in your state. So no, I think you can send it.
I think you can send it out of state, but I think the issue is, is that you can't just be like, I'm going to send my buddy in Florida, a bunch of seeds and write hemp and we're good. No, you have to have, there has to be a legitimate companies in both States because hemp is legal.
You registered in the state of California as a California hemp seed company. Yes. And you'd have to send it to a registered. I use it. How it works. You'd have to be in the market for them to buy the seed because hemp is hemp was put in the farm bill. Yeah. So it's, um, it's legal in all 50 States. Yes. It's not a state. It's not a state by state thing. And there's even, there's even hemp transports where you can transport legal hemp clones from one state to another.
Interesting. But you still, to this day, after working at the hemp farm, I know that they cannot buy anything, not licensed to be sold in California by a hemp registered. Sure. That might be a different. So yes, technically it's legal, but there's, but it's still like you have to have two hemp businesses. It has to be a legitimate sale between hemp businesses. It's not like I'm going to send a bunch of hemp seeds legally.
We haven't gotten to the point where it's like tomato seeds or something like that, where it's just like enthusiasts can just trade whatever the fuck they want. Yeah. I mean, I just ran through this and experienced it with the California hemp laws and like register trying to register to be a breeder of hemp and stuff like you have to do go through so many fucking hoops. Maybe that's just California too, but you have to go through so many hoops to be able to grow hemp in California for sure.
Yeah. I mean, I'm sure, I'm sure state state by state, they can put their own regulations on it. Yeah. But I don't believe that any state can make hemp illegal because it's a federally federally legal on the farm bill. It's just, it's not illegal, but it's heavily regulated.
And I think what happened is, is that all these people in all these different states jumped into hemp and there wasn't a pipeline for that much CBD or CBG or hemp products yet.
Yeah. And people are saying that, um, like Costco doesn't have a license. No, but they're selling hemp that's been treated with heat. That's a whole nother different kind of license. Everything else. Once it's been treated with heat, it's unviable. So of course they can sell that. Yeah. I mean, that's, that's been around forever, but yes, it has.
So I don't know. I mean, there's a, but yeah, there's, there's been, I mean, that's one of the, one of the reoccurring frauds in cannabis is just like, you know, since new people are in every five or 10 years, you can recycle the same garbage over and over again, you know?
And then people get all mad and they start coming on and defending themselves. And then the people that told the lie first, they start to change aspects of it. Cause they realize they've been outed, you know, and they have to shift what it is, you know? Um, and it's just one of those, it's just one of those areas that's like, right for bullshit.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, um, you know, I, uh, I don't, um, I don't, I'm not making anything off of, uh, off of, off, off these things. I'm not profiting in any way. I'm not trying to jump into the seed game. I've had a bunch of friends trying me to trying to get me to, uh, one of them is on, is, is on your screen right now.
Um, but, uh, I've resisted, you know? Um, and it's nothing, it's nothing against people that make seed for money or anything like that. Cause obviously I have a bunch of friends that do so. Um, but like part of passing out, uh, you know, clones and stuff like that to good friends, uh, and especially CSI is that he's got enough of a Matt and CSI and others have enough of a customer base that you can get good stuff out there. That's different.
Yeah. And one of the ways that like, you know, I've said it before, but, um, probably the person that probably the person that did the biggest guarantee that my Mendo perps will never disappear from the community is Caleb. Yeah. Because he fell in love with it and he grew, he crossed it to a shit ton of different things. And enough people bought that, that even if the mom was to terribly get lost, her children and grandchildren are fricking everywhere.
Yeah.
And so that's really, if you want to talk about legacy with seeds, um, or anything else, you know, anytime anything gets popular, like all of a sudden, you know, Caleb releases, um, some LA, some chem D and, and LA and some, and some TK in LA. Right. Um, that he reversed and people are finding amazing things in it. And now for the first time ever, all of a sudden you start to see clone sellers popping up with the cut.
Yeah.
Um, and you start to see fricking, uh, and you start to see, um, you know, people popping up with, with, you know, crosses that have it, you know, and all that different types of shit. And so, you know, it's, it's just one of the things that goes along with popularity.
Yeah.
You could probably go back six months and before our year, before I started talking about it and nobody has it.
Yeah. Nobody was ever talking about the LA headband before we started talking about it. So nobody was mentioning it.
Nobody was mentioning it. I mean, not that it hadn't existed before and not that it didn't exist with Mandelbrot seeds 15 years ago or something like that. But in the last five or six years it was, it was nowhere.
Yeah.
Right. And so, and now all of a sudden, and really it only got my name, I didn't even want it to have my name. Um, people were just trying to differentiate like how, what to call what headband.
Yeah.
And so they attached it to it. So it's like, people always assume that I'm getting some royalty or I'm getting some kind of, um, you know, aspect or I'm getting cuts or, you know, payback or whatever.
And they're assuming also sometimes that you verified said cut.
Yeah, but I verified it and that's why it has it. And so, you know, there's an aspect to it where it's like, the only reason why I passed it out to a few good friends is just to hopefully have people that get weed that I like a whole bunch and get that into some hybrids.
That's really it. Just so everybody knows, you know, so if you start seeing, you know, people pop up on clone traders and this and that and everything else, it's not like I'm the only person on earth that has it, but it's very, very small circle and it's most likely a scam.
Yeah.
At this point, you know, if it becomes incredibly popular, like everything else, it'll probably leak and there'll be some, you know, but I mean, it's really just, Oh, somebody, somebody's finding a bunch of fire. I have that.
Yeah.
You want it? It's 400 bucks. Oh, I'm breeding with that. I got seeds of it already. I got that.
Yep.
And that's the seed name game.
And that's the seed name game.
And that's, it's as far back as like, as people in Amsterdam not wanting to give out lineage just so their competitors would all copy that lineage instantaneously.
Yeah.
So, you know, just for clarification on that, like it, it, it's not, and there's nothing wrong with selling seeds or this or that or whatever else, but it's like my entire breeding is like not been, that's not been, I bred for, cause I liked good weed.
Yeah.
You know?
Um, and I think it makes some people mad that they can't attack me for fucking them over or like, or breeding Hermes shit or this or that or whatever, you know?
And, and really when it comes down to it too, is like, you know, a bunch of our friends have been talking to, talking about it.
And it's like, if this seed crash leads to a financial crash for a bunch of people, it might go back to a small handful of enthusiasts making seeds.
And it will be, I really think it will be.
Yeah.
Because 95% of the people as you know, I've gotten into seed breeding in the last five or six years with the intention that it could be another revenue stream and it could get their name out there and it could get this and that.
And part of the reason why so much stuff today comes from so few breeders from 20 years ago is because nobody bothered to breed.
Yeah.
It wasn't all that common.
Yeah.
Because it wasn't, there wasn't money in it.
Yeah.
There wasn't a lot of money in it.
People think there's a lot of money in it now, but there's only a few people making a lot of money.
Yeah.
There's only a few people and there's, and you know, and so there was a minute there in IG where people could sell seeds and make their own private hybrids and like sell them to their followers and all that.
And that seems to be collapsing a little bit right now.
Yeah.
So we'll see in two or three years how many of those people really love making seeds and care about breeding and which ones it was just another Avenue.
Yeah.
For revenue.
I'm not that there's anything wrong with revenue, you know, nothing wrong with it.
I have seen a massive, the one thing, I mean, whether people hate me or like me, I haven't got away and I've seen a massive overturn since I've gotten here and I'm, I'm expecting a super massive overturn because I mean, just in the past five years, you know, thousands of people making seeds, trying to sell it, this popped up and it's going to get a lot harder.
That's the problem too, is that since most people started recently, you know, they're grabbing what they have available to them.
That's recent.
So all this breeding is like all the same five or six, you know, five or six years of the most recent, most famous stuff.
Yeah.
And I, uh, I don't think that you're going to find anything magically different crossing cherry pie and cush.
No.
I think that people have tried that over and over and over and over and over ad nauseam and, you know, and you're probably not going to find anything new using Cushman's.
No.
And I'm not even dissing those strains.
Don't get me wrong.
I'm not.
I'm just saying that unique to today.
It's funny.
It seems unique from it.
You know?
Yeah.
I mean, there was, there's a guy commenting.
There was a bunch of people that had the surprising thing about, about the head.
My headband cut is not that it's mine or whatever, because it's, I didn't make it or anything, but that most people won't hold onto anything unless it's making them money right now.
Yeah.
So there's an enormous amount of stuff like, uh, you know, 15 years ago, I knew dozens and dozens of growers that had Urkel and grape ape and GDP and green crack even.
Yeah.
And green crack.
And then as soon as the market changed, six people kept it.
Yeah.
There was a bunch of people that had headband 15 years ago, you know, or sours, you know?
Yeah.
I mean, I even had a friend call me the other day, uh, who's lifelong, uh, resident of Southern Humboldt and they're looking for sour cuts.
Yeah.
Because in the last two or three years, everybody has been, um, popping all, you know, working with all this candy and all this dessert and all this purple and all this stuff.
And now people are starting to ask for it again and nobody kept it.
It's not like it doesn't exist.
They'll be able to get it back again eventually, but maybe they don't get back the same one.
Yeah.
That's, that's, that's a big deal.
That's why a lot of people don't have Urkel.
Like you said, Urkel was one of the most grown things up there.
Everybody that had more than 10 lights in Mendo was growing Urkel or great babe or something like that.
Mendo, they were all growing purples.
Yeah.
You know?
Um, and, uh, you know, and then, you know, when sour and cush came in, um, everybody dropped it.
Yeah.
When cookies came in, a bunch of people dropped sours.
When this came in, a bunch of people dropped that.
And, uh, I do think there's going to be a, a Renaissance of some of those strains because they're better in my opinion than a lot of the modern cuts.
Absolutely.
They'll come back.
They taste better.
They work better.
They're longer lasting.
They have more unique eyes, you know, that type of thing.
So I think they will make a comeback.
Um, you know, uh, but you know, there's, I mean, I'm the, my sour that I have, I've had this sour since the very early two thousands.
I don't know which one it is.
Yeah.
Um, but it's not most of the ones I've collected a whole bunch of them.
Um, and it's not most of them.
I haven't found one.
I haven't found one.
I kept hoping I'm like, oh, maybe it's the Chaco.
Maybe it's the Amish.
Maybe it's the Joe B.
Maybe it's the, uh, ECSD.
Maybe it's the NYCD.
Maybe it's the, you know, um, and, uh, it's, it's really hard as you really can't tell diesels apart by pictures.
No, not, no, they all tend to look super scum.
You really have to grow them side by side and you really have to kind of smoke them if you want to pick out differences.
Yeah.
You know, so, um, you know, what I know about my sour is that it's old and that we kept it and that's about it.
You know, the headband got renamed sour by a bunch of people.
Um, it got, you know, it got tossed around, but it was a little bit more finicky than regular sour and it could freak out on you sometimes.
So a lot of people got rid of it cause it wasn't as easy as the other ones.
Yeah.
You know, and, and then people get rid of their cut.
And one thing that I've learned is that if I would have lost my sour cut, even though I have six or seven other different ones right now, um, it, none of them are that one.
Yeah.
And there's a bunch of people that always talk about, you know, I tried to get back that thing that I had and I can't find the sour diesel cut or the blue dream cut or the GDP cut or the Trinity.
I can't get it back.
It's like this one's good, but it's not, um, but it's not, it's not what it is.
I, um, Duke, you made a good comment.
He said the scum search should start in a sour S1.
And I agree, but I think the places I saw it the most were when you cross two different expressions of super skunk was where I was seeing it just constantly pop up.
I thought that was, but I think that you can probably find that in this hour.
S1 it's just, you can't make them.
The problem is with sour S1 is that like it fails or you get like 20 seats.
Exactly.
That's why, that's why I even went with crossing two super skunks that are, that are different expressions, like a sour energy.
But I do agree with him.
I think that diesels are modern skunk.
Yes.
I think it's one of the most classic examples of a modern skunk oil type plant that we have.
Yeah.
Diesels are modern skunk.
And the good thing about the diesels is that unlike a lot of other things where you could be like, oh, that one's fake or whatever.
Most of the diesels are pretty fucking nice, man.
Yeah.
They burn good.
They smoke good.
They have, you know, they range in gassy to more headband aromas, stuff like that, but grown well, taken long enough, dried, right.
They, they work.
Yeah.
Um, they work, they're good, you know?
So it's one of my favorite families.
So, you know, there's probably like at this point from my experimentation, there's at least 10 or 12 cuts that are all different from each other that circulate.
Yeah.
And of course everyone wants to be like, oh, mine's the oldest, mine's the original, mine's the one you remember.
That's why you should pay X amount for it.
Yeah.
In clone form or in weed form, because I can try it, take it back right to 95.
You don't know the bros that I know.
Except for most of those people haven't been growing since 95.
I mean, whatever, you know, I just, I just, in the sense that, that it's like, then it becomes a.
You know, that's really what it becomes.
It becomes a marketing gig.
But luckily, you know, they, a lot of them still exist and they're most of them are all good.
There's only one or two that I didn't like very much.
Yeah.
I liked, I liked, um, uh, your growth, the Amish.
I'd never tried it before that.
Oh, that was that those couple of years that I brought it to the party.
It was fire.
It was, dude, all the diesels you grew were flavorful.
They all had that mouth coating thing in common, but they were all super flavorful outdoor.
I never really had much diesel outdoor that was good.
And that year it wasn't, it wasn't straight outdoor.
It was greenhouse.
So I had a little bit more control.
It was sun grown.
It was sun grown.
I do.
I'm a, I'm an indoor grower.
So anything that's not fucking pure indoor to me is outdoor.
I mean, somebody mentioned, somebody mentioned, I'll bring it up.
Somebody mentioned PIP's ECSD.
Um, you know, PIP gave me his ECSD to try, uh, as one of my, like, which one of these sours is my sour.
And it wasn't my sour.
It's one of them that I liked a whole bunch.
And when he came out to the party that year, um, he was like, dude, I've only grown it this good once or twice.
Yeah.
You know, and I mean, some of that's probably, I did a nice job on the growing it, but, uh, you know, sun's real nice light.
Yeah, dude.
Diesel's love the sun.
The sun is a great light.
So if you get good weather with the sun and you get warm, nice days that go into late October, early November, and you can take that sour late.
Most people with sour, the problem that became with sour up here is that as soon as it got the nose, people would cut it.
Yeah.
And it probably needed another 10 days to two weeks.
And it's real easy for it to go from being a good nose when you cut it to turning complete booth.
Once you try to fucking cure it, I've seen sour go bad so many times just in the cure.
People are asking what AJ's is, you know, I don't, I mean, I know AJ a little bit, but, um,
you know what AJ's was, what AJ's was in the late nineties and early two thousands does not seem to be the same thing that he has currently as AJ's.
Yeah.
I'll say that.
Um, and it's not, you know, and there's even times where I, people are talking about like, oh, there's this like, like names I've never heard of.
Yeah.
Right.
Like, oh, now there's the real sour.
Now there's that Albany sour.
Yeah.
Now, now there's names that like never even existed during the forum days or anything like that, but there's new terms that are popping up the real deal.
Yeah.
And that people will be like, I'm convinced that this real deal sour is your headband.
Yeah.
And I'm like, I don't know.
How would I know?
How the fuck would you know?
How would I know?
How would you know?
You know, like how would you could give it to me and I'll try it, I suppose, or whatever, but it's like, it's not, I can't tell you, you know?
But like I said, luckily, most of these cuts of diesel cuts are real nice.
Yeah.
Most of them get you nice and high.
Most of them burn well.
You know?
Yeah.
I mean, Amherst, sour diesel, right?
Fucking I mean, he's, he's passed now, but Mandelbrot made that up.
Yeah.
That was my sour diesel that I gave Don that he crossed into a bunch of stuff and he just decided that it was from Amherst and added Amherst to it.
Cause that's what he thought.
I didn't get it from Amherst, you know?
So, but it gets sticks.
Yeah.
Albany real, the real sour.
That's not a, that's not a leading statement, right?
Yeah.
Right.
To convince people, the origins, which one is it?
Oh, the real one.
The real one.
The real one.
You know?
Yeah.
The, the original, original, the real original, real verified, you know, actually sour diesel.
I'm just gonna let actually.
Yeah.
It seems like the Chaco cut is the same thing as the ECSD.
Yeah.
These names are so it's kind of like cush.
The names get so interchangeable that one piece for one person's Diablo G could be another person's SFE.
Yeah.
You know?
And, and all that, you know?
So you know, and, and really like when I got my sour cut it came helpfully labeled sour D.
Yeah.
It didn't have any moniker on it.
And then I never got, I never got AJ's or res is or Chaco or ECSD because I already had the diesel.
What, what is a plant spanker?
So I've never heard of her.
Never heard of her.
Okay.
Keep going.
You know?
And so, so yeah, people, people get, people get stuff that gets attached to it.
Yeah.
You know, whose is it?
Oh, it comes from this dude.
So it's his.
Who's is it?
Oh, it's this.
Well, you know, Amish got named it because it came out of Pennsylvania and there's a bunch of Amish.
And that one was from Shroomy and it's also called Shroomy's diesel too.
So it calls Shroomy's diesel.
Yeah.
You know?
And so there's, you know, there's, there's a lot of stuff like that where nicknames get added and subtracted.
I don't know what the real deal sour is.
I don't know what the Albany sour is, but it's like, as, as more of the story comes out, I would assume that like Albany is just trying to tie it to Manny and some of the original sour people.
Yeah.
And you know, what's funny is like, we know the term from Vondo that they called the sour that they all prefer the Manny.
And we don't really mention that much, but I guarantee that someone's going to pop up with that motherfucking Manny in two weeks or a week.
You know?
You know?
Yeah.
I mean, there's, and you know, and, and so sometimes one of those things, just like, just, just like the, the dog isn't really, you know, it's not really, you know, skunk VA's dog.
Yeah.
But he gets on the forums and he's the first guy talking about it.
And which cut is it?
Oh, it's the skunk VA cut.
Yeah.
You know?
Oh, it's not so's headband.
Yeah.
Cause you're trying to figure out some kind of language to chat about it.
It's Matt Riott's 12 inch cock.
I get that all the time.
I just, just because I, it was, yeah, that's just the difference between our measurements and metric and metric, you know, people getting inches, inches and centimeters, you know, totally confused, inches and centimeters.
But, but yeah, you know, and I know, I mean, someone just said, Hey, for the preservation, I'm not even dissing.
I've known a skunk VA for 20, 20 plus years.
I'm not dissing him.
That's not my intention whatsoever.
I'm just saying he didn't attach his name to it.
It was, it was actually Caleb who attached his attached skunk VA his name to it because that was the source that it came from.
Yeah.
And it's like, so, you know, which had, you know, which headband, you know not so's headband, you know?
Yeah.
I hate that one.
Oh my God.
I don't even use, I don't even, I don't even like that word hate, but I really despise the murder.
And like, the funny thing is like the 56 day, that's what it was told to me when I got it.
No six, but it's not 56.
It's more like nine weeks or 10 weeks at least.
Someone just said, son simulator had something to do with sensing me later had nothing to do with the creation of diesel, but he did make some nice diesel hybrids later on.
I do agree with that.
He did a cool strawberry diesel.
Yeah.
Lumpa headband.
Lumpa headband is most likely a OG Kush S1 bag seed.
And in that case, Lupa did name that motherfucker after himself.
He did.
He did have an ego boost and name it after himself.
That was intentional, but sometimes it's not intentional.
Skunk VA, he didn't intend on it.
And actually chem dog got a little hyphy about it because it was like technically his gut.
And all of a sudden people are calling it skunk VA's cut.
Yeah.
I'm kind of embarrassed about my not so headband because I don't really attach myself to stuff like that.
Yeah.
I didn't name it not so as Mendo perps or anything like that.
I guess you got to have depends on whether or not you want to have an ego attachment to it.
Yeah.
You know, but really when it comes down to it, when you get back to breeding all the stupid names, all the attachments, all the everything else.
The only thing that people are going to remember is if it's good weed.
Yeah.
So you are my phone.
My phone's getting down to like 10%.
So let's cover some of that real quick.
All right.
So there's this thing going around right now that really irritates the piss out of me.
And there is, you know, they've been pushing all this stuff with the Emerald Cup judging and all that.
And SC Labs has come out with this new classification and they're trying to get rid of using sativa and indica, which that's a different discussion.
Yeah, I agree.
I agree that that we that there could be better terms.
There could be better terminology applied to that.
What they want to replace it to is that and what they're using for the Emerald Cup this year is the most ridiculous bullshit I've ever seen.
Yeah.
And the reason why is because they have six categories and I'll try to do them off of memory.
But it's Hayes, Jack and Hayes.
Yeah.
And it's this probably won't be in order.
OG and gas.
Yeah.
Sweet dreams.
Sweet and dreams.
Desserts, exotics.
What's the final one?
Tropical and floral.
Tropical and floral.
Right.
Which are two different.
And so like that's the most ridiculous smell and terpene classifications I've ever heard in my life.
Exotics.
What is exotic?
What's exotic?
I mean, do they go off the exotic Mike definition of exotics where runs is an exotic?
Well, I mean, just exotic is like exotic is something that's unusual to you.
Yeah, exactly.
That's all exotic.
I'd be like, like, you know, maybe some Southeast Asians I would consider exotics or some wild Africans.
We've never seen live there.
It's not exotic.
It's common.
Exactly.
So how can you have my be what is you over there?
What is sweets and dreams?
Sweets and dreams is the one that makes the like no sense to me.
And then, you know, like and then there's an aspect of, okay, so you've got sweets plus dreams and then you've got desserts.
Now, I get dessert cookies as a marketing campaign where everything they name is dessert based.
Yeah, so I get the whole.
So they have cookies and they have sherbert and they have flan and they have fucking this and that bullshit, whatever.
And none of it tastes like the specific dessert.
Exactly.
It's just they have a theme.
Yeah, right.
I will say that cookies, the original thin mint, which they can't say anymore because Girl Scouts suit them, but it did have kind of a doughy flavor.
Yeah, I don't get that from any of it.
All I taste is OG, but I know people do do get that from it.
So it's also like how you smell, how you taste different things.
I mean, I can at least.
Okay, it's got some kind of doughy type aroma to it.
You know, there's some people, but what is exotics?
But it was neither thin nor mint.
That's right.
What is what is exotics?
What is what is dessert weed?
What is dreams?
What is dreams?
What is that?
You fucking need like blue dream, even Jack and Hayes.
Okay, so Jack and Hayes in California.
Like, you know that it's mostly terpene.
Yeah, but that's by no means the only Hayes aromas in Hayes.
In fact, I would put blue dream in the Jackson Hayes category more than I would like a blueberry category.
But I certainly wouldn't make a category for dreams based off one strain.
But, you know, it's like even if so, even like all in back in New York, right, where there's a bunch of Hayes cuts that are still pretty famous and kept.
You know, they don't the best ones they have back there aren't terpene.
They don't smell like Jack.
They smell like frankincense.
They smell like church.
They smell there's a variety of smells.
So I'm going to respond to one thing.
Someone said they are leaning into genetics.
No, they're not.
And chemo bar.
This is not based on chemo bar, which I think is important.
And I appreciate the effort in advancing discussion.
The thing is, this discussion was already advanced past indica and sativa and hybrid long ago.
And it's only the people that aren't very well read on the subject that are still there.
And you have that, which is so I think, by Robert Clark, just so everyone knows that when you're judging at the Emerald Cup, all these jars are labeled and no one has any supposedly has any idea what they are.
Yeah, they're supposed to just just blind smoke and gas and smell and look and share.
It doesn't come with, oh, this is white runs from X and X farm.
Yeah, it's just sample number 148.
Yep.
You know, and we're going to name this is this dessert to you.
Is this dreams?
Do you feel dreamy when you smoke this?
Yeah, it's this dream that that still blows my mind because I, you know, even the even the even the OG, even the OG and gas.
It's like, yeah, in OG, there's piney.
There's earthy.
There's so much depth in OG itself.
And you can't just combine diesel and kush into the same category as gassy OG.
What?
Yeah.
What about what about the like the Irene ones that are more sweet cereal?
Oh, geez.
I just and one of the ones that are ones that are like lemony and pine soul.
Yeah.
And one of the straight earthy mouth coat.
Yeah.
So really, to me, I'm not trying to diss them or whatever, but it really is a step backwards.
And I really don't want that kind of language to start being used because, you know, what the fuck is dreams?
Yeah.
What the fuck is dream?
Yeah.
The thing my point was, like, I agree in advancing the conversation because I do not think in that case, indica and sativa and hybrid are accurate.
However, someone already did that.
But like someone pointed out, Merlin and Clark came up with the broad leaf dominant narrow leaf drug.
I'm sorry.
Broad leaf drug type, narrow leaf drug type.
And from there, I mean, you know, you can classify it any other way.
But those BLD and LD.
Yeah.
BLD and LD is a great way to do it because it doesn't talk about the high type.
It just talks about the outward expression.
And maybe we should.
You know, we're planning on having our buddy Crybaby come on one of these shows.
And we're going to have like a terpene and an aroma episode because he can probably talk more intelligently about those kind of things than we can.
He's got a better language.
But really what this is, it's about communication and language.
So when we're talking about our eyes, it's really easy to be like, this is periwinkle or this is burgundy or this is orange or this is.
And you can be like, yes, that is.
We can both see it.
But when it comes to nose, right, other than sour, bitter.
Dead, salty.
There's only like five or six things that you actually taste.
Right. Yeah. And then the rest is impression.
So people will be like, oh, this smells like pencil shavings or a fresh car or it smells like, you know, something common like oranges.
So you don't really describe the smell.
You describe something else that it smells like.
Yeah. But but that classification, what the fuck does dream smell like?
Yeah, that's what is what is exotic smell like?
Yeah. You know, it used to be exotic in Europe.
Pepper. Yeah, that's true.
Yeah. Spices from the far east.
They were exotic. You know, you can have exotic exotic dragon fruit.
But if you live in Hawaii, it's probably not exotic.
At one point, you know, mangoes were probably exotic.
When is oh, yeah, yeah.
Have you had those? I know. I remember. Yeah.
Fresh vinyl, linoleum, you know, new car smell, all that.
And so there's a whole bunch of those things where it's like it's really difficult to have the language to talk about smells with people.
And I'm bad at it.
And, you know, and I always I always when trimmers and stuff like that, I always try to ask them away from the rest of the trimmers.
What do you smell when you smell this weed?
Yeah. And try to get a bunch of different people's feedback.
And then do I see things that people keep talking about?
Yeah. Is there a commonality that you can pull out of their impressions?
Because not everybody has the same impression.
Like, for instance, how would Europeans know roadkill?
Yeah. There is no roadkill in Europe.
No, no roadkill skunk. No roadkill skunk.
But that's what they mean when they talk about roadkill. Yeah.
Roadkill skunk. I should have been more specific.
But it's like you're not American.
There is no you've never smelled a dead skunk on the side of the road.
Yeah. Unless you came here.
Yeah. So, you know, there's an aspect where it's like I looked at all this stuff and you've got all these judges.
Motherfucker. You don't understand the concepts of monoterpenes, triterpenes, sesquiterpenes.
Shut the fuck up.
We don't you obviously don't understand the discussion.
So you can talk about terpenes and you can talk about individual terpenes.
But like the language around how those terpenes blend into different aromas.
Yeah. You know, like just like there's there's only so many primary colors.
Yeah. And, you know, terpenes, you can combine two different things and have them smell the exact same way.
No matter what terpenes you're using.
You know, like there's certain ways to make strawberry smells and there's other ways to make strawberry smells that are very similar.
The two people could smell as strawberry.
But the problem is not it's not a terpene conversation.
In that sense, the level of the level of education amongst people to discuss aromas and cannabis is very limited, even amongst the educated.
Yeah, it's a limited conversation.
And so I don't think it's advanced by and they're all pushing.
Oh, my God, we're breaking barriers.
And here's how we're judging stuff.
And we've got different colored stickers to put on jars, whether it's dessert or whether it's haze or whether it's exotic.
Yeah. And I just think that's a joke.
I think the categories are not related to reality.
Yeah. You know, and it's not dissing them.
You know, it's not dissing them.
I mean, if anything, it's probably dissing SC labs, maybe.
But it's just it's just another way to try to talk about language and talk about classifications.
But it's not accurate.
It's not helpful.
Most weed before cookies.
Nobody said nobody was like, oh, my God, all this weed smells like desserts.
Yeah. I this is like this is flan at my favorite Mexican restaurant to a T.
I just exhale flan.
No. Yeah.
I just exhale strawberry shortcake.
Yeah. Yeah.
You see, yeah.
Yeah. I think that'll be a good episode with crybaby to.
Yeah. I mean, I don't know.
We'll do it. Knowledgeable about that in the in the language than I am.
He's got he's got a much deeper base of talking about the language and the terpenes and stuff like that.
Yeah. Yeah.
So we're going to do Matt's phone's going to die.
I got some stuff I got to take care of and whatnot.
So we're going to do a little bit shorter.
Normally we try to take it to like an hour and a half, two hours every Friday.
We're going to cut it a little short today for a variety of reasons.
But we just kind of wanted to do no matter what.
We wanted to kind of bring people together on Friday night.
Bullshit about different subjects with cannabis.
Give people things to talk and think about.
And so, Matt, if you want to do any plugs.
Oh, yeah.
Go to Google.
Type in Breeders Syndicate, Patreon.
If you want to join the Patreon, we have our discord where we talk about all this stuff.
Incessantly because we're fucking nerds.
That's what we do. And it's what we love to do.
We got our Hawaiian life stuff dropping.
And of course, I did not take a picture of all the hybrids like I was going to and print out.
But there are some really awesome hybrids that CSI did with the Hawaiian life stuff.
And that's going to be dropping probably this weekend.
But expect to see some old rare shit in there, including the bomb threat bubble,
which hasn't been released in ages in any hybrids.
No, that's a good idea.
Yeah, that's a fucking wild one.
I've grown that one.
Myself. It's a fun it's a fun one.
Yeah.
But anyway, you know, and you can always reach out to us.
You can always give us you can always hit us up on Instagram or on discord and give us ideas.
I'd love for you guys to talk about this.
I'd love to learn more about whatever.
We're super open about that.
We just want to bullshit on a weekly basis about cannabis and keep people interested.
So thank you so much.
Right.
Tico dot com Hawaiian lights have to open pollination is up right now and tomorrow are the fights.
For those of you on the discord, we're going to get together for the fights.
It's going to be major.
Awesome one. So, yeah.
Cheers, everybody. Have a great night.
Oh.
