Ready, go!
Welcome to Breeder's Syndicate.
What's up, Gene?
What's up, guys?
Good evening.
Thanks for coming.
Hell yeah.
All right, Natsu, you kicked the show off.
I kicked the show off.
You're the kickoff guy.
I'm the kickoff guy.
Well, thank you for another Friday night of your time.
We got, besides the normal kick, we got our buddy, I guess we'll call him Mean Gene, on the screen.
He, him and I live in the same spot, pretty much.
We kind of both lived most of our adult lives in Mendo.
We've kind of seen all the various changes that have gone on.
We both have a bunch of similar breeding interests in various aspects.
And so we thought it would be cool to, we're going to do this a number of times, but we thought it would be cool to bring him on and talk a little bit about just some of the history stuff that went on in Mendo.
Some of the changing of the times and some of the stuff that we saw from long ago and some stuff that he's interested in and we are and so on and so forth.
So that's kind of where we're at.
Awesome. Yeah. So yeah, Gene, tell us, tell us about some of the stuff you saw growing up.
Like what are your first memories of of strain specifically?
I mean, like I can tell you, like, originally I remember hanging out, like with my buddy, Cy, when we were little and him like getting bud from his brother and being like, oh, this is, this is, this is good.
This is good. Good pot or a good weed. This is bud, you know, check it out. It's bud.
And that was before I was probably he was a year older than me.
That was probably starting when we were like, when I was probably like, I don't know, eight years old or something.
I was these dudes who smoked weed when he was like, basic, basically like a toddler almost where I can remember riding in the car and like standing on the backseat in a car, you know, allowed on the 162 on Covolo road when I don't know, I couldn't have been older than like three or four years old.
And he was like a year older and people were passing a joint around the car and he's passing the joint for the adults.
And he's like, hit taking a hit while he's passing it.
And I remember just being like, like, like it was just the weirdest, weirdest shit to me.
But he's just one of these dudes. He's one of those dudes who like, you'll be at the, I remember being a reggae on the river when we were, I don't know, or something.
And, and a dude walk up selling acid and him just being like, dude, I'll eat a fucking sheet right now, dude, just give me a sheet.
I'll eat it just so you can watch somebody do it, dude.
Like, and so he was like, his brother was like a dude who had, um, like always the cool shit, like the guns and fireworks and fucking Z28 and the fucking Sir Winn Vega 12s in the house and, you know, other shit going on, you know?
And like, uh, so that was like, kinda when I was little, that was kind of the exposure I remember of like early out and going places with him, like his cousins houses and shit where like shit you see in movies that you're like, you're like, damn, like people are, people are like living like this.
Like the kids are straight feral, the adults are like straight partying and it's a free for all.
Um, but like, uh, he's always been one of my coolest friends as far as like, just like a super, super cool dude.
That's always had my back and shit.
And, uh, so like going back then, I can remember back then, like, um, as far as like my peer group having weed, but as far as just weed, like weed was always kind of around.
It was just pot.
I remember being little and here and smelling people smoking weed.
And you like know that, that pot smell.
Like it's like some, someone burning sage or something or usnea or whatever.
You don't really know, but you smell it.
I go, they're smoking pot, you know?
And then, uh, getting a little bit older, um, to the point when actually having like an interest in what was going on and seeing like a high times magazines and shit like that.
A little bit before high times, probably a year before I saw the high times.
Um, we like started, there was, I used to live up at, um, uh, what's aerial one-on-one now, which was originally check lodge or grape wine station.
And, uh, I like, that was the first time I ever saw indoor was there's this big shed back still there.
If you want to one, you can see it's this big steel building, like just past the Creek.
And I remember going in there and there was like the big parabolic thousand watt lights and seeing these big thin leaf plants that were like, to me, they were huge, but I was like eight and a half or nine.
So they were probably like, no, six feet, six foot tall plants or something.
They seemed huge.
And I remember him being like up on a little platform kinda.
And then the light being all the way near up by the roof and being a few feet apart.
And that was like my first time seeing shit like that.
And then right around then was when my mom was given that, that, um, Manila envelope that was, that had seeds in it to grow indoor.
And it was like, you got to have indoor seeds to grow indoor, which turns out it's not true.
We didn't realize it until like the mid nineties when I tried growing a bunch of different other shit randomly, which most of it didn't really work out to be that bank, but at least you could, you could do it.
It was weed and all weed was weed.
It didn't matter if it was as killer as the Northern lights, but the Northern lights was killer.
And that's what was in that envelope.
And, uh, my mom popped a few of those.
She got one plant that was a female.
She saved some of the other ones.
We ended up planning those years later when I lived in Healdsburg down in Sonoma County.
That was like 90, 94, 93.
I want to say it was eighth grade for me.
So it had to be right around in that, in that time period.
And, um, so that was, but that was like the first strain I remember having where it like had a name was Northern lights.
And then when I was a kid, I didn't know about it, but my mom and her boyfriend, like, uh, who's like my dad, George, they had stuff that they got.
That was, um, they got this stuff from a friend out in George's neighborhood.
That was the, that was, uh, the Missouri.
And they really liked it.
And then I was talking to George the other day and he said that about 70 and about 76, he was in San Francisco at the beach.
And these dudes had brought back a couple pounds of seeds from Afghanistan.
And he said, that was the first time he ever saw Afghani weed, which was interesting to me because I thought more like here, the other stories I know are more like 84 Humboldt 78.
So he was like, no, it was 76.
And that was the first stuff.
And he goes, that was different than the Missouri that, and that I got from Charlie Brown.
And, um, so he was telling me that, and that was cool.
Cause it's all this time.
And I still, you still get new information, right?
Yeah.
So that was cool.
And then, uh, he was like, oh, I wish I would've, I wish I would've hung on to some of those.
Those were really killer.
And the Missouri was a much bigger plant with like the big long buds.
And, um, so, but that was, that was before my time, but that was like, you know, stuff that was, had I been aware of what was going on, that was stuff that was being grown, you know?
Yeah.
But yeah.
So then, so then really the Northern lights was like that first thing.
And then I remember that being around and, uh, the first clone I can remember besides that, which is probably around the same time, if not right at the same time, I remember Willow had just come out the movie Willow, right?
Yeah. Yeah.
So that was 89, I think.
And we, this lady's house up in Leggett.
And she had this weed that was purple, which was really cool because to me, like I'd always seen, you know, pot, like still what I call pot, like is like general weed.
It's not really not any distinction.
You're just talking about some pot has some pot, right?
She had some shit that was purple weed.
And the smell of that is still what I smell in the Urkel.
And, um, like when I do all the breeding with the cherry pie, I'll get these ones where like, when I label my bag so that I remember what kind of plant it was the throw like Leggett purple smell on it to like, so that I know like, this is that one that's kind of like that.
And that used to pop up the stuff I had called the big red too.
And if you really grew a lot of deep chunk, the sweeter ones, you'll get some that are really more that style.
And then I even got a lot of that smell when I smelled a flat that a dude had brought to the Emerald cup that was, um, I think it was green source gardens brought a flat of all these Afghanis that were recently imported.
And it grown them to see what was in them.
And some of them were good.
Some of them were bad.
Some of them smelled like cheesy.
They were all different smells, but a couple of them had that smell that I was like, that's like that, that Leggett purple smell, you know, and it's easy because it's an early smell, right?
Like, you know what it smelled like the first time you smelled someone cook broccoli.
Yeah.
The first time I smell nail polish remover or like, it's like a smell that really stuck with me.
So those are like the two oldest things.
And that clone resurfaced when I was living out in this neighborhood west of here.
And it was a lady who I was staying with and her neighbor, who's a guy who what I call perp came from, which is the purple stemmed stuff that wound up being real.
And they both were growing it.
And I saw it and I was like, oh, this is that shit.
And it turned out it had come from the same lady.
And, you know, for me, that was a really long time apart.
But for those adults, it was just a little while right now, you know, how it is four or five years.
So there was those.
And then, you know, around back in those days, I didn't see a whole lot of different stuff.
I remember something like some some brick weed that was supposed to be.
That was supposed to be Thai, and I don't know if what it was, but it was very strange, very dark, very compressed, not a lot to it.
But people who smoked it would get the giggles really fucking bad and get higher than a kite.
It was way different than other like the other like bricky weed that I've seen or like when I bought like Colombian brick for 20 for, you know, what, you know, 20 bucks a quarter pound or some shit.
Like a hundred pound in Costa Rica.
You like go through the whole thing and you get like a you get a little bit of bud and the rest is all a bunch of garbage.
And then, yeah, you get high for 15 minutes.
You fall asleep, you wake up with a headache like this wasn't like that.
So I was like, it could have been maybe it was Thai weed.
I don't know, like someone had had put away or something.
But that's so that's like going up, you know, not a lot of different variety that I can really remember all the way until.
And in that era, old school smokers remember it was like somebody passed you a joint.
And if you're like if you're like a real weed head and you really know your shit, you're not like, is this the perps?
Is this sour diesel?
You're like, is it bud?
And they're like, yeah, it's bud.
And you're like, all right.
And then he's, you know, if they're like, oh, it's shake.
You're like, oh, no, I don't want to smoke that.
So back then, we didn't get attached to stuff very much.
It was either like this shit's really killer or it's not that killer.
And then around I guess it was around 94.
I started hanging out.
I had been living in Healdsburg for like a year and it sucked.
I went to eighth grade down there and most people were square or the people who weren't square were skaters.
And they were pretty, pretty soon to turn into tweakers once they hit high school later.
Yeah.
And and then like the Mexican dudes were really cool to me and the skaters were really cool to me.
But the squares were kind of like this dude's like you kind of tell it's like more of a stoner.
Guy. Right.
So it was kind of weird going to a new school because it was real.
There was more of that separation.
I live in a real small town when I was going to school before that.
And there's not enough kids for there to be any separation because you can't have a whole group of one thing or there's just three guys or whatever.
Right. So basically, I was down there and then I came back up north and some of my buddies had actually growing in the bushes and shit.
And they were they were like carrying buckets to go to to water and stuff like my buddies on Instagram there.
Oh, G Foundation Farms and and and damn, what's what's this?
What's this thing? It's ancient, ancient future pharmacy.
Yeah. And so and then those guys and our other our other friend, Nick Rock, was in that neighborhood.
And there was like a few my buddy, Little Willie.
And and there was like a few people who were out there and everybody was kind of into.
And I went back there and started hanging out and they were all talking about the flavors and they had like they had like a harvest under their belt.
And they're talking about, oh, we have this one.
This is all these are the buds from over there.
This is the one from over there.
And they had named all the plants by the location.
Like this is this one from the top of the pond or this was this chunky one or whatever, you know, and then like whoever the seeds were from.
So there was like chunky marks from that was like from the from from Mark, who was chunky or the plant was chunky.
And I never really got it.
And then there was tall marks which came from the taller mark, you know, the other guy who was taller.
And so they had all these different shit and they would be like, oh, and all these ones are tasty and those ones aren't.
And I was like, damn, OK, shit.
I didn't really know anything about that with weed like flavors and exactly what they were.
I just knew like I get high and I would smoke and they'd look at me and they'd be like, they'd be like, you know, why do you make that face when you when you I get like the bitter weed face.
Right. Maybe like why you don't like the smoke.
And I'd be like, no, I mean, you know, if you kind of cough out smoke and shit, it's all harsh and all that.
Yeah. And then I wound up having a little bit of the northern lights and they smoked it and they're all that's tasty.
And I was like, oh, this is tasty.
OK, shit. I've just been like choking on it.
You know, attention to how they were smoking, hitting it a little lighter, taking it to the deep inhale, blowing out the smoke before you cough.
Like the basic things, you know, you're more seasoned smoker.
But I was a kid, you know, and so then that was when I started to then see all the variety.
And when we would go to school, you know, we'd smoke at lunch and people would bring the stuff from their parents and we find out what they had in Bell Springs, what they had in Spirock.
What's what this girl's dad grew or what this girl's dad got from from, you know, Bill Graham presents people, give it, hooking them up weed because they were it was the people who were into that, you know, all the dead shit.
And so then like then I started to see more of the variety.
And in that time period around then, a little later was when I saw like the effects, which is what, you know, like I think cross the Mendo P with with the effects to make purple effects, which became really popular and is in some of the popular things now.
Stuff that we called garlic bud that I don't know that it was garlic bud as far as the strain, but it was really that crazy, gnarly.
It's like even more gnarly than deep chunk where the the bracts grow, like from the center of the bud all the way out, like they're really long and narrow and caked with resin and almost inside with the purple stripes and the crazy funk.
And around then, too, is when I first saw like Big Blue.
And then, you know, going into the later 90s, we saw monkey balls, which people call deep chunk.
And, you know, then right around then was when you start to get the clone wave.
And that was when we got things like sweat, train wreck, Mr. Nice Guy, Green Queen.
Did you ever see Snerville up there?
I never saw Snerville. I've heard of it, but we did never see Snow Bud.
We did see what was in the same old time period.
I mean, a little later was Blue Dream, Snow Cap.
There was one that was really popular and humble called the Mist, which was supposedly like a Matanuska Mist thing or something.
And people really loved it.
Who loved it?
Now people say it's minty. It doesn't have much, but it was a really beautiful plant.
It got these really nice buds that were kind of shaped like this and they were just chunky and covered in resin.
And I crossed that with a big blue and I got a couple of great plants out of that that were really nice.
But it's because they kind of lean to the blue side on flavor.
It wasn't the most outstanding ship.
It was really popular and humble for people to crop that.
Mr. Nice, Trainwreck, Green Queen.
Did you see that? Did you used to see that Blueberry Skunk?
Remember Saso had that?
And guys like Tony Mendo and Craig and all those dudes that way back when were kind of working with him.
Did you ever see any of that Blueberry Skunk that he ran?
I'm not sure, man. We had one up here that my buddy called Super Skunk.
And it was not Super Skunk. He said it's Blueberry Northern Lights.
And it was very resonant. And to me, it smells almost like Penny Royal or like a Hinnisperiment or something.
It's more in that realm of like, I don't want to say herby, but it's that kind of a thing where it's like that really cuts through.
You know how peppermint is or Penny Royal.
If you know what Penny Royal is, it's like that really like sharp herbal funk.
And that one was cool. And I mean, I don't know if that would have been the same thing.
I mean, he called it Super Skunk. He knew it was Blueberry Northern Lights.
So maybe that was kind of a similar thing. I don't know.
I don't think I don't think that Blueberry Skunk was related to anything we call blueberry today, you know, in terms of what became famous and associated with, you know, but yeah.
But it was kind of like that, I would say, like the late 90s there was kind of like like he was saying, like you maybe the late 90s, early 2000s was really when like the name Strain Game really began.
Because like what he was saying, I remember stuff where most of the time weed was talked about, like where it was from.
Yeah.
Yeah. I mean, like a lot of people called Sam. That's don't leave that because that whole era when I talked about all those clones at the same time, everybody was growing Salmon Creek Big Butt.
So that was a popular. What did that what was the Terps like on that one?
Me playing. Some people said it was very skunky and loud. Yeah. To me, it was. It tasted to me really soapy and good. And I thought it was really good weed. And the plant unreal. I watched those same buddies of mine.
OG Foundation and Ancient Future. I watched them put in yellow starts like a foot and a half tall. Yeah. On like by night and average like five pounds off that shit. You know, yeah, it was huge. And that was in rows where they weren't even spaced.
They could have just kept going and going, but they were just, you know, gave them whatever four feet of space and they were five five pound Mohawks of buds. You know, it wasn't the dude who went missing up here that they called Rasta man.
And he used to grow these plants and my buddy worked for him, who now is a cowboy buds, I believe, cow, not cowboy, but cowboy chronic. And he used to work for him. And so they had pictures on their fridge that were like photocopied pictures.
And I remember looking and being like, why, what are what's in this? Is there something in this picture I don't see? And they were like, yeah, it's weed. And I'm like, where's the weed? I only see the trees, you know? Yeah. And they that's all weed. Like, all that is.
And also it's just a golden field with big old Madrone trees growing in the middle of it. And that's the weed. And they were like, that's the weed. And I was like, what is this guy pole? And I'm sure he was pulling 15, 18, 22 pounds or something off of those because he it was a strange. He was one of the first people who really had it and circulated it in Salmon Creek.
And it was yeah, it was wild, dude. But but that was a big one. But that but that's all to say that at a certain point, you didn't have to call a big bud. You could just say, hey, do you have do you know, do you have Salmon Creek packs like.
Yeah.
And I don't know how many of the first the first Emerald Cups were there, but it was kind of like a gathering place north of Laytonville, you know, and right down the river is like right across the border from Mendo.
And it's like basically like as soon as you cross into Humboldt from Mendocino County, you're basically at you're basically at the festival. And that's kind of where everyone would gather in in the middle of summer and see a bunch of reggae. It was kind of like one of the few things that would like happen up there, you know.
And when I was I'm a little older than than Jean, I came out to see the dead in the in the 90s. And then obviously there's a connection between the bay and Humboldt Mendo. And so I got dragged up there.
And I have in 90, I think it was 94, 95 was the first time I came to Mendo. And I went to we went to reggae on the river and Humboldt. And there's like two things that will stand out for me forever from being from the Midwest and coming from a police state.
One was a guy walking up and down and selling buds and the buds were like in a five gallon paint bucket with the cola sticking out the top. And just like the ability for someone to like walk around openly and and show weed.
Yeah, it was so sketch where I came from was like crazy. And then if people have never been there, there's like a like the river runs through it right there. And you can kind of like look up and there's like cliffs and where the cliffs are. That's where the one on one is, you know, and so they'd have a bunch of certain parts of it at least.
And so they'd have a bunch of cops up there directing traffic and all that. And I had friends that were like in the know. So we got like, you know, riverfront camping, which is kind of nice. Right. And I'm pulling tubes. You know, I'm pulling it, I'm pulling a tube and I look up and there's a cop looking at me. Right, which you like where I'm from is like an immediate bust. Yeah. And he just waved and let me go on about my business.
Yeah.
Yeah, it is.
It wasn't like it was accepted. People had a lot of myths. People would come here and think that it was like leak weed was legal and everybody liked it and everyone got along and this and that. And it was it was still really underground. It was still cat and mouse with the cops.
with the cops. The era that that Gene is talking about when his friends were starting to grow weed,
nobody grew weed real like I don't want to say nobody, but for the most part you grew weed in
the woods. You grew weed in the manzanitas. You didn't grow weed like right out your back door.
You know you put some distance most people. Most people would try to put some distance between
their house and where they had their patch because they didn't want to get raided you know.
Like he was saying carrying buckets of water, figuring out how to run water
from point A to point B even to get your plants fed. Back then I don't know what prices he was
getting but weed was like 4,500 or 5,000 or more a pound. So you got away with 20-25 pounds of
shade grown manzanita weed and you had a phenomenal year. The scale of everything was different in the
sense that like you didn't have to grow like some enormous thing like you know you didn't have to
grow hundreds of pounds to make a living. You know if you got away with 20 or 30 you were set
you know. And then the trim scene and all that other stuff really wasn't that big of a deal. So
everyone was kind of just learning and like the like like train wrecks, Salmon Creek, Big Bud,
the effects like he mentioned. There was some name things but there was still a lot. I don't
want to say until the purple craze when when people started demanding uniform pounds because
like with outdoor at least from my experience up here like people would grow the same strains but
they would mix pounds and mix phenos. Yeah. Right so you'd get three, four, five phenos in a pound
a lot of the time you know and that was perfectly acceptable. Yeah. To do that like so you'd have
you'd have weed from the instead of the weed having a name it would be like from whatever
town or area like oh this is some White Thorn. This is some Panther Gap. This is from my buddies
out on Spirock you know and you know he mentioned that too Spirock and Spirock and Bell Springs are
pretty famous weed growing communities mostly because they're mountainous and they're way out
in the middle of fucking nowhere and so they're remote they're hard to get to. So cannabis really
wasn't like like like permitted out here. It was more like a kind of a cat and mouse game and there
was a few enough people that you could get away with it you know if you were careful but everyone
we know got camped sometimes. I mean there used to be an old joke that you would like you would
plant three gardens and one was for you and one was the cops and one was for the thieves
and you and you hope that one of them came through in a way you know because you could go like same
thing you could you could go you know on on you know Harvest Moon or whatever when full moons
during fall you know you could get people out there that could go with some contractor bags
and they could steal 10 or 15 or 20 pounds and back then that was that was a ton of money.
Yeah. You could go and check on your crop and it's gone. The whole thing is gone. Trauma.
You know yeah and that's when the when the clones started taking off and it was like everybody wanted
to grow train wreck. It wasn't because oh if I have train wreck I'm gonna get a higher price or people
will want my weed faster. You could sell any weed you had it just had to be dried right and it had
to be mature and it had to be trimmed good you know. Yeah. And it was only the only reason people
were growing clones then was reliability. So if you would grow train wreck you knew you were going
to get a good crop with a lot of weed and you liked how it how it was to cut down and how it was to
trim and then you know it was reliable like you know you're going to get something good out of
this so you grow the clone and and then also somebody tries this clone it doesn't work well
for them and their garden or the way they grow and they try this other clone and it works really good
for them. So they're like okay so then that's why people got stuck with the clones. The first clone
that carried a premium in this area was Urkel and Urkel was the one that totally shot everything to
shit as far as the the um the diversity because before that somebody was like oh I like this clone
and somebody was like oh I like that clone and Urkel came and it was like well that's cool but
this Urkel you can sell right now for like 48 a pound half wet. So you're selling 12 ounce pounds
and you're like it might not be as good if you don't know how to grow it yet and you think it's
done it's seven weeks and it's really not at all. But it didn't matter as long as you could get it
to go at first it didn't even really matter if it went purple but it after just a little couple
runs worth of time going by if you could get it to get dark people would show up and they'd and
you'd be like it's still wet and they'd be like well let me see it and you'd be like well and
they'd be no just take that put it in the bag they're like we'll take it down south and we'll
dry it in our bedroom dude and we don't that it's not going to be a pound when it gets done because
people were so hungry for it and uh that's super accurate because before Urkel before the purple
wave and probably 03-04-05 was kind of that was kind of that wave he's right every good type of
weed sold if it was grown decently well and it was dried it was dried well and it was trimmed well
people would just there wasn't a name strain game people weren't coming up here with like okay you
need to buy x amount of peas and it could be these four strains it was like go get some good
weed and bring it back you know and it's seedless and it's trimmed and the day it's ready you know
it's it's all a matter of if somebody of scheduling it had nothing to do with whether or not you could
find a buyer you have the right product or any of that stuff it was like there's weed okay it's gone
and then everything would be you know back then it was there was only one big wave of harvest
the outdoor not the debt and so it wasn't this constant thing of there always being weed so it
would be like there would be a bunch of weed never a flood and then it would be all drought for most
of the year and I remember being like okay it's August or July or September and like like for
reggae on the river we used to save our best uh you know OG foundation got me doing that because
he'd be like oh this is my reggae stash I'd be like oh shit I better save a reggae stash too so
you'd have like some buds that you came across through the year that were like the best weed
you'd be like oh I'm gonna take two grams of this and set it aside or I'm gonna take five grams of
this and set it aside and then if you could show up at reggae on the river the first weekend in
August and have a sack of weed like this it was just like epic because people were like
fuck how do you have that you know some people would still have weed and people who were either
had the good fortune to have a ton of weed or who like had certain um either connections or
lack of connections where they just wound up with weed in August like you would have weed but it was
a big deal in the summer months to have weed back then yeah and this is this is before cell phones
too it's before the internet or any kind of forums so for a bunch of people in Humboldt so in southern
Humboldt and Mendo like reggae on the river was not only like a uh it was two days back then but
it wasn't just like a big weekend of fun you could actually meet someone where like they wanted weed
right where like everyone you knew grew weed for the most part if you were in those little circles
and so a lot of people made a bunch of connections to other parts of the state or wherever wherever
you know because they would bump into people and like like he was just saying like you know they'd
smoke some weed and they were like oh my god this is amazing can you get me more of this
let me give you my number and you can call me after this event and like let me try to come up
and get a few pounds let me try to get this let me try to get that because it was like
there was so much demand there was a little bit of indoor going on for sure but not nothing in
comparison to demand and when outdoor came in i wouldn't even say it was a flood there was just
more weed yeah it would never flood it would never it's just and then it was unavailable
and that was like the two to get it if you had good weed for years and years if you had good
weed you could probably sell it within three to five days of it hitting the bag without too much
effort and it didn't really matter what it was it mattered if it was nice or not but it but the
name game the specifics of it like i said you could get you could sell somebody 10 pounds it
was a mix of eight different phenos and if it was good it would go fine yeah you know
and it was mature and it was it had to be it had to be it had to have some but
but the names and the consistence all the stuff they look for now no that that didn't really
matter um and so as a result of that there was like a bunch of diversity because there was a lot
of hill people that had their random strains that they'd grown for a long time or their friends had
given them you know not everybody bred but uh you know jean and i have talked about this before
kind of the one of the most common ways people would breed because they grew from seed every year
is every two or three or four years they'd be like oh i should make some fresh seed
and they'd take all their sexed males that they vegged out in pots before they planted in their
holes and they'd put those sexed males like on some other part of the hill away downwind you know
and then they'd have their females growing in their patch and a lot of times they would go and
collect male collect male pollen and then bring it back and like brush it on their favorite females
bottom branches from that year and mark them and then you know when they harvested you know
they'd get x amount of hundreds or you know whatever seeds and that was their next two three
years worth of supply until they were like oh these are getting kind of old i'm running a little low
i should do that again this year which if you do the math you realize that those those things that
are the modern weed like the most modern weed like it's the new it's cookies or it's whatever
it is you go yeah it's probably only really in a lot of cases was only a handful of generations
displaced from origin you know like a lot of afghanis they're not actually 30 generations
after afghanistan a lot of them might only be three or four generations later because someone's
like oh shit my seed's seven years old you're like well the ship showed up in 81 it showed up in 85
so then you go well when i was seeing it it was 94 95 96 like shit somebody only made seed twice
since it showed up from afghanistan or three or four times like there wasn't even that much
improvement which uh was what i was what i was going to say too about like all the the weed back
then you go oh it didn't have to be special it was like it didn't have to be special but if you saw
the weed now that was in those bags that only had to be dried good and only had to be mature and
seedless you'd look at it and you'd go what is this one yeah what is that what is it like the
weed was undeveloped in in a genetic sense or it was unrefined in a breeding sense it was like no
shit was balm and and we actually what we have now that's our very best stuff is kind of the
remnants of what was then kind of just normal weed you know like because a lot of this stuff that was
uh in the hills in california was like really fucking good and everything that amsterdam got
was just them going oh whoa they have crazy shit in oakland they have crazy shit in humble
they have crazy shit in santa cruz and then all that stuff they took it over there and then didn't
even really have experience with it and and tried to do some stuff and some people hit and some
people missed and then people wound up going oh this modern weed it had so high in thc it's so
heavy yielding and you're like no the shit that i saw that was bred twice after afghanistan was
already like what people now look at and go oh it's holy shit it's space weed it's like yeah
that was what that was what you know like that was what came over there's not genetics don't work in
a way where traits just miraculously appear although they do it's very rare and a lot of
that really good shit it was it was already it was already there and what we were seeing at reggae on
the river and somebody's sack from santa cruz that showed up to sell their pound or whatever
you know like stuff was stuff was crazy i think probably when it showed up you know and i i would
add to that that uh i was smiling when he said that because one of the one of you know when you
apply capitalism to all this stuff right a lot of the modern breeding is when you know you get some
stuff and it's amazing and you're like okay well i spent a lot of time and a lot of effort and this
is a result of me being really smart when we all know it's like it's a lot of accidents and you're
already starting with good working material to begin with you know um a lot yeah i mean it's
whole traits out of thin air you can like if you want way more resin there is ways to go okay i'm
going to take a plant that gets way more trichomes per square centimeter and i'm going to take this
one that gets huge heads but it doesn't have very many combine them and wind up with the best of both
worlds and have something that has way more resin with way bigger heads and your numbers shoot way
up but you still have to have those two traits have to be there and separately they were still
pretty fucking good because you already had one with a whole shitload of resin but the heads
weren't huge and you had one with huge fucking heads so both of them were already pretty good
fucking weed right so like and in a lot of cases when we find something that's like that you're
really just finding that plant that already had the combination in the first place and you you
might think you made it through combination but really if you would have grown 200 girls of one
side you'd go oh it was already in there and then i thought i made it and then you didn't fucking
make it you just found it you know so it's like really with all that it's really like um you're
really kind of more discovering than you are creating you're trying to find some good shit
it's like you're not you're not making the gold you're just fucking digging through some shit to
pull out some nuggets you know yeah that's for sure and i think to some degree that's why the 90s
kind of remains like a lot of the backbone of modern breeding was because of all that diversity
because it was before the name game book because you know like the last 10 years of breeding
not everyone there's obviously outliers and people that do different stuff but like
in most modern breeding it's like take all the most popular things i can find and blend them
together and hopefully i get a little version that people have some clout with right where
you know weed in the 90s was back to be vastly different because there wasn't pressure on it
for it to be the same it just had to be good it just had to be good and the other thing is that
it didn't even have to be pretty it just had to be good and by good it's like if i got you high
your wife smoked dude yeah i don't know but back in the day people who bought weed
when they showed up they smoked the shit can you imagine
you you could not sell weed without them smoking a few joints with you and making sure it burned
right making sure it wasn't harsh making sure their customers weren't going to be pissed off
so a lot of times you could go at some weed and they could be like oh this is suspect i don't
know about this weed and you're like well let's roll some joints and hang out for a second and
then if it was good weed they i mean in modern times it's like name look does it have any larv
does it have nose what's your price point okay most modern dealers and like fucking
shitty buyers have you guys had to hang out with for like two hours watching a movie just to do a
transaction that shit sucks i mean it depends you know it's it's like it it uh you know there was a
whole industry of it up here there was a lot of people that didn't like to do that and so the
people that were even the people that were willing to go to the bay right like i remember um you know
going out spy rock and you could go talk to people up there um that like you know that they had
indoor they had big underground indoors and stuff like that you could get weed for like 36
which was dirt cheap and i used to tell them that i would like take it to the bay and i would get
way more for it and they'd be like but you have to do that if you come to my driveway and we and i
can be at my house and you give me this i'm happy yeah that's like it's 23 as a 22 year old 23 year
old kid i was like that's so dumb you know and i'd go to the city and i'd make my margin and i
party and have a great time and then i hit my 30s or 40s or whatever and i'm like oh man that
makes perfect sense if you can just come to my door and be fair and then go away i'm cool because
like i got dinner to cook and i got some kids to take care of and i don't want to go all the way
down to the fucking day you know and then the fair away and it's still 50 and 8 for most people you
know yeah it's still three prices when when when pounds were about to hit basically six grand
wholesale and the it was like whoa eights are worth fucking 50 and 60 dollars that's fucking
crazy but at least pounds are worth six grand to the farmer and now you still pay now people are
selling hundred dollar eights yeah and people i don't know you know this shit's really not worth
any money you know it's crazy that's where i have friends that joke with me right now that they can
go into a dispensary and they can go buy a 600 ounce that's or they could go buy a pound that's
probably better for cheaper oh yeah in this market yeah i saw 600 an ounce weed and it was
fucking hilarious yeah i was like i mean i understand maybe that there could be something
that would be worth that if it was like really hard to grow and it fucking took 24 weeks and
you've never tried anything like this but it's like it's just some bud that people used to sell
for really cheap and it's not even as good of a version and it's like selling for 600 an ounce
and you're like shit okay i mean the sad part is is that you would think with legalization typically
it makes quality go up and price go down because you take the risk out of the equation you know
and there's there's a risk pricing in there but so far with cannabis the way we've structured
california it's kind of done the opposite weed in general is way worse than the 215 era and it's
definitely more expensive yeah it'd be different if you were producing a molecule right like you're
producing a molecule so like at scale it doesn't really matter you get rid of all the barriers and
obstacles and shit and then all of a sudden you're going to be like dude we're producing this
molecule like fucking crazy and it's it's not illegal anymore so yeah we dropped the price
to producing it and then but with weed it's like weed doesn't scale very well i mean we
we've done so hard to scale that even when you go from seeing somebody who grows like like the best
weed that i've ever seen almost every time comes from people who have like less than like a dozen
lights if they're going indoor and yeah the one light is we used to have we used to have a bunch
of friend mutual friends that would you know they would work for older cats and they would run these
50 and 100 lighters right but they would come get their head stash off me because i had a 10 lighter
and we used to joke that like you just couldn't get off that 100 lot you couldn't get as good
a weed you couldn't give it as much attention you couldn't whatever it was it was just like the
little minor fine that's kind of what happened is like people used to be able to make a really
good living off 20 30 40 100 a couple hundred pounds and then you could treat that stuff right
you could dry it right you could cure it right you you weren't overwhelmed you could have just a few
people helping you and you could do the little things that kept it nice and now they're like
how do i grow these 10 licenses i have and i've got 2 000 pounds coming down and costs are through
the roof and i have to do osha and all this other shit and what suffers is the week you know they
start looking around at like what ways they can cut corners and you know it's they're not evil
necessarily by any means they're just trying to survive because it's all rough and or or they just
don't they've grown 100 or 200 pounds their whole career and that's been happy for them and then
they get asked to grow 2 000 pounds and they just don't know how to scale up you know what
because their system that they had for them when it was smaller worked amazing
but their system didn't scale so you try to scale it up
you you like oh i'm just going to double the recipe that doesn't really work like that you
can't just double recipes you know you like you sometimes you have to do it in batches so if you
can have somebody and say okay you're gonna do you're gonna do like this many runs and maybe
you're gonna get more runs in or something then people can keep it exactly the same and then
everybody has a ceiling so some people can scale a lot better than others because of the the way
that they do things like as simple as i grow i probably could have scaled pretty well because i
don't do anything very special and that's part of why i'm able to get weed that i really like because
i just kind of let it do its thing so it's mostly the soil and then i'd really try to make sure to
really like pay a lot of attention to harvesting and and drying it and uh so like it's it's doable
but it's still i could still never do enough to be a big brand you know i just couldn't do it let's
let's let's be clear too right so um i mean i came out here when i was in my early 20s so i didn't
grow up here like he did but my experience is most weed growers back then were back to the landers
hippies uh people that decided to grow weed because logging ended and they needed a a way to
to support their family you know um these aren't people that are like amazing at logistics
you know these aren't like like sergeants that are like okay you three do this and this is the
efficient way to do that and this and that and everything else they just figured out some kind of
way that worked for them it's at a small or medium scale and then you try to like commercialize
that and all of a sudden their experience is only so good at that part because now it becomes
logistics now it becomes like you know like now you're a conductor now you're trying to like move
the orchestra around and like you're used to kind of just winging it you know and even when stuff
becomes really super competitive in that kind of a that kind of a thing a lot of the people it's
like back when weed was rare if you got weed and it didn't suck and it was good genetics you were
like wow this is really good weed but then when things get more and more competitive a lot of the
people too who you're like oh they have killer weed and like it's it's like you're like well but
is it like is it really that killer when it has to go up against people who are so knowledgeable
and are going okay well you know this you got to have this particular watering schedule and this
dry back and all these different like very specific parameters and then it's like it's like
yeah their weed was really good but it's not it's still not competitive and i'm not saying that's
everybody but that's a whole section of people too where all of a sudden now when there's a huge flood
you're like well this weed is just not like there's always been people who who would would be
like oh dude i have this weed and i'd look at it and i'd be like oh cool it's nice you know but at
the same time i'm like it's not competitive though you know and it's something that i can't
i like can't bring myself to tell people that i just am like yeah it's it's good you know but like
you you you kind of you just kind of look at the reality and you go fuck have you seen what people
are doing like people's shit is great i feel it was and we some of us have always been able to do
it like like i was saying like people i know ladies who had one light or two lights and every time
they would have weed you just be like holy shit and to this day people doing all the most
scientific tricks they can't they can't do any better than these ladies with their two lighters
or their four lighters or their one lighter still the best weed ever but and that was never everybody
and there was a point when if you had weed you were like yeah and this is the funny thing like
with with especially with old school growers and growers in general everybody always thinks their
weed is the best like i've never met i've only met probably a couple people who can look at
weed objectively and go oh it's good because of this but i missed here and i missed there and
this would have been a little better like this and and to really be objective and like and and and
logically look at stuff it's generally like this is mine and it's the best you know yeah and so
that's really i think been something too that is a big barrier for people to get past um to be able
to look at stuff and go well fuck maybe i need to maybe i need to figure out i need to ask people
more questions i need to be able to look at this and be able to and be able to like tell the
difference between what this one is and what that one is and how do i make mine look like that one
because mine looks like this one and that's like you know that's an important part of really doing
any kind of process to really break it down it's like you go to a restaurant and they're not really
doing very good business and you're like dude people want food especially like here you know
and i've seen like all these places like pizza places or whatever it is and they're like i don't
know you know we make great pizza nobody's buying it and i'm like guess what people fucking buy great
pizza like you don't have to twist people's arm to buy a fucking pizza they want the pizza
they just don't want your pizza and the only way to make your pizza be the pizza people want is to
like ask somebody like dude how do you can i maybe like get the starter for the dough and then like
how do you do your dough and what temperature is your oven and what is in your sauce can i get the
recipe for your sauce and you know like those little things and what's i made it like this
what happened what went wrong and then all of a sudden like in this area and not so knows this if
you had good fucking pizza in where i live you would stay in business for fucking ever and you
would make it right oh yeah but there's been every pizza place has come and gone and some of them are
good here and there and like it's like okay you go there and you go oh this is great and it's
inconsistent and this is just an analogy to what's up with weed too you know like you really have to
fucking um constantly try to figure out what it is now if you are one of the people who just
happen to fucking make some shit and it came out really good and everybody loves it then fucking
go with it if the recipe works it works but if it's not working you got to know when to look at
it and be like fuck what what do i need to do you like you you have you ever watched like what's
that bar rescue or those shows you know what i mean like the gordon ramsey he comes in he's like
no dude we're gonna make a fucking bruschetta and it's gonna be bread and you're gonna put tomatoes
on it and balsamic vinegar and some fucking basil you guys are making this fucking crazy concoction
and nobody likes it and you look at it fucking simple just stop doing all this weird shit and
it's the same with with weed and the weed market you know it's just it's it's a weird it's a weird
thing and then there's so much that is done on that level and so little that's done on the really
crazy level that you know it's it's like i'm convinced if you're really still on that level
that people still want your weed but if you're just a little bit below it it's like what the
fuck what are you gonna do and then networking too is tough yeah there's there's an aspect where
people kind of went from like trying to grow the best weed they possibly could uh which never
happened exclusively there was plenty but you know there's a lot of people that like you know now
they just try to grow like decent commercial you know they're trying to grow decent commercial at
scale and like and the decent commercial is rough you know and so like the name strain game part of
the reason why like you know the purple craze happened and then right after that the kush and
the sour and and and cookie and all that um part of the reason why that exploded so much in our area
was because people wanted to just give the broker what they wanted like if the broker was like all
58 of these look good i'll take them all you know and then they look at this other guy's stuff
and he's got some nice stuff and they end up taking 10 when he leaves the guy that had the
variety looks at the dude that got cleared out and was like can i get that from what is that i want
to get the thing that the dude is going to come and clear me out whatever that is i want it yeah
you know and i'll try to figure out a way to that's the sourdough starter for your crust you know
yeah that's like that one that's the fucking sauce right there you know then that's what what's
funny about urkel is that there was a time in which there was an endless demand for indoor urkel
from our area right and basically like every big grower i knew ran indoors of urkel and then when
the purple craze ended and it went on to sour and kush and these other things fast forward 10 years
and there was like six dudes that held on to urkel when we both knew dozens and dozens of
people everyone had it that was reg that was what if you had weed like probably urkel yeah or a very
type of weed you know there was blue dragon and purple nepal and grape ape and but it was like
purple with the sweet fruit loopy you know that's also that i should we should mention too it's also
that kind of thing where like that craze was one of the first times where people wanted to give
their own name to something whether it was different or not or whether it was just a slight
variation or a bag seed of whatever there had to be gdp and great and great bape and purple urkel
and purple dragon and you know and platinum purple and you know and it was like this thing where it
was like people that was like the start of people wanting to differentiate their little thing
didn't matter because it's very different yeah because the name had worked you're like well
fuck people you say it's purple urkel like everybody everybody wants it you know the names
were really working and it was the same like in la if you had some weed that was really good you
just call it such and such kush or then to combine the two when the purple craze ended
people were like oh people don't want this blackberry anymore i should call it blackberry kush
well because the kush name was this is the this is the purple kush this is the blackberry kush
it's just like that kush you want but darker blackberry is actually a strain not so
different than blackberry and they hold what there was also a purple flow cut up here that
finished in early september that was originally purple flow and this stuff must have been i don't
know like five percent thc or something you couldn't get high off it it smelled really nice
and sweet it smelled really similar to what the blackberry clone was but it turned way darker and
it was done so early and fast and it got tons of these huge buds everywhere and everybody started
calling that blackberry kush and online i've seen a lot of people call that one blackberry and i'm
like no that was the purple flow it was purple flow for like maybe a year or two and then all
of a sudden everybody went it kind of smells like that blackberry clone and the blackberry wasn't
very stony but it wasn't as no stone as this fucking flow clone this flow clone
nothing it was like you could not high off this shit and uh and then after a while then that
became the blackberry clone and i would ask people like so the one that didn't get you high at all
this blackberry i'm like when did it finish because the other one was like early october
it was still very fast and would want to auto flower but this one had thin leaves and it was
very purple way more purple where the other one was very frosty and pretty almost like a bubba
but with a little bigger features and it tasted really good it didn't get you that high but people
didn't give a shit because you smoked something else to get stoned but it tasted so good and then
the other one came in and it got really big for like two seasons here and everyone grew it and
then all of a sudden everybody was like you know what i'm literally like not getting any fucking
effects and there's an actual that he mentioned it before but there's an aspect we should probably
talk about when when the name game happened in the beginning of any of these name games that occur
if it has the name and it's and it's similar or the right cut it just all goes
like if you know it just went right and then as more and more people get it the quality has to be
nicer and so sometimes people would have a hard time getting like purples to turn purple in the
middle of summer because their rooms would be too hot and it wasn't like you know people didn't
have great like environmental controls back then or something like that and then you'd get some
like green purple that was like harder to sell and so like that's kind of like what happens when like
when a market starts to get saturated with a particular strain is like the best versions of
it still go but it it loses that like if it's it it goes because like early on if you had kush or
you had sour you had purple or whatever and you had it it went and then as more and more people
got it quality became more important and you actually had to have like really nice version of
it for it to go as easily yeah you know um but you know that's kind of like that's there's an aspect
to it where it's you know he's right in the sense where you know the name game happens and stuff
gets stuff gets all mixed up but it really is like you know if you've been around for a long
time you can see a lot of similarities in today's weed mash together that's really old weed you know
like we really actually haven't gone all that that far away from things i will agree with that we've
mashed it up in various different ways and we've added all kinds of different names which just kind
of obscures but we really haven't we really haven't like people think now weeds better than
it's ever been and that's kind of probably just patting yourself on the back yeah you know weed's
been really good for a long time it just mattered whether or not you had access to really good weed
more people have access now than before but i don't know that weed's any better than it is before
you know in fact it might have been better 20 years ago on average you know on average i would
probably have to agree with what we have now yeah you know and then there's another thing too when it
comes to names and stuff like that where it's like obviously we're in like the the marketing era
everything has to be candy or cake or or desserts or sugar or like evoke some kind of image um but
you know back then it was like you know he mentioned it before but like you could get some
weed that like gave you like brow sweat and you'd call it the sweat i'm not even saying that's it
but that's like how a lot of names came about nobody would name nobody would name anything
sweat today nobody would name anything dog shit nobody name would name anything like there's a
million names that would that would never work you know um i mean the mendo p that i found it you know
i didn't know exactly what it was so i just called it it was purple from mendo
so it became mendo purple and at one point i was talking to my buddy who showed me some
weed that was really bomb and it was like it was kind of smelled to me like a mix between
like what i call the legate perp smell and the and like the the purple urkel smell in a sense
and my buddy was like yeah i got this from this guy on bell springs he's he's the guy who because
at one point people were saying oh urkel is just a plant from the mendo from the mendo perps right
and i'd never seen the perps and so uh my buddy showed me the buds and i was like damn this is
bomb and it was some kind of balm afghani it was super good shit and this guy was like yeah i'm the
i'm the guy who um that that the mendo perps came from and what's funny is i don't even think the
guy was lying i think he heard about the mendo perps that was yours that got popular and that
people were rumoring urkel came from and his weed he probably had called mendo perps because
it's pretty vague fucking name right it's like black afghani very very vague yep whatever it
would or like big bud or you know what i mean snow bud like these things could easily be reused by
somebody like imagine now when you try to name strains and you google it people come up with the
same fucking idea for a lot of yeah it's really hard and i mean even it was even regional right
like like you just said snow bud like if you got snow bud from eugene it was the eugene snow
if you got it in the home bolt it was the humble snow if you got it somewhere else in
oregon it was called oregon snow and the humbled guys and the eugene guys and the oregon guys all
thought that theirs was the first one and everyone else got theirs later yeah because it's where they
saw it first yeah you know and so i was talking to caleb at one point and i told him about that
guy and i asked him like about like the perps what is it and i'm just curious because he he seemed to
have done a lot of work with all the different things he goes dude the mendo perps is totally
different than the urkel it's not even in the same ballpark and there's no way that there's any truth
to that and i was like oh okay and it's the same as like when one of the first times i really
bullshitted with him a lot of the show i was like yeah i go when i was in maui in the late 90s for
the early right around 2000 somewhere in there there was this weed that my buddy lance used to
always have that he called dog and he was always like this is the dog and i was always like damn
this is some fire fucking weed and i wasn't really familiar with any of like the cam and the diesel
and all that shit came later for me because i wasn't seeing a lot of clones and i was seeing
more like i said that lineup of the humble clones those more like commercial ones that were around
and shit and so i remember talking to caleb and being like yeah i don't know like i might
because this is after i'd been reading shit online and stuff i was like it might be the it might be
the um the original dog bud i'm not sure because these dudes were in oregon and they were in maui
and they had it and then years later i was able to talk to my buddy game from over there and he
goes no i know the dude who had that and he says that he found it in a bag of chem dog 91
and he found it and he popped it and they call that the dog in maui and that was right around
that time period and i was like all right well that makes sense but the names are so trippy
because them just going oh we got it out of chem dog we're going to call it dog then you get that
weed and then you hear the stories and you're like well so is it that and it's so easy to like think
that that could be the real lineage and then be like well no because this information disproves
it but that's why it's good to keep track of all of it to go okay and then it turns out fuck that
dog that's really good fucking weed right it's a really good clone like yeah and then years and
years later caleb runs a bunch of uh you know a couple rooms of chem 91 s1s and a bunch of them
look like that maui dog cut yeah so of course because you know so it probably was like you
could put some pictures that he took right up against some really nice pictures of that maui
dog from 99 or 2000 or whatever and they look almost identical and so you could imagine it
being bag seed coming out of coming out of that weed you know and that's one of the things like
that's one of the coolest things to me about s1s is when if you just if you do that you can if you
do an s1 because i've gone up there and i've seen you know uh half a room of of urkel s1s and half a
room of mendo ps1s and you can tell just by if you're a breeder at all that these things are not
related like you don't see any similar expressions whatsoever right yeah and that's the same thing
with this feed that was the that he was calling mendo perps and saying oh i made the mendo perps
i don't even think that he was i mean this shit was some nasty mendo perps it just was not mendo
perps it wasn't the same thing to this day i'm still like fuck i wish i could get some of those
seeds because they were these buds that were like way chunkier than any of this other stuff
and a really cool obviously afghani probably pure really sweet really nice but probably
totally unrelated to both strains you know what i mean sure but like not not without value just
because it has a funny name or a funny story you're still like fuck i want to get my hands on
that on that stuff and you know that at this point it's probably gone like he's probably from now
from from a long time ago he probably like uh purple went out the door that was in the purple
craze yeah and then he probably started growing diesel and didn't even keep his seeds you know
because i mean it's i mean the purple craze had what 15 or 18 year break between when it was
hella popular before it got hella popular again right yeah 15 years something like that it went
you know oh five oh six everybody i mean i don't know yeah cookies cookies brought back purple weed
in 2011 teens and yeah so it really only took a little break but as far as like urkel type purple
even sweet purple like gelato it took between urkel and gelato to be back where people wanted
sweet perps and not doughy perps or whatever not so missed a big era where there were a few of us
like me and body and a few of us that were only doing purples so yeah we didn't let it die but
it definitely died down i just mean in the sense what i was more speaking of in terms of like
like the market demanding it so much not that it was way down but like there was an era
when we were talking about like in the mid 2000s where like purple like purple weed was the thing
and everyone wanted purple wheat and like purple weed never went away but like i would say the last
couple years all of a sudden all my friends have been like well i guess purple weed is is in again
people say my weed you know i haven't heard i haven't heard oh this is fire but it's like not
purple enough in a long time but that's what you used to hear about that summer grown urkel
you'd be like oh it's irk but it like it didn't it didn't darken up on you you know like it didn't
get because it was hot in summer you know so it stayed kind of greenish and they're like oh it's
not quite purple enough but darks that's green grapes we don't want that yeah yeah the purple
craze too is interesting because it was the weed that made people want it initially it wasn't so
much that it was purple um and it really popularized stuff being purple for a while but
it's trippy because like we in mendo there was always a lot of purple weed all the way back
because the purple in a lot of cases comes out of these old afghani types and so people had purple
it wasn't that it wasn't a thing it was that there was no premium on it people were like some of them
are green some of them are purple some of them are 50 50 and it didn't really matter at all so
some people had had like real varieties that were like they're purple like this shit is purple my
buddy jed and his and his dad they had like this purple that was just straight solid purple and
it ran really late and it was really peppery and dank um not so might know these guys they're from
between like here and willets but it was like the most purple um like it was so saturated you know
but that's like also how like big blue was which i saw as early as the as the mid 90s you roll a
joint you lick the paper and it bleeds through and the whole paper turns purple where you lick it
and um and then even that way back before that like you asked me what's the first weed i can
remember like 1989 was a common popular clone which when i say common and popular i'm from a
small area yeah with a group of people so it's popular and common if it comes from legate and
willets it doesn't mean that there's two things it's not like now where it's like oh it's blue
dream it's fucking all over the states or whatever just means that like it made its rounds and it
wasn't just one or two families that had it was actually something that was like you know it got
around and uh so as far back as the 80s there was already a clone that was around and that people
were really liking that was like it was purple and it was kind of more of a red or purple as
opposed to a blue or purple it was really fucking pretty but um and on top of the weed that would
turn purple just naturally there was a lot of afghan blended stuff in mendo that would turn
purple with the cold uh if you let it go if it got a light frost or something in october
especially if you took like all your people used to take their their first what we call the first
cut and they would take all the big tops first because you were scared of those rotting you know
and you wanted to get some money in the barn and then you would let your seconds your second and
third round sit and a lot of times and you and you'd want those to ripen up a bit more and so
a lot of times those would go through some more cold nights and those cold nights would bring out
that like latent afghan um you know purpleness so there was two things there was like weed that
just turned purple naturally in most conditions and that was like that was around and then there
was a lot of weed that if you grew it outdoor and you let it run late and it went through some cold
weather that it would turn purple but it took some like in the 30s nights to make it pop and
being too like basically overdone and created and not really that good a weed at that point
like a real purple a real purple weed has to be like you could like grow it indoor and it'll be
purple or you can grow it outdoor and cut it before it turns to shit and it'll be purple
like even urkel outside didn't like to get um purple as much indoor it was easier to get it
purple and outside it for whatever reason and i've seen this with a lot of things like hindu
inside would get a little bit purple but outside it would never get a touch of purple right and
then um it could i don't know if it's like the spectrum or what what it is because i know it's
not just cold because indoor you usually have it more controlled but um but urkel was one of those
ones where it wasn't that great in the weather it it was very kind of hairy on the inside and it
would like to start to get a little bit of mold outdoor if you were not in the greatest area and
then you would have to cut your real big chunk and then when you left you would leave the small
buds like he's saying and then they would turn really dark and it would be like your little
buds that weren't that great even if some of them were little like this that weren't trimmed very
well but it would be really dark and people would be like those are the ones we want that stuff
yeah but people wanted color at that point and that that but that was like her time when color
mattered was with urkel whereas before that it was like yeah purple you know green is a bomb
and then we want darks and that was that was a weird time let's start flipping in to to nowadays
what you're working with up in mendo now currently gene like what you're seeing around the scene
nowadays as far as breeding goes what you're finding around nowadays that you're enjoying
breeding with oh first thing comes to mind there's some p there's some people who have
cool things that are from back in the era we're talking about where they they used to have um
cool stuff and then you talk to them and they're like they were actually like into plants and stuff
so they've kept things and so there's like cool little things here and there that kind of pop out
um and i always try to like check them out just to see if because every once in a while something's
really really dank yeah um but like for the most part i really try to focus on like digging through
the stuff i have because i know that i haven't done a good job of really um exploring all the
stuff that i make because i'll make a lot of stuff and then i'll i'll pop whatever looks really
the the most attractive right away yeah all breeders that do it for a while have a pile of
one day but your instincts aren't always going to be correct so like i'm always like i i do avoid
trying to pick up too much stuff here and there so i try to kind of like take what i consider to
be my ones that are really like the backbone of what i've done and then do out crosses with them
here and there to make cool stuff but then keep really trying to like focus on them so those ones
are like like pina grape soda skunk the jarro and root beer stuff which are kind of almost the same
um the lime stuff which is really my favorite and then i have like the various kush lines that i do
um that are more like the og type stuff and then like the more little odd like the sky
cuddler kush or sky cuddler double kush and um those ones are all ones that i try i'm trying to
like find what's really the best in them and take them those directions and then you know i put out
a little bit of them for other people to do the same thing when they're a little looser so that
it's not all left up completely to me saying this is where it should go because some people they like
everybody likes something different somebody wants this somebody wants the straight og one and i'm
like i like some influence from the og but og is a thing so i'm not really making anything if i make
this og so i like have it where i did one not so saw a little bit of the og work that i was doing
when he was up last time it's like very it's very kind of targeted there and it's kind of
reached that point where it's good the high i like a little bit better um than og just but
some people maybe wouldn't because they want the more real intensity but it's a little bit more
clear i'd say um but uh yeah i mean i just i'm always trying to like figure out really
narrow it down but those ones that i named are like the ones that go back
the most and that have been the most well received and that i've explored the most
but what's fucked up is that like in those same years when i made all this different stuff there's
all these other things that i didn't ever even try yeah and and for a long time and then not so
knows how it is here like you could make a lot of seeds and if you weren't on the internet like
who's ever gonna want to grow all the seeds yeah so you're like thinking you're doing all this
shit for nothing and after a while you kind of just feel like a geek like doing weird shit for
no for like no end like what is ever gonna i i can only get to some of them nobody wants to grow
anything i don't fucking know anybody i only know these few people so i have like these few friends
like my buddy's mom grows them for medical and kills it and my one buddy couldn't get cloned so
he decided to do a big run and then he killed it he wants more seeds and you know like there's these
little pockets here and there but like i wasn't on the internet until 2012 so like i forums um
my buddy reservation labs who used to work with me up here who's not from here he was on
the internet and i wish i would have known he didn't ever talk to me about it i remember him
you knew about forums fuck and like he got all this shit for me you know yeah and so it was one
of these funny things where i was like i wish i would have fucking like there was no there was
no reason for it to come up really yeah other than if i said we should do but you know i was
like i was just like doing weed shit he's like what do you want to be on the internet before like
that'd be he probably thought i'd think he was sketchy for being on the internet with weed like
probably say like and there's my week where like you live up here and i i would say that probably
like people have uh people have a lot of misconceptions about what it's like to actually
live up here you know uh our bubble is is is really weird in that regard and that you can be
really insulated and like everyone you know like everyone that you hang out with for the most part
might grow weed but that doesn't mean that like you're tied into the larger community like i you
know i kind of call it when i got on ig you know i did the forum thing a long time ago but then i
had a break and i kind of felt like i crawled out from under my rock because we i was just living
that like mendo life you know or came out of the closet came out however you want to put it however
you want to put it you know but you know even with with him with seeds it's the same thing with
me with you know people ask me about my collection of of clones and i've tended to try to keep things
that i like but it's a total bitch because you know he's talking about trying to get friends to
to grow his seeds me getting friends to back up my strains that aren't currently popular
fuck it's so hard you know i mean even when times were easier four or five years ago people wanted
to have a mothers of the things they were currently blooming for for flower they didn't
want to back up a bunch of stuff you know and then it would get popular again and people would be like
hey do you still have that man that thing that you had was super amazing could i get it and so i end
up like having people back up stuff for me but i try to like stuff it with people that actually love
the two or three or four cuts that go their direction because i'm like oh if they love it
they'll hold on to it you know and i think there's an aspect now and i don't exactly know
how it's going to change but i would say like maybe five or six years ago before the the
maybe when would you say when would you say gene the the it started getting blown out bad about
five years ago huh before even the legalization started there was like a year or two but for
seeds at least there was a thing where like emerald cup and some of these different things as you guys
both know there was a bunch of growers with extra money in their pocket it would come to these
things and they would want to get some fresh seeds and a lot of outdoor growers wanted to grow from
seed because there was this idea that seeds got bigger than clones and so on and so forth you know
and had more vigor or whatever and so people were a little bit more willing to experiment
but now it almost like there needs to be like some kind of change in the regulations or laws because
like the nurseries just want to grow what's popular and then they want to sell popular clones
to people that have you know the ability to grow flower and those guys want to grow what's popular
because they can't even sell direct to the public nor can they sell direct to a dispensary they have
to convince a distro to buy it and then that distro you know has to um you know has to come back and
and decide to sell that to like a shop where the days where where you know gene could have a friend
go into a into a shop in the bay and say i've got some i've got a couple duffel bags of some fire
weed are you interested those days are gone yeah so so even even any breeder whether it's it's him
or you or caleb or anybody else even just getting someone to be able to see it someone to care about
you know somebody could grow a bunch of his stuff and be like oh my god this shit's fire
you know or or whatever and then the the distro is like i don't care and then the public wouldn't
even see it and then yeah and then too with with like with seeds growing from seeds it's hard
because uh you know there's not really nobody really has any seeds that are so true breeding
that you can grow them and then have it be like a true harvest batch where you can say
all of these are going to be 22 yeah thc all of these are whatever you know whatever it is
like um like uh like the uh i haven't tested a ton of them but like the grape soda skunks the
ones that we tested they're like in the mid teens on cbd the thc is almost not there it's like
turned into almost like a hemp line but it's really fucking dank you know um and is really
close to being at that point but even if even if you got it to be there it's like he said like the
distro why would the distro want that they're like no we want something with whatever in the name it
has to sound like relevant with this little box that we know is definitely marketable you know so
um you know it's one of those it's one of those weird things but just seeds in general because
of that it's like okay they're all a little bit different you know um like i have a lot of things
but they're always in the the low 20 thc or they're always in the mid 20 thc so it's like you
can do them but it doesn't really like um it's still it's still hard to translate to the market
if it's not and then that's why like over the last however many years i mean i got my hands on
cookies when it was like unknown basically you know and i i didn't even really i was like cool
you know this is what these dudes in san francisco have and everybody really likes it in that circle
and um i started doing stuff with it because it there was neat shit it reminded me of neat old
stuff you know and um so then like over the years i've tried to do like i did like the stuff with
the gelato and all that just because you look at how it is and people are like oh those were really
cool but do you have anything that's like the stuff that people are talking about do you have
you know gelato 41 do you have blah blah blah and i'm like well i mean you know people you want
to give people the seeds that they're going to grow and that's how it's turned into um
uh a weird thing where like i'm like running parallels you know like i have like all the
stuff that i really really want to do and some of that really actually is shit that has that stuff
in it i do have cookie and gelato work that i really really like yeah but at the same time
you're like you have to have these things that people know okay i can get my new clone that's
a new flavor where when i go to do it i can have something where people are going to go okay i can
this is something that is actually can go on the market and everything's been like put into such a
small such a small box now that you kind of have to go with the flow to an extent you know like you
can't just no no i'm just gonna look at the pool go gold everybody i'm like no they're not gonna
want it they've been they've been talking about like doing some like um making some laws or some
amendments to what's going on where you could have some like farmers markets and you could do direct
sales um that's really what it would kind of take in order to get a bunch of variety out there
is because you know i mean you guys both know like when you used to go to like a um you know
a high times cup or a emerald cup or something like that it was kind of like a weed swap meet
you could crack open people's jars there'd be some like furry dudes with from some place some
random spot up north and they had a bunch of big jars this big of all kinds of weed and you could
crack and you could smell it you could check it out and so the way that they have it now where
it's like you can't see most weed in a store and you can't smell most weed in a store they really
like it they don't really have like a method for people to bring new things you know and like it
there has to be something more than just like a couple people being able to hype something
right and and drive hype you know because there's a lot of good weed out there he was talking about
it a minute ago but almost all my favorite weed and what i mean by favorite weed in terms of like
the weed that gets me the highest it's almost all between 18 and 25 percent in thc you know
most of this 30 club i find to be very bland and boring weed so there's something lost there when
it gets above a certain quotient you know or people are breeding for numbers because people
20 years ago or longer people bred by like if you're breeding for high the high is an invisible
trait right it's invisible like you just don't know so like a lot of times people things would
get famous because they worked you know not always like he was talking about the flow like it barely
it tasted great and it looked cool but it barely got you high but like a lot of weed got popular
because it worked well you know and now it's kind of about the name and the look and the thc
percentage and the numbers and not really much about like how does it work and so i think there's
a lot of unique highs on a lot of different aspects probably in various people's stuff and
you're like well how do i get it to the public you know how do i you know um how do i get the
how do i get the public to shine on me for a minute and want everything that i have and so
you know and then nurseries nurseries just want to sell as many clones as they can do as many legal
farms as they can so they're picking the 10 or 15 most popular cuts that they think they can sell
the most of and that's what's on their menu this spring right now you can go and you can look at
all these nurseries and these nurseries have decided what do i think i can sell the most of
this year what do i think is a safe bet to mom up x number of moms of each one of these things
that i can sell it on the legal market and they probably they probably have like a
a fuck ton of cool strains that they're not selling to people but they have them but they're
just yeah they just don't it's like they don't think there's going to be i can't afford to have
100 moms of that because i don't know if i'll be able to sell enough cuts yeah and it's it's all
unfortunate because it all makes sense because you go well what what are you going to do you
know what i mean like whatever you're farming if you're farming if you're farming tomatoes and you
know people don't want like this kind of tomato then what why the fuck are you going to farm that
kind of tomato and if you're the nursery selling plants to grow something then why are you gonna
if you know everybody's gonna buy granny smith apples and you're fucking have a nursery that
sells apple trees like you're not just gonna go but i got a million of these and people are gonna
be like cool but like where's those ones and then you're like well but i i don't have these and then
you're like well fucking you know it's like joe dirt's fucking snakes and sparklers you know
you gotta have the ship and people people want like it's uh it's just this loop that just gets
it just gets stuck and it um i don't know it's unfortunate but it's like it's just i don't it's
how it's how everything is is laid out and i think part of it has to do like with what you're saying
it would be nice if you could go okay uh like there's a system of okay everybody can get free
samples everybody can look at a jar everybody can feel it everybody can roll it up and see
what they like but what happens is it's like somebody goes in they go i mean it's in a bag
it's a sealed i mean what's the number this one has the big number i can't see anything else
and then now people too say like oh look at the terpene test don't look at the thc test and i'm
like well high terpenes don't mean shit yeah a bunch of something's flavorful skittles only has
like 1.6 percent or some shit yeah it's not even high it's just tons of linalool which is fucking
amazing you know and then there's like all those things that are like that and some of them that
are high are really good but it's not that the numbers never tell you and then even if you know
that everybody else says it's really good you might still smoke it and be like a lot of people
could think that blue dream is the greatest weed ever because people love it so much and a lot of
people could think that blue dream is the worst weed ever because so many people hate it so much
but the only way to know if you really like blue dream or you hate it is to smoke it and some
people will be like it's like fucking cilantro right or garlic some people are like that tastes
like shit and some people are like that tastes like heaven and you gotta be able to you take
blue dream and there's some stuff like blue dream or green crack or you know uh or berry white in
our area that gets blown out and it gets a bad reputation but if you grow like a four to six
ounce plant or you know or a half pound plant of that thing and you keep it kind of small
and you treat it right it's delicious it gets a bad rep because there's some dudes that are
pumping out eight to twelve pound blue dreams that are kind of b-grade and they get treated
yeah great and then there's all this weed and it's like oh blue dream sucks and it's like yeah that
that that version of it does suck but if you took that strain and you grew six ounces of it in a 10
gallon pot you know in your side plot it would come out fire and it would probably be a nice jar
i'll even i grew blue dream and i didn't i got it late but it was still big big ass plant i mean
like that's what's crazy about blue dream was like i tossed in one out of like a
like a four gallon bucket like an actual bucket that my buddy gave me that was a spare plant and
i put it in really late like as a replacement and i still think i got like five pounds of weed off of
it and it's big huge but it's pretty big plant good size plant i mean you wouldn't have thought
it had that much weed on it but dude the weed was all really fucking killer like i've always grown
like i always have the 25 plants and i um i was able to always have like really big plants that
were just the same fucking weed as i as i had like anywhere else but i didn't have fucking 350
of them you know what i mean i just had like little gardens so they're big plants but very
you know taken care of and and and you know keeping track of what um i think a lot of people who had
really big plants and who had a ton of them it's like harvest is october 4th we're cutting this
shit down or yeah you know like these different you get these like real vague growing styles and
for me i'd be like oh okay the north side of this plant is really fucking done so i'm gonna go ahead
and cut like this section of this plant and then it looks like the stuff that's on the very top
is pretty close and then i cut that and then it'd be like oh the south side is not quite
you know big plants are a whole trip because it's like a whole garden on one plant so the south side
finishes way later like sometimes like you know 10 days later two weeks later and the stuff on the
back side is like done and if you go through and you harvest your whole garden at once
you're like okay sweet well now we have the back side is fucking you know 14 days too far and the
front side's premature and the middle is great but fucking those tops probably should have come down
because they're kind of fucking fucked off up there now and so people's stuff just winds up being like
this vague handling method that's not specific enough you know but like it is
there's an aspect to him and i have talked about this years ago where like there are some strains
that can maintain their quality as they get bigger and bigger and bigger maintain their
resin and things like that but there is this ratio of like and in general like the there's a range
where the plant's going to give you better weed if it's smaller it's not in all cases but in a lot
of cases and if you get it too big it puts so much energy into like the stems and the structure
and you're building scaffolding around it and it becomes a huge pain in the ass to maintain
and the stem on the base is like this fucking big and you're worried about it cracking and you're
like like gluing it when it splits because you're worried about rot and so there's just a lot of
things that like make it like harder like he was just saying harder to like harvest it in the perfect
window you're just trying to ride this beast until it gets to somewhat done and you can start
taking some of it down and you don't lose it so the million different things that can fuck with you
you know and if you've got 99 of those that's really fucking hard to like really keep up with
that and if you just go ahead and take the same clone and do a big garden of seven gallon pots
and your plants are just these little plants and that's like oh every bud is perfect and every
plant is totally even and there is no front side there is no back side they're too small for that
you know and you yeah like if you really want good weed like it is a lot easier to do it in
in small pots i was doing it or even beds you can do it in bed but just moderate sized plants you
know i mean we grew giants in mendo um because you know there used to be you know plant counts were
pretty intense and if you got over a hundred plant a hundred plants the feds could get you
you know um and then you know mendo was like okay you know like we'll give you 25.
25 we won't really fuck with you too much you know you can have your 25 and you're safe and
then so people are like well how do i get 250 pounds off 25 plants how do i get 200 pounds
off 20 plants you know whatever it might be and so you start developing these methods based on
like the rules blue dream blue dream you know blue dream and you know oh i'm gonna grow green
crack and that's kind of where green crack or blue dream or berry white get bad names because people
are like oh i can get this clone that'll give me this much weed on a reliable basis and i can put
25 of them in my garden and that's my season right and now there's too much b grade blue dream and
people are like blue dream sucks they're like no there's just a lot of commercial b grade blue
dream on the market it doesn't stop i have friends who like really love certain types of weed and
like you can give them the best blue dream ever they can grow it themselves or whatever and that
terp profile they just fucking hate it some people hate terpenoline terpenoline some people
things some people hate cookie turps some people hate perp sweet turps some people don't like chemd
turps some people don't like gmo turps like some some shit's different like nobody likes the same
things everybody doesn't like blue cheese and everybody doesn't like vinaigrette like some
people are like no dude like some people ranch on everything and some people think ranch is
fucking disgusting you know so like when you have weed there's these profiles of these smells and
stuff where it's like you know some people love to wear really heavy cologne they think they smell
great when they come in a room and me when someone walks in a room with whatever heavy
cologne it is it's probably 99 of the time i'm gonna be like oh come on dude why are you wearing
something like that smells so good you know it's just there's a lot of it a lot of it comes down to
to to preference you know like some people don't really powerful weed some people like really mellow
weed even if they've smoked a shit ton of weed you know like one thing we can all agree on
huh is that everyone loves root beer and while there's 331 fucking people in here right now
gene let everybody know where they can get your seeds um so there's a little bit of stuff i have
the um the uh i have a little bit of stuff at alpine seed group.com um uh speakeasy speakeasy
has some stuff sometimes uh llf has some stuff sometimes um and that's basically the only people
who i know who have anything really um here and there but um what are you working on right now
what are you stoked about like right this second that you have in your shit you're like fuck i
can't wait for people to see this well maybe maybe we should ask him this it's spring what have you
planted bro because i see now i got with green like little greenhouses full of seed starts so
you're obviously excited about some things because you're planting it's that time right you're popping
seeds all right so this would be this has got i just gotta be my last thing that i talk about
because i i thought i figured the vibe was gonna i figured lives are about an hour but we've managed
to push into the end yeah it's all right like this uh it's it's a disaster in there and i'm in trouble
but uh um basically uh i have right now going a bunch of things that are like promising that
either i have like people are testing out for me and i want to like get a get a hands-on idea of
like okay how do they smoke so that i can line up what their feedback is with what i really think
yeah or there are things that i think might be super intersex prone and i just want to see a
little bit of them to see like are these things is it just are they is it intersects everywhere in
there um so they don't even plant more of them so if i think that they might be real problematic
or i already know that they're the shit but i want to have an idea of what a few of them look like
i have like 18 little starts going of those types right which isn't very many but it's enough to
either yeah or to confirm what's already been done with other numbers elsewhere or even maybe
that i have seen a little bit of stuff and then the other ones i have a tray of 36 each so that
i can really see what does you know what does it look like when you have basically three packs worth
of seeds and then if it's a home run on that and i'm like holy shit every plant is great in this
i can hear that statistically we're looking at something that's pretty good
and i look through those and there's nothing good and if there's not anything good in three packs of
seeds then i'm like i have other shit that i can focus on so it's basically right now a big test
about 50 things going i have sensi star cross sensi star cross jarro i have a bunch of cookie
lines animal west f4s which are gorgeous they're like little dinosaurs little rhinoceros looking
plants i have some of my og lines like not so not so saw kind of the same stuff but trying some of
them more myself um i have a bunch of lime crosses i made with the f5 lime males a pair of
males that i really liked out of a bunch of plants um i have cherry west cross lime two different
lines of that i have uh what else do i have so there's like kim d lime um a few other cool things
that i got uh like some cool cuts that i got from skunk tech that are bomb that i hit with that lime
i have what else do i have um trying to place exactly as if i kind of go walk myself down the
rows it's like sensi star back cross i'm being paged um it's all good uh going down the line
yeah all the cookie stuff the cherry west i know there's other stuff that i'm not saying there's
some different kush crosses um like yeska og og jarro um pk cross skycutler double kush
um i don't know a whole bunch of different stuff but they're all that kind of stuff i'll do a post
in a while that has like stuff up and uh and maybe a list of what all those different things are but
anyway it's like 1250 plants basically 50 to 18 of some 36 of the other um and and uh you know like
i said that was my logic was like all right there's some that if i think maybe they're really
problematic like animal cookies back cross to sure try you know they all harm if they're not
all her mom like fuck all right we'll try try try 36 of those you see what's it goes you know or try
50 of those and then like some pure limes uh lime one cross lime f5 so lime one bread to f5 put back
on the original there um so i have like a targeted mother of targeted males that are put back on the
more open mother so that that's a combination where this is already a predictable mom but now
i have a real predictable male set that i put back on them um and then you know uh lime one back cross
two and shit like that just a bunch of different stuff to look through and um and uh you know
pink champagne root beer and uh pink champagne lime pink champagne pina um and the pink champagne's
not like the original it's a bag seed clone that i got from these dudes and it's super killer really
really nice plant but that's what's going down i gotta go uh burn some beef and um thanks for
having me on and thank you you know before everyone's gone be sure to check out speakeasy
seed bank uh they've got some of our gear and gene's gear um check out breeders in a get.com
we have our patreon up where you can come interact with us all the time we shoot the
shit all the time we've got some fights going tomorrow um check out the northern lights drop
with me and you can get it from me or you can get them from um inspecta over at humboldtcsi.com
um the nl5 drops out and slamming fucking slamming so that's up go get them um there's
breeder's packs available and what else we got we will have caleb on uh talking about the nl stuff
very soon i talked about last night so yeah thank you all for giving us your friday night
and listening for long and uh we'll see you soon peace peace
