Welcome to Breeder's Syndicate, where we explore the history of a clandestine scene
through the eyes of the folks who lived it.
I'm Matthew, owner of Riot Seeds.
I'll occasionally be joined by my co-host, NotSoDog, breeder and grower from Mendocino.
Welcome to the underground.
Can you hear me?
We're ready to rock.
I can hear you.
We're good?
All right.
We're good.
We're good.
We're ready to rock.
Okay, so we wanted to start out.
Last week, or two weeks ago, we ended with part one.
We went over the introduction of Smellboat Seeds, how it all started, how Smellboat came
to be, what it meant, what the word even meant, and some of the naming conventions of some
of your lines.
We went over Rainbow.
We even touched a little bit on your brother at the end, which I'm sure people were surprised
that we even covered.
Talked about him.
And then we talked a little bit about what we didn't cover, what we missed, some of the
other things we wanted to talk about.
So I wanted to do a part two.
This is one of the episodes I think I've been hit up about most for people wanting
us to do a part two.
They're like, you've got to do them next week.
And we already had something planned.
So we're diving back into it.
I had a lot of people reach out.
I mean, unexpectedly, sort of.
I have a lot of friends, people who I talk to on Instagram and stuff.
But there was strangers that were reaching out to me.
And they were all like, hey, I listened to your podcast a long time ago.
And then this one.
And I want to hear more.
Go more in detail on this, more in detail on that.
When are the fucking seeds being released again?
Because I am a stingy bastard when it comes to releasing seeds.
We all know this.
Yes.
It's fucking horrifying.
It's like, my precious.
A year, two years, five, close enough.
How can I work with them for four years before I let anyone touch them?
But it's so much better than flooding the market with just crap that you're not proud
of or that you're not sure of.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
And we were, you guys didn't get to see our intro, but we literally were talking for another
30 minutes.
We're like, we've got to fucking stop.
We have to stop.
We have to stop because we have to have shit for the show.
Yeah.
It could have been another episode in itself.
Yeah.
And it would have just kept flowing.
So you want me to talk about what's coming up?
Yeah.
Let's talk about the seeds that you're going to be releasing in the next week or so.
Because I have to go meet up with them to go pick these up.
So I don't have them in hand, but we are going to release these in the next week.
The plan was for today, I had a rock monster come out of my penis and hurt me to death.
So I had an ugly night last night.
So when Matt and I talked this morning, he was all, hey, things are going on.
And I was all, honestly, I'm glad you're saying it because I'm beat the fuck today.
So let's just do this.
And then we'll meet up this week.
And yeah, so I kind of want to do this release a little different.
So there isn't going to be like, here's 15 varieties.
So yeah, the ones that I really, really, really have loved.
So I mean, I shouldn't say that.
The ones that they're all fucking good.
I'm not even going to mention that.
So the five, these are the five that are coming out.
Yeah.
So we're going to start off with the London pound cake 75 by the Rainbow Sister.
The cool thing about it is, is that the London pound cake, it's turt show up, but not it's weird structure.
Yes, but not it's weird structure of, like, if you don't nail that plant, like she will get poofy on you.
Not larvae per se, but poofy on you.
Like an old hash plant.
Not as dense as like a cookies or OG.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Like, so now you add that rainbow to it, you get that turt, but you get the rainbow high profile growth pattern structure, all that.
And it's been, yeah.
And it's fucking been repetitive.
It's been over and over and over.
We have found a few that are gassy, like a gassy fruit is the only way I can describe it, like a aerosol fruit that gets in your sensors.
But most of them are like the, a lemon OG or a berry OG or something around that.
Why did you just say get in your sensors?
Yeah.
Get up in the censors, like your robot.
Get it right up in here.
Get up in there.
We got sensors.
That's, that's the fucking first one.
Have you named it yet?
Or has your daughter named it yet?
She hasn't.
And I don't know.
You're going to have to just do a spinning board of names of names.
And, uh, well, yeah, that's something that we should discuss because I am the worst at naming plants.
My names have always been this plant by this plant is what this plant is called.
And a lot of people like that.
And I think we're getting back to that.
Like, yeah, people wanted everything to be like fucking cream puff pie with cinnamon strudel and Twinkie Dicks and things like that.
But I think it's like Twinkie Dicks and it never tastes like Twinkie Dicks.
Yeah, it never tastes like a Twinkie Dick.
How do you not go taste like Twinkie Dicks?
I've tasted so many Twinkie Dicks and none of them ever taste like Twinkie Dicks.
Just so many fucking Twinkie Dicks.
So that one is really fucking good.
I am not a huge fan of some of these plants that are popular.
Like, I did some Runtz crosses and stuff as well.
I released it to a few friends because they were very much wanting it.
But for me, it was I don't trust the Runtz plant as much as I did the London Poundcake 75.
The London Poundcake 75 has shown.
It's a lot like Sunset Sherbert.
But I really enjoyed the cut of Sunset Sherbert I got years ago.
The first one that I worked with.
Yeah, I like Sherbert. Sherbert's pretty good.
Yeah, it has that funk to it.
So anyhow, that was number one.
The second one is a plant that is Blue Hawaiian by Romulan.
So is that a Jordan of the Islands one?
Dude, I have no idea.
Somebody gifted me this clone.
And they were all, hey, you have to try this plant.
And I was all, cool.
So it sat for a long time.
And then I grew it.
And it's fucking good.
It's fucking good.
Was it life on its own?
So it's...
Blue Hawaiian of the Romulan.
Do you remember...
Oh, God.
What was the name of that fucking plant?
Jesus, it's an old Europe guy.
It turned like this weird purple on the inside.
I think Black Rose was made from it.
God damn it, I still have seeds of it.
Blackberry or Black Ruffian?
I think it was even around those times.
Anyways, I think...
I'll go grab the seeds.
Sani.
Sani Seeds made this plant.
Oh, okay.
I remember Sani.
Yeah, and it actually turns like this weird lilac-y purple.
Right off the bat.
Yeah.
And it will come to me in a minute.
In a minute on what the name of the plant is.
Because I still have some of Sani's original release of the seeds in the freezer.
So anyways...
Killing Fields?
Killing Fields.
There you go.
Killing Fields.
Killing Fields.
That was his old Jack Harer hybrid.
Yeah, so it will remind you of Killing Fields, right?
Because of the color and stuff.
But then it has this like berry flavor-y smell taste thing going on to it.
From the Blue Hawaiian.
I'm assuming Blue Hawaiian is a blueberry hybrid.
It is.
It is.
I actually crossed the Blue Bonnet to a Blue Hawaiian this last round.
You probably got a lot of fucking blueberries.
I actually saved you a pack of the London Pound Cake crossed the Blue Bonnet too.
Oh, that will be fucking interesting.
Yeah, I didn't make many of them.
I just had a small clone of it growing.
But yeah, I saved you some.
I think I brought you...
Did I bring you that clone?
I did.
You did bring me that clone.
I brought you that fucking clone.
I saved it for you.
That's right.
Okay.
So, and did the Romulan part.
The Romulan part was weird because I kept seeing more of the Blue Hawaiian show in color
and stature and everything.
And then with the rainbow, you were getting more of a rainbow look.
And the rainbow thing.
It was almost like the rainbow overpowered the Blue Hawaiian Romulan.
Yeah.
Except for coloring.
You will get these rainbow plants with that Killing Fields looking purple.
Like that weird purple.
When you crack it open.
Like you said, the lilac color.
Yes.
Like a lilac-y purple look to it.
And you want something that will remind you of a different time, a different era.
That would be fucking one.
Because it's just a trip.
When people ask me what does rainbow taste like, it's tert profile.
The thing that I get the most is it reminds me of the first time I smoked good wheat.
Like it reminds me of that time when Green Bud or Kind Buds or whatever it was.
It reminds me of that time.
And no one can really give me an explanation other than it reminds me of that.
You get that menthol minty, doughy, that soury dough type thing.
That Rainbow Sister, like I said, that was Bryn's favorite.
And it was one of my favorites too.
But it was more of a chocolatey version of that, which is super cool.
It has like a cocoa-y stuff.
They do.
And most of the shit that you see that promises chocolate doesn't provide chocolate.
No, a lot of the stuff that people promise chocolate with turns out like earthy.
And it's not chocolate.
It's not sweet milk chocolate.
It's just earthy.
And you can vaguely hope for some chocolate.
Hope for it.
Yeah.
I used to have a Bubba Cross.
I don't even know what it was crossed with.
Once again, gifted plants, man.
Do you remember at one time, late 90s, early 2000s,
when you started getting in with these tight friends and stuff like that?
People would gift you things.
There was a Bubba Cross that I had that was like espresso, like straight up.
Like drinking a cup of fucking espresso.
God, I wish I still had it.
She didn't yield for fucking shit.
It was like the world's smallest plant.
But the flower, like that coffee, like literally you open the bag
and the house smelled like fucking a bag of coffee beans.
So that one was cool.
We had a cloth, this one, called Smart Alex that was like that.
You open it and it just smelled like opening a can of Folgers,
like taking a nose in it.
Exactly.
How does this even exist?
Yeah, how does this terpene exist in cannabis?
Yeah, super weird.
So that was two.
The third one was Rainbow Sister.
We talked about that one already, the S1 version.
The San Diego OG, which I have went over in detail with people.
I still got to get Matt cut and some flowers of it
so he can kind of see where I think it's either related to
or from the same time and just one of the cuts went one way
and one of the cuts with triangle.
I think they're all around that same area, the same time frame,
the same thing.
I personally growing a triangle plant and the San Diego plant
beside each other, I smoke the San Diego every time.
It does have a different profile, like a smell profile,
but that could still be from like a drift.
You can still get drift in your smells and your growth patterns
and stuff, especially if one plant was beat up for decades.
Yeah, yeah.
Re-cut, re-cut, beat up.
Yeah.
So there could be that drift or they could be seeds
from the same parents where they both came from or something.
They're definitely fucking related, 100%.
The whole structure, everything looks the same.
It's just a little bit that San Diego has more of this
putridness, like this fucking nastiness.
People like the nasty.
Dude, and that plant.
That one will fuck you up.
That one gives you that old school, like locked in,
like I don't want to move a lot.
I'm going to sit here and fish or play video games
or I'm just going to sit here and fucking drool on myself.
That's just my life.
That's where I exist, natural.
Yeah, that's my every fucking day.
So, all right.
So that was four now.
So, right, we did.
Okay.
I think it was four.
I don't know.
That was four.
And then the, okay.
Oh, grape pie.
Grape pie.
Grape pie for me, by itself, it's interesting.
It's pretty.
I love the cut.
It's beautiful.
It's super fucking easy to grow.
It is.
Everyone looked like a rock star when you grow it.
The funny thing about that cut was it was from Canerado.
I can't remember.
I think it was Harry, Harry Palms who selected it.
It was like a one out of one seed selection, just one pop.
And it just turned out phenomenal.
I think they were saying something about three or four seeds.
Yeah, it was something ridiculous.
Yeah.
I remember we talked with Canerado at one of the shows
and he was talking about it and it was like before it hit the market.
He was giving me the cut really early on.
He was showing me pictures on his phone and I was going over some of the pictures
of the rainbow and we were both just comparing some notes.
That was one of the nicer dudes.
Yeah.
Canerado is really, really nice.
Always, always so cool.
I think a lot of people have a lot of impressions of him because he released,
like me, he released a lot of fem lines, fems, cross the fems, the stuff.
So they just assume that's all he does.
But I have loads of regular seeds and old lines that he's reproduced and stuff.
So he does some cool stuff.
Just not a lot of people are privy to it.
Yeah.
And I think a lot of people too, like, see like when you do fem lines
and you do the reversing and stuff like that.
I don't think if people seen what our DMs look like,
they would understand why we released so many.
Or you, people, I haven't really released fems.
This is going to be one of my first.
I've made them to like, you know, hold down genetics.
Yeah.
But my DMS are, when will you release, release films?
When will you make films?
Then you're going to do a fem seed, fem seed.
There's so many people who don't keep moms who don't make clothes.
They don't keep moms.
They don't want to wait.
They don't want to sign nails.
Space, space, space.
That's the one thing we get all the time.
And I hear you.
I understand, man.
I get it.
You know, not all of us have 120 fucking lights.
Yeah.
Like I have a lot of lights.
So for me, I have fucking mom rooms that are size of most of the people's flower
rooms.
So it's for me, like I, I kind of forget that, you know, like I remember those
days, like in the early nineties or mid, I shouldn't say early, mid to late
nineties.
And I had this tiny little fucking closet in the bedroom, you know, with
a light I stole off of the fucking street light, you know, cause it had a
balance well into the 2000s, man.
Still use an old magnetic ballast and shit.
Yeah.
I had the tweaker still the fucking actual streetlights.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
That's how my dad used to run it.
Yeah.
The metal halides off the streetlights.
And then I would flower under those.
And then I got my first magnetic ballasts and I remember they were like
just pieces of shit, but they didn't ever stop running.
No, that was part of the pro.
I still have some of them that are like 30 fucking years old and you could
still plug them in.
The problem is though, they never stopped running.
So even if they get sprayed with water, they never stopped running.
If your room floods, they never stop running.
They never stop running.
They sure don't.
Yeah.
You're going to electrocute shit out of yourself.
So that was the five that we were talking about.
Yeah.
I think that was the five.
I was, I was considering doing the wedding cake rainbow cyst or the GMO
rainbow cyst.
The GMO rainbow cysts.
I don't think, I don't know if people will grow it to its ultimate potential.
You want to take her 75, 80 days.
A lot of people aren't wanting to do that.
So if I release it and people are like, Hey, look at, you know,
This grows like poo bud bro.
Dude, what's crazy is she'll look done at 63.
Yeah.
She'll look done at 63, but then she'll hit a second growth at 67.
And then by 78, she is just the nastiest garlic BO thingy.
So they will eventually get released, but it will be a short release and
it will be like, Hey, understand what you're getting.
Yeah.
Understand what you're getting with this cross.
Like you're not getting a 63 day here.
Yeah.
Like you, you're going to add two more weeks to that.
People are going to pull it there anyway.
So it don't matter what they will.
They will.
And then they'll wash it and it'll wash beautifully.
And people will get it.
Yeah.
I got to get out of it.
Yeah.
Get all my fucking bugs off of it.
Yeah.
Speaking of bugs.
Yeah.
Hello.
Let's segue into our next, our next little topic.
So all those seats are going to be available.
Right.
Seats.com next week.
Well, I'll make a post on Patrion and Instagram and all that.
And so people know when they're available.
Also, everything is before we get to this.
We have a little bit of a, a little bit of a sweet spot.
Everything is before we go.
Everything is packed for our seed winners last week.
Okay, great.
Everything is literally packed sitting over
in the little area.
Yeah.
And I'm going to go get everything out.
So when you guys watch the show tonight,
your motherfucking seeds are going to be
flying away to you.
There you go.
I have, think I have four or five packages
heading out to good friends.
Be patient.
Yeah, good friends know they just slide
into the fucking DMs when they want shit.
DMs, the only fans pick.
That's what I do.
I need them dicks right there, boy.
The Twinkie dicks.
I need them Twinkie dick pics.
You know, when you're talking about your feet cramping
and I literally have my feet stuck
in a foot massager right now,
like a dual foot foot massage.
I'm so fucking dehydrated.
The back of my eyes and my feet are just like,
keep cramping up and I'm all, god damn.
So you're going to see me itching around today.
I need a banana.
Oh, for a lot of people who don't know,
I've had my colon removed years ago.
So I did a number on him.
Yeah, it was bad.
It was, it shouldn't have been in there.
So we had to remove some.
It was bad.
So I get dehydrated really fucking easy.
So, and I have been a little ill lately.
So I'm a little puffy, a little dehydrated.
So I'm super fucking crampy right now.
Like I'm having my man, my manstration.
Yes, man.
I'm cramped up from my manstration.
Jesus Christ.
I menstruated out of my penis, from kidney stone.
Yeah. Oh yes.
He also has kidney stones.
He has some good kidney stone stories too about airplanes.
Maybe, did we tell that story ever before?
I don't think so, but we should.
We should.
We should tell you two things to not do with kidney stones.
One, fly.
Two, sit down to pee.
He's also a sitzpinkler.
I think that's what they call it, a sitzpinkler.
You're all like, oh my God, I'm gonna pass out.
I'm gonna have to sit down to pee.
But when you sit down to pee, it kind of kinks shit.
And that kidney stone gets in there and it's all like.
It's like, yeah.
It feels like the tip of your dick gets blown off.
Well, it did.
Yeah, and then when they pressurize the plane.
Oh my God.
And that kidney stone drops out to your ureter
and all of a sudden that fucking plane pressurizes
and it sucks everything up.
Oh my Lord, I can't even imagine.
It's like a bunch of Valium before you fly.
And then you're passing out
because you were working at the place
where we're gonna go with this story
for in like 120 degree hot houses.
And you're pouring sweat and you're super dehydrated.
And all of a sudden the stone hits you.
And before it hits you though, you're all like,
hey, I got a six hour flight.
I'm gonna, I haven't slept in like three days.
I'm gonna take these muscle relaxers
and I'm gonna go to sleep on this plane.
And it doesn't work that way.
That's not how it works?
I kept jumping up, hitting my head.
Did it make you more relaxed
and it just kinda hit your way out?
Yeah, yeah, I didn't do any of that.
I just kept jumping and hitting my head
and then throwing up and then going crazy eyes
and then get back out.
I guess you were a treat to be next to on an airplane.
Oh my God.
I had taken friends with me.
So we had like the row.
So it was my row and then my friends were beside us.
And then the guy behind me was the nicest gentleman ever.
He just kept offering me drugs.
Oh, I wish I had gentlemen's like this on airplanes.
On the fucking, he was so,
Hey dude, and I was so out of it.
He was all, hey, I have nausea medicine.
I have pain medicine.
I'm all like, we're probably gonna have to be best friends.
Nice to meet you, gonna get your number.
Yeah, let's just text.
We'll text and be side boyfriends.
Oh, but Maui is the best place ever if you are in pain
because they will take fucking care of you.
I walked into a clinic and they didn't accept my insurance
but the lady doctor was all like,
there was all ladies in here.
And she was, I don't care, send them back anyways.
We just won't charge his insurance
instantly morphing into the art.
Oh wow.
Yeah, they called an ambulance
because my blood pressure was out of sorts
cause I have a fib and shit too.
Lots of stuff going on.
So they called an ambulance.
The ambulance comes and picks me up.
The ambulance driver was all, Oh buddy, morphine.
So they drive me, this is a tiny Island
has one little hospital.
We get to the hospital.
He's all, Hey, it might take a few minutes
for them to see you morphine.
I go inside the hospital.
The doctor comes in.
He saw that it looks like a pretty big kidney stone
morphine.
Yeah.
Then he's all, Hey, we're going to discharge you morphine.
Here's one for your way out.
Fucking morphine.
I was all, you know, in California
they'd give you a Tylenol.
In Hawaii, they were all like, Hey, this guy
it looks like he's dying over there.
Let's give him something to help.
And then they gave me Flomax.
And I had that kidney stone for seven of the 10 days
before I finally passed it.
It was like a big black rock.
But the whole reason that was it though
was where I was fiddling the couple of days
before we left was a giant growth.
Like it's a really, really big legal California
legal grow, everything like that.
And I remember we talked a few days
before you went out there.
Like we knew that there's like this potential to go out
there and you're like, I think I'm going to go.
Yeah. And I talked to you on my way home.
And I was telling you like, Hey, I'm going to be leaving.
Let's meet up and I can get you this and this.
And so while I was there, the cookie fellas show up
like this van, literally what they're fucking.
What did it have windows?
Did it have writing on the side?
It was a cookie's van.
Like it was a, they put that fucking logo on everything.
Oh, I bet they do.
They put it on somebody's forehead.
Well, honestly, I guarantee there's thousands of people
that have that tattoo.
Like instead of a tear, just a C.
Yeah. They see that they got their Edgar haircut
and their cookie shirt.
Edgar, Edgar, Edgar.
So anyways, I get there and I'm working
and I brought PD with me, of course,
because he has to go because he rocks.
Yeah. So he is my little fucking worker bee.
So we're busting ass, man.
And we're in there from literally eight in the morning
to five or six in the afternoon.
And the hot houses are like 110, 115 degrees.
I was so sweaty that like my clothes were soaked.
Like I had been swimming, like everything.
And I wasn't smart enough to bring extra clothes.
So our whole drive home, I just didn't have shirt on.
Like I was a tough guy.
Like I was a real sex pot from a four hour drive
with no shirt.
I always, I thought that part was hilarious.
Anyways, the cookie guys show up.
Yeah. And they're bringing all these clones
to be flowered at this facility.
And they were going, it's a white labeling.
I mean, you know, they say they grow it or whatever.
I think what they do is have clean rooms.
They grow a couple of pounds in the clean room,
have those pounds tested and then slide in,
hey, we have 300 pounds of that.
Yeah. And then they slide in
the greenhouse and the stuff in on that license
or whatever on that number.
California doesn't know, they're stupid as fuck.
Yeah.
So I go in and I want to see all these new ones
because they have like what's Mackinac plant names.
And I remember this is when she did all those came out.
Like all the right.
They were released.
No one had been talking about it.
Literally the white rents, pink rents,
all these rents plants were there.
And I had never even seen rents.
So we only like barely heard of it.
The different, there is multiple different pound cakes,
gelatos and sherberts and everything.
So I was looking at them and these clones
were like an inch and a half tall tops.
Like they were like these tiny, tiny clones.
They didn't have roots.
Most of them, like you'd pull them out and look,
it was like, it was literally like they had been trying
to root for three days.
And we're like, I did not.
Yeah. I did find a few with roots that I ended up
procuring to the facilities.
But it was a scary situation
because these plants were covered in PM.
Yeah.
Covered in spider mites.
And when I mean fucking covered, I mean like literally,
I've never seen like baby, baby clones with PM
because if you have PM on the mom plant,
you're taking a clone, you just fucking dip it.
Yeah.
And you know.
Yeah.
And so to see like these tiny infantile cuts,
that means they literally were taking them off
of PM covered moms, not caring,
just fucking plugging and going
and then delivering them to somebody else
to let it be their problem.
Just grow it out for us.
And we're going to put it in the bag anyways.
You know what I think they're probably doing is,
is some of their moms are probably in a,
in a have PM on them, but dormant, like they think it's gone.
But once they stick it in those domes, it's like.
It's done.
Yeah.
You're probably right.
And that little, those spores just popped.
Yeah.
They start going.
Yeah.
But they were, it was, it was like,
I remember even texting you and I was all like,
Hey, so I have the, the white rents and the pink rents
and LPC 75, but dude, they're like scary.
Like, and the rest of this facility's plants
were absolutely fucking amazing.
Yeah.
Huge moms, gorgeous, super healthy moms,
all sun grown with a supplemental DEs
on these like football field size glass houses.
Gorgeous, beautiful setup and hundreds and hundreds
and hundreds of different plants.
And the fella, I don't want to say his name
and I'm not going to say his name,
but him and I have talked for years
and he's done clones for fucking, you know,
for his whole career.
It's big clones.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And he was telling me like,
I have spent the better part of 10 years,
like just harassing, asking, collecting clones.
Moms, moms, moms.
And then he had, what was funny is I got there,
he had a whole little like section,
like this little table section dedicated to,
I want to say it was the Mindo by Rainbow
and the Skittles by Rainbow,
because the guys had did so well outdoors in Santa Cruz
with those two, those two plants that he was all like,
so we've been moving the shit out of these ones.
And I was all, hey, those are mine.
I made those.
That's fucking cool.
You know, like.
Yeah.
And then partially like some of the stuff I make
is here in California in shit weather.
People, I don't think people know
what our weather's like here sometimes.
No, I think they think it's all just like rainy,
or not rainy, sunny, perfect.
Like.
Yeah.
No, we had 116, I slaughtered a pig this year
when it was 116.
Yeah, it was bad this year.
Yeah.
It was a dead ass growing season.
Also the outdoor around this part
with there not being rain anymore is so nasty.
Yeah.
And it's covered in dirt, dust, debris.
There's been so many pesticides shot in our area
since the 30s and 40s for all the things
because we're like the agricultural fucking capital.
That dust isn't just normal dust.
No.
It's like, it's death dust.
Yeah.
It's bad.
Valley fever dust, man.
Yeah, for real.
Yeah.
But yeah, I went up there
and I just happened to be there the day
the guys were nice enough and everything like that.
You could tell they were all like,
oh, you're gonna steal our plants.
I was like, me, never.
Never.
Got them.
I'm going now.
No.
Yeah, I got them.
I'm going.
So that was what was funny too, man.
Like that was before the whole
run your life up thing was a thing.
Like they hadn't started hyping it yet.
Yeah.
They hadn't started hyping it yet.
And one of them was nice.
One of them turned nice and black,
but it looked just like gelato.
Like it was literally spinning gelato.
That's runs.
That's the runs clone.
It's just gelato 33.
Yeah.
And then there was the white runs and the pink runs
and the white runs was all right.
They tried to say it was the white
with the runs crossed together or something like that.
Seriously.
Yeah.
And then, yeah, that was me too.
Like, I don't think you guys spread anything
with the white.
I think it was just another bag seed that you found
that looked decent.
You're what's a cool white string.
Yeah.
The white.
And then, yeah, then there was the pink rats.
But at that time they had multiple fucking rats.
Yeah.
Trains like they did.
Now I don't know if they still do,
but they had the, all their gelatos, the sunset sherberts.
I don't know what Mecca Meccan are is, but they had one.
I remember being robot name and all kinds of cheating.
Yeah.
All kinds of cheetah pisses name.
Just cheetah piss, this cheetah piss, that cheetah piss this.
And it was funny.
Cause I remember you were talking about cat piss
and in a lot of your podcasts leading up to seeing this.
And a lot of people had started to go back.
Oh man, I remember the old pissy strains, you know?
And this was years back, like four or five years ago
or whatever, when we were reminiscing
about the piss strains and just so happens
that they have clones that is now cat piss and gelato.
And you're all like, yeah, but yeah.
Yeah, but cheetah, cheetah.
Cause they were much faster than.
Yeah.
Has anybody, have you smelled
if they didn't even smell like cat piss at all?
I have the cut that's going to flower right now.
I've held that cut for this fucking long.
Yeah.
And I'm finally flowering it right now.
It probably took this long to get clean.
Dude.
Oh my God.
So yeah, it's ran through its testing.
It's clean.
But I finally did, I'm doing a cheetah piss clone now
that I'm going to flower out.
I let a friend flower it before I flowered.
Did he say it was pissy at all?
It wasn't pissy at all.
It was, but it also wasn't like,
it was like a small tank grow and things like that.
But the plant was really pretty.
Like it was really pretty, but so is gelato.
And so is Sherbert.
It's a really pretty plant.
I'd love for some of their names to match up
with what's going on.
What it is.
Yeah.
It would help a lot.
Yeah.
There's no way it has cat piss.
I just don't believe it.
It looks just like every other fucking cookie plant
I've seen, like the exact same structure,
everything like that, you know, the long spheres,
the chunky little buds, you know.
I genuinely think that they just take gelato bag seeds
just of the herms and just like,
pop it and they're like, ha, cheetah piss, ha.
Let's name this after Griselda Blanco.
I've never met the woman or anything,
but I'm gonna name it after her.
Okay.
That's exactly what the fuck it is.
That's exactly what it is.
You know what it is.
Like, because everything,
all their stuff has little herms on them.
All of them have little bag seeds on them.
You find them, you grow them.
Some of them are home run, some of them are not.
Do you find the new home run?
You're all, hey, it looks like gelato,
but it has a slight variation.
Let's just say that we crossed it with something.
Yeah.
Making a home run just means making it successful on IG.
That's literally what the meaning of a home run is anymore.
That's all it is.
That's all it is.
There's so many-
Nobody's smoking it, doesn't matter.
Doesn't matter.
It's what gets hyped up on social media.
What people talk about on social media.
And that's it.
Like, I couldn't imagine.
Now they have,
oh, they have some other cookies and milk fucking stuff.
They have so much stuff, but it's all,
it looks all the same.
But I got to see like their mothership, if you will,
what comes from the mothership.
And it was rough, man.
Like, I feel bad for the people who actually go
and pay that money to buy that stuff
because there's no way those plants are clean
like without using something before it gets to you.
And they're not testing the dirty plants.
They're not testing the dirt.
They're testing clean plants.
And then saying that they have lots of pounds
of those clean plants.
But in reality, they're just sliding in
because they're not testing every bag that's brought to-
No.
To the single shop, to the market.
No, they're not testing it.
You're bringing in an eighth or a few grams,
having it tested and then telling the state,
I have 200 pounds of this.
State's okay, we want taxes on it.
And you're all like, yeah,
180 of those pounds came from a greenhouse,
but no one knows that.
It's all gone into these fancy jars and bags anyway.
And people, like, if you remember when cookies
first started getting real big
and they started getting the Mylar bags,
do you remember people on IG,
like opening up those Mylar bags on video
and like just showing all the mold
and people going to cookie stores
and in the store window,
you'd see their little clones
that they'd put out there as display
and they would just be filled with bugs
and fucking PM and in the store window.
We had no clue that they were displaying this bad as shit
because they were just so inexperienced.
Two things that reminds me of,
not to talk bad about anybody,
but High Times did a article on SWERF years ago.
They went into his grow room.
You can still find this on THC Farmer too.
They were hovered in fucking spider bites and shit.
And they were taking these closeups
where they were all like smelling the buds and stuff.
How the fuck is this a centerfold?
Yeah, High Times.
Nobody in High Times caught it.
SWERF didn't catch it.
None of them caught it.
But it was like,
it wasn't something that you like catch as a mistake.
Goddamn, you could see it every fucking where.
They were big top tits in there.
You know?
They weren't even that like,
I remember the pictures not even being that like detailed
and you could still see the PM and spider bites.
And it was a different time, a different era,
a bygone era, but geez.
What spider mites look like on leaves.
If you were a grower, especially from California.
That was the spider bites and a caterpillar damage.
Like for outdoor growers.
It's like, you know what to do.
You know what you're going to be dealing with.
But I remember that article and looking at those plants
and I was all, this is like, this is real life.
Like this is like, who works there?
Have you guys ever seen cannabis?
Like, does this look normal to you?
And then, so there was that one.
Thank God.
We were just, I had another one that was the second one
that I wanted to bring up and now I can't remember what.
Oh, when they were asking Berner at beginning,
what was cookies?
And he was all, oh, it's F1.
Like F1 was a fighter jet strain.
Yeah, that was horrible.
Yeah.
And that should have told people right then
that it was just some sort of bag seed stuff
that they had got from the bay at the time.
Yeah.
There was so much purple weed in the bay at the time,
whether it was granddaddy or Urkel or the SR 71.
And I've seen so many mutants in Urkel crossing
and deep Urkel lines where it looks like OGKB
and OGKB looks like Urkel
because they both have the slow trade
and they can get the weird leaf patterns.
And then, so I could imagine there was a herm with,
maybe there was a herm with an OG or a herm with an Urkel
and they got a bag of Urkel and they're all like,
hey, let's start growing.
And the OG hermed in a grow room
and threw some pollen on the Urkel.
And now you have this plant that looks, could be cookies.
I don't know, the story could be different,
but I could imagine that these were the things
and they found a couple of pounds or ounces or whatever
that had a few seeds in them.
They decided to become growers and that's their F1.
Their F1 was the first generation bag seeds.
They weren't sure if F1 was a cross to DERB
or if F1 was part of DERB,
or if it was a Formula One sports car or airplane.
There's no, that's such a weird plant to pick, the DERB.
It was an odd plant to pick.
Because I've never, ever seen anything come out
of any cookie cross that resembles DERB at all, ever.
No, I don't think they knew.
I think they pulled the name out of the sky
of the popular strain.
And they didn't know they were attaching
a South African sativa to this plant.
That would 100% show up.
Because I think they were, I can't remember exactly,
but I wanna say it was like granddaddy or cherry pie
with a Florida OG and DERB and poison.
Something along that mixture.
Like cherry pie was supposed to be one hybrid
and then cookies was supposed to be another hybrid.
And one had GDP and one didn't, if I remember correctly.
Or one had DERB and one didn't, something stupid.
And then I remember cherry pie before the cookie fiasco,
like the cookie stuff happened.
I remember having cherry pie and I got it
from friends at Dark Heart.
And guess where we're going now?
The Dark Heart story.
The Dark Heart Road, the dark, dark road
of Dark Heart Nursery.
Nursery.
Oh God.
So yeah, so I remember I had friends
that were the growers, if you will.
They had a fancy name for them.
Like how you have baristas that make coffee.
But they're like, you're making a coffee.
Like when I worked at the coffee shop,
we weren't labeled a barista.
I just-
You're a cotton makers.
Yeah, and fucking would make you a sandwich and shit too.
If you needed it.
I wasn't an artist.
I wasn't a fucking sandwich artist.
Yeah.
You should have been.
Yeah, I should have been.
I fucking should have been.
I could have drew on it with my Dick Twinkie.
Sandwich artistry, Dick Twinkie.
God damn.
You want a Dick Twinkie with cheese, baby girl?
With cheese?
With cheese?
Con queso?
All right, so Dark Heart Nursery.
So the cherry pie, I do want to get a little bit into that.
So before cookies came to prevalence, there was cherry pie.
It was around.
And then Berner's name got attached to it somehow.
It wasn't like cookies cherry pie.
This plant was just called fucking cherry pie.
Like that's what it was called.
It was a nice plant.
It really was.
It had like a menthol thing going on
with like a berry thing going on, turned purple.
Had a nice look to it, but that's it.
So the cherry pie was around, Dark Heart had it.
And then Dark Heart, and then they had another one
they called Three Kings.
I don't know if people remember that.
Yeah, yeah.
It was, I think it was like a sour OG bubba
or something like that.
Yeah, another one that they tried to say
ended up coming from later known as the cookie family.
So cherry pie and the Three Kings were supposedly
those guys' like first rendezvous with cloning.
But that was before they were, you know,
this and that and the other.
I guess they were well-known in the Bay at the time already
because the rap scene and things like that.
But they weren't well-known in the cannabis scene.
So, and I had both of those, the Three Kings was,
I would still grow cherry pie.
I would definitely.
Did this pop up by the way?
Yeah, we're just.
So these are Lumpy's old pictures of cherry pie.
They're some of my favorite pictures,
the earliest ones that I saw.
Just so people can get an idea of the plant
we're talking about.
Of what we're talking about.
And that's really-
This is from Lump Status.
Yeah, Lump Status, yeah.
And that's cherry pie.
Like that is cherry pie.
And the fun part about cherry pie is it did have
this menthol, very cherry-y thing
on the finishing touch of it.
I don't know, but that was like that whole pastry name.
Right?
That kind of started like, well, we had cherry pie.
Why don't we name this Girl Scout Cookies?
You know?
That started the pastry craze for those knuckleheads.
Yep.
Yeah.
So Dark Heart Nursery.
Dark Heart, for the people who aren't from the area,
they were putting clones at all of our medical dispensaries.
Harbor Side.
After Blue Sky Cafe.
Or Blue Sky.
Blue Sky Cafe SR71.
Yeah, after Blue Sky was like the place.
There was a place there and there was a place in Santa Cruz
that had the blue dot shit like that.
Oh, yeah.
What was the blue dot one?
Do you remember the Santa Cruz place, right?
They had blue dot.
Yeah, I remember.
Not Progressive, that was down South.
It was like, yeah, yeah.
But they had these two shops and like literally
at Blue Sky and the one in Santa Cruz.
Berkeley's Patient?
No, that's a different one.
That's Berkeley.
Berkeley's Patient was another one though that you would,
these places would get like a few thousand clones.
That was it.
And they would already, if you were late,
there would be lines.
I remember going at like 11 o'clock at night,
staying in a parking lot with a buddy
because there was a plant I wanted, you know?
And it never was,
it was hard finding fucking clones back then.
Yeah.
It was hard finding clones, man.
Sourcing real, legit clones from someone you knew
that like knew their shit.
Yeah, it was impossible.
It was super hard.
That's where I sourced like a sour grapes cup from.
And that's where I got Grape Stomper from, which,
that's where, yeah, Blue Sky.
That's where the SCDC cut was being sold out.
Yeah, the Strawberry Cob Deep Chunk
that ended up being an FGOE Deep Chunk.
And the AK-47, the White Widow, the Urkel, the SR-71,
that Blue Sky was responsible for a lot of stuff.
But it was really hard to get fucking clones there.
And plus they'd only let you buy like five at a time
or some weirdo shit.
Yeah, there was a limit.
Yeah, so more people could get them.
So anyways.
After those places got like fucked,
like those places got ran out, they shut them down.
The city was constantly after them.
Harborside really took off.
Oh, Harborside.
Harborside, yeah.
Steve D'Angelo, little-
I think he was learning how to pad pockets
before other people were.
Yeah.
Like, I think Steve was learning how to like juggle
certain things, aspects of-
Corporate people's balls in their mouth.
Yes, exactly.
He was super good at that.
Yeah, fucking cleaning them like golf balls.
Yeah.
One by one.
And he was getting these places shut down,
but he was able to stay open.
And that's what brought Harborside to like make a thing.
And I now get-
Oh yeah, and their TV show
and all that bullshit that happened.
Yes, God, that's the-
Have you seen lately that he's been like railing
against Prop 64, even though he's just one of the people
that pushed it through?
Well, because he got ran out.
He got ran out.
Yeah, because he realized,
I'm not rich enough to compete with the rich people
that I put in power.
That's all this like, oh, I'm a millionaire.
They're billionaires.
They just told me to fuck off.
For an elbow smash.
Yeah, oh my God.
And the 64, I was telling everyone, please vote no on 64.
It's going to ruin everything.
Everything for everyone.
You're not going to get cheaper cannabis.
You're gonna get worse cannabis at a higher price.
They're going to crack this down.
I mean, they were just using the National Guard last year
to eradicate out there cannabis growths in California
in a legal state.
I thought we were a legal state,
but they were eradicating them.
And they weren't going after the cartel grows.
No, no, they were using it to go after mom and pops.
Yes, they were going-
Families.
Dude, do you know how many times I've had to deal
with fucking code enforcement?
Oh yeah.
Holy shit.
Just finally, the Sergeant of the Police Department,
who owns the city, he finally said,
I'm taking your name off the list so they stop harassing you.
And that was all, thanks, man.
Like after years.
So-
Thanks, piggy.
Yeah, anyhow.
So Dark Heart Nursery sort of started to come in along
with Harborside.
So Dark Heart was filling Harborside's shells with clones.
And at one time they were very short.
Like they had 10 straight.
They had Blackberry.
They had the Cherry Pie, the Three Kings,
you know, and a White Widow.
They had this one called a Chocolate Hashberry.
That was the Purple Caper things.
And that's kind of how I got offered some stuff
from Dark Heart because they were looking
for breeders at the time.
Yeah.
And for house projects.
I remember, yeah.
Basically wanting me to be an employee
and anything I made was theirs.
Yeah.
So I would just work on their time in essence,
but for my grow.
Yeah.
And give them all my best stuff.
Yeah.
Sounds like a plan.
Yeah.
Not like a per cut sale percentage or like.
That sounds like how like the Dutch used to do it.
Yeah.
You can make us Femme seeds.
Just send us the seeds.
We'll send you some money later.
Yeah.
We'll send you money later.
I was serious.
Hey, we'll get to you.
We'll get to you sometime.
So Dark Heart had like a monopoly on clones, like legit.
And there was little guys who were still trying to compete
and they were doing fine,
but they had to find specific things
that Dark Heart didn't monopolize.
Yes.
And then you have these 10 inch fucking beast clones
with these huge stems.
You could tell that the plant had been blasted
with God knows what.
So explode with growth.
Yeah.
Super thrive, nonstop.
Yeah.
Just look, you're all like super steroids, nonstop.
Super fucking carcinogens.
Yeah.
Like, oh, you guys are just, just eh, whatever.
It's not getting tested.
It's gonna be fine.
It's going to the home grower.
It's not gonna get fucking tested.
Who cares what's in there.
Who cares that I shot the shit out of it
with the dirtiest of dirt.
So anyhow, my friends who all have words
for Dark Heart quit in the past five, six years.
So let's get to this point.
Stardog, Dark Heart had to cut a Stardog.
A friend of mine went and bought a thousand Stardog cuts.
It was, I think he actually did buy a thousand.
It was 500 per grow.
And he calls me about day 40 or so.
And he's like, hey, can you come and look at my plants?
He was all, something's wrong.
So I go over and I look and it would be like pretty plant,
plant that looks like pretty plant without resin,
without structure, like without density, just puffballs.
Pretty plant, puffball, no resin.
Pretty plant, puffball, no resin.
Puffball, no resin plants also started throwing
out little banana herbs, like just little,
little pollen bags.
The other ones didn't.
Now you could tell that they were the same plant.
It wasn't mislabeled.
These were the same plant,
but they weren't off of the same mom, clearly.
The healthy plants probably came from one mom
and puffball plants came from another mom.
So-
You know what I've been learning from the HPLV,
whatever the fuck it's called,
is that some moms, like you can take clones
from the top part and it won't be as like,
it won't have as high of a viroid count.
And then you take it from the bottom.
So you can take them to the same exact plant
and have different viral loads.
Virus load.
Yeah, you can have different viral loads.
And we actually seen that with a thousand plants,
we actually could see this.
Now, mind you, this was way before this was a thing.
This was way before anyone spoke.
We called it dudding.
We called it fucking dudding.
You had full duds, half duds.
That plant looks pretty fucking good.
And then-
That's kind of dudded, a little dudded.
Yeah.
Like how is that?
You start thinking like, okay,
these plants are all getting the same thing.
These plants would be on the same fucking table.
Literally the same table, flood to drain.
That's how they grew.
And everybody had,
I was pulling plants up to check root systems,
big, white, healthy root systems,
healthy plants, leaves were healthy.
pH is right.
Everything seems right.
Fucking plants wrecked.
And I couldn't figure it out.
So I start contacting Dark Heart and telling them about it.
And I was like, hey,
we're seeing a lot of dudding plants,
like from the Stardog.
They ended up pulling Stardog from the menu.
They did.
But they never wanted to admit to me
that these plants were dudding.
So they sold millions of clones,
millions of clones.
Yeah.
People were buying thousands at a time
and tens of thousands of people were buying these.
So how did HPLV explode?
Well, Dark Heart Nursery.
So everybody who has a hip new strain,
Dark Heart started pulling in every fucking hip new strain.
When glue hit the scene, Dark Heart had it.
Blue Dream hit the scene, Dark Heart had it.
When fucking cookies hit the scene,
Sherbert hit the scene.
Anything that hit the scene that was popular,
they were getting rid of the old stuff,
like Blackberry, Rump.
They had fucking a legit Romulan cup.
They had a legit Romulan cup that they got rid of.
They got rid of it for cookies.
Oh yeah, if it's not in demand,
of course you're gonna take cookies.
Holy shit, that Rom, dude, for real.
And, but the shallow thinking process of these companies,
you're like, okay,
so Blue Dream was one of the most popular plants
explode onto the scene that I had actually seen, right?
Every outdoor grower grew it.
The problem was,
is that not everybody had the real Blue Dream cut.
People were getting seed, people were getting,
yes, things like that.
And then Blue Dream, people are all,
oh, it's not that good, and I'm a bull fucking shit.
I still pull out my Blue Dream cut every now and then
and just fuck people over.
I don't know what that is.
I was like, it's fucking Blue Dream.
You guys just got shitty Blue Dream.
The same thing happened with Gorilla Glue,
the exact same fucking thing.
The glue cut that came from,
I almost said his real name.
Where did he go?
Josie, thank you.
Yeah, Josie and Lone Waddy.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Rest in peace, brothers.
Yeah, Josie sent me glue.
And it's funny how far back Josie and I actually go.
And it was before he, his screen picture,
his little avatar on the site was of Josie Wells,
but his name wasn't.
Yeah.
And then his name became his avatar and things like that.
Anyways, long story.
Yeah.
He was so nice to me.
Like, he was just a really, really-
Josie was a sweetheart.
Lone Waddy, I didn't really know Lone,
but Josie was real sweet.
I know CSI had a project going with him at the end.
I had a project going with him at the end,
and he was always so fricking cool.
I still have some of his seeds
that were like unlabeled projects with like,
remember when Uzbekistan came out?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Uzbekistan, yes, but the pre-Sov, whatever, pre-Sov.
Yeah, pre-Soviet,
because when the Soviets came in,
the weed went bad somehow.
So he was working with a few things
and he sent me some stuff, you know?
And the pre-Soviet hype thing, whatever,
I don't know what that plant is,
but he must've liked it to breed with it.
There's like nine different plants
called pre-Soviet Afghani.
Yeah, yeah.
So anyways, he sent me a bunch of stuff.
He sent me some,
he called it like cherry fuel or cherry gas or something,
because he knew I was a cherry fan.
A few other things.
So, but that's what was going on.
A lot of those plants got watered down
because of people getting bag seeds and growing it
and saying it's glue for, or it's Blue Dream.
Specifically with Blue Dream,
I remember when it blew up,
there was a company called Emerald Triangle Seeds,
which I remember in the Emerald Triangle,
people didn't like them because they weren't,
they weren't from the Emerald Triangle,
they just used the name.
Yeah, it was like a Spanish company.
It was.
Mass producing a blueberry haze in seed form.
Yeah.
And then Humboldt Seed Organization,
I believe sold the same exact seeds.
They did.
I don't wanna, don't quote me.
They at least sold a Blue Dream
that was not the same Blue Dream,
their own creation, if not the same exact seeds
that Emerald Triangle were selling under their label.
The Humboldt Seed Org, when they first came in too,
I had so many friends telling me that they were bad,
for lack of other words, they weren't from this place,
they didn't have these.
That was the, that's Emerald Triangle Seed.
That was Emerald Triangle.
Yeah.
Okay, okay, okay, okay.
I got those two mixed up then.
Yeah, I used to do all the time
because they both released Blue Dream.
Yeah, they both had the Blue Dream.
That's who it was then, Emerald Triangle.
And I had friends who were just like,
this is horseshit and they're spreading horseshit.
So back to Dark Heart, Dark Heart spread HPLV.
I don't know how to really explain
the epicenter that they caused.
It would be like-
That's very hard to say.
In a viral situation,
let's just like kind of take COVID for example, right?
So-
Are we allowed to say that word?
I don't know if we're allowed to say that.
I don't think so.
Well, there's, yeah, I'm not gonna use the 19 part.
So I'll just use the COVID name.
Let's say a virus, let's say a-
A viroid.
A new virus.
A viroid.
A new viroid hits at humans.
And there's an epicenter of that, right?
And there's a thousand people who live there.
Those, all those thousand people move to a new state.
Yep.
And that's kind of what Dark Heart did
because when they did this,
it was at the, like this new peak of the internet.
The new peak of clone sharing.
The new peak of all these seeds being made.
New peak of clone internet sales too.
Of clone internet sales.
People were going to Dark Heart,
picking up a tray of clones,
taking them on their Instagram page
and immediately moving them.
And 10 times in their money.
Yeah.
At least.
At 10 times in their money.
All over the country.
And then, dude, I know of people
who have sent them to other countries.
Oh yeah.
So, and the same fucking cuts.
So, that virus shouldn't have spread
at the speed it spread through our industry
without assistance, without something happening.
The best part was that after everybody figured out,
oh shit, Dark Heart might've been the epicenter
for this stuff.
Yep.
Then they're like, ha, we got a solution.
Yeah.
We will sell you a cure for these things.
A cure for these.
But they never said that they were the reason
for the season, you know.
No.
That all this is happening.
But they did say, we will sell you a cure.
And it is the real cure for HPV.
And guess what?
It didn't work.
It didn't work.
It didn't work.
Also, Dark Heart's clones dried up
at these shops in Harborside for a few months.
Yeah.
They were gone.
Dark Heart cuts and other,
that's when like Purple City Genetics
sort of kind of like blew up
because they were able to like fill shelves
and these other companies.
Yeah, fill out these orders.
Yep.
And all of a sudden Dark Heart comes back
and what they did, they knew they had sickness.
So, they just, they took the,
God, I was just talking to you about it,
like before we came on.
So, they, and now I'm drawing the blank
on whether the tissue culture.
So, they tissue cultured everything,
re-brought it along, built it back up.
I'm assuming that they were probably buying clones
and selling clones so they could keep their business going.
I'm sure.
Or, you know what I'm saying?
Yeah, a lot of people do that.
Or they were shutting down one facility to clean it
while they were still selling nasties over here.
And then this facility was back up and running
with new clean cuts from the tissue culture.
And then they shut down the others.
The thing we know about tissue culture,
it's so hit or miss on whether they'll get that.
Like, even if they do Maristem culture,
they try to not get any of that.
I forgot what they call it.
It has to do with their vascular tissue.
But to make sure none of that gets along,
goes along with the Maristem is really hard
and really unpredictable until it's grown out.
It is.
You don't know until you grow it out.
Yeah.
And you don't.
I have a friend on Instagram
and that's what he's doing right now.
He does a ton of tissue culture and super smart kid.
Super fucking, God, man.
Some of you guys are really fucking smart.
Some of us older dudes, our brains aren't like yours.
We're slow, dude.
We're done too many drugs.
Dude, we're so much fucking slower than you guys.
So that's why I've done so much LSD.
So many drugs.
So, and if, so like sometimes I'll stumble on my words
and it's not because I don't know what I'm like trying
to say, it's because my brain and my mouth,
they're not like communicating properly.
He did have a part of his colon removed, if you remember.
I did.
And that was actually between the brain and the mouth.
And I've had seizures.
The seizures really fucked my brain.
Yeah, the seizures really fucked that pathway.
What's my excuse?
I haven't had a seizure yet, but I'm pretty brain damaged.
Yeah, just drugs.
So I did those too, but with also the other good stuff.
So he was telling me about his tissue culturing
and that some of them they can get and they're clean.
The plants are come out clean.
So he was really excited.
And then later on, they found traces of the virus
in the plant.
And it's like, how do we go about this?
Will that virus load stay as a trace
or is that virus load going to grow as the plant grows?
I think they said it takes like two years of testing
and constant testing to make sure it isn't showing up
in the Maristan culture.
Yep, and that was what was so scary is like
he was telling me, it's like, once you get it,
it's like you have it.
Oh yeah.
It's like herpes.
Yeah.
Like you always, now your herpes can be like unnoticeable
or you can be one of the ones that have like the big herpes
or the herpes, you know, the herpes, yeah,
the Twinkie dick herpes where it's always dripping.
Where your Twinkie dick's just dripping up the sky.
So, but that's what's fun, man, about,
not Twinkie dick herpes, but like knowing people
and like actually putting myself out there more
is like meeting more people, like intelligent people
that share knowledge and they share,
I'm good at certain things.
They're good at certain things and they can, you know,
we can kind of communicate and stuff.
And I do think that there is a cure for it.
I hope we find it.
We've all been working on certain things
and certain things are showing promise.
Yeah, God, I hope it works.
It's right now, we have a plant that had it
and now when we had it tested, it doesn't.
So we'll see.
It's like you said, it's gonna be a couple of years
before I actually get to talk about it really,
but we'll see.
Yeah.
It'll break my heart after it's been a year-ish.
And it pops back up.
It's possible though.
It's going, yeah.
And it will absolutely just be a fucking gut punch,
but we'll see where it's at.
And it was with a spray.
That was the important part.
Like we sprayed the plants.
It wasn't like, it's things that you can do at home.
Yeah, you didn't have to inject it into a specific,
into a phloem or xylem or any of that stuff.
It was a spray.
Yeah, we put it into the roots
and we put it onto the entire plant and it tested clean.
And I was, the first thing was,
is seeing that the plant grew resin.
Yeah.
And that was like, holy shit.
Like that was a first start, right?
Yeah.
Yes, and then the plant looked like
what it was supposed to look like.
And then the flowers look like
what it's supposed to look like.
And everything was, now I didn't smoke the flowers.
Yeah, you didn't.
I didn't smoke the flowers, but I don't,
humans ingest this, that thing that we use.
So, I mean, people actually take it as an medicine.
But the combustibility, I don't know.
Like, we can eat things, but if you smoke it,
it's probably not gonna be super healthy for you.
Yeah, a lot of cancer stuff
just comes from the combustion of certain things
and whatnot.
Yep, so that's where we're at with that.
But I think-
That's exciting.
It's exciting, it is, it's pretty cool.
So yeah, oh God, so we went with the cookie stuff.
Don't buy their flowers, good Lord.
Just get away from that.
We don't need that anymore.
The gelato, times gelato in bread cookies.
We're losing so much-
Bottlenecking.
Because of it, bottlenecking.
I don't even really wanna call it like bottlenecking.
I've always-
Bottlenecking is like breeding
and intentionally done usually,
but this is just idiot.
It's like Washington apples, man.
When we were kids, this is always my analogy
for what's going on in cannabis.
When we were young,
Washington apples were fucking delicious.
They were kind of ugly, they were off a little bit
and like oblong with knots and stuff,
but they were crispy, they were juicy.
They were all, oh my God, it tastes like apple.
Now you go get a red, delicious apple
and it tastes like wet foam.
And it was because they bred for looks on the table.
More than they bred for flavor.
Oh yeah, and packaging and transport and all that crap.
Have you seen the square watermelons,
the Chinese bread for packing and shipping?
They just have no flavor at all, but they're square.
So you can ship them easier
and they pack into boxes easier.
Who cares if they don't taste good?
I mean, they're square.
So they ship.
God, dude.
So, and that's my concern with the cannabis
is like every breeder,
it's not like, okay, you bred something with gelato
or you bred something with it.
No, no, you're taking Rutz, you're taking gelato,
you're taking Sherbert and you're reversing it
to more Rutz and gelato and Sherbert.
And then somebody else is finding clones from those
and they're reversing it
to more Rutz and gelato and Sherbert.
So Purple Punch really did a fucking number on the scene.
There's so many people who bred with Punch
and so many plants look like Punch and taste like it.
And I'm not shit talking Purple Punch, I'll smoke it.
Doesn't, it's, I don't mind the flavor.
I don't need to get blown the fuck out.
And that plant does me fine.
Some people need higher strength
and I do that one does me fine.
And then, but basically what we're getting down to
is gelato Purple Punch.
Yeah.
I mean, I don't, to be honest,
I rarely even see Purple Punch stuff anymore.
Like that was such a small wave.
And it seemed like for two years,
everybody hit everything to punch.
And then now it's just back to gelato or cookie.
I shouldn't say gelato.
It's back to cookies with different names.
Different names.
Cookies, whether it's Sherbert, gelato, fucking pita piss,
whatever you're gonna call it.
They're all the fucking same thing with it.
It's all cookies to me.
Like it's all the same base genetics.
And all has a similar look.
They're different expressions of the same exact genetics.
And the more people breed them back to each other,
even if it's, they're not intentionally breeding,
trying to inbreed for like uniformity.
Yeah.
That's what's gonna happen.
That's what happens.
And a lot of recesses are gonna happen too.
So they aren't necessarily looking for.
No, they're not.
And it's like, do you remember
when cookies first came, right?
And it was that little rabbit turd looking plant.
It was like this little black plant
with like these little tiny buds.
And I remember somebody sent me that cut.
And I was super curious about it because he was weird.
Yeah.
It looks fucking weird.
And I was always about the oddities.
That's why I like duck foot and shit was my thing.
And I got it and I grew it.
And it was like, oh yeah, that's, that was pretty cool.
It's an interesting plant.
I could never really grow it though,
because it's so light.
Like it's not, it wasn't good enough quality
to like mass produce it,
to get like top tier money in my head.
That's what I was thinking.
But then when I put it on the market
and then I told people, oh no, it's Girl Scout cookies.
And at the time, that's when it first started to go.
People started telling me stories about, oh my God,
it's not like eating a Girl Scout cookie,
but it's like the box, you know,
like after the cookies are gone and you smell the box,
I'm like cardboard?
A cardboard?
It smells like fucking cardboard.
Like, are you telling me my weed smells like cardboard?
I'm just like, what the fuck is wrong with you?
And then there was this new one, the second one,
the animal cookies.
Oh, the forum.
Yeah, the forum cut.
And that one had like a little more chunk to it.
Yeah.
And then the animal cookies.
I remember when animal cookies came out
and these two, these two.
Was it 08, 07?
No, it was, it was 2010, 09, right in there.
Yeah, 9, 10, somewhere.
They always put the 09 label on it,
but I didn't see anything about it until 2010.
And the animal cookies.
And these two dudes went and did a YouTube review on it.
And they were like, it tastes just like animal crackers,
bro, do you smell that?
And everybody's just like, oh my God,
I love the smell of animal cookies.
I love that.
Yeah, and then they all smelled it and were like,
man, it does smell like animal cookies.
And I'm like, it smells like gas.
It's like, oh geez, what are you talking about?
It's that whole,
psychosomatic.
You go back thinking something
and you find what you're looking for, you know?
And then that one too, the animal cookies.
There were these stories about like,
oh, it was this OG with Girl Scout cookies.
Oh, the pirate knee cookie.
Yeah, this one and this one.
And people started trying to take credit
that they were like, oh yeah, I created that.
Yeah, I guess mine.
I created that.
And back then it was really easy to pass shit off
because everybody was new to the internet,
not the internet, but these websites.
So like all these cannabis websites
just started popping up, popping up, popping up,
like tons of them.
And you could just go in there
and have a picture of something you grew and say,
oh, I created this.
Yeah.
I remember when cookies came out,
I was the first one to put out in seed form.
And shortly thereafter, Swerve started selling cookies
and people were punking him
because he was just like relabeling SFV
or some other OG hybrid as cookies and selling it.
And then BC Bud Depot also did the same thing.
And people were growing up, their shit was just awful.
It wasn't even related to OG.
It was just garbage.
Oh my God. Garbage.
Yeah.
So fucking God Bud, Jesus Christ.
The perps in God Bud.
I wish that never happened
because that company's fucked shit up for like 10 years.
Yeah. And they fucked shit up for other people.
Like God Bud was from Jordan of the Islands.
He did good with that.
They take the name, slap it on their shit
and just like whatever seeds we got right now
is what you get.
If people don't know that about BC Bud Depot,
like, I mean, it's one of the main advertisers
that's been on high times for many years.
Just be smart about what you're buying.
It's a very well-known thing
that's been going on for a long time.
So just pay attention, you know,
know what you're buying, know your breeder,
ask your breeder questions.
Ask your breeder questions.
Yeah. And that's the thing.
Like, how are you going to ask a breeder
at BC Bud Depot questions?
Yeah. Good luck.
Good luck.
You're going to get a receptionist
that responds back to your fucking email.
That's all like, buy our seeds.
They're good.
I mean, do people, and here's my question too.
Do people really still buy their seeds
with all the breeders out now?
Like, I don't know.
I don't, I don't, like how do they exist?
Like how do they fucking exist?
They capture all the new people,
just like Cali Connection.
Like anybody that's been around for, you know,
more than five years knows their gig
and like their gimmick and they don't buy it.
But there's a constant influx of new buyers constantly.
And that's what these companies rely on.
They rely on.
They rely on you not knowing,
not having done the research, not knowing.
Like if you're going to buy cookies from them,
they know that you probably have never fucking grown cookies.
You don't even know what it looks like.
So it doesn't matter.
Yeah, it is.
Dude, I remember when I said the story
about when I started doing like these huge groves
up in a small town called Squaw Valley
and the ones up at Three Rivers.
It was funny because we had talked about somebody else
who was talking about stuff
that we were getting out of Three Rivers.
Yeah, yeah.
And I was like, yeah, I was producing tons of shit
out of Three Rivers.
Anyways, so the guy that was up there who owned the land
had bought like thousands of dollars worth of seeds,
legitimately like spent so much fucking.
I think he ended up putting like 15, 16 grand in the seeds
when I went up there to,
they had grown the year before
and got eight pounds of the worst garbage ever.
And they grew like thousands of plants.
So they asked me to come up and I was like, yeah, man,
I will make this, I'll do a thousand pound of grain,
I promise, it'll happen.
So he pulls out all these seeds he bought
and PPP, remember that purple power plant?
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah.
And there's pure power plants.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
PPP.
Yeah, and then he had BC Bud Depot's blueberry.
All right.
BC Bud Depot's God Bud's.
Ooh.
BC Bud Depot's the perps.
And God, they had another one that was God Bud
and something mixed together.
So he had already popped the seeds.
So they were already little plants.
So I had taken, at the time I was growing a lot
of this plant that we were calling a white skunk
or white rhino, white buds.
And I literally just filled up,
there was a mountain and it ran downhill.
So I started at the top and we just did rows going down
so gravity could water and just make little ditches
with little offshoots to each stump.
And we had like 300 gallon res, 300 gallon res,
300 gallon res, fill up the nutrients, turn them on.
And it would just shoot down the pipes
into the little shoots that the guys made.
And as they ran down, they would offshoot to each plant.
So it was no plastic, no anything.
It was just dirt.
You know what I mean?
Growing thousands of plants is fucking rough back then
especially when it's you and like two other dudes.
You know, you're all like, oh shit.
So anyways, he wanted to grow these.
So there was a place over by the old horse corral
that didn't have anything in it.
It was a nice square.
So I went over and planted all of the seeds
in that horse corral.
The power plant, when he called it purple power plant
and it was purple.
I don't know if pure power plant turns purple
but that company could have had multiple things, right?
Sure.
And it was the weirdest little plant, but it was whatever.
But every one of their blueberries were full blown herbs.
Every single one.
Every single one was full blown herb.
One of them was one of the best blueberry smells
I've ever smelled.
Like back in Green River State blueberry,
like legitimate blueberry.
But they had more fucking herb balls on it
than you could ever imagine.
So you're like, the smells great, but dude, there's like
half of it is balls.
Like, so then the God bud was it, they were all just shit.
There was nothing.
I don't know what it was.
It wasn't the pictures that they used online.
Who knows?
It was literally old fucking Dutch shit.
Not even good Dutch stuff.
Like Dutch shit.
Just whatever they had.
Yeah.
And then the perps.
So the perps was, we had one of them that was different.
It was like a grape jelly.
But the buds were small and airy.
So it wasn't something that you'd want to grow,
but there was something in there that gave it
like a great jelly smell.
Like they had something at the time that made it perps.
You know, I don't know what the fuck they were using.
But that was kind of like when I was like to show him like,
hey buddy, you can't just like go into High Times Magazine
and like, you know, this company and this company,
they're paying a lot of money to be in that magazine.
They're not in that magazine because they're cool or good.
They didn't earn their spot.
Yeah. Out of accolades.
Exactly.
It's like, what was the other one?
The fucking-
Vancouver Island.
Yeah. Vancouver Island Seed Show.
Yeah. Fucking awful.
I call it.
But yeah, I actually bought those and ran them.
That's incredible.
I had already at that point seen BC Bud Deep Co. Trash.
I do still, I did order seeds a couple of times.
Like when I had to have the little paper
and mark my little thing down and put a money order in.
But it was like a haze strain
and I got some stuff from Sani.
That was later though.
But I had got a couple of different hazes.
I still have one.
The Garbage Barge,
Buruandi, Burandi?
Bu-ru-randi.
It's a-
Burandi?
It's like the old Sinsi Seed Bank.
They ended up changing the name.
I don't know.
But it was called Burandi
and I believe it became like Sweet Tooth
or Blockhead later on in life.
God damn it.
I'll have to send you the-
Yeah, yeah.
I'll send you a picture of it.
But it's in the one that I did with Garbage Barge.
God damn it, man.
This was a song about the younger ones, the brains.
The brains.
The brains and the brain damages.
But I'm pretty sure it's what ended up becoming
either Sweet Tooth or Blockhead.
There was two different strains.
Probably Blockhead.
Blockhead's like a Project 19 cross
and it's just some weird like African sativa
how you build it of some sort.
Yeah.
So it was probably Blockhead.
I know it was one of those two,
but it was Bu-ru-randi or something.
It was from the region that they had got the seeds from.
And that was like the first pack of seeds I ever ordered
was those.
I don't even remember why I wanted those.
That specific one.
Yeah, what pulled you into that?
I remember I had-
I wanted to order that one for $12.
I remember ordering like some canapahagen.
They put out something called Le Chais at one time.
It was like a Lesotho haze.
And I remember ordering it and thinking,
God, it's gonna be bomb.
And I remember getting it and thinking, why did I?
Why did I order this?
Like a South African Lesotho in a haze?
It's gonna be 25 weeks.
What am I doing?
Let me grow this for my entire year.
Why did I think that that was gonna be something for me?
Yeah.
That's why I think it's funny
that I see a lot of these projects now
from guys who are just like trying to get their name
onto the scene.
And a lot of it, they're trying to say,
it's like, oh, this African haze or this Thai strain
or this, oh God, Vietnamese strain or whatever.
And some of them that you see are legitimately sativa.
Some of them look like it.
And then you see some of them that look like fucking cookies
and you're all.
Like Caps Columbian.
Like when he said his nine week Columbian,
I was like, whoa.
Or I forgot he also had a land race Japanese plant.
And I was like, mm-hmm.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He's always been super fucking nice to me.
Like we message and email and stuff.
But Mac isn't any of those things.
I can remake Mac from Colorado flow,
super lemon haze and like a few other things.
It's the lemon part that constantly shows up
in it's off projects, it's breathing projects.
And then I've known Jaws or I since Kanazon.
Yeah.
He was my first troll.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He's really bad at trolling,
but he has like all these alien cookie candy,
candy cookie, aliens, alien rocks
and all these different strains.
And I could imagine that and lemon haze type
or I don't even know if it's like pure lemon haze.
There was that really soft lemon plant
that was going around right,
couple of years before that came out,
before Mac came out.
And I remember growing it and I was like, wow,
that's really interesting the way it looked
because it had these puffier buds,
but they kind of looked like how SCDC looks like.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
It's not like a sativa.
Like it was like almost like Northern lights,
like it has a structure to it,
but had this lemony zestiness to it,
which I still don't know what the plant was.
Like I was given the plant and they were like,
I don't know what it is.
And I was really intrigued by it.
Super resonated.
I mean, all right, erase all that.
Imagine purple punch with lemon.
Gotcha.
Instead, that's what it was.
Not as resonated as purple punch,
but for the time fucking resonated.
And it wasn't as powdery of a resin as purple punch.
There was a little more of an oil stickiness to it,
but it had a soft, like not like a lemon chemical,
like a lemon peel, like a sweet,
like a Meyer lemon type thing.
It was faint.
It was faint, but it was there.
And I grew it for a while.
And I was like, I could like, you wanted to smoke it.
Like, cause like that flavor, you're like,
God damn, you'd want to put joints out halfway
so you could smoke it again.
Yeah.
Not the half out joint.
That joint got thrown away cause I'm terrible at doing that.
I like joints, so I'm having them if it gets thrown out.
And then I'm all like, I want a new fresh green one.
I don't want that other shit that's been fucking smoked.
I just smoke that shit till it's gone.
But I am such a priss now.
It's like, no, I only want good fresh green shit.
That's it.
I want all the fresh turps right now.
Have you seen the VripTech thing that I used?
Did I show that to you?
The fucking, it looks like an anal torture device,
but it's a glass probe that heats
and it connects to a bowl and it has like holes on the side.
So when you suck it, you're sucking air down
through this like heat vortex that goes into the bowl
into a bong.
So you can actually like, you hit a bong of vapor.
It's amazing.
That's awesome.
You can get some of the most amazing,
like a lot of the turps that normally you wouldn't get
through vaporization or combustion for whatever reason,
because you can dial it in so perfect.
Like you can get so many different flavors
that you normally wouldn't expect it to be
in a bud that you smell.
And it's pretty phenomenal.
I don't think they make them anymore,
but they should if they don't.
I know when I first started to like not put fire
on the bowl and like keep my lighter up high
and like, like melt.
Trying to use the heat from it.
Yeah.
And that was the first like time,
like I was young when I started learning that.
That was like the first time where I was like,
holy shit, like that tastes way fucking different.
Back then it was brick weed.
Yeah, of course.
I wish people could see some of the good brick weed.
Holy shit.
There was some that would come in uncompressed
that was really nice every once in a while.
The big fucking buds.
My dad had, so my dad would go to Mexico
and bring in hundreds of keys
and they would all be labeled in different colors.
I don't know if I've said the story,
but I'm gonna say it anyway.
Yeah, go ahead.
So there would be like black,
ones that were wrapped in black
and those were like for his personal,
like these you keep.
Then there'd be green, red, orange and shit like that.
And each one of them was a step down.
Yeah.
So when he finally got caught,
he got caught with 180 of them.
But yeah, that's why we'd have to take off, you know,
and like disappear for some years when I was really little.
So he is the like the guy that like I always went to
when I had questions about anything from Mexican weed,
Mexico weed.
And that's why he was all like,
oh, the orange buds that all comes, you know,
like that was coming up from Mexico in the fucking seventies
and I was all like, you know,
and he was all even like a lot of this green piney stuff.
He was all like the skunks that I was growing in the eighties
was coming from the Mexican seeds from the seventies,
like that he was importing, you know?
And that was his skunks, like not like skunk number one.
These are like the plants that they were all like,
God damn it smells like a skunk.
It actually smelled like skunks.
So they called it skunks.
Yeah.
They called it fucking skunk, you know?
And so, yeah.
And then there was a guy he's, they're all,
they're all passed now.
So I don't feel bad using their names.
He went by Mikey Dale.
And so when my dad left, so my dad worked the fields,
they were field workers.
And that's where he met all the young, the Mexican kids.
They all grew up together.
And so then when they all went back to Mexico,
my dad stayed here and he was in high school.
They would come back for the summer
and they would bring weed with them and stuff.
And they'd make like little pipes.
He said out of like the grape vines,
because you could hollow them out and like smoke it like
that.
And he was also, by the time I graduated high school,
he was going to play professional baseball
and he got drafted by the angels.
And instead my mom got pregnant
and she wouldn't let them leave.
So he's all like, well, I gotta make money.
So he hooked up with his old buddy.
So he was just driving back and forth into the border.
And most of the time he didn't actually have to go
into Mexico.
They would just meet down on one of the border areas.
He just pull up and they would be waiting
and load up the fucking vehicle, off and gone.
But he still would tell me like,
before he passed, I was growing a lot of really good weed.
Like I was growing a lot of fucking really good weed.
And he would compare it to some of the stuff
that he would have back then.
Now he would say most of the stuff that I was growing now
was way fucking better.
But there were still a few that he would get.
But those growers, those generational growers,
those family growers, they did get run out.
They lost all their land.
They got run out by cartels and big money
and things like that.
So those people who were growing,
and my dad was getting it from, they no longer exist.
Their genetics are gone.
And when the new shithead growers came in there,
they were trying to grow whatever.
I've seen their grows in Mexico.
I've seen how they grow it here.
I've been on actual cartel grows.
I've been told that I was going to be kidnapped
and all kinds of crazy shit so I could go and build grows
and just wild stuff.
So like I needed to be careful
and do some of the fucking craziest shit.
So anyways, it's horrible.
They literally will just have like a sack of seeds
and they were just throwing them down
like you would fucking corn.
Yeah, of course.
Just growing out and males and females
and it didn't fucking matter.
The good growers knew not to do that.
The good growers cold males
and they actually bred what they wanted for the next season.
And it was like, in what is it, Morocco?
I think the really good hash,
most of their hash was made like from the year before.
So the plants that they would harvest,
they would sit all fucking winter.
And then they would start growing the next year.
And that's when they started making the hash.
Those plants are old and beat up and all that stuff.
Lane and dirt.
Yeah, exactly.
But it was easier for that fucking separation
of the trichome, you know?
And they just sit there and tap, tap, tap, tap, tap.
Yeah, tap that shit.
Tap it over the seed screens.
But also I also was told like learn from some
of the older guys who did serve in Vietnam
that they would bury the cannabis even when it was wet.
Yeah, ferment it.
And it would mold.
Yeah, and it would ferment it.
And then they would smoke it
and it would be like hallucinogens.
Yeah, it's what DJ Short in his book referred
to as African black magic,
which is fermented Malawi cob,
like buried in a corn cob and stuff.
Yeah, it's wild tasting.
It's so crazy.
Smoking beer.
Yeah, and so the friend who told me that story,
he's actually in hospice right now.
He's still with us.
Oh, that's too bad.
Yeah, but he was like one of my dad's best friends.
So he knows all like my dad's old stories
and everything like that, you know?
But he was telling me, he did, I think,
two tours in Vietnam and he was not a big heroin guy.
Like most of the soldiers,
that's what they were getting, you know, is heroin.
And he would spend the cannabis guys whole life
because that's what they did.
They smoked weed from the sixties, you know,
their arm and up.
Yeah.
He said that they started to finally like start making
trade for American cigarettes, foods, you know,
candies and stuff like that.
And people would start giving them heroin,
but they also would offer them weed buds.
And he was all like, some of these buds were weird
because some of them were tied, like they took
and tied them on a stick.
Yep.
And then he was all, some of them were like,
like rotten brown, weird stuff.
But they smoked it.
It was like their version of like cannabis opium,
if you will.
Oh, weird.
I'm telling you, he was all like,
that stuff would be buried for, I have no idea how long,
but he buried it fresh too.
Like they didn't dry it and bury it.
Like, so it was cured underground, but by curing it.
And he was said that he would like hallucinate
and like go on trips.
Yeah, I've heard people do it.
I want to show you what this anal torture wand looks like.
Look at that.
Can you see it?
Yeah.
It's like electric.
Yes, yeah.
And in this end attaches to a bowl
and it never touches the weed.
It only heats it to a certain temperature.
And it's, I don't think they sell it anymore,
but it was seriously like, I would buy this company
if I could, because it was that old revolutionary
of a thing for me to smoke that.
It was crazy.
I could imagine, because all vapes are kind of the same.
You know, there's a hot plate and it heats the flower.
Like it's not doing the secondary heat.
Yeah, there's actual contact with this.
Like you're heating something that's heating something else.
Every single vape I've ever smoked,
there's always this popcorn taste to it.
That's always there, like no matter what you do.
And this doesn't have that because you can dial it in
so perfect and it's secondary heat.
It's not touching the butt.
Oh, it's just so cool.
I do hope the company gets,
I remember the last time I talked to them,
someone wanted to buy one and they said
they didn't have any American plugs for them,
which whatever that means.
Oh, that means they would have to Europe plugs.
And you have to get a gapper.
Yeah.
But yeah, I mean, they're so worth it.
Anybody who wants to sample or try any cannabis
and get the real like flavor profile and really nail it,
it's the easiest way to do it.
Cause you're not tasting the chlorophyll
and all the other stuff that you're trying to move through.
Yeah, like we don't really like, yeah, I understand.
Like you're wanting to get that flavor.
You just want that essence and that's what it is.
You just want the oil and that's all it is.
Yeah.
The combustion gives you a different high,
like compare the flavor.
If you want to just pure flavor.
This thing fucks me up.
I can imagine.
I can imagine.
For hours you just be like,
hmm, it's weird man.
I didn't, I thought it would be a lot lighter
because I don't know why,
like you don't get as much smoke in your lungs
because it's vapor.
So it doesn't feel the same.
You don't think you're going to get as high.
Yeah. You don't think you're going to get as high
for whatever reason,
but I always end up doing the mumble jumble like after.
We come from the time when if we didn't choke,
we weren't smoking.
Like, you know.
You got to cough it off buddy.
Yeah, exactly.
Exactly.
You know, like man, my weed never makes me
fucking cough anymore.
It's so smooth now, you know, like I'm all on myself.
Oh, I love you.
I don't cough anymore.
That's true.
Good point.
I think these things are just so filled with shit and ass.
My lungs are just so fucking wrecked.
It's all like, I don't care.
I'm good.
Let's smoke some of that dirty dirt.
And we did smoke dirty dirt.
Oh God damn.
You don't even know.
Some of it, I mean, we don't even know what dirty dirt.
We smoked to be honest.
No, God no.
God no.
The nastiest of pesticides.
Yeah.
So we have made it through a whole nother episode.
Did we?
Yeah.
We have done a whole nother episode
and I'm sure we can pile down a hundred thousand more.
Probably will.
Yeah.
So, but yeah, this is, this is a smell boat episode two.
Yeah.
Episode two.
And this time we actually have a time
for the release of the beans.
I know.
Yeah.
So we should have them out in a week,
which might mean two for us.
But it might be two.
10 is the max.
10 is the max.
Yes.
And I think there might be five of one of them.
I'm going to have to look,
but I think it's 10 packs max.
And that's it.
Okay.
Literally from that one, that'll be it.
So if you really want something,
I don't flood shit.
Like I just don't flood my markets.
I never have.
I never will.
So if you buy some of my seeds,
you're getting something that other motherfuckers
won't have.
And you know, it's, it's just different.
It's, it's good.
I think, I think picking these ones first
is I think people are going to like freak the fuck out.
Cause that rainbow sister, dude, that chocolate flavor.
I like that one.
Yeah.
A lot.
Do you still keep the cut?
You still have her?
Oh yeah.
I have rainbow, rainbow sister.
I have another one.
I'm going to steal it from you when I see you.
Yeah.
I have another one that I haven't shown off as much
cause she's kind of ugly.
It's the only rainbow I've ever found that was ugly,
but it really pulls the OG,
like the old school, old school OG.
But good God, like you literally could like squeeze the bud
and it would stick to the wall for all day.
Yeah.
You could just stick it on there
and it wouldn't fucking come off.
It's like that sap.
It's like,
I remember my dad told me that when the first Afghanis
came through, that was the one thing they noticed
is that you could stick it on a wall.
And they all said like, it would stick to the wall.
They were so surprised by it.
Cause it does.
It pops when you smoke it.
Yeah.
It pops when you smoke it.
The resin pods inside,
there's like these little pods
and they have like sap inside of it.
So when you smoke it,
you'll actually see it looks like fireworks.
And people that are inexperienced,
they're like, oh, you need to flush it better.
And I'm like, yeah, yeah.
Yeah. You need to fuck off.
Yeah.
You need to learn to smoke.
Dude, I've only had that happen
with a few different strains
where the pods get so filled with fucking resin
that like as you're smoking it,
they like, they sparkle.
The motherfuckers sparkle.
One of the weirdest ones got, I hate saying this too.
It was the SFV by Rainbow that did it.
The SFV, that cut so weird,
but man, there's some good ones.
There's some good, that's, yeah.
So that was when you brought up Swerve
was passing off SFV cut.
Yes. Yes.
Cookies on wall.
Why didn't you just say what the fuck it was?
That shit's up.
You had a real SFV.
That's a fucking banger, man.
Like.
No, he wanted cookies.
He wanted cookies.
And cookie, yeah.
And no one would give it to him.
Ha ha ha ha ha.
Anyway, episode two of Smelly in the Bag.
Is there anything else you wanna plug before then
or just the seeds?
We got the seeds laid out.
I think that's it.
If anybody, you know, has questions or whatever,
you guys know where to find me.
Smellboat.
Smellboat on Instagram.
Instagram is where he responds best.
I don't social media and other places really.
So I made a, what is it called?
A Reddit thing on accident somehow.
So, and I got a message on there
and I didn't even know I had a Reddit thingy.
I don't even know if I'm saying it right.
Reddit, is it Reddit?
That's enough.
I think Reddit.
Reddit, something.
Yeah, something like that's like porn site.
I think it's for porn.
I think it's.
I think that's what it is.
I think it's for Twinkie Dickin'.
But thanks guys for listening.
Thank you for all the messages,
the responses, the, you know, all that stuff.
It's fucking great.
And thanks for having me on again, Bubba.
I'm gonna take us out and run the music
and hopefully it'll run at the right spot.
It never does.
Thanks for showing up.
See you, y'all.
Want more Breeder Syndicate?
Be sure to check out our Patreon by going to Google
and searching Breeder Syndicate Patreon.
We have a secret Discord where we are available
at most times and interact daily.
There are a lot of perks to be had there, so check it out.
Need seeds?
Check out riotseeds.com
where you can get our seeds and our reversal spray
for making your own feminized seeds.
