Hey, what's up everyone?
Just getting ready for everything.
Hold on.
I should have put on the headphones first.
Too late.
Hopefully it's not too bad.
The subject for today is going to be Eric from HBK Farms is going to come talk with
us.
He's one of my old friends and he's been around forever.
He's made some killer strains, won some awards, done some cool shit.
So we're going to bring him on.
What am I smoking on?
Professor P sent me some stuff.
I've been smoking on some Blue Power from a buddy.
Lots of good stuff.
Lots of good stuff.
All right, hold on.
Here, see how we're doing on volume.
Okay.
Yo.
Yo.
What's the haps, amigo?
How goes it?
All right.
How's the connection there?
Yeah, it seems like it's good so far.
Holden?
We're good.
What is that?
What is that couch chair you're on?
It's a rocking chair.
Oh, Lord, you get to chill while you're doing it.
I do a little bit, a little bit.
I'm just chilling.
I'm just chilling.
I'm just chilling.
I'm just chilling.
I'm just chilling.
I'm just chilling.
I'm just chilling.
I'm just chilling.
I'm just chilling.
I'm just chilling.
I'm just chilling.
I'm just chilling.
A little bit, a little bit.
That's cool.
That's cool.
All right.
Waiting for HPK right now.
So for everyone just coming in, we're going to have on HBK Farms.
He's an old friend of mine.
He's been in the scene forever, won awards at the Emerald Cup.
When I first met him, he was making a killer, killer topical, one of the best.
And he won many awards for his topicals as well, but one of the most, one of the best
the most effective CBD creams that were at the time.
I'm not sure if he still does it.
I know he put a pause on it for a while,
but he was winning awards and one of the earliest guys
to be doing stuff like that
and really make effective CBD cream.
So we'll be bringing him on tonight.
Let's see if he's in here yet.
HBK, any HBKs in here?
There he is, invite.
There we go.
So he should be joining us in a second.
He's still your Pop Pop's lazy boy.
Yeah, no doubt, right?
It's pretty funny.
It's a comfy chair.
Hey Eric, what's up brother?
Hey, what's going on guys?
Good to see you, dude.
Good, thank you.
Sorry for the smoky screen,
but my phone's kind of a piece of crap.
It's all good.
As long as we can hear you, we're good.
Be sure to speak up.
Okay.
All right, so who is HBK Farms
and where are you from brother?
Originally Southern California.
I grew up in San Diego on the border, East County.
Yeah, Campo area.
Yeah.
And then for the last 25, 30 years,
I've been in Central Valley near Fresno.
Yeah.
And then for the last 10 years,
I spent half the year in Southern Humboldt
and half the year down here.
Very cool.
And when you started HBK Farms,
was that when you were in San Diego
or was that when you moved up to the Central Valley?
No, Central Valley.
Yeah, I didn't really brand myself until,
God, almost like 2014, 2015.
And that was when I got online
and started talking to people.
And I realized I needed a name
I was trying to get into the cannabis industry.
And so, yeah, I came up with HBK.
That was actually a name that came prior
when I was playing paintball back in the day,
actually kind of before that.
And it was just for half-baked kids.
Is that what this ad's for?
Yeah.
That's funny, I didn't know that until right now.
Yeah, I had a foreman at one point
and he didn't really like me.
And he used to always be like,
oh, that stoner guy, he's fucking half-baked, ah.
And it just kind of stuck.
And then when I was playing paintball for about 10 years,
I was doing a lot of tournament level ball.
And we started some teams
and yeah, Half-Baked was the name of our team.
That's awesome.
I didn't even know that, all these years.
Yeah, thank you.
What were you smoking in San Diego?
Like what years in San Diego were you puffing
back in San Diego when you were there?
Yeah, so I grew up in the East County
and I think when I was in about 10th grade,
I started smoking.
What kind of stuff did you see around then?
Brick weed.
Yeah, yeah.
The experience of the brick weed.
Yeah, and then every great once in a while,
we would see some kind bud come through.
Yeah.
And that was usually, we'd have to go down
into like El Cajon or maybe like Mission Beach,
back that down.
But that was so expensive back then that I couldn't like,
that's why I started growing.
Yeah.
My dad was a grower.
He was kind of a hobbyist grower when I was a kid.
And his best friend who lived on our property
was like legit grower.
He was a gorilla grower.
Yeah.
And so when I started growing,
my dad kind of shut me down real quick,
but then Darrell, my dad's best friend,
took me under his wing.
And then there were some other people in our town
that were pretty heavy growers.
So yeah, I learned pretty early on,
that would have been like 89, 88, 89, I started growing.
Yeah.
And then by 90, 91, I was already producing seeds
because back then we couldn't find any seeds.
Yeah.
I got lucky and had some pretty good strains
and was already finding some males.
And so I started making seed.
And I had a, growing up on the border in Tecate,
I grew up with kids that parents were cartel growers.
Yeah.
And they were like, can you get a seed?
Like bags of seed?
And I was like, yeah.
And so I realized that it was easier to grow seed for sale
and not risk as much than trying to grow pounds.
Yeah.
And so that's what I started doing early on.
But then I took a break from like 97, 98 to 2000.
Four or five.
I had a daughter and my life changed
and kind of got out of it for a little while
and then came back and been here ever since.
Yeah.
So when you, when I first met you,
you were heavy, heavy, heavy into the topical scene.
And I remember like our first exchange,
you gave me some of your cream, like, hey, try it out.
Like real generous.
It was, I knew it, it sold for good money,
but you gave it to me, I tried it.
And I tried so many different creams over the years.
And I really genuinely dismissed every cream
that I tried after that.
But when I tried yours and handed it off to my chick
and my mom at the time, they were blown away.
Absolutely blown away.
And you started winning some big awards for your work.
Can you tell us how you got into that?
I'm very interested in that.
Yes.
So my daughter, when she was born,
she was born with a rare skin condition
called epidermolysis bullosa.
It's like, so they're missing a skin tissue layer
and called the butterfly disease,
I think is what they call it or something like that.
And it's kind of like being burned every day
without being burned.
And so blisters, sores, the blisters, once they start,
they don't stop.
They just keep like,
she would get a little blister on her knuckle.
And by the next morning it would take up her whole hand.
Oh God.
And you'd have to stop,
you'd have to lance it to stop it,
which you're not supposed to do.
But because of the tissue layer issue,
she would get these infections.
So in 96, 95, 96, there were some local hippies,
a lady named Marion, who was one of my elementary teachers.
Her husband were holistic, old school hippie growers
at that time.
And she was like,
oh, you know, you got to make these cannabis salve.
And she started teaching me about cannabis salves
and creams.
And then God, I kind of dabbled around with it
for a little bit.
But then when I came back into growing again,
I started trying to pick it up,
but I wasn't getting the effects that I really wanted.
It wasn't really working for her.
But then I came across CBD and hemp
and working with Ringo Lawrence.
And he was like, hey, you know, we've got this stuff.
You should check it out.
I've got a friend that's making these creams
and it's really helping.
And I was like, oh, okay.
And so I got into it and yeah, I just decided
I'm going to make a good cream.
You know, like I wanted something that,
just with my daughter's skin condition,
it couldn't be too greasy.
It couldn't be oily.
And it couldn't be too rough.
So a lot of the people that were making cannabis salves
or balms, it was like beeswax and coconut oil and ganja.
And that just made her skin problem worse.
So I came up with the cocoa cream, seven ingredients,
and it started working for her.
And so I started kind of selling it
on the side a little bit.
I started getting instant feedback.
Everybody's like, dude, this is amazing.
And so, yeah, I started getting it on the market
and I started winning awards.
And then the CBD craze hit.
And all of a sudden, it went from like 10 or 20 of us
that were making CBD creams or topicals
to like thousands and big companies
that were like dumping shit on the market and garbage.
All of a sudden I went from everybody being like,
oh wow, who are you?
What's this?
To all of a sudden everybody's like,
oh, you're a CBD company?
Fuck you.
I backed off for a while.
And I kind of just kept it available
for people who wanted it and needed it.
But I stopped trying to go big with it
because I didn't have a million dollars
to go up against these CBD companies that started coming out.
And so, yeah, I still make it.
I still have it available.
So I just don't market it like I used to
because it's just the people who know know
and anybody that wants to know, it's still there.
That's good to know.
I mean, people don't understand.
Like with that market, there was only a few people
that were doing it right, like really right.
And when CBD hit big and the farm bill passed and shit,
people started licensing hemp products from China.
And they are paid to grow hemp over there
and to leach toxins from the soil.
Like it's used to do that.
It's garbage.
And they know they can pass that off
at cheaply, super cheap on dumb ass Americans.
And that pretty much wrecked the whole industry
for the few people who were doing this shit right.
And now you see it in gas stations everywhere.
You don't know how it's sourced.
You don't know how it's made and there's no regulation.
So nobody gives a fuck.
It's sad.
It's sad.
It's one of those things that people don't seem
to know very much about.
So when it went fully legal, it seems to me
like all those products you were talking about,
most of them don't have like the amount you would want.
Right, they just want to splash CBD cream or lip balm
or this or that or whatever or gels.
And they don't really have a bunch of science
behind what actually works.
What I was thinking when you were talking
about all that stuff is like how interesting
like your weed path is because most people
who start making seeds have been growing flower
for a while before they get like the know-how
and the knowledge and the itch to make,
to like sell seed, not to like make seed every year
to grow flower, but actually to like sell seed, right?
And then to get into cream, cream has gotta be one
of the rarest things that anybody ever figured out
how to do.
Like that, like pretty much nobody was really making
that kind of stuff.
It wasn't common.
I never met anyone really that was like.
And because I was dedicated to making seed,
I didn't have a lot of flower.
So I have a lot of by-product from the plant
that I was breaking down for the seed.
And I'm like, well, what am I gonna do with this?
Let's make hash or let's like, let's figure out
what we're gonna do with this.
Let's make edibles.
I wasn't a good edible maker
and I wasn't a great, great hash maker.
And I didn't have a lot of material.
So yeah, the topicals were like,
it instantly all just fell into place.
It was like, oh yeah, okay.
This is what we're gonna do.
And yeah, those are the two things I focused on.
Yeah, it was wild times and I'm glad to hear
you're still making it.
And I know like instantly everybody in chat was like,
where do we buy it?
Is it available on a website?
Is it available on a website anywhere?
It is, I have my own website.
It's www.hbktopicals.com.
All right, I'm gonna pin it in the chat room
so people can see it while we're doing this
and go grab it.
And there are very few things that I will
put my name behind, but Eric's topicals
have been always, always been awesome.
Always, always been awesome.
So I highly recommend it, checking it out.
I have the Cocoa Cream, which is designed
for skin restoration or skin condition issues.
It works great for like bug bites.
Takes the itch away.
But then I also have a Cinnamon Fire Bomb,
which is based off of like a traditional tiger balm.
And that's for muscle, ligament, you know,
it's a menthol type based, smells like cinnamon, fire.
Nice.
That available.
I do have tinctures up from time to time.
And I've been trying to get the chapsticks back,
but I just haven't had the money for the labels.
Yeah, yeah.
My girlfriend loved the chapstick.
That's the one she likes the most is the chapstick.
Dude, the chapsticks were like a big thing
for a long time when I was doing the Emerald Cup.
Yeah.
Sell out, it would go through like 500 containers.
And every year people would go back up at the booth
and pull their stick out and be like,
oh, this is the best I still got.
I'm glad you're here.
Yeah.
I think it's because it's like super, it's affordable.
And it's something everybody can afford,
but it's highly effective at the same time, you know?
So people are gonna want me to ask more about Ringo
and your interactions.
I didn't know Ringo,
so I didn't have any interactions with him or his crew.
Can you talk about him a little bit?
Yeah, so I knew Ringo kind of,
I would go up and see him every once in a while.
We had kind of like a phone conversation relationship
in 2010 or 11.
I can't remember when it was.
I wasn't doing too well.
I decided I was gonna leave the Valley.
I was gonna move to Humboldt.
I went up there looking for work.
I wasn't like, I got lotted in with all the immigrants
and the homeless people and this dude pulled in, you know?
And I kind of looked at him and I'm like,
man, I wonder if this guy can help me out.
So I walked over, started talking to him.
We kind of took a bond and he's like,
hey, I've got some work,
but if you can move some units for me,
and I'm like, okay.
And so, yeah, I started talking with him
and kind of formed a bond and I would just call him
and go up and see him every now and then.
And then when the CBD thing hit for him,
he was kind of like the godfather of the CBD movement.
And then he got sick and passed away
before I could really get a chance
to spend a lot of time with him.
We were doing a little bit of CBD breeding work
when I was doing all that testing for Jaime.
Well, I wasn't really doing testing for Jaime.
I got a lot of the early canna tonic feed.
Yeah, yeah.
And then when Ringo had all his Sue lines,
I started going through those
and then we started working on the lavender project
and then, yeah, he passed away.
And I tried to reach out to his kids,
but his kids didn't really know me
and they were doing their own thing.
And so, yeah, I just kind of lost track of all that.
And unfortunately, I'm not sure
if any of his lines are still around from the family,
if they're still focusing on any of that or not.
I honestly don't know.
Yeah, I can tell you.
His daughter, Danielle, and Levi
were the ones that kind of took over.
I think they still have some stuff going on,
but I'm not sure.
But I still see Harl Sue crosses everywhere.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
And so that's his legacy that'll live on forever.
Yeah, that's cool.
When you get to work with some of those guys
who are maybe like underground legends like that,
you get to just briefly rub elbows with them
and have some of their magic rub off on you a little bit.
That's special stuff.
And it sounds like he's a special dude.
Yeah, yeah.
He was the one that got me to start growing again.
I was still kind of like,
oh, I'll grow a couple little plants in my backyard.
And he was like, no, man, you live in a great area.
You can go incognito.
Let's do this.
And I'm like, okay, yeah, fuck it, let's do this.
And so, yeah, I miss that guy.
He was really cool.
He had a lot of great stuff going on.
He grew a lot of really big plants.
And yeah, I miss him.
Well, that's cool.
You have anything you wanna ask now, Tim?
I mean, the weird,
I was just thinking about the whole CBD thing,
because I think for probably the first 20,
or for most people, when they first encountered CBD,
they didn't know what it was.
And so they felt like it didn't work.
I come from the Midwest, right?
And we used to get really beautiful ditch weed sometimes.
We'd call it pertendica.
And it would look unbelievably juicy, so much better.
You were talking about Mexican.
We all started on, there was two kinds of weed.
There was brown Mexican and green Mexican.
And then every once in a while, you'd find kind bud.
But then sometimes people would take that gorgeous weed
and dry it, and it would look so amazing.
And we'd spend all this money,
and we'd smoke and smoke and smoke and smoke.
And like, oh, I'm like, man, I'm not getting high.
And so it's just interesting how,
for a long time, we had this relationship with hemp and CBD.
And then we went like 50, 60 years with nothing.
And so even a lot of people on the THC side,
they're pretty knowledgeable.
CBD is supposed to do stuff,
everything from miracle cures to make nothing.
Yeah.
Right?
It's really odd in that regard.
And so it's kind of like in its,
I think it's kind of like in its infancy,
and it seems like it got all big, all quick,
like you were saying.
And so all these sharks jumped in
and kind of like diluted the scene.
It's really what-
Surprised.
Well, yeah, everyone just jumped in
and nobody knew anything.
And then you get to sell something cool and holistic
to people that don't know anything.
And they don't know how much doses
are supposed to be in there.
Yeah.
They don't know what an effective dose is.
Right?
And so it's kind of like, yeah, it's weird.
It's weird in that like, as soon as it went legal,
it like got doused in a sea of like ineffective CBD.
Yeah.
The difference between the textile hemp style plants
that are more for fiber, which is also carries some CBD,
which is hemp versus the more traditional like CBD lines
that we know now, like Canna Tonic.
There was a big difference.
So when I first started smoking
some of the early Canna Tonic,
I picked up on a euphoric feeling from it.
And I was like, oh yeah, there's something here.
And then when we made the creams for it,
I made some really hot batches
and I could feel my hands getting numb.
And I was like, oh wow, okay, I'm gonna do something
to this, you know?
Yeah.
So I've gotten textile type hemp extraction
and tried to use it and it's completely useless.
What's interesting about that is like Canna Tonic and stuff,
it seems like there's not that much CBD
that's like bred from drug cultivars towards the CBD side.
And that's kind of what I was getting
at what you were saying is like Canna Tonic
was sort of bred from smoking weed,
not from the other side of like hemp fiber
or anything like that, which might have a bunch in it.
If you remember when Jaime first sent those testes seeds out
like we didn't know it was a CBD line.
It was just Canna Tonic and they just made the cry.
It wasn't ever advertised.
They didn't breed it as a CBD line originally.
It just ended up that way.
Yeah.
Yeah, and if you look at the genetics behind Canna Tonic,
you would think, oh, this is gonna be some fire weed,
like bomb THC weed because it's the genetics behind it.
But then, you know, it's primarily CBD only.
Now, when I was going through all those packs
and I was having them tested,
I found one phenol that was a primarily THC carrier phenol.
It was like a 14 or 16% THC with very little THC or CBD.
That was still one of my favorite plants that I ever smoked.
It was like real cheesy and it got me so high.
And then when I was doing that work with plant speaker Jay,
I lost that cut.
I was trying to get it to Jay.
And while I was gone up there, I lost that cut.
But there are some very rare THC phenols
in Canna Tonic out there.
Yeah.
Yeah, I think it's funny because a lot of people
weren't around when Resin Seeds came out.
And I remember they had the fake HP 13 sour diesel.
So I remember thinking, fuck, they got the sour pussy
and they're selling it?
Hell yeah, I wanna try that.
And it turned out not to be anything.
And they admitted it later on.
They're like, yeah, this isn't what we thought it was,
which is cool of them.
We had the Canna Tonic.
I remember when that came out too.
And it was not a CBD line.
It was like what MK Ultra G13 Haze?
Yep.
Yeah.
There was probably, honestly, in the prohibition days,
there was probably an enormous amount of CBD
in various cannabis strains that got selected away from.
Because we were only testing by smoking.
And so you're passing around different phenotypes
and your friends are like, no, that one,
I don't think, let's go with this one.
Yeah.
Because without testing, it's really hard.
Something that's one-to-one,
like 10, 12% THC and 10, 12% CBD
or something that's high in that.
When was the first time you saw results?
Like actual testing?
When do you remember?
That would have been 2011.
I was just gonna say, like 11, 12, somewhere in there.
So basically what you guys are saying
is that we've had testing for a little longer than a decade.
Right?
Where it's like before that,
like we really weren't able to select for CBD very well.
No.
And once I got my first few tests that came back,
I was hooked on getting tests.
Remember, Matt?
I was just like every week I was like testing, testing,
testing, testing, all my money on that.
It was so fucking expensive back then too.
And I remember every time I'm like,
how does he fucking afford to test all this shit?
I can't test one thing and he's got like fucking 20.
Yeah.
I was doing literally like between two and $5,000
every other week on testing,
just trying to go through all these.
And that's why I gained a lot of respect early on
because I was actually doing the work
to find these cultivars.
Yeah, you for sure were.
You were doing real testing at a time
when it was totally just not advantageous
financially to do it.
And it was very, very cool.
It was very cool to watch.
And luckily you used some of my shit.
So I was like, yeah, I can see the tests
on some of my shit too.
Cause I'm cheap.
I'm cheap fellas.
So let's talk about some of these strains
you've seen over the years.
Some of the ones you've worked with.
Let's start from the beginning.
What was one of some of the first strains
you were crossing at HPK?
At HPK or the first strains I was crossing?
Let's say the first, you mentioned that you were crossing
like different Mexicans, right?
At the beginning.
Yeah, I was doing just like,
like the very first stuff was just like
some regular old brickweed seed.
And then there was some guy in Pine Valley
that I was growing up with named Chris Ballman.
And he was like going out and finding all the kind,
but he was a trust fund kid and he had the money
and he was bringing all this weed back
and he was getting really good bag feed
and he was collecting it.
And he was giving me some of that
and I was popping those.
And out of those, I had gotten this purple hair Afghani.
These little short plants, super dark purple hairs.
And my buddies in the area in Campo there were like,
damn, like that's bomb.
Yeah.
And then one of our friends in the neighborhood,
that hippie couple, they traveled to Amsterdam,
met up with Neville, brought back most of his seed bank.
And this was in, I wanna say my daughter wasn't born yet.
So it would have been three 94.
They brought back a bunch of genetics
and my best friend Jeff at the time
was working with these people.
And he pulled a few cuts away from them
and then got a few seeds from them
after they had made some crosses.
And that's what I was working with.
And then there was another guy over in Verona
by the Indian reservation.
They were working with some Jamaicans.
Yeah.
Jamaican runs.
And we got a little bit of that.
And that's what I was working with early on.
And then when my wife at the time got busted
for international trafficking, we lost everything.
We moved and then I had to start over again in mid 2000.
And in mid 2000, when you started working
with making strains again, what were you growing?
What were some of your selection criteria?
The first few things I started working with
was I was moving some weight for some mom growers
in the Valley.
And I got some heated pounds of some really great weed.
And I then got some bag seed from some kids
that I was playing paintball with.
And that's when I was making that candy crack
is what I was calling it.
And I ran that for a long time for two years.
And then I got into the CBD thing hard.
I was running some of your stuff.
And...
People have been asking about that candy crack green
in the comments repeatedly.
Yeah.
That was something that is kind of this convoluted
bucked up story that I got tired of arguing
with everybody about.
I made that stuff back in like 2005 or six.
I was dumping clones, just some kids in San Jose
that were distributing them.
And I didn't realize what it really was
until about 2014 when I started seeing
some of the flower come back and everybody's like,
yeah, it's crack.
And I'm like, man, I think that's my string.
So I reached out to you.
And so kind of came up with the name.
And then later on, like 2018 or 19,
Kevin started phylosing everything.
And so I threw in a phylos run
and it came back as green ribbon,
but also green crack.
And it was also related to skunk, hemp,
Colombian gold.
Dream queen.
Yeah, all this shit.
So I don't fucking know.
Like I honestly don't know.
I just kind of was like, whatever.
Like if it is, it is cool.
Like I knew I had some really good stuff,
but it was such a small run
and I wasn't really shooting for anything at that point.
But it turned out to be a bitching string.
And yeah, phylos is back to a bunch of stuff.
So, you know.
Yeah, phylos is a tough one.
You never know, like their results were so inconsistent.
Like some of the times I'd see them and I'd be like,
okay, that makes sense genetically,
this related to that, blah, blah, blah.
And then you go and see like, I don't know, for example,
let's say someone submitted a Bubba Mendo perps
and then they submitted Bubba
and then they submitted Mendo perps that they made it with.
And then all of a sudden it's like,
oh, none of these are related.
Well, that's fucking weird, you know?
Yeah, right.
So yeah, I kind of just stopped arguing that point.
But then the next thing that came up was the Chili Verde.
The Chili Verde was part of the lavender project with Ringo.
Yeah.
Ringo had called me one night and he's like,
he's like, you're running that lavender, right?
And I'm like, yeah, I'd gotten a cut here locally.
It was the San Jose cut or whatever it was,
the lavender that everybody had in mid 2000.
It was a little short, stocky, super dense.
Was it the early lavender?
Yeah. Yes.
Yeah.
Yes.
And he's like, hey, he's like,
I got all these seeds that I bought from Soma.
He goes, I don't want to work this project
to get straight lavender,
but he's like, if I give you the seeds and go through it,
can you come up with something?
I'm like, yeah.
And he said that he had a male already.
So I went up, got the seeds, got the male,
got some more lavender cuts from him, brought them all back.
And I started trying to make,
cause he wanted straight lavender.
Yeah.
And so I made the straight lavender,
but while I was doing that,
I had a whole debt pool of other stuff.
Yeah.
I hit it to Eli and pie.
I hit it to Girl Scout.
I hit it to pineapple cheese from Ringo.
Yeah.
I hit it to a Haro stew.
I hit it to a, what was the other one?
The Kraft baby.
It was, oh, the green candy.
Yeah.
And there was another one that I did
and harvested all that stuff.
Took all the seeds back up to Ringo,
gave them to him and then he passed away.
And then the next season was a year
when those kids ripped me off.
And along with that stock,
got all that breeder stock from me.
So I lost the lavender stock, basically.
I kept one little, I had one little shitty clone left.
And, but I had all the other seeds
and then I started dropping those chili Verde's.
And when I dropped the chili Verde,
I got kind of a lot of pushback.
People were actually talking shit to me when I dropped them.
They were like, you use key lime pie?
They're like, that is the shittiest
fucking plant in the world.
Yeah.
You're not a breeder.
And I'm like, well, I liked it.
It was okay.
You know.
None of them had even tried it.
That's the fucked part.
Like it was, it was in so few hands at the time.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And so I didn't, I kind of perceived it as,
oh, well maybe I made a mistake.
And so I didn't really push it that hard
and I sold some packs and then I just set it aside.
And two or like two years later,
two years later, it popped a few more seeds.
And I had A through F cuts is what I was calling them.
Yeah.
And I was hanging out with John
and we were doing the breeder series with.
Who's that?
Which one?
F-room Papa.
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
And so I took a bunch,
I took some cuts up with me and I was like,
John, like check this stuff out.
And he looked at the flower and he was like,
he was like, wow.
He's like, what is this?
And I'm like, feline pie lavender.
And he's like, he's like, this is legit.
He's like, do you have cuts of this?
I'm like, yep, I brought you one.
I gave him one.
And he was like, he's like, man,
he's like, we're going to do some stuff with this.
He's like, we've got something here, man.
He's like, you're on to something.
I'm like, okay, cool.
And that was when I met NotSoDog,
I think at the same exact event.
That's a nice cut.
I got to, I agree with that cut
that you gave him multiple years
in greenhouses in Mendocino.
It was, I liked it sun grown quite a bit.
Was that the super Verde cut?
Yeah, we had this chili Verde.
I have pictures of it on my phone.
A bunch of them.
We did probably a couple of years in a row,
probably half of like a 30 by a hundred greenhouse of it.
A good amount.
There was one when Eric first brought it up
that smelled like to a T chili Verde,
like just wildest, greasy meat chili Verde smell.
It does kind of seem to like that weed came out
like a few years before the like modern purple wave
sort of swamped everything.
It really was like purple had not been popular
for the most part for quite a long time.
It was one of the first cuts I remember seeing
that like kind of started that wave like that
and the gelato and different things like that.
But it reminded me,
it definitely, you can definitely taste the lavender in it.
But I think it's maybe a little bit more potent.
So the cut that Matt's referring to
is one of the other cuts that I had.
It was more of that straight chili.
Now the super chili, which was coined by Lion Bolt,
I think, which is the D cut.
That's the cut that I gave John,
the one that won the Emerald Cup.
That one was heavy lavender.
It was really gravy,
but it still had like this oaky overtone to it.
Yeah, it was really different
than the cut that I smelled from you.
It was like the one I smelled from you
and it had a little bit of a hint of like meat,
like chili verde on the barbecue.
It was good.
Yeah, the one I had was sweet, much sweeter.
The one that won the Emerald Cup was,
the reason I gave it out
was because it had better uniformity looking structure.
It had more tighter nugs
and it was a little bit easier to run in depth or outdoor,
but it was really finicky indoors,
especially if you were running the old school,
shitty LED, the pink ones.
It fucking does not like those.
Like chili just doesn't like LEDs for some reason.
I'm not sure why, but yeah.
So those were the two that I had a couple of different cuts.
And then John had the fire,
the cut got out, got to a few different people
and then yeah, it took off and it won.
And I was a little bummed
because I wasn't in position to be able to capitalize
on getting cuts out to the population when it won.
And other people instantly jumped on it
and made a lot of money.
And I was just like, hey, fuck,
how am I gonna deal with this?
How do I direct this in my direction?
So I'll start dropping seeds.
Like I got seeds, I got seeds.
Like I don't have cuts, but I got seeds.
And so I kind of tried to stay on top of it.
Yeah, still kind of pushing that run.
It's turned out to be a really good breeder.
I've gotten up into the F5, F6s now.
Oh, awesome.
I've got the last batch of chili crosses that I did.
I did like, I think it was seven crosses with an F5
and they turned out phenomenal.
Every single jar you open is just so bomb.
Bitching color,
because you get that red from the hairs
and the purples and some of the greens.
And I kind of did some hypie crosses a couple of years ago
before I went to work for Emerald.
And I still haven't released them.
I'm trying to get them out in the next couple of weeks,
but there was a Runtz chili, a Wedding Crashers chili,
Wedding Cake chili, Josh D chili,
Dosey Do chili, and Sweeties chili.
And every one of them turned out just amazing.
I was really happy with every single one of them.
Yeah, are you finally?
Okay, go ahead.
One of the things I like about the Chili Verde
is that a lot of cookie hybrids
seem to not like the sun and not like food very much.
I don't know, I felt like that one,
especially you put it out in the sun and it thrived.
You fed it well and it thrived.
It could eat, it could grow.
There's certain aspects where like,
I think sometimes like some of these,
some cookie selections were designed for like Rockwell
and to be two feet tall in an indoor situation.
And like the Chili Verde can grow, you know?
Like it can be a healthy, happy, vigorous plant.
And a lot of cookie hybrids aren't that way in my opinion.
You know, that one was one that was, you know,
you could put it in the sun and it would, you know,
you could put it in a greenhouse,
you could depth it like you said.
It did well as like a medium sized plant.
Like something you wanna get a half pound
per plant off of.
And it gave you a lot of very, very pretty weed.
Like you were saying the formation on it,
it's extremely attractive when it's dry.
It has a really nice aroma, you know?
And it gets me high.
I always thought because of the lavender,
it wasn't gonna be a big yielder.
But when I was working for Ben up in Mendo,
we ran about 25 or 30 phenos of the F5s.
Two, we were pulling like between three to seven pounds
off some of them plants.
And they were just monsters, you know?
Arm size, colas from bottom to top.
They're a little PM prone
if you're in a pretty nasty area,
which can kind of be a bummer.
But if you're in a dry, hot climate,
like here in the Valley, they thrive.
They've got really good root structure,
really good nutrient and water uptake to them.
They have a good root system.
They're a little dangerous if you get some fog for sure,
cause it's such thick buds, you know?
They're not like big buds, but they're very dense.
You know, it's one of those things when we're in a dry,
when you put it on there,
you're surprised at how much it weighs.
So, but both of them, they are a little,
they are a little like PM and gray mold sensitive.
But that's like any, I think all that lavender,
urchel, all those super dense lines have that, you know,
plants have pluses and minuses.
But that was, it was a good grower.
I enjoyed growing it, you know?
It's like, if you're in a hot air conditioned area,
like especially like, say you're in Arizona or Colorado,
they do really well.
They, here in the Valley, they can be like 110,
probably 108 today.
And they're just like, you know, bring it, come on.
So.
Yeah, it's brutal right now, dude, in the Valley.
Yeah, where are we going on like over 40,
45 days of over a hundred.
And I think we still got like probably another 10 days,
at least.
At least.
That shit starts making me question my life choices.
Yeah.
Like, you know, it really is.
I mean, it's a little much.
Like plants, I don't know.
But it is interesting in the sense that like,
the hard part is you can get with,
like you're right, in dry airy conditions,
you can get some monsters.
It's just about like keeping them hydrated
and like, and making sure they don't go B grade
because it's too hot at night.
Yeah, and you know, shade cloth is,
you gotta have some shade cloth on them.
They can't take 110 degree direct light for hours on end.
They just don't like it.
It's way more light than they need.
Yeah, and so you get like a good 30 to 40 or 50%
shade cloth, I like the 30s.
Just keep that over them the whole summer
and they'd be fine.
They thrive.
Yeah, hydration is the key, man.
So since you're going in the Valley
and you have a lot of experience with it,
yeah, someone asked a good question.
Are some turps volatile to heat?
Like, are there some turps, like some strange,
you cannot grow in the Valley
because it gets so fucking hot during the summer,
there's no point because it gets turpless.
Is that possible?
Yeah, the turps will die.
You'll get that kind of like, not hay,
but it smells like old weed almost.
And what also happened that I've seen
is I've actually seen trichrome heads melt.
Hoo, out here.
Yeah, the heads will just literally be like, bleh.
And then you're left with a fucking stalk
of like a dead tree kind of thing.
And then it's like, you can see it where it's oozed down
and then you start getting like,
latritis type situation where it hurts to rot kind of.
I have seen that before.
I actually think one of the reasons
why a bunch of Mendo and Southern Humboldt
got so legendary for growing outdoor
is that even though it might be blazing hot in the daytime,
that ocean comes in and it cools it down at night.
And when that plant gets to cool down,
like it preserves turps.
Like if it's 105 in the day,
but it gets down to 55 degrees at night,
that makes an enormous difference
in the quality of your plant.
And if you get too far inland, like say Grass Valley,
you grow like some 10 or 15 pounders or the desert,
but that's what it's all about
is trying to preserve your turps.
Because if it's 108 in the daytime and 85 at night,
you run big risk of not, like I said, not quite hay,
but like not anything
that what your plant could be potential of.
You can definitely burn your turps off.
And yeah, it makes a big difference.
The key to growing in the Central Valley
between like Bakersfield and Sacramento
is realistically knowing your times of when to grow.
I always tell people, if you're in Fresno,
I don't grow outdoor in between like July
and the end of September.
It's just, unless you're gonna run a cool depth,
it's not fucking worth it.
It's a battle.
You have to run a water wall in like a greenhouse
and add a bunch of moisture and cool it down.
Yeah, and they're like, well, it's warm and it's dry.
And I'm like, yeah, but you have the whole rest of the year
you can get away with growing in the Valley.
You can grow from September all the way through until June.
You don't really need to stop growing
in the Central Valley from that time.
But July, August, September, take that time off.
Don't fucking grow.
I even started taking summers off indoors
because it was just such a fucking battle.
Like even trying to battle the air conditioner with indoors.
It was a fucking nightmare every year in summer,
no matter indoor or outdoor.
It's a nightmare.
That's why people call it summer bud.
Yeah, that makes sense.
It's like a lot of times people have a hard time
growing the best weed that they can
in the middle of the summer.
They really do.
You struggle with conditions.
Yeah.
And I don't know if you've ever made seeds
in that kind of condition,
but when you make seeds in over a hundred degree weather,
those motherfuckers are almost impossible to crack.
Yes, yeah.
It's like a rock.
Yeah, you need a lot of hand cracking with those too
because they develop so thick and everything
because they know that it's hot
and they want to keep their embryo alive.
It's crazy.
Yeah.
Now that we're like,
things are getting,
whether you want to call it legal or more acceptable
or whatever it might be,
it's like we all used to grow weed
where we could get away with it for the most part.
And there's not been a lot of thought
of like which type of strains grow well where.
Yeah.
Because like in America,
it's like we grow citrus in Florida, right?
Or winter wheat in Montana or potatoes in Idaho
or corn in Illinois.
You figure out where it works.
And we haven't really done that with weed.
No.
You know, but there's, so there's certain,
I was even in Mendo, there's so many micro climates.
I'd have strains where like they did amazing
in one part of the county
and I'd get a different spot and I'd put them out
and I'd be all in like stoke that I was gonna crush it
and they wouldn't do that good.
But then there was some other strains I had
that did really well.
So there's aspects where I'm sure there's some strains
that like acclimate, just like growing in British Columbia
or Canada or something, right?
There's probably some desert weed
that's like more acclimated,
but we don't really think of things that way anymore.
Right?
Like it's names and popularity and maybe it's runs
and maybe it's this.
And so, you know, I think sativas deal with the heat
better than indicas personally.
Yeah. Oh yeah.
Yeah. I think so.
And they have better water absorption abilities.
They can hold water longer.
They got thinner leaves, you know,
they don't have as much exposure.
Like, and they come from places that are hot as fuck.
Yeah.
A lot of them, you know?
So.
One thing I noticed this year was people
who are moving clones from one end of the state
to the other are experiencing like,
it's almost like culture shock for the plants
because they're used to one environment
and then you're moving them all the way
to another environment in the state.
And they're like, but some are like, yeah, they love it.
So it kind of falls into the same category
view of the clone.
So.
That's something.
Acclimation is serious.
It's a serious thing.
People don't take into account,
but some strains definitely are more picky than others.
When acclimatizing even from one grow room to the next
in the same city, it's just that difference
can really flip it.
You would like to think that like you can work
with most nurseries and like get, you know,
like toughened, hardened off plants
that are gonna be suited for your environment.
But a lot of cases, you know, clone companies
or, you know, nurseries nowadays,
they have these plants under 24 seven light
and they're just trying to keep them rooted
and healthy until somebody buys them.
Yeah.
And then they get taken from like 24 seven light
under fluorescence.
They get boxed up in the dark.
Like he said, they get shipped down
from Northern California to your desert.
They get opened up and then bam, they're in the desert.
And they're flowering.
And it's, and the light drops by eight hours in one night.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Right.
Because you used to be able to, like,
if you grew in Mendo or Southern Humboldt
or somewhere like that, like most people would acclimate
their clones and plants for their own season.
Yeah.
Nowadays you buy, you know,
people just wanna buy them from somewhere.
But it's like, I mean,
when I was working in Southern California,
the longest day of the year down there
is maybe 14 or 15 hours.
So you're getting, you're going from 24 hours to 14.
It's a 10 hour drop in one day.
You could have a plant trigger just from the shock
of the light cycle.
Yeah.
Well, it's kind of what happened to me this year
is I had some clone stock that I had in Southern Humboldt.
Spent two days, three days making the trip down here.
And I got here, put them out here,
and everything was like, oh no, we don't like this.
Oh no.
So yeah, I kind of had a little bit of a rough transition
this last couple months.
And so I just kind of gave up and just,
like, fuck it, I'll just wait until I can get back
into another good position to be able to do some real work.
You know?
Yeah.
You know, it's also one of those things too,
where it's like a lot of the,
some of the stuff that's getting really popular right now,
Indica style is probably best for, like,
being grown more Northern climate, right?
Where you get way far South, like where you guys are,
and you almost need some sativa mixed into your work
if you want it to grow outdoor and stretch, right?
Because it's far enough South that it'll trigger fast.
That's kind of the one of the things that I've seen.
And so people think that, like, oh, you know,
like figuring out what works well in your area is huge.
And, you know, it really is.
It's big.
Yeah, for sure.
I wanted to keep going over a little bit more
of the green crap stuff,
because I know that's probably what people want to hear
the most about, because it's a strain.
Like when we were working with it,
it was, the clone was a lot of places,
and then it was nowhere all of a sudden.
It's become a lost legend,
and misnamed and all kinds of stuff, you know?
Lots of imposters, lots of seed lines that weren't real.
Right there with the lavender.
You don't see the lavender around anymore either.
Not that Miracle Lavender, you really don't, not anymore.
These were all strains that,
so we had that push for strains that were,
like the Blue Dream.
Yeah.
Everybody was like, fuck Blue Dream.
Fuck the fucking lavender, fuck the, you know,
these strains that just hit a wall all of a sudden
and were gone.
Nobody wanted them, but nobody kept them.
There might be some random dude around
that has a cut of it, but.
Yeah.
Whether it's still healthy or not,
who fucking knows, you know?
Yeah.
Yeah, that is one of the biggest things
is trying to be a collector
and trying to keep genetics alive,
is that everybody will help you back it up
when it's flying out the door as flower
and it's easy to sell.
And then as soon as the mood changes,
your most of your best friends don't even want,
unless they can sell it to market
and it's working for them right now,
they only wanna keep clones of like what's currently popular.
Yeah.
And so, I mean, everyone,
and I mean everyone that was growing a decent amount of weed
in Humboldt and Mendo in the 2004, 05, 06 era,
they had one of those Urkel or one of those lavender
or one of those great vape or one of those cuts, you know?
And, you know, green crack, green crack's a great plant
if you grow it small to medium sized.
It's got really nice turps, you know?
It's got a nice buzz, it burns well,
but people got burnt out on it
because just like Blue Dream,
someone's like, oh, I can grow a 12 plow plant of this
in Grass Valley and it's gonna be bee weed
and I'm gonna ship it off
and it's gonna be endless amounts of boofy green crack.
Well, and the green crack too was like,
half the plant was larv.
Yeah.
And then the part that was trimmable
was usually the trimmers fucking hated it.
They were like, fuck this plant.
And so, yeah, it kind of just went
by the wayside pretty quick, so.
But what's funny about that one
is that you think about like the eras.
Imagine if that had had like its moment in the sun now
when everyone's extracting and all that larvy stuff
probably would dump.
Well, it was a great, so,
yeah, from my experience, it was a great,
like you could blow it, it would blow great.
But if you tried to wash it, it was almost too greasy.
Like you couldn't, yeah, it was just kind of fell
into that category of it was just too hard to work with.
And so, yeah, that's kind of why I got away from it was.
I've been trying to figure out
what green crack is for a long time,
years and years and years.
And over the years, as my experience gets better
with different strains, my opinion kind of changes
on what I think it might be.
Early on, I was like, this has got to be
some kind of so mango because it's so purple
and it's super mango.
So I was like, okay, the mango purple, it's got to be that.
And as I went on, okay, I see some skunk one in this.
Okay, it was the mango over time.
And the more I look at it and the more I figure it out,
the more I realize that it might even be
a Mindo perp something, yeah.
Okay, so that's where the story kind of gets convoluted
because a lot of people associate purple with green crack.
Yeah.
What I was running, what I was calling the candy crack
does not get purple.
I don't care when you can get it down to 20 degrees,
it does not get purple.
Yeah.
And it's more watermelon skunk than mango.
Interesting, interesting.
That lends more towards a skunk one side
than a Mindo perp.
If it's a skunk, I mean, you can look at it
and just the way that it forms its spear buds
all over itself, you can definitely see
some skunk influence in it.
I will say that if it is a skunk one pheno,
it's definitely my favorite tasting pheno of skunk one.
Yeah.
You know, when it's done right, it has nice turps.
Yeah, the original seeds I used to make
the green crack stuff that like, what were they called?
That company that made green crack S1s,
but Spanish company, Sic Mids.
Sic Mids.
Yeah, they used our S1s to make the S2s
and sold them as S1s.
But it was heavy purple.
Like, and it wasn't always purple,
but it was like the like three degrees of cold change.
It would just flip black, almost like Mindo perps does.
And yeah, it was super, super overripe mangoes,
purple, not frosty like a cookies cut,
but it was good resin for its time.
It was good resin.
It was attractive weed done right.
Yeah, and really fiery orange hairs.
And yeah, and I see people mentioning Cecil.
Like me and Cecil, when we first met each other,
we tried to figure out if he had anything to do with it.
And what we determined, he had nothing to do
with San Diego, West Coast, green crack, nothing at all.
It was just that when we received the cut,
it was CUSH.
And he sent a cut West that was also spelled wrong, CUSH.
And that was it.
That was just-
Somebody said better keeper than cheese.
I would rather have real green crack than cheese,
but that's like a personal preference.
Yeah, a personal preference for sure.
Personal preference.
But my personal preference was I would rather smoke.
And you know, what's interesting is that we were talking
about how, you know, unreliable Phylos was earlier,
which is a bummer because all of us have these
like great desires to know how things are related.
Yeah.
And I remember Caleb telling me that like,
when DNA submitted their Las Vegas lemon skunk,
that it came in exactly the same cut as green crack.
Yeah, it doesn't surprise me.
Those guys are the worst for that.
They're like DNAs.
Their can of Lopez was just a C99.
I mean-
But I just mean in the sense that it was a good enough cut
that they used it in all kinds of things.
Yeah.
They just got rid of like the name connotation, you know?
Like, oh, we won't call it green crack.
It'll be Las Vegas lemon skunk, right?
Yeah.
And it is kind of lemon skunky.
That's why I was kind of leaning,
like when they start talking about the green ribbon,
what I know is my candy is more leans towards that,
I believe, than the green crack.
I always kind of was wondering if the green crack
was just an offshoot from that,
or if maybe I had an offshoot of the original green crack.
That's where I don't know.
Yeah.
That's where it got convolated.
And that's, people will start hitting me up
and it turns into an argument.
And I just started being like, fuck it.
I don't know anymore.
Oh my God, dude.
Somebody's mind just got blown in the comments
and they just realized that can of Lopez was C99.
Yeah.
So the story was Soma, and this came from,
I won't say what came from,
but it came from the Amsterdam dudes
that were friends with all these guys
and a part of the same group.
And Soma gave them a pack of C99 to start their company.
And sure enough, that C99 became the eight week haze,
magical eight week haze.
95% sativa and comes in eight weeks.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No, I just thought that comment just,
that just, that just.
Yeah, that's funny.
Well, because they were some of the first people
that they went around California
and they took a bunch of famous cuts
and they gave them different names
and they started a seed company with it.
Yeah.
And they did really well.
Isn't like brothers Grimm trying to take the credit
for the C99, isn't he like the C99 guy
or something like that?
Yeah, well, his partner was,
his partner was and now he's here.
So that's what we're left with.
Okay, that's what I thought.
Makes more sense.
After meeting him and then you learning at a partner
and it's like, oh, that makes sense then.
Okay.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
But yeah, I mean, green crack gets up,
got up in my opinion, got a bad reputation
because most of the time you could,
you could grow an eight or 10 pound plant of green crack
and it would kind of suck.
But if you grew like a four or five pound plant
of green crack, it was really nice.
And if you grew a one or two pound plant of it,
it was killer.
Yeah.
So most people just tried to blow it up into these,
like I'm gonna grow 99 green cracks
and get just boo-coo weed.
And I'm not gonna dry it that nice.
And then people are like, oh, I don't like green crack.
Yeah.
And so that's what happens to a lot of big yielding cuts
like blue dream, green crack, you know, berry white,
these various ones that run through,
they get blown out by people that don't care.
Chili Verde has got kind of a bad rap
through the distros in California
because of the dark heart cut.
So dark heart fucking jumped on a cut of Chili Verde.
They got from a friend of mine named Moon Gazer.
Moon Gazer kind of did a quick little pheno hunt,
dropped a chili cut on them real fast.
And it wasn't the greatest chili
and it wasn't producing the best flower.
So all these growers have jumped on it right away.
Took all this flower to the distros
and the distros were like,
oh, we can't fucking do anything with this.
So it kind of like, it's like,
depends on who you talk to and like who really liked the chili
and because of which cut they had.
Now, if they're running a purple city cut
or if they're running a cut for me,
yeah, the distros take it.
But if you're running like a dark heart cut,
they might not take it.
What's nice about that is that, you know,
it seems like in Chili Verde that there's a number of people
that found a number of cuts
that had like a range of turps and effects that they liked.
Well, that's because of the fact
that I dumped all the seeds on the market.
I didn't leave it to be just a single clone only cut.
Right.
Being just one or two cuts out there.
I made sure that I got enough seeds out to the farmers
that there was some diversity
that people could start actually pheno hunting
out some good stuff.
Cause there are, there's a lot of good phenos in it.
You know, there's a few duds here and there,
but there's fucking some fire in it,
especially as you start working the line,
depending on which way you go.
I started going with just like a pineapple,
there's a pineapple pheno in there that I've been working.
I really liked that one, the turping profile, super high.
And then there's the grape pheno
that kind of everybody knows
that grape pheno is really good.
And then there's kind of more of an unknown cheese pheno
that floats in there too.
And that cheese pheno is bomb.
Like it's really good.
I gave the Humboldt local Joey,
I gave him some of the key points
and he was like, it turned out fine.
Cheese, chili, sweet lavender, cheese.
Yeah, where the cheese comes out of it,
I'm not really sure, but so in like the key line pie,
the key line pie, I was told originally
it was Durban poison, OG kush, cherry pie.
But I'm not sure that does that sound like
that still hold truth to it or not?
I mean, key line pie is also like,
it was also going around as the green sherb,
the original sherb, also stardust sherb for a while as well.
If I remember correctly,
it's the mom of what became Skittles
is what people mostly tend to think
that have been growing a bunch of it.
So you can find like the Skittles type phenos
in the out crosses and in the S1s.
But yeah, as far as what it actually is,
it's kind of like trying to peg down
what cherry pie actually is.
It's just like, wow, fuck.
They said a thousand things.
I think it's likely that all those things you mentioned
are in there in some form or another.
Yeah.
The cheese is the only one that kind of throws me off
because there is a very distinctive cheese pheno
that I did find in the F1s.
Oh, and yeah, I was like,
I didn't know if it came out of the Durban side
or maybe the OG side or the cherry side.
Wasn't really like, okay.
The Durban that those dudes used,
it was so different from like the NorCal Durb
or the Colorado Durb.
It was nothing like it.
It was not the same.
It was not terpeneline.
Yeah, it wasn't the terpeneline stuff at all.
No, so that'll...
And then, you know, we're just in the infancy
of figuring out how these different things flavor combine.
Yeah.
You know, so, you know, maybe it...
Yeah, and then I also think too, like when people smell,
it's like they relate it to things in their life.
So it's really weird.
Like someone might get strong cheese
and somebody else might like
get a totally different impression, you know?
Totally, I see that all the time.
Like almost, like when you go to shows
and you're showing people jars
and you'll show maybe like a hundred people the jar
and you'll hear like 20 different comments
of what they smell and they're all different, you know?
I actually really liked that a lot.
I used to do that with my trimmers
where I would ask them away from the rest of the trimmers
what they were smelling with what they were working on
because I liked unvarnished like opinions.
And then if I heard the same thing four or five times,
I'd start to accept that people got that terp
or that aroma.
We didn't call it terps then or whatever.
I just wanted to know what they related it to, you know?
Because the language of it is so hard.
And so if somebody said, you know,
and a lot of strains I grew over and over and over again.
And so I would ask different trimmers over the years,
like, what do you think the Maui smells like?
What do you think this smells like?
And sometimes their answers would be pretty surprising,
you know?
And you wouldn't have seen that before they said it.
But then when they say it, it clicks.
So I do think asking people's opinions,
like a show would be a really cool place
to get a bunch of quick feedback
on what something smells like.
Yeah.
Yeah, somebody was telling me recently
that a Zymetical farmer, he's got a chili
that's like, I think he said it was papaya or guava,
something like that.
I forget exactly what it was.
But yeah, I was like, I've never smelled that in it.
But then we were going through some jars recently
and somebody was like, oh yeah, I smell it totally.
And I was like, oh, okay, yeah, I get it now.
I think Flann nailed it on the head.
There might be some skunk one, cherry pie,
and key lime pie and all that.
It sounds like it.
It's just the whole gamut of skunk one smells,
the grape, the fucking cheese, all that is in there.
I mean, there's an aspect too,
where it is possible that a lot of Durban
had skunk one in it because it came through Sam.
And a lot of Durban came through Dutch Passion later on.
They sold the Durban Poison
and that had more skunk one added in.
So it was like, yeah.
So it's definitely possible.
I'm thinking that the F1 Durban
is probably a hybrid of the Dutch Passion one
because it looks like some of the old pictures
but just grown much better in now today times.
Yeah.
I mean, Durban's one of those strains that is so old
that most people don't have experience
with what Durban was like in the 80s and 90s.
Yeah.
You know, and then what survived too, you know?
And then, yeah.
The black pepper is why it's associated with Durban.
Yes.
But then that Colorado cut
and some of those other ones that got famous later
were super terpenelein.
Yeah.
You know, and once you've got terpenelein in a line,
it hangs out.
Yeah, it's hard to shake it out.
It's hard to shake it out.
But I do like, you know,
I worked with a Durban in the early 2000s
and it was definitely more on that anise,
black licorice type of aroma.
And we didn't really get like the type of terpenelein
that seems like-
Did you say it was more like your black anise?
Is that what you just said?
You know?
So, you know, indeed.
So what are you working on now, Eric?
What's cracking now?
Okay, so for the last few years,
I've been pushing a couple lines.
My Durban, or excuse me, Durban.
My Diamond Master, I've got an orange creamsicle,
a Pell's Angel Cross, it's really good.
I have some peanut butter stuff,
but right now, currently what I'm working on
is actually some Femmes.
So I've never really released Femmes.
I did one little Femme run a couple years ago,
six years ago.
What was it?
I think it was like 10 pounds.
Years ago, it was Blue Dream.
Blue Dream to Blueberry Hash Plant.
Awesome.
What I'm working on now is doing kind of a hype-y run
just for the market.
Everybody's been just inundating me for Femmes.
And so I did a collaboration with a buddy of mine,
Wyatt Turps 710.
He did a Chili Berry Skittles Cross.
And so I'm Femmenized that,
and then I hit that to like 10 or 15 hype-y strains,
like Mule Fuel, Sunset Cider, Chemistry One,
Apple Tart, Orange Diesel, Bubba Kush,
Dirty Skittles, SFV, and LA Kush Cake.
Very cool.
Very cool.
And so I'm hoping, like the normal market that comes to me
may not be interested in that,
but the market that I haven't been tapping into
because I only sell regs,
I'm hoping they'll be like, yeah, we're on them.
I've been trying to explain this to people,
that what's going on with our market.
And a lot of people shit on when I say it,
but it's true.
Like if to have a viable seed company,
you have to tap into that market,
or it just doesn't work.
There's not enough people to support the niche market
of rare strains, old strains, unique strains.
It's just not there anymore.
Nobody gives a fuck.
It's weird that in the last,
I mean, we went from four or five people
doing feminized stuff 12 or 14 years ago
to 99% of the market or more being feminized stuff.
And reg seeds, which was the standard for forever,
are now like a tiny little corner.
Yeah.
Crybaby was right.
This Giddles, Rarity Crosses will take off.
People give a chance,
especially because it's almost like a back cross,
in a sense, a back cross to the Key Lime Pie
by the Skittles.
It's more-
It would be a turf explosion,
and it would probably grow better
and look better than Skittles.
I can't-
It's not hard.
No, no, no.
Skittles is not a-
It's got chili structure, so it holds itself up.
It doesn't wanna fall over and fucking be like, bleh.
Yeah.
You can smell the Skittles in there,
but the chili's there too.
It's like, and it's,
I don't know if you've run the Dirty Skittles
or if you're familiar with that.
It's a new one from, I think, Micah up at Peace and Meds.
He's got that farm.
I think he has that Lamogy or whatever it is.
Yeah.
They did it to Skittles.
I know exactly who you're talking about, yeah.
It's really similar to that, but yeah, I really dug it.
I went through it.
My buddy, Wyatt Turps, made it,
and I was kinda, had three Finos to kinda select through,
and I was like, wow, these are fucking bomb.
You were talking like Lempire Farms, right?
Yes.
I think that's who did the Dirty Skittle.
Yeah, Lempire Farms.
Micah has a, he has a dispensary in my town.
Very cool.
In Ukiah and stuff like that,
and he's got a bunch of seeds that he's been making,
but that is-
Someone wants you to mention
electric boogaloo dog shit, Eric.
Are you doing any work with that?
The dog shit.
So I have some of the last dog shit seeds
that were given out, I guess.
Cora Genetics gave me some dog shit,
but I haven't had a chance to get to them.
I'm just kinda sitting on them at the moment.
Oh, that sounds cool.
Is that who supposedly bred it?
No, a guy out of Oregon.
No, a gentleman out of Oregon bred it.
I can't remember the name of the person
who bred the dog shit.
Yeah, yeah.
At an event, we did a sesh up in Southern Humboldt
a few months back, Joey from Humboldt Local,
and I ran into Eric from Forever Flowering.
Oh yeah.
Light Depth Eric and Cora Genetics,
and he was like, hey, take these.
I got the last dog shit.
Like, these are wild, formal breeder.
And I wanted to get into them,
but I just, I'm not in a spot right now
where I can do anything.
I'm just like.
Yeah, I'm sure that gives Natsu a major boner.
He's a electric boogaloo dog shit fucking
princess over there. I like that kind of meat.
I like that.
It's got nice flavor.
It's pretty.
It's got an up high, you know?
Yeah, High Elongative loves that one too.
That's one of his faves too.
Yeah, no, it's a nice sativa.
And I think a lot of people are in that same boat.
There's a lot of breeders right now
that are looking around at like,
what should I, like, what would I like to do?
And then they're trying to figure out,
well, what should I do to make it?
You know?
Yeah.
And it's kind of a hard thing to navigate.
Like you were talking about growing hypey things
and trying to figure out where you fit in and all that.
So, you know, there's a lot of breeders
in the game right now, but it takes,
it's kind of.
There's a lot of seed makers in the game right now.
There's a lot of seed makers.
There's a lot of breeders.
It's real.
I can't even put myself in the breeding category anymore.
I can't remember the last time I worked,
like worked a line several generations.
It's just, it's hard to, it's hard to do that nowadays
and know that it's probably not gonna sell.
You know?
Yeah.
It's crazy.
There's two distinct markets that have broken out
that you kind of, like, if you're making seeds,
you have to be making washers, something that washes.
Yeah.
The hash guys are gonna want the extract thing.
That's where it's all seem to be going to.
Or your hypey market,
because the hypey market,
once the hypey guys get ahold of that shit,
they're the ones that find that cut.
And then that cut gets taken over to the commercial growers
and then the commercial growers blow it up.
Yeah.
And so if you're not tapping into those two,
you're kind of like,
ooh, well, what am I,
like, what the fuck am I gonna do, you know?
Because I was stuck in the middle for the longest time
where I had these dedicated lines of regulars
that I was making.
I have certain growers that like to run those lines
and they're willing to go through my stuff,
but the hype market, which is the general consumer
who grows six or 10 plants,
who doesn't want anything to do with males,
they don't want anything to do with pheno hunting,
stuff that they don't know.
And so if they recognize it and they can pop it
and they can grow it real quick and smoke it
and they like it, that seems to be where it's at.
So the washers and the-
Yeah.
Yeah, it's for real.
I mean, people only see what we present like out front.
And I always talk about this,
like a lot of it is smoke and mirrors.
Like there's a few of us who don't care to front,
like we're rich or famous, you know, that are just farmers.
But a lot of people, it's all smoke and mirrors
and they present like they're fucking flexing,
fucking blinging chains and shit.
If you're wearing a gold chain
and like going to all these events everywhere,
you're probably not doing much growing
because most of us are tied to the fucking grow,
you know what I mean?
Yeah, smoke and mirrors is a lot.
And behind the scenes, ever since COVID,
there are seed makers and breeders alike, you know,
they'll message me and tell me that this is,
they're scared for their future
and they don't know who to talk to.
And it's hard, I don't have any answers
because I, fuck I'm, I'm in the same spot as all them,
you know, but it is what it is.
And people get the market that they pay for.
And eventually the people that have that small niche market
of the 2% that wants something unique,
that like running seeds to find their own unique thing,
that's not enough to hold over the whole market.
So eventually some, something's going to have to change
or we have to change to reflect the market.
Yeah, I know, I know.
I'm struggling like really bad right now.
I'm kind of worried with like,
if I'll have enough money for my bills next month
kind of thing, you know?
And there's a lot going on in the world.
There's a lot of potential in the world right now,
what's going on with all these countries coming online.
And I'm just like, man, I hope I can just get by long enough
to where I can get to a spot where I can be okay.
But yeah, I don't even know if I'll ever make it for that.
You know?
Yeah.
There's definitely a lot of soul searching going on
in the weed community right now, you know,
about what works.
And, you know, I think there's that natural human instinct
to like get good at a certain niche
or a certain aspect of something and keep doing it.
And you just want that to continue, right?
Because it works for you and you're good at it.
And then life throws you curve balls.
And, you know, one of the cool things
about like the 2015 era was how diverse it was.
How many different people could be involved
on different levels and make a living.
And now it's getting consolidated.
And, you know, the amount of people
that used to make a living off it
are probably not gonna make a living off it that time.
So how do you fit in?
How do you work?
How do you survive?
How do you make it happen?
You know?
And that's the thing is I'm noticing
that I don't fit into the new world.
Like I've tried to get jobs numerous times
at these new facilities or these new operations
that are licensed and I'm either not getting hired
or I'm getting ghosted once I get there
or I show up and it's so fucked up, I leave.
Yeah.
And so, yeah, I'm to the point now where I'm like,
nah, I'm gonna go take a job doing delivery
or doing something else and just grow my hobby weed
on my own and just be like, fuck the weed world.
But I'm still like, still trying to hold on.
You know, I've retired from the fact
that I will not be a licensed company.
Yeah.
A licensed cannabis company.
That's what that video a few months back was.
I'm retiring.
I'm getting the fuck out of this.
I'm done with it.
And I kind of misled people in the fact
that I was getting out of the weed world.
I was just saying I'm retiring from trying
to be a licensed company.
Yeah, it sounded great early on.
You know, like, oh, the weed people can finally,
the ones who've been fighting for this to make it legal,
fighting for legalization, finally get to grow.
We finally get to grow safely, not get guns put to our head,
not end up in prison, and that's rad.
And then that was all just wha, yanked out from under us.
I mean, there's an aspect too with that where, you know,
I mean, maybe some of the pricing was risk factor
and a willingness to take risks
and a willingness to have some balls
to do some of that stuff.
And, you know, and so as the risk goes out,
so does some of the probability.
And then the margins get tighter on things.
And, you know, the other part of it is, you know,
when we were talking about hype things is part of it
for older growers is that all of the skillsets
that kept us alive and safe for a long time
are starting to change.
So we wanted to be invisible.
We wanted to be low key.
I mean, when we were talking earlier
on the beginning of the show, I mean, he's, he basically,
you crawled out from under your rock
like 2014, 2015, right?
Not that long, you know, like,
so you were growing a long time and hiding
and staying quiet.
And now the people that are doing, you know,
somewhat better are really loud and really out there
and really promoting themselves.
And that's not the skillset most of us had.
Yeah, right.
Self-promotion, like we wanted the work to speak for you.
And then people were like, well, fuck the work.
I'll just say I have it.
Yeah.
And then I'll get people believing it's, I do, right?
And-
You see my gold chain, right?
You see my gold chain?
Shows I did the work.
But, you know, honestly, that type of thing
where you go to like a cookies opening
or something like that.
And there's various people standing there.
And like, they, you know, they want to think,
like they want their breeder hero to be a baller.
Yeah.
There's an aspect of that.
People do that because they're making money off
the image of being a baller breeder.
Yeah.
It's the car salesman mentality is most people
want to be sold on something and be convinced
that it's going to change their life.
And that way they can go then do the Kardashian thing
and show it the fuck off and be like,
look what I fucking got.
You know?
You know what's funny?
I have a good story that I heard the other day.
So one of our close friends,
his property almost burned down up in Humboldt area.
And he's more rotunda like me, shorter.
And that motherfucker was swimming across lakes
to water his plants.
Yeah.
Rivers, like a madman.
Like, and this is probably one of the most successful people
in our industry.
And he didn't think twice about going
and jumping in a fucking river to go water his plants daily
just because it was all, you know, sectioned off.
He couldn't drive up there.
Now that's, and like I heard you say too,
like, yeah, if it's all done,
then I'll just grow my hobby growing.
That's that.
Like, we don't stop.
But the people who love weed, it's not going to stop ever.
The thing is, is on that level, right?
It's that the part that annoys the fuck out of me
is like the way that they've, you know,
it almost makes me like talk about like,
maybe I'll get on my soapbox here for a second
and get pissed off.
But there's an aspect where it's, to me,
it's not really been made legal.
It's been made like taxed and regulated, right?
Yes.
Because like, if it was fully legal,
then, you know, theoretically speaking,
let's say like all the money went out of it.
Okay.
For whatever reason.
And all three of us on this podcast tonight
had to go out and get different jobs.
Yeah.
But if I could grow half my backyard
with a bunch of different things from my seeds
and make seeds and trade amongst other friends
and enthusiasts and share cuttings and all that,
not commercially, but just because we cared, right?
Yeah.
Now you're talking about like the heirloom vegetable market
before it got popular.
Yeah.
When it was just a bunch of enthusiasts
with going to like weird shows that nobody went to
about wheat, about tomatoes or about zucchinis
or about squash.
Now it's all the rage, heirlooms.
Yeah.
Think about how many decades those people kept
all of those old heirloom varieties
before the popularity came back.
So, you know, the way I look at it is like
six plants is an insult because that means
that you can't breed at home.
That's exactly what it means.
That means you need a license to breed weed.
You can't be real.
I mean, if you're gonna be a hobby breeder,
you can probably get away with it, realistically speaking.
But like, it's not legal where you can just like,
you know, control the sale of it if you want.
Yeah.
Right, but think about how much cool shit you could do.
There's a lot of weed people that just love weed
and they would grow weed,
even if it didn't have a financial benefit,
like a summer garden.
Yeah.
You know, for real, but you can't
because you can only have six fucking plants.
So they want you to go to a dispensary and buy them.
Yeah.
You know, any breeder knows you can't crack six seeds
and get anywhere on any kind of project you wanna do.
No, not really.
Not if you really care.
Not if you wanna make progress.
Yeah.
Not if you really care and wanna make progress.
No, so it's not really like,
I've gotten to the point where I don't even really
like discussing it as legal weed
because I look, there's no,
I can go to the liquor store
and how much money I have in my pocket,
I can buy as much liquor as I want.
Yeah.
I can buy booze, beer.
I can buy Dom Perignon.
I can buy-
Kegs and kegs.
Kegs and kegs.
I can fill a whole garage in my house with it.
I can give it out to friends.
I can share, I can throw a party in my backyard
and have a hundred people over and give it away for free.
So like when weed gets treated like alcohol or vegetables,
I'll start thinking of it as legal.
Yeah.
I like what Ring said right here.
He said, the lack of cash has only reinforced
how much everyone who is getting out of it
was into it to begin with.
Yeah.
Him and I have been joking about it actually
because we don't live very far from each other at all.
And we both moved to Mendo
when it was kind of like depressed and weird.
And so you saw this enormous green rush,
rush in for the money.
Yeah.
And now as the money's been really hard
the last two or three years,
you see like the reverse green rush
where most of them didn't want to live there
unless they could make a bunch of easy money.
Yeah.
Yeah, for sure.
So Southern Humble, oh my God,
Southern Humble is making such bad shape right now.
It is.
It makes me nervous.
Like for the first time ever,
like I think the triangle has been cut off
to the point where it could actually suffocate.
Yeah, it's coming to a close.
Trinity, Southern Humble, Mendo,
the way that everything got built up,
the structure of how people cut deals with each other
and grew weed and all the various aspects,
it's an enormous danger.
Anybody see the Dark Horse Breeding Facility?
What the fuck are they gonna do with that?
He buys all his seeds from breeders.
Blah!
Sorry.
I mean, people might not want to know this or whatever,
and this might be dissing them or whatnot,
but I'll say it anyway.
Dark Heart is one of them.
But there was a number of early nurseries
that became nurseries
because they were so bad at growing flour
that their flour, even in the 215 era,
was hard to move through anywhere.
And so when you're growing a bunch of warehouses
in the bay of B and C grade indoor,
like a few of these companies flipped into clones
because that was just easier, right?
Because they couldn't grow good bud.
And then they take bad health practices
and they spread viruses and diseases all over California
before anybody had an idea of what was going on.
Yeah, speaking of which, speaking of which,
let me plug this in real quick.
On September 9th, we are going to be having the people,
I'm not gonna say their name
because people just snipe everyone on shows, I guess,
but the foremost experts on the Hopslate and thyroid
doing studies out of Peru.
And they're fucking killing it,
so we're gonna have them on to cover
and try to figure out all this shit.
And it's gonna be a really cool show
because there's a lot of,
maybe we'll call it, we've called it bro science.
Yes.
There's a lot of ineffective sterilization ideas out there.
And there's a lot of ways that people don't understand
how it moves around and how clean practices work.
And when we all got started in the 90s,
you could have one razor blade.
It was like the most unprotected, like carefree.
You basically use the razor blade until it got dull.
Yeah.
And now it's almost like you wanna be like a tattoo artist
where you've got clean tools
for every single tattoo you're giving.
So every single plant, right?
If you really don't wanna spread things,
you have to kind of take that sort of like
that new approach.
Yeah.
And we're still learning a bunch about it, honestly.
Yeah.
So I just wanted to put that in there.
It'll be an excellent episode
and we'll try to uncover some of the myths going around,
like it being transmissible in seed, if that's a fact,
if it's not, you know, there's all kinds of stuff.
I was working with a plant scientist from Brazil
at a nursery in Redwood Valley last year.
And she was working on hops, byroid and other plants
for quite a few years prior to getting into cannabis.
And she was saying that it was a 20% transmissible
through breeding in disease
in other varieties of plant species.
And so she was assuming that it would also transfer
over into cannabis as well.
From what they've seen,
there's been zero transmission in cannabis
as far as the cannabis species.
It was, and with hemp,
it was 8% transmissibility or six or something.
It's something very low, but in cannabis,
for some reason, it's not, they're not seeing any.
So we can hope that it's gonna stay that way
or maybe it's just undetectable
with what our tools are currently.
But I guess we're gonna see.
I mean, a viroid is even tinier than a virus.
Yes, yes.
That's what makes it so hard to kill.
You're really talking about.
It's not even like a living thing.
It's almost like a colt.
It's like a collection of,
it's like a little piece of data floating around
waiting to attach to the right thing.
Yeah, a district, I just watched it this morning
and they're the experts and they said 8%.
So suck my dick.
Did I hear correctly that dark heart nurse
or dark heart nurse?
Of course.
Yeah, and not so transcribed,
dark horse or dark heart.
I did, I did.
I said I was slow.
I don't know what happened, but that's where I went.
I'm getting the faster scientist district.
That's what I heard.
Was it dark heart?
I heard they're going out of business.
Is that correct?
Oh, I did hear that, but I'm not sure.
But yeah, I did hear that.
Okay, yeah, I wasn't sure.
I didn't know if that was a rumor
or if that was for real or not.
They said they came up with a cure or a treatment program.
Yes.
And then other opposing nurseries bought plants from them
and still had the viroid.
Well, I mean, they supplied the viroid
and passed the viroid massively.
So they had to come up with the solution
so they could make money off it again
and then it got fucked.
Yeah.
Well, then they were promoting that new
non-breedable clone stock.
Yeah, yeah.
I remember hearing about that.
They're multiplying the plant with corn.
Kind of like corn where all the corn farmers,
you can't breed that corn.
You've got to buy seed every year
if you want to grow it because it's not breedable.
And I heard that's what dark heart was doing.
They just announced that like a month ago.
Yeah.
There's an aspect right now,
and I think this is probably going to be
like a big deal in the next 10 to 20 years
where like if you're going to have this industry
that's going to be worth billions
and billions of dollars nationwide,
they just can't accept that like all of these strains
right now are basically open source.
People are going to want to lock that shit in.
Oh yeah.
And they're going to want to control things.
And they're, because you guys know,
every breeder knows, right?
You can make Chili Verde or NL5 Hayes or Punchy Blue,
whatever, you know, any strain you name.
As soon as you sell it, it's out of the blue.
As soon as you sell it, it's out, right?
And you don't control it anymore.
People can buy it from you.
People can make their own seeds.
People can sell their own seeds.
You know, people could, he, you know,
he can make a deal with a nursery
to like have verified Chili Verde.
And another nursery could buy a hundred of clones
and grow up all those moms and start selling them.
And he has nothing to do with it.
So once you release things into the world, they're gone.
Oh yeah.
And so people don't like, you know,
corporations and big companies, they don't like that.
They like, like, you know,
intellectual property, if you will.
And so it's really weird because, you know,
there's an argument where it's like,
there's companies going around right now
trying to make like marketing deals
with various collectors and breeders to get old stock.
Yeah.
Right.
And then that person would get kickbacks,
but who should get a kickback for it?
This person.
I've seen a lot of that talked about.
I've never seen anybody really be paid a kickback yet.
No, I get it.
But I'm just saying like,
people are kicking around ideas,
but all that is, all that's coming.
All that's going to try to be more standardized.
You know?
Maybe.
I was offered royalties on Chili Verde
through like Dark Heart, a few other places.
And, but it was on a stipulation that I had a state license
and that I was then going to sell them
the one clone first.
And then from then they could give me royalties back
on everything.
Yeah.
But you better be licensed.
You better be licensed, huh?
But that's what I mean, right?
So let's say they make a deal with you.
And every clone that they sell of that thing,
they give you a percentage.
But I buy 500 clones from them and I take it to my nursery
and I don't have any deal with that.
And I start selling thousands of clones
of Chili Verde a month.
And none of that residual goes to him.
Because I don't have a deal with him.
I just bought this thing from a nursery.
I don't owe anybody anything.
I own it now.
It's mine.
You can suck it.
So that's been a problem the whole time.
And it actually is like back in the day,
it's to some degree why one of the reasons
why a lot of breeders started not wanting to tell you
what's in their work.
Because they didn't want people to know.
That it's like they wanted it to be secret sauce
because they didn't have any control over it.
Once you release it, it's out there.
It's gone.
You know, in the last few seed sessions
that we've had seed swaps up in Southern Humboldt,
I've seen an influx of people coming in
that are from out of the area.
And they literally go and buy seed
from every single fucking person at the whole entire place.
And they buy everything of what that person has.
And then they walk out with a whole box full of seeds.
And I'm like, that's not what you normally see.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
Because we've been running those swaps up there
for a couple of years.
Yeah, that's an anomaly, dude.
Yeah, three or four years we were doing these swaps.
And then it was always locals come in,
doing a little bit of trading,
maybe buying a few seeds here and there.
But nothing like that.
And then this last six months or so,
I was just watching these people come in
and I'm like, they're collecting for somebody big.
Like, what the fuck, you know?
One of these big farms out there
that are just getting geared up to go public.
Yeah.
But it's that thing where it's like,
we've got decades of, I hope it all stays open source.
I hope it's pretty punk rock in that regard.
And it's like, I'm not saying that like in the future,
they might not lock things in
where they can put like genetic markers
into certain breeding lines where you can tell
it's from that.
But I basically think that like everything
from the beginning of cannabis to 2018 or 19
should be, it's just out there.
Yeah, honestly, you know,
and it might be shitty for some people,
but it's like, otherwise everyone's gonna lock it in
and control it.
And then people are gonna, that's what will happen
is people will get sued like Monsanto.
You know, right now the US is like gonna be
one of the last, like we're way behind.
Cause like, if you look at like Columbia right now,
Columbia is already on the move to do that.
They're already looking at licensing
and holding onto these genetics and calling them there
being set up for worldwide distribution.
And so the US is lagging.
And in that regard of being on top of licensing
these genetics and we are, we will stay open source here
for a long time because of the lack of the government
wanting to really open up ganja here.
I think the entire market in Columbia
is just kind of kicking around getting started,
hoping that America opens up.
Yeah, that's where I think,
I think that a lot of these people
that are going to third world countries right now
and these other places trying to set up shop
are trying to have their roots in if it goes federal
so they can export from this place that doesn't have OSHA
and doesn't have this and doesn't have that.
I think that's really what it is,
is that they're not down there
to try to make a bunch of money in Columbia.
Like that's cool if it happens,
but they're hoping that our market opens.
Yeah, you know, Thailand's kind of interesting right now
to see what's going on there
because they've just opened up hemp
and they're letting everybody sell it,
just open anywhere and there's no age limit on it.
But everybody's already growing ganja.
They're using like kind of how we did with the CBD thing.
They're selling weed as hemp.
And so, but it's supposed to be for export only,
really not supposed to be consuming it.
And so kind of curious to see how that's going to go.
But I've already seen two or three US companies,
feed companies that are already there.
And I'm like, how does that work out?
They're like, how did you do that?
And so.
Well, get us there, buddy.
Get us there.
Yeah, you know, if I can make some money
over the next two months or so,
I wanna go to Thailand for a while.
My wife or my fiancees are waiting for me.
And yeah, it could be something big for me.
I'm looking forward to that.
I haven't seen it.
So everyone watching, let's support our homeboy
and get him to Thailand.
See what's up there.
I mean, this is one of the dudes
who will actually go chase down land races and stuff.
So it's beneficial to all of us to get in there.
Yeah, yeah, I'm looking at getting over there.
So I have a fiance that's from Thailand.
A couple years ago, she lost her visa,
mostly because of what I do and who I am.
Yeah.
And so they sent her back
and I haven't seen her in almost three years.
But.
That's sad, man.
Yeah, and getting my passport was a nightmare.
I had some problems when I was younger,
living on the border.
Yeah.
And the first time I applied for my passport,
they denied me.
Then they gave me COVID bullshit, they got lost.
And so it took me almost two years to get my passport.
And I finally got it.
And now I'm ready to go.
But yeah, now I just have to make a little bit of money
if I can afford to go.
Yeah, finances.
Moving in state, moving in cities, expensive as fuck.
I can't even imagine moving out of the country.
How expensive that is.
Yeah, I'm not sure if I can actually move full time
because I have to go over there, we'll get married.
Then I can apply for a marriage visa.
Yeah.
Which will open it up for trying to get dual citizenship.
And then I can move there.
But I wouldn't be able to stay there full time
unless the Thai government approved it.
And I heard that's kind of really difficult.
Yeah.
So yeah, we'll see how it goes.
Yeah.
Dude, I watched 90 Day Fiance, man.
That shit's crazy with the passports and immigration
and all that stuff between countries.
It's insane, dude.
Yeah, you know, everybody keeps telling me
I need to watch that show.
But I don't have the data.
Dude, yeah.
I don't have the data.
But I'm like, I'm living it, so.
Yeah, dude.
Yeah, a lot of it on that show is sex tourism.
So it's just like the craziest motherfuckers
doing the craziest shit.
But every once in a while, there's good people on there.
And it's crazy what they put them through.
Yeah.
Awesome.
Cool, cool.
Yeah, you know, my fiance, she's amazing.
I look forward to getting over there.
She's a good woman.
Yeah, she sounds like,
especially if you took such a big hit for you.
Like that's a partner, man.
That's a partner.
Yeah, we made the mistake of,
I sent her some pictures on her phone of the farm
when she was gonna come stay with me.
And when she got the customs,
they went through her phone and found the pictures
and were like, oh yeah, no.
Oh no.
So that was.
Something that small, really.
Oh yeah, yeah.
I've had trimmers that would fly in,
that worked for me for years.
And sometimes when the smartphone era happened,
they can absolutely look through everything they want
and then see if they wanna let you in.
Yeah, Nazis used to fly men in from Amsterdam constantly.
Men, yes.
And they would check their phones.
Men.
Horrible.
Horrible.
But yeah, they will look, I mean, it's,
you know, American is sort of like
the gold standard passport to travel around.
But we're not the easiest, most welcoming place
to get into for lots of countries.
No, not at all.
Especially in the last two, three years,
it's gotten to where they don't wanna let anybody in.
It's really difficult.
Yeah, so free movement of people hasn't been the easiest.
Yeah.
But.
Was there anything else you wanna cover tonight?
Like, is there any projects we haven't talked about
that you wanna talk about?
I've been doing some collaborations with Ryan
over at Wolfbauer Nursery, a radio label.
Ryan's been helping me out tremendously.
Him and Eva are amazing people.
They're kind of basically holding my stock,
my genetics for me.
Because I have.
They got all our shit, man.
I love them.
I do love them.
They've been.
Ryan is a good person.
They are, yes.
They're good people.
And this is Radio Ridge that I refer to often.
Wolfbauer Radio Ridge, right?
Yeah, Wolfbauer is Radio Ridge, yes.
Yes, yeah.
So.
So yeah, I've been working with Ryan.
He's helping me on this collaboration with these fans.
And so, yeah, it's been really good.
But like I said, just the last few months
have been really difficult financially.
So yeah, it is what it is.
I try not to get down too much,
but I'm one of those depressed kind of people already.
So it's like.
Dude, this far into the week game,
if you're not jaded,
then you're not realistic with yourself.
I mean, it.
It's positive failure, no matter what you do.
Well, you know, if I was more into being self-promoting
and being one of these guys who's on the internet,
like just blowing myself up and constantly being there,
I'd be way better off.
But I'm one of those guys that like,
I haven't been online.
And when people come at me, I'm like, it is what it is.
This is, buy it or don't buy it.
I don't give a fuck.
Yeah, yeah.
Not the greatest sales technique.
No, I have that issue too.
Yeah, like trying to like push yourself,
you feel like you used to our salesman,
like these seats are great.
I felt like a fucking slime ball.
So what's the fucking point?
Yeah, it's hard, man.
It's hard.
Yeah.
And then, yeah, so.
But yeah, that's pretty much what's going on with me.
I'm just focused on trying to get to Thailand.
And then after that, I don't know.
What do you do after that?
It's kind of up in the air.
Someone real quick, someone asked if your cream
is good for eczema, his son has eczema.
It is, it's very good for eczema.
Depending on the condition of the eczema,
it can take anywhere from a couple of weeks
to a couple of months to see improvement.
But yeah, I've had very good success with eczema.
Very cool, very cool.
Hopefully that helps his son.
Yeah, the cocoa cream, not the cinnamon.
There you go, cocoa cream.
Cocoa cream.
Remember that.
You wanna do your end of the night spiel, Matt?
Yeah, and you can find all that at hpktopples.com.
Is there a good place for people to find your seeds?
Seeds, yeah, so there's a couple seed banks
that sell my stuff, or you can go through me directly.
But if you wanna go through a bank,
there's Immaculate Seeds, there's Pino Paradise,
there's Daggalove, and then Neptune,
some of Neptune's sub-banks carry my stuff,
but I'm not sure exactly which ones.
And so yeah, or just contact me directly.
And from time to time, I'll throw some stuff up
on my website as well.
You're more likely to get cool extras and shit
if you buy from Breeders Direct, like Breeders Directly.
Like they, you know, so hit them up.
Yeah, yeah, I'm always pretty good
about throwing in a bunch of extras,
and I'm pretty good about it.
But I'm old school, like, it's still,
you gotta call me.
Yeah, indeed, indeed.
All right, and we have our Breeders Syndicate Patreon
where we all hang out, come join us.
We have three different tiers.
We have like a five, 15, and 50.
They all come with different stuff.
The five gets you into the Discord,
and that's where we all hang out and shoot the shit.
Think there's some fights we're watching tomorrow.
He has an Instagram handle, it's HPKGenetics,
isn't that right?
Yes.
HPKGenetics on Instagram.
Everybody give the man a follow.
He's been a good friend of mine for a long time.
I appreciate having him here.
It's good to see you, Eric,
and thank you for spending time with everyone.
Yeah, and we appreciate everybody's Friday night.
We appreciate everybody chatting.
Come chat with us on the Discord.
You can always DM and reach out to us,
and we're always appreciative for listening.
Yep, that's about it, yeah.
Check you guys later.
Thanks for coming, Eric.
You guys have a good night.
Cheers.
Thanks, guys.
Good night.
