Ready, go!
Music
Welcome to Breeder's Syndicate.
Music
Yeah, I don't know how to do this shit.
Ha ha, you got it.
Does that work?
Yep, that's perfect dude.
Cool.
Alright, how are you doing today?
Pretty good, how about yourself?
Good, they had some good questions at first.
Do you know about any of the history of Trinity?
The cut that's going around.
Just that it came out of Eugene, really.
I don't really know anything else other than that.
The one that I've seen recently does not remind me of what I used to buy out of Eugene.
That's interesting.
The more recent thing is a lot more modern, sweet smelling.
Yeah.
And I just remember that all the Trinity that I ever saw, even the different phenos, or whatever jars of weed that were coming around that were called Trinity, it always was burnt rubber.
It wasn't roadkill, it was burnt rubber.
Yeah, the newest Trinity, a lot of them have dud branches, and I ended up with one of the fucking dud branches.
And it spreads pretty quick.
Oh, yeah.
Especially if you're not keeping the shit.
The dudding likes to proliferate in low light.
Absolutely, dude.
And fungus gnats seem to be a vector.
Yeah, I've heard that in aphids and thrips.
Yeah, pretty much anything that chews on your plants is probably going to be a pretty good vector for it, and in particular, chews on your roots also.
Yeah, it's one of those that has the fucking rubbery stems with no texture, tree flowers everywhere.
Yeah, totally.
Ugly fucking things.
All right, here's a good question.
Who's your favorite breeder, dude?
I don't know.
I mean, for me, it's just there's good varieties.
That's it, you know?
My favorite breeder is Accidental Herming.
How about that?
Yeah, did you have a breeder you looked up to when you first started, though?
Not in particular.
I was just a seed buyer.
I don't idolize people that much, you know?
So it wasn't really about the person so much to me as it was just the product that came out of it.
That was it.
Yeah, a lot of the people that I got into, I immediately regretted once I met them.
Like DJ Short and some other people.
They just don't want to talk about shit.
Yeah, and I had the benefit of having met a lot of those people early in my career or have run across them with the Seattle Hemp Fest stuff and all that kind of shit.
So, you know, what's that saying about not meeting your heroes because they might not stand up to the standard you have in your mind or whatever?
So for me, it wasn't so much about the person.
It was what kind of work you're doing and what are the results from it.
That's it.
Yeah, I think that's a pretty smart answer, too, because a lot of people are dicks that do good work.
Right.
And, you know, I'm here for the genetics.
I don't really care about who you are.
It really has nothing to do with it for me personally.
Yeah.
What are your thoughts on the whole Phylos thing going down?
What did you think at all?
Does it matter?
I mean, I think a lot of people are have miss misguided attention.
Right.
You know, they don't really have that much data.
You know, they have short sequence genome testing.
Right.
And if you listen to Kevin shit, he you know, he's much more knowledgeable about the whole type, the whole the science behind it than anything.
So for me, it was just like, you know, what are they really going to be able to do with it anyways?
And they like a bunch of my stuff is in their galaxy that I didn't send in because they're able to just go purchase the product.
Oh, yeah.
And put it in.
So, like, you know, what are you really going to do?
Right.
Not only can you not send them the product and all these other things, but you can't have your product on the shelf somewhere because they can just buy it, put the fucking stem in and then do their short sequence analysis.
So what, you know, what are you going to do to stop it?
Even if there were even if they even if they were legitimate about it or weren't, what difference is it going to make?
They can still acquire all the data that they want anyways.
So the short sequence data.
Yeah, I think Kevin said it best, dude.
Like when he broke it down, explain how it works.
What's that, Kevin?
From medicinal genomics, when he broke it down and explained how it works, that like he ran their data through his software and it just dumped everything out as invalid.
Sure.
Yeah, I think people are missing the main, main points.
Yeah, they lied.
We all get that.
Yeah, that's the only way.
So does 95% of everybody else that exists in this space, too.
Yeah.
You know, that's that's why I call out so many people is because there's blatant evidence.
It's not even me just like making shit up.
There's high times articles where they fucking admit to the shit.
Yeah.
It's like, what else?
You know, what are you going to what do you expect?
Yeah.
What else you guys got?
Let's get some good strain history questions.
Oh, I got one for you.
I got one for you so we can put to rest some shit.
Purple.
Mad farmers family or not.
I haven't really read into it, but I find it highly unlikely.
Yeah, it's it's probably the same odds as creepy coming from Kauai and making Odean.
Exactly.
You know, or what other 20 different fucked up stories that someone has made up in the last 10 years that is obvious bullshit that some for some reason people perpetuate.
I don't even know.
Yeah, I have no idea.
Same reason we still hear fucking OG Kush is what?
Kim Paki lemon Thai.
Yeah, the ocean grown story.
It's like how many times do like how many people have to say how I see that person is for people to stop believing.
All right, here we go.
What do you know about the Oregon funk and or blue dots?
Do you have any experience with them?
Blue dot, like I said last time was a cut down the Bay Area and what was the other one?
Oregon funk.
I never saw Oregon funk.
Yeah.
How do you feel about the Josh D story?
I mean every person that I know that got OG back then it all leads back to Josh.
Yeah, so it's you know, from my perspective.
It's as legitimate as it comes.
Everybody traces back to him.
Yeah.
Yep.
I think that's the one of the only few people that actually can has everybody trace back to him.
That wasn't 100% full of shit.
And I saw I saw pictures of people that were like, oh, I'm a fan of Josh.
And I saw I saw pictures like the Nick the film negatives from Josh of him and Matt and then the next picture in the film negatives is OG Kush, right?
It's it's I mean the plant is really easy to identify once you know.
And so it's it's pretty obvious to me that they got more evidence of having it back in the late 90s than anybody else I've ever met.
Yep.
What do you feel was your most slept on release?
I don't know.
I mean, you know certain stuff you just expect to move slow because it doesn't have a brand name.
I mean dog shit crosses even as popular as it was back in the Northwest back in the day.
I guess the name doesn't translate.
Well, yeah, I could see that dude.
The cat piss crosses also same thing.
It's not really that popular but the name was always really popular man.
The San Diego cat piss is a fucking legend though.
Like like being from San Diego and shit like that was the bomb, you know, I can't believe that doesn't sell better than it does.
Yeah, it's you know, you just don't have people rapping about it.
I guess there you go.
Maybe maybe if it had been called cheetah piss, we'd all it all be fun.
Cheetah cookie piss.
Cheetah cookie piss.
Yeah, lion piss my bad.
Bobcat piss.
Let's see what we got.
Albert Walker crossed the face off.
Is it coming back?
I never released it.
You never released it.
Yeah, that never got sold.
I just had the Albert Walker manic line.
Now is the number 32 line.
Yeah, that sounds cool.
What can you what can you tell us about the manic?
That came from Shroomy.
It was there was a female and a male that came from he said they came from some family in the humble.
They had IBL it.
No one had no one that I knew had a use the mail yet.
So I just I have to them and then made hybrids with it.
Okay, what's your man?
The manic female was like purple oracle without the purple smell.
Oh, really?
Yeah, like same growth pattern.
Real similar blood structure.
It got it would turn purple on the tops and it just had that like really sweet skunky smell that that that oracle has but just without that like purple lavender kind of top end.
Yeah, I was not interesting with her.
As it as it as it grows like when it's first in bloom, it's really skunky and you wouldn't expect it to turn grapey at the end.
Yeah, if you grow it right, it can finish pretty skunky to Wow.
Urkel and manic both.
Here's one Golden Coast Brotherhood of Eternal Love Afghan.
Anyone ran it?
I have no idea.
Yeah, I actually have.
I've run it.
It's a it's a good Afghan, but it's not skunky.
It's not anything that wasn't what I was looking for.
What's your what's your rules on breeding with your gear?
Oh, I mean, it's not about my gear or their gear or whatever.
It's just put in some work so that we have differentiation between people selections in their line.
So if you're not putting any selections in them, what are you really doing?
You're just putting more of the same thing into the gene pool.
Yeah.
And poorly selected that if you didn't do any selection work.
Yeah.
If it's just popping a pack of seeds and picking the first female.
Yeah.
Right.
You could get really lucky or you could just be proliferating a bunch of garbage under the same name.
And now it's either diluting the original work or maybe it makes it better in certain cases.
But in most cases, it doesn't.
Yeah.
Is it true?
I'm going to put farm split up.
Who cares?
Let's see what we got.
There's got to be better questions than that.
Wasn't Alien the breeder of Fruity Pebbles OG?
Yeah, I'm pretty sure Alien Genetics was.
Oh, sweet God.
Did you ever find anything worthwhile in the Dutch flower stuff?
Nope.
All right.
What was your first strain that you sold, Matt?
Probably the 32 line.
Yeah.
32?
What's that?
The Albert Walker Manic line.
The Albert Walker Manic male crossed with Sour Kush.
I don't think I sold any Albert Walker BX ones, but Sour Kush, Original Diesel, Master Kush, a couple other things.
I can't remember.
Are you pretty good about keeping back stock of stuff and preserving your own lines and holding back stock of it?
Yeah, I have everything.
I have every seed of everything that's ever been made.
I have thousands of seeds of everything that's ever been made.
Really?
That I made, yeah.
I'm going to have to blow you for something then.
All right.
And then I just pop pretty much all the old seeds that I have from 15 years ago, and that's it.
That's awesome.
And so all I'll have left is just seeds that I've made.
Let's see.
Archive has very gassy turps.
What other flavor profiles do you feel you have dialed in aside from gassy?
That's pretty much what I breed for, skunky.
I mean, every other flavor out there, but it has to be skunky.
What's your fastest finishing release?
Probably a shark bite, but I don't think I've put any of that out in a while.
Let's get some strain history questions.
Come on, y'all.
Super Dave, this guy keeps asking about Super Dave genetics.
I don't even know what that is.
Do you?
He's just a dude up here in Washington.
I don't know a whole lot about him or haven't seen a lot of his work.
Yeah, it's hard to comment on shit like that.
Why do I think the bland shit becomes popular?
It's because the whole world is turning into a consumed by visual marketing.
So if it looks good, people want to buy it.
Even though the vast majority of really, really tasty strains don't look the best
because you're selecting for terpenes and flavor, not for visual appeal.
And when no one was taking pictures of their bag of weed because they didn't want to get busted,
the best selling point was what it smelled like when it opened up.
When you opened up a bag.
Did we cover Albert Walker last time?
Where it originated from?
I don't think we did.
Maybe, I'm not sure.
I don't think we did, maybe.
Yeah, let's hear it.
I got it from my buddy, Canvas Reverend up here.
And he got it from this other kid who got it from the old timer.
And that dude lived like an hour and a half away.
We were just buying the herb back then.
Canvas Reverend happened to get a cut one time.
I think he took it down to Oregon, lost it, and then reacquired it again.
This was like 2003, probably.
Yeah, 2003.
And like 10 years later, the guy that we got the cut from, he hit me up.
Or like, I guess it was like 2013 or yeah, like 10 years.
He hit me up as the medical scene started coming on.
It was like, I'm the one that gave that to your buddy, right?
And he knew all the same people.
So it was obviously him.
And we sat down and had some beers.
And he said that it came from a electrician plumber dude that was,
I think it was in the Portland area or like Vancouver, Washington.
And he had moved out from Iowa or something like that.
And when the old timer up here, he got the clone when he got his electricity
and his plumbing done for his grow room like, you know, 15, 20 years ago,
like mid 90s, late 90s.
Yeah.
And that's where he had got it from.
And then I had another guy come up to me at Emerald Cup.
And he said that he was the one that popped the seed in Iowa.
And he was telling me that he had given it to like three or four people.
He only grew it for like six months or a year or something like that.
And he gave it to a few people.
And one of those guys moved to Vancouver, Washington, I think it was.
Right.
So the story is kind of lined up and I hadn't given him any information
about what I knew about it.
And he said that he had received the seeds from the bass player of culture.
Right.
The reggae band.
And that he had popped them.
And that's that's what it was.
Well, but he didn't know what the actual origin of the seeds were like
with the bass player.
Yeah.
That's pretty fun.
It came back.
So like that.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, I'm one of the very few companies that's working with it.
Right.
And is known for that one.
And I mean, you know, we entered it into the can of Bible with Jason King.
So, yeah.
Anyways, they those guys, I mean, you know how much of it's true.
I don't know exactly.
I mean, the guy that we got it from,
I believe his story because he had nothing to gain from making anything up.
And then the guy that came up, it just happened to match up with the rest
of the story.
So that's pretty fun.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Sometimes it works out.
And, you know, our Walker is a pretty unique name.
So it's a it's easy to know if you are or not what you're talking about.
Yeah, absolutely.
There's a lot of fake Albert Walker going around that I remember from San
Diego.
Yeah.
I mean, I think it's a pretty unique name.
Yeah.
Well, that was that eight cut from when.
Yeah, he got given it and got mixed up and then sold it with the wrong name.
And, you know, that's the one that's that.
That cuts equally also good, I suppose, because it's been winning stuff down
there.
Yeah.
Called Albert Walker.
Yeah, it's not bad.
The Dago Walker.
It's not bad.
Just totally not Albert Walker.
Right.
See what else we've got.
Do you have any other passion strings?
Besides the skunk or turps besides the skunk?
Anything, anything like any, any like pass turps that you're passionate about?
Like, I have my strawberry and blueberry that I always seem to fucking
navigate to.
Do you have a skunk?
Nope, nope.
Just not really.
Well, no, it just has to have a long lasting after flavor.
And that typically tends to be the stuff that's either really skunky or
really incense.
One or the other.
Yeah.
Make sense.
What else we got here?
Need to put on my fucking old lady glasses so I can fucking see.
The ape cut.
Yeah, I think apes doing stuff again.
Now he seems to have his farm back up.
You still talk to that?
Oh, yeah.
What's that?
You still talk to him?
I never talked to him.
I never knew him.
Oh, really?
Yeah, I knew him.
Yeah, I didn't give him the clone.
It came from wick.
Yeah.
I didn't give him the clone.
I didn't give him the clone.
I didn't give him the clone.
I didn't give him the clone.
Yeah, I didn't give him the clone.
It came from wick.
Oh, fucking wick.
Fucking wick.
Yeah.
Probably in here.
Fucking wick.
Yeah, I didn't give him.
I never met him.
Didn't give him anything.
Someone said bring back the 32 line, please.
Yeah, that would be pretty cool.
Yeah, I mean, you know, him and three other people.
Gee.
Interested in all that kind of stuff.
History of Skywalker OG.
I mean, a million different stories.
Yeah, I think they're confusing the Blueberry Mazor Skywalker with Skywalker OG.
Nope.
That was the Jedi OG was the Blueberry one.
The Skywalker.
The earliest I ever heard about it was a buddy of mine in Southern Oregon was a growing ghost OG.
He used to the guy from I remember this because I used to I took him actually my Omega Garden.
Omega Gardens when I was done running them because he wanted to run them.
And he used to take all his herb down to the guy that owns calm and Malibu.
Right.
Yeah.
And they already had a like ghost OG on the shelf.
Right.
So they just called it Skywalker OG because the Star Wars films were coming out.
You remember it was like 2004 2005 when the Star Wars films like re came out.
Yeah.
Right.
Yeah.
That was it was like good marketing, you know, it's like the same reason with the blue IV OG when Jay-Z had his kid and like, you know, they always do that in LA whenever the when when Whitney Houston died.
There was a Whitney Houston OG, you know, I remember.
Yeah, fucking stupid.
Right.
So which cuts which and you know, and after that, then there actually became like a differentiated Skywalker OG clone.
Right.
That like went around LA and whether or not that's a s1 or some who knows right now.
Yeah.
Since when have you been washing your own genetics?
I don't know.
No, that's not a good one.
Do you know much about the A5 and C5?
The males the A5 Hayes and the C5 Hayes.
Not really.
I guess but there's there are females of it.
Yeah.
Not yeah, I don't know anything.
I'm not from Amsterdam.
There was a good one just a few seconds ago.
See,
Como, your yields will only go up if you wear socks.
Yeah, when you do it.
Yeah, socks and cocks and that's it.
Archive had them sour grapes, right?
You have a sour grapes?
No, I didn't think so.
Tony girl and how about bull rider?
What do you know about bull rider?
Nothing.
Nothing.
Yeah.
No, that's a real hard strain to track down like the original.
I see Afghani bull rider all the time, but not the original bull rider.
Yeah, only bull rider ever saw came from Danimal and had to be fake because it sucked and it's Danimal.
Exactly.
South fuck.
We did the the purple Indica last time so you can go watch that.
Lineage on face off.
We also did last time I believe.
Like the barbecue and yeah.
Yeah, face off back seats from Cassis.
Yeah.
Any old long lost varieties from your past you wish were still around?
Yeah, there's definitely some good ones.
I never saw much of it, but the freezing orange that was up here.
I've seen bugs of it that people say is it since but my buddies that I trust up here.
They say it used to be awesome.
There was this strain called coral reef that was at that was in Northern California.
Yeah, it was like a spittles type thing.
Just weird, crazy, incredible different smell tasted just like it smell.
What else is gold humble gold was pretty good that reefer man had.
Or something gold that they had that that was shit was pretty good.
What was it?
The Kodiak gold or is it?
No, it wasn't.
It wasn't the Alaskan one.
It was something else is like humble or Mendocino something gold.
Oh interesting.
Yeah.
If you could change one thing about dosey dose, what would it be?
I mean, there's no there's good.
There's good phenotypes in all this in all that but there's definitely some Hermes and dosey.
Though.
I mean, it's like if you've ever grown OG KB, it throws balls on the bottoms.
It throws bananas out the tops and it'll throw clusters inside the colas, you know, so just try to reduce it.
That to as little of an occurrence as possible is like put some of the hardest work.
So I wish it didn't have that trait.
So I didn't have to spend so much time trying to get that.
Yeah, for sure.
I get plenty of strong flavor in the dosey though.
Just the NorCal cut that goes around is kind of a in between for everything.
It's not even a cut.
I keep personally really there's one dude.
Yeah, there's a lot better stuff in the seeds than the clones that go around but that's a true with anything.
There's probably better wedding cake seed phenos that go around.
It's probably better of everything because most of that shit is small population selection.
So you just got to, you know, absolutely, especially from that first release.
So I think it's a good thing.
Small population selection, so you just got to, you know, absolutely, especially from that first release.
How many people have you know, there's it's I mean, I've grown so many fucking seeds over the last 15 years and there's been Hermes and almost every pack of seeds I've ever grown and the ones that didn't ever have Hermes had super swag fucking weed.
Yeah.
So what you know, like, what are you going to deal with?
Yeah, I don't know.
I think when people are good growers, they don't really focus so much on that.
They just deal with it.
You know what I mean?
Like when it comes to fucking Hermes and shit, just handle it.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, what do you want swag weed or no Hermes?
You can't breathe for everything all at once.
Right?
I mean, what you are trying to do is reduce the occurrences, but it doesn't matter if you're talking about chem 91, chem 4, OGKB, cookies, sherbert, gelatos, skittles.
If you stress the original mother plant, it'll harm.
Right?
So how are you going to, how are you going to expect anything else?
Here's a good one.
Can you talk about the amnesia cut you use?
It's the amnesia haze cut from Amsterdam or whatever.
Is it that core cut?
Yeah, exactly.
I mean, I've seen people call it the same cut.
It's super lemon haze also.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So what else we got, guys?
Are we ignoring the face-off question or just not saying?
No, we answered it in the last time me and him did a live feed, and that's up on YouTube, Tyler.
How many weeks should Sour D go?
Ten for sure.
Yeah.
As many as you like it, where you like it.
Yeah, at least ten.
Yep.
Ever heard of ultraviolet?
I mean, that's like the very earliest you could get it for sure.
Ever heard of ultraviolet?
We talked about that last time.
Yeah, that was the purple indigo face-off cross.
Any collabs with other breeders?
That's not really my thing.
Yeah.
They're already collabing with me anyways half the time.
Yeah, using your stuff, yeah.
So, it's cool.
Cool, works either way.
Yep.
Let's see what else we got.
Give me some good strain history questions you guys got.
Is there any strain that you want to run the history on that you'd like to, like, that has some misinformation out there?
There's got to be so many.
Yeah, pretty much everything.
Yeah.
Yeah, I don't know.
Nothing's coming to mind right now.
Shrum?
Columbian Gold crossed with Federation Seeds Romulan.
1972 Columbian Gold.
Big Sur Holy Weed history.
I know there's a lot of stories behind that.
Are you familiar with it?
Not.
I mean, I don't have any firsthand experience.
I really only talk on the stuff that I was actually there for or have firsthand experience.
If it's so-and-so said so-and-so, all I can do is tell you what the story was.
Like, the monk named Paul story.
The same one everybody else knows.
Yeah, exactly.
PH Seeds did not make Shrum.
Oh, fucking done made Shrum.
Are you going to cross run that?
For sure.
Favorite OG Kush cut other than Face Off?
Just the original cut.
People weren't feminizing shit back in the 90s, so they're not directly related.
So if you just take the oldest cut and feminize it, you're going to get every other clone.
Here's a good one.
What's the story with Skull?
Skull is a good one.
Here's a good one.
What's the story with Scott's OG?
I gave him a bunch of clones, and that's what he made with it.
There you go.
Are you thinking about collaborating with Ethos anytime soon?
I don't even barely know him.
No matter what, twice.
Some of these questions kill me.
What is train wreck read in a cardboard box to get those cardboard chirps?
If you think train wreck smells like cardboard, then you should just stop growing right now.
If you grew train wreck and it smelled like cardboard, you suck at drawing, period.
Your cure game is fucked.
Because train wreck reeks.
Train wreck reeks.
Train wreck's a beautiful fucking strain, man.
Train wreck's a great strain.
One of my favorites.
History of Banana OG, that's easy enough to look up.
Rob Carney for Puck.
If you want to look it up, he's on Facebook.
Hit him up, ask him about Puck.
He'll talk to you.
Do you like GMO chirps?
I mean, it just reminds me of old hash plant.
It's not anything new.
There you go.
Do you ever breed some stuff for yourself that you don't release?
Haystuff, old lines, etc.?
Tons of it.
Tons of it.
Tell us about one of them.
I've been doing a lot of homebrewing.
I've been doing a lot of Hawaiian stuff lately.
So I have my buddy from Hana that gave me seeds.
He had a lemon strain.
I grew that out, picked one.
That one, what he used to call the Maui rain smell.
It's like a really hazy, like real tropical, really cool smell.
Just unique.
That, my buddy's Hawaii web dendica, Molokai frost cross that I made.
Selected a pheno of.
That's in a new strain that I'm making too.
And what else did we pollinate recently?
Still trying to work the walker into something better than it, but it's hard.
That would be hard.
Yeah.
Yeah, the old purple indica, same deal.
You have to hunt through a lot of them to find improvements, really.
Favorite cut you have right now?
I don't know if that'd be easy to answer.
I mean, that's why I have so many cuts is because I don't have a favorite.
But I got to admit the Skittles, the way that thing fucking smells.
I mean, the first time I saw that, you know, I thought the smell was fake.
You know, I remember I went to the first time I smelled it was at Sebastian's place in Oregon.
And he pulled some out of the freezer, some fresh frozen and opened it up.
And I was like, what the fuck did you get?
Because it did smell.
Right.
Yeah, it's special.
Yeah, the only other thing I smelled that was that fake was some herb we bought from my buddy's dad when we were in high school.
And it smelled like dryer sheets, but it was like it wasn't didn't have dryer sheets.
It wasn't actual dryer sheet weed, which was common back then.
So, but it was like some locally grown stuff.
It was really like real like perfumey smelling.
Let's see.
Here's one.
What do you think Skittles is just by looking at it?
I have no idea.
I mean, it's probably got some kind of has like a cherry pie look to it a little bit.
Yeah.
Does Fletch have any old Landrace heirloom beans?
If so, what did you have a favorite old heirloom line that you that you have?
All that Hawaiian shit's pretty, pretty special.
The Malawi Gold that I don't have anymore, but the Malawi Alhaze cross.
Yeah.
What else do I have?
The Purple Indica is pretty old school.
I mean, a lot of that stuff is the Millie is either Landrace or Landrace hybrids.
They're not very well developed varieties.
It's put that way.
History on a brain.
I know that there's been a few histories going around you.
What's your recollection of the actual history?
I just know it came from Grohart Rueboy.
Right.
That's it.
I mean, that's I don't really ever have anything of it beyond that.
Yeah.
I think he's back out to which is cool.
Yeah.
Come on.
Get some good questions.
Any Highland tie available?
Do you work with Highland tie?
No, I had a tie that Chris gave me.
I think we talked about it.
Yeah.
That's that was the only real tie.
I had.
I mean, I grew a bunch of tie crosses the German tie high flyer.
What other tie stuff that I try?
I tried a bunch of Cambodian stuff from Canada at one point.
I can't remember any other tie stuff.
The tie stuff.
I remember growing it and it was just so.
So, swag most of the time, you know, it was just.
It was just so.
It was just so.
It was just so.
It was just so.
It was just so.
It was swag most of the time, you know, it was just.
It was swag most of the time, you know, it was just.
Yeah, I get.
Yeah, I get.
Yeah, I get.
Just like nose, not much smell really airy, not much resin
and Hermes.
So, it was like it's hard to find a good fucking Thailand.
I've had people send back bunches and bunches and bunches and
spent a lot of time on a lot of bad time on shitty tie.
spent a lot of time on a lot of bad time on shitty tie.
It's it's it.
Yeah.
It is hard to come across a good tie.
Yeah, but I'm not saying that that's just the everything that I ran.
mind with every variety too is like you tried one version from one person that who knows
how reputable so it's like sometimes you got to go through a bunch of shit to find what
you're looking for.
This should be a I still don't think that's out there I still think it's the the push
kush that's going around and I even found old post from you remember El Gato.
Yeah yeah.
Even made a post where he's like this pure kush that's going around it's not the LA pure
which is the OG type right it's but and he's like it's not the same as a show's cut and
he was one of the main purveyors of passing out that cut 10 years ago.
Yeah you know and that that post was like from like 2010 or 2012 or something.
Crazy.
How'd you get the name the doctor who chose it.
When I skate were when I was a kid I would get bloody all the time I didn't ever break
bones so I'd bring around gauze and and shit like that.
That's pretty rad.
Pretty rad I didn't know that.
Yeah I just end up I never broke bones all my buddies have broke bone break bones we
have to go to the hospital and I just end up you know bleeding everywhere.
So I just got the got the right shit for it and clean yourself up.
Let's see ever heard of the PKG cut of OG.
No no anything I like that I like the I like the ghost one pure kush recently though that's
a good one.
Fucking a clone that the guy that it's named after never had.
Yeah that's it's got to be legit.
Yeah.
It's got to be legit.
You know how many people fucking tell me I'm wrong about that too.
It's mind blowing.
It's it's it's painful nowadays to even try to correct people or correct even just misinformation
and I'm trying to correct them.
Yeah it's trying to correct misinformation from being being spread it's like you would
think that the misinformation 20 years ago would have been worse because there was the
exchange of information was really poor right.
Yeah.
Now it's people are overflow with so much information that it's too hard.
It's like finding a needle in a haystack finding the real information.
Yeah.
It's a pain in the fucking.
Oh that that's what PKG means that sort of pure kush goes.
Yeah that's what that's what I thought.
That's why I'm together.
I thought I thought someone had remembered seeing someone try to call it that and I was
like yeah that's just that's even dumber than calling it goes to one pure kush.
You can bring out any more bazooka Joe.
Um.
Probably maybe maybe that was a hit.
That was a hit.
It was good for out really good for outdoor.
Our thing greenhouse our trinity and humble snow related you know any.
They didn't they don't smell related to me.
Yeah.
I mean snow is like that incense he kind of smell and Trinity was that burnt rubber.
How about sage have you ever found a good sage.
I've never found a sage that's as good as the big sir holy weed cut.
Yeah I would agree with that.
I believe Adam said he did say that big sir holy weed wasn't sage right.
That's what it's supposed to be.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It smells like it.
Yeah.
I mean whether or not it's the same cut or whatever who knows but it's it definitely
smells very similar.
What are you smoking on right now.
Dosey doe 18 fresh frozen rosin.
Mm.
Sounds delicious.
Yeah.
Do you ever plan land races land races.
I have all the time.
Yeah.
I mean it's as close as we can really get to it nowadays.
You know.
Yeah.
I mean the D the dog shit is pretty close to land race is not pure but like when I have
worked and grown pure land races like we're talking about with the like the ties they're
so bad it's like it's it's too hard to work with and even the purple indica is the same
thing is the same issue right.
It's so unhybridized.
Yeah.
Anytime you cross something into it you got to like search through a few hundred of them
to find an improvement because it's it likes to those genes like to dominate the hybrids.
Yeah.
Yeah.
People don't understand what they're getting into when they want like newer growers want
to run land like real land races legit land races you're going to get a lot of firms you're
going to get a lot of fucking resinless shit you know you've got to comb through it all
you have to hybridize it you have to work it for the most part.
Yeah.
You know what everybody expects that like just because it's a land race it's going to
be more stable or something and I've had the exact opposite experience growing.
Yeah.
Especially if you're growing land races indoor and that's another thing people have to keep
in mind is like when people make selections outdoor or in different environments.
So if if you make your selections outdoor in a greenhouse right.
If that plant does not hermaphrodite at all in those conditions right.
Is that a true female or is that a hermaphrodite if it hermes when you take it inside.
Is that a true female or is it a hermy.
Right.
Yeah.
Because once you change the environment change the wavelength of the of the light source
and everything else if you may be inducing the hermaphroditic tendencies but in its natural
environment which is outside under the sun it's a clean female.
So so what is the sex of that individual is it is it actually female or is it a hermaphrodite
because it hermes indoors but not outdoors.
I would think you'd have to apply it to outdoor status you know what I mean like because that's
its natural environment.
Everything needs to acclimate to some degree but yeah that's it.
That's a big difference trying to bring something indoor to outdoor or outdoor to indoor.
Well every cannabis plant is outdoor to indoor right.
Even if it's been hybridized indoor it still carries the same genes of every other plant
that grows outside.
Yeah.
I mean another thing people have to keep in mind like a thousand watt HPS at least historically
I don't I don't know about the DEs but I know it's not that it's probably not that considerably
different.
The thousand watt HPS bulb six inches from the bulb is one tenth of the strength of the
sun in like the middle of summer.
Right.
So when you are selecting for a plant that performs well indoors essentially the first
criteria that you're unknowingly selecting for is the plant's ability to turn light into
energy right through photosynthesis right.
Well there's a if if a plant does not convert that super efficiently it won't grow well
indoors period because it needs the intensity of the sun to process the light right.
Yeah.
And if as soon as you go indoor with it you're already selecting away 90 percent of the plants
that don't perform well without a full light source.
Right.
And that's why you have lots of varieties that when you take them outside they actually
perform way better again.
Yeah.
Right.
So if you have some poor growers are kind of weak stemmed or some you know mediocre
growth pattern indoors same plant outsides a beast.
Right.
And that has nothing to do with like quality genetics or anything other than the plant's
ability to process light and how effective how efficiently you can do that and whether
or not it could even do it with a fraction of the light available in its natural and
evolved environment.
Yeah absolutely.
Acclimation is so fucking important.
So important.
Right.
So it's just it's just about whether or not I can and they can convert that light energy.
Yeah I don't I don't do any breeding for outdoors like I don't I don't take my plants out acclimate
them outdoors see how they perform outdoors because I just don't have outdoor space.
But I think that's ideal especially because a lot of people during certain seasons are
only buying for outdoor.
Right.
Yeah.
Oh what is the true OG Kush turf profile.
How would you best describe it.
I always thought it kind of smelled tasted like chlorine.
Yeah I get I get like soapy cleaner.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It almost smells like a pool and like salt water and real like skunky type of smell.
Exactly that like the whole lemon pine thing.
I didn't really ever get that out of it.
I don't pick up.
I mean it's like kind of like that but only because like lemon and pine are also cleaner
type smells as well.
Right.
Yeah.
I tend to think that a lot of people pick up more lemon from OG because they associate
that with cleaner like lemon pine salt and stuff like that.
Right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Exactly.
Can you talk about cleaning clones with ionized water.
I don't know.
I think I mean I don't ionize water.
Isn't anything special.
Yeah.
I don't know anything about that.
Is there any real milk chocolate tasting weed.
Some old Bubba old old Bubba.
Yeah.
Or old purple indica oxidized weed taste chocolate in general.
Why do you think it was chocolate tie.
Yeah exactly.
It wasn't because it was fresh.
What else Casper OG talk.
It's just Ken's OG that came from from Josh.
There you go.
I mean that that crossed the face off line.
Yeah I want to extract without ionized water.
I know blonde had a good question here somewhere.
Blonde hit it.
Any opinions on med user woodhorse heroin.
Do you have any interactions with Chris.
No.
Yeah I don't.
I personally get all my interactions with him.
He's been a dick but I think he just he openly says he doesn't really like Americans so that
that's my only interaction.
I wouldn't be chasing down heroin personally.
Because I mean I saw the best the best heroin I ever saw was from the heroin OG that used
to go around L.A. right.
And I don't know if he's claiming that he bred heroin but heroin is a Steve Tuck thing.
Yeah you know.
So yeah which most people forget about that guy even though he had a big impact on a lot
of people forget where all the shit came from and there wasn't that many people.
Yeah I'm surprised when people when people talk about heroin you never hear Tuck's name
brought up.
But no even though he's super fucking known for it and 15 years ago he was like the only
source for it.
Yeah I think he made it.
I think they made it and called it that.
Yeah that's that's that's the that's what he says.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like I don't remember ever hearing it other than with his name attached to it.
Is he still around.
Yeah he does videos if you go on YouTube he does strain history videos that are probably
some of the most grown grown worthy fucking strain history videos I've ever seen.
He took credit for OG Kush.
I did see that.
Yeah him and 14 other people.
Yeah.
Right.
Best cross with Moonbo from the newest drop in your opinion.
What do you like.
I've been liking the Moonbo 75 Femmes.
So that's.
I'm stoked to see you putting out Femmes dude that's awesome.
Well it's a little easier to select your pollen donor when you can actually smoke it.
Yeah right.
Yeah.
I mean that's the hardest part about picking a male is like you know if I'm picking one
out of 300 females is the one that I want to keep picking one out of 300 males and
figuring that out with just reversing it and picking for structure.
Yeah.
You know you still are.
Your odds are significantly decreased.
Absolutely.
By 99 percent.
How many dosey F1 packs were released.
Less than 20.
Less than 20 packs.
There you go.
Frank Gygax story you can find that elsewhere.
Yeah.
I was the one that debunked that whole thing being related to anything.
Yeah.
Because I found I was the one that found all his fucking old the where he got it.
They ended up having him on that show and they didn't ask him the one question that
was most important of everything right.
Which was when they busted Frank right.
They busted Frank like his brother is a brother and some other people.
Yeah.
And there was three brothers.
And if you read the news articles there was three brothers that were younger right between
like 24 and 26 and those kids were supposedly brought in because they knew how to grow.
Yeah.
Right.
That they had experience growing.
No one ever asked anything about those three kids and they were from Lake Tahoe or somewhere
around there.
This was in the news articles.
That's what they were describing.
So where are those three dudes.
You know if you really wanted to know it sound like they were the ones growing the shit.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I went to dinner with Christie right before that and talked to Frank on the phone and
he laughed.
He laughed at the OG Kush story.
He's like dude we were growing like I got what it was like Big Bud and L4 and something
else.
I'm stupid.
I'm like yeah.
Not possible.
But he didn't he didn't really sound that much into growing.
He was more interested in telling his bunker stories but not about the growing aspect.
Right.
Totally.
Yeah.
Yeah.
They were more interested in selling the book too.
Right.
Exactly.
All right.
We did a full fucking hour dude.
I appreciate it.
Yeah.
I did.
Fucking it.
Part two.
Coop later.
All right.
Thanks for it.
Thanks for coming on dude.
Always a pleasure.
And he's gone just like that.
Just like that.
Thank you everyone for coming in.
Sorry if I didn't get your questions in.
I was trying trying to keep the best questions coming flowing as best I could.
Stuff I knew that he wanted to answer and stuff I knew he had info about.
You know.
So I appreciate all of you.
Thanks for coming on.
Check you guys later.
