Welcome to Breeder's Syndicate, where we explore the history of a clandestine scene
through the eyes of the folks who lived it.
I'm Matthew, owner of Riot Seeds.
I'll occasionally be joined by my co-host NotSoDawg, breeder and grower from Mendocino.
Welcome to the underground.
So and then yeah, I tried to join the live but I think Matt wanted to get his bejazzling
talk out of the way.
I did, I did.
I wanted to let them know about your hot new hobby.
Without, he wanted that as a monologue where I didn't have any chance to object or change
the subject.
So that was all, that was all, it was either technical difficulties or intentional on Matt's
part.
Yeah, I don't know what it was.
But yeah, no, I mean, I was just telling about your new hobby, that where you put your gems
and you just get nice adhesive and stick it real hard and take pictures.
It was fucking, it's pretty cool.
I mean, the people that can make a living doing that, you know, I mean, I got to make
a living somehow.
You know, I would, you know, I mean, they probably paid, they probably paid Marky Mark
a lot to pose on those Calvin Kleins, right?
Yeah, I would think so.
You know, you would imagine so.
Yeah, he's not packing heat like I am, though.
That's for sure.
No, I mean, I think there was an unripe avocado involved or something like that.
So it's all that's for artistic impression.
That's for artistic impressions.
All right.
So what do we want to cover today?
Where do you want to start?
Well, we thought about putting out like a few different things.
People were requesting certain stuff.
So we'll pay attention to comments if we can, and we'll take questions.
And then people were asking about like, because it's like a big name, like what some of the
super dog, which is I'm kind of tied into story is about, and then what some of the
Kush story is about.
It's like not to be we probably won't get like massively in depth and some kind of step
by step because there's a lot of I don't know, what would you call it?
A lot of toes to step on and a lot of people with money tied to their story about Ojii
Kousou.
Yeah, but so there's some legends and there's competing tales and their stories that you
kind of have to choose who to believe again.
It's one of the more complicated ones.
But we can talk about like how it impacted California, which is kind of really where
it got famous.
Yeah, you know, and, you know, Kush.
Wow, that's an interesting one.
I did know Kush.
He has been missing for a super long time.
And his family still pays like there's like hundreds of thousands of dollars.
Yeah, I mean, it's one of those things that someone asked weeks ago to do some missing
person stories or whatever.
And it's like, yeah, there's people have families and friends and loved ones and stuff and all
that.
So yeah, it's probably not the most like, the coolest thing to chat about.
Yeah, the sensitive nature of that.
I'm sure you have kids and stuff left behind.
Oh, no, I mean, it's just more like, you know, people, you know, it's like someone goes missing,
you got friends and family that love you.
Yeah, for sure.
And they don't have any and the reason why there's a huge reward is they don't have closure.
Yeah, yeah, it's pretty horrible.
You know, and so that kind of stuff, that kind of stuff happens up here.
Yeah, you know, it's isolated.
And so yeah, I don't know.
But did you catch the obsolete posting pictures of HLV infected seeds?
You know, I didn't.
But you know, I was actually strangely enough, we could talk about that for a second, because
I was probably two nights ago or something.
I had a pretty long chat with CSI.
Yeah.
And we were talking about a bunch of different things.
And one of the things that it's interesting is, you know, as you know, he's got a couple
of plants that have duty.
Yeah.
Right.
That are just really old and irreplaceable.
Yeah.
And so he keeps them, but he keeps them in a totally separate spot and all that.
Yeah.
Right.
Well, anyway, one of them is one of them is Kaleo.
Yeah.
Right.
And so there's this rumor, you know, I don't know if it's a rumor, but there's a there's
a tales going around that the viroid, dutting viroid, HLV, whatever the fuck you call it,
HPLV or whatever.
Yeah.
Not only does it stay alive in plants, but it passes on to a certain percentage of seed.
Yeah.
It's I think the number is from the hops people is eight percent of seeds that can be passed
to.
But that doesn't necessarily what people don't understand is that doesn't necessarily mean
that eight percent of your seeds that you pop are going to absolutely show it.
I mean, that it gives it eight percent chance and it could be eight percent of the seeds
you didn't pop that you had.
You know?
Yeah.
I mean, chances is like so over a huge number of seeds, you're you know, all things being
equal, your seeds somewhere between like 50 50 male, female or 60 40.
Yeah.
Right.
Over over like a large lot, like on a big average.
But I mean, I popped like twenty six seeds, two packs of like mangoes, haze and got three
girls.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I don't think the same stuff where you get like zero females, all males.
Yeah.
Or vice versa.
You know, the law of averages on like a very small amount is not that great.
But I will say the point before I get too distracted is he grew out some of those hybrids.
Yeah.
And he didn't see any.
He didn't he didn't find any evidence of it yet.
Yes, that's correct.
So I don't know.
I don't know that.
That's I don't want to say true, but I don't know how proven that is.
Yeah.
I don't know how proven that that 8 percent is.
And is that just hops?
Is it not necessarily cannabis, which is a hops relation?
There's not enough science on it yet as it relates to just cannabis.
No one no one looks cool smoking their vape.
So I try to hide it sometimes.
Sorry, guys.
Yeah.
No, no.
I mean, it is it is interesting because, you know, there's an aspect.
And we him and I were also chatting about, which is like there was an era where you didn't
really worry about disease or bugs too much.
Right.
Powdery mildew was unheard of.
There was no dutting.
There wasn't anything like that.
And there was this thing where most people either did their own clones.
Yeah.
Or only supplied their small little tiny group of friends.
Yeah.
Right.
And so a lot of times diseases or issues or something like that were fairly localized
and didn't really you never really heard about to be honest.
And then in like the 215 era, when people when lots of clubs started selling racks of
cuttings for like for profit.
Yeah.
A lot of people stopped running their own veggies, stopped the cake, taking care of
their own mother stock and their own clones and everything like that.
Yeah.
And just decided, fuck that power and space.
I'm just going to buy clones.
Yeah.
I'm going to look for my next rip from, you know, my friend at the shop.
Yeah.
And I smart cart.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And, you know, and certain companies, you know, and so that so in a way it's like those
diseases made their way to like certain like nurseries and clearing houses that were supplying
a lot of clubs.
Yeah.
And they spread it all over and they spread it to thousands of different gardens.
Yeah.
And so then it kind of became this thing where now you see it on IG and all this there's
advertisements for viroid tests like crazy.
Yeah.
People are taking all kinds of precautions.
We've had buddies that it came in and ripped through their rooms.
There seems to be different, different strengths and different ones.
Most people don't understand what a viroid even is.
I think we've all everyone in our crew has at least seen one dud over time to be able
to experience what that was.
And now we all kind of fucking know it sucks.
Yeah.
But I mean, there was even a thing where I was listening to a different, an excerpt from
a different podcast and they were interviewing someone who scientifically studied it, right?
And they were talking about the different methods because it's a not even a virus.
It's a viroid.
It's like little bits of RNA or whatever.
And it's like, for the most part, it's like it's totally fine and 99% isopropyl.
Yeah.
It's it doesn't kill it.
Yeah.
You know, we've been some a couple of good friends of ours.
They had some tech at their nurseries where they had like the the propane canister and
the torch that attaches to it.
Yeah.
And they would torch their their, you know, their equipment plant to plant.
Yep.
That doesn't kill it.
No.
It's a sneaky fuck.
I mean, root to like, like what I saw was root.
Like if you have a tray of clones and you've taken all these different strains, some are
more susceptible to catching it by the roots and the water or it's the fucking razor blade
or whatever you're doing, it's it spreads pretty fucking bad.
And so and so then there's an aspect where it's like basically what they found is that
like, you know, 10 or 15% bleach for 10 minutes does kill it.
Really?
Yeah.
But like H2O2, hydrogen peroxide, the strong shit.
Yeah.
That doesn't kill it.
That doesn't kill it.
Fire doesn't kill it.
There's something about the chemical composition of of bleach.
I wonder if the vinoxide works.
There's this other stuff.
Yeah, there's a few other things that that cause that kill it.
But some of those things are like really harsh on tools.
Yeah.
Or you, you know, so.
But then the interesting thing about bleach is if you buy like store bleach.
Yeah.
Our buddy Skunk just said Vikron's.
If you buy if you buy like clothing bleach, like sodium hypochlorite, that stuff only
stays good once you mix it for like, I don't know, five to eight hours.
Yeah.
And then if it gets too dirty, it goes inert.
Yeah.
I remember Jungle Boys, Jungle Boys was saying they were using I don't want to get it wrong.
But it was something like Sanidate or Oxidate.
Yeah, it was like one from that company Zeratol or.
I remember, yeah, Zeratol.
I remember I spilled that shit pure on my fucking leg once.
Oh, yeah.
I mean, it's their own.
Sterilizers are tough.
Yeah.
But, you know, for people now that we've gone this far into it or whatever.
But if you want to use a bleach solution that stays a lot more lasting and doesn't get fucked
up super fast, like your laundry bleach.
Yeah.
Get bleach for pools.
Oh, because.
Yeah, because that's calcium hypochlorite.
Right.
Yeah.
Calcium hypochlorite is, you know, pools are dirty, you know, they get shit in them and
stuff like that, like as far as, you know, dirt and leaves and whatnot.
So it doesn't go inert the same way sodium hypochlorite does.
Yeah.
But now people I mean, I go I go to the store and I buy, you know, like a hundred pack of
blades.
Yeah.
And I just I just add to, you know.
Yeah.
Every plant gets a new blade.
Yeah.
It's a good habit to make.
And you know, you yeah.
And so there's an aspect to it where it's like, so what sucks is that, you know, you
go somewhere and you see some really cool tech that somebody is doing and you're like,
oh, I'm going to incorporate that into my own thing.
And then you find out that it actually doesn't work.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I tried with I tried with the Sanidate and Oxidate on the 4-Way and Trinity cut because
both of those have the HLV and no dice.
Hey, Nato.
Yes.
I just wanted to wish you a happy pride.
Indeed.
Happy pride to all my friends.
That right there, before I lose it, because it'll go off my screen.
Every plant gets its own rooting hormone.
Yeah.
And so taking all the precautions to actually like separate and not cross contaminate.
It's a pain in the ass.
Yeah, it is.
And it's basically like dipping in having a separate like thing a clone X for every
fucking thing or whatever.
Yeah.
And then on top of that, then you're then you got to use Rockwool or you got to use
the earth plugs or something like an EZ Cloner.
Yeah.
It's like that's everywhere.
Yeah, that's it.
You're done at that.
Yeah.
That's like making out with people with the flu.
Yeah.
You know, and you know, and so it's hard.
Because there's like real science and bro science.
Yes.
And for a long time, we only had bro science because real science couldn't touch weed.
I can't tell you how long I have heard that powdery mildew classes passes to seedlings.
Like that's bro science.
It's been bro science for a long time.
So when I first heard about the HLV thing, I was very skeptical, you know, because I'd
seen a lot of people breathe with duds over the years and never seen that does pop up
in seed form.
But apparently the hops people do say it happens.
So yeah.
And I mean, that obviously still has to be checked and proven over time.
And that's how science is, right?
Is it like, it's the best information you have.
And you know, we'll see.
I don't know where that originates from.
Yeah, I know.
Stupidity, I think.
You know, and well, you know, people have to understand the life cycle of things.
And like, a viroid isn't even a virus.
It's like little bits of RNA.
Yeah.
And so to have something so small like that, be able to just fuck us up so hard.
See, Skunk BA knows, I don't even know what translaminar means and I probably should,
but I think that sounds correct.
So translaminar, there's two things, right?
There's vascular, where it's moving through your vascular system.
And then there's translaminar, which is essentially like the leaf surface.
Okay.
Yeah, that makes sense.
Right?
So for instance, like to give you an example, if you could use a certain kind of poison.
And it would be a contact killer, or maybe it would form a relationship and be translaminar
and go on the leaf.
Okay.
And not systemic.
That could be systemic though.
It could.
They can have systemic translaminar?
And you can have systemic vascular.
I know systemic vascular, but I never heard.
I wouldn't think systemic would be just leaf touching, but I guess that makes sense.
Yeah.
You know, well, I mean, it just depends.
Humans have figured out all kinds of different shit.
Yeah.
You know, but he's right in the sense that PM is, you know, it's like PM the heart.
The hardest thing is to break its life cycle.
Yeah.
You know, and that's what people don't do.
Yeah.
You know, they mostly break its life cycle, but then it like, you know, I don't know.
I mean, when you live in Mendo and you're surrounded by vineyards and everything else
and everybody grows, you know, we got a crash course 20 years ago in PM.
Yeah.
You know, I wanted to make some Eagle 20 jokes, but it's bad.
You can't even joke about that shit anymore because people take that shit seriously.
It's an avid, we used to call avid the death.
Avid is a translaminar systemic or whatever.
And you know, 20-25 years ago, some of that stuff.
Is it systemic?
Because I do remember that spider mites are not susceptible to things that are systemic
because of how deep they go into the leaf.
No, they're susceptible.
I mean, the issue becomes really with spider mites specifically, is that 20-25-30 years
ago, there was there's a bunch of poisons for spider mites that are, you know, all from
pretty natural to pretty toxic that worked really well.
And you know, people overuse these toxins over and over and over again, and would dip
their clones in it every time and would just, yeah, they were trying to take precautions.
But what they bred was super mites.
Yeah, I was pretty sure avid wasn't systemic.
Yeah, it's one of the ones that's not.
Just because it's not systemic doesn't work necessarily with spider mites.
You don't need systemic.
So they don't go that far.
So maybe people aren't, there's vascular systemic and there's translaminar.
And so like when you think about it, like if something's a contact killer, it means
that the bug has to come into contact to kill it.
If there's something that's translaminar and like, and persists within the leaf for a period
of time, it'll kill the bug for that length of time that it persists.
But that's not necessarily systemic.
If it stays in the plant, that's not a definition of systemic.
Well, I mean, it's also one of those things, though, that it's systemic in the sense that
your plant will test positive for it for a long time.
Yeah, yeah.
But I think there's something specific about it not being systemic, like what it actually
is avid.
Yeah, I mean, someone, amiclorapid, which is the people use for root aphids or whatever,
that stuff, you can test like that stuff will test dirty one to two years later.
That's crazy shit.
So that's kind of maybe I mean, maybe I'm getting it wrong.
What I consider to be systemic is that if you apply it, and then weeks or months later,
you can still test for it.
Yeah, it's around.
It's in the plant system somehow, whether that's the leaf system or the, you know, and
maybe we can look it up and maybe I'm totally fucked.
Yeah, I don't know.
It's always possible.
But that's kind of how I that's kind of how I view things is like things that persist.
Yeah, I don't I have no clue.
To be honest with you.
I just remember that the old saying that systemic stuff doesn't work on mites because they don't
go deep enough into the leaf.
Yeah, someone just asked if you spray avid and veg, it will absolutely it will absolutely
persist for some time.
Yeah.
And there used to be 90 days is right.
I should say I should say this thing.
There used to be this thing where not to call anybody out or anything like that.
But there was a lot of people that supplied clubs that knew exactly how many weeks you
had to go not spraying it to test totally clean at the club.
Oh, yeah.
And so they would do this thing where like this gentleman just just asked, can you spray
it and veg they would spray the shit and veg.
Yeah.
And veg for X amount of weeks and then bloom for X amount of weeks and then know that it
would be clean.
And then in order to in order to get around that, yeah, the legal testing, it went from
PPM to PPB.
Oh, yeah, that's right.
From parts per million to parts per billion.
And once it went to parts per billion, it fucked every all those people's math and all
the rates they were using it.
Everybody was hiding using it and getting away with it.
You know, and so now what's happened is, is that a lot of these mites have survived decades
of people spraying them with all kinds of funky shit.
Yeah, yeah.
And so there are a lot there are a lot stronger and there are a lot more resistant in California
than your average mite would be in the wild.
That shit in San Diego back in the day, they would drink out of it.
They'd take a shot and say, fuck you.
You know, like they were they're brutal.
Yeah.
I mean, there's there's it's it's not, you know, and then everything gets overused.
And just like anything else, if you don't actually eliminate the problem, if you just
knock the problem down to low levels and you keep doing that over and over and over again,
eventually the ones that survive are going to be better at resisting whatever you're
using.
Yeah.
And it could be totally organic.
It could be evil, like Avid or Forbid or Contos or, you know, there's a bunch of...
Those aren't evil.
I don't like being sued.
They're not hypothetically evil.
No, I mean, you know, they, they just in the sense of, you know, I mean, everything has
its place, I suppose.
But yeah.
And I don't want to be sued.
I don't know about that.
But well, you know, I mean, all that stuff comes from the only reason why that shit exists
is because it's all over your fucking food.
Yeah.
Yep.
You know, it doesn't exist for weed people.
All those all those crazy chemicals and stuff, Eagle 20 and all that stuff, it all exists
because it gets used all the time in commercial food production.
Yeah.
That's why you could even buy it.
I remember back in the day, the big mix in Amarillo of Druids.
I shouldn't even admit this, but it was a long time ago before, before, you know, a
lot of the information was available, even though you could smell it, you could smell
the toxicity.
But it was a Phyton 27 and Spectracide Immunox mixed for some reason seemed to just knock
the M out.
But it would also murder your fucking plants, you know?
Yeah.
Immunox is kind of like a derivative.
It's like another brand name for Eagle 20.
Yeah.
You know, and yeah, Eagle 20 gets sprayed for grapes, Abbott.
A lot of these things are designed for ornamentals, too.
Yeah.
Yep.
You know, you know, points that like the like the fucking PGR bullshit.
Yeah.
Right.
Where everybody, you know, for a while where if you were super unethical and you wanted
to get two or three pounds of light and you didn't care about quality, you would PGR your
weed.
And it was it had it had a bunch of names, right?
Phospholode or, you know, there was there was a number of companies that would all hide
what it actually was.
And it's the same shit that makes like when you walk into a grocery store around Christmas
and all the poinsettias are the same fucking height to the inch.
Yeah.
That's because they got treated with a PGR.
Yeah.
I mean, I think I think the term PGR has been demonized just like GMO or anything like that,
where they're.
Sure.
Yeah.
I mean, there are great PGRs.
And I see people saying, fuck PGRs.
You don't even know what you're talking about because there are actually PGRs that we all
use that are decent.
I will say that a lot of the companies would hide the the fucking what was on the label.
Oh, for sure.
Right.
And then eventually they got caught on to and they all got pulled off the shelf or whatever.
And Sunlight Supply came out with one that they called Dr. Nodes.
And it was fully vetted through all the all the various agencies.
Right.
Yeah.
So I my my buddy had a shop and they got all these samples.
And one of the samples was this bottle of Dr. Nodes.
Right.
And I'm looking at it and it was a bottle and it came in its own plastic sheath that
you kind of like almost like a medicine thing that you had to rip open and do that.
Right.
Yeah.
And one of its warnings was pregnant women should not touch the bottle.
Right.
That's safe.
That's pretty heavy.
But like on the same on the same tip, a natural PGR is kelp.
Yeah.
And if you apply too strong a kelp, you'll plan to do some weird shit.
So you're right in the sense that it's just a term that exists.
Yeah.
It's what most people are thinking of when they think of PGRs and weed is like.
Phospholode.
Exactly.
Phospholode.
And like the name is this long and it's methyl ethyl and it has a bunch of parentheses and
hyphen.
Butanil.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's it's it's all it's all kinds of bad shit.
Paclo.
You know, Paclo, Paclo, butanol.
Terrible.
Yeah.
And in addition to in addition to making your weed super dense, which is the crystal.
It fucked with your crystal content and made your weed be great.
Yeah, definitely.
And there's a lot of companies and this is even fucked up, even if you weren't evil and
use the shit.
Sorry if you used it.
And I just called you evil, but they didn't put it on the label on lots of things.
And then there's other companies that would put it into like blood blasters and things
like that.
And they would just put small amounts for that extra oomph.
Yep.
Yeah, it's all part of that fucking nutrient game, which I mean, after making the spray
and learning about different nutrients, how they're sold, how you get regulated, how you
get, you know, on relisted all that stuff.
It's just like to me, like it was like learning about the vitamin, like like what do they
call it?
Like muscle stores or whatever you can buy supplements, supplements.
It's like supplements.
I'm sorry.
I have to interject too.
Yeah.
You know, someone's a couple of people said gravity and shit like that, which is definitely
one of the things.
And then someone was like, yes, it's illegal to not have everything on the label.
Yes.
And you'll be shocked to know that people making products for cannabis people were willing
to do something illegal.
Yeah.
And that not all of them had the highest of ethical standards.
Yeah, but they got that purple max, though.
I mean, that gravity shit or whatever.
I had a friend who literally was like an early proponent of, you know, you'd probably call
it living soil today.
Yeah, it was super anal about inputs and all this different stuff.
And so he comes in and he buys some of that.
And all it says on the label is kelp.
Yeah.
But it had the full Paclo in it.
Oh, sure.
And he goes out there and he makes a whole resi and he waters all his beds.
And he'd had those beds for like five, six years and had been developing them every year.
And then he went and sprayed him with Paclo because it wasn't on the label.
He thought it was cool.
And nobody knew to tell him.
Yeah.
You know?
So yeah, some of that stuff was insidious.
They were trying to sell you a product that you'd buy again.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And it's just like, I look at it like drug dealers who press their pills and like, you
know, double the strength that there's Xanax.
Of course, people are going to go back to that fucking dude if they want to get all
super fucked up and die.
So I mean, there was even there's even pesticides that have gotten caught, right, that have
gotten pulled from the shelves in California because they listed, you know, clove oil and
this and that, whatever to kill bugs.
And then they test it and it's got abitin.
It's got abimactin in there.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's got it's got low amounts of something that really works.
You know, and then they just figure out, is someone actually going to analyze my secret
sauce?
Probably not.
Eventually people do.
You know, eventually people do.
I mean, there was a there's there's been times where like weights and measures has come into
grocery stores.
Yeah, I bet.
And by law, you know, if it says it's 40 ounces, it better be 40 ounces.
Yeah.
It says it's X amount of pounds.
It better be that.
Yeah.
And they'll pull all their shit off the shelves.
Oh, yeah.
Because it doesn't weigh right.
I think people are asking about power.
I know that's a ortho salicylic or monosalicylic acid.
It's it's it's it's it's basically what it is, is it's silica in a form that's a lot more
absorbable for the plant.
Yeah.
There's a lot of shit.
There's a lot of silica out there that is not that easily plant absorbable.
Yeah.
It's not available for cannabis unless you reuse your soil for you.
And so and so as a result, there's there's a number of cutting edge has one power.
See, is one.
There's a bunch of them that put it basically in a different in a different suspension.
Yeah.
Lack of a better way to put it.
That makes it that makes silica acid that makes it a little bit easier for the roots
and the plant to actually uptake.
Yeah, that's one of the few products like that that I really actually visually can see
change within 24 hours of using it.
I was a big fan of it.
It's expensive as fuck.
But yeah, people are talking about and there's enzyme products on the market right now to
enzyme enzyme products are I use them a bunch.
Actually, there's Newcomb and Dr. Zimes and all these and they're all basically this.
They're enzymes that fuck with the the eco skeleton of the of the bug and their citric
acid in there.
Yeah.
Right.
And they're a lot more natural and a lot of more organic and they test clean and they
absolutely annihilate powdery mildew.
And they do a pretty good job killing mites, too.
Yeah, I'm still I'm still a big proponent now because of you of the what's that shit
called the micro sulfur, micronized sulfur?
Micronized sulfur.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's a truth.
I mean, micronized sulfur.
If you don't use oils.
Yeah.
And you spray micronized sulfur.
I learned that part way.
You'll never you'll never have russet mites or PM in your veg ever.
Yeah, it's beautiful.
Except when I use them both together in the same bottle like a absolute fool and every
plant that I had.
And well, yeah, they'll burn hairs, though.
That's why I said in veg.
Yeah, yeah, sure.
You know, you'll definitely sulfur is a really distinctive aroma and you definitely don't
want to be using sulfur for any reason much past the first week of.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's you start saying to me it's not a good idea.
But in veg, when it's just all sticks and stems, you know, and leaves, it's organic.
It's safe.
It's you know, yeah, it it works really well.
I totally got away from oils simply because I like sulfur in the rotation as a safety
measure in the veg.
And plants tend to like it a lot.
And I don't so I don't use oils at all.
Yeah, because I got help you if you got russets or something like that.
You know, it'll it'll annihilate those.
Yeah, it's I think it's safe to use indoor, but I don't like put on masks when I spray
either.
So what the fuck do I know?
It is safe to use indoor.
But I put I would put on masks, you know, even if people put on there's a lot of stuff,
quote unquote, that's safe, that I might only put on like a, like a snowboarding shell
or something to spray.
But I have a full face mask with a visor and the whole bit, right?
Yeah, because it might be safe for your plants.
But that doesn't mean your lungs want it.
Yeah, no, I don't want to breathe in wettable.
So I don't want to breathe in anything.
Like on that level, you know, so I always wear a mask.
I don't want in my eyes either.
Yeah, it's probably not good.
It's probably why I'm fucking blind, to be honest with you.
Yeah, I mean, you know, it's it.
I just I you know, that I always do that.
No, as I got older.
Yes.
Well, yeah, I've gotten older.
I've tried to be more.
I have a real nice I don't know it's a two or $300 full face mask or whatnot.
And even for the most basic stuff, I put it on.
Someone said they started using sulfur because that guy who said sulfur is how to get our
gas.
I mean, it'll definitely make your weed smell and taste like a tire fire.
Yeah, I mean, if you use it wrong.
Yeah. If you feed it to the roots, it does increase terpenes, whatever it has.
It's not going to change.
Somebody said, yeah, Newcomb, Newcomb and sulfur or Newcomb and Dr.
Zimes and sulfur or whatever.
You can use them back to back.
There's not oil in there, so you could use it.
I've done it a bunch.
It's completely safe.
The only thing something happens when you combine oil and sulfur, it changes the pH
on the plant and it burns them to shit.
Yeah, it murders them.
I've so few sulfur is sulfur is very, very, very safe as long as you don't mix it with
oil. I never usually do lines of pure or wait, I should say if it's over 90 degrees,
sulfur can really hurt your plants.
Yeah, for sure.
So don't if you know, we meet me, our buddy and I, we one of the fires in 2019, I think
it was 2018, maybe we had sprayed sulfur the night before.
And then the next day, one of the biggest fires in California history started a couple
hills over from us.
And the first thing it did was burn out a bunch of power poles.
Right. So it was one hundred and eight degrees and the lighting went out.
But sort of the air conditioning and all the fans and everything we had because the
power poles bent and fell.
Yeah. And it got real hot and we lost a bunch of moms to sulfur.
Yeah. On the day before.
That's I mean, there was a lot of that sucked about that fire.
But yeah, I mean, we didn't have power at that spot for almost two weeks.
You know, and it was June and you have a death and I mean, there was problems, there was
issues, you know.
Yeah. So but yeah, I mean, people trying to read and talk or whatever.
I didn't even think we actually bullshitted for a totally different direction.
Yeah. Yeah.
Don't get don't get sulfur on your lights, you know.
But yeah, sulfur, sulfur works better than anything I've ever seen against russet mites.
Yeah. It absolutely annihilates them and it annihilates powdery mildew.
Yeah, I never had russet mites in my life, so I should knock on wood somewhere.
But powdery mildew, you know, it's even a problem in Bakersfield where it's super dry.
And I mean, do you know that do you know that they consider russet mites areoplankton?
No, that's weird.
You ever heard that word areoplankton?
No. So so obviously plankton in the ocean.
Yeah. They just get carried around by the currents.
Yeah. Right. Russets are so small.
They can get just carried by wind currents for long distances.
Yeah. That's why they call them areoplankton, because it's like living things
that are just getting carried along by current, in this case, wind current.
So you could have a neighbor a couple of hills over.
And the wind could be going the wrong way, and they could definitely start blowing off
their plants and right up the hill and right up into your ship.
Yeah. And that's how a lot of people got them in Mendo, actually, was they spread
neighbor to neighbor, farm to farm.
You'd be you'd be downwind from someone.
And about July, August, their garden would fuck you.
Yeah. And so you could take all the precautions in the world about quarantine
and bringing in clean stuff and not allowing pests in, you know.
And then they came in on the wind.
Ain't that a bitch.
So somebody just said Spinosad.
I'm sure there's there's I'm sure there is.
Spinosad is a cool story, actually.
I don't know if you've ever heard it.
But Spinosad is like a is basically a bug killing fungus.
Yeah. Right.
And they discovered it in the Caribbean.
Right. There was an old rum mill and they went into this big old factory, you know,
rum factory, and they noticed there was no bugs.
Yeah. All of there was like zero, no spiders, no bugs of any kind.
So they took soil samples and they found Spinosad A and D.
Yeah. And that's what that's what when you buy Spinosad, that's what that's what it comes from.
It comes from them discovering this thing.
Right. Yeah. But the reason why you shouldn't fucking use it is that it is really it is terrible for bees.
Yeah. It is one of the most toxic things for bees.
So it's safe for you and it's safe for people and animals and all that type of stuff.
But it'll take out a whole beehive.
That sucks.
So it's not it's not, you know, I mean, I guess if you were indoor.
You could safely use it on your plants.
Yeah. And you really wouldn't have too much risk or be or, you know, be an asshole about it.
But, yeah, if you're going to spray it on a bunch of your your depths or your outdoors or something like that, you might kill the natural bees all in your area.
It's bad enough.
Yeah. And they have their own.
They have they have enough struggles going on right now.
Bee populations with a lot of things that are fucking with them.
So, yeah, I would definitely I could never in in good conscience recommend somebody use it in their depth or their outside.
Yeah. You know, and it also.
I want to hear some shit on OG when we can get to that sucka.
We're there. I mean, I don't know.
We just we just took it and we just took it in that direction.
But, you know, there's a bunch of people listening.
So if if we talked about certain things and why not to use them, that's cool, too.
Yeah. And that's the reason when people say Oklahoma or California, there's testing for it.
It's not because it's harmful to humans.
It's because bees pollinate half of our food sources.
Yeah. And so we really, really don't want them to die.
Yeah. And they are dying at a rapid rate and they're dying at a rapid rate from a bunch of different issues and from a bunch of exposure to toxins and pesticides and herbicides and
other and other stresses or whatever.
And literally there's an immense amount of stuff that you eat that wouldn't get pollinated if it wasn't for bees.
Yeah. So spraying a shit ton of bee killer.
You know, yeah, it's a little rough.
So. All right, so we can we can talk we can talk about Kush.
Oh, this already just I just totally changed my mind and don't want to talk about it at all.
Oh, my God.
I'm just kidding.
Yeah, I know. But yeah.
But yeah, but I mean, it there could be there could be now that we've been chatting about it for a while.
Yeah. You know, not right now, but like our experiences in the future, people want to know about pesticide or or tech or how to beat certain things or what works or what doesn't.
Living up here, surrounded by growers, I mean, I've kind of seen about just about everything tried.
Yeah. And you start to poke around and what works and what doesn't.
What are the downsides to this thing?
Yeah, because most things have downsides, you know, so you got to pick which ones you're OK with.
Yeah. You know. Definitely.
But people want to hear about OG.
Yeah. Like a lot of things or like a lot of famous stories.
It's not mine or Matt's story.
No, I have nothing to do with OG.
By any means.
Wow. You know, but we you know what we thought, like so there's there's like the most mysterious part about it is the is the Florida history.
Right. It starts getting a little bit more definitive and understood once it got to California.
Yeah. Yeah. Right.
So what we thought is like, obviously, this is like I mean, there's been whole shows where people confidently talk about the origins of OG and this and that and everything else.
And there's a bunch of stories because it's so famous of various people trying to lay claim.
Yes. Right.
There's somebody in Hawaii who says his dad did it.
You know, that's my favorite.
There's no my favorite was was was the underground bunker.
Frank Gygax story that Frank Gygax said is not true.
That was my personal favorite.
So there's there's there's the like there's a story that it's Neville work that got sent to Hawaii and made his way to Florida from there.
Neville did have apparently many backups everywhere.
Yeah. We don't know about.
There's a you know, there's a story like you just said that, you know, Frank is a guy that had a bunch of basically undergrounds and warehouses and big grows in the southwest, you know, United States.
Arizona.
Arizona and New Mexico and all that.
And there's rumor that it came from there.
It certainly seems guaranteed to have come from Florida people coming out this way.
Me and Fadi did meet old Dave Richards.
He was there when when I met that guy and he was he had a circle around telling the tales of OG and how he fucking made it.
I mean, I've met I've met Dave Richards.
He's character. Did you meet him?
Yeah, I met him.
He's he smokes black and mild on one of those fucking things.
Yeah. Yeah. I liked him in person.
Like I'm not even going to lie.
Like he's a funny dude.
Like he's he's personable.
Yeah, he's personable.
It's hard not to like him.
But when I realized how much he was lying to me, I was like, OK, come on, dude.
Like it was so easy to snap.
He's personable. And so there's a there's an aspect where.
Oh, Mark's Castle. Yes, that's another claim.
That's right.
Anyway, there's basically what it boils down to is that Kush became
one of those things that ended up being so famous and made so many people money
that there's a lot of people invested in trying to be like,
you should give me rep because my crew or my family or my whatever,
my friends are the ones that brought this to the world.
Yes. And so people come out of the woodwork, you know, I mean,
and I'm not trying to call individuals out, but it's like
there's everything from those crazy stories we told you to the one that Matt
and I tend to believe, which there was like an accident in a closet
and it came out of some bag seed, you know, to
ever changing story from TK Origins
with different years and different plants and different certainties, you know.
And, you know, it's also possible, too, that like it's, you know, it's it went
it was it was strains by a different name.
And now we just know it is Kush. Yes.
You know, I mean, we you know, Neville told
Neville told Matt that he thought that most of the American Kush stuff
was based off his Kush for NL2.
Yes. Yeah. You know, and it was all just it was all just phenos of that.
He just thought it was NL2 expression out of that.
Yeah. He thought this is NL2. This is mine. Obvious.
Right. And so, you know, and then, you know, there's
so there's all these different things, but regardless of all that,
you know, yeah, someone, you know,
there's a there's a bunch of rumor. Yeah.
And since we don't know any of the parents.
Right. It allows basically anyone to step in and say,
fucking this is the story.
Well, I mean, I also think because the way O.J.
expresses being long and lanky with dense nugs.
So it looks like what we would consider traditionally as like a sativa
because it's so long and lanky, but then it has these dense
nugs and resin like an Afghani.
So it's really easy to just make up bullshit and be like,
oh, that's a fucking Nepalese and just some random sativa
and some random Afghani, you know?
So maybe we'll go way the fuck back for a second.
OK, right. Start start at the back.
We'll start at the very beginning.
OK, so the very beginning of Kush in America.
And we have no idea if this relates to the Kush that everyone is familiar with.
But people would bring back seed from the Hindu Kush Mountain region
of Afghanistan and Pakistan.
And those mountain valleys had the Kush.
Yes. Right. And that was the first term.
Sam Skunkman had a Hindu Kush.
That was the Hindu Kush Mountain region.
The Hindu Kush Mountain region.
The Indians supposedly gave Seattle Greg a Kush
that got put into NL to, you know, there's various ones. Right.
And so it used to be a generalized term for a region.
Yes. Right.
Where now, if you fast forward 40 years today,
it basically goes back to, you know,
the Kush that went to L.A., the TK.
That type of thing is like that's what everyone thinks of as Kush.
Yeah. So it went from like a region
and all these different Afghans within that region.
Yes. So like a very specific Fino expression and look.
Yes. Was Kush.
And so now if you talk about Kush today,
you're not talking about the region anymore with anyone.
Right now, you're specifically talking about
a specific phenotypic expression and a look.
And there's variance within that look, but it's got some key characteristics.
And one second, just for everyone that keeps mentioning the Paki lemon Thai,
I will tell the actual story behind how that how that came to be.
And you'll laugh your ass off. So let's continue.
So so anyway, so it started off as it started off as a region.
Right. And maybe we should talk about the region for just a second
because it might interest people. Right.
So I I have this theory and I've and I've seen it in some different places
and all that and like and we've bounced it around.
And I would so I wouldn't say it's like a theory that's like,
you know, you couldn't poke holes in, but I think it can hold generally true.
Where if you look at Afghanistan, there is parts of Afghanistan
that are anywhere from sea level all the way up to 10,000 feet.
Yeah. Right. There's a lot of different elevations.
So like Mazar, that region, that's maybe only 800 feet above sea level.
Yes. But there's areas on the Hindu Kush valleys that are five, six,
seven thousand feet where they grow vegetables and wheat.
Yeah. And so what tends to be is that when you get the low land Afghans
that are in the foothills or the plains or sea level in Pakistan or Afghanistan,
they tend to be these squat, bigger,
like fluffier plants with much wider leaves.
Right. They're not as dense.
They're growing in more human areas.
Right. A little bit.
And they're lower to the ground and they have these big, fat, wide leaves.
And then you get up into these high mountain regions.
OK, which also has Afghans and those Afghans kind of sound a lot
like what Matt described with the Kush that everyone's familiar with.
Yeah. Skinny leaves, but indica.
Right. Not not big, fat, wide leaves, but skinny leaves.
Golf ball type, much tighter type nugs. Right.
Yeah. And you think about the environment that they're in.
Very cold, colder, drier, a lot more UV.
Right. And so the leaves are smaller because catching all that UV is bad.
Yes. The intensity is more.
I think I think what I was talking about this is CSI, because I don't have a lot of
experience with outdoor other than a few, you know, like depth runs in San Diego.
But I noticed that even with the NL5s, they're expressing way more narrow outdoors.
And it's just a trait that outdoors, because of humidity and other other
things and transpiration, they're just naturally more narrow.
There's going to there's the plant's going to have a range of expressions based on all
kinds of factors. Yeah. And, you know, he only just said, you know, UV protection.
The higher up you go in elevation, the less atmosphere there is, the less UV
is filtered out. Yeah.
Right. And so obviously, even though the plant might come from Afghanistan, if it
developed in a valley that's six or seven thousand feet above sea level and it's a
mountain region, that kind of cold and day night temperatures and a lot of things,
it's going to have different breeding pressures and different plants that are
successful. Yeah.
Versus a low land plant from the plain that gets, you know, moisture off the ocean.
That's going to be a different kind of plant.
Yeah. And I think there's a lot of misconception where people think all thin leaf
is sativa and the broader and fatter it is, the more indica it is.
Yeah. You can have narrow leaf, pure indica.
Yeah. You know, it just happens to it's just usually highland weed.
Yeah. Not lowland weed.
You know, and I think that's a big misconception.
Yeah. For a lot of people.
Yeah, I think that's a major misconception.
Yeah. Is all indica and all Afghan, the broader the broader is, the more Afghan.
And the narrower is the more sativa.
Yeah. You know, and maybe if you crossed a broadleaf Afghan to a narrow leaf sativa,
that would be true in the children.
Yeah. You know, and so now so so anyway, so there's highland Afghan, there's a lot
of there's a lot of mountain valley.
Yeah. And there was a lot there was a bunch of weed coming over to America called Hindu
Kush, because that was the big mountain range and all the valleys that that it came
from. Yeah.
And dirty old Zog is saying there's hash plants because those were all hash plants.
All those Afghans were.
My Lebanese, my red lead that I had was also a narrow leaf, but it grew like a big
Afghan sideways.
It was real fucking weird.
Yeah. Yeah. And so there's just, you know, like a lot of times and it makes sense.
Like you read books and you see what you're familiar with in America.
Right. And there's certain assumptions that get made, but they're not always the true
ones. Yeah.
You know, and, you know, and and, you know, narrow and and what I mean by narrow leaf
is just like, obviously, there's a range.
Yeah. Bodhi has a lot of really good narrow leaf Afghanis and Pakis he's put out if
people are interested.
Yeah. So it's just and so a lot of times I I believe very strongly.
I can't say it's 100 percent fact, but I believe very strongly that almost all those
narrow leaf indica types developed in high altitude regions of those mountain ranges
where they didn't need as much leaf to capture light.
They needed less of it.
Yeah. Right. Because each leaf has a job, right?
Yeah. It's there to transpire water and it's there to catch sunlight.
That trees and water.
So, yeah, if it if it on my buddy, I was visiting my friend yesterday and he was
showing me an Afghan and it was thin leafed and fluffy as hell.
Yeah. So, you know, the leaf has a job.
And if it's way up there in the mountain valleys and it can do its job on a skinny
leaf, then it's not going to put a bunch of effort into growing a big, fat, thick leaf.
Yeah. Is there a narrow leaf indica type or hybrid?
Ercol expresses many different ways.
I've seen it be narrow and I've seen it be broad.
So one of those that it depends on the room, the environment, how narrow or broad it
is. So just as a general thing, a lot of times people, you know, people judge narrow
or wide based on and make guesses based on how sativa or how indica.
But that's not the whole story.
Yeah. And I honestly think Matt can tell the story about the paki and the tie.
Yeah. I honestly think some of the some of the the cush that we're familiar with, some
of its narrow leaf characteristics led people to believe there was sativa in it.
Yeah, I think I think the streakiness and all that shit and definitely it wasn't as
broad as a lot of Afghans, despite the density.
But the story originated from there were two brothers back in the day that went by
brothel brothers and one would call himself Kailua Kid and the other called himself
NYC Kid. Both, I think, are still around.
I know NYC Kid is still.
But back then, Kailua Kid also went later on to start Tricone Kings and a few other
things. And Paradise Seeds Mod was another name of his.
He made the claim that he bred OG and that it was Pakistani crossed a lemon tie.
Lemon tie was a Dutch flower string.
And I mean, there are ties that are lemony, but the one he was referring to is a Dutch
flower strain. And he's not fucking OG Kush.
Is this that's one of the oldest stories that's been shot down more than almost any OG
Kush origin story. But to this day, to this day, people still fucking repeat that shit
ad nauseum because they don't know that the guy was a major scammer that started the
story. He's fucked all of us, all of us back in the day.
But he made a lot of claims about Asian fantasy and all kinds of other stupid shit.
It was just what he did. I remember at one point he was selling seeds.
He called dog dog butt ass ones.
And then I kind of called him out on his like, well, I don't know, man.
I got him in a bag labeled dog, doggy, doggy, but we'd, you know, close enough.
So this is the guy that they're relying on for that story.
The second story that we were talking about, the Frank Gygax story, it was started by a
guy named Dave Richards.
And he told the story on Adam Dunn.
He came out and he actually, I believe, Adam Dunn at one of the Adam Dunn cups gave him
a lifetime achievement award for breeding and bringing O.G.
Kush to the masses.
Unfortunately, Dave Richards made a lot of mistakes.
One of the first ones was that it was a it was a hash plant tie Afghani, which he kept
referring to as HTAF.
Now, HTAF is an old term from DJ Short referring to Highland Tie Afghani.
So he was confabulating different stuff to make his story.
He also said that Frank Gygax left a book behind with the breeding tips on O.G.
Kush and everything about it.
When I spoke to Frank Gygax directly and his daughter, I went to lunch with his daughter
and breakfast. We went to a few different things.
But I talked to Frank Gygax over the phone and he said that he wrote that book as a grow
book for dummies in prison because he had nothing else to do.
So Dave's story and also Frank Gygax said they never bred there.
It was only commercial production.
And it was he gave a few different lines.
I want to say it was like NL for something weird that I don't think he probably had.
Big Bud, Skunk One and something else.
They said we did no breeding there whatsoever.
And he completely smashed that story to smithereens.
But still, people, again, repeat it constantly to this day as truth because it was aired
once on a show, you know.
But those are the probably two of the biggest ones.
The third being the creepy story.
And that's just silly.
Like, I mean, I don't think anybody that's been around a long time even gives that dude
any kind of.
Credit, yeah, it's not even worth addressing, to be honest with you on the creepy thing.
It's a I mean, what you know, and then there's there's there's the story of how, you know,
there was accidental pollinations in Florida.
And so really what what it seems like it does seem to me at least is that I do believe that
there was multiple people that brought Kush from Florida to California.
Yeah, I think that's factual, right?
Yeah. You know, we're you know, because obviously people know about Cornbread Ricky and TK.
Yes. Right. He sent that out before he came out physically himself to the state.
Yeah. People know about Matt Bubba and and Bubba Kush and Josh D.
I'll say I'll say flat out when I when I first talked to Matt, I thought he was full of shit
because he comes off like a little bit of a used car salesman when you talk to him.
He's very friendly, but it's his it's like his nature.
So I didn't believe him.
But everything that I've ever researched and found is he has not been wrong once.
And and as much as I was biased against him, I told him, dude, like, I can't poke holes in
your story. Unfortunately, like, I don't believe you, but I can't poke holes in it.
So I'm left with a truth.
As far as so so there's an aspect where and Bubba Bubba and that Kush that went to L.A.
became very famous.
TK became very famous.
There's a strain that got sent to the bay that we called the Florida that I've chatted about
before and I posted about that went into cookie.
And so what we don't know for sure, Irene, Irene comes a little bit later, but that's
another beautiful Kush strain.
But there are there were multiple people that got Kush to California to different people
at different years.
We don't know the slowdown real quick.
So I think I think people would be interested in the Irene story a little bit, don't you
think? Sure.
100 percent. Yeah.
Well, so Irene, I'll let you tell it because.
Yeah. Go for it.
So the original Irene is as best I can remember.
I wish Rude Boy was here right now.
But the original Irene was picked from a bag of weed that went from California to
Atlanta. And what was kind of cool was that we were able to link up Resin Lung and his
crew with the Atlanta crew and how they were shipped.
I'm not going to say it. I think we said it a few times, but you can figure it out.
Anyway, they shifted a certain way and it was so unique that when they were both telling
the story, it was like, holy fuck, there's no way they just made that one up.
It was something that nobody would think of.
It was originally from a bag of weed.
And I want to say either the first Irene was from a bag of Larry O.G.
or the second Irene that they picked after they lost the first Irene.
They picked another selection that was the most similar to the first one.
And that came out of Larry O.G., if I remember correctly.
But that's the rough story.
The Irene that we have now is what you would consider Irene 2.
And that's the one almost everyone has grown.
Only a few people like Smoke Da Herb and Rude Boy really experienced the first Irene.
So, yeah, so there's so basically if you move past the the the origin stories,
right, of who's responsible for it or where it came from, of which there are many,
there was it does seem like the stuff that we know of made its way from Florida to California.
Yeah. And we don't know exactly if all those things were the same cut.
Or there was multiple cuts that came out or there is possibility that there's a cut that shared a name
and was called different things by different crews.
Those are totally possible. Right.
Yeah. But what really happened is, you know, Bubba Kush, Matt Bubba, he brought he him and Josh D brought out Bubba and that and a couple other strains from Florida to a neighborhood in L.A.
Right. And they started growing some rooms of it.
Yeah. Right. And what happened, I think, in L.A. is that L.A. is such a is such a hype town.
And it's it's it's so about flash and it's so about like who has what, whether it's alcohol or cars or watches or clothes or whatever that Kush caught on with a certain clientele.
And then everybody had to have it.
Yeah. And then so demand went through the roof and, you know, there was only so much of it being grown.
And so wholesale became crazy.
Right. Yeah. And then so it became worth a lot.
I mean, what was what was you know, what was it going for back like seventy two hundred?
Yeah. It was wholesale.
Hey, it's a.
Hey, yeah.
You know, six to eight K.
Right. Yeah. And so and and it gave you status if you had it.
Right. And so it just became this craze.
Yeah. In a sense. And in the beginning, there wasn't very many.
Right. Yeah. And the nature of L.A., we've talked about this before with seed companies, but the nature of L.A.
to everybody to pop up with their own shit.
Nobody down there wanted to give anybody else credit for how they got theirs.
Yeah, of course. So the bullshit and the and the stories started happening immediately.
Yeah. You know, and the Bubba, just so everybody knows, the Bubba that that Matt Bubba brought out, it died by 98.
Yeah. The Bubba that everybody has now is not the first Bubba that came to came out there.
Luckily, Bubba is such a specific type and breed.
So true. It probably something similar.
But yeah, that's so I mean, they found the I believe the story is it might even be somebody like Rascal or somebody like that.
Someone found someone tied in, found bag seed.
In original Bubba.
Huh? I don't know. Not Shaw.
No, I they well, I think the thing is, is that and I think that's why it got named Bubba Kush, because they thought Kush pollinated the Bubba.
Yeah, I think Matt Bubba's story, if I remember correctly, and he can correct me on this, is that Bubba is a hybrid.
Bubba Kush is a hybrid of Bubba and OG.
And OG Kush. Yeah.
So the original order lights.
So the original Bubba that came out is no more.
Yeah. Everybody has a lot of light.
Everybody, regardless of how you want to believe the story, according to Matt, who brought it out, they lost the first plant that they called Bubba.
Yes. And Bubba Kush is a hybrid of that plant.
Yeah. Right.
Yeah. Yeah.
It's a hybrid. That's kind of it.
And so to get really confusing within five or 10 years of this plant hitting L.A., there was a whole family of what you call pure Kush.
Right. Yeah. Malibu, pure Kush, Topanga Canyon, pure Kush.
I don't know about all that. I only knew of one pure Kush in Southern California and it was called pure Kush.
It wasn't L.A. pure Kush.
It wasn't fucking there was no Hollywood, no Malibu, none of that.
Malibu, no Topanga, no Suge.
It was called pure Kush and it was a lanky ass OG.
And then there was OG and then there was Kush and then there was OG Kush.
And then then all of a sudden there's a there's a there's a Valley cut.
There's the SFV.
There's a Larry.
There's this. There's that.
There's Bubba Bubba. And all of a sudden the names start proliferating.
Right. Yeah.
To the point where I don't know, by, you know, 05, 06, 07, there was probably most the clubs.
It was so popular that probably most of what clubs sold in Los Angeles was Kush.
Yeah. And there was probably 20 or 30 different Kushes on the menu.
Yeah. And so we really don't know how many original things these things started from.
I mean, we have a buddy that that came to came to our one of our can illuminati parties.
Right. Remember?
And he was telling the story about about how he had bought a couple of pounds of Kush for 8000 bucks.
Right. And he brought it home and he starts breaking up the weed and a couple of seeds fall out.
Yeah. And then he's looking at two seeds from an eight thousand dollar pound that nobody can get.
Yeah. And so he spent the next two days looking at every bud per seat.
And that became, I think, the poison OG.
Oh, yeah. Kostas.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Poison.
But that's what he said. He said he bought two pounds for 16000 bucks.
That's yeah. And he goes, dude, I'm just rolling my first joint at home and I hear a seed hit the table and roll.
And I'm looking at this seed and I'm like, I just spent eight grand a pound.
Yeah. Wonder if there's more seeds.
What if the weed looks like this?
Yeah. And so every every seed, you know, and we have a good buddy who got the Kush in 99, we think.
Right. Yeah. Yeah.
It's 99 somewhere between 99.
He's tied into some of the first people outside of outside of Matt and Josh D that got it.
Yeah. In Los Angeles.
And it was one of the guys.
Mansion crews.
Yeah. And one of the one of the people intimately involved in running it very early on.
And so we heard a lot of a lot of tales from him about sort of like how it spread and how it started and what it was like.
And the politics in the clubs.
Right. A lot of times clubs would name something because they wanted to be the only club with the Louis or the only club with the this.
And he has this funny story. I can't tell it like him.
And he has a great accent. I could never tell anything like that.
There was some there was some Armenian that, you know, he would always joke about and like he would be like, let me know.
And he'd be like two hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
That's what he wanted for one rooted snip.
Oh, yeah. His O.G. that he had.
Yeah. Right. And, you know, and so, you know, it's.
Yeah. But imagine paying eight thousand dollars a pound and you find it seeded to him.
That just meant he was going to be able to grow some of those seeds and grow his own eight thousand dollar pounds.
Yeah. He was excited as all fucking get up.
Yeah. You know, he was stoked because that gave him away where it's like before it was like there wasn't you think about the demand of L.A.
and how many people live in Los Angeles and how much wealth there is.
And when there's only a few garages or a few rooms of these things cracking, it goes fucking lickety split.
Yeah. Yeah. There's way more demand.
And so changed we from then on.
And so maybe we should maybe we should take a step back from the story because, you know, there's lots of people that like to talk specifics about the origins and how they're tied into it and all that.
Whatever specific cuts.
But what happened is, is because that weed was worth so much money and because it became so popular in this area that had like twenty five million humans.
Yeah. And it's sort of like a pop culture, like, you know, melting pot, for lack of a better term.
Right. Yeah.
Shit blew up.
And then all of a sudden all these different names popped up and everyone wanted to have their own.
And then what that also started doing was because brokers could make more money off Kush.
They started pushing all these people 800 miles away in Mendocino and Humboldt and Stuff County.
Right. Yeah.
So grow weed that they could make more money off.
Yeah. And they didn't want.
I mean, you know, like my buddy who gave me the Flow Rider.
He didn't do it out of generosity.
He did it because I was giving him the Super Dog and the Dog and the Maui and the Super Skunk and different things.
And he had this Kush that he could make way better margin on.
Yeah. So he was like, give me that.
Grow this. He didn't tell me he was going to make way more money.
Yeah. I didn't even know that that was the rake down there.
Right. But what it did is it pushed a lot of people to start growing similar stuff to feed the market.
Yeah. And the purple, the purple craze that we talked about before with Caleb and all that, that sort of started like the do you have this clone only and you better have it.
And if you have this specific clone only, I'll buy all your weed.
And if you don't, it's going to be less than maybe, maybe I will.
Maybe I won't. Yeah.
Right. And Kush was another wave just like that.
Yeah. You could sell every gram of Kush you have.
And so brokers started going around and started trying to giving their.
I mean, like who fucking ghost.
Right. There was people that sold cuts of Kush for 30 to 50 thousand, 100 thousand, 200 thousand dollars.
Yeah. And because.
Yeah, because they could then they could fill rooms with it.
And it was like an investment.
Yeah. There was violence over Kush, which is how the you know, I mean, I don't we don't really like to tell that story too much.
But it does seem like the what I call the 56 day headband.
Yep. Started out name, named something else in the Kush crew.
Yeah. And there was some stress and some violence and some whatever.
And they fled. They fled to the bay and they wanted to call it something else.
So they didn't get in trouble for it.
Yep. And they chose the name headband.
Right. You know, and then, you know, there's a lot of people that, oh, well, what what cut?
Maybe we should talk about this, too.
I firmly believe that the cut that Josh brought to L.A.
first with Matt.
It's really hard to figure out the lineage.
What do you mean as far as what's actually in it?
Yeah, there's a bunch of people that think when they get ghost that that's it.
Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah.
There's a bunch of people that think when they get 92 OG that that's it.
There's a bunch of people that think when they pop Josh D.
OG seeds that it's.
But forget about that one for a minute.
I'm just saying some people think SFB.
Some people think Josh.
Some people think ghost.
Some people think 92.
Right. Someone mentioned that earlier again.
You know, and our buddy said he doesn't think any of those are it.
Yeah. Right.
Yeah. So what happened in L.A.
is everybody came up with all these different names.
It's not even like there's one SFB.
There's a few that float around.
Oh, yeah. Well, there's not just one.
There's not one. Oh, not one.
Larry. Yeah, for sure.
There's multiples.
So what you consider is like SFB is it.
There might have been one time when when it was called it, but a lot of what's
currently circulated right now is that, isn't it?
Yeah. And some of the people that bought ghost off ghost
like 20 years ago for high dollar, they don't think the ghost cut is it?
Let's get passed around. That's not what they got 20 years ago.
Well, the guy that goes around is ghost.
Now that people talk about is not the same ghost that had the cut
and traded with Oregon kid for Michigan.
Most people confuse this Kelly guy with the original guy.
Yeah, there's a lot of the ghost cut right now.
Isn't the first ghost cut?
Yeah. What everybody knows is ghost grow.
Isn't the first ghost that passed the ghost cut who now lives in the Midwest again?
Yeah, I don't even know if ghost grows the same one as the one that was going around
calling himself Kelly Cush Farms.
That wasn't the Michigan ghost.
The Michigan ghost.
I talked to one of his buddies and he asked to be put back in touch with Oregon kid.
And that's the first time I realized that the ghost that was kind of hanging around
Oregon kid wasn't the same ghost that passed the cut.
So I put him back in touch, but I don't know what happened from there.
So people are people are ripping through the stories or whatever. Right.
And it's because the first people that the first people that brought it out,
sometimes with certain strains, you lose chain of custody.
Yeah. You know, I mean, there was an issue where freaking,
you know, I don't think Josh would get too mad if I say this,
but like Josh lost the cut in an accident.
And none of his friends in L.A. wanted to give it back to him.
And he had to go to another story and he had to go to a friend in the bay
that he had stashed it with to get it back. Yeah.
Right. Yeah. And that's typical weed.
Yeah. Because people were like, oh, it didn't even matter
that he was the guy that they got it from. It was profit.
Yeah. A lot of these original guys that had it, they lost it. Right.
And and there's an aspect where it's like and I don't mean
I'm not saying that like people have fake ghosts.
What I'm saying is, is that there's four or five cuts out there
that all claim to be the cut that Matt and Josh brought to L.A.
That's yeah. And they're different.
And those cuts, if you grow them side by side, they're not the same cut. Yeah.
Like I don't and I don't mean not the same cut that they first brought.
I mean, not the same cut to each other in the same room at the same time. Yeah.
So then how do you know how do you know what, you know,
and nobody called ninety two ninety two.
Yeah, that that's a more recent adaptation to the name.
That's a more recent adaptation.
The first name there was no going back to like when it was first around
for a number of years, no one called it ninety two. Yeah.
That came later. Yeah. You know.
And so, you know, we don't people don't know.
I don't know if the ninety two Hollywood Hills cut is the same as the Flowrider.
We don't know if it could the Flowrider be the exact same cut
that Josh brought out to California, to L.A.
It could. I don't know.
Yeah. You know, I got that one early, but I didn't get the Josh cut early
and I didn't get it with provenance that I would know for sure.
Yeah. They don't know.
I see people keep asking about the shit, Shug Knight and the Kush war.
That story is a bag of worms that no one wants to touch
because nobody has any facts really around it.
So I'll leave it alone.
But yeah, there's rumors going around that they might have some relation.
And when the one that you think would came first might not be the one
that actually is the first one between the two. Yeah.
You know, so so there's a lot there's basically I bet there's a bunch of people
that have different named OG's out there that are the same OG.
And one guy's one guy's Larry could be another guy's SFB could be another guy.
Sure. Ghost. Yeah. Right.
Because these names became interchangeable.
And then you start adding names and then you start getting Louis and fire and,
you know, Diablo and yeah, and that is that a dud.
And there's all the pure Kush names and all those riffs.
And then there's the master cushions and two or three of the master
cushions look like Bubba cushions. Yeah.
And one of them that I used to have was tall and lanky and dark and very stringy.
How I still think two dogs.
I still think two dog has the fucking SoCal master.
Every time I see it, it looks exactly like it.
Hell's Angels. And then you say that, you know, yeah, you could you could probably
name and there was probably a 10 year period where like you could walk into a club
and they would have 20, 25 different names on the menu of Kush. Yeah.
Right. Oh, yeah.
Some some some collectors out here were only OG's and that was their shit.
Like we only carry OG's.
It would be a fucking list of like 40 different OG's. Yeah.
And what's funny is that, you know, fucking dude, Ghost Grow or whatever,
he rages because there's people in L.A.
that their entire career has just been learning how to grow Kush.
Yeah. And selling it for high dollar.
Yeah. And it had such a long, successful, popular run before things changed.
Yeah. Some people's entire careers have just been cropping Kush. Yeah.
You know, but there's no like there's
so there's this aspect where because it's one of the most famous families
of weed out there. Yeah.
There's a bunch of origin stories and there's a bunch of claims.
And probably most of the cuts that came out of L.A.
are bag seed. Yeah. One would think.
And then sometimes that's what I always thought.
And then sometimes a different crew would get it and they'd throw a different name.
Yeah. Or just renames and bag seeds. Yeah.
Yeah. And then, you know, I mean, I like Josh or whatever,
but Josh did the stupid fucking thing where he took he took like
what H.A.O.G. and something else and something
and crossed it all together and then called it original Josh D.
No, that was Karma who did that. That was Karma.
Yeah, it was Karma's doing not not Josh D's.
Yeah. Oh, God. Well, then, yeah, Karma can suck it.
Because because it's an obvious play to tie it to.
Yeah. You know. Yeah.
Use like triangle Kush and.
Oh, yeah. And H.A.O.G. and something else.
And Diablo or shit. Yeah. Yeah.
You know, but yeah.
And so we never heard when was the first time you even heard the word 90?
Did you even hear the term 92?
Oh, gee, the first 10 years you heard about O.G.?
I didn't really hear that until like four or five years ago.
The 92 attachment that specific year.
Yeah. And so now people are like, oh, well, is this
that this should be the first one, right? It's the 92.
It's the one that started. Yeah.
And it's like one of the more recent O.G. names. Yeah.
You know, how did the Louis get started?
How did the fire get started? How did this get started?
Like, it's hard to find these stories.
Yeah, because people don't have an interest in honesty.
What they were trying to do is sell a different Kush for a high dollar.
Oh, there you go. Yeah, you go.
Nature Farm has all those old something and they aren't dutted.
There you go. So now, you know, you know, yeah, he's got the battle.
He's got K&F Cures Duds.
I've seen his movie. Yeah, we've seen his movie.
He's got everything you want.
You know, he doesn't do any like negative testing or anything like that.
But, you know, he just knows he's just got the sense, you know.
But yeah, fire O.G. is rascal S.F.B.
or maybe fire O.G. to somebody else is something different.
Fire O.G. is a clone.
It came out of a tray of clones, and it was it.
I don't know which specific O.G. it was, but and I don't think he was told
anything more than O.G. and it was fire.
So he called it fire O.G.
That was it. And then later on, Swerve made a cross of fire O.G.
and something else, if I remember correctly, and called it rascal O.G.
Yeah. And so it's one of those things that one of the biggest things about O.G.
is that O.G. and sour, but especially O.G.
is probably one of the first strains that like it just dominated
breeding and hybrids for so long. Yeah.
You know, and what's interesting is like for a long time,
maybe we should talk about this for a second, but for a long time,
people would work O.G.
and they would breed with O.G.
So they would S1 them and kind of the best
pheno would be the one that looked like mom. Yeah. Right.
Yeah. It was really weird.
It was like you wouldn't find a bunch of shit.
And the good ones would be the ones that look exactly like the parent.
Yeah. And then Caleb reversed the TK
and he got a much wider variety of cool phenos.
Yeah. And he found ghost in there and he found
he found ones that looked like a lot of popular ones.
And that's that's like one of those ways for a breeder.
If you're a breeder to know that you have like
you have a mother type situation of a bunch of other cuts
is when you S1 it and you're seeing all those sister
and brother phenos popping out of what you just made.
And that's how you kind of get the idea that triangle might be the predecessor.
So it's interesting because if if, you know, if there was bag seed
and there was multiple cush strains found in that bag seed,
yeah, then the initial bag seed would probably be a hybrid maybe. Right.
And, you know, it seems like there's there's at least one,
maybe a few cushes out there that throw much wider phenos than most of them.
Yeah. So it almost leads it.
It almost leads you to believe that a lot of these cushes are lucky bag seeds.
Yeah. That people found and named.
But because it's an S1 of cush already,
it kind of looks like itself for the most part. Yeah.
It's one of the it's one of the reasons why Caleb and I believe that
the chem dog, the ninety one itself might be an S1.
Yeah. Because it throws such a narrow band.
Yeah. Of phenos.
Like there's a bunch of there's a bunch of physically it doesn't look very different.
Potency wise, it can vary quite a bit in some flavor.
Yeah. But there's a really narrow band of physical expression.
Yeah. And a lot of cushes are like that.
Yeah. Probably because they're bag seed. Yeah.
You know, and it's also interesting, too, that like, you know, I mean, the
the two of the most famous strains out there,
the cush and the sour diesel, neither one of them reverse very easily. Yeah.
A lot of failure with those.
Right. Yeah. They suck.
They suck. So a lot of times, a lot of times things get reversed onto them.
Yeah. You know, that's that's usually how it goes.
The only the only real OGs I'm seeing people like regularly reverse or OG
hybrids, and they have to get lucky and find something that'll reverse.
But most of these old OG cuts, be it, you know, bag seed to bag seeds.
And we're finding that like S2s, S3s, shit like that doesn't reverse well.
For whatever reason, it's really hard to reverse like a multiple self
or multiple bag seed generations.
And that makes sense for OG. It makes sense for a lot of these OGs.
You know, so it's like, yeah, they ended up getting outcrossed
and then people would would would reverse some of them looking for better shit.
And the best shit that they would find was the shit
that looked like the shit they already had. Yeah.
And I got kind of over OG, because while I think it is an amazing strain,
and I'm not here trying to diss it or anything like that,
I don't think that its genetic expression is wide enough
that you would need to keep 20 different ones. Yeah.
And you're like, this one's earthy. This one's lemony.
This one has a slight hint of this.
This one's more tennis balls. This one's darker.
You know? Yeah.
Look at that, Matt. Someone wants you to S1 the hog's breath.
Yeah, I've done it before. I'll do it again.
I haven't I haven't I haven't run it again.
Once it started getting past, I dropped it.
So somebody asked an interesting question.
Why does S2 and S3 and all that get harder?
Because what happens is is you're selfing.
So there's only one set of genes.
And so every time you self, you increase the propensity
of recessive traits that are negative to be able to pop.
Yeah. Right.
And so the deeper you go into selfing, the more narrower
you're putting the genetic pool.
Yeah. And that's when issues start happening.
That's why there's rules against
for humans.
You're not allowed to bang your sister or your first cousin.
Go well. Or your mom or your uncle or you let me tell you from personal experience.
Yeah, that shit sucks, bro.
Yeah. I mean, it took out the whole royal families of Europe.
Yeah. They needed some outcrossing.
Yeah. They kept selfing essentially almost.
Yeah. So that's why.
And then and then, you know, as things get as things get more narrow,
a lot of times S3, S4, it starts getting a lot weaker.
It starts getting a lot more prone to lack of vigor,
stress, other aspects, and there's a lot of regular breeding.
There's a lot of regular breeding that uses selfing successfully.
But it does have your culture in normal agriculture.
Absolutely. Selfing is a massively used technique with great success.
Yeah. In cannabis, it seems to have negative connotations taken.
Maybe maybe people have a different idea, but for me, at least
what it seems like selfing, the biggest thing is, is because most of the things
that we have are our individual cuts and not seed lines anymore.
Yeah. It allows you to see what else is in the genetics besides that one expression.
Yes. You know, if if you had, you know, a hundred seeds of what O.G.
Cush came out of and it was males and females, you'd have a line.
Yeah. But if you have a cut,
then how do you how do you see what it is pure, not outcrossed? Yeah.
So a lot of times, I mean, Caleb talks all the time,
like if people are looking for consistency in in in seed,
then the way to go is some of these outcrosses.
Yeah. A lot of the the the feminized hybrids.
Yeah. A lot of feminized hybrids.
So if you're looking for if you're looking for specific phenos,
but you're willing to tolerate more junk.
Yeah. Go to the S1s.
Yeah. But the S1s are going to have a certain amount of recessive stuff in there
that's undesirable. Yeah.
Because it bred with itself.
So the outcrosses, you know, Urkel reversed onto Cush
would will be more consistent than Urkel onto Urkel.
That's why, again, why like when I talk about the blue bonnet
and despite what was said about it, that it was a pure blueberry line,
I still think to this day that it's a hybrid
because all those recessive traits that blueberry usually carries
when you further inbreed it are gone, completely erased.
And I talked before about how I didn't like the the pure blue lines
very much at all. Yeah. Yeah.
But then you outcross them to different other amazing things.
And those kids came out way better than the parent, in my opinion.
Exactly. And I think it just it's I think it was massive inbreeding
going on in such a small environment and the constant crossing of two
two distinctly different expressions like crossing Indica to Sativa or whatever.
Most people don't breed like that.
They breed in this direction.
Most people don't keep constantly in crossing two different types
through generations and that that caused some weird inbreeding to go on.
And and and not all the best traits to be apparent.
DJ is really unusual, dude.
Yeah, because if you believe him, what he says, he basically took four plants.
And never added anything else. Yeah. Yeah.
And everything that he has comes from those four plants. Yeah. Right.
It was like a Oregon purple tie and a juicy fruit tie
and an Afghani and an Afghani.
Yeah. And maybe something else or that's it.
The the the Oregon purple tie was chocolate tie, wahak and gold.
So it's like, yeah, yeah.
OK, count those two.
If you count those two, it's four. Yeah, exactly.
You know, and then a lot of times all those things were only used once.
Yeah. According to him, never, never back crossed to again or reintroduced.
And he just lied and he just worked within the lines. Yeah.
And so, you know, Camara has talked about how he kind of use all of DJ's stuff
is this big mangled inbred specific thing. Yeah.
But at least that's cool because you never mixed anything else into it. Yeah.
But that's really unusual.
It is. It's everything about how he made
your I agree.
Like I spent I spent several thousand dollars on on those specific seeds.
And I had to really work to find things that were good blueberry turps
because that just wasn't what I was seeing in the line.
I told you I ran four hundred and four hundred and fifty of four of his lines.
Yeah. You know, and I wish I was bragging about keepers.
Yeah. But, you know, like I wouldn't have loop on it without those lines.
So there's great potential in those lines.
But I think like you said, it's it's in the hybridization.
I really it's in the hybridization.
You know, it's kind of like that thing with like, you know, the closest thing
that we have to a to an to an actual idea, people throw around IBL all the time.
It drives you at nine nuts. Yeah.
IBL swing at. Yeah. Right.
Because an IBL is essentially something that's been bred so consistently
that it just is what it is. Yeah, it is what it is.
Everything's looking like clones of each other from.
And everything looks like clones of each other.
So if you have some kind of ideal where you're trying to grow
fields of exact replicas, it might be a good tech.
If you want to breed all of the genetic diversity out of your shit
and everything that you cross with it is going to look like it.
Yeah. Then, you know, fuck.
Yeah. You know, but I mean, that that that 88 G13 hash plant
kind of throws phenos that are just like it.
Yeah. It does.
Junk. You cross things, the Jeep junk, and it's very deep junkish.
Yeah. Yeah. Well, the gene did point out that like there are.
So I when I refer to IBLs, I do think a deep junk because visually it is.
It is very uniform.
I mean, there's like two phenos, like two
visually expressive phenos that look
distinct. But when you smoke it, some have a much better high than the others.
So true that.
So I when I was speaking about it, I was only speaking visually when it when,
in fact, a true IBL would be for all traits across the board.
But that's why it drives Matt nine nuts, because there are no IBLs in cannabis.
Yeah. You just can't.
And so and so an IBL is basically something that breeds true for all traits.
Yeah. And all the seeds are going to be very narrow within that tiny little band.
Yeah. You can have a true breeding strain that's only true breeding for one trait.
Yeah. Like the bonnet. It's true breeding for blueberry turps.
And that's it. Right.
Or, you know, you could have you could have something like skunk one
that's true breeding for, you know, improving calyx to leaf ratio or,
you know, bud structure or this or that.
But it has a variety of turps or, you know, things that, you know, so true breeding.
And IBL is like the furthest example of true breeding.
It's like when all the characteristics are the same. Yeah.
And true breeding is just one or more of the characteristics
you can count on seeing in the project.
Yeah. So when someone the other day, I can't recall who it was.
I think it was a lady was saying that that they have an F2 IBL.
And people are like, what the fuck? That doesn't make any sense.
And that lady was like, no, it makes sense.
It doesn't make sense to have an F2 IBL. It's not possible.
No. And so there's a lot of terms that are thrown around.
IBL is the worst one because, yeah, you should be able to buy
a hundred seeds of an IBL and see less than two percent variation.
Yeah. And I think I think where the miscommunication is,
is that a line being inbred is not the same thing as an inbred line.
And the line breeding is not the same thing as an IBL.
You know, IBL is so specific and line breeding and inbreeding in a line
don't denote an IBL.
It is a process to getting towards an IBL.
But I think that's where a lot of confusion lies.
Yeah. If there's if there's a bunch of variation of any traits
at all in your weed, it's not an IBL. Yeah.
You know, IBL is basically a way to an agriculture
to grow clones of each other from seed stock.
Yeah, that's its goal.
Yeah. So, you know, if you're going to grow an IBL for weed,
it's like you're going to breed all the cool shit out of it.
It's not going to be worth breeding with once it's an IBL for the most part,
because it's going to have such a narrow range.
It's going to make everything look like itself.
Yeah. And so, you know, so if you made an IBL, maybe it would be just,
you know, if it was something that was just so incredible,
but it probably be a bunch of work.
Yeah. It'd probably be a bunch of work and it would suck.
Yeah. You know, realistically speaking.
And it's in cannabis.
Another reason it's very hard to to make IBLs is because males
express different than females, even if they are the same expression.
Males are even if they're the same general phenotype.
They the male always grows taller than the female.
So they don't look identical.
So trying to choose the male expression of a female line
that you want to find is very fucking hard to do.
Yeah. And that's why it's much easier and faster to do it through selfing.
And there's an aspect to where someone was like,
well, what if you just picked a really good plant to IBL?
That's assuming that all those traits will be the dominant trait.
The more that you breed inbreed into itself
and you're not going to lose them by inbreeding. Yeah.
You know, you know, so so there's an aspect there where it's like it.
Someone just said that's a good question.
I missed whatever the question was.
I was trying to look for it just now.
I don't know if Matt, if you can find it or someone wants to, you know,
the whole thing, there is no cubed term.
The only motherfucker that ever used the term cute, like
like the C-99 really cube, that was a Mr.
Soul thing that was sort of his his own terminology for.
He still has his and even after this, like he still has his fucking train of wheels.
He's a slow down. Oh, my God.
But yeah, there's no cubing was just like he found some bag seed
and he started inbreeding it to itself a bunch.
You know, which was already probably inbred.
And so, yeah, it's not only lock in shitty traits.
It's like, you know, one of the reasons why they don't want you to bang your sister
is because the shit that happens to you when you start breeding humans
too close is a lot of mental issues, physical issues,
various kinds of things start popping up that in normal humans are never dominant.
Yeah. But if you inbreed enough, you can combine those two
not dominant genes and it'll pop dominant.
Oh, that question.
He said, what about this isn't a real question.
What about recombinant inbred line like Tony Green and GG for RIO?
I can't even answer that like without laughing. Stop, guys.
You know, and I think that's the guy who is talking shit about Caleb
and said he was like F-12 or some fucking.
I mean, there's there's there's an aspect where it's like, let's let's let's be honest.
It's like there's a lot of there's a lot of terms that get loosely applied
to cannabis. Yeah. And they're not that well understood.
And it's not anybody's fault because it's not like there's seminars on this shit.
And a lot of information gets passed through friendships.
And a lot of times some of those friendships
like aren't passing the most reliable information about things. Yeah.
Right. Yeah. You know, that's what it is.
And so people don't know what the term means.
And it sounds like they've done work if they put stupid ass terms at the end of it.
F-12, like if you really think that some dude that's been around not that long,
is it F-12 and you do not understand breeding or how long it takes
to make it through generations and to do real breeding,
to make sure that generation is correct.
And if you've made an error to go back to the previous generation, keep working
because you're never going to hit it right 12 times in a row. Guaranteed.
So implying that he has worked something like 12 generations
is asinine to people actually do that.
And there's friends of ours that are breeders that are like, dude,
I had this awesome line and then I did this thing to it
and I didn't end up keeping enough seed from before I did that thing.
Yeah. And then I fucked it up.
Yeah, I did. I did.
Just get rid of it, to get rid of that seed and go one to two
gens back and go in a different direction.
But I didn't keep the seed and I fucked it up.
And it's not as good as it was before.
And I can't make it the way it was before because I didn't keep that gen.
So it's basically like a misstep.
Yeah. Right. You can make a misstep.
If you don't save if you don't save seed from every single rip,
you know, and when people say F2, F3, F4, I mean, what that means
is that you're supposed to grow a bunch of seed, pick males and females.
Yeah. That exhibit traits that you want, cross them and then breed them.
OK, here's a question and I'm going to address it just because me and me
and CSI were talking about like an hour ago or before we started this anyways.
But is crossing an elite to an elite breeding or pollen chucking?
I consider regular breeding like using a male.
I consider that vacation and taking days off like that is the easiest shit to do.
You don't have to do anything.
You just they they make their seeds themselves.
You don't have you might have to shake it around. That's about it.
Breeding using reversal techniques is a lot more involved.
It's it's a lot more unpredictable.
You can make a lot more errors a lot real fast.
I mean, you could you could take something and isolate it
and make it more true breeding really fast.
But you can also make huge errors right away.
And very rarely does a pollination go where you can just like get something
and shake it in a reversal and the seeds make themselves.
That just doesn't really happen that often.
A lot of times you have to get in there with fucking tweezers,
tweeze out each one, shake the fucking pollen out.
Half of that shit won't be good.
And it's just because that's that's how it goes.
So there's an aspect to which I should mention.
And that's the reason why Matt said you're not going to do 12.
Well, readings that all make sense.
And what he means by that is that let's say you're at F3
and you grew up a bunch of F3s and you're ready to make your F4s.
And then you realize that you don't like that combo. Yeah.
And you want to go back one generation earlier and try again.
Yeah, because you didn't like that selection.
So you're like in order to get to F12, that means 12 times
you would have to grow up seeds like what you see.
Pick females and males of each one, cross them together,
grow up their children and just keep doing that.
And every single time, every single F gen, you're like, fuck, yeah, I won.
Yeah, fuck yeah, I'm good.
A lot of times you're going to get somewhere and be like,
oh, that went in a direction.
I don't like that nearly as much as the F4.
This F5 sucks.
I got to go back to F4 again.
I did a green crack BX one.
And I, you know, I was one of the early growers and breeders with green crack.
I love that fucking strain.
I don't know why. It's just nice and mangoey.
It was really beautiful purple. I'm a sucker for purples.
But in the BX one, I crossed it to and actually done a few.
But the one that I ran with was the platinum banana OG
as the male from it and outcrossed to that back to the green crack.
And all I found was a lot of platinum
banana OG plants and not many green cracks.
And I didn't expect that because usually green crack breeds dominant.
But that was one of those cases where it's like, OK, even though it's a BX one
and it sounds like it should be super green, cracky,
that's not how it played out in in practice.
It was only in theory.
So it kind of was an epic fail.
And this is why breeding is such a bitch,
because you spend all this time and energy doing it.
And then you're like, oh, I don't like that.
That choice. Yeah. Back to the front.
Go back. Go back.
You know, go, you know, slide, slide back down and start over. Yeah.
And so there's a lot of missteps
and there's a lot of things that you hope will happen.
Like, I'm going to take this and cross it to this.
And I'm hoping these traits come together.
And then you're like, oh, that's a horrible.
Yeah, I got to back up.
And that's why so many people just like to make one one off outcrosses
to different things, not test it and just release it
and just move on to something else. Yeah.
Because you can spend a bunch of time dicking around
and that's so much time.
I mean, there was there's an aspect where Bodhi was telling me when
when he first got the 88 G13 hash plant, right?
From Ndn guy seeds. Yeah.
He didn't realize that they were already at four.
Yeah. So he kept the first
he kept males and females of the first round and didn't lose them.
But then he took it three more gens. Yeah. Right.
And it got shittier and shittier every gen. Yeah.
And what he ended up using was the very first seeds
that he popped from the initial seeds that he got. Yeah.
And that's what it and that's what's in all those hybrids that people buy from him
is because those those moms and dads made way better crosses. Yeah.
Than any of the intentional work he did after,
because he thought he was getting it kind of raw.
So he's like, oh, open pollinated a couple of times.
And I'll put that. Yeah. Yeah.
You know, and he spent all this time three doing going three gens.
That's a lot of time.
That is a lot of time, a lot of effort. It's not rewarded.
Yeah. And then you're like and then he's like, each one of these
gems sucks ass and I'm not going to use them.
Yeah. I'm just going to stick with this first shit I have over here.
Yeah. I could have saved myself a year. Yeah.
You know, and so that shit happens.
And I can guarantee you after being in this business this long that
what's what's sad and what a lot of people have noticed that
that are in this business is that they're the how quickly things sell it.
How much work you put into it has no reliance on that.
It's all in the name. It's all in the hype.
It's all in that kind of stuff.
So there's no real reward to putting in all that extra work to then fail
and spend a lot of money doing it or to then succeed and still
not be able to outsell something else that's being hyped.
So when people when people make comments about like,
I don't see breeders doing long work anymore, there's a reason.
It's just not financially viable anymore.
And as bad as it sucks to hear that, as bad as it sucks to say it.
That's where it's at.
And that's why most readers, if you were to ask them like,
you know, to like people breed and they put in a bunch of crosses
and then they make a bunch of packaging and stuff.
And I'm not dissing it by any means, but I'm just saying that they don't have time
to test every round of everything.
You just can't anymore.
Before release, you know, it's not it's not it's not feasible.
You know, you you might look through the things that you're the most interested in
always, but yeah, and see and be like, oh, I really want to see what's in this hybrid.
You know, even that is the minimum.
I can think of like seven people that do even that much.
You know what I mean? It's very it's very difficult.
And then there's an aspect where, you know, I mean, Matt and I, when we were
researching, like I guess you'd call it last season's podcast that we were doing
and we were doing a bunch of nevel work, you could go through the sensei catalog
from 91 to 95 and it barely changed.
Yeah, barely at all.
Just little tiny things.
Barely changed. You know, some some names here and there, one or two things.
But maybe in five years they added three or four things to the catalog.
Yeah. Right.
And now it's like people come out with 20 or 25 new strains
every crop, every time they make make a drop.
Yeah, a lot of the times.
And then when they make another drop six months later, it's a totally different set
of shit. Yeah. So it's become vastly different.
People used to be able to get away with Simon from serious seeds.
For 20 years, he sold six things.
Yeah. Right.
That don't work no more.
White Russian, chronic, AK,
Kali mist, bubble gum and
one more. One more than I'm forgetting.
Yeah. Anyway, he sold he sold six lines.
Yeah. And he made those six lines over and over.
A I said, I think, but we can look it up.
But maybe I think it was six.
So I named five off the top of my head.
It was six for sure.
But it was six. But, you know, 15 years of just making.
I'm going to make these same hybrids again.
Yeah, I'm going to make them. I'm going to make them.
I'm going to make them. I'm going to make them.
And it was like they didn't have to change that much since his catalog.
The first five or six years was pretty consistent.
And then the last three or four years in the 90s,
they added four or five or six more things. Yeah.
But then it stayed consistent after that. Yeah.
And now it's like that's not what breeders or growers or anyone expects.
It's got to be all new shit.
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, even with me early on, I would like to clock
the clockwork orange. I'd always keep that in stock.
And like the white Russian big ones.
I think you did say that.
Maybe I said Russian. I don't know.
Yeah, I don't know. But it kept it in stock.
I mean, over the years, you realize that's not even viable to do anymore
because people want new and now and new and now at all times.
And not everyone, obviously, but the majority of the seed people buying seeds.
That's how it goes.
And if you don't do that, you it's not a viable company anymore.
And so Matt and I laugh because we read all this stuff
about what people think breeders act most, a lot of breeders are actually doing.
Yeah. Versus what they actually do.
Yeah. And they're like, oh, these guys are testing this and that.
And they're looking for herms and they're looking for this
and they're doing this and that.
And they're making choices and selections and they're not most of them.
Yeah. Because the most profitable way right now to make seeds
is just to like blow off a room.
Do you know, collect the seeds?
I think it's even worse than that.
I think the most profitable way to make seeds like the compound and guys like that,
they buy seeds from other people already made and label them something they're hyping.
And there's a bunch of stuff that goes on with like people would be shocked to know
that, you know, how many how many of their like some of their favorite
Cali people got their seeds made in Spain.
Yeah. Yeah. You know, or I had some dude that they know that has a tent,
make seeds and act like they're blowing up their facilities. Yeah.
Yeah. And so there's a lot of there's a lot of fakery there, you know,
and people eat it up and they realize that they with I.G.
and with these things, they can control the narrative and hype
and people never see behind the screen door.
Yeah. And so the amount that they think that they're.
Yeah. Most aren't even germ testing.
Most aren't even taking 100 or 200 seeds and spending two or three days
and making sure they get a good pop rate.
Yeah. No. And that's what fucked Candy Rain.
Yeah. And pop, you know, and he sold them, they sold them for like 800 bucks a piece
or 800 bucks a pack or something like that, you know.
And but so there's all these things that they think they're breeders
or like these mad scientists, like really putting in the work.
And most and that's how they present themselves.
Yeah. And then the people that do put in work and but don't show it that much
for various reasons, they get called out for being the big guys that aren't doing
the work. Yeah. All the time.
And you're like, dude, your hero is like paying some kids to do the work
while doing photo ops, while ordering half of it from Dina Femme in Spain.
Right. Yeah.
And you think he's been carefully working on it for the past 12, 12 months?
Yeah. You know, and he's just putting his name on it.
It's literally a re label.
Yeah. So it goes.
It's how it goes, you know, and and there's not a lot of pressure.
So I'm not just and so what Matt was basically saying is that there's not incentive.
Or for financial survival for most people to do
what the customer base would like them to do.
Yeah. In my opinion.
Yeah. No, there isn't.
It's just not there. It's not there anymore.
Unfortunately, it used to be there.
And I think a lot of us would rather just quit than join the stupid shit parade.
Yeah. I mean, think about it for a minute, you know, think about how many people out
there can do what our buddy CSI does.
Yeah. Which is show pictures of rooms regularly of what was running
and show pictures of seeds that he made.
That there's 200 females growing in a room.
Yeah. You know, and you can go years and years and years back of he hasn't
he hasn't popped everything he's made. That's crazy.
Yeah. But he's constantly popping stuff that he's made.
And looking through it and that kind of dedication is like uber rare.
You know, it's like him and a few other and a few other people
and some hobbyists who are doing it for love.
And most of the famous people know.
Yeah. No, definitely not.
Because it's just not financially feasible and they don't have the space
and they don't really have any goals either.
They're trying to just make a bunch of money off a seed drop.
Yeah. Caleb, Caleb, I can guarantee you will spend every dime doing it right
because he's so OCD and autistic about how he gets it done.
And it's very admirable.
He also his favorite part of the whole process is seeing what's in the hybrids.
He makes. Oh, yeah. Yeah.
That's actually testing.
That's actually the part that keeps him going.
The rest of it is kind of a soul drenching grind.
Yeah. But that he gets excited about. Yeah.
So that's cool.
I've never met a man more excited about genetics and seeds than that man.
And it's it's it's fucking awesome because he's one of the him and not so.
And a few of our other friends, there's the only people that I've ever met
that I can sit there and nerd out with like that and dork out for hours
on the phone and just talk about genetics.
And and our wives all hate it, I'm sure. Yeah.
I actually have a buddy who just mentioned it. Me, too.
He's I have a buddy who's like as old of a seed, weird breeder,
interested in the process as you'd ever meet.
There are people scattered throughout Mendo and Humboldt here and there.
There've never been a majority anywhere.
Yeah, it's definitely a weird offshoot.
Yeah, I want to have I want to have Uranus come on sometime and talk to you
because I know he's a big fucking nerd like us.
He he is, you know, so a bunch of my friends, it's like even fucking Caleb.
It's like there's people that aren't comfortable talking.
In public as much.
Yeah, it's a hard thing, kind of.
Yeah, I do believe, you know, because you're live like in person,
just sitting around with a couple of buddies smoking joints and shooting the shit.
If you could capture that, it's amazingly conversational.
Oh, yeah. Yeah.
That's why, like the party is like even even for me to sit back
and watch everyone like talk genetics.
And it's like like even some of the people, like everybody that was involved
with OG Kush, except for Big Ricky, was it one of them?
You know, like everybody, but him was there.
And you could listen to all of them talk all at once.
Everybody part of that.
People should know the guy that's famous for Irene Rude Boy.
You know, he came out with his whole crew one night.
Yeah, that was fucking cool.
Yeah. And and brought his herb.
And we had our you know, we sat around and we saw we shot the shit, you know,
and exchanged a bunch of stories and, you know, confirmed a bunch of things.
And, you know, so yeah, Nasser does not need to grow a mustache.
Dude, I mean, the thing is about mustaches, right?
I'll just say this, OK, and this this is no prejudice whatsoever.
I'm 46. OK. Yeah.
When I was in my 20s and 30s, I would say
the only people that had mustaches were like police, firemen and gays.
Yeah. There was no dudes just now it's back in style.
And there's a bunch of like 20 somethings or whatever, just rocking massive
70 stashes and shit.
But it was like it went out of style like the station wagon.
Yeah. For a while. Yeah.
And he looks like he literally looks like a Tom of Finland character
when he has the full stash.
Shit. Yeah.
Oh, do Superdawg. Let's do Superdawg before we're done.
Superdawg. OK, we are getting close to being done.
But I will people but we're bugging, so I will give a brief synopsis of Superdawg.
So let's do it.
Matt sent me some stuff that like blew my head off about Superdawg
in in some forum posts and stuff like that that we won't get into.
Yeah. But needless to say,
I think what happened is, is that there's a
there's a few versions and there's a few things that happened over time. Right.
And my buddy who I never mentioned, I just call him Staten Island.
It's mostly it's a it's a it's a bunch of it's it's a bunch of his story, really.
But yeah. You know,
the story starts, I guess, with he gave the super skunk to
Chemdog to Greg. Yeah. Right.
And in 93, I think. And
94 ish, Greg calls him up and he's super excited because
the super skunk had harmed onto the chemdoc.
Right. And he got a bunch of seed and he grew the seed up and he said,
this seed is so amazing.
I'm growing this stuff instead of the Chemdog.
It's unbelievable. Right? Yeah.
And so there was this aspect where GATT where my buddy Staten Island thought,
OK, maybe we could blend these two things together.
Yeah. But we didn't know shit.
He didn't know shit about SDS or reversals or anything.
rehearsals or anything like that back there, right?
This is so pre-pre that it's unbelievable.
So Homie, 3000 miles away, just had an accident and got some seat.
And so Homie out here thought, oh, maybe I'll have an accident.
Maybe it'll do this.
But he basically started the project and he took a Hawaiian plant and crossed it to the
super skunk cut.
And then he got a super skunk line, for lack of a better term.
Bread that a couple of times.
And then he took some males of that and we tossed it on the Chem 91.
And the super dog was born.
And I was helping him a little bit in the middle of that.
And then him and I worked together on hunting through a bunch of super dog itself.
And doing further outcrosses.
So there was some stuff on the East Coast that might have had a similar name that came
about in a very different fashion.
You know, but...
No, get the fuck out of here.
Yes, you know what, I'm going to tell one real quick story.
So I was obsessed with finding that super dog cut because I was a big fan of Gisele.
And supposedly they were similar genetics.
One was Chem 91 super skunk, supposedly.
One was supposedly Chem D super skunk, according to the Canada Bible at the time.
So I had already had Gisele and I loved it.
And the super dog really interests me.
And I wasn't sure if maybe they got it wrong and it's the same cut.
So I remember asking Greg back then, Chem Dog, about it.
And he kind of inferred that he had bred it.
And then I saw another post today where he again inferred he bred it.
So the fact that it was the same genetics as your guys' out in the West Coast, and there's
still no pictures, no provenance, nothing for it.
And every time I asked for any info about it, all I get, and with Gisele as well, all
I get is let me check my notes.
And I like to do a lot.
I like Chem Dog a lot.
He's a good dude.
I've met his wife.
She's really cool.
But yeah, that's as far as I can get with it.
But I do think, in my opinion, I think they didn't know much about Super Dog.
They heard about it and that he may have taken credit for it back then.
And it was probably what was going on with Gabby and you.
So we did a bunch of work on it and it took us a week.
And you know, it's like there's a lot of projects like that where when you don't have some specific
goal in terms of like timing or anything, it's like we popped off a rip here and then
four months later, six months later.
We did another stage of it over here.
And then, you know, it's kind of like that.
You're doing it along while you're growing.
And we ended up what happened is what most people what most people know of is we started
picking phenos like the seven, the three, the 30.
There's some pictures of it in the Canna Bible.
Yeah, I started spreading it around.
I started giving out selected cuttings to friends and we crossed it.
There was a time when we did, you know, we were trying to do, I don't know what you'd
call it.
It's not quite open pollination.
Okay.
But we basically took out of hundreds of seeds.
We took like our four or five favorite males.
Combined with about seven or eight of our favorite females.
And we put them in a room and we bloomed them.
And then we threw in literally every good cutting that we had at the time.
So actual Chem 91, actual Super Skunk, the Warlock, my Black Dominica, the Maui, the
Mendo perps.
The Crippie.
Yeah.
The Crippie.
No, no, we didn't have.
This was before I didn't have a Kush.
Yeah, I didn't have a Kush quite yet or anything like that.
So we did basically just like it was like bred amongst itself.
And then we bred it to like every fire cut we had at the time.
Go ahead.
Oh my gosh.
So you know, that one totally distracted me.
But I did do that herbalist.
I did do that one.
That's what I call the Skunk Spray Chem line.
And that's the only other one besides the Erlenmeth Gany line that I consistently can
can make skunky shit come out of really easily.
So I mean, you know, he doesn't really like to chat in public or whatever, but he probably
my buddy from Staten Island is probably should get the most credit for the Super Dog because
he put the most time into it.
Him and I did do projects with it together.
And then it was the projects that him and I were doing together that ended up getting
spread out and getting photographed and getting traded to people.
And that's kind of I think where it started popping up on the forums.
And people started talking about it and seeing it.
I gave a bunch of Super Dog hybrids to Mandelbrot.
And that's kind of the basis of the males that he started with his Emerald Mountain
Seed Company and all that.
So that so it started it got it got mixed into some other things that are pretty famous
too.
But we won't go into that right here.
But it was what we were trying to do is we were trying to get the density and the potency
of the Chem 91.
Yeah, combined with the color and the crystal content and the nose of the skunk.
Yeah.
So we wanted potency and density from over here.
And we wanted a little bit better looks and frost and turps from over here.
Yeah.
And it worked pretty well.
It's killer.
You know, and honestly, it probably would have it probably would have taken off a bunch
more if the purple and then Kush and diesel craze hadn't started.
Where everyone wanted to grow the exact same strains to get the dollar.
Yeah, for sure.
You know, um, yes, the Super Dog would have been in dispose in 2001 in the bay 100%.
That would definitely be an era that there would definitely be an era where you could
have gotten a lot of Super Dog went to the bay.
A whole bunch, you know, and you know, you know, I've talked before about how we lost
it and some of the different things and been hunting for it for a long time.
It you know, it exists in a bunch of children.
And you know, skunk and chem seem to be a great combo.
Yeah.
I know that at least in 2011 or 12 that Maui Super Dog was still being grown up north.
That weird I don't know if you know Carnac the weirdo.
Oh, dude.
So there's there's Finos.
I have friends from Trinity County that grew for years and their boss his favorite strain
was a Maui Super Dog.
Yeah.
A Maui Super Dog hybrid.
Some of the Maui Super Dog Mandelbrot wrote about it a bunch.
But he found out of seeds that I gave him something he ended up calling the truth.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Which was Maui by Super Dog.
That just a straight Maui by Super Dog.
So I think Bitter is still holding that cut for you too, by the way.
And so there's there's a number there's a number of Finos of that that float around.
And there's some other stuff we won't get into right now because that's a whole nother
movie where it's in.
So it's it's it's blended into different things.
But it's one of those gigs where it's like weed reinvents itself every five or 10 years.
And people only like to grow what's easy and popular.
And it would probably knock people's socks off today.
But it came out at a time when it wasn't able to get as famous.
Yeah.
You know, because it was coming out in 2000 2001 2002 2003.
You know, it's just that was like a different era.
Yeah.
And people just didn't get like naturally hyped very easily.
Well, it just couldn't spread.
Yeah, people that couldn't communicate as much clones didn't spread as much.
There wasn't clone trading going on very much.
There wasn't clone mailing anything like that, you know, so.
So there's an aspect to that.
That someone's asking if you what did you all find out?
Did you find a line on anything that you thought was lost recently?
Not so that I thought was lost.
Yeah.
I mean, I there's, you know, we did get something that I consider to be the Trinity, or at least,
you know, extremely, extremely close to the right cut, you know.
And we that was lost for 15 or 18 years to us.
And I'm still not sure if it's the exact right thing.
But if it's even the people that seem to think it might be not think it's incredibly closely
related.
Yeah, like it on s1 or, you know, something like that.
But I think it's the real one.
And now what gets hard is that because old things are becoming popular again, everyone's
coming out of the woodwork with old things.
Yeah.
That goes back to the fucking question that dude had about a smear campaign.
I absolutely consider Diesel, chem skunk weed.
Yes.
Yes.
100%.
Yeah.
So the Trinity, Diesel and sour diesel and all that is is chem is chem skunk blend.
Okay.
And before we close it down, I want someone wants you to talk about Francine.
They kept they kept mentioning it.
Oh, Francine was an extremely tasty indica.
And obviously, that's the that's the cut that facilitated the trade for the super skunk.
And my buddy ended up we ended up letting it go.
Because like a lot of amazing Afghans, it had horrific rot issues.
Yeah.
And it could it could grow all these big, beautiful colas.
And then there'd be gray rot running up the center stem.
Yeah.
And a lot of people had fine had had issues with breeding a lot of early Afghans.
Because Afghans bred in rot.
Yeah.
Because they grew up in a dry, cold Afghan environment.
And then they get brought to like moderate sort of humid California at times.
And they just they just couldn't handle it.
Yeah.
So it was, it's one of those things where it's part of the lore, but it was intentionally
dropped for issues.
And it was dropped long before any of us thought that any of this weed that we were growing
would matter.
Yeah, I'm sure.
To you know.
So so yeah.
I mean, we've now been talking two hours and six minutes.
Yeah.
Well, it's probably we try to keep it two hours every Friday.
You know?
Yeah.
So maybe now it's a good time if Matt if you want to do any plugs or anything like that.
Oh, yeah.
So go to Google type in Breeders Syndicate Patreon if you want to go join us on their
Patreon.
Probably watching fights tomorrow.
And yeah, we're always on there shooting shit.
Ask us questions there.
Join in.
And we probably gonna have some contests coming up.
That'll be fun.
Check out Speakeasy.
They help us produce the podcast and the audio version.
So go check them out.
Show them support.
All my stuff's right at Zco.com.
We didn't get to Notso's manscaping.
So I'm kind of bummed about that.
Indeed.
Yeah, it's probably a two or three part show.
You know, at least it needs props and pictures, all kinds of stuff.
And just in general, in general, two or three parts.
So anyway, thank you all for your Friday night.
As always, as always, for me, give suggestions, give ideas, reach out to us, DM things you
want to hear about.
This is all about us chatting and interacting and stuff.
So but again, thanks for the Friday night.
Have a great day.
Night.
Want more Breeders Syndicate?
Be sure to check out our Patreon by going to Google and searching Breeders Syndicate
Patreon.
We have a secret Discord where we are available at most times and interact daily.
There are a lot of perks to be had there, so check it out.
Need seeds?
Check out RiotSeeds.com where you can get our seeds and our reversal spray for making
your own feminized seeds.
