Welcome to Breeder's Syndicate, where we explore the history of a clandestine scene
through the eyes of the folks who lived it.
I'm Matthew, owner of Riot Seeds.
I'll occasionally be joined by my co-host NotSoDog, breeder and grower from Mendocino.
Welcome to the underground.
Hey what's up everyone?
Welcome to Breeder's Syndicate.
I'm Matthew, this is my fellow host NotSoDog.
Good evening everyone.
We are here for another weekend of fun fact-filled journeys in strain history.
So tonight we were thinking about covering something that we don't normally talk about
a whole hell of a lot as far as like getting deep into the details of cookies.
Since it's a modern line, you know, like we try to spend our time on older lines for the
most part, a lot of the baselines, but cookies I feel has become somewhat of a baseline now
for better or for worse.
What do you think on that?
I agree with you.
Matt and I certainly picked, you know, starting his history a long time ago simply because
there was way less people to get pissed and complain about what we were talking about.
And you know, it's also one of those things that it's probably not well known by a lot
of people, you know, and there's a lot of disparate facts and little bits and pieces
that you gather up.
And so we've been slowly working our way towards more modern stuff.
And you know, cookies is obviously and like that whole family that it spawned is a big
part of cannabis these days.
And it's a lot more delicate because cookies is also like, you know, intending on being
a global brand and there's a lot of business and money behind it.
And it's not as simple of like a clandestine story as maybe some of the older stories are.
You know, but and all the people are still alive and around as well.
Yeah, yeah.
You know, so there's a lot of different angles we could attack it from.
And we'll we'll we'll pick some of them and go from there.
I was thinking like, let's start with a quick discussion on the culture in 2009, roughly
when cookies was starting to gain its foothold, you know, what kind of stuff was going on
in NorCal, the Bay Area when cookies was blowing up?
It was a little bit during the purple craze and all that.
Yeah.
Or was it like, no, I think it was later.
I think it was I think it was later.
I mean, like, let's put it this way for you.
What would you consider the start of like, I heard about this thin mint cut?
I didn't start hearing about it until 2010, right around then.
OK, so let's just let's just say, you know, obviously, like as with anything, there's
people that are in the know and then it spreads slowly and then eventually it becomes more
common knowledge and then it's like a famous thing.
Right.
Yeah.
So, you know, at that time, I still lived in the same area that I do now.
I still lived in Mendocino County.
So the Bay is only where all this kind of begins is like only a couple of two and a
half hours south of us for the most part.
And the two things are pretty tightly related in a lot of ways.
There was a lot of back and forth in the cannabis scenes between the Bay Area and Mendo and
Humboldt, especially.
Right.
And I would say, honestly, probably in the 2009, 2008, 2009, 2010 era, I would say that
era for the both the Bay and Mendocino County was, you know, was still significantly a gas
era.
Yeah.
I would say that the diesels and the headbands and the cushions especially were all in high
demand, getting good pricing.
Right.
And lots and lots of people were growing them.
And that was sort of like the the bread and butter, if you were.
OK.
It's kind of like I mean, it's it's obviously there's way more to it than that.
But in terms of like what was the the big dynamic back then?
You know, I mean, so 2008, 2009, you know, there was an enormous amount of cush being
grown in the hills by me that was all destined for clubs down by you.
Yeah.
Right.
And the LA, you know, SoCal area, there was a big oval in California.
And the Bay was sort of a meeting ground in the middle, you know, and stuff like that.
And so, you know, the Bay was sort of like the hustler area.
The Bay was where a lot of all the NorCal weed flowed into.
Yeah.
You know, and all that.
And so a lot of the people in the Bay were hustlers, even if they were, you know, there
was warehouses and stuff like that here or there.
But like places were expensive and it was the city and it wasn't as easy to be, you
know, the way you could be, say, in Humboldt or Mendo or somewhere a little bit more rural.
Yeah.
Certainly.
So who are some of the players in the early cookie scene?
Do we want to go over that at all?
Or?
Well, I mean, I think I mean, there's, you know, there's there's really well-known players.
Yeah, obviously.
And then there's a few people that aren't particularly as well-known.
Yeah.
And, you know, we could obviously step in a bunch of landmines on this one because all
these players are still active and around.
Yeah.
And I'm sure they have their own take on it and their own version of it, you know.
And so they'd probably also be quick to point out any kind of small discrepancies that might
pop up as well to try to discredit the whole thing or whatever.
So, you know, because cookies is not just it's not like talking about a lot of the other
strains in cannabis.
Cookies is like the one that formed a brand.
Yeah.
You know, it was like it was like the first modern cannabis brand in that regard.
And you know, and the cookie stores and fame and it happened like, you know, we could maybe
talk about like where cannabis was at when it popped up.
Yeah, that's what I was talking about, the culture.
So I mean, as far as as far as my neck of the woods in Northern California, it was the
green rush was massively on in my area.
2008, 2009, 2010 were booming times for indoor light depth, full outdoor of all kinds of
things all over my neck of the woods.
What's the indoor pound rate circa 2008, 2009?
I mean, like for high quality, the the prices people would have been seeing for quality
OG cushioned or like you could you I mean, you could get I could get forty two hundred
like in my neighborhood.
Yeah, exactly.
OK, for ends, you know, especially for especially for desirable things, you know, like, you
know, gassy strains, certainly certainly cush, you know, there was a lot of there was a lot
of game back then where people from Southern California, their entire career was like coming
up to my neck of the woods, buying things at that and going down to dispensaries in
the southern part of the state and, you know, giving them to them, those dispensaries for
three, four hundred dollar margin, five hundred dollar margin.
So that was big business then there was that was full depth years.
Depths were big then there was still droughts back then.
So, you know, depths commanded good pricing.
You did you did things well.
And it was one of those it was definitely a gas era.
I mean, not that there wasn't lots of things being grown, but there was an enormous demand
for both cush and diesels of various kinds.
Yeah. So all kinds of permutations of those got grown quite a bit because they because a
lot of the people coming up and then, you know, if if you wanted to leave your area,
the vast majority of people that would leave Sonoma County or Mendo or Humboldt or
wherever, if they wanted to go somewhere and hustle their stuff, they generally went to
the bay. Yeah.
Well, that was San Francisco or the East Bay in Oakland, somewhere right around there.
And the bay was sort of like a collection ground for everybody from SoCal coming up,
but they didn't want to go all the way up into the hills.
I mean, there was people from all over in the bay looking to get it was sort of a
clearinghouse for where a lot of the weed from my region ended up, at least
momentarily, even if it was just passing through on its way to somewhere else, like,
say, dispensaries in San Diego or, you know, or L.A.
or anywhere like that. Right.
And so it was was booming in the bay during those years, if I remember correctly, the
Oracle, the GDP, all of that, like a staple of that Bay Area.
Yeah, it was a staple.
And I mean, I would also say it was starting to get by then it was starting to get phased
out in favor of Cush.
And, you know, I mean, Cush was getting still pretty damn high prices in Southern
California down that back.
Yeah. So if you had access to cuts, you know, it moved easily and you got a good price
point, you know, and that was certainly the height of the gas diesel craze, too.
So there was a lot of that sloshing around.
Urkel and GDP and and Great Bape and Mendo P and all that stuff.
I think that was more like 2005, 2006, 2007.
And then like the wave of gas really started to come through.
So what do you think was the was the.
What do you think made what became cookies appealing in a time where yield was still
relatively important, maybe not the most important because he had taken dominance and it
wasn't like a power yielder for most people.
But what do you think drove the necessity for cookies all of a sudden that drive and
hype when there was already O.G.
Cush and there is already, like you say, a waning demand for GDP and Urkel?
Well, I think it was a number of factors, and I think one one thing you can say about
it is that Americans are pretty tribal, right?
But mostly we're not tribal like we're not tribal in the way that a lot of other
countries are tribal, like we're a weird mishmash of cultures.
So we get tribal around like sports teams and stuff like that.
Right. And one of the things that like I think pushed it was that I would say it's
probably fair to say in California that L.A.
and SoCal was considered like Cush land.
Yeah. Yeah.
Even if it was produced other places like the craze, the money, the rap, all that
different types of stuff.
L.A. got it. Got it. Right.
Yeah. And for the Bay Cookies was really something that like all of a sudden was
the Bays. You know, the Bay wasn't just like a clearing ground for the Emerald
Triangle. It wasn't just like a pass through.
It was something they could claim as their own.
Yeah, it was very much a Bay Bay set of cuts.
And so just like that, like you're going to have fans of it.
And we just like you have fans of like the San Francisco Giants or the Oakland A's or
the Raiders, you know, or anything like that.
Like that's our shit.
Right. This is unique to us.
And then on top of that, since it because since it sort of started there, the people
that were in the know and all the people that first got it were kind of from there.
Yeah. Right.
So humans like to feel like they're part of something special, right?
Yeah, for sure. Everybody likes to be.
Huh? FOMO.
Well, everybody likes to feel like they're on the in crowd on some on some aspect of
things, you know, and a lot of the history of a lot of the history of the of that that
became, you know, and it made people famous, too.
Right. Yeah. And so I do think that cookies came along at a really weird time in
cannabis in the sense that it was a sea change, in my opinion.
Right. Where probably before cookies, this isn't going to make cookie sound that good.
But before cookies, most weed was judged on its nose and effect.
Right. And looks wasn't that big of a deal.
Right. I mean, I can't tell you how many times I would have people come up to my neck
of the woods and they would open up a contractor bag of sour and they would stick
their head in it and look up and say, this will work.
Yeah. And it was before they even really like dug around.
I mean, they could still find something that they didn't like.
But for the most part, if the nose hit them like a hammer in the face.
Yeah. You were almost all the way there.
Yeah. Right. It's super important.
And cookies like, you know, is extremely photogenic.
And it came about kind of at the at the end of of a certain era where, you know,
I.G. started happening and these different social media platforms started happening.
Right. And it looked gorgeous.
Yeah. Right.
And you you can't you know, anything you're looking at on Instagram or anything else, you
can't smell it, you can't smoke it, you can't.
But you can see it. Yeah.
And cookies and a lot of its children are extremely photogenic.
They're beautiful. I know that was the first thing that truly caught my eye was, well,
I'd seen stuff similar.
I remember, you know, there was stuff that would come out of different combos and we'll
get into that later that I'd seen similar, but I'd never seen anything quite capture
all of several traits in one bud.
But I also saw the yield and thought there's no way this is going to catch on.
There's just no fucking way this is going to catch on, you know?
Yeah, I mean, and I think some of it, too, is, you know, they they got it to some hip
hop artists and they got it and they and they got it wrapped about.
And, you know, there's if you get it to if you get things to cultural trendsetters.
Right. Yeah. Then other people might want it.
Yeah. You know, and there was a lot.
There was a lot of well-developed clubs selling a lot of indoor in 2008, 2009, 2010,
all that that era. Right.
There was a bunch of Bay Area clubs.
And back then, if you had an active medical card that checked out, you could go make a
deal with a club.
Yep. You didn't have to have like today, you didn't have to have a bunch of permits
and a bunch of special rules and regulations.
You literally had a doctor's note and you set up an account and you were allowed to.
I mean, that was kind of the way to 15 worked.
Yeah. Right.
It was you were allowed to supply dispensaries.
Right. Yeah. And so there and you know, what people ended up calling top shelf ended up
being indoor. Yeah.
You know, not always. There was a lot of light debt back then that made top shelf and
stuff like that. But I think, you know, when you're buying something at a store, something
that looks really attractive is a big seller.
Yeah. And it was different.
Right, it was very different the way cookies looks, the way it's buds form, they're very
dense, they're very tight, they look really pretty, the way that it has a tendency to
color up really like accents the THC.
You can see the crystal.
It has a lot of visible crystal.
Yeah. You know, and it did kind of have like an off cookie dough type of sweet aroma.
And I think it's the first line that like modern marketing really mattered with.
Yeah. In a way.
Yeah. You were posting something up there for a minute, but I couldn't see what it was.
No, I was just getting it ready.
It's a it's the video where they first explain the genetics behind cookies and whatnot.
So whenever we're ready to get into that part, I'm going to toss that up so we can hear it
from some of the first videos ever posted by them, the cookie crew.
So maybe I'll throw in something like this a little bit, too, where I.
Matt and I did a Thanksgiving show on Sour because we figured if you're fighting on
Thanksgiving with family is pretty traditional.
So if we talk about something that gets people riled up, that'll work.
And cookies is also probably going to rile people up.
And there's a bunch of big players that are involved in cookies and they all have their versions and stories and whatnot.
And so, you know, take this as sort of like general tidbits rather than some like completely
chronological, you know, attempt to lay out the history.
Yeah. Right.
Because, you know, the history with cookies, like I said, it's not just about the weed anymore.
It's about different people's careers.
Yep. Now, yep.
You know, lots of careers were set up by different stories, lots of stories are conflicting.
I've heard all kinds of stories from beginning to end.
But what like I I've said in many of our shows before, I've learned a lot of times you can if you grow enough progeny, enough plants, enough seeds of a certain line, the plants will tell you exactly what they are.
If you have enough experience and know enough about the baselines, the plants will tell you exactly what they are.
And that's what I've always been more interested in when it comes to cookies, not the people behind it, not the players behind it, what it actually is and what we're seeing when it breeds.
You know, that's where I always run to.
So that's where that's where I'm mostly going to focus my portion of stuff is when I talk about like the breeding traits and how I see them breed and whatnot.
But we can cover some of that historical aspect.
Yeah. So do you want me just to fire up the video now or do you want to cover anything else in the beginning precursor?
No, I think the beginning part, I think like if we're talking about like setting the stage for what happened.
Yeah, we probably you know, it's probably it's there was a bunch of there was a 215 was probably it was probably the height of 215.
Yeah, the height, you know, is really when it came out a height of 215.
There was a lot of explosion of cannabis going on.
There was a lot of new growers coming into the scene.
There was a lot of younger people getting involved.
It had spread to the point and become chill enough to the point, even though you could totally get busted on a number of different levels, that all kinds of people were jumping into it that hadn't wanted to before.
Yeah, business was booming.
Dispensaries were booming.
Everything was booming.
And if I remember correctly, like the first cut I had heard of was Cherry Pie out of all that group.
I mean, they had, you know, F1 Derb and a few other things that were in their circle.
But the first one that I heard about before cookies or any of that was the Cherry Pie.
And that was that was what I was most familiar with online before the cookies kind of exploded.
And it had a similar look, but it was more OG looking to me than the the nudge structure of the cookies.
Was that something you guys saw up there?
Do you remember a certain date of it popping up or any of that?
Yeah, I mean, I, you know, I'm going to I'll dance around certain aspects of it just because of the of what we're at.
But I can say that there are some people that were intimately involved in cookies that I have gone way back with.
Right. And I knew, you know, years and years and years before this stuff came about.
So there was certain things that I saw before cookies became famous.
I mean, one of the one of the guys that's involved, for instance, he gave me the Flow Rider in, I want to say, 2004, spring 2004 or something like that.
And so that was the first actual like living in northern California.
I was a little bit behind the Kush wave in terms of like access to cuts that were specifically Kush.
But that was the first one that I used to that I used to I used to rock, you know.
And so that was that was four or five years before cookies even popped up.
Yeah. Right. And it just so happens because that same crew had that cut back.
That Kush cut is the is the Kush and cookie.
Yeah. Right.
That's the claim.
So that's so I just believe it just because of who it came from and who had access to it and all that different types of stuff.
I don't have any. There's a lot of stuff that with cookie that's a little mysterious.
That one, I think, is pretty standard.
Yeah. You know now what what could what cut exactly Flow Rider is, you know, is it is it a cut of OG masquerading under a different name?
Is it a different cut from Florida?
All that type of stuff that that's a debate, I suppose.
I got a question.
When you when you got it, did they call it Flow Rider?
Did they call it Florida OG?
Did they call it Flow Rider or did how did that happen?
What did that put on it?
To be perfectly honest, I, you know, I got it is I got it is OG Kush.
Yeah. OK.
And then, you know, I got interested in Kush and I'd heard a bunch of different things and I went back to him and I asked him.
So I hear there's a couple of different ones.
Which one is it? Right.
Yeah. Yeah. And, you know, he he said it was.
I mean, I probably mangle this pronunciation, but I never heard the word Florida OG.
Yeah. Right. Although it was a play on that.
I you know, it was it was a Flow Rider.
Yeah. Almost almost like how, you know, somebody with an accent would say Florida.
Yeah. I love your Southern accent, by the way.
That's good. It's terrible.
You know, but anyway, supposedly and I don't know if this is true or not.
Supposedly it was it was it was sent from Jacksonville, Florida, to the Bay.
Yeah. You know, and at the time I thought my buddy was like all generous for giving it to me.
But what I realized way later was that he was going to he was giving me the same price he was giving me for diesels and other things, you know, which was low fours.
And then he was taking it to L.A. and like making mad loot off it.
Yeah. So I didn't get it like on a some, you know, it.
But that that's the first one.
It's still one of the best OGs I know of, to be honest.
Yeah. The OG and cookies is a really nice cut.
So that was kind of my first that was kind of my first as far as things that were in cookie that I personally possessed.
Float that that that Cush cut is probably the first one.
Yeah. You know, and I think what happened is in a nutshell, we can bounce around and there's a lot of depth to all this.
But almost like the like the diesel story, I think there was there was multiple accidental pollinations.
Yeah. That, you know, this this hermed on to this.
We grew up seeds. This thing got named this week.
You know, we played around with it a year and a half later.
This herms on to this, you know, so on and so forth.
And then, you know.
Yeah, we have we have some pretty good video of.
Well, yeah. Pop it up.
They of them.
Well, certain ones come in certain sections, but basically of them making it very clear that it was probably herm accidents because they say they have no interest in breeding at all.
So but let's pop up the first one.
This is this is, I believe, Jigga and Burner and powers up Kenny.
Kenny Powers, they call him.
No, not the guy with the mullet.
Much different guy.
And they are discussing in a club, I believe the original video was called Big Burners, Bigger Business Episode one.
And yeah, this is them discussing it.
So let's pop it up here.
Break it down, Jigga, brother.
No. So what do they want to know?
I mean, first of all, I see some YouTube blogs.
They said cookies got cherry pie.
Is that true?
To clear that up?
No. I'm just saying there's a lot of shit to clear.
So let them break it down, baby.
We want to know.
I mean, let's let them know what cookies is.
First of all, there's a lot of like weed magazines and and like all kinds of crazy shit that are just putting false.
The relationship between cherry pie and cookies directly is like I would say more of a like a brother and a sister relationship.
They have the same parents.
One of the same parent, one of the half of the parent is the F1 Durbin crossed with a with a granddaddy would make the cherry pie F1 Durbin.
Cross with the OG to give you the cookie.
So that's where they get.
That's where they get that that that relationship right there.
So that's where, you know, there's no there's no cherry pie into it.
And it's different.
It's the Durbin. It's the F1 Durbin.
And that's what I get.
Yeah. Easy math.
All right, break it down, bro.
Break it down for easy math equation for everybody out there.
It's the F1 Durbin plus the Flo Rida Kush equals cookies.
Girl Scouts, baby.
And let them know what F1 Durbin is.
It's like a cross.
It's F1 and Durbin poison.
Yeah, it's not in your bag.
Not regular Durbin poison.
You don't have this.
In order to have real cookies, you would have to have what like to have real cookies like the real Girl Scout cookies, the ones that the football stick to a fucking hand.
Fucking crazy, tasty, thin mint.
That's why we call it cookies.
The thin mint taste.
You got to have F1 Durbin poison crossed together with the right OG.
That's a different kind of OG.
Break it down, bro.
Let them know.
What do they want to know?
First of all, I see some YouTube blogs.
They said cookies got cherry pie.
Is that true?
To clear that up?
No, I'm just saying there's a lot of shit to clear.
So let them break it down, baby.
Creeps.
What do they want to know?
I mean, let's let them know what cookies is.
There's a lot of like weed magazines and and like all kinds of crazy shit that are just putting false.
The relationship between cherry pie and cookies directly is like I would say more of a like a brother and a sister relationship.
So basically it was supposed to be the GDP and and and F1 Durbin making cherry pie.
What's your thoughts on that?
That is that is not what I know of.
And that might cause a bunch of.
So what I think happened.
Realistically, is.
I don't think they wanted anyone to know.
OK, because I don't think they wanted anyone to like try to recreate what they had.
And I think it's fair to say that no matter who they might be currently back then, the guys that that made it famous were more hustlers than they were growers and breeders.
Yeah. Right.
They were more people that that move things around that like they were deeply involved in the weed scene and stuff like that.
But, you know, they they were more middlemen than they were like someone like you or me.
Yeah. Who was producing it, you know, making seeds, you know, growing for market, all that different types of stuff.
They just weren't that way. And so I think they were concerned both that they didn't want to give anybody credit.
All credit with cookies starts with cookie fam.
Right. And like a lot of places, as we as we've talked about many before times on the show, you know, you you work off what you get first.
Right. You you get work for other people and you get bag seed or you get this or you get that and then it gets famous.
And then what happens? You want to make it seem like it all originated from you.
Yeah. Right. And I also think that maybe even back then, like, I don't even think they.
All had their story straight with one another.
I doubt that they really even knew what pollinated what I don't think those guys could truly identify a herm in a room.
What was herming on what?
And I think they did a lot of guesswork personally.
Like I think the brightest.
Well, I don't think necessarily speaking, it's not the brightest, but imagine I'll be fair.
And I'll just say that.
Imagine that like your your story starts with bag seed.
Yeah. Right.
And now you have now you have this famous thing and it's blowing up and, you know, like you're starting to breed and do some different stuff with it because you're trying to market it in a certain way.
But like all the steps that got you to where it begins, you didn't actually do.
Yeah. Right.
Like, I mean, for instance, it's pretty well known that Berner was a bud tender.
He didn't grow at all.
Yeah. Right.
He knew rappers and he had a small hip hop career that he was trying to work on and he was an outlet and he hyped stuff and he moved stuff.
Yeah. And he he made that into like, you know, he's a bit obviously he's the face of cookie now.
Right. Yeah.
But he's the. Yeah.
I mean, he's the one on Forbes, you know, the front cover, everything he's the face.
And, you know, and that wasn't I don't even think that was done intentionally.
Like it was it was almost like I think that as these there's like a lot of things, you know, there's there's a loose collection of people.
Right. And as fame comes and there's no contracts and there's no formal, you know, organization, everybody starts reaching for everything they can get.
Yeah. And there was winners and losers in that, at least so far.
There are some people that are super well-known and there's a few people that are we're probably like more responsible, at least for the beginning parts that aren't very well-known at all.
And that seems to me to be a common theme in the history of cookies, whether you're at the beginning or you're making your way down the road to, you know, the the lemonade era and all that.
It sounds like it's a repeating story that there are a lot of really, sometimes even really talented people doing some work behind the scenes that don't get the shine.
So, yeah, I mean, well, yeah, there was an there was an era and there was an era, too, where back then, especially it was all about who wanted to show their face.
Yeah. There was a couple of people that did not want to show their face.
And so as a result, like barely anybody knows who they are and people like Berner and, you know, and Jigga and stuff like that who were wanted to be famous and wanted to use this to make themselves famous.
Yeah. They became the face of it.
Right. And got a rep out of it.
And yeah, you know, and became CEO of Cookies or whatever.
And, you know, and he wasn't even involved in any of the growing of cookies or any of the breeding or anything like that.
He was the guy that got you decent tickets for it and, you know, and gave it to Wiz Khalifa and these different people that would hype it up.
And then these famous people had it and he helped put it on the map.
You know, and so when the people that actually own Cookies decided to, like, you know, form the brand, they got the face of it.
They didn't really care necessarily so much about, like, you know, who was the most involved or who, you know, they cared about.
They needed a spokesperson.
Yep. A lot of major corporations do that.
That's very common.
You know, and Berner was looking to be famous and, you know, was a good spokesperson.
Yeah. Right.
And I mean, there was I used to I used to joke that, like, there used to be a bunch of people in the Bay that thought that the cookies they were buying was like personally hand-watered by Berner.
Yeah. Yeah.
I heard that a lot. People would get in big arguments.
Would they be like, no, no, he's growing it.
Come on. Back in the day, it was real bad.
You know, and there was there was there was there was, you know, there was definitely crew in the cookie fam that was growing it.
Yeah. But that just wasn't his angle.
Yeah. You know, they're just that just wasn't his angle, you know, so and, you know, and so as a result of all this fame and stuff like that, there's a there's another
there's another aspect of it where all of them tried to make as much of it as they could is out of out of it as they could.
Yeah, of course. Right.
You know, I mean, it spawned it didn't just spawn cookie.
I mean, it spawned although that came later, it spawned Scherbinski's.
Yes. You know, and the Scherb brand and all that different types of stuff and gelato and all.
Yeah. And and and, you know, and, you know, so there's like a I mean, this could be like a multiple, multiple,
you know, episode show, I suppose, depending on what angle you want to take on it.
But I will say going back, I do think that part of the.
What's the best way to put it? Part of the confusion about cookie is that in the beginning, some of them honestly didn't know all the steps.
Yeah. And I and I do think that they also wanted to obscure a bit what they did know, because they didn't want anybody else to either get credit
or, you know, go out and grab those things and start making things, because as everyone's aware, right, you know, cookie seeds and cookie hybrids and OGKB and then Forum and Animal and all these different things that were coming out.
They all commanded top dollar.
Yeah. So there was a lot of money on the line and they were always terrified of their secret and their control of it getting out.
Yep, because again, it got famous and it got famous at this weird time where things were transitioning, but it was still that 215 gray area time where nobody owned it.
Yeah. Right.
It was very punk rock like nobody.
Nobody owned it.
Nobody. There was no contracts.
There was no documentation.
There was no there was a loose group of friends.
Yeah, that was only shortly to come.
Right. So there and there really wasn't a way.
I mean, there was even a thing where like they would I don't you know, they wouldn't even let they kept they kept Berner away from the gross.
Yeah. You know, and they gave him the clothing company, which ended up being a dumb thing because he made a shit ton of money off selling hundred and fifty dollar T-shirts.
Yeah. He was the the real winner in that one, you know, and and it also didn't have any risk because it wasn't weed.
It was just clothing.
Yeah. So I wanted to show a picture to the F1 derb real quick.
This is a picture. This is from the Instagram account F1 Durbin.
But this is exactly what it looks like, how it breeds.
It's very true to form on this.
A lot of people question whether it's a real cut or not.
It does exist.
It's existed for a long time.
When we grew it, it was heavy Merlot wine, but I'm not so good at smelling like aniseed and these turps.
And yeah, I mean, I think it's probably very easy to to have that in there.
I know some people smell Coca-Cola type turps, too, with that Merlot wine smell.
But yeah, this is it. I think it's not very well documented.
So I wanted to sneak it in here while we're still talking about the predecessors.
I think it I think it it ties into, like I said, the multiple accidental pollinations, you know, that occurred.
And so the farther back you go in the cookie story, the murkier it becomes.
There are certain things that that I think we know for sure.
There are certain things that are known that aren't very well known.
Right. There are certain things I might even dance around just because they're stored like, you know, as as any tale that involves a bunch of friends over a long period of time.
You know, there's parts that are pertinent and there's parts that, you know, could ruffle some feathers, I suppose.
But yeah. And there's stuff that you think and that I probably disagree with, you know, like in what's actually in specific ones and specific things.
Oh, I mean, it'll be interesting about, you know, we won't say what exactly.
But like, you know, there was this week between CSI, Matt and myself, there was debates going back and forth on on lineage of certain things.
Yeah. And people that have been skeptics maybe even coming around to certain theories or being more open to it because they smelled certain things or saw certain traits.
And they were like, whoa.
You know, and to me, like, I don't know why.
I don't why would you want to dance around?
I think we don't need to dance around it, particularly on this specific one, because I think it answers a lot of questions.
There's been a lot of. Is it OK if I just enter in a little bit?
I mean, you know, sure, we can, you know, go for it, I suppose.
Yeah. I mean, because we're already going to do the the F1 derb reversal at CSI's and we're going to answer a lot of questions with it, at least to get an idea of what happens when you cross a the F1 derb and that Florida or the Florida.
Or if you cross F1 derb and GDP looking at the F1 derb, I mean, growing it when I did, I didn't I didn't have a lot of insight into it.
I grew it, seeded it immediately, lost it pretty quick.
And I also didn't have the same experience that I did that I do now, looking back when I was growing it.
And one of the main question of cookies, I think that me, you and CSI talk about is where is all the black and purple coming from?
I mean, we know Urkel can kick purples and that's in my opinion, at least Urkel is the main main force behind cookies and the look, the shape, a lot of it.
But it's not really well known for consistently and and being a true breeding purple breeder.
There's a lot of green coming out of purple or purple Urkel and GDP much the same.
But there is a consistent, true breeding black trait in that line.
And and, you know, we had talked about Deep Chunk.
We had talked about maybe it is just Urkel.
Maybe it's like this recessive trait being brought up and it's been slammed into each other enough that it's just consistently breeding black now.
Or maybe Mendo Perps, you know.
And what we know about Mendo Perps is it's it's it expresses a lot of different smells in the S1s.
One of those is heavy anise, you know, and that's always very interesting.
And I think the fact that it breeds true to black in a lot of cases is another interesting point to that.
What's your thoughts on it?
I will admit that this is a little political or whatever, but I will admit that I did not believe for a long time some of the stuff Matt was saying in terms of not that I thought it was lying or anything like that.
I just I you know, I just didn't I just didn't quite see it quite as much.
And then, you know, different stuff starts coming to light in various aspects and, you know, things start bubbling up or whatever.
And and I I do tend to believe now that Mendo P is in there somewhere.
Yeah, I do.
You know, and it's simply because, you know, there's there's a lot of connections between like Mendo and our crew and those Bay Area cats in one way or another.
Like I said, I mean, I have a long running relationship back then with one of the guys that we did a lot of exchanging of.
We had a we had a cut called Anis that used to get pushed through the bay quite a bit.
And it would. Did you say the Anus?
The Anus?
Which was which was which was a strangely, which was a Mendo Purps Durban poison.
Yeah, interesting thing that we made that hurt.
Yeah.
And so, you know, you know, people should know that with anything like there's certain things that are that are speculation and there's certain things that I know for a fact.
Yeah. And so you want to always be clear about the two.
I, I tend to think that it's in there.
I tend to think not that it's and I don't think it got in there late.
I think it got in there early.
Yeah.
You know, it was an early contributor.
And I do know something that's not particularly well known that I guess I could spout or whatever.
I know what the mother plant that cookies came out of was.
What's that?
So the seeds that became thin mint, right, that I guess started the cookie craze or or what have you.
Right.
They were grown by my friend and they were rolling up a joint in the bay.
One of my oldest friends was actually in the room with with with these guys at the time and some seeds fell out of a cherry cush bud.
OK.
OK, and those seeds Jigga ended up making thin mint.
So I wonder, so cherry cush now this is different than the cherry pie, right?
Yes. So supposedly cherry cush is cherry pie, Herms onto the Flowrider.
Gotcha. Right.
And seeds from that they called cherry cush.
That makes sense. Cherry pie is known to do that.
Right. Cherry pie not only Herms, cherry pie throws actual male, full male pollen sacks like you would like live like not just bananas.
What actual it can pop full male flowers at times.
Right. Yes. It's a tricky one.
Yeah.
And, you know, so so I know what the mom is.
You know, yeah, I and as a result of that, I like I know what room it actually was.
It actually the room was grown in Willits, which is a little town in Mendocino County, about 20 minutes north of me.
Yeah. And it came out of a relatively small room and there was only three things in the room.
And two of them were were cherry pie and and that and that cush cut.
The other one was Elvis.
Oh, strange. I remember Elvis.
Yeah. The other one was Elvis.
There was only three things in there.
And so we know what the mom was.
So they were rocking Elvis and they didn't use that.
They used all the. Well, it's not that they used.
You're right. You're right. Yeah.
It happened on there.
I think to be honest, I think the first intentional cookie breeding like by them came when they started messing around with Sherbert, like when they started messing around, you know, in 2009, 2010, 2011, 12, like that era.
Yeah. Right.
I think before they didn't really know, you know, they didn't even have it.
Right. It was different people had it.
It was getting moved to different people.
It's not like certain people weren't smoking it or having it or whatever, but it was like I think thin mint was sort of the basis for them to like take off with it.
Yeah. If you will.
And and so, you know, I wish I could actually see comments while I was I'm talking, there are some people that are dropping some stuff that I want to that I would like to speak on.
But I have to toggle back and forth between Matt's beautiful face and you don't want to do that.
You don't want to miss seeing my face.
I know. So that's why it's so hard for me to read comments.
So I apologize. Sometimes I'll see him if Matt pops him up because he pins him or something.
Yeah, it's there's a lot of stuff about like always be flowering and flux and frost boss and all those guys, people just plug in names, trying to guess at who's who.
Mm hmm. I mean, all good names, all good names, I suppose.
I don't know if, you know, there's a there's a part of me that wonders how specific to get on certain things and what to stay like slightly mysterious on or whatever.
But there was a couple of names.
There was even a dude's name that started with a C in there that was definitely involved on a certain level.
But I know I'm I am ninety nine point nine percent sure that what became thin mint came out of cherry cherry kush.
So one thing I want to add here is when it came to the forums, when it came to Girl Scout cookies hitting the forums, a lot of people are used to hearing the term forum cut.
Now, when Girl Scout cookies hit the forums, then it wasn't something being passed around or bandied about.
The name really wasn't something popping up yet.
The first time we saw it was I believe it was always be flowering, passing it to someone either directly to lumpy lump status or or to someone to lump status.
And that was the first time a lot of people really got a good look, like a really good look at big blown up grows of cookies.
And they were some of the most beautiful.
And I do believe those are still up there on Icy Mag.
If anybody wants to go check them out, lump status has some beautiful pictures up there.
Yeah, the forum cut was the one that the cut that became called Forum Cut was the one that tended to circulate.
Then it didn't start circulating till much later.
Wanted to add that in there because a lot of people are asking about the forum and when it came.
Well, yeah, I mean, we me and a homie of mine on this show, I'll just call tuna.
A tuna and I actually grew some of the first cookie up in Mendocino because those guys were all stuck in like six and eight and ten lighters or whatever.
And they were trying to get they were trying to get.
Obviously, more of it at the time, you know, and they were so paranoid about anybody knowing what it was.
I think they made it. I think they made us call it.
I'd have to ask him gravity.
Oh, right, because because they didn't want anybody on our scene, any of our workers, they made sure that like we could never talk to anybody that was on our farm about like this was special or this was new.
They were terrified of it getting out.
Yeah. And so and they were pretty controlling on it for a long time.
So I'm not surprised that thin mint took a minute to get out.
I think what screwed cookie in that regard is that in cookie lines, there's hermaphrodism.
And bag seats get out.
And that's in a lot of ways, that's how cookie kind of spread at first.
They were not passing it out to friends.
They were not sharing it.
They were not.
They had a thing that made a lot of money and was hyping, and that was their ticket to ride.
And they didn't want to share.
Yeah.
You know, so I'm not surprised that I'm not surprised that the real thin mint sort of took some time to bubble out.
Right. Yeah.
Because one of the things that's kind of funny, one of the things that swore me off of cookies for a few years was we ran a couple of big greenies, a couple of big depths of it.
And it frickin it hermed and seeded, and then they were devastated because they didn't want seeded weed to get out.
Yeah.
Right.
So they didn't want us to sell it.
So you can imagine how fun it is to have a couple of greenhouses of weed that they don't want you to sell.
Yeah.
It was kind of it was kind of before, like the the modern hash era had sort of taken off again.
Right. So it wasn't like you could just like, oh, we'll just wash it.
Right. That we really wasn't it really wasn't that era yet.
Right. Where there was like a like a whole bunch of hash.
Like there was you know, there was water hash and there was some BHO and there was Keith and stuff.
But it wasn't like all the the modern gear that people are used to.
Yeah. It was like the secret cops blowing it up quite yet.
I don't think there wasn't even like, you know, bang like, you know, that was like the if you were smoking it back then, you were probably smoking a glowing cherry banger and dropping unpurged BHO into it or something like that.
You know, yeah, that's it.
It was it was the snap, crackle and pop era.
You know, there was it was it was going to be.
We're going to hell for the shit we made and sold as BHO early on.
I have ignorance, you know, ignorance is if people didn't know at the time.
Yeah, I don't think, you know, people and we know and they we didn't have a vacuum ovens and all that different types of stuff.
It was a coffee filter, water bottle.
We didn't shoot fucking.
I mean, the worst thing was, was was, you know, this is getting off tangent, but like PVC tubes was the standard with the screen.
And then you would you know, you would put a cap on it and you would drill a hole through the cap and then you would like pop, you know, cans of butane through and all that.
And yeah. And then and then all of a sudden people discovered that like after you do that for a while, the PVC isn't smooth anymore on the inside.
Yeah, no weird.
How that works.
So a little polyvinyl chloride or whatever into your mix.
But that's that I mean, that's way off topic.
But but I just mean in the sense that like I discovered pretty early on that Cookie did not like food, sunlight and was prone to hermaphrodism.
Yeah. You know, and I think all the early cuts that got out were a lot of them were bag seed.
I would think so, you know, and then they got and then, you know, we talk about form and then they got named.
I mean, we see this with diesel.
Like we've talked about this.
We've seen this with Chemdog.
We've seen it with a bunch of stuff where we're just bag seed, bag seed, bag seed proliferates on cuts that are kind of held tight in little crews.
Bag seed starts slowly proliferate proliferating.
You know, I remember when this was happening with cookies, the cookies crew kept referring to everything as fortune cookies like you're lucky you got that seed in that bag.
So it's fortune cookies.
That's not real cookies.
They're just fortune cookies.
That was the slander of all non cookie fam approved cuts.
Well, yeah, because it was one of those things where if it wasn't branded through them, it wasn't them.
Sure. And they certainly weren't going to admit that their stuff had gotten out either.
Yeah. You know, and so there's a bunch of rumors.
We don't need it's not like I'm some expert where I can tell you the origins of forum exactly or sure.
Oh, GKB and how it exactly popped up and through where and how.
I mean, there's a there's a lot of, you know, like a lot of these things.
There's a lot of circles involved, you know, small circles that can overlap at times, you know, and there was definitely circles and Mendo that had aspects going on with them.
And those, you know, and there was circles in the bay.
Yeah. And in some cases, some of those people own places in both places.
The bay and by my area.
Yeah. You know, and so as a result of that, you know, I don't think I don't know if most people ever heard of like what bud itself the thin mint was found in.
Because I don't think they wanted to give up what the mob was.
Yeah. You know, but I'm not like I said, I'm 99 percent sure that it came out of it came out of of cherry kush.
What's funny? Yeah, it makes sense.
And what's funny to me is like it's almost like that old Dutch way of thinking where Neville would put his the lineage out because he was a breeder and he knew it would be even if you know what the parents are, unless you had these exact clones.
You're still going to have a tough time making a line that represents the same exact line that I'm selling seeds of, you know, a lot of these other people, they didn't want to deep into breeding.
So they're thinking, if you know my recipe, you can make my my recipe.
You can make my food, you know.
And if you know what if you know what cut the mom was, you can get that cut and then you're halfway there, maybe.
Yeah, maybe.
And then you've got the mom.
Yep.
Yeah, and in all reality, even if you grab two of the same cuts and reverse them, if you're popping seeds, the likelihood you're going to run into that same exact expression in your environment is very low.
But that's so you know, that was years away from them figuring that shit out.
So, you know, I know what buddy came out of.
I know what strains were in the room.
Do I know if if it if that those seeds were from an S1 of that of that plant?
No.
Do I know if it was the the cush harmed onto that plant?
No.
You know, do I know if the Elvis was involved?
I don't think it was.
But no, you know, but I know it's those three.
And I know what what what bud it came out of.
Yeah.
You know, and I don't think and I don't even think amongst their initial crew, they spread it out very much like a jigger didn't even tell the person that came from for over a year that he had found it.
Yeah.
But that's how it goes, right?
That's how it goes.
Yeah, he didn't.
I think it took.
So there's always been there's always been intentional opaque, you know, intent, intentional, you know, fog, if you will, you know?
I mean, so looking at cookies from a just a purely and when I talk about cookies, I'm going to talk about not necessarily the thin mint, because I don't think most
people like I know it's out there.
People have it.
Yes.
You know, but most people experience the forum in general.
So when I want to talk about cookies, most people, when they think of cookies, think of the forum cut.
And when we look at that from a breeding aspect, what I tend to see in it is purple, oracle and OG Kush.
And the reason that I tend to see this is because out of doing myself, having made several different OG Kush and purple oracle hybrids and OG Kush GDP, having run a bunch.
And what I'd seen was this constant.
Right around the cookies expression showing up these small yielding, cushy looking purple things, you know, slightly gassy, sometimes more great.
Honestly, a lot of times when I'd see something a little more close to cookies, it would be more grapey.
But finding one that looked like that with gas was really, really unique.
But to me, for a long time, that's what I thought the recipe was.
That was it.
That's all you ever needed.
But I do think I do think Mendo perps comes into play heavily, you know?
Well, I mean, if I if I had to make like a like an educated guess, I suppose, of what maybe happened is,
you know, I think that, you know, it's almost like parallel lines that come back together.
Right. So you have a situation where maybe maybe you've got something like,
maybe you've got something like F1 Derb.
Yeah. Okay.
Whatever they say that is.
And that thing herms on to that thing herms on to Kush.
Yeah.
Right.
And that's a plant.
And then, you know, you've got F1 Derb and that herms on to GDP or something close to that, right?
Or Urkel.
And you've got cherry pie.
Right.
And then that thing herms on to that thing herms on to Kush again.
Right.
And now you've got cherry Kush.
Yeah.
And then something herms again and put seeds in cherry Kush.
And now you've got cherry and now you've got possible Thin Mint.
You know what else you have?
You got some phenotypes, homie.
Yeah. I mangle the English language. So I have a hard time specifically on nailing Jigga on that
one so bad. But, you know, but I think that I think that all those cats were determined to be
famous.
Yeah.
And they saw their movie and they took with it.
And then all these questions that come out and people want to be like, OK,
so have you been in your basement for the last 15 years making this?
Yeah.
And they certainly didn't want to be like, well, we stumbled upon it at the very end.
And we were getting different things from different friends and friends were growing
it and we were moving weed and this was happening and that was happening.
And then I got the seed seeded bud.
Yeah.
And so I'm we're cookie fam.
Yeah. Yeah. That's a that's a nice way to end that statement.
Right.
Boom. Here we go. You know, and so so I mean, I'm just even trying to be fair to them.
Like, sure.
Their mission was to like build, you know, they had an idea that they could build a brand and
they could get famous and they could, you know, sell a lot of weed, especially probably in the
beginning. It was, wow, if we control this, we can get crazy dollar at all these clubs on the
top shelf.
Yeah.
So let's produce as much of it as we can.
Right.
And get top dollar everywhere.
Yeah.
I think that's really how it started.
And then the branding aspect came along and I.G. and this came along and these different
things started happening and they started to realize that maybe there was maybe with the
way things were heading and legalization and all that, like maybe they could become famous.
Yeah.
Maybe they could become rich off it.
You know, and, you know, so obviously like Berner and Jigga are well known.
Sherb is pretty well known, you know, but there's a couple other people that aren't very
well known that probably had more to do with it than anything, at least in the beginning.
Yeah.
Right.
But they didn't want their faces to be shown.
Maybe because they were Bay Area hustlers at the time.
Yeah.
And they didn't want they didn't, you know, and, you know, I've said this before.
On the cast, too, it's like it's a very different skill set from the 90s through the 2000s
of staying under underground and staying with your face not visible and staying safe and then
flipping into I'm going to create a cult of personality.
I'm going to be famous.
Everyone's going to know my face associated with weed.
Yeah.
That was a big transition.
And it turns out that the people that wanted to stay
secret aren't very well known.
And the people that wanted to stick their face over everything and talk and be at all the events
are household names in the weed community.
Yeah.
However, you want to say that, you know.
But I mean, that's how it goes in any business, not just weed.
It's any like the front man's always going to be the one that that gets the shine.
It just is what it is.
I mean, you know, it's but it's different in weed because I think, you know, there's a part of it
where there was risk involved.
Yeah.
And, you know, when I and when I say hustler, it's like that, you know,
there was a lot of gray area then.
Yeah.
So, you know, people were intently not trying to get in trouble.
Yeah.
You know, and so some people took that route and some people took the fame route.
And, you know, I think when they started, you know, they started trying to breed with it,
like basically based off the fact that they had this one cut and now they were famous.
Yeah.
And some people took the route where they tell on the black market people at local
business meetings.
So we haven't gotten to gelato or sunset sherbet yet.
Do you want to touch on those?
We can touch on the sherb, I suppose.
Well, I mean, I think.
Yeah, we'll start with sherb.
Let's start with sherb.
I mean, that happened first, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Anyway.
So sherb supposedly by the I didn't get to ask Sherbinsky himself what sherb, what sunset
sherbet is.
He said it was made in his garage during sunsets, I believe.
No, it was it was made the district in San Francisco that he lived in is called the sunset
district.
Oh, maybe that's what he meant by sunset.
Yeah, because that was my bad.
It's called if you live there and you're from the Bay, you tell people I live in the sunset.
OK, that makes more sense.
It's just it's like a neighborhood, you know, that like I why?
Yeah, that's that's exactly why.
So it's it's named after the neighborhood.
So I've seen a few different things.
I've seen Burmese Kush cross to the flow right at OG.
I seen pink panties crossed.
Oh, I'm sorry, it was pink panties cross the floor at OG.
But I've seen different things for pink panties on what exactly pink panties is, whether it's
really Burmese Kush cross to flow right at OG or it's a Burmese Kush cross to something else.
I don't I don't remember.
Have you run that one yet or not?
The the pink panties?
Yeah.
Burmese Kush.
What do you which one you're talking about?
Yeah, yeah.
The pink panties, which is supposed to be a Burmese Kush cross of some sort.
I it's it's it's in the stock, but it has not made its way into the bloom.
Yeah, it's it's not.
I remember when I first got it, I was really stoked just to kind of get a good idea of
what it looked like.
And it reminded me a lot of a a lower resin Blackberry Kush.
Oh, yeah, it's not that that does not sound.
It had better turps.
It had better turps than Blackberry Kush.
It's not like a total knock on it.
I see why someone would have used it for the turps, but it wasn't super resinous.
Didn't have great bud structure.
It wasn't super dense.
It was pretty.
It was purple and it had a great pink stock like pink stripes stock with purple stripes
down.
It was really pretty that way and veg.
But I believe that's what's supposed to be half of Sunset Sherb.
If I'm correct.
And the other half.
I don't remember.
Does anybody else remember?
Do you remember?
Yeah, I mean, I think, you know, I mean, I think they've acknowledged that it's like
I think it's they say it's that cross to Thin Mint.
That's right.
That's right.
Thin Mint and Pink Candies.
Yeah, because it's all because it's like they cookies never, never really varied very far
from the from the the root.
You know, they they didn't.
I mean, that's part of the issue, too, is it's not really they have like a family or
a line.
They had they started with a couple of cuts.
Yeah, you know, I mean, like even like Gelato, right?
Gelato is is, you know, Sherbert back to Thin Mint.
Yes.
Right.
I believe so.
He said made way reversing Sherbert hitting the GSC.
And he said that originally they were trying to reverse Thin Mint onto Sherb, but that
failed.
So Sherb onto Thin Mint worked.
So they said they tried it two different ways.
Did he say if he did he say he reversed Sherbert or did he say he had a Sherbert?
Yes.
He said reversed Sherbert.
Yes.
Reversed Sherbert.
Intentional reversal of Sherbert in some in, you know, like in a typical L.A.
garage, blown it up type thing like I've always done.
I was done.
Like I said, it was it was I mean, I believe them in the sense in the sense that
Sherbinski had a six slider in the in the in the Sunset District.
Right.
And Jigga and various people, they were they were looking for places to do breeding.
OK, they were looking for places to like, OK, so they have this cookies thing, right?
There's a bunch of demand.
They're getting a bunch of loot from selling it all over to these dispensaries and everything
else.
And they wanted to take it in different places and start creating seeds because seeds are
starting to be booming business.
Right.
Yeah.
And so they worked out a deal.
I don't exactly know what it was where they brought in Sherb and they brought all the
cuts over there and they start and they used his his garage for a few times.
Yeah.
And because it happened at his house, all of a sudden he's Sherbinski.
You know, I will say he was the he was the one person out of everyone because I hit up
everyone for this show to see if they wanted to leave any comments or if they'd respond
about different genetics.
He was the only one that was nice enough to respond and and I'm not just saying, no, no,
I just wanted to say for everyone watching, he was the only one out of those dudes.
It was nice enough to respond.
So take that for what it is.
I appreciated that part, you know, but I do.
I, you know, I think he had I mean, I think even on like his Instagram stories or whatever,
he's like gone to the the Sunset District and like pointed out the house that it started.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
That, you know, type of thing.
He you know, he had a six, he had a six, maybe a six or an eight lighter or something like
that in the sunset.
Yeah.
And, you know, and he was buddies with those guys.
And so they, you know, they started doing some breeding work over there.
Yeah.
Right.
So obviously they have a collab or a partnership going or whatever else.
And out of that collab and partnership eventually came Sherbert, which they named Sunset Sherbert
because of the region of San Francisco it came out of.
So it has another Bay tie in.
Right.
I always wondered that now it makes way more sense with the sunset.
Yeah, because you're not from here.
You're not you're from down in California desert hell.
Yeah.
But yeah, yeah, the sunset is the sunset is a beautiful district, beautiful neighborhood
in the in San Francisco.
And it was I don't want to say it was affordable then.
But it was one of the it was one of the neighborhoods that you could actually kind of like
live in and get away with something like that for a bit.
Yeah.
Like there's some really wealthy neighborhoods in SF.
And there's some really crappy ones.
That one was like a decent one, you know, and it borders the you know, it goes all the
way to the ocean and stuff like that.
And so it's a cool spot.
And they you know, there's so yeah, again, I think much like the second wave in Amsterdam,
like like serious seeds and Luke from Paradise and those guys, you know, where like even
25, 30 years later, they still don't want to give you lineage hints.
You know, yeah, I don't think Stravinsky or Jigga or any of those guys really wants to
give out exactly what the secret sauce is.
Okay, because I don't think it benefits them.
Like they're not like they don't take that aspect.
They take the much more modern aspect of hide how you did it to some degree.
Right, because they don't want anyone out there making reproductions.
Yeah, or trying to find the plants that they used.
And so, you know, and as a result of that, obviously, like the rename game is strong.
Which is pervasive throughout cannabis.
So that thing that you I never saw Burmese kush.
Yeah.
You know, not that that doesn't mean it doesn't exist or anything like that.
But it was an Adam Dunn thing that was real popular for a while.
As anyone, as any of your friends, you've seen it?
Yeah, Buku.
Yeah, it's popular.
Buku.
Yeah, it's popular.
Yeah, it was popular during that time, especially in Colorado and stuff like that.
But yeah, it was one of the early OG kush process that people could get like MK Ultra
and Burmese kush.
So that's why people were running it.
I think that's why people were running it back then.
Yeah, because it was one of the few you could get that supposedly had OG kush in it.
OG kush in it.
Yeah.
I mean, as far as I know, I could be wrong.
I do think that the primary kush and all these cookie things is that OG is that flow cut,
because that's the one that they had.
That was their house cut.
And they had it years before the whole cookie thing even started.
It was kind of like their thing.
You know, it's really nice.
Yeah.
And I've heard, you know, I don't know if I want to even speak, you know, maybe
it would be best if it came from Shur probably.
I've definitely heard some different things over the years as to like what could have
been involved in Sherbert.
I've even heard that Sherbert in the beginning was a regular line.
Interesting.
Yeah.
We need to have more.
That there was male Sherberts.
Male Sherbs, huh?
There was maybe some male Sherbs at first.
And I do think, so if you reverse some things, maybe they picked like an exceptional female.
Yeah.
And chose to take that one to back to the thin mint again.
Yeah.
You know, when they wanted to make gelato or whatever.
But I think he's probably more famous for gelato now than he is for.
Sure.
Yeah, I would think.
Even though his name is Sherbinsky.
I think the gelato is kind of like we're a wave.
And, you know, there was probably half a dozen Finos from, you know, that they made popular.
Yeah.
From kind of like one batch of seed.
Yeah.
Forty five, forty one, forty two, thirty three.
You know, I think.
Oh, here we go.
I think when you plant seeds, you number seed one through three hundred or one through twenty.
You hear it one through eighty.
Well, we did about I think only like.
Gratian didn't work.
No, it worked well.
Did it?
Yeah, I was hearing it.
I couldn't hear it this time.
Oh, my God.
I was fifteen seeds on this Fino hunt and the number twenty was just popping.
When you plant seeds.
At the end, the twenty was just popping.
Yeah.
I'm not sure if that I think that was related to like Blanco or something later on.
But yeah, that's always a good quote to bring.
Yeah.
I mean, you know, I don't I don't think, you know, I don't think burner is ever grown.
Yeah, I doubt it.
I remember some of the early days of the cookie collective when they started popping those up
and people would take pictures of like the plants in the windows that they put like display clones
in the windows and they just be covered in PM.
And it's like, dude, if this dude was a grower, he should be able to spot that.
I mean, I get his bud tenders weren't, you know, but.
Dude, if you're been, you know, I don't mean this to be like a
diss at all on burner specifically.
I just I mean, I just mean in the sense that well, because I'm not going to
diss somebody that doesn't grow.
Yeah.
You know, I do that pretends.
Yeah, sure.
But, you know, I don't think I don't even know.
You know, I think I think burner is out there to be a hype man.
Burner is out there to promote a brand and he's done a really he's he certainly is,
you know, promoted it well.
Yes, he has.
It's well known.
He is good at that.
There's not too many corners of the weed world that don't know about cookies.
Yeah.
I mean, what they know about cookies might vary.
That's right.
Right.
Yeah.
But but the fact but, you know, they and, you know, and right now they're trying to be like
a multi-state organization or whatever.
And and they're trying to be a clothing brand and a weed store brand.
And I think like the cookies brand is as far moved beyond what our interest is.
Oh, yeah.
Which is the I don't think, you know, they're, you know, our interest is mostly on this show
is obviously genetics, plant makeup, how plants breed, how plants smoke, all that type of
stuff.
I will say personally, we're we're halfway through the show or whatever, but I am not
that big a fan of cookie and and cookie genetics.
Yeah.
To be honest, I mean, we've been talking about it for a while or whatever.
But if I had a jar of a bunch of famous things, you know, cookies is not what I would be reaching
for very often.
No.
Yeah.
If I had a jar of 15 things, cookies would not be in the top 15 of things I've smoked.
Nothing cookies.
There's been cool, unique stuff I've been able to do with it that I kind of like, like
the the the cookie Berry Diesel that ended up being the blue cookies cut.
I loved that one.
But it's few and far between where I'm like, wow, this is good enough to really say it's
super, super unique and worth carrying on when it comes to cookie stuff.
All right.
Yeah, I mean, I and that's just like, that's just my personal opinion, really like it's
not like but I just find that like, I really like weed that burns well.
A lot of cookies is like to to me, it's too dense to like burn that great.
And I think that in the looks, I think that cookies suffered from people making mistakes,
not knowing what they were doing early on.
And I think they lost the high.
Yeah, I mean, one of the reasons I think OGKB became so famous, even though it's like a
mutant grows like an inch a month, you know, it's a huge pain in the ass, but it actually
worked.
Yeah, it was one of the few cookies lines.
As far as like cookies goes, I think the ones that actually get you stoned or maybe like
OGKB and real animal cookies.
Yeah, yeah, that's what I know.
But I think the real animal cookies gets its buzz from the kush.
Yeah, it's mostly OG Kush anyways.
It's mostly it's like mostly OG Kush with like some, you know, some other elements to
it or whatever.
And but I think a lot to me, a lot of cookie plants and a lot of cookie hybrids and a lot
of sherbet and all that, the high isn't particularly unique or potent and it doesn't last
that long.
I don't know.
I don't know what I got something for you.
How sure I want you to create a line.
I want you to create a line that's truly unique in your mind, but you have to use cookies.
You want to make the ultimate special, unique cookies line.
You have anything at your disposal in the clone world.
What are you going to choose?
Well, if you're trying to make something unique off cookies, when I look at plants,
I look at there's very few plants to me that have it all.
Yeah, right.
That in that regard, and what I mean by that in terms of like, you know, every good trait
you can think of from structure to bud size to resin content, to buzz, to flavor, to doesn't
mold, it doesn't harm.
There's all these classifications, right?
Yeah.
And so when you're breeding, you're kind of like, well, I'm going to look at what do I
like about this plant and what is it missing?
Yeah.
Right.
And so maybe so with cookies, I'd look at cookies and I'd be like, well, it grows like
shit.
It doesn't like food or sunlight and it doesn't get me that high.
Right.
But it has a bunch of cool smells.
It certainly has a bunch of cool hues of purple and different types of stuff that can pop
out in it.
Its bud structure is pretty nice.
So I would try to breed it with something that would give it from a production standpoint,
this wouldn't be very necessary as far as a smoker goes, but from a like a grower's
perspective, you would probably want to breed it with something that would give it some
stretch and some vigor.
Yeah.
Right.
Where it could handle a little bit more food and handle a little bit more light.
But from a consumption perspective, I would be looking to cross it with the most potent
thing I could think of that wouldn't fuck up its overall structure.
Right.
Where are you going?
See where you're going.
Well, in the sense of like, I wouldn't necessarily like cross it like with a Neville's
Hayes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You know, although I suppose that could work, but like it, it would it would probably mess
up the qualities that cookie has.
Right.
So I'd be looking for something that like packed a rare punch, like like the if you
wanted to stay cushy, you could do that 56 day headband.
You could throw it on some you could throw it on some chem D, which is, you know, which
is which is pretty and super potent.
But I would be looking to inject potency in it.
Can be like the GMO.
That's a good, good direction that we've seen.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
Chem D. I mean, that's that's obviously chem D by cookie, right?
I mean, yeah, we at least a chem D expression by cookies.
I don't know if they had chem D in Spain.
Whatever the case may be.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It you know, that's that's kind of what you're looking for, right?
You're looking to add some potency to it.
Yeah.
Right.
And obviously, like if that is the case and they did use chem D or a derivative of it,
GMO got pretty famous.
Yeah, it did.
I mean, it even got famous in the sense it did something that I think is super rare,
which is it got famous as a cut that takes 12 weeks.
Yeah, it did.
Yeah, and it is rare.
And in my opinion, anything in the 12 to 16 week range is really, really hard to get famous
because it's longer running than most people want to go.
Yeah.
You know, and I think people were willing to run GMO for that long because it dumped
the it yielded like crazy.
And especially when it came to hash yields and washing and stuff like that, it dumped really high.
Yeah.
So it made those extra three or four weeks really valuable.
But I would be looking to add potency to cookie personally.
And then as a secondary measure, I would try to make it not grow like shit.
That's a good measure.
I mean, you know, growing in Mendo, you know, it kind of hates the sun.
Yeah, I wish I swear to God in the gorilla days.
I wish I had cookie that cookie would have done amazing in like manzanita patches.
And on the edge of forests.
Yeah, yeah, I could see it would have really done good because it's dense.
It doesn't it does well in low light conditions.
You know, I knew people early on in cookie days that would grow one strain
directly underneath the light and cookie all the way around it on the edges.
Oh, wow.
And they would get really big yields per light off that way.
Interesting because they'd get a decent yield off like the bright parts.
And then the other aspects that were a little like shaded or like
whatever that were down the outskirts, the cookie yielded just fine.
If people are taking shots with aspect today, they're going to die.
So I was thinking because I remember seeing Tom Hill's Hayes cross to the deep junk that he did
and it actually ended up looking like cookies.
So that Hayes of his cross to cookies might actually be really interesting and keep a
lot of the beautiful form that cookies has.
While I don't know, only he would really know after after doing a bunch of crosses with it,
if you could keep some of the high from that Hayes in there.
I mean, I'm a huge Hayes head.
Don't get me wrong.
The reason why I eliminated it is because it adds this jungle element.
Does and you could probably find something that you really liked,
but you'd better be willing to look.
Yeah, that's the thing with Hayes, right?
You have to dig, you have to look.
And so that's a more complicated subject in terms of, but yeah, in terms of, in terms of Hayes,
you're looking for things that make the bud nicer, make it shorter, make it take not as long.
But still keep some of those buzz elements that you're after.
The only other thing I would probably go after would be Appalachia,
just because I still think that's probably one of the fastest,
best lines out there right now for hybridizing.
I think that would be, I don't know if it would necessarily go super unique necessarily, though.
That is so funny, dude, there is this thing I've been looking in the comments and I was like,
I should hit up this guy, Jay Cash and ask him to message me.
And it's fucking Tom.
You didn't know that the whole time?
No, yeah, I didn't know that the whole time.
But that's pretty funny.
Yeah.
But yeah, no, I mean, I think Hayes by Cookie would be super cool.
Someone just said Deep Chunk by Cookie, didn't I do that?
I think I did that.
I think I did that and it was just a molded, like just a horrible mold machine.
Yeah, I mean, whether it's from something like Chem D or a headband or
a Hayes, depending on what kind of buzz you're after, you know,
I wouldn't do Kush specifically, I would go Chem's just because there's so much Kush already.
It would just inbreed.
And that has been bred into it or whatever.
I think you'd be better off going for a different potent indica family, you know,
because inbreeding is hard and that's kind of what screwed Cookie a bit is inbreeding.
Yeah.
You know, and not going far enough outside.
And certainly Hayes would add a wild new bunch of genetics that they've never messed with.
Yeah.
But you really what you're searching for is that invisible high.
I forgot that that Phil Tiarojo did some of those crosses.
He did like a Bubba Hayes.
I think he did a Cookies Hayes.
He did an OG Hayes, a few different ones that were really cool.
Someone just mentioned that in the comments.
Yeah, I mean, so I think I don't I would I would cross it to some kind of Chem
and see where it went, you know, and I did like the Chem 91 animal cookies that I ran.
That was pretty exceptional.
It was it reminded me of a Chem 91 without the shitty trait of eating itself.
But it looked just like Chem 91, but a lot more.
Yeah, I think our, our, our whole family is a Chem 91.
Our homie CSI is certainly with the forum cut and stuff like that is done,
has certainly made some of those hybrids.
And he's been pretty excited about some of them.
Chem 91 mixed with cookie is hilarious because it's got all the buzz you could ever want.
And it's one of the uglier things out there.
So you're mixing it with something that's like really pretty and doesn't have the buzz.
So you're sort of definitely hoping for the looks from the cookie and the wallop from the Chem 91.
But it's probably in there.
Yeah, the only reason why I suggested chems or something like that is just to keep the whole
thing the structure manageable.
Yeah, definitely.
Keep it super Afghani like manageable, manageable, trying to get to the manageable.
There we go.
I get distracted by comments.
Yes, you do.
It's okay.
That's why we keep you awake in them.
But I look but I mean, it's I, you know, I don't know.
We'll see.
I mean, we, we might have, you know, that'll probably be a different episode or something
like that.
But amongst the crew, you know, we have some some of the interesting pieces of this, you know?
Yeah.
I thought this was an interesting one to just also along the lines of like the Appalachia
cookies would be like a C 99 cookies.
And I don't remember.
I'm sure someone's made that but I off the top of my head.
I can't remember who would have made that.
And that that I mean, I don't think it would give you anything super unique with C 99 cookies
is like, you know, but it is Appalachia.
I remember you like a much better structure.
Oh, yeah, Appalachia kill it because you got the candy in it.
So we already know what can be in cookies do.
And with green crack.
Yeah, I mean, that actually might be a good one because you'd have you'd have structure
and potency if you could find the right mix.
Exactly, exactly.
And really good yields.
It could definitely increase the yields.
I take down.
I love Hayes.
Sorry, Mr. Soul, but C 99 is not on my bucket list of of Hayes is to keep.
I get why people like it 99 with Hayes myself, but it is.
I get it, but I don't.
I just read away from all the good parts of it.
Yeah, it's he went for chunky and quick.
I get so much skunk one high from C 99 that I just don't like it.
I associate it with skunk one much more than Hayes because of that.
I get why people would.
I think he bred for looks.
Quickness and weight.
Who who sold there?
I mean, I'm sorry.
It would be sly.
Yeah, maybe.
I mean, I think they I think they had a few seeds and popped them and gave out the cuts.
I don't think they bred for shit.
I think you don't believe any you don't believe any of the cubing bullshit or anything like
that.
I mean, if if they're if their goal was to cube to make a line and then I mean, I hate
even using the term because it's so wrong, but yeah, yeah.
But I mean, if their goal was to make a seed line that's uniform, then they epically failed.
They epically failed to C 99 is just shit loads of phenos.
So yeah, I mean.
I don't know.
I mean, like I have more faith that Sly could have done good breeding work as opposed to
soul who was learning to breed in color to grow and get grow tents in Colorado in late
2010, 11.
So, yeah.
I don't know that that's just my personal opinion.
I had a lot of insight into seeing that.
And I was one of those people who absolutely believed word for word that soul knew a shit
until I met him.
And then I realized, oh, my God, where's Sly?
Who's this guy?
How'd he fucking get pushed out of the equation?
That's just my thing.
I mean, that's a different subject too, but it is true that in the forums, there was a
number of people that got pretty famous.
And it was sort of the first time that we'd people could get a little famous in that way.
Yeah.
Right.
And you knew what you knew about them through what their persona.
You'd most of these people didn't you didn't know them in real life.
Yeah.
So, you know, names like Vic High or Tom Hill or, or, you know, Sly or, you know, DJ Short
or whatever, you know, these people are like producing seeds and making offerings and people
are growing their stuff out.
And some of them got super famous, right?
But you don't know them in real life.
Yeah.
I mean, I didn't even know Tom Hill was my dad.
I found that out later in life.
It's super weird.
Well, you know, it's people.
Papa was a Rolling Stone.
Yeah.
Papa was a Rolling Stone.
Papa was a Rolling Stone.
But yeah, you know, and so it's like on forums, especially IGs the same way.
It's like, you only know what I mean, you only know what people present themselves as.
Yeah, for sure.
I mean, when you start to do a show like we do, people get, you know, dozens of hours
of you chatting.
So maybe they can form a slightly like more nuanced opinion.
Yeah.
But, you know, posts, forum posts and IG posts and all that, that can be heavily curated
around an image or around a, you know, a phantom even, you know.
Yep.
There's lots of things that you don't see.
Yeah, unfortunately, I think a lot of people make very, I mean, I guess that's even what
I did is I was getting on the forums.
I made very, I made a lot of assumptions about people based on how I saw them interacting
and what they were presenting.
And, and luckily, you know, during the time when I, when I was first starting, there weren't
a lot of seed makers.
So I got to meet a lot of them in person.
And that's when I realized how much was smoke and mirrors.
And even when I talk to people about me and stuff in my life and what I present, everything
is what I want to show.
Nobody wants to show you the dude, you know, having trouble taking a shit because he didn't
need enough fiber.
You know, nobody wants to see that part.
It's all curated to a degree.
I don't want to see that either.
I actually FaceTime not so well.
I'm doing like, oh my God.
But yeah, I mean, it's true.
It's, you know, there are some people that will stun you with the level of knowledge
that they have about the plant and about breeding when you meet them.
And there are people that will stun you into, oh my God.
Right.
This is like the Forrest Gump of weed.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I know you're nicknamed.
This person just, yeah, just stumbled around and bumped into a bunch of cool shit along
the way, but he was totally, you know, he was completely oblivious and half aware the
whole time, you know?
Yeah.
That's me, you know, just stumbling, stumbling blindly around into one
thing or another.
And see, I kind of felt like that's how I did though.
Like, I don't feel like I had any right to be in the crew that I was with in San Diego
or have access to the cuts that I did early on.
Looking back, I'm like, you know, a lot of people spend years, you know, trying to hunt
down pure push and stuff.
And that was just there, you know, or Hogsbreath.
That was just there.
I think that's what a lot of this is.
It's just knocking around, stumbling around and hoping you don't constantly run into someone
who's going to screw you.
That's what cannabis is to me.
Yeah.
I mean, and to be fair to everyone, I will say that while Matt and I have, you know,
we, there's plenty of stories over and over and over again about how bag seed rules the
game and how people accidents happen and become very famous.
I'm having a hard time thinking of someone who just simply said, oh my God, I got hella
lucky.
Yeah.
I partied all weekend.
My room hermed.
I got a few seeds.
I popped them.
Holy shit.
It was there.
Got super famous.
I didn't even breed before that.
I was pissed off when it, when it, when it got seeded, cause I was worried that it was
going to affect my price point.
And it's the most famous thing I've ever done in my life.
And it was a total accident.
And, uh, you know, one person I can think of, but he changed the story later on to be
a much like capulator.
I will say capulator.
He came out first and I'm not even a fucking breeder.
I don't know what the fuck I'm doing.
This thing's good.
You know, with the Mac and, uh, after that, the story changed, you know, as far as I went
rage for three days and my light timer went off the wrong way.
And I, I came back and passed out from the concert and took me two days to check on my
room.
And then, you know, and, and, and I'm so all the accidents that have happened or whatever,
uh, you know, basically it's like, after you get famous, people start trying to add intention
and care and that they were some reclusive garage green genius, carefully mixing these
things together until they finally got a product to show the world.
Yeah.
Right.
And that's not typically how it works.
Typically when you do that, you fail.
Um, and, uh, you, you know, and, and it was a bunch of work for nothing.
Yeah.
Not that you might not make good work.
Uh, that's not what I'm saying, but, um, getting famous is weird.
I mean, getting famous and, you know, having a screen takeoff is, uh, it's not something
that you really totally control.
No, I, I, I rarely, I mean, I don't think people really capture lightning in a bottle
twice unless they're already rich.
You know, if you're already rich and you can put on a good marketing campaign, you can
push yourself to a good spot.
We've seen that with rare bigness and several other companies as they started brand new
company, big ads in high times.
Bam.
They're at the top, you know?
Um, but yeah, I mean, it, it is really hard to, to push hype on a cannabis community.
Pre Instagram.
It was, I mean, even if you push hype, unless it's something that catches the public's flavor
and I anyway, yeah.
I, you know, that's why we see so many strains that get hyped and for six months or a year
or 16 months or something, they catch a good ticket.
And then the community's like, eh, yep.
I don't know about that one.
And it's like, how many of, how many of the things in the last three or four years that
have been hyped since things went legal, do you think are still going to be hype weed
10 years from now?
Yeah.
Or have a resurgence.
There's a lot of them that got hyped and they got a marketing machine turned on and then
it, you know, and I mean, take, it's like, uh, it's hard enough in weed to have a one.
It's like music, right?
You can dis one hit wonders all you want, but most musicians never even get that far.
Yeah.
That's very true.
One to have one big hit.
Yeah.
Right.
That like everybody knows the song.
Most musicians don't get that.
That's rare, you know?
And then it's, and then most big bands and most acts, maybe they stay together four to
seven years.
Yeah.
It's the rare ones that are together 15, 20, 25, 30, and stay relevant throughout that
time.
Those are like unicorns.
Yeah.
Because I mean, even in marriages, it's hard to put up with someone for a set amount of
years and be lived that close to them and have that many disagreements and not kill
each other.
So I watched it.
Yeah.
It's crazy.
But then there's, but then there's also staying in the public eye and the public still liking
the new things that you're doing after time.
Yeah.
And so, and so if you want to apply that to weed or whatever, you know, like let's, let's
stay in cookie and this isn't meant to be a diss to him by any means.
So don't take it that way.
But you know, what is your Binsky done since Shervin gelato?
And when did those things and when did those things come out?
Yeah.
You know, it's been over 10 years, right?
Yeah.
You know, a lot of what Jigga and on those guys made.
With cookies, it turns out that they didn't even actually make it right.
Yeah.
They've had, they basically have taken under their brand, various house breeders at different
times.
Yeah.
I don't know who they all are, but at one point it was seed junkie, you know, at one
point it was fricking a what's his name?
Compound.
I love the fact that they hired a breeder who could even grow, which means there were
two middlemen between the seed maker and the buyer at it's just, when you hear that,
that is just, I love it.
Yeah.
And, you know, and, and, you know, they've got Kenny powers, who's actually pretty nice.
Who's been playing around on a small level for them in the background for a long time
and making things for them.
But as far as, you know, I mean, you know, the last, the most famous thing that jig has
done in the last five or six years is probably like rip everybody off for candy rain because
they didn't do a germ test before they sold the seeds.
And then everybody found out that, you know, basically half of them wouldn't sprout.
And then a bunch of them were mutants.
One of the awesome videos I was going to include was Kenny powers saying how he's from the
streets, so he doesn't enter into any of that genetic shit.
Yeah.
I mean, my favorite glow, they, uh, you know, it's, it's kind of like cookies is like, you
know, they, you see them open in New York or whatever.
And it's like, get the band back together again.
All the friends are older.
They've got gray in their hair now, but it all kind of, you know, catapulted them into
a different world in the last 10 or 15 years than it would have otherwise.
Yeah.
You know, and, and I think it's the same thing.
It's, it's an issue for you and everybody else too.
It's like, you talk about it, you talk about it.
We have private chats about it where in the nineties, um, you could have seed companies
that had the same eight or 10 lines for five, 10 years.
Mm-hmm.
And Matt'll joke with me that if he doesn't come out with something every eight months,
people think he retired or died.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Right.
Yeah.
I mean, I did that six month hiatus off Instagram and literally people were like, yeah, he's
done dude.
Why?
Yep.
Now who, you know, it doesn't take much to fall out of the public eye.
Yeah.
And then, and then on top of that, right.
It's like, so going back to like the, the one hit wonder, right.
You go see some one hit wonder band at a casino, right.
And they're still on tour 20 years later.
And what do you know?
They're going to play for sure.
That one hit that one hit.
You're gonna hear it.
And so for a lot of these breeders, and this is an issue in, this is an issue in breeding
in general, right.
And so this is, this is not to throw shade, but typically a breeder gets famous for a
specific line or a specific cut or whatever it might be.
And then they just remix that same cut forever.
Yeah.
Right.
Yeah.
It used to be the standard that, that used to be what it was.
It used to be the standard, like, you know, cross to everything like NorCal ICMag or whatever
got famous for OGKB.
And instead of branching off in different directions over time, you know, he's like,
you know, as, as far as a few months ago or whatever, he was like, there's more OGKB
coming down the pipeline.
I like OGKB.
I'm not, I'm not dissing it.
I'm just saying that like, that's typically what happens is you, the thing you get famous
off of, you start doing variations on that theme forever.
I did that with the Clockwork Orange for a long time.
And it just, it seems like that is what you like the typical seed company thing you do.
Yeah.
You know, the Swamp Boys with TK, they've branched out recently and done different things.
I was wondering why they didn't do more with the white.
Cause I mean, that was like their shit and like the Chrome's Blockhead.
I always thought that would be cool to bring back.
Yeah, they didn't.
I mean, but I just, I just mean that like, typically look at like Dying Breed with Skittles,
you know, or the Skittles crew, like what's the Skittles crew going to do next?
Yeah.
And is it going to have the same impact?
Work with Snitches.
But what's, what's, what are they going to do next?
Yeah.
Yeah, for sure.
And, and so it's an issue with like all, like if breeders are lucky enough that like
one line gets hella famous.
Yeah.
It's risky to just be like, this is totally unknown.
I'm going in a totally different direction.
This isn't what I'm known for at all.
Yeah.
But this is where my interest is now.
And I made that hit eight years ago and I'm not remixing it anymore.
Yep.
It's just in the past and you can get it if you want, but this is the direction I'm going in now.
Yeah.
That doesn't really happen very often in weed.
No, I, you know, and, and I can just comment on this a little bit
because when I made that decision with the clockwork, I also had to come to the realization
that it can disappear.
Like maybe no one will take interest in it after it's gone.
Maybe what if it just drops and that's that maybe, you know, but there's also the case of
what if someone I don't like runs with it?
This is my baby.
This is our flagship.
What if someone I don't like, there's all kinds of things that went through my head at that.
And then as a breeder, when you're making that decision to work with something that's not so
popular or something that someone else has worked with for years that you can still get,
that is a big decision to make.
It's hard to break away from, from what sells.
No, those are all the cuts that I like.
The not so popular ones.
Yeah, exactly.
Right.
Yeah.
But I mean, and that's the thing though, is that what's funny is that if you are a non-commercial
breeder, right, you have total freedom to do whatever the fuck you want.
Yeah.
Cause you can, cause you're just making it for you and your friends.
Yeah.
But if you're a commercial breeder and you get into all that and you get into all the packaging
and you get into like, I mean, now it's kind of ending the gray area cause everybody has to be
fully legal and regulated.
But like that whole era where you're buying a booth, you know, and you're doing all this
different stuff and all that, like there's a lot of expense that goes into it.
Yeah.
You know?
And so a lot of people breeding just want to hit, they just want to get on base.
They want a good hit.
They want a good, they want a next, this is my next release.
Right.
Yeah.
And so you look at a lot of people's breeding stock and you're like, oh, that's the three
things you're basing everything on.
Yeah.
And then what if you're in your thirties and you want to still be doing it in your fifties and
sixties, you're just going to have 20 or 30 years off the same basic shit.
The smartest thing that anyone's ever told me as it relates to cannabis and being a seed company
was from CSI.
And he said, never tie yourself to one clone.
Never ever tie yourself to one clone.
Said the second you do that, the second you're locked into one clone.
And if someone else gets that, you're no longer important.
And if you tie yourself to one clone, you can't, you can't create new, you know, I thought
that was brilliant.
But there's also a thing of like, where you are breeder and something happened along the
way that you got famous while you were already a breeder.
Like say, take something like, I don't know, you know, star dog.
Yeah.
Right.
Like JJ was, you know, top dog was already a breeder.
You know, and making a bunch of crosses when star dog got famous.
Yeah.
Right.
But take something like, uh, like Skittles or like a lot of breeders, they get, they start
breeding when they have a famous cut that other people can't get access to.
Yeah.
And so what happens when your whole breeding career is based upon access?
I mean, I remember, you know, I can't remember, you know, it was 10 years ago now, eight years
ago or something when Skittles was first hitting the scene and we would go to Emerald cup and
there would be a line waiting to buy, you know, 10 seeds for three to $500 of Skittles
hybrids because nobody could get the five.
Yeah.
Mostly five.
Yeah.
A lot of, you know, and, um, and, you know, so some of those guys became breeders at like
cookie or Skittles or whatever, when they got a famous cut.
Yeah.
You know, I mean, NorCal probably became, you know, a breeder when it was like, all
of a sudden OGKB was the shit and people wanted it real bad.
Yeah.
And he'll be like, well, I won't give it to you, but I'll give you hybrids.
You know, so did you become a breeder to breed or did you get ahold of something famous?
And you're like, man, I could also make money selling seeds off this shit.
Yeah.
Because then what do you do next?
What's your next album going to look like?
That's where it goes.
I mean, that's why you see a lot of these dudes scramble.
Right.
Sure.
You know, and it's like, it's the same thing in music.
It's like, how do you stay relevant over 20, 30 years?
You have to keep reinventing yourself.
Always.
You look at the history of seed breeding.
Who's, you know, the next person that does that will be the first.
Yeah.
Who's really, even over a 20 year period, who's stayed relevant?
That's a hard one.
I would have to say probably, you know, the one that I remember, you know, even though
people always joke at me that I'm is Neville.
Right.
Because yes, yes, yes.
But you can laugh, but it's like, you know, he started in 1985.
Yeah.
With all those things.
And then in probably like in 98.
Right.
So, you know, what is that 13 years later or something?
He released Mango Hayes, Super Silver Hayes and Neville's.
Yeah.
And certainly, you know, especially counting the Super Silver Hayes that had massive impact.
Yeah.
Right.
But think of somebody, think of somebody else that like 15 years after they got famous,
came up with something that also made them super famous again.
Yeah.
The hard one.
You know, most people are retired or busted or, or, you know, over it, you know, and even
dealing with the public is in that long is a huge pain in the ass.
Yeah.
There's a lot of older breeders that I've tried to come get back out, work with the
public again, and they just want nothing to do with it just because it's just not worth it.
It's not.
They've seen what I've dealt with.
They've seen what other people go with.
They're like, no.
You know, it's been me so far.
Yeah, exactly.
You're like release something.
And I'm like, oh yeah, that's all the stuff you go through and all the things you tell
me.
It just sounds swell.
Yeah.
You know, really swell.
So we're hitting the almost end of the show.
We've got to end it before the two hour mark.
And we're right about there.
I think we've covered a lot of this.
Is there anything else you wanted to run into while we still have time?
Oh, yeah, I guess we do.
I guess we are coming close.
You know, there was there's obviously a lot more that you could talk about with cookies.
I don't want to say we just scratched the surface, but it's Matt and I do a pretty like
free flowing.
Where does the conversation take us kind of style?
There's a lot of like cultural impact that it had.
There's a lot more depth and breeding.
There's different things that we could have brought up.
Because it's one of the big it's you know, there's a you know, there's a lot to it, right?
Yeah, some of it we danced around some we avoided some of it just isn't our interest.
You know, Matt and I's interest is much more the the plant side of things than the than
the people that some, you know, in certain aspects, right.
But you know, there's, I do think that there's a lot of rumor out there about it.
I do think we dropped a few tidbits that I'm pretty confident people will find interesting
night so that I think that's neat.
There is a dude.
There's a dude on on IGL shout out for a second.
Sure.
His name's Buckshot Hill.
His family's been growing for a long time.
And he's trying to hunt through and find some old like early pearl and different stuff like
that that his family used to grow and he was young.
And his great uncle just died this week.
And his great uncle is a as he said, I didn't know him, but he said he was an OG grower.
And he was part of the Kate Wolf Festival for a long time, which is a folk festival
that the hog farm family throws up at the Black Oak Ranch in Laytonville in Mendo.
So he was part of that extended family for a long time.
And apparently he's been growing for decades and he just passed away at a ripe old age.
So condolences to his family.
And we are losing a lot of that first gen.
Rest in peace, fellow outlaw growers.
Yeah, fellow outlaw growers, rest in peace, moment of silence.
And if you have old people in your family or community that have been growing for a
really long time and have stories, try to get those stories from them.
Because once they're gone, they're gone.
And most of our weed history is oral.
And you never know what little tidbits or different pieces of information that might
fit into a puzzle are sitting in those people's heads.
Yeah, I know most people don't know that not so as biggest fascination revolves around
oral too, which is.
It is.
It is a fascination of mine because, you know, human writing is a fairly modern invention.
And for most of human history, all history was oral.
Yeah.
Right.
And weed history, because it was illicit and clandestine and illegal for the most part,
wasn't exactly written down.
You didn't have a bunch of people getting on camera like we are now and talking about
it until recently.
So most of the people involved in the 60s, 70s and 80s are still mysterious.
Yeah.
And they're older now.
We're going to be working on some in the next coming up episodes.
We've been doing a lot of networking and communicating with people on the back end.
So there's a lot of stuff I'm really excited to tell you guys about in the future.
But I don't want to jinx it.
So, yeah, hopefully we'll have some cool new shows coming up soon.
Definitely go check out the site, right?
It's east.com.
We have we just did the Appalachia drop sold out within 20 seconds, literally 20 seconds
sold out.
We're going to restock those.
We have the Santa Cruz wreck, the Blue Dream train wreck restock and some smell boat stuff
restock.
So go check that out.
And yeah, you want to say anything else before we're done?
I'm just always happy that people give us their Friday night and their time, whether
they're watching it live or whether they watch it on replay.
You know, anybody that fellow nerds out with strain history, plant history and our weird
little niche.
Thank you very much.
Yeah.
Thanks.
I got to do it.
Persecutor from North Carolina.
Your generous, generous time you share with us on these long Fridays.
So cheers, everyone.
Have a great night.
