Welcome to Breeders Syndicate, where we explore the history of a clandestine seed through
the eyes of the folks who lived it.
I'm Matthew, owner of Riot Seeds.
I'll occasionally be joined by my co-host NotSoDog, breeder and grower from Mendocino.
Welcome to the Underground.
Hey, what's up everyone?
Welcome to Breeders Syndicate.
My name is Matthew.
This is my co-host NotSoDog.
There he is.
And we have with us today Madjag and Rekho.
So this is one of the episodes I've probably been looking forward to the most since we started.
And I'll leave it up to Madjag to kind of start his tale because this is one I couldn't
possibly begin to start.
So Madjag, when you started getting into growing, what was the impetus?
What was the start?
Well, the start was a friend of mine who is a dealer in Tempe, a weed dealer.
He saw all kinds of loads coming through over the years from the late 60s to, let's say,
73, 74.
And he would high-grade the seeds.
These were all seeded loads at first.
So if he had Guereran or if he had Oaxacan, if he found that it was a great strain, he
would keep the seeds.
And over time, he started collecting all these seeds.
And then one day, around 1975, he said, why don't we just gross our own with these seeds
instead of having to deal with the seeds?
Importing.
So we decided to test that theory.
And that's the very first grow in 1976 I did with him.
And I went up and found the spot that we would potentially use in a remote canyon along the
Mogollon Rim.
The Mogollon Rim is spelled like Mogollon, but it's pronounced Mog-ee-on or Mog-ee-on.
And it's the southernmost edge of the Colorado Plateau.
So it stretches roughly from Williams, Arizona, all the way to Mogollon, New Mexico, 200 miles
wide, this edge of the plateau.
And along the edge are all these cracks, let's call them.
And they're canyons with streams, year-round streams.
There's probably, I'd say, 20 canyons with year-round streams in that 200 miles.
And we chose one of them.
And when you decided to choose that, was it because you knew for a fact there was no
human interaction there?
Is it just so remote that nobody was going down there?
That's pretty much it.
Hunters stay up on top of the plateau edges and stuff, or they're way, way down in areas
that are easier to, more accessible.
Sure.
To hike down 1,600 feet into a canyon, down a boulder strewn wash, through bushes and
stuff.
Hunters wouldn't do it because if they shoot anything, they'd have to carry it out.
And it's just way too remote.
And the criteria was we wanted, it had to have a year-round stream.
So we had to make sure that it was flowing in the heart of the summer.
And a Jeep trail, dirt road that led close to it, so we wouldn't have to hike more than
maybe two hours one way.
Yeah.
And then we began testing it in different ways.
I'd have my friend who was the dealer from Tempe walk around down below while I was up
on the rim.
And we had walkie-talkies back then.
This is pre-cell phone.
So you just, I'd go, oh, I can see you.
You're wearing a white T-shirt.
So that had to change.
And then he had a straw hat.
That had to change.
You just can't be doing those things if you're in the bottom of the canyon and hunters, cowboys.
Ranchers still use these areas back in the early 70s.
They were grazing cows there, even though it was national forest.
The forest was allowing them, I think their permits go back to the 1920s or 30s or 40s.
And they just allowed them to continue on.
And they got tighter and tighter.
And then eventually by, let's say, late 70s, they stopped all the grazing in these areas
in this particular area, which was great.
Yeah.
A canyon away, some guys from Jerome were growing and they parked their truck every
week, week after week after week at the end of a Jeep trail.
And finally, the rancher using that area called the forest service and they came out and ran
the plates and found, oh, wow, they're from Jerome, the hippie capital of Northern Arizona.
So that was their scene.
Yeah.
And they didn't wait for them.
They just, they didn't want to go down inside in case it would become a shootout or something.
So they waited until they harvested it and took it all back to Jerome.
And then they busted on Jerome with like a hundred pounds.
Oh, no.
And it didn't have any effect on you guys?
No, it bothered us because they were within five miles by air of where we were.
But it's so remote and so difficult.
They chose a canyon that was a lot better known and people were known for hiking through
it and swimming through it because it was very long, had sections of wall to wall water.
You had to swim.
Our canyon was unknown and you couldn't hike down from the top because there was a spot
we called, um, uh, what land not lands in the hall of the mountain king is what we called
it.
It was a hundred foot waterfall drop off and you can't, you couldn't, you couldn't go down
it.
So we never had to worry about anyone hiking downstream from where it started as a wash
five miles away.
So how did you guys hike in?
How did you guys go in a certain way that, that made it accessible enough, obviously
for you guys, but other people didn't know?
Yep.
We drove five mile Jeep trail the first, well, this first time with my friend from Tempe,
it was about a three mile Jeep trail and then maybe a thousand foot drop off down into the
canyon.
And it, it was a canyon that at the top was heavily used by swimmers and, and people who
are into, um, crystal clear pools and things like that.
But the lower part where we were, um, there was no one, we never left footprints either.
We, these beautiful sandbars that are long creeks and edges, we would just avoid them
because we knew that if anyone did hike through, that's the first place they would walk because
it was easier.
So we could always check for footprints and our primary can imagine a canyon, which came
the next year.
Um, in five years, we only saw one set of footprints.
Wow.
Ironically, my partner picked up a hitchhiker on the way back to the nearest town and he
was the guy who had hiked through there.
So we, we found out he, he was all excited because he had hiked this 12 mile canyon and
nobody.
And he had hiked right by our gardens and never knew it, you know, down.
Yeah.
So that was good karma meeting the guy, the hip.
What I, what I find so interesting when I was, when I was reading a little bit about
your, your history and stuff is how similar, um, although, although a little bit different
just due to geography.
Like when I first moved to Mendocino County and we were just, we were just, we were just
doing guerrilla before the medical era really started, uh, was how similar the criteria
was in that you were looking for somewhere very remote and accessible.
Uh, normal people, hikers, hunters, various people would never go there, but you needed
water.
Uh, and you couldn't really take a vehicle up there or even like dirt bikes or anything
because you never wanted to leave a trail that would have been visible from the air.
So you would only get so, so close.
And then the rest of it was sort of hoofing it in and even hoofing it in from like different
angles so that you wouldn't create a path in summer that would be visible.
Was that, can I, uh, let me interject a question.
Were they flying, looking for weed then, or was that too early for that?
Um, it was too early.
They, there were, there were people who talked about that.
There were people who talked about that, that going on, but we never saw that happen.
We did have a helicopter land in our Canyon in the only spot that was wide enough.
This is another weird one.
And their tracks went about the tracks from the helicopter went about 400 yards down the
Canyon stop and then went back.
And we thought we were dreaming because we didn't see the helicopter.
We just saw these tracks and we followed them to this little opening.
But when we got down on our knees and looked carefully, little, little pieces of paint
had, had chipped off the helicopters.
Um, I forget what are those, the skids let's call them.
Yeah.
And on the rocks, cause it's volcanic rock.
So it's very sharp.
So we knew we were hallucinating and a helicopter had landed there.
And later we found out it was Eagle studiers from the university in, in, we're not sure
which university, but they were checking out all the canyons up there and getting out and
hiking.
If they saw Eagles and trying to get some numbers for their studies.
So we, we felt okay.
But the, the actual looking for plants, um, you know, if you were to open, if you were
to like clear a huge wide area and leave it open and then just start growing such that
you could stand on the edge of a canyon and look down in and go, Hey, what's that?
Um, that would be bad.
Yeah.
So you have to go in and out between the bushes, make little patties that flowed from one to
the next level and work it out.
And then later we even found out it made sense because we were up on the rim looking down
after watering and the reflection on the mud was very obvious that this was an area that
had gotten water.
So every time we water, which was once a week, we spread Oak leaves and whatever leaves were
there, we started piling them up in advance and just threw them on top and totally stopped
the reflection.
So we did a lot of things.
We painted all of our hose connections with Brown spray flat.
Sure.
Spray paint so that it wouldn't reflect.
We never wore white t-shirts or hats.
We, we had this photo that you have up right now.
That's my first, my second part.
He's my first partner in magic.
Cause the guy I started with, who's the dealer, we, um, went separate ways kind of because
he didn't, he lived in Tempe and it was just, wasn't feasible for him to come up and do
this every week.
So I lived in the Verde Valley, which I was still over an hour away, but it made more
sense.
And this fellow that you see here was my first partner.
He lived in flag and this is what the Creek looked like year round water.
This pond right here is what we pumped out of.
And our first garden was 90 feet above the Creek level.
So we used a Briggs and Stratton four horsepower, um, two inch fire hose.
And it, it was, it wouldn't pump up 90 feet.
So we had to drop down the garden hose adapter that it forced it up to 90 feet.
We just, yeah.
There was different pumps we could have gotten for more money, like six horsepower that weighed
150 pounds or something.
And, uh, but we, we, it worked.
So it took two hours that first garden to just move the hose around.
We only had one hose and we just move it in subsequent years, we created, um, systems
of hoses.
So you just, you know, they all just watered.
And then those, those filled up little paddies and then those poured over onto the next level
and to the next level, because the, the train was relatively flat on these alluvial plateaus,
but you know, maybe a foot or two of, of, of differences.
Plus we, we raked it and leveled it and use rocks to, to outline little paddies so that
maybe there'd be two or three plants.
Yeah.
On a paddy.
And then the next one would be next to it and it would drop off.
We had free hoses though, too, uh, that were on Siamese shutoffs and we could open them
up and then, you know, spot hit other plants and it worked pretty well.
We spent a lot of time developing our hose network on subsequent years.
Sounds like after that person.
Yeah.
So I'm going to bring in.
You know, Matt, Matt Jag, this is Raho.
So just, I want to jump in there.
You know, you're talking about all these gorilla, um, tactics and, you know, this is
back in the seventies you're talking about.
When you were, when you were doing all this stuff, was any of this kind of inspired by
the war that we had just finished fighting in Vietnam?
And, you know, the, everything that we used to hear on the news all the time about the
gorilla fighters over there and how they concealed what they did.
I know that when I was doing my gorilla stuff, it was, you know, I'm listening to your stories
and it's exactly like what I did, except my stuff was all green and not, not rock, you
know, but, uh, where, where, where was your inspiration for.
The whole catalog.
The written word has always been my guide.
And, um, this is domestic grower supply catalog from 1981, 1980.
And I read about this in the whole earth catalogs and I, I wrote in a way for it.
Look at these waterbed classical tanks to fit in the back of your truck.
So you can pull up to the edge of a Canyon.
I knew people who use this method, then it all gravity feed downhill for 600 feet to
their spot.
And, um, this, this is a small little thing, small little catalog it as, but it does have
a very nice section on, on pumps.
And these guys, I don't know, once we started to make their second catalog in color, 1982,
and they were based out of, I think, Oregon, let's see where this is.
But they have all kinds of guzzler pumps hand operated, um, where you just, that wouldn't
work for us, but we've had a few times where things broke and we had to water by hand using
five gallon jugs, dipping them in the water.
It takes five hours, but, but you, you can't neglect it because you're there to water.
And, oh, it was good the way we did it.
We were fortunate because one week we would flood irrigate.
We estimated in subsequent years that we were putting 20,000 gallons on, on our little gardens.
So that would in this soft dirt that we used, it would sink nice and deep.
And then the roots would follow it.
It's, but you couldn't go two weeks.
If you went like even 10 days, which we tried to do a few times, you'd come back and all
the plants were wilted and drooping or freaked out because we thought we had messed up.
And we went ahead and watered and the next morning, everything was standing up perfect
and looking beautiful.
They're amazing plants, how they can be almost shriveled.
And then one water or just, yeah.
Did you ever use any like any water retention crystals or anything like that to extend?
Because that was, that was some, that was some technique that, you know, like by the
time that I got to Mendocino County and started doing stuff like that, there was already a
lot of like, I don't know if you want to call it Hill Tech or older people that were passing
down how to get away with things.
And infrequent watering was always, well, how do you retain the water?
How do you, how do you keep it?
How do you keep things wet when you're only checking on things every so often?
So our Canyon was 12 miles long and we, we hiked it up and down to find the two spots
that we, this was the first spot that's on the camera right now.
But the other two spots we found were up Canyon and we, you just don't come across
alluvial plateaus at water level.
They're up at least 20 feet above and we had to scramble up and look and scramble up and
we'd be up in the rim and look down and say, hey, that looks like a good spot.
And then go back the next week and check it.
But when we finally found our two spots, this soil is wind deposited over centuries and
decades, multitudes.
And it was so nice.
There was rocks in there, big boulders, as you can see here.
But in this very first place down below here is where that photo was taken.
And this is at almost at harvest.
You can see the size of the coal is sticking up.
We, the soil was just this beautiful, rich volcanic soil.
Although when Robert Clark came down in the second year of our new location, not this
one, he said he couldn't believe we were growing in dirt.
And I said, well, what do you mean in dirt?
And he said, well, in Mendocino and up in the north, it's not dirt like this.
It's soil like black, rich soil.
And ours was brown and gray and just dirt.
But it was easy to shovel.
So that meant that water penetrated it and so did roots very easily.
We turned the soil down 18 inches, I think.
And the only amendments we ever added were bone meal and blood meal.
Oh, wow.
That was it.
We just have to do a foliar and the foliar spray saved us from this twisting leaf thing
that we it was a micronutrient that was missing.
We think it was molybdenum, but we sprayed the plants and it saved our butts because
they all untwisted.
No, that's nice.
But that's it.
Let me ask a question in terms of when did the growing season, like when were you, when
was it nice enough outside that you were able to plant and how much work did you do to prep
in the winter, spring, off season?
Like when you said you turned the soil and you had to run all these hoses and prep all
this different stuff, how much pregame went into like preparing the areas you were thinking
about using?
We had November and December and January off and then we were back out in February.
You know, preparing.
We started small.
This garden here you're looking at in this photo is probably 100 feet by 50 feet with
boulders and trees and stuff in it.
It's it blended in pretty well, even from the rim.
It does blend in really well.
Yeah.
However, the next garden we used was three times the size of this and we planted in between
bushes and trees, which I'm sure you've seen in some of the photos.
But when there were no plants, those between the bushes and trees were the paddies, I'm
just calling that we had to build up with rocks and have it spill over to the next garden
in the next or in the next paddy in the next one.
But we had free hoses to be able to walk around and in water with.
It took, I don't know, months of prep the very first time because we had to bring down
so much stuff.
And then the third year we grew, we did two gardens.
That was the big year and that's the year that Rob Clark came down to see.
He only came down to see the one easiest to reach garden.
And in this photo is kind of an early photo of that first garden.
These are little tiny plants in here in these.
That first garden, was that primarily different types of Mexican that your dealer friend had
collected?
Was that the primary seed stock for the first season?
I mean, you were saying stuff about Oaxacan, I believe, and some other things.
Was there any Colombian and stuff?
Yeah, but the first year we just grew the Mexican strains and it was in this other canyon
that people actually went to the top of it and would swim there.
But our canyon, we didn't start until my partner that you saw down there next to the
water.
That, hold it right here if you could hold that one.
Which one, the last one or this one?
Yeah, the last photo.
Okay, I was trying to jump through.
This one?
That one.
This one.
You can see how they stand out.
Yeah, definitely.
The canvas.
The evergreens here were giant pines and small shrub oak trees and bushes.
But from the rim, it didn't look too blocky.
They were scattered out.
If you really knew what you were looking for, yeah, you would have spotted this from 1,600
feet above.
But no one really went to those edges and those canyons.
This was not, especially when it's 100 degrees out.
Yeah.
It was difficult.
So this is just, I'd say this is one half of this garden.
It extends over here and over here.
And this was only 30 feet above the creek.
But it was in a spot that you would never expect it.
And we hiked up there and went, holy cow, this is perfect.
So we were able to pump two inches of water in a two-inch fire hose up to this flat.
And that's why we put about 20,000 gallons of water in there.
We put about 20,000 gallons on here every week.
And so do you mind me asking how old you were?
I was 28.
28?
Yep, 28 and 29 and 30 when we were doing these three canyons, these three gardens that you're
seeing here.
Yeah, my partner was the same age.
We were all just late 20s and right around 30 when we started doing this.
In 76, though, I was only 25.
Are you still in contact with any of the other guys?
All of them.
All of them.
So they're all still with us?
That's awesome.
That's freaking awesome.
Yeah, relatively speaking.
The dealer from Tempe has, what's that disease?
He's now in a wheelchair after 15 years.
He made it 15 years.
Multiple sclerosis.
MS.
Yes, MS.
So he's kind of restricted.
Another partner who was the very last one I worked with, he was a friend.
We all knew each other independently.
I mean, it was great because we're all originally friends.
He has early onset Alzheimer's.
He's 70.
And he has great long-term memory, but he can't drive a car.
If he gets in a car and starts driving, he doesn't remember where he is within a block.
So he's restricted.
But my first partner that you saw there in Mad Jag, came down by the water.
He's 6'7".
And he's big.
He's still around.
And I see him every once in a while.
But my partner for the last two years in Mad Jag, he lives in Taos.
He's originally from the UK.
One who just wrote the year of the Mad Jag.
He's got it on Amazon.
You can get it.
It's a fictional account of using all of that.
MS.
I didn't know that.
Yeah, all of us and all of the characters.
But it's more about a love affair he had at the time.
And it's pretty funny.
He got an honorable mention in the F. Scott Fitzgerald competition or something.
MS.
Oh, wow.
MS.
He is writing a second book now already that's going to be more factual.
MS.
That'll be great.
MS.
My pilot friend, who he's in the Chronicle I wrote called, I Know the Guy Who Knows the Guy.
MS.
Yeah.
MS.
I just talked to him a few days ago.
He called me because he just fell and broke his hip.
MS.
I know.
MS.
I was going to invite him to be on this show.
MS.
But he's in the hospital in Anchorage, Alaska now.
MS.
I know.
Bizarre.
So the universe didn't want that to happen.
And I had kind of thought he wouldn't want to.
He makes Mr. Nice look small.
We'll go into his story later if you don't mind.
MS.
Yeah.
I'd love to.
MS.
The last time I saw him physically in 1985 until last year, they were just working on
60 tons of hashish from Pakistan.
And this is the level he worked at.
And he retired, never was busted.
It's incredible.
I know.
It's amazing.
But if you knew him, you'd understand.
This is why I was so intent on getting this show.
Because I think we talk about a lot of the people who have been put on a pedestal in
our scene.
Of course, Sam the Skunk Man, Rob Clark, amazing people, obviously deserve their accolades.
I mean, the big heroes in the scene.
But there's some guys who did some really big, bold stuff that don't quite get seen
for many reasons.
A lot of it has to do with the fact that it was clandestine and illegal.
And some folks don't even still want to talk about it.
But there are some amazing stories out there that I've come across over the years.
And yours was one.
And speaking to someone that you were able to bring with you, Raho, I wanted to get into
a little bit with you, Raho.
Can you talk about when you first started collecting and getting into growing?
MS.
Yeah, sure, Matt.
Man, it seems like so long ago.
I was just a kid.
78 was the first time I smoked weed.
And back then, you had to smoke three, four, five times before you ever actually felt the
effect.
I don't know if it was because the concentration of THC wasn't as high as it is today.
Or maybe the stuff that kids could buy on the street back then wasn't so great.
But by the time I got high that very first time, I was 15 years old, after school at
a buddy's house.
And it took a while to kick in.
And I was actually riding my bike home, thinking, oh, another time that it didn't work, when
it started to hit me.
And it was a beautiful spring day.
The sun was out.
The air was just, it was one of those days where the air was crisp.
And the temperature was perfect.
I'm cranking away on this 10-speed bike, and the wind is blowing in my face.
And all of a sudden, I kind of noticed that the air and the light and everything is just
kind of alive.
The feeling of the wind and the air circulating around me and in my face and everything just
became, it was like I was connected with everything around me.
And it was just a wonderful experience.
And I get home, and I put on some music, because I'm really cranking at this point.
It's really kicking in.
And I'm like, wow.
I mean, I drank plenty of beer, but this was nothing like it.
And I put on these headphones, and it's Ted Nugent, Great White Buffalo.
Right?
Wide open, cranked up.
And it's like, you know that song, the Great White Buffalo.
And oh, my god.
The heightened senses and all of it going with it.
How old were you, then?
How old were you, Rahul?
15.
Perfect day for it, too.
When I was listening to that, it sounds like you had your very own bicycle day.
Because that's what happened to Albert Hoffman when he first took LSD, is he didn't know
how to work.
That's right.
Yeah.
And he got on a bike and started going around.
And all of a sudden, colors and wind.
And he's like, what's going on?
I'm starting to feel something unusual.
Yeah.
Changing the way I think.
Yeah.
And changing the way people have to.
Wow.
I had no idea, man.
That's awesome.
They celebrate it today.
They call it bicycle day.
Because he took acid accidentally, and then he hopped in his bike, and he started riding
around.
And all of a sudden, things started altering on him, and he really wasn't sure what was
happening.
He thought it was the most beautiful experience he'd ever had and wanted to give it to everyone.
It was kind of similar to what you just said.
That's what made me think of it.
Colors and the wind.
And you were very in tune with nature.
And you're riding your bike.
It just kind of triggered that for me.
Yes.
Of your headspace changed.
And all of a sudden, the world was born anew.
It was.
Yeah, that's amazing.
I mean, to share that experience or similar, right?
With such a famous man.
Pretty cool.
It's a great story, dude.
So that was the first time getting high.
And as soon as I came down, mom and dad came home from work.
And I'm like, God, can they tell?
Dinner's prepared and everything.
And I was starting to reflect on what's happened to me.
And I realized that the last seven years of my life that I've been told these things in
school about drugs are bad.
They're evil.
And they'll make you want to jump off of a building because you think you can fly or
you'll be violent or you'll immediately be addicted and fiending for more.
And I mean, it was just all of a sudden, I just started questioning everything I'd ever
been told by the authorities.
Because they lied about this.
And if they lied about that, what else did they lie about?
So almost every bag of weed that I got after that, and there were many, right?
Because that was the beginning.
And I've never been the same.
But every bag came with seeds back then.
Four-finger bars, man.
That's right.
Two fingers.
Four fingers.
Yeah.
Yep.
Two fingers for a quarter, one finger for a dime bag, you know, half ounces.
It's just simple math.
But there were plenty of seeds in it.
And where I lived in the southeast, it was mostly Colombian that we saw.
I know Mad Jag, they got lots of Mexican out there.
And he was very close to where it came from and everything.
But for us, buying kids, buying weed on the street, it was commercial Colombian most of
the time.
And it was just loaded with seeds.
So the very next year, in 1979, I tried to grow my first garden.
And I had a tray full of sprouts.
I've been gardening with my mom ever since I was a little kid in the vegetable garden.
Tomatoes and cucumbers and watermelons and you name it.
But growing weed was just another garden thing for me.
So I got them to sprout.
I think I might have even used the paper towel method.
Because after I started smoking it, I immediately discovered High Times Magazine.
And it became a monthly ritual of going down to the bookstore and picking it up.
And that was at the beginning of High Times, yeah?
76, 77, 75?
Yeah, so it had been around for a few years.
I mean, I think 77 was the first year.
There you go.
Yeah.
And but you know, I took those sprouts and I put them out in the bright full sunlight.
You know, I started them indoors under a little fluorescent light.
And I put them with no hardening at all under the sun.
And I went out the next day and they were all dead.
And that was the end of, you know, year one.
Total failure, you know?
The next year I came back and I hit it pretty hard.
And me and a couple of friends of mine.
How are your parents with this?
You know, that's a great question.
Just amazingly open-minded about it.
You know, at one point, maybe it was 81, I think.
I started breeding.
I had picked up Rob Clark's...
Marijuana Botany?
Marijuana Botany.
And it was just so inspiring, you know?
I mean, it really, everything just clicked as far as the science of breeding and
the way that he described, you know, genetics and selection and creating hybrids and everything.
It was all so intuitive to me.
It all just made complete and total sense.
So I immediately wanted to make my own seeds and start breeding.
And, you know, that meant, of course, you know, we wanted smoke too.
So we needed to segregate the males.
And I wound up bringing these male indica plants into my parents' house.
You know, I mean, I had these things in the dining room, in the window.
I'm just stinking, you know, I don't know how they put up with it.
My mom is gone now, so I can't ask her that.
I have a question for you.
So it sounds like, you know, obviously, he's messing with Oaxacan and different things
from Mexico, you know, Arizona and New Mexico and that are not that much different climate.
But if you're in the southeast of the United States and you're getting mostly Colombian,
when you that second year where you didn't kill your seedlings and you got a lot farther down the
path, did you hit a point where you were like, are these ever going to finish?
That's a great question.
So, you know, that second year, we had a neighbor across the street had pulled in a harvest in 79.
One of his friends had gone to Maui for Christmas and had come back with seeds of what I know now
was Maui walleyes in 79.
And he grew, they grew a big patch of that stuff.
And it was it was wide leaf.
It was, you know, I know today that it was it was Mexican and some sort of indica hybrid.
Um, you know, it finished early.
It had amazing taste.
And being a poor kid that cut lawns for money, luckily, half of their crop was seeded.
And they sold me the seeded stuff for cheap because nobody wanted it.
Yeah.
So back then, nobody wanted seeded weed.
Well, you know, I mean, everything was seeded, you know, when you when half your crop is
seedless and they made T-shirts, you know, that's your sins.
And they were they were so, you know, yeah, yeah, yeah.
They were.
I'd love to see some of those today.
I know I'm such a nerd for all the old vintage shit.
If you ever see it, let me know.
You know, it's it's amazing.
You know, kids immediately turn into, you know, these instant entrepreneurs when they
wind up with with, you know, a bedroom full of weed hanging from the ceiling.
That's for sure.
You know, it's just all of a sudden, you know, it turns into, well, all my friends are going
to want this.
So how much am I going to charge for it?
Yep.
And, you know, all of a sudden.
You got lucky in the sense that you got a hybrid that would actually finish in your
area.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I always had this idea.
And I'm obviously like in 19 when you guys are speaking of 1975, 77, 78, I was still
happily in diapers.
It's definitely not my my part, but I always thought that like maybe the first American
breeding was you're getting this import from Thailand and Colombia and Panama and all that.
And you're like, well, how the hell do I get this to finish where I'm at?
Maybe I can take this Mexican and I can shorten it up some because this Mexican seems to be
quicker.
But you're exactly right.
Yeah.
This time, this Colombian is taking a million years and it's getting cold and it's getting
rainy and my stuff doesn't even look like it's done.
Yeah.
So I mean, that that Maui was was only part of the crop that we did that year.
You know, it was we also had a Mexican and we had we had a couple of Colombians, you
know, it was and all my friends were growing at that point.
Right.
So, you know, everybody had a couple of plants out in the woods and we go to a party on Friday
night.
Somebody's parents were out of town and sometimes they'd walk out behind the house and, you
know, into the woods behind their house and there'd be a little six foot Colombian Christmas
tree in a in an opening in the woods behind their house, you know, just a just a little
hole in the canopy where the sun came in.
And yeah, so those Colombians, you know, they would they would we didn't we never really
finished them as we know, you know, what, you know, resin glands and yeah, probably
finish.
They weren't they were never really properly finished, but they were finished well enough
that, you know, we we could get into the end of November and sometimes even, you know,
first couple of weeks of December where I lived before before the frost would.
That's very personal.
Yeah.
And the hardest part is actually, you know, not picking it early.
Kids didn't know any better than we just wanted to smoke the stuff.
So, you know, I mean, we were just going off of the the weather reports in the newspaper
and sure, you know, farmers almanac bullshit.
So maybe maybe I could ask a question of both of you these first couple of years that you
guys are both describing.
What were the what were the the aromas?
What were the scents?
What were the terpene?
You know, no one's no one used terpenes back then.
But like what were the what did the weed smell like to you?
You know, did it just smell like weed?
Did you did you get citrus?
Did you get any kind of skunk?
Did you get did you smell like weed?
You know, if you can remember what aromas were you getting off these original Mexicans
and and Colombians and these and these or even a 1979 skunk one.
What would that smell like?
Well, yeah, we were going to get there.
But I was just curious is like what what did Wahaken smell like?
You know, like did it because, you know, we know we know these lines from like way later
when they've been worked by people extensively and bred in different directions.
And it sounds like you guys were getting it basically from the farmer, the source and
the from unadulterated from the farmer and the source actual like what we would call
land race today, I suppose.
Do you want to go first, Matt Jagger?
Sure.
Well, the very first I'll just I have a little startup here.
The first two joints I bought were in 1966 from the only hippie in my high school.
And I I wasn't quite ready to smoke them.
So I put them in a bottle and buried them in my yard.
And two years later, when I dug them up and thought, oh, try them.
They were just mold, pure mold.
That didn't work.
But they had, you know, your really earliest weed that I remember smelling from my friend
in well, when I went to.
Yeah.
Pine, pine terpenes really stood out in 1975 or 76.
Some growers weed from Santa Barbara was showing up in the Verde Valley in Sedona, Colorado.
Wood, Jerome area and probably coming to Phoenix.
And it smelled just like fresh pine.
I've never smelled weed like it again since then.
If you close your eyes and just held it up, you would think you're you had pine soul in
your in front of you like a Christmas tree style or pine soul, would you say?
More of a Christmas tree style.
Yeah.
Natural pine.
Cool.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And it was it was beautiful stuff.
It was since it was strong and it was very inspiring because when we smell that type,
we throw tie stick had a total different scent.
It was heavy and earthy.
I remember seeing early tie sticks in 1970, 71 that were.
Supposedly dipped in opium to or opiate, the pass a water.
Yeah, they had white on the outside.
We sat down with some black hash once that was
opiated, supposedly blue, black, white specks of it.
And we cut out with razor blades every white speck.
And so we had to be in mold.
So we can have enough to take a hit.
And it was an opium.
I don't know what it was.
It didn't get us any higher, but it made the costs go up when people were buying it.
They paid more for it.
I've looked a lot into that situation, especially when researching chocolate tie,
because a lot of that theory behind chocolate tie was that it was dipped in something called
pasha water or pass a water, which was the the the water that was left over from producing heroin.
It had the alkaloids, the morphine, alkaloids and stuff in it.
And supposedly the story was that they would dip it in that.
But there's not really any proof of any of this ever existing anywhere.
But that was the theory behind it and where it kind of all stemmed from.
It may have happened once or twice, but I don't know if it ever really got out there.
But I've heard about people being charged massive amounts of prices for these tie
sticks that were supposedly dipped in this water.
Yeah, there's been long, long debates about that online.
But yeah, you know, it's I think it's been pretty much debunked,
mostly because the people growing the two different crops weren't really the same people.
And a lot of them weren't producing heroin.
They were just farmers.
Not right.
Like not like before we lose track.
What was the smell that you were getting off off your
Hawaiian hybrids that you were successful with that second year?
Right.
So, I mean, you know, the Mexican versus Colombian, you know, pretty, pretty distinctive.
I usually associate cedar tastes and kind of a kind of a citrus, citrus, piney,
cedary taste with with Mexican.
And I grew some beautiful walking a couple of times that, you know,
it flowered so much faster than the Colombian that I actually let it go too long to the point where
it was it was actually over mature and I it had lost some of its potency.
But but that was contrasted with the Colombians, which were, you know, usually we'd get a lot of
purple because they'd be coming in so late that just the temperature change would bring out a lot
of purple colors in it.
You know, once something turns purple that.
What's that?
What's that?
It's not chlorophyll.
It's the other.
Anthocyanins.
Yeah, the anthocyanins really seem to affect the taste.
And oh, yeah, they always do affects the taste and smell.
But yeah, and I and personally, I like it.
Right.
I do, too.
Purple fiend.
Yeah.
But, you know, like like Madjag said, the you know, the pine was was there in the Colombian.
And there's a difference between the smell and the taste when you smoke it.
There's.
There is there's some of it has kind of a chocolatey.
I mean, you know, I don't want to completely sidetrack things into a haze talk.
But, you know, my my belief is when I when I started growing O'Hays.
You know, a few years ago, I found that the effects one day I just realized that the effects
that I got from smoking O'Hays and even the tastes were exactly the same as what I felt
that first time I got high riding that bicycle home, you know, that.
Yeah, the Colombian.
And, you know, that, you know, it really kind of messed with my head a little bit because
for so long, people talked about haze as the mixture of, you know, four different kinds of
Satev, Mexican, Colombian, Thai and Indian.
Right.
Yeah.
And, you know, trying to figure out how this what is obviously, you know, Sam's the O'Hays
as it's been released to the world since since Sam brought it to Amsterdam.
Yeah.
You know, is not everything that they that they made when the poster was made.
Right.
And the pedigree was described.
It's that's what Sam brought with him.
That's what Sam preserved.
That's what Sam shared.
A three way Colombian hybrid.
Right.
Not the Indian, not the Thai, not not the Mexican.
And the tastes are there.
You know, there's kind of a chocolatey taste to it.
You know, earthy, you could call it there's piney.
You can find some sweetness in there, some citrus.
There's different phenols in there, but it's all coming from Colombia as far as I'm concerned.
You know, we can have a debate and I'll let anybody believe what they want to believe.
I genuinely think like right now there is a man with a letter D for a name that is just
smiling ear to ear when it when a Neville's old partners have been talking to me and not so a
bunch specifically about Sam's O'Hays being so Colombian dominant, being so Colombian dominant.
And the the 69 Hayes was it that Neville had gotten the first time was very much more like
Southeast Asian dominant.
And that was the main difference between the Hayes Neville was using and why Neville's Hayes
became so popular and why a lot of the O'Hays supposedly that's one of the theories why O'Hays
didn't come as as much as it had promised.
It reminded me of something, actually, because it had been mentioned earlier on the thing is that
when, you know, Thai and stuff like that was a little bit broader leafed.
Right. And, you know, he made a point that, you know, Sam and those guys, you know, they kept
breeding towards the thin leaf because they thought that was more sativa. But that was actually
more Colombian sativa. And that some of the Southeast Asian stuff and some of the ties,
it's not like they were fat leaved, but they were broader leafed than pure Colombian was.
Yeah, I've got a picture of a tie I grew in 81. It was it was a tie stick from 1980 that a friend
brought home from college. Older brother of one of my partners brought home from college and
in Colorado. And it's very thin leaf. And I know that, you know, people talk about with tie the
alligator tail leaves, right? Broad leaf, extreme serrations. And it's you know, it's it has a
reputation for that. But that was you know, it's a it's a big country. And, you know, we all know
from growing that, man, you can't even pack pop a 10 pack of seeds without seeing, you know,
a couple of narrow weaves in there with the wide leaves. So why should we think that an entire
country is going to produce nothing but the same thing? Of course, microclimate everywhere. Yeah.
For for Matt and myself, you know, when I was first started smoking, the only real two kinds
of import I ever saw was brown Mexican and green Mexican. I came up a little later, the tie,
the Colombian, the you know, the Panamanian, all some of these different regional things,
you know, the the shift towards all those groups, mostly importing cocaine had already happened.
So a lot of the diversity and imports had changed. And there was still a bunch of Mexican.
But that's kind of all it was for us. Yeah, same experience for me, even a decade,
coming in a decade, I think after not so where I was starting, it was the same. We had Mexican.
Was it? You know, talking about these Mexicans, I'm thinking about Mad Jags experience with that
stuff. And I don't want to can we just stick a pin in now I want to make one more point about
the Hays and the the Colombian, the Colombian roots of it as we know it today, that, you know,
Colombia, just like we were just discussing, Thailand is, you know, obviously going to have
a diverse range of different different chemotype phenotypes, whatever. But but, you know, in
Colombia, you had reds and golds and green and, you know, black, black. Yeah. I mean, so many
different types. And and they all had such distinctive flavors and tastes and effects.
You know, I was lucky, you know, when I started doing this stuff, it was it was the end of the
glory days of those elite, those elite types of wheat. I got to smoke the Panama Colombian red.
I got to smoke real Santa Mara gold. And, you know, they all have things in common. But but
they were some unique characteristics about them that just, you know, feeble difference, you know,
just a big, big, big fan of are the connoisseur and High Times magazine. And he inspired me to
become a connoisseur of life and appreciate all the differences between things and savor them.
And I want to point this out, just because I just even a recent episode, I made a statement that I
thought our was Robert Clark, because that's kind of what people have been saying forever,
or it's assumed, but I think that might be wrong, maybe. Totally wrong. Totally wrong. So yeah,
that's that's an important note to make, because I have always associated everything Robert Clark's
ever written with are the connoisseur and I love are the connoisseur. And I love Robert Clark,
too. But I've always associated them as the same person. And then they're not.
I asked Rob himself, because, yeah, long ago, I wondered the same question and he said no.
And I actually heard ours real name and I can't remember it right now. But someone I know from
Manhattan knows him and and said, oh, no, that's a different guy. I wonder if he's still with us.
I don't know. Man, you'd be great on the interview. One thing I'm curious about,
I don't want to there's so many threads that happen in these kind of convo's you could lose
it at. But when you were describing how difficult it was to get to your canyon grows,
having done some gorilla myself and hidden, obviously, like growing it is one thing,
but then harvesting it and drying it and getting it out of there is another thing.
Could you talk for a minute about what that was like if you're going down some goat trail
through the rocks and all of a sudden you have several hundred pounds that would be, you know,
that I mean, more like a thousand pounds when it's wet. You know, did you try to dry it there
in the bushes? Did you hike it all out one by one? How much effort went into that? Because I
that's a real struggle. We. Once we started growing in our own canyon in Magic Canyon,
we did everything except for that first year where you had the photo of my friend
down next to the water. But the subsequent two years with my partner from the UK
and we had a Swiss helper, too, who I'm still good friends with. I saw him three years ago in Zurich.
He we did everything down there. We manicured it. We dried it, manicured it, boxed it. We we bought
knockdown boxes from a supplier in Phoenix that were roughly, I'd say, about well,
four, 12 inches by eight inches by six inches. And that held a pound. So that's what we did.
We we brought Kelty pack frames that were just bare frames without the associated baggage on them
and bungee cords. And we could stack five of these boxes on one Kelty so you could carry out five
pounds. Oh, wow. Every every bit was hiked out that way up the 1600 foot wash of boulders and
strewn. And we had pruned a few branches here and there where you just had to have clearance to get
under a pine tree or something. And we were very fortunate because. Are one of the people in my
life who's still around. He was one of the two princes of peyote that I've written about. He
also is a huge weed dealer. And he would meet us at the edge of our canyon after sunset. And we
would just hike up, hand him however many boxes we brought up, and he'd hand us a paper bag full
of cash. And we didn't have to even drive to Phoenix or take the risk of trying to take it
back home because that was actually the thought of working that hard for a year and then losing it
all because you got a traffic stop that was really influenced us. So. We got a hundred dollars an
ounce, 1600 a pound, and. That was the standard price and he sold it all by grams. Smart man.
He sold it. He sold it for $10 a gram to college students at ASU. He lived two blocks away from
from ASU in 10 minutes. He just would buy everything we had and just slowly sell it over
a year or two and triple his money. So you had a, you had a, you had a, you had one or two friends
that were helping you. Right. So when it comes to hiking it out, if you could bring about five
pounds at a time, that means each trip you're probably at a maximum of 10 or 15 pounds. Yep.
And so at harvest time, we brought in six more people at harvest time. Okay. That makes more
sense. Yeah. I was going to say, I was like, man, you were really fit. Yeah. Your legs, your hiking
ability was intense because it's a lot of back and forth. Yeah. Well, that part, I mean, I've,
I've hiked down gasoline, you know, five gallons of gas is like 35 pounds and we have triple baggage
garbage bags and it would still stink. It was amazing because shaking it and moving down,
it was so difficult to keep it not from saturating everything. But at harvest time,
boyfriends and girlfriends of ours and others, um, at most we had a eight people down there
manicuring. Um, we, we set up 10 by 10 foot Coleman classic tents that were spray painted.
So they were a light Brown color, but we sprayed them with a little darkness and green and they
blended in very nicely. And we limbed the plants. We, we cut, we cut a whole plan if we could,
we cut a whole plan if we could, if it wasn't too big, we'd hang it for a day or two. And then we'd
cut the branches off, limb them and stack them like, like that all the way up inside these tents.
So in case it did rain, we weren't going to get caught in, you know, whether, you know,
plants getting wet. Did you do a lot of sun drying? No, it was all, we hung ropes between
trees and just hung them in there. And it was still in the nineties or eighties in the day at
night, it would drop up, up where we were growing. We were growing at about 4,500 feet. So it, at
night it would cool down, but in the day this, you know, it was really nice. Plus we were growing in
our main garden was in an East West situation. So the sun, when it came up, it hit very early
and it went almost to the end of, of the night because it did drop below the Canyon edge at each
end. But one of our gardens was in a North South section. It only got seven hours or eight hours
of direct sunlight at max. And still the plants grew perfectly and beautifully, didn't make a
difference. But the East West gardens, you know, they got 10, 11 hours of direct sunlight were
awesome. Yeah. They grew much bigger plants, much taller, fuller. When did the Mexicans
naturally finish? Like when was your harvest time? When were they ripe those first few years for you?
October. October. Yeah. The Colombian, you passed a photo by there earlier.
It was, it was, it was snowing on the rim above us on Thanksgiving. And that's our tent.
One of them. Yeah. And there's some, the tent. Yeah, there it is. Right in there. Well hidden. That was a,
that was the North South garden. We called the Anasazi. There's the hall of the mountain King.
You cannot, you know, that kept hikers out. Yeah. The Colombian, the Colombian, we didn't know about
these things about finishing and how long they would take. And it was crazy because it was,
they were the size of my little fingertip, you know, the buds and it was Thanksgiving and snowing
above us. So we didn't grow any more Colombian after that first year.
I think, was it by our, anyway, there's this famous, there's this famous list of seeds
that's been attributed to Sam or it's been attributed to others or whatever. And it had a
bunch of, you know, hazes and skunks and different things like that. But what was interesting about it
is it was organized by month that it finished. And there was only three or four things that
finished in October. There was probably 10 things that finished in November. And then there was like
25 things that were December or January, which is like a polar opposite today. Yeah. Well,
Rob was growing in Ben Lomond just above Santa Cruz in the Redwoods there. And he, you know,
the temperatures were very Mediterranean in a sense, you know, it would be cool. Yeah.
Back, I wanted to jump forward to a question when you were talking about Mendocino and up north,
did you ever, do you know where Redway is? Yeah. A hundred percent. Yeah. Southern Humboldt. Yes.
Because I met my Columbian friend and future partner in many escapades at the country tavern
there in 1972. And a guy from Scottsdale owned the country tavern and he also had his own chemist and
he produced millions and millions of hits of acid. That's amazing. When we went into that
tavern the first time, half the people were tripping and it was just, wow. It was like
amazing. But my Columbian friend who I just met there, he took me on a hike down towards
Shelter Cove. Shelter Cove was just five houses then that were abandoned because it was a,
someone tried to do a subdivision there and it didn't work. So as we hiked down, we went off
into the woods cause he knew about a few plants. And I saw my first plants over there that were
growing. They were individual holes in between the redwoods, like where there was a spot of sun
shooting down in. And it was just this beautiful black rich soil. And their plants were probably
six or seven feet tall. So I was like, wow, that's cool. But yeah, that's my part of the country.
I've, I moved to Mendocino County in 1998 and I've lived there since. So Southern Humboldt,
Humboldt in general, Mendocino, Lake, all those areas. That's kind of like my stomping grounds.
And yeah. And, you know, like, like you were saying with LSD or whatever else,
you know, there was back then it was remote. It was mountainous. You could get, you know,
there wasn't very many people. Your worries up there were hunters and loggers. But lots of people
went up there to kind of get away from things. Some people grew weeds, some people did other
things, but it was that isolation and that, and that being kind of out in the middle of nowhere.
Ville, that was kind of. I have no idea. I have no idea how this guy from Scottsdale found Redway,
but that he bought the tavern there and he was living nearby and his chemist was somewhere
nearby out in the woods. And yeah, it was a interesting place. And that's where my Colombian
friend was, Gerardo. So he was on a student visa, but he overstayed an extra eight years.
So yeah, he, he spoke, he learned English simultaneously with Spanish in Colombia and
Cali since he was five years old. So he spoke such perfect English that later in life, when we were,
our big, big bust happened. He was interviewed by FBI agents. He corrected their spelling twice.
Because they didn't know how to spell the words that they were using. So it was pretty funny.
Yeah. You know, another thought I had, you met, you mentioned, you know, Howard Marks's book,
Mr. Nice, and how your friend kind of blew him out of the water. I remember a long time ago when I
read his autobiography, that he said that basically his autobiography was full of people
that had been busted and that some of the coolest and biggest people that he interacted with had
never gotten in trouble. So therefore you weren't going to hear anything about them in his book,
because they had skated through and nobody knew about them and he wasn't about to give any tips
or ideas. So he said his book was essentially a collection of people that had gotten in trouble
and that there was many who didn't and they were invisible.
Well, I can dig it. My friend who broke his hip and was our pilot friend, he never got busted.
And he gave my UK partner the go ahead that he would be willing to let him write a book about him
and interview him. So he's excited about that. But I said to him,
you're going to have to follow this guy because he's all over the world still. Now he's in the
hospital in Anchorage. So you could probably get some weeks of talk with him. But he still goes to
Hong Kong and Portugal. And I mean, the guy is he's 75. And he got his pilot's license when he
was 15 before he could drive a car. And we figured it out once he stopped keeping a logbook
at 10,000 hours. And he said that most TWA pilots never hit 10,000 hours. Yeah, but he literally
lives in his plane. And then when he went to Alaska and bought a gold mine, the only way to get
to it was to fly in and out. So and as you know, in Alaska, everyone uses planes like cars, you
know, if you live way out in the woods. So he he owned the airport once in a town that I lived in.
And he's just a legend. But you're right. No one really knew about him. Just like Mr. Nice's
Howard Marks friends, because he got into Afghanistan in the late 60s. He was importing
lapis, the deep blue stone that's highly valued in Europe. And that led to hashish.
And he was just sending home a few pounds rolled up in Afghani rugs. He would just ship them. And
they would get through back then they weren't even using dogs really to check stuff in the late 60s
or 1970. Then his friends slowly, you know, move to freighters. And they were sending freighters.
But when the Soviets took over, he couldn't go to Afghanistan any longer. So he moved over to
Peshawar in Pakistan. And Peshawar now is known as the terrorist capital. I mean, that's where
all the terrorists hang out. But he would he was active over there. Gosh, I don't know.
I like I said, last time I met him in 85 in in he had a houseboat in Sausalito. And I met him there.
And he was visibly shaking because he was so excited about the 60 ton barge that they were
going to pull across the universe, which they did more than awesome. That is so awesome.
Wow. Yep. Okay. Now, love it. And they would go to Canada. Canada had
he said they had only like 1000, not even 1000, a few hundred agents in involved in drugs. So
all those West Coast places above Juneau in Alaska in that were perfect. I mean, in Canada,
along the coastline, the cash was more than yeah. So Canada has much more of a hashish culture than
America did because of that importing. And you know, I think not only that, but it was like
the penalties if you got caught in Canada, were far less than the American ones. It's right.
Right. And once it reached there, it would get him exported over to the US. Yeah. And this guy,
he had a passport he paid $10,000 for from the UK in like 1969 or something. And it was a real
passport that he was able to have it fixed with his name on it. That's awesome. And his photo.
And he would walk across the border to Canada, and then fly from Canada around the world as a
British citizen. When he was going to Afghanistan and Pakistan, he wasn't an American. He was
British. So and then he'd fly back to Canada and walk across the border into Washington
and be and then go back to his normal life over here. Man after my own heart.
He also had one of the first phone scramblers I've ever seen. He bought it from a company in
Amsterdam, and you held it up to the phone in the little rubber cups went over each end. And then
you talk to the back of it. And yeah, it was used and stuff like that, you know, by 1970, 1971.
Very security conscience, fella. Very smart. Yep. Wow, that's fascinating. So so I was gonna say,
we've kind of wandered off the mad jag part, but there's one part that like,
totally, totally enthralled me with the whole story. And it was about not just about the wizard
robes or any of that, because I find that so amazing, like the pictures of you guys with
wearing the wizard robes and being very, you know, serious about all this, but how well you
treated the land and how you respected the land and the culture that came before. And in a lot
of your writings, you talk about even finding ancient like the ancient petroglyphs, but also
some items and stuff that you guys would not take, you'd leave it there, because that's where it was.
And, and, and leaving nothing, not even footprints behind. So I was wondering if you could talk a
little bit about the spiritual aspect of magic. Well, when we first started exploring it, I started
from the bottom up, where it flowed into another canyon, which flowed into another canyon. And
that's where I first met a mountain lion, I'm pretty sure it was it wasn't a jaguar. But we
came up with the term, you know, mad jag that I had come upon, because it was screeching at me in
the dark when I was trying to go to sleep. And that canyon, when we got further up the canyon,
and found these spots, we started finding boulders just covered with pictograph, I mean,
petroglyphs. And in 15 minutes, that rock that you had a photo of, let's see, I'm gonna try to find
this. Yeah, we had, we had a projectile point and all these pieces of pottery. And we just left them
there like a little, little shrine or altar. Yeah, we also found a cave across from our garden.
The first year where I was working with a tall guy. And in this cave was a, those are Columbians
there. This is the Columbian? Yeah, those are all the ones that's as big as they got. This was
close to Thanksgiving, this photo. That's wild. They, they grew huge, but they, they just,
they needed to get into December in the tropical. Let's see, where's the petroglyphs here?
There we go. Beautiful. And we, we did these costumes and things thinking that someday we
would do a movie, you know, and that's why we're doing this. And here's the, I still have this
little arrowhead here, but we left all the pottery behind. And, and we found a cave across from
near our first garden that had an arrow shaft in it. It had a, a single yucca fiber
moccasin that the ancient people, you know, that made out of yucca fiber. And they were like,
about half inch thick and had been chewed up a lot by a rat, but you know, they were obviously
in this, this cave. So we just left them there as a little museum. We, we put them all on a rock
together. I haven't made it back to it. I'd love to, I'd love to go back to it, but we,
um, the one thing we didn't do, which I regret, but it could still happen was take all of our
old hoses out of the Canyon and the pump. They're still there. Yeah. Oh my God. Still there.
Oh yeah. They're tucked under the tree. We went back in the nineties and the bear had pulled a
bunch of them out. So we reburied them and pushed them back under. Um, and the pump got
hiked out ultimately by someone who wanted to use it. And that's funny. This guy was a young
stallion, man. He's just strapped that sucker on a single pack frame and hiked it out himself.
And we had taken it in two of us on a pole, you know, between us, but he, he just hiked it out.
Yeah. So if you can get it out, you can have it. What year did that happen? And he knew you guys
before, and you guys told him about the pump existing. He was this tall guys. Okay. That
makes sense. Yeah. So, um, he, he went in and he worked, he came down, I think at harvest time
and helped us a bit. He since left the planet though, he was much younger than all of us, but
he, he lived a rough and tumble life, you know, and he, yep. He, uh, didn't make it, but it's,
it's, um, the spiritual aspect I've slept right where he's sitting here a few times next to the
creek and listen to it flowing by at night. It was the most fabulous thing in the, in talking
about dark skies in 19, you know, late seventies, the dark skies in Northern Arizona were extensive.
Um, Flagstaff was the nearest place. And it, I've, um, I spent 400 days out of my life in the bottom
of this Canyon and over a year of my life. And it's, it's just, you know, it became like my
second home in a way I can imagine five years. We grew for five years in this Canyon. And, um,
since then it's been just quiet. I, we, every once in a while, I'll go back and go out on the rim
and look down in, and, um, more people are driving in four wheel drives and razors and little
four by side by side vehicles. You know, they're going out on all these Jeep trails and that,
but they don't know what's down below because they're not going to get out and hike down 1600
feet, um, just on a hunch and get down there. And they wouldn't find these alluvial plateaus.
Just to buried, you know, so well, magical place. Yeah. 90, 90 feet above the Creek.
You wouldn't, there's no trail that would even remotely bump into it. So yeah. Yeah. It was a
special place still is. Um, I went back there four years ago looking for this trail that a rancher
had made years ago that came down not far from this original garden. And I couldn't find the
trailhead again. It had grown over so much in 10 years that when I was there last hunted all over
man for hours and hours. And I know where it goes down, but I just couldn't find the trailhead. So
I'm going to go back. It's strange. It was, it's in a forest fire area that has still not been
reopened. And after a fire that was over a year and a half ago, and I'm going to go talk to the
forest service. I want to find out why. And I have a feeling why is that it's not about landslides
or people getting hurt. It's exposed so many architecture, archeological spots from the
trees burning. And there's all this that there, I think they're afraid of people going out there
and plundering spots. Yeah. A Canyon that was more used and where the guys from Jerome were
using it. Um, I've seen skulls just laying on the surface where people had dug to burial sites,
you know, ancient burial sites. It's just sad, but, um, it goes on. Yeah. Raiders of the lost
art. They did an article in Tempe in the early eighties about guys who would go out and just
look for burial sites and dig them up. Oh, wow. And one of them I knew, and he got busted,
got five years in prison, um, because of, you know, each and every.
That's what happens. I mean, ancient grave robbing is something that's been going on for a long,
long time and they get, they get sold on the private market to collectors and, you know,
the origin of, you know, all that it's, it's definitely a, I mean, it's a shame that it
happens, but it seems like it goes on anywhere. There's ancient humanity that existed.
Oh yeah. Egypt. Egypt would be the, one of the primary sources. Sure. Yeah. Yeah.
So I don't know. I mean, we can, this conversation could likely go in a million
different directions. Yeah. I have to tell him this is going to be like a nine parter.
It would probably be more than just this one part because we can't touch on everything. But
one of the things I do want to touch on is that one, one thing that's like really interesting
to Matt and I ourselves is that, um, you know, some of these, you know, we got a little off
topic on Hayes and, you know, and, but some of this stuff with Hayes and skunk one,
and some of these American strains, a lot of us younger folk, our first like legitimate history
on them that we know of comes from when they made their way over to Holland. Right. And that's when
they kind of became famous and started getting bread with and started getting sold where people
could hear about them. And then you have people like Rob and Sam and stuff like that who tell
their story, but it's very, you know, with historians or whatever, it's always cool to get
a different perspective from someone, you know, an alternate source from the same era.
Right. And you were talking before about how for a minute there, or for a year or two, you were
Sam and Rob's biggest customer, right. Yep. In the sense that you bought, you bought something
like, if I remember correctly off the top of my head, something like 3000 skunk one seeds.
And $500. Yep. Was that 1978 or 1979? Something like that? You said 79, 80. And on the back of
this, if you look at it up close, it says that these were bred for the 1980 in 1980 for the
1981 season. Do you still have this? Yeah. So you still have that? Yeah. Oh, yeah. And I was
telling Rahul yesterday, some of the loads we got from the cartel in Mexico at a certain point in
1984, roughly 82 to 84. We would get, we moved our first load so quickly that they sent us another
load that wasn't meant for us. It had labels in it from someone in California. And I've got two
or three of these labels. I know you'd like to have them. And I'd be glad to send them. Sam,
one of them too. Sam collects. Yeah, he has great collections. This one, this one was,
it was a Santa Claus in a wagon pulled by horses. It was in a black, it's a black and white label.
And then we got another one, a different time. There was someone else's load, but because we
were moving them faster, they just sent it to us. And it was a raccoon on the label and it was from
Northern California. And yeah, it was, it was funny, but these are precious little mementos.
And I went to Amsterdam in 1969, right out of high school. I went on seven weeks to Europe
with a friend and that's the first place I tried to get high. I was at the club Paradiso and I
couldn't, I didn't smoke cigarettes. So I took a big hit of, of something and I coughed my lungs.
I couldn't even get it in deep enough to get it. But to give you an idea of this guy was selling
a pound of, of Turkish weed for $15. It was in a shoe box. A shoe box full was 15 bucks. And I had
idea. Do you think it was like a Turkish ham? Yeah, it was probably, you know, like bagweed
from Turkey. It was dark brown. It didn't look good. But I bought my first chunk of hash and I
actually smuggled it back in 1969. I was nervous as heck. I didn't actually get high until later
in 69 when I went to college. That was the first time. And I don't know if I had that hash still
then or not, but Denver in 1969 had everything, you know, Panama red, Colombian, Mexican,
every sort of acid you could possibly want was being sold at on the Hill in Boulder. So all you
have to do is drive over to Boulder and hang out. And was it called Hippy Hill back then?
Hmm. It was just called the Hill. Just called the Hill in Boulder. Yeah. It was in the next is near
the university, but it was this stretch and it's still really works. Yeah. There's a bookstore at
the top where I actually saw Ellen Ginsberg reading the book. It was called Brilligworks and
Tulagi on the Hill is still there. It's a place where they have live music. It's a bar
with live music. I saw Lightnin Hopkins there and a few other amazing people. So wild.
Yeah. And it opened and I think I have a photo of it in my Chronicles. I think in 64 it opened.
Yeah. I mean, I was really a kid then, but yeah. So the what, what channel are we on now?
Oh, yeah. I mean, it's funny. So when I went, when I was going to Boulder in the nineties,
it, that Hill was still a place that you could go and buy weed and acid. It had transformed and it
was called, it was called Hippy Hill. Nice. Right then. And it was still a spot that you could go
and yeah, you could get obviously the, the, the, you know, the type of weed had changed,
but the ability to go there and meet someone and score a bag of weed and, you know, the cops sort
of tolerated it and tolerated a little bit of trade going on there or whatever. So it's,
I didn't realize how early that had started because at that point, by the time that I had
been going which was the mid nineties, late nineties, it would have been ongoing that then
for 30 some years. Right. But what the, the thread we were on is I would love to know,
and I'm sure Matt would too, what Rob or Sam told you about their skunk one lines,
like, you know, aside from the descriptions and stuff like that, like what they told you about
what was in them or why they were excited about them, what got you excited about them to buy so
many. And then what your experience was like actually growing them in terms of like what they
grew, like what they smelled like, were they superior to the Mexicans you were growing?
Anything like that would be probably wonderful to chat about.
Well, I met Rob through high times. He was, he wrote articles a few and at the end of the article,
he always put something like, if you want to, if you're interested in any of the things I wrote
about or these seeds, you can contact me through the magazine. So I wrote a letter to high times
to Rob and I put my phone number in there and he called me up and that's how we hooked up because
the first year I grew skunk, I had already had two years, actually three years of growing before
that. But the year before I made enough money that I could afford, when I saw and heard his
description and other people's of skunk number one, I just went, this is what I want to grow,
something that has a reputation and these guys are breeders. He put in a book on botany for
Christ's sake. So he, I said, yeah, I want to get 3000 seeds. There were two bucks a piece and he
knocked it down to 175 and he flew to Phoenix, deliver them to me because you're not going to
put that in the mail back then. And what, put 5500 in the mail? No. So he flew it. We met at the
airport, sky Harbor, drove him up to Cottonwood where I lived. He stayed a few days and I gave
him 5500 in cash and he was super happy. When he came up, he had this little zip case that he
pulled out of his jacket and he had pre-rolled joints of Thai, of Colombian, of O'Hagan, of skunk
number one and he was standing there and he gave me one hit of something in my living room. And I
was laying on the floor after that. And he was just standing there talking away, smoking the rest of
the whole joint. And he said, oh, but you got to try this time strain. And I've never, my friend
in Scottsdale who, I mean, in Tempe, who was the dealer, he could smoke like that. My Colombian
friend for sure. He started smoking when he was seven in Cali, Columbia. But my friend in Tempe,
he would roll 10 hash joints, pin joints, just crumbled up hash and smoke them in a day's time
in a hundred degree driving a tractor. That was his motivation. Just chain smoke hash joints.
And Rob was pretty much like that. So I don't remember him describing to me what skunk was like.
It was what I read in high times that it just, this skunky smell and it was going to be also
have some exotic strains in it. The original skunk number one didn't have Indian, you know,
the Kerala India in it at all. It was just three countries, I think, right?
Colombian, Mexican, Afghan.
Yep. It was just those three. And I had smoked each of those individually, but the fact that
this was a hybrid that was so potent and everything, I don't know what I had read.
I have all those old high times magazines. I have the first high times. I have the first black belt
magazine. I collect all kinds of weird shit. I love that too.
Yeah. And memorabilia. We'll get into that. I'll send you some things. You just let me know.
But the Afghani number one, I did get a few from him as a gift, I think from buying all the skunk.
And it's funny because this says Afghani Hindu Kush has she seeds. I noticed his label. And yet
on the back, he says, this is skunk number one. And I have one of these envelopes with
Afghani number one. Yeah. So it's kind of, you know, and he also has in letters here extra early.
So yeah, I was reading it. It actually is a description for a pure Afghani is what it is.
Like the whole thing is a description for a pure unadulterated Afghani. But then it says skunk one.
Right. These envelopes had two giant horse caps with 50 seeds in each one. So there were 100
seeds in two big gel. I mean, cellulose caps. Yeah. He'd get 50 seeds in each one. And I don't
know what happened to the many, many of these very different people over the years. One of
I gave him one in my chair. I think my my UK partner still has several.
I don't know how else to Rob came down to our garden once. And that's when he said he was
amazed that we could grow out of dirt. Yeah. Never seen Arizona plants. I don't think before.
And we averaged six point eight ounces across our entire garden per plant, which roughly almost a
half a pound per plant, which growing in the dirt. Yeah. He said that he was used to two,
three, four pound plants in northern California, you know, up in that black soil. But
well, there's a there's a there's a volume, you know, thing to like plant numbers.
And so in northern California, I mean, some people went crazy, but a lot of times people tried to
maximize how much they could get per plant to not get, you know, so if they did get in trouble
in northern California, it would be for less plants. That was a big thing. So it's way,
way easier. And I think you get better weed growing up six or seven or eight ounce plant
versus a four or five or six pound plant. But numbers did play a role, at least in northern
California, where I'm from. Well, we were in very cold water. Did they what what were the
type of aromas that you got off the skunk one that first year you grew? It it was very it was
very skunky. No. You know, the smell of a skunk when you drive over it on the highway. It was
that exact. No, it we were we were stupefied by it. Actually, we were when this is incredible.
And it didn't smell like that growing so much. But when you when it was harvested, the flowers
dried and you crush, you know, a flower and it was skunk smell. And it was pretty damn potent.
We rolled a joint once and went to this topless club called the highlighter that we liked in
Phoenix. And one of the two of the dancers, we went in the ladies bathroom with two of the dancers,
and we each had one puff. That's all before we got busted by another dancer who came in and was
in charge at night, said, you guys have to get out of here. And so we went and sat down. The ladies,
I think they had one puff each more. It was they were these were New York needles, we call them or
pin joints where you had to really, you know, just to get a hit. And we were sitting there and they
came out of the bathroom. They walked around the bar. They're laughing and they smiled at us.
And then they walked right into a table, knocked it over. All the drinks went over. They fell
on the ground themselves. And we were just sitting there laughing. They they had never
been that high in their life. And we found out later that they were scared almost. But
but, you know, in 1980 or 81, there was, you know, we'd already smoked this since a meal from Santa
Barbara that was very piney. And I and there was Thai weed around and other things. But for some
reason, this thing packed a punch, really quite a punch. And I don't know how people would rate it
today compared to all these, you know, chem dogs and and all the other varieties that people bred
up to 35 percent THC or whatever they're at now. But as you know, the entourage effect is what
counts the total package, you know, the terpenes, the bioflavonoids, everything, everything. Someone
said that the test on an original Afghani, I mean, skunk number one was it was only like 14 percent
or 15 percent THC. Yeah. Most of the stuff I like falls in between eight to 18. Yeah. So all the other
ingredients, the terpenes, perhaps that skunky terpene
profile and other things really added up. It's really nice to have another account that isn't
from Rob or Sam about skunk one having that same smell even back then, because it's been heavily
debated for a long time whether that was true that skunk one had that smell or if it never had.
Yeah. Yeah. Because the stuff that got sold in Europe, it sounds like Rob and Sam or maybe Sam
only kept breeding away from that aroma. And so eventually it became very floral, very citrus,
maybe a little cheese, maybe some grapes. But people have been hunting for that skunky smell
in skunk one seeds ever since. And yet it seems like it existed in the 70s and the early 80s,
and then it kind of went away. And he maybe they successfully bred it out of the line entirely
because people have really hunted through skunk one, trying to find recessives that are a throwback
to what you just described. Hey, not so. So I moved out to NorCal to grow for a season.
And it was 1985. And when I first arrived in Ukiah, I had taken a Greyhound bus and my
instructions were to meet my new partners at the laundromat, which was near the airport and the
bus station, I guess. I'm not sure that that part's a little fuzzy, but I'll never forget,
you know, arriving in Ukiah, getting off the bus and as I'm walking towards the laundromat,
you know, following the instructions I'd been given, the entire town smelled like skunk.
The entire town. I mean, everywhere I walked and I had to wait for a couple of hours. So after a
while, I got bored of standing around waiting for my buddy to drive down off the mountain and, you
know, pick me up. So I walked around a little bit. The whole town smelled just like, you know,
roadkill. You know, people confuse the rotting flesh roadkill part with the look when a skunk
gets hit on the side of the road, you don't smell anything but the skunk, right? It's not about
rotting anything. It's just that sulfurous, you know, stink.
It's just the scent that's been smashed. Yeah.
Yeah. I live about 15 minutes from, I can be in Ukiah in about 15 minutes from my house.
Oh, that's beautiful.
So you said 85? That's the perfect...
What part of... where did you grow that first year?
Do you remember what part of Mendocino you grew in? Do you remember where you were?
1985 was the influx, like the major, major influx of Indicas into that region. I mean,
there are, of course, there were some, you know, making their way bits and pieces throughout the
70s and whatnot. But 85 was like the smash year for Indicas, right? Out in that area. So it makes
sense a shitload of skunk would be in that town.
You know, the Indicas that I grew in, in 85,
and 82 were from NorCal, from Ukiah and, you know, the towns around there.
And they were picked up by a friend of mine who was hitchhiking around there for like two years.
And every time he'd, you know, get picked up, he would offer to, you know, would you like,
hey, I've got some weed, do you want to smoke one? And everybody always said yes. But they said,
you know, let's not smoke yours here, go in the glove compartment. And let's smoke some of mine.
And he'd pull out the bag and here you roll it and we'll smoke it. And as he rolled,
there were always a few seeds in there. And he'd ask him if he could keep them.
Yeah.
So my guy.
Yeah. I mean, my first interaction with Indica was, you know, Christmas 81. He came back from
California to visit and he had a collection of like six different Afghanis.
Wow.
And a story to go with each one. Like there was one that he called Ranger Weed. And he'd smoke
this weed with a forest ranger, like this guy had. And it was, I swear, it was what I think
where Afghani number one came from. It was a very coarse, you know, Afghani with kind of a
candelabra style, you know. There was another one he called Plain Weed. And this was on his way home.
At SFO, he was walking through the parking lot and there's a guy sitting in a Corvette,
convertible smoking weed. Right. And he walked up and he gives him the look, you know, and
I don't know if he held up his finger like, hey, can we smoke? And the guy invited him to join him
in the car. And, you know, he got a couple of seeds out of that encounter also. That turned
out to be an F1 tie Afghani hybrid. Which was just amazing. And I knew what exactly what it was
because I had grown pure tie the year before. Yeah. Right. So I had these pure Afghanis and I
had this, I had pure tie the year before. And this stuff was just right in the middle. It was a 50,
50 cross. And, you know, I used to sit there and make notes about, you know, I'd sit and smoke it
and write down the effects and the taste and compare it with other stuff. And just amazing.
Notebooks, right? Yeah. That's amazing. I do. Yeah. When you first told me that you've kept
these notebooks, like on sense and stuff, I was like, man, this guy's gonna be my best friend.
I'm telling you, this is amazing. Like, it's just, it's only a certain type of people that really get
this far into weed, I think. And a lot of us think it has something to do with being on the spectrum,
you know, because we get so far into something so many people are just like, it's just weed,
smoke it. And we're like, so much more. One of the, one of the cool parts about doing this,
these chats that Matt and I do is like the realization that like the vast majority of
our history is oral, right? It's very little of it is very little of it is written down,
you know, and as people age, it was evidence, right? Yeah, it was evidence. And then so there's
all these cool stories out there and there's all these bits and pieces, like Matt had mentioned,
there was great debate, like, was Sam and Rob lying about how skunky it was in the beginning.
And, you know, because by the time they took skunk one to Amsterdam, it was fruity and citrusy and
floral and all that. And so, you know, these, these stories and stuff from from the region and
what things were like, is a big deal. Because now people look at me, and, you know, I'm only in my
mid 40s, you know, but people think I'm old as fuck. And like, they want to hear like my stories
from the 90s. But your guys's stories from the 70s and 80s are like a full generation before that.
These old Mad Jag notebooks. Yep. Oh, my God, that's amazing. And your handwriting is so much
better than mine. It's just amazing that I live with the best friends and everything. Yep.
They made it through the busts like the butt like when you guys did get busted, they didn't go after
the notebooks and stuff. Not so those aphes came in and in like 1980, 81, not 85. And I grew I grew
mine in 81 and 82. And I was the only one in pretty practical, you know, that anybody in I knew
that had this stuff, right? Yeah, it that year, the very next year,
all of my friends had their own aphe, right that they've gotten from different sources from
wherever, you know, I mean, 83. Everybody had it, it was making its way around the country,
probably through deadhead, you know, dead shows and stuff like that. Let me ask you a question
about that, then a lot of the old heads have said that, you know, have told me that like,
basically, like Mendocino and humble, it was almost pure sativa. And people really like the
buzz and the flavor and the effect. And they said, one of the big things that drove Indica's
popularity was when in 81, when they started flying helicopters in my neck of the woods,
right, getting something that would finish in September or early October was a lot safer than
something that took till Thanksgiving and was this giant thing, right? Yeah. And so that started
spreading it because police pressure and hiding it and all that became more important. Indica's
were shorter and squatter. But a lot of people told me that they didn't like the buzz as much.
Maybe you could, could you talk for a minute about your experiences versus the Mexicans and the Ties
and the Colombians and all those you were growing versus like smoking Indica's at first and like
what the differences were and what your preferences were? Yeah, you know, I mean,
and today, what people think of as Indica, usually is some sort of hybrid.
Because there were pure Indica's back then that had a very sedative effect without making your
brain fuzzy. Right? I mean, it was calming. Yeah, yeah, calming and peaceful and kind of dreamy,
but it didn't give you that, you know, that, that, that just, you know, the count what we,
you know, couch lock is not just a body effect. It's a stunned mental effect, right? Where your
brain just kind of seizes up, you know, it's like distortion on a guitar. Exactly. So you don't have
to have that to have that body effect. And most of what we experienced today, with that distortion,
with that fuzz comes, you know, it's usually got a lot of power to it. Right? So some of these pure
aphes would have would have actually been just kind of this just slows it down. Right? Peaceful,
very high, amazing taste, right? Just like just like pure hash tasted exactly like hash. You know,
and at its best, right? But without that, that that inability to think you might be slowed down,
but you could still, you know, follow a train of thought, and eventually get there. But with and I
think that, you know, skunk as it originally existed before Sam got it and, and hybridized it
and use the name for the new thing that he created, which was no longer what it what it
was named after. Yeah. If anybody can follow that. Right? Blueberry is the same to me. It's
exactly the same. I want to let you finish your thought. But I'm gonna I'm gonna come back to that
to a part of what you just said in a moment. But but please finish your thought. So I mean,
you know, skunk was very, was very Afghani dominant, back when it first came out, and it was,
it hits you like, like a like a sledgehammer, you know, mentally, it just stunned you. You couldn't
think you were just you were just seized up. And I think that, you know, what we think about as
Afghanis these days, Afis, Indicas, whatever, you know, the chem line is definitely, you know,
got hybridization going there with some kind of skunk, which gives it, you know, a combination
that the extra power and the mental kind of sledgehammer that, you know, a lot of people like.
So contrasting, you know, you, you went into this with talking about what people used to grow up
there in the mountains. And as you're as you're talking about it, I was picturing Jim Richardson's
book, you know, sensimilla flowers. Right. And the garden that he photographed in there and took it
through the the phases of fluorescence, and documented it just so beautifully.
You know, I first saw that book in I guess, 82 or 83. My buddy had brought it back for me and
said that it was on every coffee table in Northern California.
It had the Big Sur, Holyweed and Dolores and all kinds of special plants in there that weren't
labeled. And a lot of people don't know that that that's the original Big Sur, Holyweed and the
Tripweed. Yeah. NorCal had had spent years, you know, refining these imported sativa lines
to turn them into things that would finish in the season that they had there. And, you know,
selective breeding for quality and yield and, and, and finish time, you know, things that would work
in the in the environment you had there. And it was, you know, you had you'd created something
just as just as special as anything from Hawaii, right, as unique and special. And those those
lines, I think the last thing that we, you know, on the market today, if somebody would go out and
look for seeds that they could grow that would be similar to that, or would at least give them,
you know, a hint of what it used to be would be if they could find a good early pearl.
Yeah, that's what's up. Right? Because you can still taste the Mexican in there. And the effects
still have that. It's still there. Yes, there's an affee thrown in there and affee or two and
the mixture of, you know, different sativas. But but the sweet, Neville called it the Awoken Zing.
Right. And it's it's a, you know, when grown as a sensimilla by a by a gardener who loves what
he's doing, you know, small numbers and pampered and cared for. It's, it's so tasty and delicious
that there's hardly anything that can come close. Yeah, I'm a sucker for the silver pearl still.
But I, you know, I really want early girl because that's one that I've never ran. But early Pearl
was a big favorite in San Diego to amazing. Yeah. So those early girl and Pollyanna were,
you know, from that that era and from that region. And they were some of the some of those
early hybrids when when the first affee showed up and they said, well, wow, this is the greatest
thing ever. You know, can you imagine growing a couple of these things in your garden and never
seeing anything like it and falling in love with the hash? And the first thing you're going to do
is you're going to say, I'm going to take this new thing, which is the best thing ever
and cross it with the best thing that that I've spent the last 10 years making.
Yeah. Right. That's exactly the first thing you're going to do. Right. Yep. And that's
in Mendo. You kind of have till Halloween or maybe the first week of November if you get lucky
of of a good chance of reasonably good weather and not too much rain.
And then the cold and the rain and the weather starts to turn. So breeding, breeding and Mendo
and Humboldt, you know, you kind of have to have some Halloween weed at the latest, maybe some
early November. But you really can't like trying to push things full outside till Thanksgiving.
It gets really dicey. Yeah, very dicey. Real quick, guys. So we've made it through episode one
because we're already hitting the two hour mark and it makes me stop at two hours. So I want to
get in any kind of plug. You guys want to get in before the end of it. And I definitely want to do
an episode two if you guys are up for it next week or whenever it's convenient for you, both of
you. That would be amazing. Yeah. Thumbs up. Yeah, I've I've enjoyed chatting today. Amazing. Amazing.
Actually, it's been really cool. I hope that it can continue maybe even off channel a bit.
There's a million things I could talk about. I'm intrigued at all of the memorabilia for sure.
And the experience I used to drool. I mean, Sam used to post on overgrown the breeders breed on,
you know, the breeder segment back then in the forums. A lot of those old school
pictures and stuff like that and art that would get made with certain kinds of people's weed.
And that that whole like sort of like pre marketing of anonymous growers was super neat.
And just so, yeah, there's a million directions we could go. But as Matt said, we only have four
minutes before it'll cut us off. So we have you at Mad Jack dot com. Is there anything else you'd
like to talk about before we're wrapping up anywhere people can contact you or get ahold
of you or any of it? What do we have here? This is beer. This year's. It's a smaller one. It's
Santa Marta Gold crossed with Acapulco Gold. And it's pretty much a good friend of mine in
California made the F1 and it's it's gotten good reviews. What's the name?
What do you call it, Jim? Oh, well, I had a couple of people test it that I trust that smoke all day
long. They live in Sedona. And I said, well, what is it on a scale of 10? And they said nine point
three. I said, well, good. I call it nine point three. That's a big name. Yeah. So instead of
some fancy, you know, airplane cookies or whatever. I love it. Yeah. The next week have
any questions you have. You could have them ready. I have. Yeah, I did my own little free.
No, free screen. We've covered quite a bit of free flowing thing. And so it can head off in
all kinds of different directions. And sometimes we get to pick up on threads of things we hear
and pull on that thread and hear more. And other times there's definitely things we didn't pull on
that I would love to in the future. So. And Raho, do you have anything you want to get in?
Yeah, I'd just like to say, you know, first of all, big, big props for your discord channel.
No, thank you. Thank you. You know, you guys threw us in there to kind of organize and prepare
for this meeting and your community there is great. Good people, man. We've been lucky.
Good people, very responsive and, you know, a lot of good information and knowledge up there. So
just props, props to that. And thank you for for letting us be part of that. I'm not besides that
nothing. You know, I'm just into this for the love and I'm looking forward to doing it the next time.
So, yeah, well, I appreciate it. I appreciate the hell out of both of you for your time,
all the love you've put into cannabis. I mean, it's you guys are the reason that we are here
digging into the past while we're why we are doing what we're doing. So thank you for laying
that foundation for us. I truly mean that. And I can say from myself, while I love talking about
weed with different people, I'm leaving this conversation particularly excited. Yeah, I mean,
I had a real good time chatting about this. So it was very enjoyable. Thank you both very much for
your time. Me, too. Let's make the people out there jealous and just say, let's keep talking
after we finish the recording. You got it. All right. All right. I'm going to start the
outro and then I'm going to remove us from the thing. But after it's done recording,
I'll pop us back in. Got it. OK, I'm here. All right. All right. Thank you, everyone.
That's a good guy, dude. Persuade from up north or kind of on it.
