Ready, go!
Welcome to Breeder Cinecant.
There he is!
We are here.
How you doing, bud? Fantastic.
Let's just start rolling, man.
Alright, so this is the first edition of our new thing.
I don't know where we want to begin.
I thought maybe this thing would be good to talk about,
like some seed bank history.
Yeah.
Obviously, like now, there's a lot of stuff that's kind of coming out of the woodwork
where people are talking about a lot of famous old cuts from the 80s and 90s,
seed lines and all that.
And I thought that there was a bunch of people that didn't,
maybe didn't know some of the history behind how all that occurred.
And so, obviously, since it's weed history, it's not entirely exact,
but this is, everything we're going to talk about is the best that we know, right?
Yeah.
So, there could be some different information, not everything could be entirely correct,
but we're going to give it our best shot to give you what we think and what we know
and all that, right?
That is correct.
So, that's the word.
So, the reason why we wanted to start with like sort of Neville and sort of Holland history,
that's not where like seed history started, obviously.
Like there was stuff going on in California, there was Sacred,
there was plenty of private breeders.
But in Holland, that was sort of the first place where you could literally be a nobody
and just send them money and get seeds, right?
Yeah.
Kind of in California, at least from my knowledge and experience,
you kind of had to know somebody, you kind of had to be connected a little bit.
You know, you had to be within certain circles.
For instance, you know, I grew up in the Midwest and there was no access to seeds,
there was no culture or anything like that.
So, the only places that we knew how to get weed were Dead Shows and Holland.
And so, you could mail order from Holland, you could fly out there and buy them direct
and kind of try to bring them back yourself.
So, to me, that's kind of where like modern weed history, as far as like most people's access to it, begins.
Yeah.
If you were in certain circles, if you were in the Pacific Northwest, I mean, you know,
obviously, it starts before that, but Neville put an ad in High Times in 84 or so,
and that started what Matt's holding up right now is his 85 catalog.
And because Holland's laws had changed then,
they were sort of the first place that could like really make seeds available to everybody, right?
So, as a result of that, like that's where a lot of people got most of their seed stock.
It wasn't from connections, it wasn't from friends, those were small groups.
You know, Neville, SSSC, you know, a couple other small places, they allowed everybody,
people from Florida, people from Chicago, people from New York, people from North Carolina, Virginia, wherever,
just if they had the balls to go there, they had the balls to order it, they could get it, right?
And so that's where kind of like our modern story starts.
And that's where like a lot of seed strains and a lot of lines that became famous to everybody,
like Hayes, Northern Lights, Skunk One, G13, Maple Leaf, all these things we talk about now,
but it became kind of legendary.
It's really where like 99% of the population really first started getting access to it, right?
And so Neville is kind of unique in cannabis history in that he had the balls to start it
and he sort of got to, as you know, by the mid-80s, persecution in California and America in general had really kind of ramped up.
It was the Reagan years, drug laws had gotten intense, and so a lot of breeders and a lot of growers
and a lot of guys with seed, they sort of took what they had and they fled to Amsterdam, right?
And so Amsterdam basically got famous because it was able to collect a lot of stuff that was going on in America,
not so much stuff it had itself, but really stuff that was going on in America.
They did do some trips. It's certainly true that Neville, the drunkards from Sensi, other people,
you know, some people went to Afghanistan.
There was shit that they called obviously the Hippie Hashish Trail,
where people started going to the Far East and poking around looking for seed stock and stuff.
But Holland is really where it consolidated, like Matt's holding it up right now.
If you look on the left page that he has up, there's like an order form, right?
And you could literally write down what amount you wanted of what strains and you could send them fucking money
and they would send you seeds.
And that was pretty revolutionary, I think, because that had never happened before.
You couldn't just ask a stranger for a bunch of illegal marijuana beans and get a hold of them back then, right?
And so we thought maybe it would be good to start like on a historical basis
because most of the stuff that we grow today, in some way, you could trace a lot of it back to that first five or ten years in Amsterdam,
say like 85 to 95, right?
I think Matt would agree that the vast majority of today's modern cannabis, you can at least tie some of it back to that era.
Most of it, definitely.
Yeah, you know, and so Neville did two things, right?
Neville had the balls to start.
And then secondly, he was kind of able to collect a bunch of people's previous work.
Like, for instance, Mel Frank, Jim Ortega, Seattle Greg from the NL crew, Sam Skunkman, various groups like that, and then his own travels.
And so he kind of became the first person to be able to blend all those things together.
Like before him, nobody was crossing Skunk and Northern Lights because the Skunk crew and the Northern Lights crew didn't know each other.
Nobody was crossing NL5 with Hayes because that crew didn't know each other.
Yeah.
In a way, he got lucky.
I mean, like imagine today, for instance, you could collect, nobody knew about Kush.
Nobody knew about cookies.
Nobody knew about sour.
Nobody knew about all these things that are famous in America.
And imagine you got to be the person that blended them together first and then resold them to people.
That's kind of what Neville got to do, in a sense.
He got to be first.
And a bunch of people copied him and a bunch of people came along and added their own thing.
And obviously, just like every other breeder, nobody started shit.
Everybody's on the shoulders of who came before them.
So you all pick up the breeding projects and the clones and the seeds as you get into weed, as you come around.
And then you kind of add your own kick to it.
And that's what every breeder has done from the beginning.
In some cases, the first breeders in, say, like America, were taking all the import weed, like the Colombian and the Panamanian and the Thai and the Mexican and all that.
And all that stuff came in from seed, you know, seeded weed.
So literally every time you bought weed, you got free seeds.
And so most breeding in America was a bunch of sativas.
Right? Because that's all there was, was sativas.
Like, if you got hash, hash was Afghans, but you didn't find any seeds for the most part in hash.
I think this is a really super important part, too, because most people that are around today don't realize that the influx of modern Afghanis and stuff happened more in the 80s, late 70s, early 80s, as opposed to have always been existing and always a part of the culture.
Yeah, it changed.
I mean, most I would say, for instance, that like most most things that people were growing in the 70s was a blend of sativas.
Yeah, that's what that's what everybody had access to.
Right. So, you know, it'd be Mexican Colombians and be Mexican Colombians and ties.
It'd be all these type of things.
And Afghans were super fucking rare, like really rare, because somebody had to go to Afghanistan or Pakistan or one of those regions, get seeds.
And they had to go in the 60s and 70s when travel took a long time.
Right. They had to go. They had to collect them and they had to smuggle them back into America, either mailing them or on their person somehow. Right.
So but there was literal tons and tons and tons of Mexican and Colombian and Thai and Panamanian and all these different Jamaican that was coming in and, you know, in bricks and stuff to America.
And it was all seeded. So, you know, that was kind of like the.
And so as a result of that, most American breeding was like in core groups. Right.
It was just little groups of people, friend groups, extended friend groups, that type of thing, you know.
And, you know, so that's kind of how it started. And it really I mean, it really wasn't until Holland that most of America got access to like a lot of little groups of people were up to doing, you know, obviously, like prohibition was pretty heavy.
So, you know, you just there was no way for you to know what what Seattle, Greg and the NL crew was doing in the Pacific Northwest. They were trying to avoid getting busted.
Yeah. And they were in Greg's commented several times that it was just like watching dominoes fall constantly watching their friends.
It was sketchy. And so as a result of it being sketchy and you trying to be underground. Right.
That meant that most people didn't have access to what you were doing because they didn't want most people to know what they were doing. They had to in order to be successful.
You know, there was there was, you know, some stuff going on in Mendocino County and Humboldt County and, you know, Santa Cruz and the Central Coast area that was mountainous.
And, you know, people were getting away with pretty good sized things and breeding and stuff. But unless you were connected to those crews, if you lived in Nebraska, if you lived in Florida, if you lived in Chicago, like where I was born or anything like that, you had zero access to those people.
You had no idea whatsoever what was going on. You just had you know, if you were lucky, you got some imports. So the reason why we thought starting with Neville and starting with the seed banks is because Neville was really Neville was probably one of the biggest reasons why we're all here.
He sold between he had when he started the seed bank, you know, he sold millions of dollars worth of seed, millions of dollars. Yeah. All over America, all over. And so what he did is he gave thousands and thousands and thousands of people the ability to grow their own and the ability to get some of the best American genetics that were happening that people didn't have access to before.
So, you know, in a way, you know, he kind of took a lot of very famous weed characters and he made their stuff famous. You know, is really kind of what happened. He made it famous.
Yeah, he made some rock stars, you know, so I was talking about it before. And if anybody was listening to like, you know, the first breeder syndicate interview, Matt, Matt and Kansa got to interview Seattle Greg. And one of the things that Seattle Greg said in that interview was that, you know, he sent a Neville a whole bunch of NLC because he saw that advertisement that Neville put in that in high times.
He literally, you know, reached out to Neville and, you know, he said Neville Northern Lights. And, you know, within five or six years of that time, everybody in the Northern Light crew has gotten busted. And it would have been lost to time and nobody would have known anything about it other than some legends. But he had gotten it to Holland before they all got busted and lost it. Right.
So, um, you know, there's a there's a thing when people are asking questions. I haven't gotten to the questions yet because I just kind of rapping about stuff. But there's a button where you can people can go and they can ask questions and we'll try to get some of those questions answered a little bit later after we roll through some of this shit.
And so.
You know, I'm in my mid 40s, so, you know, literally, like I said before, I knew how to get seeds. I knew how to get good weed from Grateful Dead shows and Holland. And I went to Holland in 1994. And, you know, I was able to as an 18 year old nobody to just walk into various places and buy seed stock.
You know, I didn't know anything about I knew barely anything about growing weed. I literally got my first seeds that I had access to because I could buy a plane ticket and I could fly to Amsterdam as a kid and I could buy seeds and I could bring them back to my spot and we could pop them and we could see what's up.
Was it still super expensive for the time? Like, you know, like modern times comparatively, how were the seed prices back then when you first flew over? Did you have to save forever?
So the funny part about it is, is that seed prices like when you look in those old catalogs.
Yes, like it out.
In all honesty, you know, you see a lot of stuff for 50 bucks, 80 bucks, 150 bucks, 200 bucks ever. You have to realize the way money works right now.
Like I'll just give you guys for an example of inflation in 1994 when I turned 18, $20 back then would be worth $38 today.
So seed prices have stayed amazingly stable over the decades.
They really have.
They haven't jumped because if you think about it, most if you were selling seeds at what Neville was selling seeds for, most seed packs should be between $200 to $400.
Yeah.
Just even to equate how much actual money Neville was getting for selling those seeds.
Right.
And so, you know, they've stayed pretty stable.
I mean, obviously there's something there's cookies.
There's some when Skittles came out, there's some people that really profited off people's availability.
And, you know, they've charged, you know, 500, 800, $1,000 a pack for certain beans.
But, you know, seed prices for most things, like if you buy stuff from CSI or you buy stuff from Riot or you, you know, other good breeders that, you know, we like like Shaw and different people.
They're amazingly competitively priced, you know, to today.
So that's kind of like the that was kind of a long winded way to basically say this hour or some chin change or however long we decide to shoot the shit is basically about like maybe giving some people some information about how Neville got started and how he collected things and then how he started blending things and then how those things sort of became like the bedrock of modern cannabis.
Right.
Because he's the guy that really took it from very few hands, relatively speaking, to crowdsourcing it, if you will, to use a modern term, where all of a sudden a ton of people had access to it.
Right. And I don't think that would have happened without Neville and some others and Holland and all that.
So maybe that's sort of the that's sort of the beginning, you know, and we can kind of walk it through.
So Matt right now is holding up the first actual real seed catalog, which has a bunch of cool pictures of Neville's Afghanistan trip.
You know, he's holding a bunch of sheesh. He's hanging out with people in the tribal regions of Afghanistan. And, you know, so basically when when Neville first started.
He didn't know shit of what he had. Right. There it is. Yeah. He really didn't. He didn't know anything that he had. He was just collecting stuff from people. Right. And he was starting to blend those things.
And I would say it probably took him about three years or so of fucking around. Eighty five, eighty four, eighty five, eighty six, going into eighty seven before he really started to figure out like what he had and favorites of what he had.
And then kind of like eighty eight, eighty nine, ninety. That's really when like the blend started happening that got made really famous. Like if you look in the book, the very first book, you know, in the Northern Lights, Greg and those guys sent him like Northern Lights labeled one through eight.
But you weren't able to buy an L1 from him. You couldn't buy an L2. You couldn't buy an L anything. You bought a random assortment of NL that he had because he hadn't had time to like, you know, he inbred those things line by line.
But it took him a few years to really figure out what he had or then grow rooms of the stuff and even see what was in there. You got to realize, too, that like to him, these are just names that are coming in from these different growers.
You know, we have a lot of knowledge about what these things are supposed to be now, but he didn't have any. So in the first couple of years, there was a bunch of there was a bunch of stuff in there. It's weird.
And for lack of a better term, you know, there's random Nepalese by skunks, you know, Colombians by this African.
Yeah. You know, there was just a bunch of stuff because he was sort of reselling everything, you know, everything that he had. And he didn't really have he didn't really have a way to differentiate that, you know, so he was just experimenting.
So you'll see a lot of weird things in there like there's a page, you know, he's got some some tie by by Afghani, you know, New Mexico, Afghani.
Yes, he had stuff that you never see again, like skunk one by by NL nine, I think, or NL eight. He had Mazari that he got from his travels to Afghanistan. He had Nepalese, Ruteralis. It was kind of just a grab bag in the beginning of just whatever, whatever, you know, he was kind of collecting from all these different breeders. Right.
And so, you know, they, you know, and you know, and also just to go back for a second, just to give people an idea. So he was collecting all that. Greg McGreg, Seattle Greg sent him, I believe, NL one through eight, according to Neville and Greg, and, you know, who keep David Watson, who people call Sam's skunk man.
He'd gotten in trouble a couple of times. And so he took a bunch of seed stock from himself. And then some from some other breeders, and he brought that to Holland, and he ended up selling it to Neville in selling it to the owner of positronics.
Um, we're not, we're not, we're not, yes. Positive. The owner of positronics, we're not, um, he ended up just basically, you know, he had a couple of kids or whatever. He was kind of broke-ish. Um, and he ended up going out there and he gave Neville skunk one and Hayes from himself.
And then he was friends with Mel Frank and Mel Frank had given him Afghani one and Durban poison. Um, and then another breeder in the Bay who we don't know his name had given, um, some, some other Afghans and stuff like that.
And so 85, 86 Neville was basically just reselling a bunch of stuff that he was collecting a bunch of different breeders that he had gotten. That's kind of the beginning.
Well, um, let's, let's start going over some of the baselines that came out of the seed bank era. Some of the baselines that we see in a lot of modern cannabis lines today.
All right. So maybe we'll start, maybe we'll start with, uh, something simple like Northern lights. Yeah. Like I said, if you look in the 85 catalog and you look in the 86 blog, not sure, maybe even the 87, but my memory fails me slightly. I think you really can just buy Northern lights.
Yeah. This one says cannabis Indica, Northern lights in the 86 and in 87 it just says cannabis Indica Northern lights as well. Just says Northern lights.
So he got it in 80, he placed that ad in 84. He got the seed sometime in 84. It's not, we're not exactly sure when he kept, he started growing them out and he started keeping the lines separate and interbreeding them. Right.
And so if you guys listened to the podcast with Greg McAllister, uh, Seattle, Greg, as we like to call him and, um, you know, he basically said that like, you know, the NL one and the NL two and the NL three, um, those were all pretty predominantly Afghan.
They were rated by height and length of flowering time. And then most of the other, most of the other NLs were those couple Afghans, either one or two blended with basically every sativa they could get their hands on Hawaiians.
Um, you know, uh, Columbians ties Mexicans. So it was really a hodgepodge. And Greg has mentioned that they were really scared to keep notes. Uh, and they were really scared to like lay out exactly what they were doing.
So a lot of those lines are kind of lost to time in terms of what their exact makeup is. Uh, because those guys didn't even want to keep track. They were just trying to find good weed. Right. So some of them is a mystery, but if you look in those first few catalogs, like I said before, you can find, you know, a skunk one by NL, NL nine, you can find, um, you know, five by eight, if you will.
Uh, you can find a bunch of different things and he started reading them together and combining them, you know, in various, in various different ways. And even in the beginning, right. Like, um, everybody's familiar. Most people are familiar with what he ended up using, which is one of the things that became pretty famous, which is NL five by NL two.
Um, but the first year he offered it, he reversed it and he, and he, and it was NL two by NL five, uh, because he hadn't really decided yet on like what, you know, what worked for him.
So after a few years of fucking around with NL, he basically realized that, um, NL one bread pretty true to itself. It was pretty close to what we call Steve Murphy Afghan, uh, which is basically the Afghani that sort of got the NL, uh, line on its way.
He got these Afghan seeds from this guy named Steve Murphy, uh, who wrote a couple of cannabis books in the mid seventies. And this was sort of a wide leaf, short squat, kind of bubble-like, um, lowland Afghan, leafy, frosty, resinous, short, uh, quick flowering, thick, dense, that type of thing.
And then the NL two was, um, you know, more of a cush type.
It had thinner leaves.
Uh, one thing that people should know is like Afghanistan has an enormous amount of height variation depending on where you grow.
So some of the stuff like the Mazar's and some of the regions might only be like one or 2000 feet above sea level.
But then when you get up into like the Hindu Kush region, the Hindu Kush region is the second highest mountain range next to the Himalayas.
And a bunch of those Afghan farmers were growing at like 6,000, 8,000 feet, these big tall valleys in the middle of nowhere.
And so those leaves were kind of much skinnier, much thinner.
Um, think about like, everybody's pretty familiar probably with like the way that like what modern Kush looks like.
And it's like that skinny three leaf, um, you know, with different nugs, um, where like the lowland Afghans were sort of like thick, feathery, um, denser, looser, more, more leafy nugs.
Like Matt's holding up in the picture right there.
Right.
So I think it's 89, is it 89?
The first catalog, Matt, where all of a sudden he had figured out which NLs really worked for him, which ones were stable, which ones gave them good breeding work.
And after getting all those NLs, all the NLs pretty much disappeared.
Okay.
From Neville's catalogs, except for he offered NL1 F3, he offered NL2 F3.
Okay.
And then he found, he grew up a bunch of five and since five is so famous, maybe we'll chat about that.
There's this dude named Kirby who, uh, um, who took, uh, Steve Murphy's Afghan and he crossed that to a Hawaiian, which he said was a Colombian by Mexican.
Right.
And, um, you know, and he gave that to Greg and Greg sent that seed line out as one of the one through eight.
Well, never Neville grew a bunch of that out.
And obviously if you're growing a bunch of Afghan by Colombian by Mexican, you're going to get a bunch of, uh, a variety and chaos.
Okay.
So he found this one, maybe if you want to show that one NL5 pick again.
Yeah.
Let me find it.
Within the first few years, he grew up a bunch of this NL5 and most of it was a chaotic mess.
Uh, Af Afghani Sativa blend all over the place.
But that picture that you guys are seeing on the left, he found this one, he called it like a throwback plant.
Right.
And he found this one plant that was almost pure Afghan, super frosty, super resinous, didn't taste like much super low terps.
Um, but it, uh, it had great structure.
It had a great buzz and, uh, he loved it.
And so I think by 88, 89, 90, the only thing that Neville was really breeding with was you could buy NL1.
You could buy NL2.
And he had one cut that Matt just showed of the NL5.
Right.
Yeah.
You got to realize for a second that in America, right.
They didn't have Neville's NL5 cut.
They sent Neville a cut of their favorite, but theirs was a hybrid.
Theirs was that blend.
It was an F1 hybrid of Steve Murphy Afghan by Colombian and Mexican.
Right.
That's great.
And so, you know, there was, there's a lot of confusion about NL5 and we have this thing that we call pre pre.
What?
What?
A lot of people like to like to talk about how they have seeds or they have cuts like from the
earliest possible time you could have the cut, but people need to, people need to understand that
there was always, um, there was a North American cut of NL5.
That was an Afghani hybrid of with sativa.
And there was a cut that Neville found amongst the seed line.
That is that picture right there that looks super Afghan and super frosty.
Right.
And so, um, by 88, 89, almost all the NL you're going to get is he used NL1 and NL2 as males
and NL5 was always the, the, the female.
And that was pretty much it.
After three, four years of breeding with NL, he had decided that most of the sativa,
most of the hybrids that were with sativa that Greg had sent were a fucking mess
and hard to breed with and didn't breed consistently.
Right.
And you got to realize too, that back then during the high prohibition times,
people wanted consistent producers.
Yeah.
He used to joke that if he gave you some kind of white hot fire,
but it yielded 10% less, you'd be pissed.
Yeah.
Right.
And so most, he found that like most pure Afghans didn't cross very well together.
They liked being crossed with, that was one of the, he was one of the first people that
really realized that when you start crossing things, you start getting really neat stuff.
When you start crossing things that are totally unrelated to one another.
So people should realize there never was an NL5 line that was ever released pure.
That's super important as well.
Cause we see that all the time, people popping up with NL5 saying they had the NL5 cut or NL5 seeds.
So, you know, the NL5 cut that was made famous because people were buying
millions of dollars worth of hybrids of it, really, that was in Europe, you know?
And, you know, Greg has stated that by the late eighties,
they had all gotten busted and lost all their shit.
Right.
And they didn't really share very much.
Greg told us that they had shared the eight, cut of the eight, cut of the nine.
And with a few friends, they had shared the five, but that wasn't the super Afghani five
cut Neville shows in those pictures.
That was the F1 hybrid that was Colombian, Mexican, and Afghan.
Right.
So everything that Neville sold was an NL5 hybrid.
You had NL5 by NL2.
He had NL5 by a skunk one.
He had NL5 by Hayes.
Can you think of any more Matt?
Um, as far as NL5 process, NL5 Hayes, NL5 by two.
I think that I, what was the other one?
NL5.
One.
Those are the three most common, right?
Yeah.
Yes.
You know, a lot of people are talking about having pure NL5.
Well, that'd be really fucking hard.
Real hard.
Because Greg says that they lost it all by the late eighties and then Neville never sold pure NL5.
And by pure, uh, to be clear, he grew out a lot of the seeds that Greg sent him.
And most of the NL5 line was a mess.
And he found this one Afghani plant.
He liked a lot.
And that's the one he used.
So, uh, you know, you see a lot of stuff, you know, I see some comments, you know, uh,
talking about Bodie stuff and all that.
And it's tough because I'm not here to like, you know, call anybody out or anything like that.
Or obviously there's a lot of people making a lot of claims.
Um, but you know, that's part of the issue.
And that's part of the reason why we wanted to do these podcasts and these talks is because
most of the history is oral, right?
It's not written down very well.
Um, even the people that were there disagree exactly on what happened.
Right.
There's some consensus, but there's also, uh, there's also some disagreement and some
of these old timers, they don't like each other.
Yeah.
They have beefs and they have disagreed.
I mean, it's not very different than today, right?
There's breeders today that don't like each other and they have
and 20 years from now, there'll be legends about both.
Right.
And there'll be like, oh, I thought Matt, right.
I was a piece of shit.
He's a fucking this and that.
I don't believe him at all.
And then there'll be other people will be like, well, Matt,
riot story was consistent.
This other guy's story wasn't consistent and most people aren't there.
Right.
And so what we're trying to do with this is just kind of lay out some like basic facts.
Right.
And, uh, yeah, I mean, I can actually comment on the Bodie, uh, in all five thing, because I was,
we were talking during that time a lot, you know, where we've been close friends for a long time.
And in his goal with the NL five, knowing he knew the NL five was never released pure as a seed
line.
However, we were trying to find something closest that we could find.
And he was like, he was trying to find it and, and consulting all his friends to saying, Hey,
where do you think the best NL five seed line would be?
That would show the best representation.
And at the time there was like Dr. Atomics for the lights, um, which was a supposed claim
it to the NL five, you know, uh, lineage.
And then there was BC seeds, which was the more popular one that had, had been around probably
accepted as, as closer to Northern lights than most that was available at the time.
So that's what he went with.
And, and I, I agree.
It was probably one of the better options at the time, but as far as a pure NL five seed line,
when you break it down, it's, that's really hard to find.
Because it never, because the only people that had it, you know, and by pure, let's be clear,
the initial NL five seed line was an unstabilized polyhydrate.
Yes.
It was a mixture of Mexican, Colombian, and, and Afghani, right?
It was never stabilized.
It was never pure.
It never bred, it never bred true.
Right.
It was a full on polyhydrate.
Oh, and that's right.
Squirrel mentioned the NL five skunk one.
Yeah, that's correct.
Yeah.
NL five skunk.
I, I, I mentioned, I think Neville sold NL five by two and NL five by skunk one.
Yeah.
NL five by haze.
And so, but NL was always the, NL was always the mother plant.
Yeah.
I'm sure most people know this, but I'll say it anyway, just in case, is that the way we
is that the way we talk about seeds is the mother should always come first
and the father should always come second.
Correct.
You talk about five by two, he's using the mother of NL five and a dad of NL two.
Right.
Some people get it flipped around and that's hella confusing
because it is important to know what's the mom and what's the dad.
It really helps to have consistent terminology when you're chatting about seeds.
What about the new cut?
So, you know, there's things where it's like, I can't, you know, when we're talking about kind
of seed history and stuff like that, this is all stuff that's going on in the eighties
and the early nineties.
And then, you know, these, these things get legendary status and then they pop up in
different generations and by different people and different seed companies in Holland,
different seed companies in later in Canada, they start, they start popping out.
And I can answer that one actually real quick.
So there's, there's somebody asking a question about NL five seed from Todd.
We know quite a bit about that.
The basic story is that Greg says, okay, that he found that they found some seed
from him that he didn't know existed for decades after his sister had sadly passed away.
In her fridge, in her freezer.
In her freezer.
And he gave some of those to Todd.
Matt got some of those as well.
And so those, you know, it's, it's hard to say, you know, Greg admitted that Greg
admitted that he lost everything for decades and then he finds some seeds in his sister
and his deceased sister's fridge that were labeled.
And so at best you can say that the provenance of them is uncertain.
For sure.
You know, it's just uncertain.
There's just no way to tell if it is an L five, then it would be Steve Murphy, Afghan
by Mexican Columbia.
Which, which originally Greg referred to as a Hawaiian, but later on, he said what the
Hawaiian was that was actually over there.
It's a Hawaiian, but you know, I mean, obviously Hawaii doesn't have any native
Exactly.
seed.
So most of the Hawaiian was sativas from other traditional regions brought to Hawaii and grown.
Yeah.
Right.
Yeah.
And so how did BC seed company obtain NL five?
So this is kind of jumping around for a minute, but let's be clear.
Most of the seed companies in Amsterdam, once they realized how profitable this seed shit
was, they would buy seed from whoever had the seed in Holland, rename it and resell it.
Yeah.
Okay.
So, you know, a company bought Neville's NL two F three and they renamed it Oasis.
Yeah.
Which company is that Matt remind me?
Dutch passion.
Dutch passion.
So Dutch passion, you know when this is jumping ahead a lot, but you know, within a year of
Shanti releasing white widow or other things, there was two or three other competing seed
companies in Holland selling white widow.
And they would just take this, they would just lift the exact lineage from the people
that's that first sold the seed.
They'd buy five or 10 or 20 or however many packs of seed from that person, grow them
out, pick a male and a female and start making and packaging their own seed line because
it was money.
And then they get the out, right?
Seeds have always been shady and everybody involved in seeds has always been shady and
it's already always been underground and it you know, it's always been somewhat persecuted.
And so, you know, a lot of the characters to be perfectly honest, why it's hard to tell
what they lie about, you know?
Yeah.
I mean, the provenance of a breeder is only as good as what they can prove, you know,
and a lot of people don't demand that proof.
They don't know to demand that proof or, or have it even researched.
To demand that.
Yeah, well, I saw something we'll get to some questions here and just we'll go through
like a little question and answer session, you know, shortly here or whatever.
And we're not, we won't get through it all today, but I just kind of like you guys can
see, I mean, I haven't even gotten, I haven't even talked yet about the most famous hybrid
of all time, which is NL5 Hayes.
But there's a lot of depth to these stories on how these people got started.
And, you know, and then other people should also know that like, you know some of these
later seed companies a lot of these people worked for Nether, right?
Yeah.
Adam, who was part of starting THC seeds, Tony, who was first at Cerebral and then made
his own Sagmartha seeds, Simon, who was also at Cerebral and then made serious seeds.
They all worked for Nether.
All of them.
And then within a year of leaving, working for Neville or leaving, working for Sensi
under Neville to be more accurate, they all had their own seed companies.
So it's highly likely that at the very least they took some stock, some other plants, some
fathers, some whatever from their previous job and renamed stuff.
I mean, that's the game, right?
But maybe I should take a step back.
I'll talk for a few more minutes and then we can answer some questions and then we can
get to that.
But the other part that's cool is that one of the things that Neville did that other
people didn't is that he actually went to America on some seed and clone hunts.
And there's a dude who has written, most people probably know exactly who this is.
He's one of the people through his books that taught me how to grow weed.
There's this dude named Jorge Cervantes.
And Neville met up with Jorge Cervantes on one of his trips back into America.
And Jorge had new breeders, maybe breeders is the wrong word.
They knew growers at the very least.
They knew growers in the Pacific Northwest region.
And Jorge hooked them up with the G13 cut and what became known as the Pacific Northwest
Hash Plant.
That's right.
And so certain people gave Neville a bunch of seed lines, but then there was things like
the Pacific Northwest Hash Plant, the G13, stuff like that, that ended up just being
straight cuts that he purchased.
And Jorge wasn't somebody, he used to go by a different pen name back in the day.
But yeah, he hooked up Neville with those two cuts.
And really all we know is that Neville paid $500 for the G13 cut and it came out of Oregon.
And I don't know how much he paid for the Pacific Northwest Hash Plant.
I'm not sure.
But he paid for that and he sent both those things back as cuts.
So he kind of collected over the first five or six years he was in business through some
travels to Afghanistan from meeting up with American breeders to going to America and
buying cuts and seed lines.
We haven't talked about that, but there was this very mysterious character named Jim
Ortega that gave him seed lines that became super famous, the Garlic Bud, the Hawaiian
Indica, the Maple Leaf Indica, and the Kush 4.
And a number of those ended up in a bunch of Neville projects.
So Neville was able to, in that five year period, or six year period, really, 84 to
90, he was constantly collecting stuff from breeders, collecting stuff from people, blending
it together, releasing stuff, playing around with stuff, and seeing what the hell it was
is kind of how it got started in a sense.
You want to add any of that shit, Matt?
Actually, this is harkening back to people are asking about the BCC company and their
sourcing.
I actually found something in reference to just that real quickly.
This is the Dr. Atomic one.
So it's going to be the hemp BCC bank, I believe.
And they don't really give an exact anything on how they sourced it, but it does say,
this state of the art Indica is a result over 20 years of selected inbreeding.
They pretty much took Neville's description, the buds are extremely frosted.
Then they actually sold an NL5 Hawaiian Indica, NL5 Haze One, Hawaiian Haze.
But again, it didn't say anything about the sourcing of their NL5, and they couldn't
have possibly been around for it.
So that's a lot to digest, and it kind of gives you a super general overview of what
Neville was up to, and some of the people he was collecting from, and some of the things
that he got.
Maybe we'll pause for a second and we'll hop over to the votes.
Yeah.
People are, and we'll answer some questions.
Yeah, I'll read them off to you so you don't have to read them.
No, I got them in front of me.
It's pretty easy.
Okay.
This app that I downloaded works pretty well.
Awesome.
The first question that got a bunch of votes is getting CSI on here.
CSI is, I could probably safely say, he's a good friend of both mine and Matt's.
We both chat with him fairly often.
You know, we're all good friends.
It's certainly possible that we could convince him to come on one of these in the future.
He's not quite as talkative as Matt and I am, and he's a little shy.
But he has done it in the past, and it is entirely possible that we could get him to do it.
He's a wealth of knowledge.
People call him Inspecta for a reason.
He's got a really curious mind.
He pokes and pokes and pokes and tries to figure out knowledge, kind of like the rest of us.
Everything I just said that I rambled on about for forever, it's the result literally of
years of talking to people.
Years of researching, years of, you know, Matt got to talk to Neville quite a bit in
2009, 10, 12 years ago or so, got a bunch of emails and various kinds of communication.
There was a couple of year period on Mr. Nice Forums, which is Shanti Baba's site, where
Neville was actively posting and answering a bunch of people's questions.
There's friends of his that have contributed.
There's enemies of his that have their own various stories and stuff.
And so all of this stuff is not easy to find.
It's not in any one location.
It's all sort of a conglomeration of, you know, just a lot of work.
He cares about history.
He cares about knowledge.
He cares about the oral history.
I can't say when, but we can try to get Homi on here and see if he wants to chat about
various things.
The next question is, we have, like I said before, we have no idea who passed the Pacific
Northwest hash plant to Neville.
Yeah, that's right.
Jorge did arrange that exchange for the PNW hash plant, right?
So it's not public knowledge who gave it to him.
We just know it came out of the Oregon, Washington State area.
There was growers that Jorge knew that he was able to hook up with Neville and Neville
bought them from them.
So their names are not known to my knowledge, whoever they were.
And the Maui cut that I have, so the Maui cut is the one that I have.
So the third, that question and the next question, what seeds did I buy in 94?
Did I find anything decent?
And the Maui cut are both related.
So I was dumb when I was 18.
And in retrospect, I went there and I bought a ton of seed.
But sadly, I only bought one or two packs of like 15 different things and not realizing
and not realizing at the time that I would have been better off buying, say, two or three
or four things, like five or six or seven packs of each, like 20 or 30 or 40 females
of each one.
Instead, I bought a bunch of random shit.
I bought stuff from Sensi.
I bought some stuff from, I'm trying to think now.
The easiest way to put it is I didn't find anything that was worthwhile on that trip,
except for I was at the gray area coffee shop and I was smoking a joint and we were young
and this old timer was sitting down next to us.
And I mean, old timer in the sense, he probably looks something like me right now.
He's mid 40s, a little gray, whatever.
And we were smoking and we were young.
We were all 18.
I was there with some friends of mine.
We were like all 18 to 20 or whatever.
And we were all hippies.
Dad had this mission to buy six seed and smuggle them back so we could grow.
I had a two lighter at the time, so really major, major player.
And I was sitting down next to him, this old guy smoking weed and we were telling him our
story.
And he told me that he was from Hawaii and he'd lived there since the mid 70s.
And every few years he came out and traded seeds with some of these guys in Holland and
brought them back and tried them in Hawaii on Maui.
And it wasn't a very long conversation.
We drank a cappuccino.
I didn't ask him that many questions.
We smoked a couple of joints together and a little hash or whatever.
And then at the end of it, he was like, well, I'm super stoked.
You kids are out here trying to find some weed.
And he's like, why don't you try a little bit of what I do?
And he put a handful of seeds in mine.
And one of those became the Maui cut.
I stupidly didn't make any seeds.
That era, I wasn't even attempting to breed yet.
I was just trying to find a good female to fill my two lighter.
So I didn't ask him any intelligent questions about it.
And so I call it the Maui because that's the island it came from.
And that's the only thing I know about it.
So gorgeous, though.
Yeah.
So really the first time I went to Amsterdam, I went to Amsterdam probably two or three times
between 94 and 03, probably two or three times a year.
I went to like three cannabis cups in that time.
And I would go mostly I would go in summer, but I would go.
I try to go a couple of times a year and buy different seeds, talk to breeders,
talk to various people, learn as much as I could.
You got to realize back then there was no forums.
Everything was just in books.
Information was pretty hard to come by.
Information was rudimentary, really.
The way the information flows now, I wish that I could have listened to somebody like this
to shoot the shit about weed, but it was pretty hard to come across.
So the only thing I found on my 94 trip, and I absolutely get
everything I bought was I don't want to say it was bunk,
but my 18 year old knowledge, I didn't keep any of it.
So I still have that cut.
It's still grown in Mendocino County by others.
It's a great outdoor plant.
It has a bunch of might be in some popular strains that are around nowadays.
It is definitely in some popular strains.
And that cut is 27 years old this year.
That's so wild.
So it's certainly my longest old cut.
I've had it my entire adult life.
It paid a lot of bills.
I brought it with me when I moved from Chicago to Mendocino County in 1998.
I spread it out a little bit there, and it's been in a number of different things.
I bred with it quite a bit.
I gave some hybrids that I had made of Superdog, which is another story that we've talked about
before, but Superdog by Maui.
I gave a bunch of that to Mandelbrot.
Mandelbrot found a pheno in that that he called the truth, and then he bred with it in some
of his own lines and stuff.
And so she exists in various.
She still exists pure with me and some friends, but she also exists in some other people's
work.
She might exist in some pretty famous things at this particular time, but that's kind of
how cannabis is.
So there's a couple more questions I could answer for sure.
Our friend Flanville, he said, what's my personal favorite clone or line to come from Neville's
work?
The line is easy.
I personally think the most famous hybrid ever made and the most successful cannabis
hybrid that's ever been sold is North Lights Five by Hayes.
I don't think there's another line that's more famous.
If you're looking at the catalogs right there, right out there on top in the 1990 catalog,
that's that picture of NL five Hayes.
Do we know which one it was?
It's a two.
It's a five.
A five to a five to.
Yeah, there it is.
That's the mother of Neville's hate that picture right there.
That's the mother of Neville's Hayes.
That cut is still alive.
It's both in Europe and it's floating around with a select few people in America.
It was found in 89 or something like that.
So it's super old.
And look at all that leaf resin.
Yeah.
But yeah, basically, he got, it's kind of long, but he got Hayes from Sam Dave, Dave
Watson's Sam skunk man.
And he ended up crossing it with some of his Indica's maple leaf Indica called that silver
Hayes.
He crossed it with G 13 and you had G 13 Hayes.
He crossed it with NL five.
That became and the NL five.
I actually don't think there's another line as well as me thinking that it's the most
famous well-known line.
I don't think there's another line that has as many named elites that still exist.
Is that one?
Yeah, it'd be hard.
You'd be hard pressed to find one.
There's probably four to six, at least famous named cuts in Europe that are NL five Hayes.
The PIF, the heights, Hayes, the Cuban black Hayes, the dog shit, the church, all those
are all NL five, these, you know, and they all come from 88 to 95.
Here's another picture from Sensi.
So it is it's probably the most, it's probably the most famous line that anyone has ever
made.
And there's literally eight to 10 to 12 cuts of it that are all have different names that
are all elites that are all still hoarded and exist on both in Europe and in America.
So I think it's by far the most famous cannabis hybrid ever made.
Since you have this beautiful one.
Yeah, that's super skunk since he's he today is sadly probably bunk.
Yeah, Neville worked for them.
That's a whole story in itself.
But Neville worked for them after he got busted and got up.
They bailed him out of jail.
And they gave him a great deal of if we bail you out of jail, you have to sell us your
company.
So he spent like he spent a good chunk of time in jail and they bailed them out.
And since he seeds ended up absorbing the seed bank from Neville and hired Neville as
their top breeder.
So Neville went from owning the biggest, most successful seed company to having the DEA
after him spending about eight or nine months in jail, and then having to go from being
an owner to being the head breeder for different people.
And that's another story.
But they ended up renaming a bunch of this stuff.
And so since he for the first five years in the 90s, for the most part, that was where
Neville resided and made most of his beans.
And probably from 95 to 2000, they still had the vast majority of the original lines that
they were working with.
Seed laws changed in 99 and 2000 in Holland, and most of the original breeders got raided
and busted.
Ben and Alan Dronkers are Dutch businessmen, for lack of a better term.
They will never admit that they lost a single plant from the originals.
You can't get a word out of them that anything is different than it's ever been.
But most likely, they lost a bunch of stuff.
And if I'm correct, I think they farmed out most of their work to Spain.
They haven't made the traditional versions of their seeds.
And the timeline I always go by is roughly 2005, 2006 is going to be the last time you
want to buy stuff from the majority of the Dutch seed banks, because by then, Nirvana,
fucking all of them, Greenhouse, Sensi, they were all farming out to Buddha Seeds and
eventually to LaMotta.
So basically, yeah, Sensi, sadly, Sensi had about a 10 to 15 year run of having a lot
of legitimate stuff.
I do think that there could be some things in Sensi that are still real.
You have no idea what to know what.
And we do know that they lost quite a few mother plants and breeding plants over the
years, but they'll never admit that.
So sadly, Sensi is no longer what they were in the 90s, which was an excellent place to
get a bunch of beans.
And I will say, if people want to see what original haze is like, Seedsman still has
original haze that they sell.
I believe it's all purchased from Watson, if I'm correct.
But if people talk about, I might have a cutting of original haze and stuff, it's still around.
It's still around in seed form.
You know, so yeah, there's, I don't know, we could talk endlessly.
There's a couple things on here that are easy to talk about.
Somebody said, did Skunk Vah, Head Dog, use your headband cut?
Yes and no.
I have two headband cuts.
One of them we call the LA.
He does not have that one.
But there's another headband cut that's extremely nice that both him and ICC both have and Mr.
Bob Hemphill and some other people have.
It's much more of a Cush-based headband.
And that's the headband that he uses.
It's a great cut, super potent.
That's the one that I use as well from Elite Cannabis.
Yeah.
And then you mentioned the NL5 seed line was composed of Afghani, Colombian, and Mexican.
What makes this different than Skunk One?
That's a good point.
Skunk One is Afghani, Mexican, and Colombian.
There's totally different types of parents, totally different lines.
Yeah.
I mean, it's like saying somebody's Italian, Irish, and Chinese.
You know, it's not the same parents.
It's just the same region of origin.
Certainly, Sam Skunkman was not using the NL crews, Afghans in his lines.
And it's very unlikely that the Mexican or the Colombians are related.
But it just goes to show how different blends from different parents can lead to very different
things.
Yeah.
Vastly different.
Vastly different.
You know, let's see.
Somebody asked about, I don't know.
I mean, I've been talking the whole time, and Matt has been unusually quiet while I bullshit.
So I learn.
I still learn when we talk.
There's certain things that you said tonight that I couldn't fucking remember.
Even from being the one who talked to Greg a bunch, I still couldn't remember some of
that stuff.
So I'm just learning.
Yeah.
So let me ask this.
There was a guy that was talking about where can one find real old school strains and genetics?
Why are all these pollen chuckers with watered down herb genetics and trash gear getting
the most attention?
All right.
So there's a couple of comments on that.
For one thing, and this is common.
This isn't just for weed.
But, you know, some people are really good at marketing.
Right?
For lack of a better term.
You know?
You know, there's a lot of breeders.
Let's all throw it out there again.
Right?
So if we get CSI on here, in my opinion, CSI is one of the absolute best breeders that's
alive today and working.
I think the amount of breeding he does, the amount that he shows his own work, the amount
that he constantly cracks entire rooms of seed that he has made and shows people what's
in the seed lines themselves.
Almost nobody does that.
Yeah.
Almost nobody shows as much of his own work in pictures.
And you can just watch him grow after grow after grow after grow after grow after grow
on IG for years.
Just posting tons and tons of pics of, you know, most breeders don't test their own work
at this particular time.
It's very rare.
Testing your own work is time consuming.
The best way to make money as a breeder is to make the cross, give it a killer name,
make some amazing packaging, pump, pump, pump, pump on IG and try to get a bunch of hype
going and growing it out and testing it takes time, money, energy, space, power bills, you
know, all this different stuff.
And so, you know, but the reason why I mentioned CSI is because he is absolutely terrible at
promoting himself.
He is a phenomenal breed that doesn't really self promote the way other people do, you
know, and so you got to separate marketing from talent, right?
The other thing I should say about that is that when people talk about herm genetics,
people act like herms are a bad thing, right?
And so, and they're not, you know, I said this on the live when Matt and I were chatting
before, anybody that thinks that herms are bad is tripping.
Yeah, right?
Herms are inconvenient.
In today's marketplace, obviously having seeds and stuff like that isn't the greatest.
So, you know, herms are just a genetic trait that enable a plant to create seed in the
event that something weird happens and they don't get pollinated in order to continue
the species, right?
From a breeding perspective, they're quite convenient to the marijuana plant.
From a seedless perspective, where we're trying to grow sensimalia or whatever, you
know, however you want to call it, seedless, they're inconvenient.
But the marijuana plant did not develop with the idea that it was going to be seedless.
To it, seedless is a failure.
Yeah.
Right?
A straight failure, okay?
So, you know, it's trying to, just like all other life, it's trying to reproduce and survive,
right?
And, you know, just to be clear too, there is a lot of the best cannabis out there that's
bag seed, okay?
Straight bag seed.
It's really humbling as a breeder that some of the best on the planet is accidents.
It sure is.
The chem dog came from a bag of weed bought at a dead show.
Without seeds in that bag of weed, we don't have chem dog.
Sour was a multi-term accident, okay?
The super skunk that everybody's hunting after and everybody wants and everybody's
claiming to have RKS and there's RKS coming out of the woodwork and everybody wants to
claim like they got skunk, skunk, skunk, that plant hermed like a mofo.
It hermed like crazy.
But because it hermed like crazy, if it didn't herm, there would be no sourdouza.
There would be sour diesel is from accidental herms, right?
The reason why people have cush, the reason why cush came to LA is because in Florida,
somebody's room hermed and they sold seeded weed and people found that seeded weed and
they grew up some seed and they got what we know as cush, sour diesel, cookies, okay?
Chem dog, you name it, they're bag seeds.
And so a lot of people like jump on herms and obviously you don't want to buy a bunch
of gear that has tons of herms because it's inconvenient.
But herms are a genetic trait like anything else and they exist.
And breeders do the best they can to reduce the incidence of herms.
But if you're breeding something, okay, nobody cared that sour diesel hermed a little bit.
It was fire weak.
Yeah.
Tasted great.
Got you super fucking high.
Lasted a long time.
Burned great.
It's a herm.
You know, cush came from a herm.
Cookies came from a herm, multiple herms.
So a lot of the backbone of cannabis and a lot of the absolute most famous lines were
not created intentionally at all.
They were accidents that happened in people's rooms.
And so that doesn't mean that you want to get a bunch of hermy gear that sucks and makes
your life crappy.
Right?
Obviously, herms are inconvenient and breeders can do the best they can to reduce hermaphrodism
traits.
But there's, I mean, Matt can speak to this.
There's populations like Thai and other things where herms are prevalent.
Yeah.
I mean, it really depends on which line you're running in.
And it vastly depends on the room that the parents were acclimated in that made the seeds.
If you're popping seeds from a grower that only predominantly makes seeds indoors and
you want to run them all outdoors, probably not the best idea.
You know, it's acclimation, climate, all that goes into it.
But intersex traits are here.
People have bred against them ever since people have been breeding cannabis furs and pamilla.
Right?
But they're still here.
And they're not going anywhere.
It's a part of the genome.
And, you know, man, there's a lot of questions.
I'll try to answer a couple more before we leave.
The last question is Caleb using the other headband cut.
Caleb is CSI.
And CSI has both of my headband cuts.
Like I said, he's a real good friend of mine.
I trust him with my whole library.
He can have anything he wants from me, basically.
I love his breeding work.
You know, nobody put the Mendo perps, which I got lucky enough to crack.
Nobody put more genetics out there of the Mendo perps and made it a permanent part of
the gene pool more than CSI.
So he has both of my headband cuts.
My LA cut is a sort of a diesel type.
It's much more of a blend.
You know, the other one is much more of a cush.
They're both super potent.
They're both in my kind of top five or 10 cuts that I possess.
So he has both.
He hasn't had them forever, but he has started using them in various work.
And you can buy some of that work as we speak.
Mr. Nice, I'll ignore that one just because it's a super long subject.
But the short version is that after Neville left Sensi, he started working with Shanti
Baba and they made they bred together for a while.
And the result of that breeding was super silver haze, mango haze, Neville's haze,
some other things.
And Neville was hurting for money.
And he sold Shanti for a good chunk of loot, a quarter of a million dollars or something.
Most of his seed collection from the seed bank era in the 80s, unreleased stuff, various
lines and things like that.
So Mr. Nice, like a lot of people, there's some people that believe that Shanti is full
of shit.
There's some people they believe is a shady character, that he's a liar.
But it's indisputable that Neville gave him a lot of real parents and Neville gave him
or sold him his seed collection.
So there's not very many people that have indisputable evidence that they have a bunch
of access to the old things.
And he's one of them.
That being said, there's no way to verify what he has and what he doesn't have.
And so there's a lot of debate on what he has.
And there's disagreement.
And some people think he's full of it.
Some people think he's got all the white hot fire.
The truth is probably somewhere in between.
I'm sure he has some of Neville's old work.
I'm sure he has a bunch of Neville's old seed.
It's hard to say exactly what he currently has and what he doesn't.
But his provenance and being able to access it, I don't think is in dispute.
Would you agree with that, Matt?
Oh, yeah, for sure.
I mean, Neville, I mean, at the very end, it's not talked about a lot.
But he felt like Shanti Baba might owe him some more money, even though it wasn't in
the agreement, because he had done so well with Neville's line.
So Neville obviously felt that his lines were being used correctly and making tons
of money with them.
There's another thing about Australian bastard cannabis at CSI.
I'll just say that real quick.
I don't know that much about it.
CSI is a true breeder.
He is really interested in freaks.
He's really interested in genetic oddities.
And if nothing else, ABC is extremely odd in the way that its leaves form and stuff
like that.
And a lot of stuff right now is really bottlenecked.
People use the same 30, 40, 50 cuts over and over and over again.
And so at the very least, when you buy ABC work, you're getting something that is genetically
unique so far.
And he's certainly widening the gene pool of available cannabis.
By making it available to the public.
It is probably one of the first lines in a long time that's totally unique from what
came before.
And it's valuable just for that.
And it's an ongoing project that he's putting a bunch of time into.
And I'm sure over the next three or four or five years, we'll see a bunch more work from
it.
Matt can comment on this too, but he's really just been getting started with his own work.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I see so many people get so mad every time he posts pictures of people actually genuinely
get hurt feelings when they see this plant.
They're like, oh my God, what is that piece of shit?
You know, it's surprising to me because a lot of them claim to be breeders or our seed
makers have companies that they don't see the genetic novelty in bringing in something
completely new that hasn't really touched cannabis.
You know, as far as modern lines.
There's a lot, like I said, there's a lot of sameness.
I'll say this quickly too.
The way the breeding has gone the last 20 years, as soon as something becomes famous,
everybody crosses it to everything else.
So the amount of shit right now that has cookie in it, cushion it, sour diesel in it, skittles
in it, you know, you name it in it, stuff gets bread and bread, bread, bread, bread,
bread to death.
So to take say cookies and to cross it with ABC is crossing it to a vastly different gene
pool than anybody else is using.
And so who knows what might come in that?
That's the best part.
You don't know.
Who knows in a few years where that might be, that might lead to unique hives that might
open up the gene pool and make things pop out.
You're not expecting genetics.
And so people get on them about it because it's so weird.
But he's really just in the infancy of playing around with it.
But you've seen that he is, you know, he's been posting a bunch of pictures this last
week of some of his work with the ABC.
You know, I don't know if you guys could like, this is probably odd because I've been
talking 98% of the time for an hour and a half.
It's all good.
I can hear it in my throat.
But we kind of wanted to just do this thing and maybe we'll do it like, you know, semi
often or whatever.
We had this thought of kind of going through the seed banks and it's such a big subject.
We really only touched on a little bit of the history.
We didn't really touch on Hayes or Skunk or Durbin or anything from Jim Ortega very much.
But those can be for future things.
I hope everybody enjoyed it.
You know, I don't want to make it a forever thing, but we could do this pretty often.
And there's also the Patreon.
You can go to Breeders Syndicate Patreon where me and Notso always shoot the shit with a
bunch of people that are a part of it.
You can ask questions all the time.
Whenever we have time, we go in there and pick at them and try to break it down.
That's really true, too.
It's on Discord and we have a server there.
And yeah, you can directly message me on there.
I generally answer.
Sometimes it takes me a minute because I do do things and get busy or whatever.
But Matt and I are both pretty active on there and we do bullshit a bunch.
And it's a lot easier to ask away and get responses on there.
So feel free to join that.
And really what all Matt and I are trying to do at this point is just get chunks of
history and chunks of knowledge out there to the larger public.
This is kind of our weed life.
This is what we like to do.
This is what we like to talk about, you know, and participate on or whatever.
So I hope everybody enjoyed it and learned a couple things.
And I hope it continues and all that.
So yeah, I think that's it.
