Breeders Syndicate Update. Not only is our merch store up at SyndicateGear.com
but all episodes will remain free. But what we need from you is interaction. If
you're watching the show for your first time, kick back and enjoy it. If you like
the show, feel free to like it. But if it's your second viewing, we ask a gentle
person's agreement that you click the subscribe button. It costs you nothing,
but it helps us tremendously with the sneaky YouTube algorithm. Leaving
comments, telling not so his voice lulls you into a trance works as well. We hope
you take the time to do this. We try to put out the best possible shows for you
we can and want to build this community. Thanks again from all of us at the
Breeders Syndicate family.
It was like I was connected with everything around me. All of a sudden I just started questioning everything I'd ever been told.
You know, by the time I got high that very first time, when it started to hit me,
I'm like, wow. I got high.
Welcome to Breeders Syndicate everyone. I'm Matthew. Mouser's not with us today,
but we do have Mad Jagger Raho for episode number four of the Mad Jagger
Raho Chronicles. Today we were talking a little bit earlier and we kind of wanted
to go over some of someone that we've mentioned a lot in the past few episodes
who is R, the connoisseur. We've been going over some of his past work and
we all have a special admiration for the guy. We keep bringing him up so we
thought that would be a kind of a neat idea to talk a little bit more about
some of his work and what we admire so much about the man. Welcome guys.
Good to have you. Hope you had a happy new year. Where do you want to jump off at?
The first article we were reading was a five year review.
September 1979. I found High Times, I think, about when it started in 1974 and
started reading it avidly and collecting it. Once R showed up, I don't know
what issue it was exactly, it was really cool to have someone who was in New York
City, right in the middle of everything, and had access. Obviously he had lots of
dealer friends, had access to all the strains that were coming in. That
particular issue, the fifth anniversary, 1979, was largely about the advent of
gold. When Santa Marta gold first showed up, Colombian gold, and how it blew
everyone away. They're just digging it. Over the course of a year or two, it
made the brown weeds and other weeds like Oaxacan, let's just say, or Michoacan
Guerrero in Mexico. Apparently he said even tie stick, people didn't want
them. They wanted something that was gold. All they cared about was that the weed
would be gold. He mentioned that a lot of the reasons they were gold were the
way they sun-dried them, or the way they were fermenting on their trip to the
United States in the hold of the ship, or warehousing in the US because they would
hold on to it and wait till the prices got higher in the summer when there was
a drought and there was no harvesting being done immediately. Just holding
it in the warehouse helped change its color. On the other hand, he said it also
precipitated the weed that had mold. It hadn't been initially dried correctly or
packaged. The thing that's so important about the article is he's really
documenting one of the first times, well it's maybe the first time a major market
shift based on appearances was ever really documented. It's swept through the
United States markets multiple times over the last 20 years, whether it was
moving from just green bud or kind bud to purple. Everybody had to have purple.
All of a sudden, plants and cuttings that had been around for 15, 20 years, just
foundation lines that people had bred with and kept around for forever,
cuttings got lost. They were neglected. They got pushed to the side because
everybody had to have, in order to sell, you had to have weed that
looked like what the buyers were looking for. That turned into purple, just
like R was talking about in what, 78, 79. Everybody wouldn't buy it unless it was
gold. The dealers started coming up with ways to make not gold look like gold so
they could sell it. It's the same story over and over again, repeating itself. I'm
sure it took place in Amsterdam multiple times where some new
thing came in and everything had to have those superficial traits.
The market drives towards those things. We assess the
product with our eyes first, usually. Smell comes next. You can really get
all the different senses. In today's market, unfortunately, I
think that's a thing of the past, being able to see it, smell it,
touch it, feel the consistency with the event of mylar bagging and
all this stuff at the corporate level that people have to do. It's crazy to me
that people can't smell their bud before they smoke it. It blows my mind.
R was talking about these same things in 1979.
People lamenting cookies and mylar bags that you can't see what's in them.
A sticker with a lion sign. This is an old story. It's been
going on a long time. It drives breeding in the wrong directions,
unfortunately. One of the other things that I noticed about R in his ability
to be prophetic was his really famous article that pissed a lot of people off,
which was Ban the Indica. Do you remember that article at all? His Ban the Indica
article where he, in my opinion, prophetically tells everyone that
this thing's going to come in. It's going to dumb down weed. Weed's never going to be
the same. He was more of the trippy sativa. He liked that high,
that clear-headed high or that speedy, racy high. He felt like Indica's was
just going to completely come in, dumb it down, and the market would be mostly
Indica-dominant because of the ease of growth for indoors. It almost
told the tale of what happened with cookies and kush prophetically.
Timing on that article was right on the money because
the Indica's had basically made it into every nook and cranny of the
American market by that point. Anybody wanted seeds to grow an Afi could
find them. There was just so much variety. When you think about
the various paths that these seeds took, the connections that were made,
it's amazing to think about that network of genetics just
exploding overnight and spreading around the country. Two years earlier,
it was scarce as hen's teeth. Getting Indica in 1981,
hard to find, rare. Maybe not in the hills of NorCal,
but everywhere else. In two years, it was turned up overnight.
It was everywhere. Everybody had their own seeds and were growing it.
Maybe we can expand on this just a little bit because it's something I
want to drive home to a lot of the younger people. Based on
how often I see people make claims of having these Afghanis from the early
60s and even 40s in some cases. Can we drive home the point
when you both saw Afghanis enter the market? Either one of you on that
one. For me, it was when I met Rob Clark and bought my skunk
number one seed and he had Afghani number one. That was the first time
I had heard of it or really seen. I don't remember them. He gave me
a little free pack of a few compared to the mass of skunk number one
that we bought. I know I grew them maybe in a little side patch
or something. It was part of the genetics of skunk number one anyway.
It had Afghani in it. The leaves were medium sized. They weren't these
natal beautiful long needle sativas. Maybe it piqued our interest and
we were going, wonder why these leaves are so wide?
Do you remember them being smaller plants compared to the rest and
what the hell is going on here? I don't remember growing those
Afghani number ones, but that's where I first heard of them. When Clark
told me the genetics involved in skunk number one, I went, oh wow,
so it's in here too. I don't totally agree with R on that because we
have the ability to have all of them now. You can have land-raised
beautiful sativas from Nepal, some remote little zomia that you've
discovered and real seed company. Then you can have pure Afghans if you
want them. I guess, was it Tom Hill who had maple leaf or deep chunk?
Yeah, deep chunk.
Wasn't that a pure Afghani?
It was a hybrid of a few Afghanis.
He says it is. He says it's pure.
The maple leaf was Neville's stuff. As it spread around, he sold it under
different names and other people got the seeds from him, did their
selections and sold stuff under different names.
That was one of the early baselines, the maple leaf from him. One that an
Afghani that kept passing into other lines under different names,
definitely.
Deep chunk.
The maple leaf is possibly, supposedly the back end of super skunk and what
is making super skunk so skunky.
Well, you know it's Afghan tea, but Afghan tea is maple leaf.
The reason I say maybe is because there are also some theories even among
Neville's old partners that it was really Afghani one renamed Afghan tea,
which is possible. Especially knowing Neville, it's very possible because
he disliked Sam's skunk bin quite a bit by that point and giving him credit
for one of his best lines when he already had half the credit for NL5
Hayes.
Was probably not Neville's idea of things he was going to let happen.
That's my personal opinion and I know some of the other partners kind of
share that Afghani one theory.
Yeah, he certainly spoke, had nothing good to say about Afghani number one
when he was back on the forums.
But exactly.
It was interesting the language that he used. It was very non-specific. He
called it toxic in a bad way.
Like you needed to say like there's that good toxic, you know, right?
But it's not that one. It's the other one.
It's the bad toxic, right?
And that goes to the point of like I saw him like it.
Constantly referencing Afghani one, even at points where I'm like, huh, why?
Why are you bringing it up right now?
Stuff and they're talking about super stuff and he's bringing up Afghani one.
And I'm just like, it's almost like he's guilty to me.
Not guilty, but maybe his conscience coming out and being like, well,
here's a little hint.
Here's a little hint for the people actually give a shit.
Little breadcrumbs that I don't know.
I could be all in my head too.
You know, there were a lot of good lines around that didn't turn into these
legends that are sought after.
Those are the ones I wonder, you know, what happened if they would ever pop up
again? But I mean, Kyber, right?
Yeah.
That was that looked a lot like stuff I grew at the time.
And, you know, it was fire.
So, you know, I always wanted to get that.
But by the time I discovered seeds online, you know, it was already.
Yeah, it was already kind of the market was all screwed up.
The Dutch had totally screwed everything up.
You know, it's interesting to.
Side note, I just got this in.
OK, this is it's something that me and actually CSI mostly I found out about it
much later and we were told about it by Mustafunk.
And it is from the breeder of the Pakistani Chitral Kush.
And it's the whole record of the dude who bred it named Isidoro Rodriguez.
But it's all in Castilian.
So it's going to be fun to try to read it.
But the breeding of Chitral is all laid out in here in pictures and everything.
So props to Mustafunk for putting us in the right direction on that.
Yeah.
Now there's a guy you need to get on the interview.
Oh, my God.
Right.
Yeah.
Definitely.
Yeah.
Older Santa Marta, you know.
Yeah.
Or Ecuadorian or Peruvian or Bolivian.
It's true.
They were more into coca.
But I'm sure someone there had the ability to grow.
I'm looking for the article.
Can you tell me the.
The date on it.
For which?
For the R.
Yeah, the fifth.
This one is September of 19.
79.
79.
79.
Yeah.
0979.
And so it talks about the past five years that he's been there.
And it's in the first division he has is the age in plenty of variety.
Then they have the rise of the exotics, which is hilarious considering what they consider
exotics now, you know, the narrowing of the market.
We have the Colombian gold rush, the rise of fools, gold and the decline of Colombian,
the advent of seen some media, which I still think magic has something to do with and the
embryonic third generation and first signs of new hope, the age in plenty of variety.
And I mean, I don't know if I should be reading the whole thing, but generally speaking, we
have the menu here.
Here's an Ethiopian emperor stash.
Nice little dense nuggetry there.
And along with some cush, some this is an old picture of Afghani if it's 79.
Cush smoke.
Yeah, I remember these pictures.
I remember when this magazine came out and the colors on that page from that Ethiopian
emperor stash, the bright emerald green and the red, you know, it's just gorgeous.
And the way it was kind of similar condition to that, what they call cush smoke down below
it, you know, they both look like this wasn't something that was manicured and, you know,
putting up and protected.
It was something that was thrown in a baggie and carried around in a backpack for for sure
weeks.
You know, it looks like that.
And.
But I don't see a lot of seeds in the in the cush.
That Ethiopian definitely lit my imagination all the all the while back then, I still think
about, you know, could there be some something special in an Ethiopian wine?
I'm sure.
Yeah, especially these old ones.
And it has the menu here from the week of June 16th, 1974 for the prices.
So it shows like Mexican commercial at 200.
Well, Hockentops at 330, Mitchell walk on at 550.
Then you have the Colombian Reds, multi and gold.
And I remember when I was talking to one of the guys who would bring in Colombian in Florida,
you would always talk about how you had to buy a certain amount of Colombian rainbow,
I believe he called it, which was the multi like they're referring to here, just like
all of it kind of compressed and combined the reds, blacks, gold and or the bottom end
of that.
And then for every 10 kilos of that you would buy, you'd be able to buy like two kilos of
the black or one kilo of the red or one kilo of the gold.
I always thought that was fascinating that there was like some kind of market trade like
that where you can get you had to buy a certain amount to get the higher tier.
Looks like Panama Reds at the top in 74 as far as the the highest priced demand.
Oh, 600 a pound, whereas commercial Mexicans at 200.
So three times the price of shitty commercial Mexican being in all the time.
So it's talking about the rise of exotics here.
Yes, by the end of the first year, in addition to all the goodies on that menu above, almost
every time you showed up at Crosby's or similar smoking saloons, and I guess there were smoking
saloons somewhere, which that sounds fascinating for the time.
World needs more saloons.
Yeah, right.
New and exciting sample example of by the surprising second generation dopes.
By the end of the year, the menu would include the following premium price entries.
We have the Chaco Chiba or at least Chiba 65 Colombian per ounce, wacky weed, which is what
R talks about all the time, 75 an ounce and the Santa Barta gold for 60 an ounce.
So at that time, wacky weeds killing it, whereas the ties at 200 to 240 an ounce
per stick at 15 to 20 and Hawaiian at 160.
So significantly above the Colombian at the time.
Right here, you can see a picture of the Jamaican lamb's bread, very early picture of it.
And there's the wacky weed.
The Colombian wacky weed.
And do you want to explain why he called it wacky weed, bro?
No.
I don't think.
No, honestly, I never had anybody sell me anything called wacky weed.
Right.
So hearing these descriptions of it, I know Jaggi and I probably both are thinking this
sounds familiar, but it's like Mad Jag source of the candy bar, the black, highly compressed
super weed that was sliced off with a razor blade like hash.
Yeah.
You know, that's you hear similar kind of attributes or traits to the effect to this,
but it's definitely not the same thing because there was just that one farmer up there crafting
that out.
And I never saw anything like what they said of wacky weed.
Yeah.
It's a nickname in 1970 in Denver, there was a weed that I never saw again that they call
cartoon weed.
And when you smoke this, everything, you couldn't stop laughing from the moment you took the
first few puffs and you're just everything became a cartoon in the sense that you couldn't
hold back and stop laughing.
And it's a nickname.
It's a cartoon in the sense that you couldn't hold back and stop laughing.
And it was just fabulous.
More typical from when people eat cannabis, you know, they get into the giggles and then
maybe into just laughing so hard they have tears running down their eye out of their
eyes.
But cartoon weed, wacky weed, you know, nicknames that I guess if you smoked wacky weed, you'd
get whacked.
And it was just overly powerful.
Yeah, he refers to in a lot of these articles as he almost refers to it as if he thinks
maybe it's either a strain or expression or something that can be gotten more than once
from the same farmer.
And that it's an actual it seems like he's talking about like it's a strain.
But I think more than likely it was just highly compressed, really high end Colombian where
the oils have really soaked in, you know, to that bud, maybe even hash coated like our
oil hash oil compressed.
But yeah, it sounds like it just made people absolutely stupid and lose control of their
limbs.
A fellow I knew in Chicagoland in 1970, 71, had high school kids making tie sticks.
You had the same same little splinters of they were like bamboo stakes, little tiny
ones.
And he would pay these kids to sit and it was Mexican.
And it was good since Amir early stuff.
And he had them wrap the buds very carefully on these sticks because he could quadruple
the money he charged.
Easy.
Yeah, that's brilliant.
He was an early entrepreneur.
Yeah, that's it.
That's an entrepreneur, definitely an entrepreneur.
So lately, a lot of people have been talking about the Chaco Chivo Colombian, especially
since we did the chocolate tie episode a few days ago.
And right here it talks about the entrance of the Chiba, at least that region in Colombia
where stuff was imported from.
And it says, well, I was certainly the most glamorous among the new treats served up.
I think not enough credit has gone to Chiba, which for the sake of historical justice,
deserves a footnote as the first high level breakthrough to second generation quality
grass.
So they're referring to Chiba maybe as a second generation type Colombian gold or gold
type.
Chiba hit the stage shortly before tie and opened up a lot of minds to the higher possibilities
of grass, opened up a lot of wallets, too.
It was a closer to a psychedelic than any other previous grass available.
Breathtaking, rushy, super energetic and cerebral grass and demonstrated to the marijuana
marketers that people would pay seventy five dollars an ounce, almost double what they
were accustomed to if the grass was like Chiba, a quantum leap above the ordinary.
Chiba established the reality of the high priced gourmet market.
And after that, the supply began to match the demand.
And then it was talks about Chiba, followed by other Colombian specialties like the wacky
weed and the tie and and other stuff like that coming in.
And then it talks about the narrowing of the market.
And one of the first things to go was the Panama Red.
And today I know like there are people that sell different kinds of Panamanians out there.
But as far as what a true Panama Red is, I don't know if anybody agrees.
Can either of you comment on Panama Red or your experience with the red?
Or did you have any?
Well, you know, I didn't know whether what I got was Colombian red or Panama red.
I like to think it was Panama red.
It was certainly an amazing plant.
The weed itself was amazing.
You know, it's pretty, pretty lame descriptive words, but.
You know, I just looked up to see if when we gave up the Panama Canal to back to Panama,
I was trying to figure out what might have, you know, besides, you know, maybe they just
got tired of growing weed down there.
I don't know, you know, but what what would be the the reason for that?
Yeah, it didn't.
It looks like part of that happened during the Carter presidency, which would have would
have been the right around the right timeline.
Yeah.
Yeah, I don't know.
I'm not sure why.
But, you know, as far as the quality of that.
Of that.
Of that.
Of that.
Of that.
Of that.
Of that.
Of that.
Of that.
Of that.
Of that.
Of that.
Of that.
Weed.
You know, potent, tasty, unique effects, good effects.
But, you know, definitely in a kind of rarefied air like, you know, man, I hope I ever get
to smoke something this good again.
When it happens, you know it.
Yeah.
You know, it just was so uncommon that talking about it disappearing, you know, would have
been like, what you mean?
It's true.
I am never going to get to smoke this again for the rest.
Yeah.
I already believed it, you know.
Yeah.
You know, maybe maybe different people in different circles got that connoisseur stuff
flowing through nonstop like that.
That would have been amazing.
But that wasn't my experience.
What about you, Jack?
What was your experience with the Panama Fetty?
Four finger baggie for $15 in Denver, 1970.
1970.
That's early, man.
Well, 69 and 70.
I was in Denver 69, 70 and 71.
And it was excellent weed.
It was right up there.
It was at the advent of Sensimia where seedless weed was starting to separate itself from
the traditional seeded weed.
And less pressed from the super pressed.
Started to see, you know, even Oaxacan spears in entirety.
Just colas wrapped in cellophane.
Pressed lightly, but, you know, some big bundle in your arms might only weigh four pounds
or five pounds because it was.
And true, there was more stem that way.
But wow, for the quality of the spears, it didn't matter.
Panama Red, to me, was in that top tier back then, 1970, quality wise.
I don't remember the smell, the aroma.
But.
Yeah.
Do you remember it standing out any more than Colombian Gold or anything else?
I think it might have had an edge.
Well, it disappeared at some point pretty quickly and has, as R has explained, because
gold just, you know, the Colombians don't do anything small.
They're very organized.
So they started shipping not just tons, but freighters.
I met a guy who brought in freighters in like the East Coast of Florida with 250,000 pounds
in a load.
He eventually, he had too many employees.
I mean, just the offloaders on the docks, there was like 30 people.
And eventually someone got in trouble and they were facing big time and they rolled
and it went right up the chain to him.
And I probably bought my first ounce of weed in Denver from his group because they were
sending from these freighter loads to Chicago, Denver, New York, all the major cities.
And I think Colombian just eclipsed the Panama Red along with Mexican too.
It wasn't until Mexico got really focused on the Panama Red and the Panama Red, and
focused on high quality, you know, the Guerrero and the Sinaloa and the Oaxacan.
And they were mostly people bringing small loads like airplane loads where they didn't
have to have them sitting in a freighter for three weeks while it's coming up from Colombia.
But gold, gold was a very big presence, super presence when it came.
And it came big.
That's why I think people wanted it so badly, you know, because you might get some one time
that was super potent and then another one next time that was super moldy.
You know, it was very difficult unless you had an inside line to the importers themselves.
Yeah, where you could get the tops and the best parts of each pack.
Yeah, definitely.
Yeah, that's fascinating, man.
I wonder if I noticed in a lot of these bold articles, he repeatedly talks about the
disappearance of Colombian too, at some point that Colombian kind of died off for a while.
And, you know, it first was a Panama, then came Colombian.
And I wonder if it was just the push of Mexico being so much closer to the US and being that
it was so much easier to smuggle from Mexico than having to go all the way down to South
America for Colombian, move it all the way up until they had some kind of in route, worked
with the groups in Mexico to smuggle up for them, you know, and eventually Colombians did come back.
They made a return for a little bit.
And he talks about that in some of the later articles.
Yeah, you know, I think a lot of the rise of homegrown in America happened about the
same time that cocaine started taking over as far as what they wanted to fill their airplanes
with the smuggle.
You know, those two things happened about the same time.
So commercial Colombian, you know, the heyday of Colombian dominating the weed market,
it literally went away like over it.
It seemed like it was almost overnight.
You know, it's definitely over the course of one year, it went from, you know,
Colombian was everywhere to who wants that shit to you can't even find it anymore.
Yeah, right.
It just happened so fast with good homegrown showing up around the country, the indica
seeds showing up around the country all around that same 82, 83, 1983 time frame really is when
it was everywhere.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I have a photo here.
I'll see if it'll show up.
It goes along with what we're talking about.
Okay.
Yeah, on the share thing.
Well, I hear good.
Good.
It's Columbia's green, right?
This is an article that was, I think, let's see, in 2019, this was published, but it shows
all the major weed growing areas in the Calca Valley.
Cali is right up here, but at the bottom, Popeye on down here is a famous area, too.
So they have a lot of famous areas.
Yeah, I guess so.
These are all Highlands Highland.
See, Corinto.
Yeah.
Purple Corinto.
That's a famous one.
Yeah.
Really?
I have not heard that.
No.
So one of the quotes that are has here, it says gold looks so good that people became
conditioned to the notion.
If grass wasn't gold, it couldn't be good.
All that glitters is not great grass and not all great grass is gold.
And this to me, like as a person who grew up post, you know, it really heavily started
smoking in the 90s.
The idea of gold or brown weed to me was just like, oh, bummer, you know, but at some point
in the US, like we've talked about, people really did genuinely expect gold.
And people were trying to figure out home growers were trying to figure out how to get
their plants to dry gold because it just wasn't selling for a while.
And that's kind of what this is referring to.
Well, you know, this is this is like 76 or 77 there.
79.
Yeah.
Yeah, this is I mean, you just have to understand that it is a very small window of time where
markets transitioning and reacting to demand for something like like a color.
Right.
And how and how, you know, growers and middlemen around, you know, around the world are trying
to trying to make what they have sell.
Yeah.
So, I mean, we saw it with cookies and, you know, the wide variety of dessert weed out
there.
When cookies first came out, you know, it was the cut was hoarded, you know, didn't
exist in seed seed form.
You know, the people that had it, you know, everybody wanted it, but it didn't exist.
So the market invented it.
Right.
Just like what we were talking about, Matt, the other day was, you know, if you give people
the traits that the product has, they will change all their labeling without without
changing the content to the package.
Exactly.
Exactly.
So, I mean, you know, all of a sudden everybody had cookies, but nobody had cookies.
Right.
Yeah.
And that's the same thing with this gold, except back then, I mean, we were stupid because
it was the 70s and, you know, you could get away with being stupid, but people would do
things physically to the weed to try and change the color, you know, putting it out in the
sun.
I mean, you want if you want to know how to kill cannabinoids, that's that's how you kill
cannabinoids.
Right.
In the sun.
Yeah.
Right.
Just stick it right out there.
Yeah, it's gold.
But now nobody gets high.
Yeah.
Or girdle it, you know, like they talked about that stabbing the stem in the middle.
Yeah.
All that sort of, you know, things to stress the plant and make it make it die a particularly
colorful death.
Well, you remember hanging a plant upside down at harvest was supposed to make it more
potent because the red tops went downhill from in from the stock into the flowers.
Remember that that old wives tale that if you hung it upside down, the THC would spike
to the top of the tops.
Oh, yeah.
Got to have the juices, you know.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So this is interesting.
Or people understood trichomes and.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, exactly.
This is this is interesting.
So it looks like right here, our answer is the question on if Santa Marta was the first
golds to hit.
It actually looks like Chiba was the first wave of Colombians and Santa Marta started
in seventy four to seventy five.
This is Santa Marta was an authentic high level gold.
It didn't have the psychedelic upper reaches of Chiba, but it was powerful and energetic,
a very up high.
More than that, Santa Marta set a new standard for beauty that pleased the physical senses.
It was pretty to see with its plump blonde buds bursting with pollen, fir flowers.
It smelled delicious with the fresh, spicy, pequit, peppery, flowery fragrance.
It tasted especially good, tangy, warm and spicy on the tongue with a fruity tinge that
it tested.
I hate when it does this.
It tested to its flowery freshness.
So there's some pretty good descriptions of Colombian.
Would you guys agree with some of those descriptions of what you saw?
Yeah, I mean, he he he dances around some of it, I think, you know, he hints at some
of the wood or incense type traits that are there.
It's an amazing combination with, you know, the buttery, hashy, citrusy kind of tangy,
I think is what I read a word he used in some of these articles.
You know, still got that to have those kind of high notes mixed with the earthy, wooden,
incense stuff.
It makes it very hard hitting as a as a combination, you know, incense with with citrus
can can really can really deliver the goods.
I bet.
Well, being 45 years ago, I can't really tell you.
Honestly, it would be a stretch, but I'm sure it was it was hashy.
Did you think it was hashy tasting?
No, I wouldn't call Santa Marta hashy or.
Maybe those those blacks, the blacks from Columbia could go that way, but even even
the wacky weed or the candy bar my friend had, though you had to cut it like it was
hash, it didn't smoke like hash it it was well I'll take that back.
It might be equivalent to smoking hash in a joint because my friend in Tempe used to
in Tempe used to roll joints out of hash that he crumbled up and they were little pin joints,
but boy, they were potent.
So maybe there, but I don't remember this being at all Santa Marta being at all.
Hashy.
It was just a delicate high.
You know, it was it was an up high.
Maybe that's what was so special.
Well, Hocken was similar at the beginning.
Just a super space shot.
You know, you just went up higher and higher kind of psychedelic.
I think that's where they applied the word psychedelic to some weeds.
Though at the time, most of us were also experimenting with psychedelics, so it's
kind of hard to decide when we were accurate and when we weren't.
Here's a new interesting one.
It says a promising new entry in 77, for instance, was the Manizales Black.
Have you guys ever heard of this one?
Not by that name, but I know where the Manizales is.
Where's that at?
Well, that map of the Cauca, I think it was on in that area.
Let me look at it.
I can look at it on my desktop here.
Yeah.
Nope.
I think Manizales was one of the lowland West Coast areas.
Yeah.
I'll bring up a quick Google view.
Yeah, that's Mexican there for sure.
Well, Hocken tops and right here is a picture of the Chiba.
And like I said, this has been brought up a lot lately.
The Chiba, the Chaco Chiba.
I guess maybe some seed companies are playing with some purported Chiba, but this is what
it actually looked like documented back in 1979.
The real Chiba right here.
As best we know, it's the real Chiba anyways.
Well, it's a real name.
Yeah.
Well, the thing is, I always try to remind people, I'm not sure about it this time,
but later on, high times would use pretty much any picture they wanted to and insert
it and just put a name on top of it.
And that did happen when they didn't have a picture handy for something.
So a lot of times, especially during the 80s and 90s and on into the 90s, it became standard
practice.
If you look at like some of the chem dog pictures, like the pictures of chem dog over the years
are not even related to it.
It was just stock photos.
So but I think during this time, these probably are not stock photos.
I'm guessing.
No, no, that'll walk in.
That's that's that looks legit.
I remember when it came out thinking, yeah, OK.
So it looks it sounds like during the summer of 76 was the big drought, like the first
real hit of drought in the United States and just getting really crappy weed was coming
in.
You know, it's one thing that people get confused about this, they don't understand that the
United States was not just this one monolithic market.
Yeah.
And so even though High Times writes about it that way often, because, you know, it's
just a much better story to just tell, tell intimately what's happening right there around
you, you know, instead of saying, I think it might be dry in Tucson.
You know, I mean, yeah, you know, talk about where you are as if that's the center of the
world and everybody else will kind of ride along with you.
But, you know, the market was divided up into, you know, thousands of little micro markets
that you just, you know, one place you could get one thing all the time, another place,
you know, they would kill to have that.
But they've got everything else.
I'm sure.
And it's just you can't people today, they get really confused when they read this old
stuff.
They think, you know, that's that was America.
Yeah.
Right.
America is too big for that for for that to be, you know, it's this is just a tiny little
snapshot of and it's accurate, you know, for for that moment in time and that place.
Yes.
But it's America's big place.
Yeah, it was probably accurate for New York, which is where they thought the center of
the world was at high times, like notoriously, you know, right.
Like the group of the 20 most famous potheads in New York.
Exactly.
Right.
With everybody bringing them all their best shit on a regular basis.
Oh, interesting.
Ed Rosenthal's referenced here.
According to the grass growing expert, Ed Rosenthal, the longer grass lies around, the
greater the disintegration of the high inspiring cannabinoids into the creator cannabinoid
cannabidiols.
These latter, according to Rosenthal, give us confused, sleepy, dizzy, fuzzy undertone
that undercuts the clarity of the cannabinoid highs.
So he's talking about early CBD and stuff.
I don't know.
I know a lot of people say CBD, sleepy and all this kind of CBN.
When the CNC degrades, it turns to CBN.
Manizales is straight west of Bogota.
It's the Colombians coffee growing region, and it's 7000 feet elevation.
So wow.
Manizales black would be.
Probably pretty potent.
Yeah, I would think so.
High elevation, probably really dark black weed from the from the weather.
Yeah, sounds good.
Might have been.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, it sounds delicious.
I mean, I always wanted to go down there and visit my friend, but it was the kidnap capital
of the world at that time and into the 90s even.
Then Mexico took over as the kidnap come.
But if you were an American, there was someone who was always willing to grab you because
someone would care about you enough to pay money.
And I just I just couldn't see doing it.
So I never went down.
Yeah, sorry.
Let's say they would have gotten all your stickers to.
Yeah, right.
They confiscate them, right?
So right here he says, since Amelia is the surfer girl of dope, missing the wild, trippy
exoticism of the best imported weed and the soaring cerebral central reaches of tying
Hawaiian.
So I guess what he's referring to since Amelia here is just a general term for stuff like
homegrown without seeds, even local homegrown.
It looks like based on what he's writing around here.
You know, so yeah, one thing one thing you pick up from that, you know, it's he's talking
about basically it just doesn't have legs.
It doesn't have the the depth of power and complexity and effects.
But, you know, that's honestly those first couple of years when when, you know, domestically
grown weed was taking over that market.
There was a lot of stuff that didn't that was harvested before it was mature.
Oh, sure.
And so when you read what he says, you know, it's kind of like this this empty headed surfer
girl, you get high and then you're not high and it's over.
You know, that's think about it for a second.
This is these are new growers, their first crop or two, you know, harvested early.
It looks good, but it's not packing the full punch.
It's not because of genetics.
It was because of, you know, growers learning how to deal with those with, you know, how
to produce the product that their customers really wanted.
So, yeah, in their area, I mean, they were the pioneers of it.
So it wasn't like there was tons of books or tons of resources to go learn how to grow
this properly or when to harvest or any of that.
This is also new at that time.
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, it was, you know, just, you know, bringing it to maturity is is not easy, especially
when you know this is before the full indica invasion took place.
So there was still a lot of highly worked hybrids that were just barely getting it done
before the frost.
It mentions even Congolese black here, which I'm kind of surprised there is a it's something
called Tanganyika green.
Never heard of that.
Never heard of it.
Some kind of African grass.
One of the forums that I've been on, there was a fellow from Namibia and he sent me some
seeds from the country just north of him, Angola.
And they've been growing weed there for Angola red is one of them.
And yeah, I've never grown them.
I still have them, but it's supposed to be pretty potent.
Was that the Lomona Negra Angola red that you got?
No, it's actually from a fellow who lives in Namibia and got them himself.
That's cool.
Namibia is famous for the, it's sort of like the lost coast.
It's sand dunes that come down to the ocean.
And for the longest time, it was closed to people because diamonds washed up onto the
shores.
Oh, wow.
That have been released from certain geological structures underwater or something.
Yeah, he's, he got on himself.
I know who Lomona Negra, Mustafung talked a bit about him.
Yeah.
That's another whole show in itself.
Yeah, yeah.
He was a very well admired guy, but I think there may, for people who are really anal
about things being either pure or not, that's where some of the fuzziness comes in with
Lomona Negra.
But he did do some cool stuff, at least a lot of cool stuff.
Yeah, you know, this, this, the whole thing about the Tanganyika green there and Congolese
black and all this stuff, you know, sometimes you read R and it's like he, it's like he's
a travel journalist, you know, telling you about these far off, you know, vistas and
castles and, you know, raging rivers of, you know, far flung, fantastic places.
You know, that's, he's, he's a storyteller.
He really is.
And, you know, he understood the power of evoking this sort of exotic, you know, life
of adventure around all this stuff.
He was, he was, he was creating a, a legend, you know, for that, that about all the, all
the adventurous stuff people were doing out there.
And he was probably taking a lot of exotic license with, with the stories he told.
But man, I mean, what a, what a job he did, you know, I mean, great wordsmith.
Definitely.
Yeah.
Well, look at the different generations he's inspired just sitting here, you know, like
many years separate us, you know, and if not, so was here, that's a whole another generation,
you know, in there.
And, and to this day, he's still inspiring people.
I don't know how easy he will be or won't be to get ahold of.
I do hope that somehow someone shows him this episode, whether, I mean, his name's
out there.
You can easily find it.
His name's Ron Rosenbaum.
So if anybody does know him and can get in contact with the author, Ron Rosenbaum, I'd
love to speak to him.
All of us would.
So, yeah, maybe this is our, our way to reach out to him.
Yeah.
Huge fan of R and, you know, the idea of, of getting him on the show and, you know,
getting us to tell stories about what his life was like at the time.
And, you know, what, I mean, because he was so far ahead of his time as far as lifestyle,
you know, I mean, geez, man, half the people on Instagram are basically telling their own
stories, basically like he was telling the story of a generation of outlaws, you know.
Yeah.
Um, influencer.
Just, you know, viral marketing.
Absolutely.
Just like, you know, skateboarding did in the 70s for, you know, for that sport.
This, he was kind of like this, did the same thing for, uh, of any, of anyone like, I know
Sam beats his drum and stuff, but I think this dude probably inspired quite a few more
people than Sam did.
I mean, honestly, like with his position in life.
I agree with you there.
Yeah.
He's a counterculture hero and a king maker and, uh, you know, the, the scribe of, of
an era.
Really was.
I, I, I, I'm trying to hold back on, you know, my praise for the guy.
Um, but if we can get him on, that would be the best.
What an honor.
Yeah.
You know, I wanted to ask you, remember, I wanted to ask you about what, what your, um,
conversations with Neville were like back during those Mr. Nice days.
I guess we don't have to do it this time, but I'm writing it down for the next one.
Yeah.
With Neville.
Yeah.
That would be cool.
I mean, just from a personal, you know, here I am talking with, you know, the real king
of cannabis, no bobblehead.
Yeah.
And, you know, just like he's another guy, you know, we, we share this passion and it's
just.
I remember, I remember the first time he responded, um, it was on the actual forum and it
was just like him chiming in a little bit and responding to me directly.
And I remember that fucking it's, it's, it's not so nerdy to say it now, but I got this
like exhilarating feeling in my chest.
Like, I just, I just spoke to the dude, the dude responded to me, you know, like it was
that really special feeling where, you know, I, and for me, I had spent a lot of my, my
early career, as you saw, like rubbing a lot of people the wrong way with how I approached
everything and to be able to get a response from someone like that.
And for him to take me seriously, not only that, take the time to talk to me.
And then to, to have some sort of form of respect and admiration for each other and
become peers was probably one of the most special moments of my life at that time.
Because I didn't feel like I earned it, but he was still giving me that respect.
So it was special.
He was very generous that way, wasn't he?
Yeah, he was absolutely.
He never treated me like, Oh, you're just some dumb kid.
Let me tell you how it was.
It was never like that.
He was wanting, he wanted to know more about the American scene, um, the American clones.
He was more specifically interested in.
So while I was asking him stuff about the old stuff that I was interested in and his
experiences, he was asking me more about bubble cush OG kush.
What was in those?
Where did they come from?
He was more interested in chasing down the lineages of stuff that he didn't know about
and trying to trace it back to his own work.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Cause he was, he was absolutely positive.
Pretty much everything that we were covening over here by that point had, had come, come
all go gone through his hands and come back here and, you know, worked.
But, uh, I'm not sure he's terribly wrong, you know, like he, he might even be right
still.
That's the most nuts about all of it.
Yeah.
At the time I thought he was a little nuts on, on a lot of it, but, um, I did too.
Time has proven it to be more true than we would have liked, I guess.
Yeah.
I thought it was a lot of arrogance, to be honest with you.
Like how, how would you know, how would you know, you know, but over time, as I talked
to him, I realized he was able to see and identify traits long before he could smell
the bud just by sight.
And that was something I'd never seen before.
Some of you could identify traits and lines just through sight.
That's a special, special talent.
A lot of people think they can do it, but not a lot of people can do it with many, many
strains.
You'd be lucky if you could do that with one strain in your life, you know?
Yeah.
You know, for me, it kind of made me a little sad because, um, you know, the realization
that so much of what's around is directly related to his work.
Um, it makes me sad for all the thousands of heirlooms that got worked in the hills
and the seeds never made it out to nevel.
Um, you know, the diversity that, I mean, just staggering, you know, and for the longest
time, it, it confused the hell out of me that people seem so obsessed with, well, okay,
if that's that, then it must be this plus this plus this as if, you know, they were
in the, you know, individual plants like skunk one was, was a cutting.
Yeah.
And when everybody used it, they all used the same thing, you know?
Yeah.
And Northern lights was a cutting and everybody, when they use that, it was always the same
thing.
Yeah.
Um, you know, but, but damn, man, there's just been so much, so much reuse and, and
renaming and, um, inbreeding on inbreeding on inbreeding.
And it just, it just seems like so much of what we have to work with today came straight
through Neville's hands at one point.
I think, I think, I think with the resurgence of, uh, legalization, especially in areas
like Mendocino and Humboldt, I'm hoping anyways, and I, and I've seen some examples of this
brief examples, um, that some of these lines that didn't necessarily make it to Neville,
but stayed in certain areas of Humboldt and Mendocino and were kept worked by these guys
who just wanted nothing to do with being in public.
Yeah.
Some of those do still exist and being passed to their protege is, you know, is there, is
there, um, going to their next destination and spiritual journey, you know, before that,
some of them have passed it to their protege is I know, uh, I know Tom Hills, um, would,
would you would consider probably a mentor type is, is recently, um, talking about giving
him a bunch of the stuff, you know, stuff that was used to make like PTK, you know,
a lot of those lines.
So that's going to be interesting, you know, so there are little, um, little sections,
little treasure chests out there, but I think it's way far fewer between them.
We could ever want or anticipate, unfortunately.
And it seems like over time Neville really was the time capsule to save a lot of this
stuff.
Cause it's the only way we still have a lot of it.
Yeah.
And look, if it does become available, it's going to be crossed with cookies and OG and
cam and, and instantly, you know, I mean, it's, I don't know.
I just, um, I, sometimes I get depressed when I think about what's been lost, but then I
look around and see what we've got right now.
It's, it's pretty fantastic.
And, um, you know, the idea that there could be some of those treasures out there, like
what you're talking about, uh, just, just waiting to pop up again.
I hope you're right.
I'm just trying to stay optimistic and, you know, maybe, maybe it'll happen in my lifetime.
I've been waiting a long time.
It's very possible.
Some of this stuff to happen.
So it's very possible.
I mean, we got treasures like you and Mad Jag popping up.
So anything's possible guy.
Anything's possible.
That's the way I look at it.
With a mustache like Mad Jags for sure.
Exactly.
Exactly.
Pretty much go anywhere with a mustache like that.
Opens every door.
Yeah.
So do you guys want to get anything in before we sign off?
Um, how did not so dog get his handle?
Not so dog.
Um, so he was going and meeting up with a friend to buy some chem dog weed and his friend was
showing him some of the bud and he looked at it and goes, this is not so dog, bro.
Cause they used to refer to chem dog is dog.
He's like, this is not so dog.
And it just kind of stuck with them after that.
You know, and it wasn't him dog.
It was something else.
So that's how he actually got his thing.
And it, oddly enough, it was at a, a, a really well-known rest stop.
So yeah, that's a hidden part of the story.
Rest stop action.
If not, so.
Oh my God.
Now I'm pretty sure that's the joke there.
You got anything Raho?
No, no.
I just, uh, you know, always a pleasure to be guest here and, and, you know, thanks for
your interest, Matt.
Oh man.
It's always a pleasure to have you two with me and, um, yeah, next round we'll get into
it further and hopefully I'll do a little more, um, setup so that I don't leave it all
on you guys to try to figure out.
We'll have some microphones too, I think.
Yeah.
Brand new microphone should be there.
Yeah.
That's right.
That's right.
We're not going to be styling with new microphones.
No, no.
My pleasure.
My pleasure.
Thank you.
All right.
All right, you guys, we're going to sign off.
Thank you from everyone here at Breeder Syndicate.
Thank you, Madjag.
Thank you, Raho.
And we'll see you next week.
Okay.
Want to sit at the table with the Syndicate?
Check out our Patreon in our link tree or description below.
Our merch site is officially live.
We have all sorts of shirts, hoodies, and goodies to sort you out and shipping is super
fast and most importantly, the quality is top notch.
I've been saving old designs for years for this purpose, so please check it out.
Syndicategear.com.
We also have an underground Syndicate Discord where we get together and solve old strain
history together daily.
It's an amazing community of learning away from IG and it's an amazing resource for old
catalogs and knowledge.
We hope you join our union of breeders and growers.
Come check it out.
Breeder's Syndicate Update.
Not only is our merch store up at syndicategear.com, but all episodes will remain free.
But what we need from you is interaction.
If you're watching the show for your first time, kick back and enjoy it.
If you like the show, feel free to like it.
But if it's your second viewing, we ask a gentle person's agreement that you click the
subscribe button.
It costs you nothing, but it helps us tremendously with the sneaky YouTube algorithm.
Leaving comments, telling not to his voice lulls you into a trance works as well.
We hope you take the time to do this.
We try to put out the best possible shows for you we can and want to build this community.
Thanks again from all of us at the Breeder's Syndicate family.
