So I decided to do a quick video about the Cosmic Boogie poster. I know there is
a website out there that goes over each individual little thing on it, but a lot
of people have not been able to find really good, you know, images about it or
of it. It's really hard to find. It's impossible to find an original. This is
an original, but I wanted to go over it with you for all you Haze fanatics and
strain whores out there so you can see what makes this poster so special. So
first we have the signs of the Zodiac if you look. Scorpio, that's all I know,
Leo, the fucking or whatever that is, some scales and weed. Yeah, so they
have the constellations up here. I'm not sure, let's see what that is. Not quite
sure what that is. Oh, it's just a bud. It's just a tall bud, I forget. That's how
Haze looked. Yeah, so you got that. It references the silver and the blue Haze.
It references magenta and gold. Those are the four original types of Haze.
The original Haze. Connoisseur's choice, cultivated, California cannabis. Let's see what it says
right here. Let's see if I can get it to focus for you. I can't quite get it to focus. In nature we trust, Americana, 1976. No seeds. My
favorite part, honest weight. There's the scales because, you know, back then people
would fucking fuck with the weights. Warning, in some states cannabis is
illegal. All right, here we go. The Cosmic Boogie, 1976. Now, the Cosmic Boogie, this is
where it gets its name from the poster. In clandestine locations sparsely
scattered throughout California, a few dedicated farmers cultivate the herb
cannabis as a way of life. Anyone can grow weeds and see the virgin greens, but
to cultivate the exotic Queens beyond your dreams, you should have dedication,
sensitivity to plant life, consistency, and a little basic knowledge. Good karma
and a great desire to find harmony with mama nature. The basis for any strong
healthy plant is the soil it grows in. Resin producing herbs grow best in soil
that is neutral to semi-sweet. Larger the bush or tree, whatever it may be, the
larger the root structure needed to support it. Roots develop mostly freely
in a loose rich soil. Mix one yard of soil compound of 30% mushroom compost, 30%
redwood sawdust, 40% sandy loam topsoil. Mix organic nutrients, three pounds of...
what does that say? Boof? Three pounds of hoof and horn meal. Three pounds of boof.
Hoof and horn meal, five pounds of rock phosphate, four pounds of kelp, one pound
natural compost, one pound soil iron, five pounds gypsum, and five pounds of dolomite.
This is supposed to be the recipe they use to grow the haze. Who knows? Mix soil
and minerals thoroughly and let sit for at least one week. Then check the soil
with a soil testing kit for pH and add agricultural lime to bring pH to 7.5 to 8.5.
Spring arrives and with it comes new life, fresh spirit, and a great hope for the new crop.
Plant your favorite seeds on the 6th or 7th of April. The moon is in cancer,
best sign for planting, above ground herbs. In May, the 3rd, 4th, and 5th are good.
If you're still not together, try June 8th and 9th while the moon is in Scorpio.
When you irrigate, make sure that the moon is in one of these signs when possible.
Cancer is the most excellent time to irrigate. Taurus, Scorpio, and Pisces are also good for
irrigation. Pruning should be done only in the third quarter. Patience is the real secret and
the true test. Try to make it until December 10th or 11th when the moon is in Leo and harvest
conditions are perfect so you can dig it. In nature we trust. The spirit of 76 and it says
right here, copyright 1975, Robert Lund. And this is signed by Granddaddy Mike. He raffled this off
I think at Seattle Hemp Fest or something. That's where this got loosened from his grips
and ended up with me. Lots of love everyone. Hope you enjoyed.
