This is the riot seeds advanced germination tutorial. I used to have a
pictorial up a long time ago the pictures disappeared off the site so I
decided to do a video and keep it updated. First part here I'm showing you
all the components you'll need from beginning to finish. Over there
antibacterial soap, hydrogen peroxide. This isn't necessary but I like to use
green soap to keep my hands super clean and ensure that everything in the
environment is pretty spotless. Something you're not seeing I clean the counters
with green soap just so there's no potential contamination that's what
we're trying to avoid here. Over there that is 200 milliliters of distilled
water. There's a pair of scissors you may or may not need depending on
what you're going for. If it's a hard seed to crack and it won't crack on its
own and won't let water in on its own we're gonna use the scissors but if not
let it be. You have a ziploc baggie, a dropper, a sharpie, a paper towel, and some
tape. Tape will be at the end. Anyway let's start. Let's see let me get a new
piece of paper towel there. I like to have a piece of paper towel on the
counter just in case anything goes wrong. In case any little bit of contamination
is still there. It's just that one extra barrier. So what I do is I fold the paper
towel into I think eighths. That's what it is. One, two, that's it into quarter. Quarter
size right now and then one more time into eighths. Now this is the most important part.
This is a part nobody ever fucking talks about. The biggest reason seeds don't
germinate and they actually do germinate but what's happening is a bacterial process is
stopping it from completing germination. Oh shit first before all that wash your fucking
hands. I already did this so I'm not gonna show that on it'd be too hard to show it anyways but
wash your fucking hands. Wash it with antibacterial soap right away. Make sure everything's clean. Like
I said I use green soap right after that to make sure that my hands are completely fucking spotless.
You don't want bacteria getting to the taproot. But yeah with the germination process a lot of
people think seeds don't germinate if they come out a little bit and get mushy. No they're
germinating. Bacteria is getting to the taproot. That means you are almost there but some kind of
contamination happened. That's what we want to avoid. So we use 3% hydrogen peroxide. This is
hydrogen peroxide you can get at any, this is Walgreens I think. We have a dropper here. Now
there's 2,000 milliliters give or take 100 or 200 milliliters in this pitcher. This pitcher has
been thoroughly cleaned with green soap too. It's a little old so it looks beat up but trust me it's
clean. Alright so we get our dropper. Let me see if I can do this so you can see it. Get our dropper
put a little bit of hydrogen peroxide in it. I don't know if that got any. Yeah it did. Okay so
you see hydrogen peroxide right there. We put three drops in this whole thing. One, two, three. Good.
Just dump out the remaining shit. Take this little wand just so you don't have to have an extra tool
available and stir that shit. Make sure the hydrogen peroxide is in there very well. Good.
Also this goes in the water. Everything needs to be washed. What I do is I just spray everything
with green soap at the beginning. Everything. Then wipe it down. Okay now we can take the
paper towel. Put it in there. Put it in the water. You want to wring it out because this is this is
too much. That will cause problems. But that is just enough. Not sopping wet. Still pretty moist
so the water has enough water to get in. Not excessively dripping. That's perfect. Here one
second I have to put you down while I grab the seeds. In this case we're gonna be using Williams
Wonder. These are the last few seeds I have of it. So there's only gonna be a few seeds in here guys.
The Williams Wonder seeds. And we pat that down. Okay so you take the seeds in my hand. There are
three. And you place them evenly across the top. So there's enough room when you fold this paper
towel over on itself to have the taproot grow. Right there. Like so. You take this. Fold it over
the top. So right there. Pat it down. Then you get your Ziploc baggie. Label it. Normally I would
just put WW but my brain might force me to think that's White Widow and I would not be cracking
some White Widow. I'm trying to write this while looking through the phone so I'm writing like a
half-tard. There we go. You put that bitch. You guys like this all one-handed? Shit. Any seeds fall
out? See? Trying to fuck around and that's what happens. Alright. Put the seed back in. Take this.
And we put it in the baggie. I'm gonna have to put it down to put it in the baggie. And then I'll bring you back and show you what I did. Now some people question this part but
there's a good explanation for it. Next I will take tape and like so stick it to the top of that. And
then I like to put it in a dark place where it can be suspended. One second. The reason I do that...
Hmm. That didn't work out so well. The reason I do that is so gravity can act on the seedlings and
the taproot will grow downwards. Instead if you leave it flat on its back like if I replace it
right here downwards the taproot sometimes grows in a circle you know trying to grow downwards.
It's always gonna try to grow down with gravity. So in this case you won't have curly Q seedlings
that are really hard to plant. And I just shut the cabinet. Voila fucking la. That's how it works
folks. Be sure to visit www.riotseeds.nl for the most dank rare genetics on earth. Fuck everyone else.
