Okay, how's everyone doing?
I'm still sick from last week, so I'm gonna do my best to trooper on through it.
I checked this out.
This is fucking great.
This is fucking great.
Like a few years ago, and I didn't think about it.
Oh shit.
Shit, little old jeezel eyes ones.
How fucking cool is that gonna be?
What's up?
How goes it?
I found this pack and I was like, Oh my God, there's a shitload of Jesus ones in here.
Oh, cool.
But then I remember these are the fake display seeds that I used to put on the counter at
Emerald Cup.
So snag them, they wouldn't get anything.
Damn, got by myself.
You know, like I can't tell you how much it makes me sad sometimes when I find old seeds.
Yeah.
And then none of them pop.
Yeah.
It's from like hope and excitement and joy to like worry to like, oh man.
Yeah.
And you know what?
I just got this in and I'm gonna show it off because it's our buddies.
This is seriously a nice fucking presentation.
Like the terpene kits from Crybaby.
This is I mean, that's nice, dude.
It's like pro fish.
I mean, it'll be good.
He's down.
We got a plan to have him on to talk terpenes.
I know.
I wanted to show it off for him so people can see before we do the episode.
It's pretty professional.
There's all kinds of cards in here that just describe everything.
It tells you how to go through it.
Lots of tips and tricks.
What's interesting about it is like they, you know, they have those kind of things for
perfumes and like, yeah, I had some friends that were studying because I live in wine
country right like studying to be someone.
Yes.
And in order to do that back then like this is like 18 years ago or something.
They would buy these like thousand dollar kits.
And the aromas were there to teach them like what an advanced taster was tasting or smelling
when they like, you know, we're talking about Merlot or whatever.
And they were talking about woodsy notes with hints of raspberry and all that.
They had to be able to like learn the language.
They had like a whole book and all these scents and all this different stuff.
And so for terpians with weed, it's like teaching people how to talk about smell.
Yeah, that's a big part.
It's a big thing if you can if you can do it too.
And it's probably like most breeders and weed nerds biggest week area.
Yeah, I know it is for me.
I'm not I'm not a terp expert by any stretch of the imagination.
No, definitely not.
Neither am I, you know, and neither are a lot of our friends.
Yeah, you know, so I mean, there's an aspect where it's like, it's just you just lack the
language because you don't encounter how to talk about that language anywhere.
Yeah, really?
For terpians and like wine sommeliers, it's all about using your eyebrows and like, and
your eyes to express.
Yeah, you know, I mean, it's and then it's all relative to that human beings ability
to taste.
Yeah, I have I have a really bad sense of smell.
So my taste is really off to you know, like the whole the whole shebang sucks.
Up upstairs here in this region.
Right?
Yeah, the whole everything.
Everything in this region is sucking.
We're slowly climbing up there.
Yeah, yeah.
It's weird when I have to do it on this fucking account.
Like most people don't know to follow it, even though I said it.
So are you still shadow banned or whatever on the other one from doing live?
I checked it this morning and it was like, Nope, you cannot do lives.
Oh, man.
Yeah, well, it is what it is.
It is what it is.
I'm used to it by now.
But yeah, no people should we're gonna do a whole episode.
I'm not exactly sure when, but we're gonna have our buddy crybaby on and he has a lot
of knowledge and language around aromas, terpene, scents, what causes smells, what
are the components of it.
And he'll be able to speak a lot more intelligently than either Matt or I can.
Yeah, I think, you know, so that'll be soon.
I hope he was the one that was first telling me to stop calling skunky shit terps.
I was like, oops.
Yeah, they're like the alls and like, yeah.
But what's interesting about that is even like the more like rambling for a while waiting
for people to show up.
But even what's interesting about, you know, the thing about the alls and stuff is how
they're volatile.
Yeah, right?
Yeah, terpenes are longer lasting.
And I would always notice about the old super skunk that I had that the last two or three
weeks before harvest and the first month after cutting it, it was just rank.
Yeah.
But if you kept it long enough, even if, you know, in a nice jar in the dark or whatever,
it would eventually just kind of turn into generic green bud.
Did you find that the more it kept its moisture content, the longer it lasted in the as it
evaporated?
Yeah, certainly.
It was actually kind of tough because it was one of those nugs that you were like, it was
famous for like looking dense, but weighing light.
Yeah, yeah.
You put this thing that you think was a huge nug and you're like, oh man, this thing's
massive and it's like 2.8 grams.
Yeah, you know, it just it had like, but it had really good like air to air to bud ratio
so it burned really well.
Yeah, terry acane is very similar.
You could use snappers of it.
Some bud like like cushions, especially in a lot of this cookie shit.
You really have to cure it right to get it to burn well.
Yeah.
You know, but but, you know, super skunk, you could burn that like pretty quick.
Yeah, it just had like a good amount of air.
It sounds like Denali saved that cut from a panda.
Oh, that's good.
Yeah, I'm real stoked about that.
So we're up over it.
We're 108 110 people.
Maybe we could start chatting.
Yeah.
Do you want to answer a few questions first?
And then maybe it'll get up higher a little bit.
Yeah, I haven't even fucking looked to be honest.
I've just been bullshitting.
Someone has asked about mango Hayes.
I could talk about mango Hayes.
It's a mango.
Mango.
Mango Hayes is like a super nice line from Shanti Baba and Neville.
It's an L five Hayes by skunk Hayes.
It's a sister to super silver Hayes.
And it uses this famous cut called the 122 or the mango, which is like my favorite and
L five Hayes cut.
And it's still alive over there.
I think it's still Scholden coffee shops and Johnsy has it apparently.
Yeah, but yeah, it's it's a little bit more hazy.
It's a little it's a little like it's got a little bit more of the flavors that I like.
It's got less terpenelein.
Yeah, super silver Hayes.
It doesn't tend to yield as much.
But it's a super nice plant.
And I think it's likely one of the ones where he still has the right parents.
Yeah, I can't say for nobody can say for sure.
But I think people still find really nice plants in that line.
Yeah, they do.
So it's not just a there is a clone only mango Hayes too, I believe.
I don't know if it's from the same seed line.
But I know Miami mango has that one.
And it's it's like terpenelein and mango.
It's one of my favorites.
It's like, I've seen some tests on it.
And it's terpene content is pretty off the charts.
Yeah, pretty high.
And yeah, so that's mango Hayes.
It's kind of mango Hayes and super silver and Neville's Hayes are kind of like the final
three Hayes that came out.
Yeah, at the end of like one whole era.
Yeah, you know.
So that's starting at the end, not the beginning.
But you know, let's see.
Skunk Hayes.
A lot of people in Europe don't like the skunk Hayes quite as much because they felt the
skunk aspects kind of overpowered the the Hayes like the more delicate Hayes aspects
that they liked.
That's why they were always kind of looking for like bland indica is to cross it to.
Yeah.
To allow you know, they kind of wanted like very little terp cuts.
Yeah, blend it to to see if the Hayes terps would come through.
So anyway, I don't know.
We're gonna we're gonna chat about Hayes tonight, which is a super controversial subject.
So a disclaimer, this is just kind of like our opinion on it.
And like what we see.
Yeah.
In the forum days, when things got started, some of the longest running threads ever,
were arguments between all these old timers over Hayes.
On Cannabis World, on Overgrow, probably on IC Mag.
It would just go sometimes it would go into the hundreds of pages.
Yeah.
Of people battling back and forth over what was the real Hayes story.
One of my good friends over on Mr. Nice did probably what I think was the best treatise
on Hayes, like overview on Hayes during that time before any anybody else had really been
able to track down anyone to talk to.
It was my friend Big Herb off Mr. Nice.
I see there's someone with that name in here, but I don't think it's the same dude.
It would be awesome if I remember him on Mr. Nice, for sure.
Herb was a cool dude.
I haven't seen him in a long time, though.
So I don't know if he's still hanging around or what the deal is.
But if you I think it's still up on Mr. Nice.
And for the most part, I know it's been considered one of the more accurate histories on it.
But there was some stuff we dug up in the past few years.
I know Bodie found a book about Santa Cruz or written in Santa Cruz and Santa Cruz history.
And it actually mentions a few of them by name.
And it's one of the first things we found where there were other names in it.
You know, full names.
I mean, so there's an aspect where like, you know, Hayes has a history dating back to like
the late 60s, early 70s.
So it's hard enough to decipher stuff that happened 15 or 20 years ago, much less 40.
So there's a lot of, forgive me, hazy stuff around the origins of it.
And on those threads, there's tons of arguing that's gone on.
Yeah, there's tons of arguing.
And there's, you know, Sam Skunkman has his version.
You know, he's posted under different names about things he claims to have been a neighbor
to those guys.
But I think what's fairly well accepted is it started out as Columbian by Columbian.
I think we could start there.
It was Columbian by Columbian from import weed.
And they grew it in greenhouses in Santa Cruz and areas that were mild like that.
Because you needed those mild temperatures in order to take it till December or January
or whenever the hell it was that they pulled it down.
They hadn't figured out depths or anything like that yet.
And so it got pretty famous.
Matt has a poster somewhere of it.
It got early on, got named and got kind of legendary.
You know, it was sold high end in New York, I believe.
For you know, quite a bit at the time.
It was considered like the super connoisseur weed.
Right?
Yeah.
I would say all this is pretty like standard and not argued about that much.
Yeah, that much it's considered to be correct.
That much is considered.
Once you get into like, who's responsible for what and what happened when and how and
all that, that's where it gets kind of dicey.
But basically, what seems like and there's a lot of stuff where you read online where
it'll talk about like it's a Columbian by Indian by Thai by Mexican.
You know, Sam swears that it's colo by colo.
Yeah.
You know, and all that stuff was added way later and isn't really part of it.
I remember, yeah, he said the Indian was added way later, if at all.
I don't remember.
Was that his claim or not?
I think he said that the Indian was in there, but it was like it was added as a separate
hybrids he offered and never got mixed in with the, you know, with the core with the
core amount of hay.
So we always had separate hays.
Yeah.
You know, when it really boils down to it or whatever, it just seems like hays was,
you know, a mix of Columbians strains or whatever that they got out of seeds from import.
Yeah.
And they got lucky.
And admittedly, it doesn't seem like they knew what the hell they were doing.
Yeah.
You know, and it got pretty famous.
And so there's a lot of stories and a lot of mystery between late 60s and mid 80s.
There's stories out of Santa Cruz.
There's a series of brothers.
They wrote some stuff and high top like there's all these various things.
And you know, they've been debated ad nauseum other places.
So maybe we don't need to like delve into that part because you can find that everywhere.
But what is part of it is that what's indisputable is that in 84, 84ish or so, Sam's Guntman
brought it to Holland.
Yeah.
Right.
So these guys grew hays, it got famous.
They were growing it in Santa Cruz area.
It was a mix of sativas, mostly Colombian.
It was getting sold in New York.
And then at some point, Sam took a version of it to Holland.
Yes.
And as far as we can tell, he, you know, he gave it to three people.
Right?
Yeah, that's what it is.
Yeah.
He gave it to Positronics, who he actually worked with.
Yeah.
And he gave it to Carell from Super Sativa Seed Club.
Yep.
That Carell talked about when we interviewed him.
And he gave it to Neville.
Yep.
And all three of those guys made hybrids with it and sold seeds from that.
And pretty much all hays that we can really trace comes from either those three people
or stock that Sam made himself in Amsterdam later.
Yeah.
Off seeds he kept for himself.
And we really don't have any verified American hays, do we?
Yeah.
I mean, we have the originator that we all agree.
I think everybody agrees that Lund was a part of it.
Debatable on the lady, Kathy.
Yeah.
It's debatable.
We don't have, I'm just going to say first name since it doesn't really, neither here
nor there.
But there is one guy who keeps all the posters.
And as he explained it to me, was that the posters were hung up in the dealers' houses
that were verified legit hays dealers.
And that's kind of how they verified if they were getting real hays or not.
If that poster was in their room, then they knew that they were getting legit hays there.
So that's how he told it.
Now if it's true or not, I don't know.
But he seems to have the lion's share of the original posters.
And he got them somehow.
Yeah.
Somehow.
Yeah.
So, you know, and then like a lot of those things, like not everybody, not everybody
involved probably has told their story publicly.
Yeah.
By any means.
And, you know, there's a few people that are loud about it that insist they know what's
going on.
But what we know is it made it there.
Yeah.
It made it to Amsterdam and everybody's all the stuff that made hays famous sort of came
from Amsterdam back to America.
Yeah.
I would say.
Yeah.
Wouldn't you?
Yeah.
I think, yeah.
It wasn't like hays popped up here and kept rocking and everybody's rocking a cut from
here.
So what we don't know is, it seems like, you know, when we interviewed Carell from
Super Santiva Seed Club, he gave us a pretty interesting tidbit.
And that Sam only he didn't think Sam had that many seeds of it because he only gave
him like 10.
Yeah.
And he thought that he only gave Neville some.
Neville disputes that.
But be that as it may, you know, Neville ended up probably making the most famous hybrids
with it.
By far.
Yeah, by far.
You could say that, you know, but Positronics had it as well.
Original and so did Super Santiva Seed Club.
Yeah.
They all had originals.
And it seems like when you read the stories about what Neville and all the rest of them
did is that they were kind of like us growing, you know, it's kind of like the sour that,
you know, a lot of the starting stories, it was like a bunch of kids that were young,
that didn't know what the fuck they were doing at all.
And they made a bunch of rookie mistakes.
Yeah, because they weren't used to growing something that took 22 weeks or whatever.
It was a jungle plant.
And, you know, and it seems like a number of them got lost.
Yeah, by everybody.
Accidents didn't, you know, mom got killed.
They didn't think it was worth much.
It took, you know, 25 weeks and never finished.
You know, that kind of thing.
And so they didn't realize what kind of gold they had.
I don't know.
At the time, so much hindsight needed for that.
Yeah, they had they had no idea.
So Neville had, you know, a few males and a few females that he burned through and didn't
keep before he, you know, he ended up I mean, he ended up only by 1990.
He only had one plant that had lived.
Yeah.
You know, and so someone keeps asking, did Sam get invited?
Sam's never wanted to come on the show.
So no, I mean, to be honest, that's why I said it first.
Like if you want to hear Sam's opinion about it there, you can go hunt on Overgrow, you
know, archives or something or anything like that.
Like he's posted a ton on his opinion about it.
There's not a shortage of Sam's written history.
That's why we didn't focus on it for that long.
You know, he disagreed with me on the Kathy part.
So he said that the Granddaddy Mike was incorrect on that.
You know, that's what he said and it might be true, you know.
So yeah, that's what little I know from him after I told the story the last time based
on Granddaddy Mike.
That's the one thing that he said it was it was very good, but that's not correct.
So from Sam's point of view.
The reason why we kind of glossed over that part is that it's the hardest part to talk
about because it's the least documented.
Yeah.
You know, and it's a bunch of history from a bunch of people doing some black market
illegal shit in America.
All trying to stay under the radar.
And as far as the, you know, the haze goes, everybody knows haze.
What we just mentioned, Positronix, Neville's stuff and Super Sativa Seed Club and Sam are
the sources.
That all the haze that we talk about now descends from.
That's where it all comes from.
It's either hybrids they made or descendants of it or whatever.
And all the companies like the Flying Dutchman or any of these different groups, seeds men
that sold pure haze.
I believe they were all just buying kilos wholesale from Sam.
Yeah, I don't know.
I'd love to be able to ask him for sure, but it sounds like he was doing a lot of reselling
like that.
I mean, he basically what it sounds like is to not get in trouble.
He didn't sell directly to anyone outside of Holland because seed sales within Holland
were illegal.
So he was willing to wholesale, but he wasn't willing to retail.
So he ended up working through Positronix.
He ended up, I mean, that's how, I mean, you know, it's funny when people talk about all
this like rare skunk one that used to exist.
And we asked Karel about it.
He just laughed and he said, everyone gets skunk one from, you know, buying bags of seed
from Sam Skunkman.
That's where you got your skunk one.
Yeah.
Right.
Santa Cruz original hay.
So, but getting back to haze, it's someone asked about the AC Taze related to Santa Cruz
original haze.
I was just going to say that's, that's via Old Testament One who was British.
So I really highly doubt it was sourced via Santa Cruz.
It's just my theory on it.
Yeah.
I mean, I think, I think they sourced it through Posi maybe.
Yeah.
I don't know who.
I know, I know Tom Hill's haze line was Positronics.
Yeah, his was, and it was, his was very different from the old timer haze.
Yeah.
So, you know, all, yeah, all Tom Hill's work and stuff and the, and the deep chunk hybrids
and all that stuff about Positronics.
They that was all from, for a while there, Sam worked with on some fashion at Posi.
Yeah.
Helping them breed and do working with Werner and stuff like that and helping them breed
different stuff and, and working lines.
And Positronics was just one of those early seed companies.
You know, when Sam first moved to Amsterdam, he was looking for connections, people to
sell seeds to and people to work with.
Yeah.
And he kind of ended up dealing with everyone in town.
But that was only like a few dudes.
Yeah.
That was really like ongoing then or whatever.
Right.
And Positronics also, like a lot of people don't know this part, but the Positronics
Haze 19 Skunk 1 is what gave birth and is the same thing as the metal haze that I think
Bodie just released F3s of.
So if you do want like a worked version of that line, that's a very good way to get it.
So I don't know, I'd never heard numbers until the Correll interview, but Correll swore that
like Posi, him, Neville, they only got like a handful, like 10 seeds each.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And then Sam held the rest back that he had for himself to make his own open pollination
that he did later.
Yeah.
But I, you know, I'd never heard that before.
But then, you know, Correll was there and we weren't.
So exactly.
Yeah.
You know, Neville's dead now, but he claims he got big bags of old ass seed, but only
got, you know, eight or 10 of them to pop out of the entire thing.
Yeah.
You know.
You know, and so anyway, they, you know, he comes to mid 80s or whatever.
He comes here and he comes, he comes from California to Holland and he sells hay seeds
to multiple different people and then starts working himself.
And that was the start of Hayes becoming famous.
Yeah.
And it really didn't for at first, even like the very first thing that Neville offered
was actually a Northern Lights crossed to a female Hayes he had.
Yeah.
That was year one.
So there was like this Hayes B that was a girl and it was NL1 Hayes B. And then the
next year he came out with NL5 Hayes.
I didn't even know that.
I don't think I knew that part.
About the B girl?
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
If you go look in the 88 catalog, he has, I think it's actually an NL1 by Ruderalis.
And he crossed it to Hayes B. And he talks about it being female, because he was like
trying to like tame the crazy lead time to flower it.
Yeah.
Right.
Someone's calling you out.
Someone's saying you're incorrect.
How sure are you?
I don't know.
I don't know.
How sure?
Am I on it?
I don't know.
I think I got the catalogs around here.
But the first two hybrids he really tried to make was he crossed it to Maple Leaf, Afghan
Tee.
And he crossed it to NL5 Hayes.
And NL5 Hayes he released.
The other one I don't think he released to the public, but he gave to friends or whatnot.
Is this the Big Herb from Mr. Nice forums?
Oh, okay.
There you go.
What's up Herb?
Long time no see, dude.
Oh, man, that's so cool.
I've read so many of your threads on Mr. Nice.
I've been looking for Big Herb for quite a while.
That's cool to see you, dude.
I'm glad you showed up.
Yeah.
One of the cool things about Mr. Nice is that there was a time in 2009, 2010 or something
where Neville was very active on there.
And a ton of knowledge about what happened, dropped both publicly in posts that he made,
and via DM and communications with various people that were active at the time on Mr.
Nice.
And Big Herb was definitely one of those guys that was active in communication.
And like Matt said, he had a great write up on the history of it.
You can probably still go read.
Yeah, Herb was around when Neville came back and I started getting fucking around with
him and trying to work the Bubba's and all that shit.
And it kind of petered off on the Mr. Nice forums after that.
It really, really took a dive after all that shit.
So somebody has asked a question, which I'll answer just because it ties in.
They were asking, did Neville have both an A and a C male and did he use them to breed
in various things?
So what it sounds like is that Neville ended up with two guys, right?
And the A and the C, right?
And it was easier to use the males because it was easier to collect pollen and then dust
a bunch of Indica females at the appropriate time than it was to try to deal with the females,
I guess.
So for lack of a better way, he ended up with a couple of boys and the A, he lost in
1989.
He did a huge seed increase and put all of his best Indica's in there, like the G13
and the NL5 and a bunch of different stuff.
And then him and his workers forgot to keep a backup in the bedroom.
So he bloomed every A male and they all died and he lost it.
So after that...
Happens so often, keeping big libraries too.
So he never sold any commercial amounts of Haze A. He popped them himself and gave out
various phenos of it, which we'll get to in a little bit.
And he gave some private amounts of seed to friends, other breeders, people early on,
you know, whatnot, but it was never sold commercially.
So everything you ever could buy commercially was the C dad.
So all NL5 Haze that you could buy from the seed bank or from SensiSeeds was the C dad.
Right.
And that's so that's kind of like what everybody's got.
Yeah, I'd bring Big Herb on the live.
I don't know if he's ready to just be pop on on camera all of a sudden, but he's more
than welcome to come on.
No, but we'll definitely reach out to you after the show.
He's a wealth of knowledge.
And would be cool to add to things.
But, you know, so Neville had and NL5 Haze was probably the most famous.
It's probably what put Haze on the map, to be perfectly honest.
Yeah.
And what I mean by that is that it just made it a permanent part of cannabis lore.
Yeah, it inundated the United States.
It did.
And he, you know, in 89 and 90, the pictures on the front of his catalog were an NL5 Haze
A. Yeah, huge running colas, big bud, you know, all that.
And it was that and Super Skunk ended up being him and Sensei's best selling seed lines.
So NL5 Haze kind of changed the game.
And it was super potent.
And it's probably I've said it on shows with Matt before, in my opinion, it's probably
the most successful hybrid ever made.
I wonder if it's because like the line was kicking out more keepers, you know, things
that people wanted or just because so many were sold, you were eventually going to find
a keeper because it wasn't super easy to find keepers in all those packs, was it?
I never found a fucking keeper.
Yeah.
And I bought I definitely I bought plenty of packs.
Yeah, not plenty.
But I mean, I probably bought seven or eight packs in the in the in the mid 90s.
But then other people from that same year and same era as me, there's things that are
still traded today that were found right around that.
Yeah.
So it's just the mystery.
It's just the mystery of seeds.
You can find it in one and you might not find it in 200.
Yeah, in a way, you know, but it seems like that that strain was consistent from somewhere
to 89 to the mid 90s.
Yeah.
Neville says they lost the NL5 mom before he left Sensei, which was in 95 96.
But and basically like all the all the Hayes that we know of all the Finos that have been
kept all seem to trace back to that late 80s through mid 90s era.
Yeah.
And there's a bunch like yeah, and there's a fucking bunch of them.
Mm hmm.
Right.
There's a shitload.
I mean, some may not even be identified as NL5 Hayes like Bull Rider might be NL5 Hayes
based you know, old Betsy.
Yeah, exactly.
The sister of Bull Rider or whatever.
So what ends up happening is that maybe we can like, you know, that's interesting, Big
Herb, because we've always wondered there's been a rumor that the Cuban black could have
been from gifted seeds to someone that Neville knew.
You know, and it could be it could have been A in that case.
But I've heard that rumor too.
I don't know if it's true.
I poo poo the Cuban black.
I don't give a fuck what anyone says like the at least the clone circulating right now
in the community because I know exactly who brought it in and that dude kept fucking lying
about everything he had.
So I think it's very, I'm very skeptical, skeptical with what goes around today as a
Cuban black Hayes.
It might be some kind of NL5 Hayes, but it is not the original.
I know where I came from.
You know, I mean, we can, you know, we're bouncing around and I apologize because it's
like a multi decade story or whatever.
But yeah, basically, and we can dive into different parts at different times.
But basically, between, you know, 89 and 95 or so, there's probably like 10 or 15 elites,
maybe a few more that have survived from that era that are all named cuts and still held
on to.
Yeah.
Of mostly NL5 Hayes, whether it uses the ADAD or the CDAD, but some G13 Hayes, some
hash plant Hayes, various different things.
Yeah, you know, I've only ever had the hash plant Hayes and hybrids.
It is pretty good.
They so basically, yeah, Neville basically crossed it to like all his best indica.
Yeah, so it got crossed the hash plant, it got crossed the G13, it got crossed the NL5,
it got crossed the NL1.
Anything that he had that was an indica that he thought was a bomb clone.
Yeah.
Got, you know, so that's kind of where like people are talking PIF isn't one thing all
this, we'll get to that in a second.
But basically, what happened is, is that there's a whole series we can talk about of famous
clones in Europe, that Neville hunted and found and then passed out to friends.
Yeah.
And those got those got held in like some people call them the southern, the, I almost
said southern humble, the southern Holland, South Holland crew.
Yeah, yeah, South Holland crew.
And they've been sold in coffee shops for decades.
Yeah, when I when I first went, you know, to coffee shops in in Amsterdam, you could
get NL5, you could get A5, you could get C5, you could get G13, you could get hash plant
Hayes.
Basically, every every trip I went somewhere had, you know, various versions of it.
Yeah.
And they were sold and a lot of people came to Holland to smoke those hazes.
So there was these famous cuts.
And there's a lot of them that are 30 years old now or whatever that got that got saved
in Europe.
And there's like a whole map to that.
And then at the same time, there was a bunch of people that were trading seeds with Neville
and buying a bunch of Neville seeds.
And it seems like a combination of New York and Florida.
Right.
It blew up and got super popular.
And there was markets for it.
A lot of the people in Florida were actually sending it to New York, because it blew up
in New York and got a top dollar.
And there's rumors that it's been kind of a thing in New York since the 70s.
Like, there's always been a high end clientele of like Wall Street brokers, musicians, artists,
connected people that were willing to drop big money for Hayes.
As long as I've been a smoker, you could go to New York and find Hayes.
Yeah, I wonder why that is.
It just caught on and never, I don't know.
But like, I wonder why Dominican crews picked up on it in New York.
I wonder why certain ethnic, you know, groups just navigated to that specific type.
Is it that New Yorkers just tend to like more speedy weed?
You know, I mean, in this case, the best Hayes in the world, in my opinion, is in Amsterdam.
You know, New York and Florida.
The West Coast gets jacked.
Like literally, we get jack and super silver Hayes.
And, you know, like we get a lot of hybrids of that kind of thing.
And those are more like the poly hybrids that came later.
Yeah, right.
Like, you know, they on the East Coast, they have a bunch of F1s and S1s of F1s.
And, you know, and there's a people are going to talk about it.
You know, there's people talk about names like Heights Hayes, Downtown Brown, Pith,
Church, Cuban Black.
You know, it seems like there was groups of Dominicans and groups of Cubans that had it
on lockdown.
Yeah, you know, people call it block work, because they could get it on the block.
There was Green Hayes, there was Brown Hayes.
Right?
Yeah.
And it's really hard if you're not from there, to know all the different, you know, are they
like Finos?
Are they the same thing grown different ways?
Are they called different hybrid names?
I mean, I talked to some people that were in the know.
And I used to think that it was like, you know, half a dozen names from the same couple
cuts.
Yeah.
But it turns out that in the 30 years that Hayes has been popular in New York and Florida,
there's a fucking plethora.
Yeah.
There's even there's like Poudre.
That's another one.
I always wondered what that stood for.
It's a weird word.
Yeah, I mean, there's all kinds of nicknames and stuff.
And so yeah, what's crazy about the Hayes is that the and don't take any offense to
this anyone but like the Cubans and the Dominicans and whoever that were running it.
They viewed it very much so as a business.
Yeah.
And they held that shit fucking tight.
They weren't into into sharing it with trading.
They had like a market and their market was good and they were into it.
And there's dudes that I've talked to that like their entire career basically just grown
Hayes.
Yeah.
You know, that's all they needed to do was grow Hayes, get it to New York.
Boom, they're good.
Right.
So they don't share that shit.
So but what's interesting about that is like, unlike a lot of like random cuts you get like,
where you kind of have to get the cut.
A lot of those dudes once they realized they couldn't get the real cut.
They just went and bought beans because you can still buy the line.
And it's like, imagine if your buddies are selling it for a ton of money.
You might go to Amsterdam and buy 100 seeds.
Yeah.
And come back and pop a bunch and then all of a sudden you've got the, you know, I've
got I've got the piff.
Yeah, I've got the Cuban black.
You know, they called it.
My experience and this is this is I remember bigger, but I was trying to push a bunch of
these off on him because I knew like no one wanted him.
But when I got the piff, the Dominicans asked me not to release it pure.
That was the only request they had don't release it pure.
And I wasn't gonna fucking snub that, you know, like you don't want to piss anyone off.
So I never did.
But I really regret it.
Yeah, I mean, they have there's a market.
So I don't claim to be an expert.
I mean, there's there's different people we could probably bring on maybe in the future
that know a lot more about the various names and origins of the various different Hayes
things from New York.
I just wanted to bring it up in general, that there's a bunch of cuts that get passed around
in Florida and New York more but but Florida too, and a bunch in Holland.
And between those two areas, that's like 15 different cuts.
Yeah, at least a bunch.
So it's probably the line that has the most we're lucky if one or two Finos of any famous
thing survives from the 90s to today.
Yeah.
Right.
Can you think of any other line from that era that has as many cuts as NL five Hayes
does that still float around?
Not even close, man.
We're still trying to find a single line of these lines, you know?
Yeah.
So, you know, and so you know, some of this stuff, people are talking about gold or brown
Hayes or whatever.
In my opinion, and I've seen it in like chem four, and I've seen it in various strains,
you know, certain strains just when it when they're when they're around oxygen, they sort
of cure a little bit brown.
Yeah.
I used to get remember like the the real cherry pie when it was growing would be like deep
purple and look all crazy.
When I did it depths and then I dry it and three weeks later it would the the purple
would turn a little light brown.
Oh, man, I hated that about like blackberries to like that beautiful magenta red as it dries,
it turns just as nasty, but it turned brown and some of those some of those Hayes crosses
turn brown as they dry.
It's the Colombian influence, I believe.
And so it might be terpias all get out and fresh and smell delicious.
And someone looks at it and they're like this shit's old.
Yeah, old weed, you know?
So it's just like it's a it's a you know, I mean, even like we I was we were talking
about it.
I was talking about it earlier today, but I have a buddy who made the chocolate top
the chocolate diesel.
Yeah, right.
And it's and that stuff.
It's basically chocolate tie by dog by sour diesel.
Yeah, and it was phenomenal.
And we had it for a long time.
And no one wanted to ever buy it because it cured a light brown.
Yeah, because the chocolate part wasn't so much it smelled like chocolate.
It was that the tie was brown.
Yeah.
And and like for else said back in the day, they wanted that brown.
Yeah, but that brown was it was good brown.
It was fresh.
Yeah, like it was fucked up, but it just a little yellow, little brown little off colors.
Yeah.
And what's crazy about Hayes is that that is like death on the West Coast.
Right?
Brown, any kind of brown color at all.
And it's like doom.
And I can see people in the comments or whatever talking about all the uptown Browns my favorite.
Yeah, that's the one I give me that brown.
Yeah.
You know, so there's a bunch of stuff like that where I can name them real quick.
When we talk about A or C, it's just basically like Holland shorthand for which Hayes male
of Neville's was used.
Yeah.
Right.
So there's at least three C5s that float around Holland that are still alive for sure.
One of them is called the one and that's the mom of Super Silver Hayes.
And it's floats around.
It's actually in America right now.
And it's what people some people if you see people posting in America of C5, it's that
kind.
Okay, so the C5 cut in America is the one.
The C5 cut in America is it's like the terpeneline bomb.
Yes, it's what made Super Silver Hayes so terpeneline dominant.
You know, and, you know, and so it's, it's being passed around it made it over the and
it's really amazing, uplifting, super potent weed.
It just you have to be able to handle terpeneline.
Yeah, if you don't like terpeneline, it's gonna be a real problem.
I smoke terpeneline all day.
And so there's like three C5s.
The final C5 was my favorite.
I used to smoke it over there in Amsterdam.
It's the they call it the 122 or the mango.
And it's the mom of mango Hayes.
And it just has more of that mercy.
I don't forget I forget what the terp is that leads to mangoes.
But it smells like ripe mangoes.
And it's got a great high.
Yeah, C5 isn't SSH.
C5 is the mom of SSH.
Someone just said so.
So then there's a there's three cuts of C5 at least over there.
There's two cuts of A5 they say there's a G13A there's a G13C there's a hash plant by
C. I might be missing a couple I don't know.
But but there's a bunch of them over there.
And then most of the ones in America are, you know, NL5 cross the sea.
Even I should mention too that Neville gave Soma of Soma seeds some G13A.
And he took a male of that and all of Soma's sativa and hazy lines are based off that that
male that he kept from some G13A seeds that he got.
And so what it seems like Neville was pretty open about this on the on the forums over
there was haze does not like being crossed to itself.
No, yeah, at all.
And what becomes hard is, especially with the sea.
The more you cross haze to itself.
Neville called it cat piss.
We would probably we would probably call it terpenelein.
But the more you cross it, you get terpenelein dominant and then only rarely do others any
kind of and that's what everybody thinks of as jack.
Jack terps, train wreck terps.
Yep.
Super silver haze terps.
That kind of stuff tends to dominate.
So yeah, what it seems like is the best ones, the ones that everybody keeps are the F1s.
Of haze to some indica and the polyhybrids like super silver haze, mango haze, jack ray
or that kind of thing.
They don't seem to be as people don't seem to have keepers of those the same way.
Now that there's not cuts of them that don't float around and might be nice.
Yeah.
But we should mention too, because it's fucking it's kind of like a ramble or whatever.
Most of these things are they're one of the most unique things about haze is that most
of the good ones take between 12 and 16 weeks.
Yeah.
Long time.
Long time.
A long time.
Like I think the Cuban blacks and a lot of the ones in New York, 90 to 100 days is a
pretty common rate to take those ones.
The dog shit, which is about the only West Coast one that's any good.
That one's 12, 13 weeks.
Easy.
You know, all the stuff from Europe, you know, was is all 15, 16 weeks.
Yeah.
You know, and so that was one of the things that Neville and Shanti and all those guys
that were fucking around with it.
One of their criteria was they didn't want anything longer than 16 weeks.
Yeah.
Because it was impractical because asking someone to flower something for four months
is already impractical.
Yeah.
Especially if it's a money making thing.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You know, so there's an aspect where it's like, you know, they cut it off.
They wanted 14 to 16 weeks, you know, and it seems like the earliest good ones are more
like 12 and 13.
Yeah.
You know, but 14 to 16 seems to be the most common range that a lot of them fall into.
I was a big fan of the old SOG super silver haze.
That was one of my favorites that ran pretty quick and was mostly skunk one dominant.
It's pretty cool.
Sure.
Yeah.
I mean, those, you know, the super silver haze and the mango haze were both two different
NL5 haze moms crossed to the same skunk haze dad.
Yeah.
Right.
So the skunk helps like throw, especially in the super silver, it helped it throw bigger,
longer, thicker colas.
Yeah.
And it could shorten up the time a whole bunch.
In my opinion.
Yeah.
You know, and so, you know, they so then it just became going back.
It just became fucking famous.
Yeah.
Everybody had haze and all these seed companies wanted to obscure exactly how they got haze.
But haze just became haze for a while was sort of shorthand for sativa.
Yeah.
It was the sativa.
Right.
Yeah.
And, you know, and it got famous in America.
It got famous over there.
It was all these various different things.
And it seems like, you know, like I said, the F1s seem to be a lot better than the poly
hybrids.
Yeah.
None of the poly hybrids weren't nice.
I've grown nice super silver haze.
I've had keepers of mango haze I loved.
But it seems like all the most favorite ones are F1.
Yeah.
So some type of Afghani or Paki crossed the haze.
Crossed the haze.
Very different things slapped together.
And then you see what they get.
And even with those things crossed to it, still the keepers were 14, 16 weeks.
Yeah.
So essentially, like you're taking some Colombian and like shortening it from 20 to 24 to 14
to 16.
I've seen Colombian black go up to 26.
That's fucking insane.
Yeah.
You know, and so people are talking about PIF.
PIF is just, you know, PIF is a catch all term.
Yeah.
It's one of the nicknames to haze.
You know, people can argue, I'm not going to sit there and say that I have some encyclopedic
knowledge of how all the New York haze terms came about.
But it got a bunch of names.
It was popular enough for long enough that it has a bunch of nicknames.
Right?
Yeah.
I said it before.
Heights haze, Uptown Brown, Cuban Black, Black Work, huh?
PIF, Church.
Frankie.
I'm short for frankincense.
You know, all that all that different types of stuff.
Oh boy, and there said PUDE stands for pure.
I didn't know that's what it meant.
I don't know if that's Colombian for pure, Dominican for pure.
It had a lot of nicknames.
Yeah.
You know, and probably just like Kush and just like cookie, just like everything else
that got popular.
People got bag seeds.
People got lines from Amsterdam still and pop their own thing and added their own name
to it because they're trying to cash in on the thing.
So it's really hard to say, but rarely, you know, that line was available for seven or
eight years in seed form.
Okay.
I got it.
I have an idea.
I have an idea for a little game we can play.
I'm going to name a few different haze cuts and you're going to say pass or smoke.
Oh, pass.
And you're going to be passing it to an idiot or you're going to smoke it yourself.
Okay.
Indeed.
Okay.
A5.
Smoke.
Smoke.
Okay.
C5.
Smoke.
Smoke.
I knew you'd go for both of them.
Dog shit.
Definitely smoke.
Have you smoked Old Betsy?
No.
No, I haven't tried it.
Nope.
Or Bull Rider, to be honest.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's the most, I haven't smoked a Bull Rider that I know of, you know, like it just wasn't,
it had already died out by the time I got San Diego.
Let's see here.
Let's see here.
Here's some good hazy cuts that you've tried.
Cali Mist.
Smoke.
There's nothing you're not going to smoke that has haze in it now that I think about
it.
I don't think I could name one.
Could you?
I could.
Yeah.
I would, there's, there's not really a Jack I've seen that I wished I had a jar on my,
on my, on my, on my, on my shelf there.
Wow.
So Jack, you're going to pass on a Jack.
Jack, I would pass.
Pass on the Jack.
Pass on Jack.
Jack to me is like huge yielding skunk one on a haze frame, you know?
And it's like, just, I, I don't know.
Like the type of terpeneline that Jack is, is not my favorite.
It's more like it doesn't taste good to me, you know?
And people love it, you know, and people loved it cause they got two, three pounds of light
with it and they crushed it in depths and greenhouses and they basically grew the shit
out of it until the buyers were like, uh, you know?
Yeah.
How about amnesia?
Have you tried amnesia yet?
Amnesia is some watered down shit.
I thought it was, it's one of my favorites.
Really?
It is one of my favorites by far.
Cause it's so like perfumey, fruity, like it's just nice, man.
Yeah.
I don't know.
I mean, I like, I like the, I like the church, the frankincense, the mercine.
Yeah.
I mean, I can't, I'm not a terpeneline hater by any means.
Like I said, I mean, like I said, C5 is a terpeneline bomb.
But there's a difference to me between terpeneline that has a little bit of sweetness or creaminess
behind it.
And like, I just sprayed my mouth with like floor cleaner.
Yeah, that's true.
And that terpeneline, you know, it's like, and I think for Jack and stuff like that,
there was just a bunch of badly grown Jack.
It over, just like train wreck, you know, it overwhelms people.
Yeah.
You know, like that Durban, that Durban from Colorado or whatever, that one's a terpeneline
bomb too.
Sure is.
You know, and super terpeneline.
And you know, it's like, I like, there's all kinds of weed I smoke.
I'm not a hater on it.
But when I, the interesting part to me is it's not so much, the only thing I can think
of that's like really strong terpeneline that I love the high is the C5.
Interesting.
I don't know what about that does it for you.
You know, I don't know why that is.
But yeah, you know, but they, you know, what's cool about it is that because it made money
in coffee shops for so long and still does, it's still hoarded over there.
Yeah.
And people accuse us of hoarding.
That shit is legit hoarded.
Dude, people are like, so many people put stipulations on those fucking cuts.
I mean, like, there are certain seed lines like me and Caleb can never release.
No, because they'll be super pissed off and people will be angry.
And it's like, and you know, it's been monetized over there for so long and been sold in coffee
shops.
And if you got the cuts, you had to give kickbacks to the dudes that I was like, very.
So those things it's like, and they don't give a fuck.
They don't want to trade you for shit.
They have what they have.
And they don't, so that's like the ultimate hoarding because honestly, they didn't slip
out until Neville died.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The entire time that he was alive, that shit was on lockdown with those guys.
Yep.
Right.
Yep.
And then two, only two of those cuts, maybe more, but only, you know, but yeah.
I love that one of the sources for those cuts, I was sent a list with those on me.
I was like, I want those two.
And the dude didn't even know what the fuck they were till I told him what they were.
And that was the biggest mistake I ever made.
I don't like to dick people and be like, you know, I'd like to trade equal value.
So even if they find out later, it's rare, they at least got the worth.
But yeah.
The hard part is that, you know, these things would never be popular.
Okay.
No, you really have to like the high.
You should know what you're growing too.
Because I see a lot of people asking about the A5 S1s and stuff like that.
That's not going to be a super like, marketable commercial crop nowadays that would sell really
well.
I think people have this like fantasized idea because you're saying it's dank and they respect
your word.
They don't understand what it would with what this definition of dank would look like.
Dank and ugly.
It is fugly.
Like I mentioned before, like people were talking on the thing about how much they love
the uptown brown.
Yeah, you couldn't sell uptown brown in California.
No fucking way.
No way.
Don't get me wrong.
Even if I agree with you, and I say that weeds amazing.
It still wouldn't sell here.
Yeah, it just couldn't.
And like, if you see the pictures of A5, there's no resin production anywhere on any leaf for
miles and you just look at it be like, fuck that dude sucks at growing, but really it's
the plant.
It's ugly.
Yeah.
But it works, you know, and so you really have to be into the high.
So it's like all these Dutch are like trying to hoard it.
Like Americans are going to like fuck with their money.
Yeah.
When you really have to be a consumer, like a lover of cannabis because it takes four
months.
So you have to plan that it's going to take twice as long as the rest of your shit.
And you got to keep it happy and healthy and bug free and all the various issues free that
long.
And it don't wash.
And then you get some great weed.
And so it's not, you know, but in Holland, it's like all my first experiences with smoking
all those ones were all Holland grown.
And maybe I could tell a story that people might like.
So I went and saw this room in Holland that was growing Neville's Hayes and C5 and the
122.
Right.
And so I go into this room, and it was one of, I only met Neville a couple of times,
but it was one of his partners.
Okay.
And so I go into this room and it's like, there's like one gallon pots on the ground.
Okay.
And with those Grodan, like Rockwell croutons.
You know, like the little croutons, little squares, right?
One gallon pots with these stems coming out of them that were like that big.
And those stems went six, seven feet up in the air.
Yeah.
Okay.
Bare.
Right.
And so imagine this little one gallon pot with this stem that's like half as wide as
the pot.
Yeah.
And then it's like straight up and then branches everywhere.
And like two or three layers of netting.
Yeah.
And then they just had a bunch of 600s on the ceiling.
I forgot to tell you, I had a conversation with Seattle Greg the other day, and he said,
when he went into Neville's grow room, he said, when he first got there, Neville was
growing Rockwell slabs on the ground.
On the ground.
Yeah.
And they had, they had drains in there or whatever else.
And they would be on this, like the slowest constant drip ever.
But it was like, you're looking at literally these, they were probably 10, 12, 10, 12 foot
Paul plants.
That was like where the weed was.
And it started at above I'm six, three.
It started above my head.
That's like I walked in and all the netting was above my head.
And there's these tiny ass little pots on slow drip and just like a sea of spears above
your head.
How big was the ceiling?
How tall were the ceilings?
They were pretty tall.
They were like 14 feet or something like that.
Yeah.
And then the canopy starts at the top of your head.
The canopy started, the canopy started about seven feet.
It was about half a foot above my head.
And from seven to 10 feet was where most of the weed was.
And then the lights were hanging off the ceiling and it was like six feet.
Like you looked and there was like a sea of stock coming out of the thing and going up
above your head and then branching out into huge branches all over.
That's wild.
It was pretty wild.
I'd never seen, at the time I'd never seen anything like that before in my life.
People are confusing.
They're saying they thought you were five foot 10.
No, that's me.
I'm five foot 10.
Yeah, I'm six three.
So it was above my head.
And you know, what's crazy about that is that their drip system fails, for instance.
That shit's dead in like two hours.
Yeah, that's what's always scared me about like drip systems, feeds, hydroponic systems.
I mean, it was literally on like the slowest drip you could imagine.
It was basically constant.
Yeah.
It was constant feed during the light cycle.
So yeah, it was pretty.
But that's how they grew and that was Neville's Hayes and the Mango Hayes and the C5.
And those were all grown for coffee shops at the time.
And they were dank.
I mean, the Neville's Hayes is A5 by Hayes C. And the cut that I love still exists.
I hope that it gets sent over to America sometime.
I would go what the fuck are you laughing at?
Everybody's down my height.
No, he's short as fuck.
He's not 5'10".
Huh?
Liars.
He's short.
I don't know how short.
He's short, you know.
5'10 is a little short.
You're right.
He might.
I don't know.
Girl Pinocchio knows.
All my dick.
So we don't know if Neville's Hayes is the same or not.
Yeah.
You know.
We don't.
Someone asked if we could break down Karma's A5, S1.
Yeah, you should.
So I'm going to break down Karma's A5.
A5.
Karma's A5.
Karma's A5.
Karma's A5.
Karma's A5.
Karma's A5.
Karma's A5.
Karma's A5.
Karma's A5.
Karma's A5.
Karma's A5.
Karma's A5.
Karma's A5.
Karma's A5.
Yeah, I'm a chase s1. Yeah. Yeah, I mean, you know he he reversed the I don't think the I don't think the
um, I don't think the Hayes is like being bred even to even to
Outcrosses of themselves. Yeah, they certainly don't want that doesn't seem like they like to be s1 very much
No, there's a lot of ugly in them motherfuckers. I mean, yeah, there's a lot of ugly
You might get and that's part of the problem too is like when it comes to Hayes
You know
The best stuff is gonna be three to four months a
Bunch of it's gonna be junk a bunch of it's gonna be jungle weed. Yeah, you're not gonna know for forever
It takes a long time to frickin
You know to get it going so it's like I mean I can tell a story that I I've told privately
Or whatever, but I went out I went out to the Cannabis Cup and I think it was 98 or something like that
And it was the first year that they released
Neville's Hayes seeds. Yeah. Okay and Neville's Hayes was so everybody knows it was supposed to be a private breeding
of
Neville's and he was trying to make what he called the Holy Grail. Yeah a Hayes line. So he took
He took his favorite a5
Which which was on the cover of the 89 and 90 catalog that female and he threw that on the Hayes email
Yeah, and it was the first time he tried to breed both Hayes dads into a single thing and they found this cut over there
That was the strongest sativa I've ever smoked in my life
I've talked about it before it's
That Neville's Hayes Oh
Yeah, yeah it it make I mean it it is unbelievably potent in a way that weed is not normally potent
Yeah, and so I smoked it over there and it blew my head off like it it made it hard for me to walk downstairs
Yeah, I like held on to the railing and I felt disassociated and I felt like it hit me in a weird
It made me feel like I was smoking kind bud with no tolerance
Yeah, like I got it was intense and I got high for hours
And so I just brought some of these seeds home and I'd never grown an extreme sativa before so I
Was gonna breed with this fucker and I grew it for a few months I took some cuttings and
Then once they rooted and I knew I had backup copies. I flipped it to see what was up
Yeah, well, I flipped it at 1212, you know, this is like 1999 or something
Yeah, I made that mistake before too. Yeah, and it it vegged for months with no pistols
Yeah, just you wait and you're like week seven. You're like
Yeah, and I was like what the fun like all my shits finishing up and it's barely starting and I was like, yeah
so I like I tossed them and then I took clones and I flowered those and
Then I put more shit in there because I was trying to breed with it and then the same fucking thing happened
Right, and I didn't know at the time that a lot of those guys over there
Will tell you that if you really want to get your sativas to do well
Yeah clone them a few times and let the plant itself get to be six or seven months old
Yeah, because that's its natural veg cycle before it would even start to bloom in the tropics
Yeah, you got to realize it's gonna veg for a long-ass time
And he's like no if you're getting an a5 cut that was popped in 89. You can just flip it. Yeah, it's obviously
Yeah, and then I didn't know anything about 1114 or 10
1113 or 1014 or anything like that, which is basically just like for people that don't grow
It's how much hours of light and how much hours of darkness? Yeah, so 1212 for
You know 22 years ago or whatever that was fine for all my Indica's for Neville's that was like veg
Yeah in order to get it to start I had to give it 11 hours of light and 13 hours of darkness
It had to be over six months old and then I had to finish it at 1014 for like the final six weeks
Yeah, yeah, and so I fucked up a bunch
Yeah, I did that with the Malawi to Bodhi the bodies that when he taught me that trick
So I would have never I would even made
Sense of it back then no I had no idea
I didn't I didn't even make sense of it until I had a buddy in Amsterdam who?
grew for Neville and I went back to Europe and
Saw him the next year and told him like basically my follies
Yeah, and he just laughed at me, and he laid all that shit out
Yeah, and I had no idea dude, I mean it makes sense when someone says it like you know like oh
God that makes sense and how easy yeah every other strain
I'd ever grown of cannabis at that point in time when I turn the lights back to 1212 everything I needed to happen happened
Yeah, that was my first experience with like weed that didn't do that
You know and and so that's only with extreme sativas if it's got enough Indica, and it should trigger
It's only if and it's only if it's from seed
Because seeds know they're young
Someone was asking if any of us had grown Kelly miss here's an old
Original pack low numbered pack early on of Cali mist that we haven't popped yet
One day I'm not so yeah one day
You know so I mean it should be said about the Cali mist Simon worked for Neville
Its origins are unknown
Neville thinks that it's an nl5 Hayes a pheno
It
But he think he you know he thought that everything in Europe was based off his work, so that's not surprised
He thought everything in America was based off his work, but what is interesting is that having talked to some Dutch people?
They say that that the
The the Cali mist was based off a mother plant called the mango
Yeah
Now whether it's the same whether it's the same mango that that founded the mango Hayes and the 122 or whether it's a different thing
I can't say, but they said for a long time. It was alive in Europe, and then it got and then it got lost yeah
so
People talk about the Cali mist
Western winds I remember Western winds has in Cambo in it or suppose the same fucking thing yeah
It has no camera in it so people that so people that people that
That don't know
Tony from Sag Martha and Simon from serious had a company that we talked about before cerebral seeds for one year
Right and they split up Tony made Sag Martha seeds Simon made serious seeds
and
Simon's version of the Cali mist was called Cali mist
Tony's version of the same line was called Western winds
Which is I think one of the cooler names in cannabis? I always liked the name Western winds
I thought that was a super neat name. Just makes me think of gas
You know so so yeah, so I've heard people in Europe. Tell me that they preferred Tony's version to Simon's
that the Western winds
But you know then it's hard to say those guys don't really reveal parentage no
We don't know what's in the Cali mist. We don't know what's in the bubble gum. We don't know what's in the
ak-47
It's it's hard to say
but but the 90s Cali mist Simon got busted in 99 or 2000 when they changed the laws and
It seems like several of his lines changed after that yeah, and the Cali mist was one of them
But in the 90s there was some really amazing Cali mist cuts
Yeah, it was it was a nice line
You know so
You know yeah, it's that's kind of what happened. It's like people. You know people were getting you could buy
They called it pure haze f10
Remember from from Flying Dutchman. Yep, and they'd straight-up. Tell you 80% of it is junk
10% of it is is is pretty good and
10% of it is is special. I don't know if Flying Dutchman said that I know Tom Hill said that
I'm pretty sure that in the description
They talked about they talked about how inbred it was already
Okay, and that its best use was for hybrids and outcrossing
But if you were trying to find a winner be prepared that only less than 10%
Yeah, so you'd have to do like at least a hundred one hunt
Yep, and so doing a hundred hundred plant haze hunt is a fucking nightmare
That's expensive
Yes expensive and nightmarish because it's gonna be a bunch of jungle weed and the shittiest looking weed
Could end up being fire. Yeah, you're not gonna know until you dry it and smoke it
You're not gonna know how potent it is it can be like look resinless
Yeah, and still take your head off
Right yep, I mean so
But what's cool about it is that it was so fire
That it's become one of the most common names in cannabis, and it's been blended into all kinds of shit for forever
Yep
You know blue dream has haze in it
You know lots of lots of huge yielding plants have haze in their background because of that stretch
Yeah, just stretch the yield
If you could throw if you could like Jack Herrera was basically figuring out a way to get skunk buds on a haze frame
Yeah, and if you could get a ginormous haze plant with huge skunk running colas and a little NL density
Then you're three pounds of light, bro. Yeah
Three pounds of light three pounds of light, bro. I know the days you're supposed to fucking
Lollipop on for three pounds of light, but I don't remember it anymore
So maybe I don't know maybe we should we've been we've been
Rambling about haze for a minute. Maybe we should talk a little about so neville made neville made all these
All these hybrids only a few of which he ended up selling to the public
Yeah, but there was a bunch
like the g13 haze crosses and
The the silver haze which was Afghan a maple leaf Afghan tea by haze and different things
he passed out to friends and
Keep other people in Amsterdam and even some people that bought seeds off him early on
Yeah, so those things got spread out a little bit and there was keepers that were found even though you could never buy
g13 by haze a
Yeah, you know they had it and
Then you know
after that
He started trying to make polyhybrids and blend them all together and cross various select cuts
He'd found he tried to cross he was trying to do
Skunk a skunk NL and haze mixed together
Yeah, because he considered those to be like the three most famous lines in in Holland
Yeah, so can I get a plant that contains all three and what it sounds like is it was just a terpene lean nightmare
G13 haze all the polyhybrids he was oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, you know
And you know he so there I went to the the first cup I went to was the Jack there was a cup in 1995
Cannabis cup in Amsterdam, which is the only place that they were and in 95
Ben and Alan drunkers. This was actually I guess yeah, it was 95 so Ben and Alan drunkers
wanted to
Have a commemorative release because the whole theme for that
That cup was Jack Herrera and the Emperor wears no clothes. Yeah, and the impact that Jack Herrera had on the cannabis movement
Right so there was all you going keep going one second
So there was all there was all this there was all this theme or whatever right and so Neville had been working on this
this nl5 haze by skunk haze
But he hadn't really found what he wanted yet, so
Ben and Alan drunkers because they were at Sensi and sent and Neville was at Sensi at the time
They convinced him to release this sort of like not ready for primetime thing
And call it Jack Herrera
Okay, so that's how the Jack Herrera came about was they had they already had a pheno of it
That they had at the cup that they had flower at the cup
And then they they released Jack Herrera as a seed line at Sensi seeds that
At the cup that was like a big debut was you could buy Jack Herrera at the cup damn it
I thought I had my Jack Herrera 95 poster here, but I don't fight real quick anyway
So so Jack got Jack got Jack got released
Jack supposedly is the genesis of fucking Brothers Grimm c99 is
Bag seed from a coffee shop in Amsterdam of Jack Herrera
Yeah, is the supposed is the supposed origins or whatever so yeah, it's a bag seed
So it could be half Jack or full Jack as you know suppose
Supposedly if you believe him it was found in a bud of Jack Herrera bought at a coffee shop
Yeah, and he brought it home and did shit with it so
Neville wasn't satisfied
With the with Jack Herrera he felt it was still unfinished and he left
He left
Sensi later that year and he kept working on the project and he got a shanty Baba to help him
And they basically they had the mothers that they wanted they were gonna use the c5 and the 122 and they kept trying to find
Different skunk haze dads that would do what they wanted
Yeah, and according to them it took a long time and a bunch of different males and a bunch of different growing shit out a
bunch of pain in the ass, but
After a few years they found a skunk haze dad
Yeah worked and Neville preferred that skunk haze crossed to the
c5 and shanty preferred that same dad crossed to the
122 and they couldn't agree on which one was the better line and better representative
So they released both and
they called the skunk haze by c5 the super silver haze and they called the
Mango haze by same skunk dad mango haze
You know super super haze is one that I've actually ran a bunch of and that's one that I had the hardest time finding
Keepers in but I have smoked others keepers
Like I said, it'll it's always one of my favorite, but there are some really good keepers out there
But I just never had left with super so I brought I brought some to I think our party a couple of times
It wasn't mine wasn't super elite. I wouldn't say it was a nice cut
It yielded like crazy. It was great to depth and great to grow outside
Yeah, and it had a lot of qualities you want in mold resistance and just general happiness
you know, it had a light terpene lean base or whatever, but
But so basically super silver haze and Neville and mango haze are two sisters crossed to the same dad
You know, so they're pretty close but they're just different, you know
Super silver haze tends to be more terpene lean mango. Haze tends to be a bit more mercy
Bit more bit more mango style I tend to I like the mango haze better as a haze
The super silver haze is a crazy production plan. Yeah, and then I've had some euros tell me
Like gene finder that there was a super silver haze in Europe. That was like a 14 weaker. That was like their all-time favorite
Interesting that one seems lost. Oh, that sucks. It does
But there was an outlier that was a more hazy more, you know more more, you know less gunk
More haze and that one was supposedly phenomenal
But in a polyhybrid, it's gonna be hard to find something, you know
Neville complained that none of his polyhybrid work was as nice as any of the f1s. Yeah
No matter how hard he tried. They just weren't quite as good
You know
But I will say that that Neville's haze that he made it's the most potent sativa
I've ever tried in my life, and I know that cut still exists in Europe. Yeah
So it's really amazing. You know, it's interesting. I just thought about it
I don't think most breeders or seed makers even talk about the failures anymore
No, well that's because
Most of Instagram and social media is marketing. Yeah. Yeah, I guess it doesn't pay to talk about your failures
Like do you know? Yeah, I mean, you know what the greatest cure for powdery mildew was
What comes the gram? Oh, oh, you know, you're right. Yeah, it just disappeared. Never see it gone. So weird
Yeah, no one ever struggles with it
Right, and I you know why because it gets curated out. Yep. You're like, oh, this is a beautiful bud
And there's like one spot of you know of mildew on a family for your whatever and you're just like fuck I
remember, you know
This is a little off topic
But I do remember when swerves Cali connection story came out in high times and he was so proud and you fucking took pictures of
It's through it online and the first thing everyone sees is big old powdery mildew fucking spots all over his leaves
Yeah, we used to get grilled if you'd show up with powdery mildew on anything
So I think the internet culture kind of negated that because people would get fucking railed on
Seeing it you want to know how I'm I'm not big on conspiracy theories
Yeah, you know, but I'll tell a story that most people don't know
What's that is that the thing that sent powdery mildew into Northern California?
Mendo and humble and made it forever an issue. Yeah was Osama bin Laden and 9-11
Why is that? It's fucking crazy. So
9-11 happens right? It's September 11th and
He crashes he crashes these airliners into the Twin Towers, right?
Yeah, so everybody's all freaked out and they shut down airliners for three days
Yeah, okay, but they were worried about them. I'll kind of planning biological attacks on cities
So they grounded all America's spray planes so they couldn't spray biological agents for eight weeks
Okay, so from so from September 11th all the way through September all the way through October
No spray pains could be in Marin and Sonoma in Napa in Mendo. You couldn't have spray points
Okay, and that's how a bunch of those places controlled powdery mildew
Wow, okay. So then in the Santa Rosa paper, which is the big town in Sonoma
Afterwards you see things like Robert Mondavi and other people losing millions of dollars in grapes this year to powdery mildew
And all those vineyards are all right by the highway
Yeah, and I shit you not dude in the 90s and in 2000 2001 all the hydro stores
I would go into none of them had any powdery mildew control
None of my friends had powdery mildew powdery mildew was something that you got like
Outdoor maybe in October maybe a touch here and there if you got unlucky
Never saw it. Never saw it indoor. Never ever ever not not a single clone ever
And within two months of 9-11 happening every single one of my friends had it
Yeah, and then within a year or two every hydro store had a whole shelf. Oh
No, here's how to kill the shit
You know, there was stuff there was biologicals like a q10
You know, there was there was you know, you know
There was a learning about how to kill that shit and how to get rid of it was uncomfortable
Yeah, it was really bunk because it looked like in the beginning. It wasn't fucking up your weed
Yeah, but it really fucked up your weed. Oh, it really fucks it up. You know, it's like you think spider mites are fucking up
Your weed they're not really fucking up your weed. Yeah
That's really really messing with your herb
And so it took a number of years to figure out how to not transfer it how to you know
No one had ever dealt with it. Yeah
I'd never seen it like the first two three years. I lived in California four years
Maybe I never saw a single indoor my friends or myself that ever had it
Yeah, no, that's crazy. That's so not and now it's like it and then once it became but then you if you if you think
About it, right imagine
thousands of acres of grapes
kicking off clouds as
the highway drives by
PM that they can't treat
Jesus Christ
It just it just it just got all over people's fucking tires it got kicked in the air
It got all over the place and then it's like it's been I'm not saying that that's the only reason but it's been a problem
Ever since yeah in all honesty and then all those clones from NorCal get spread out all over
Yeah, and then people get PM and they don't know how to deal with it. They don't know how to get rid of it. Yeah and
You know
And it's you know, it's it's just one of those pathogens
Yeah, it's it's obnoxious as fuck
It's it's evil. I was just gonna run these by since we're winding down on the I was just looking
These were in the same bag with the Cali mist and the bubblegum and stuff
I actually was able recently to send a bunch of these back old
Spice of life. I have some old legend seeds actually my my last attack of the Johnny Blaze that people were mentioning
I finally got them to get those back in the hands of red who made them
So I think red might be making some new versions of the old legend seed stuff soon
So people that were interested in those you might have a little bit
back to fruition
Legends was a good was a good company from yeah a while there. They had a bunch of good shit
Yeah, reds reds the shit. I
Like that guy a lot. I do you want it? You want to do some quick questions?
Sure we can do questions. All right
Any that you saw that you want to pick up on? Oh, man. Now you're gonna call me out and make me remember
Yeah, if people are listening ask questions right now. Yeah, so you have a dying question that you have to ask
Can you speak on the Hawaiian lights? What's plant like how does it compare to the nl5? I'll do that real quick
I also sent red back some legends ultimate indica Dickey. He also got the legends ultimate indica for me
Hawaiian lights is
Oddly enough. It's more Afghani even than the nl5. It tends to be more broadly for an expression
We saw some bubble looking types in it that weren't Bubba smelling but they were just the the typical Bubba structure
Lots of resin production. There was some color in these lots of tropical turps lots of pineapple
Just all through the the tropical range
Trying to think of what the best way to describe that is but it's really hard
tropical think tropical basically tropical Afghani and that is essentially what Hawaiian lights comes out like
Very variant, but they all are pretty much broadleaf. So yeah, that's that's a Hawaiian lights in a nutshell
We'll have Caleb come on and talk more about it soon
We're gonna be dropping the hybrids. I believe this weekend
I'm gonna do my best. I've been packaging a bunch trying to get through all the packages and orders
So once those are done, then I'll add in the Hawaiian lights hybrid
So keep your eyes posted on right Cico calm and humbled CSI calm for both. So there's a couple
There's a bunch of questions out. Yeah, there's there was some stuff on leather turps
The a5 and some of the some of the rare haze turps definitely have some leather in them
Animal and leather I actually kind of prefer that dark profile to like the super bright fruity
terpenelein type of thing on it
You know, there's there's haze lines available all over the trouble is just pulling out what you want out of them
You know, there's a merry
Leather is also a motor rebels. Harijuana his version of steeped tux. Harijuana, which is very different is very there's a lot of leather in it
Yeah, and there's there's you know, there's some American seed companies that I want that are
You know
They're crossing things to Cuban black and other haze things
There's obviously some European seed companies like Shanti Baba that have some stuff
there's a big debate on what he's lost and what he's had but
You know, you can definitely get it seems like the mango haze
Is still really good from him
You know, there's smaller breeders doing smaller work on hazes. It definitely is easier to get it
well, I don't know easier to get but
You know, there's there's good haze cuts out there that are starting to slip out a little bit more wide
You know that kind of thing so
you know, like
There's some that are
You know, that kind of thing.
So you know, people were talking about when did the first cookie pop out?
That's a whole show in itself, but probably by probably like, oh, nine ish.
Yeah, I would say.
I can't talk about somebody mentioned the legitimacy of Scott from Rare Danks, Neville's
Hayes couldn't tell you.
Just no idea.
You know, Neville's Hayes has been for sale for a long time.
If you use Neville's Hayes from Neville couldn't tell you what era was from.
No information on that as far as that goes.
But you know, you know, there's big debates.
People talk about newer, newer releases of shanty stuff don't have that.
People always get that way.
Sometimes I wonder if it doesn't have that or just you found it in one or two packs and
then you go through five or six more packs looking for it.
You don't find it.
Yeah.
Did you find it on there?
Did you just not see it that time?
Yeah.
Did the luck of the draw not pop up?
You know, because it's a super bitch to find one that you want.
Purple Hayes was a super famous Hayes from the original.
Hayes lines from America, you know, they kind of said they kind of bred it out on accident.
It was actually magenta Hayes on the poster now that I think about it.
Yeah.
Magenta.
Yeah.
You know, you know.
The problem with Hayes is that it's hard to find keepers.
It's rare, but there is a bunch of interest in it all of a sudden in the last two or three
years.
And so that's gotten some American breeders collecting cuts and making hybrids.
And you can find out Johnny come lately, motherfuckers, you know, just just be prepared to hunt through
some jungle weed and you know, and don't don't let you know, we should mention we should
mention that if we're talking about jungle weed, there is a super famous cut of NL5 Hayes
A I think in Holland and it's called Dr. Grinspoon.
It's called Quaze motherfucker.
Quaze.
Right.
Okay.
Whatever.
Quaze, Dr. Grinspoon.
I'm just going to say most people probably know it as.
One's an S one of the other.
It's not the same thing.
Okay.
Anyway, Quaze.
I'm going to call it Quaze.
Yes.
I mean, the point I was trying to make is when you watch this thing grow, it's a million
little calyxes like this fucking big.
It's like the kind of thing where 99% of growers would cut that shit halfway through.
Right.
It produces a million little one hitter type bong rips.
Yeah.
But the weed off, it's unbelievable.
Yeah.
So if you're growing Hayes, don't go by looks.
Yeah.
Don't go by looks until you can smoke it and see what the effect is and see what the
taste is.
Yeah.
Because some of the shittiest looking weed imaginable, and I'm talking ugly, like Hayes
is not IG photogenic.
No.
There is a lot of ugly Hayes, brown, shitty fucking growth, hairy looking, but then you
smoke it and it tears your head off and it tastes delicious and you're happy and giggling
and life is good.
So you really have to make sure don't give up early because that's what everybody does.
Yeah.
I bloomed out the quays, didn't keep cuts.
I was like, what's this shit?
And I did pollinate it, but I was like, nah.
I mean, Neville even talked about his favorite female.
He bloomed it out and it took 20 weeks and he thought it was the hairiest, ugliest, never
finishing piece of shit ever.
And he cut it down and he hung it in a corner and he killed the mom.
And then a month later he made some hash out of it and he said it was some of the best
weed he'd ever smoked in his life and he still regretted losing it.
But by looks it was the ugliest piece of shit he'd ever seen.
So you can't judge Hayes.
Hayes is not cookie.
Hayes is not photogenic.
What you're going for with Hayes is taste and effect.
It's going to be a gnarly, big, ugly plant.
You could get some pretty ones.
It's not impossible, but don't give up if it looks hideous.
There's only a few people I've seen make pure Hayes look photogenic and very, very
few.
Yeah.
And then on top of that, what's going to happen more often than not is that ugly piece
of shit that you held onto that you had dreams for that was going to be it, isn't it?
And then it's just an ugly piece of shit, you know?
Because that happened to me quite a bit too.
You know, it's like I buy all this Neville's Hayes and it takes me fucking forever to do
it.
And it's like 14, 18, whatever weeks.
And then I'm like, oh, I don't want to keep it.
Yeah.
I will say like I never really rocked Rare Datemas stuff just because the guy was a dick
to me.
But a lot of people do like the Moonshine Hayes.
I got to smoke it once at one of the Denver Cannabis Cups at some Mad Ball or something.
I can't remember who was playing, but it was some punk rock show.
And it was pretty good.
Not going to lie.
Even as biased as I am, it was pretty good for a fucking Hayes.
I think Reach did a good job on the Moonshine.
If you limit your seeds to only people you think you like, you're really limiting your
seeds in cannabis.
Yeah, yeah, very much so.
Sometimes weirdos and assholes and whatnot, sometimes they pop out fire.
Yeah.
You know?
Yeah.
I don't even know dude, so I'm not even dissing him.
I'm just saying that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That it's tough.
That's what makes Hayes tough.
It's tough to find.
It's cool that people are trying to make more accessible Hayes.
And that it's kind of gaining in popularity again, especially from some of these smaller
seed companies and people trying to pump it in New York because that'll keep it alive.
You need periodic booms of interest to keep things going.
Yeah.
You know, you really do.
Like I said, when I was selling Pith, nobody wanted it.
And now it's very in demand.
I wish I would have sat on those seeds, froze them, you know, till now, but that's not how
shit works.
Yeah.
I was joking about Rare Skunk One the other show.
Yeah.
You know, 15 years ago, you couldn't give skunk away.
No.
Couldn't.
You know, a lot of the companies put free skunk one or skunk Hayes or skunk whatever
hybrids.
Skunk one hybrids out there.
Yeah.
Because they just had so much, they just had so many stock and they never sold any.
So you might as well make people happy and throw in four seeds.
Yep.
Now people are like, well, maybe there's some secret sauce in this old skunk one that I
can find.
Yeah.
The secret skunky smells.
You know, you'd have a lot better luck hunting for something secret in Hayes.
Yeah.
Then you would in skunk one.
That's for sure.
Skunk one, people have probably pushed it to its limit.
Yeah.
Hayes, there's still surprises.
And people asked, I should just remember because it popped into my head.
People asked about the bandaid Hayes seven.
Yes.
Because that's a cut that floats around.
I will say that people I respect like Yo Sammy in Europe and others have told me they view
that cut as equal to the old cuts that they hold.
That's pretty cool.
So it's the first Hayes in a long time that they feel is as good and stands right there
with those old 25, 30 year old strains that have been kept forever.
That's interesting.
And it's a lot more accessible to people.
Yeah.
And you know, in America than a lot of these other ones that I talked about these things
are I should mention people think I'm connected or whatever.
I have been fucking hunting all of these European Hayes cuts since the 90s.
Yeah.
You know, and it was like the white rabbit.
It was like multi decades of looking.
And there's still some like that Neville's Hayes cut.
I want that thing so bad.
I know where it is.
I can't get it.
You know, if it's in America, I don't know about it.
You know, but anyway, the Bandaid Hayes seven is an amazing cut.
Amazing effect.
They're growing it over in Europe.
They love it.
It's easier to get in America than the rest of them.
It does take forever, you know, so be prepared to go 14 weeks or whatever.
But it's a fire cut by all accounts.
Yeah.
And I believe that's Cuban black.
Hayes cross to a five tie.
I believe so.
Yeah.
Whatever Cuban black is.
Yeah.
So whatever.
So it's possible that you know, it's that it's it's a C five cut by an A five cut by
some a tie male to prototype.
Maybe.
Maybe.
Yeah.
But whatever whatever case may be.
There's a cut.
You can still buy Bandaid Hayes seeds.
There's various versions of them.
And there's at least this one cut that came out elite status.
Yeah.
And the people that have been running a lot of these hazes for 30 years, if they think
it's as good as the rest of them.
You know, that's pretty high praise from them.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Adoptees doing a lot of work that he's good, dude.
So you know, yeah, we did talk about Tom Hill just in brief.
Not very not for very long.
You know, but Tom Hill did release did have Tom Hill Hayes and did have Tom Hayes, Tom
Hill Hayes by deep chunk.
And maybe some other more work around that.
Yeah.
And I believe all of his stuff descends from positronics Hayes lines.
The fuzz around is kind of saying that you're wrong about A five and C five not existing.
I don't think he's confused.
No, they definitely exist.
Yeah, they definitely exist.
What I'm saying is that there's various Hayes cuts that I know are alive in Europe, and
I don't know if they're alive here.
Yeah, there's a five and C five that have popped up in America.
And there's a number of people that have them.
There's still politics around releasing seed around it, or trading it or whatever.
So they're still tough.
So they're alive.
Some of them, to be said, some of them have some of them have the virus.
Yeah.
So be careful.
Yeah, I haven't run the SSSC Hayes, someone's asking about but...
That's a good thing to mention.
Because one of the things that's interesting is almost all the Hayes that's available is
based off of Neville's work, which is a couple of males.
Yeah, right.
Or some posi work or whatever.
But Neville's seems to be the stuff that everybody found fire.
Yeah.
And when we interviewed Correll, Correll had a, they had a, it's been confirmed by friends
of mine, he has a 35 plus year old skunk Hayes.
Yeah, that he made from Hayes seeds given to him.
Yeah.
And what's interesting about if you were to get Correll's work and cross it to some of
Neville's work, is that it's not Neville's males.
Yeah, it's another genetic of Hayes.
Yeah.
So it's not quite the same bottleneck.
Yep.
Whatsoever.
You know, because Hayes doesn't like being crossed to itself.
So, and it's from that same batch of seed that Neville got.
You know?
Yeah.
So I didn't really realize that until we talked to him.
Yeah, that was mind blower.
But his SSSC hybrids off that skunk Hayes should be a completely different Hayes that's
been available up until recently.
Yeah.
But from the same seeds from the same era.
I am going to be really excited with some new outdoor space to finally run some of my
Hayes collection and other shit.
Finally get to pop that SSSC stuff because I've really wanted to.
Yeah, so I mean, there's, I don't know, I could try to, you know, at the end of it,
I could try to name, you know, there's dog shit.
And we haven't talked about the Colorado Cough.
No, we didn't talk about the Cough.
The Cough is another.
I think we did an NL5 Hayes episode though.
Yeah, you know.
There's Cough, there's dog shit, there's Cuban Black.
Dutch Treat.
Dutch Treat.
Sweet Skunk from Canada has a bunch of NL5 Hayes in it.
Or is it?
You know, at least in its original form.
So there's a bunch of American cuts that float around.
There's eight or 10 Dutch cuts that float around.
I don't know what that all adds up to.
But what's great is that it seems like from a line that was available in the 90s.
Yeah, there's the Stew, which is one that I don't actually, somebody mentioned that.
I know.
I don't even know that.
I know of the Stew.
The Stew is an old, is another old NL5 Hayes from the East Coast.
I've never actually grown it.
It's been one of those rumors that I hear about.
Okay.
I've heard stories of the Stew.
I've talked to people that I trust that have talked about the Stew.
I've never seen the Stew.
Is it kind of like Disco Stew in the Simpsons where like, the D rubbed off his jacket?
So it was the stud and then the pad got ripped.
I almost want to say, people might get me wrong, but it's like, it's the Stew might
be from Jersey or close somewhere in that New York region.
Okay.
And it's old, but I don't know anything about it.
But it is another supposed NL5 Hayes cut.
And Island Sweet Skunk is a little different than Sweet Skunk.
And then Mark Emery did this thing, you know, that confused the lineage of it.
But as far as we can tell, there is a real Sweet Skunk that was basically mostly NL5
Hayes.
Yeah.
And it got crossed.
Did Steve cross it to like grapefruit or something?
Yeah, I don't know what it was crossed to.
So, you know, anyway, it's cool in the sense that there's a bunch of different phenos that
have survived.
You know, all females, obviously, we don't have any, I don't, you know, people are asking
me where could you get real NL5 Hayes male pollen?
And I think that might be lost to time.
Yeah, we have one of our buddies, Kim Blackburn is a part of the cough crew.
So we have people closer to the cough that know the history of it real well.
So I'll probably bring him on at some point, working man to talk about it.
He's a cough fanatic.
Yeah, and he knows the story pretty well.
I mean, there's some still confusion about it.
There was cough one and there was cough two in Colorado.
I used to smoke the cough in the 90s.
I had really good friends of mine I grew up with that ended up moving out to Boulder in
the mid 90s.
And I used to go out there all the time.
And that's where I smoked that Sandalwood tasting AK 47.
Yeah, and some of those other famous 90s Colorado strains.
But yeah, the cough exists.
The New York stuff exists.
Strawberry cough is much different.
I don't know the origins of strawberry cough.
I know what Cushman says.
I know that it is exactly like Erdbeer in its terms, and has a lot of similar traits
to it.
I'm supposed to be strawberry filled haze for whatever that's worth.
And the cough, you know, the cough basically like got famous in Fort Collins, but I think
it came from Connecticut.
I don't want to misspeak but our buddy working man knows like the people involved and like
the people that brought it to Colorado from there and all that different types of stuff.
So it definitely is.
You know, yeah, you never know the dog shit.
The dog shit I really wish still had its original name.
Its original name is right up there with Western Winds is one of my favorites.
The dog shit Minneapolis was called electric boogaloo.
Yeah, you know, it sucks is like, I was doing the labels for the dog shit cross to the Hawaiian
lights and I was like, I just wanted to put electric boogaloo.
But I know most people won't even associate that with the dog shit cut and they'll just
sit there.
You know?
Yeah.
You know, it'll just sit there.
But electric boogaloo is one of the all time great names.
Yeah, you know, I love it.
Someone was asking about deep chunk strawberry cough belong to.
It's like a lion something farm.
Yeah, I mean, the cough is super well known.
We still have good friends that grow the cough that we talk to all the time.
So luckily the cough is alive and well.
You know, there's haze in Florida that got shipped to New York.
You know, there's crews of Cubans down there.
There's crews of Cubans and Dominicans in New York that run it.
There's you know, haze head.
Cabin fever.
That's totally incorrect.
It was what I was just talking about.
It's not fucking mad farmer.
He had nothing to do with that cut.
It was a cut out of blue sky cafe.
Originally and it was made by lion something farms.
You can still find the info on IC mag way back when he made it long before mad farmer
came to this.
And it's an aft gooey crust deep chunk.
It is not strawberry cough deep chunk.
So it was just relabeled by blue sky.
There we go.
But one of the things I should say about one of the things that draws people to haze is
that we live in an indica dominated.
It's like the exact opposite of the 70s and 80s where excuse me where sativa ruled the
game.
Yeah, we live in an indica and indica dominant scene.
Yeah.
And haze is a tie back to that ancient, you know, no longer available import.
And it seems like it gives people a better high in a different way.
It has a different high profile.
It hits people.
And even if people are extremely used to an experience with smoking chems or, you know,
oh, geez, or whatever, you can smoke some haze and have it hit you like a brick.
So even though it's ugly and takes a long time and has these various issues, it's popular
for my favorite reason for weed to be popular.
Because it works.
Yeah, it works.
You know, so that's the best reason to like weed.
Weed that works.
Weed that works.
You know?
Yeah.
So.
All right, I'm gonna we're at 103 minutes.
So I think we are good for this session.
We are good for the session.
So I mean, once again, everyone, thank you for giving us like your Friday night to listen
to me ramble and, you know, and whatnot.
And Matt, shoot the shit.
And you know, you can reach out to us on our Discord, on our on our Speakeasy Discord.
You can reach out to us on our IG pages.
The Discord's easier.
We always are down in the chat.
Breeders Syndicate Discord.
The Speakeasy Discord is a different one.
Oh, yeah, that's right.
See, I misspeak.
I should let you do the I'm so bad at any kind of promotion.
I know I appreciated it.
I was watching.
I was letting you roll.
But yeah, so the Breeders Syndicate Discord, we post on there quite a bit.
We answer questions all the time.
We're always down for people to give us ideas of it's all about like what you guys want
to hear about.
We're trying all the time to like bring people history and make it modern and tie it into
what they know and expand people's knowledge and stuff like that.
So once again, into it, you know, you can search for Breeders Syndicate on Google.
Breeders Syndicate Patreon.
Breeders Syndicate Patreon.
See, I this this.
You're almost there.
I'm almost there.
I'm almost there.
But anyway, thanks for listening, everyone.
We'll have we'll be there.
We'll be here next week.
I'll see you soon.
Hawaiian Lights Hybrid is coming soon.
Right at Zco.com.
If you're a Patreon member, you'll get first access to them and they're way cheaper for
you.
Cheers.
Thanks, Toto.
Peace.
