Welcome to Breeder's Syndicate, where we explore the history of a clandestine scene
through the eyes of the folks who lived it.
I'm Matthew, owner of Riot Seeds.
I'll occasionally be joined by my co-host NotSoDawg, breeder and grower from Mendocino.
Welcome to the underground.
So tonight, I thought we would go over a little bit, because last week a lot of you remember,
we didn't get to a lot of questions when it came to the hot slate and viroid stuff.
So we wanted to get to a lot of interactive questions for that.
I guess that's, I don't even know how to word it.
Yeah, I mean, we, for various reasons, we had to kill the comments last time.
So we didn't end up seeing a bunch of people's stuff.
And so I don't think the viroid is probably like, unless I really pontificate a lot, I
don't think the viroid is a whole show.
But if people have questions, if people have general questions that they want to ask, tonight
would be a good time to lay them out there.
Yeah, I thought, like, one of the things that I really took away from the viroid topic,
and I think this is the first thing that jumped out at me, we were talking about, you know,
the different, I mean, different techniques people use for cloning.
If you have an edge that's cut, where it's a wound, as she called it.
I mean, you can't use arrow cloners with different strains, you know, if you're if that's what
you're doing, it really kind of wipes out that whole situation for being a viable product
in this market.
I mean, there was there's an aspect of that.
And then there's like, there's actually, there's actually some new tech that coming out for
or not new tech, but there's there's new to cannabis tech that's kind of being pushed
right now for cloning, which I think is pretty cool.
And I actually believe, or I believe I should say, is a big addition.
So I've seen I've seen some people try to get around it.
But there, people have been asking about like, cloning tech, and safe practices.
And then there's also been a bunch of people that have been asking about, you know, and
this kind of sucks, too.
But they've been asking about like drying and curing, and how to get better weed.
Which you know, to be honest, like, it's actually one of the few things I'm like hesitant to
talk about because I, you know, most corporate people grow shitty weed.
Yeah, and they don't realize what corners to cut.
But then I don't necessarily want to deny like a bunch of like home growers and stuff
like that better technique either.
So it's like, we're watching this shit anyway.
It turned off to me a long time ago.
It's a weird, it's a weird conundrum.
So if people want to hear about drying and curing tech and a way to get better tasting
weed, you could start start throwing it up in the comments.
You know, so another thing she addressed, and a lot of people, like I said, were arguing
about before the show, and even after was the relevance to hops latent, showing up
in the progeny of seed.
Now, I thought about it all weekend, you know, a bunch about different clones that have been
used that we know pretty sure have hops latent.
One that I know for sure had it when I got it back in the day, and we didn't know what
it was at the time was Jaisal.
Jaisal is well known to have some kind of sickness and later on it got tested, it does
have HLV.
Jaisal has been used in a lot, a lot, a lot, a lot of stuff.
And we've never seen any progeny from any Jaisal, anything, show any of the dudding
traits on their own.
Now, is it in there?
Maybe, but I mean, the progeny doesn't come up for it in the test.
So that 8% number seems awfully high.
I mean, it's not having a reference.
One thing we should probably mention that's important, and I think we brought it up on
the previous show, is that most of the stuff she was talking about, and this is where people
get mad at science, especially like to use the COVID thing or whatever, is because if
science gets proven incorrect, they think it's all bullshit.
But that's how science is.
It's correct until somebody can prove that it's incorrect, or there's a different technique.
And that doesn't mean that like, you know, I mean, it's obviously like what we know at
the time.
But most of what she was trying to express to us about HopLatent, because cannabis is
not very well studied, are other viroids similar to HopLatent.
And other studies done, there's not a lot of work done specifically on HopLatent in
cannabis.
Yeah, exactly.
So she was trying to give us her best explanation on what was ongoing currently.
And best educated guesses based on available information in other cultivars, or not even
just cultivars, other, I don't know, species.
Yeah, and there's an aspect when people are asking about false positives.
I think with any kind of test, there's a decent percentage for false positives that can exist.
And then I also think that just because you get a negative test once doesn't mean you're
exactly in the clear either.
Yeah.
You know, so I think there's that.
And you know, sadly, with the proliferation of cuttings now these days, and the lack of
cleanliness and stuff like that, I can safely say that like, I mean, maybe you can Matt
to speak on this before, but in the early days of like clone trading and stuff like
that, nobody worried about this stuff at all.
Not stuff like that.
No, no.
In the early days of clone trading, when I first was entering in, the term dud had barely
just started to even be, I think it was even years later, a few years later that they even
like, hey, this thing might be a dud.
I don't know.
You know, it's passing.
And that, you know, there's been for a long time, you know, that's one of the things I
think dudding, dudding is a term we use in cannabis to basically describe a plant that's
acting unhealthy.
Yeah.
And I don't, I think that that hops late and can be a cause of dudding.
But you know, I also think that there's a variety of other diseases and probably unknown
viruses and things like that that could also come up later that are going to get spread
around, you know?
So you know, I think she was fair and that what she told us was best knowledge.
I think there's a lot of unknowns and I think that a lot of like the basic cleanliness and
maintenance techniques, which are not common in cannabis need to start getting applied.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's for sure.
Yeah.
All that, all that is good technique.
I've been trying to get people to do that with germinating seeds for a long time using
as sterile a technique as they can because it does matter.
You know, a lot of people do the old like, well, if a plant in nature dropped seeds in
the ground, after when they pop up, you know, I can do whatever and put whatever and you
don't have to be clean to pop seeds.
But really it does matter if you're spending a good amount of money on seeds.
It's the really does matter.
That's the point, right?
If you buy a $2 pack of tomato seeds and you don't get that great of a germination rate,
nobody cares.
Yeah.
If you give Matt Riott $300 and you don't have good tech and four of them don't pop
and now you're pissed.
Yes.
So because cannabis seeds are tended to have a tendency to be expensive, you know, you
probably want to take the small extra steps needed to like get as much success as human
as possible.
Yeah.
You know?
Yeah.
You know, so, you know, there's an aspect where, as she was saying on the show before,
you know, I do believe that there's a potential for people to clone out of it.
You know, I don't think that's an impossibility, but like she made a very good point in that
the viroid is extremely tiny and all it takes is one little bit of it to be able to replicate
itself and slowly come back.
You know?
So what I actually think is, you know, what people should probably do is, you know, is
have a quarantine situation and people put plants into quarantine to check for, you know,
russets or broad mites or other pests or things like that.
It's probably advisable to maybe get a cheap test a couple of times on an important plant.
Yeah.
And hopefully we'll have a situation like I was mentioning before where like eventually
they'll make nurseries, you know, have a clean bill of health.
You know?
I would think so.
And we've seen any number of clones of private clone sellers have to temporarily shut down
their clone selling because, you know, customers have been buying expensive plants and then
it tends to be positive.
So that's an interesting question about the super dog.
Go ahead.
Well, you know, I would say that there was a lot of when people, someone just asked for
people that aren't seeing it.
When we were doing all of our super dog seeds, did we find sour phenos?
And I would say, yes, we did.
Not so much in look, more in nose.
You know?
There's definitely, you know, the pathway we took to sour, to super dog is a little
different than what happened with sour diesel.
But I think that when you cross skunk and chem in certain ways, you're going to get
certain things that come up.
If you look through big…
Careful with that terminology.
Remember, most people are going to think you're talking about skunk one when you say skunk.
We actually considered today to bullshit for a second.
We actually considered doing a whole show on skunk one because it's got such a long
history and it's got so much misconceptions these days.
But it does seem like Sam Skunkman might be giving a rendition of his opinion.
And so maybe we can follow that because it's always good to get the, you know, and then,
you know, we'll have an idea of like what…
Because lots has been said.
Yeah.
He's been invited on the show.
So he knows that he has a standing invitation to come on and talk about anything he wants
to.
But some people are clear, you know, because Matt, you know, Matt's right, is that, you
know, Sam intentionally bred all skunky aroma out of skunk one for a long time.
That was a claim.
Yes.
And he's made that claim consistently over a very long period of time.
And it does seem like the first plants of skunk that he brought over to Holland had
a little bit more skunkiness in them than the later ones.
But you know, there's an immense amount of people that have been looking through skunk
one for skunk and not finding it.
It seems like the skunk that got used in Sour was a blend of different skunks and then blended
into super skunk and then some other accidents.
So it's kind of…
It's not…
It's not a clear path.
When you say a blend of different skunks, are you saying a blend of different skunk
ones or are you using a different term?
You know, so it's…
Matt and I have some connections to the gentleman who bred that clone, right?
And he's given us, unfortunately, like a lot of these old timers from the 80s, you
would like a well written out lineage with exacts.
And it was mostly he bought things from SSSC and from Neville that had skunk in it and
blended them together for two or three years and then crossed something of that into super
skunk and then we got the skunk that became famous.
Okay, again, you say skunk very freely.
Are you saying skunk one?
I would assume so because he said he was buying skunky things from Neville and Super
City of the Seed Club, right?
So he was buying hybrids and he was blending them together for two or three years.
I believe he even referred to that line as skunky skunk, right?
Skunky skunk, yeah.
That's right.
Skunky skunk.
And then he took that line and the first year that Neville actually released the super skunk,
which is sort of a line that puts skunk back into skunk as it were.
So if he's correct and he's telling us the truth, which I don't have any reason to doubt,
it seems like half of the thing that became very famous is a blend of Neville's and Super
City of the Seed Club work and half of it is super skunk itself from the first year
of from 1990.
Yeah.
Right.
And then from that on, there was some hermaphroditic accidents and there was this and that and
it gets even more convoluted.
So it's, you know, in order for Neville to find skunk, he had to take the skunkiest thing
of skunk one that he could find and cross it to a totally unrelated genetic maple leaf.
Yes.
And so, you know, for whatever that is worth.
Yeah.
Someone just asked.
Yeah, there was there.
It is it is from Virginia.
There was a gentleman that was, you know, older than us and involved in Dead Tour.
And he he did you know, they did some breeding, but like a lot of a lot of 80s breeding.
He didn't have a bunch of notes and he didn't come out with this was step one.
This was step two.
This was step three.
It's much more general.
It's like when we interviewed when you when you and Kansa interviewed Greg.
Yeah.
And it was a few specifics and a lot of mysterious, you know.
Yeah.
There wasn't a lot of detail on the NLs as far as specifics.
There was a couple of things.
Yeah.
You know, so be that as it may, like, we're not going to actually do a we're not going
to actually do a big skunk one thing.
But in that it is probably worthwhile to go over it at some point.
But maybe we'll pick up where, you know, we'll fill in gaps and comment on what Sam is saying
soon.
Yeah.
You know.
But anyway, I have a much I have just like such a much different take on skunk one and
everything that it has to do with it.
Like, it's just it's a different take because I wasn't around like during those early eras
to have bought skunk one from like the first year it was produced or even smoked anything
like that.
My only skunk one started much later, you know, in the in the 2000s.
So my experience with it is only the clones that we have left, the old clones that I've
run, skunk one like the cheese and other stuff like that.
And other stuff with heavy skunk one influences that I learned over time were very similar
to what I'm seeing out of skunk one seed lines like the pure from Flying Dutchman we
got to run.
But I didn't see anything capable of producing anything like the turps we would see in super
skunk or not turps, but the same thing we see in super skunk.
And even looking at everything that skunk one touches and breathes outwards, you just
never seeing anything like that in any of it.
Well, what's interesting is Matt and I got to interview Karel from Super City of the
Seed Club.
And one of the questions I can't remember if it was when you asked him or when it was
my section of it, but I can't remember.
He did mention that the skunk that got brought over in 84, 85, you know, was different than
later open pollinations and later breedings and that type of stuff.
It was a little raw.
Yeah.
And I think even Sam said that there maybe was a small, there was a small possibility
you could find something like that in there.
But then later on it was, it was basically out.
And a lot of the recent scams that have been going on in the last five or six years are
turning on that hope that, oh, my skunk is old enough that you're going to find in there
this, this thing that Sam hadn't bred out yet, you know?
And so I see some pretty cool comments in the, in here.
There's a, people were talking about Pot of Gold, which, I love Pot of Gold, which is
Hindu by Skunk One.
And there's, there was another thing, you know, that was from the Flying Dutchman.
And if I'm correct, I believe the Flying Dutchman was basically a, I don't want to say a front
for Sam, but they, it seems like they bought most of their wholesale seed stock from Sam.
Because Sam was willing to sell wholesale within Holland, which was legal, and not willing
to sell retail.
You know?
And, you know, there's another guy that just asked if Silver Pearl, we both described Silver
Pearl differently.
Yeah, very good.
And you know, that people have-
It's smelling the same grows of the same bud too.
People have different interpretations of the same thing.
You know, people have different, people have different, you know, they get different noses
off things.
They can get different effects off things, you know?
And Silver Pearl is actually an early polyhybrid too.
So there can be different expressions off it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You know, and that, it's, it's cause I believe it's, it's Early Pearl by Northern Lights
by Skunk One.
And Early Pearl is Early Girl.
Like I mean, it's a, it's a hybrid of a whole, it's, it's got a whole bunch of different
It's crazy that it was so consistent too.
Like as far as its expressions being that much of a polyhybrid, it makes me wonder how
much work went into it beforehand for it to be so consistent, like with its expressions
that it throws.
And you know, there's another, there's a gentleman in the, in the thing that was saying that
now we're getting a little off topic, but he was saying that Maple Leaf Indica is probably
the last thing that Sensi has that is original after the Dutch raids.
I don't believe that to be honest.
And I know, and maybe a little bit of history is, is required there.
So Maple Leaf was given to Neville by a character named Jim Ortega.
And Neville sold it raw, as you, as it were, at the seed bank for about three years.
And then when he got busted and he sold his company to Sensi Seeds, it disappeared off
the menu.
I think Matt, for what it was like about eight years.
It was a long time.
It was about eight years.
And then it reappeared probably about 1999.
It reappeared on Sensi's catalog three or four years after Neville had left.
And so as near as we can determine, that was no longer the original Maple Leaf.
It was a hodgepodge of a few different Maple Leaf phenos crossed a skunk one.
That Neville had made it, made it Sensi, but was unreleased.
So it's not pure Maple Leaf anymore.
And then on top of that, after the bust, at some point Sensi outsourced most, almost all
of its breeding to Spain.
So I would, I would love for there to be some original things from Sensi left.
I just don't put any trust into, you know, I don't put any trust into it.
I've seen stuff from Sensi that came out post, you know, 2000s and stuff like that,
that looked like super skunk.
They actually looked like it, but none of it, it was all very skunk one dominant type
sense, though.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And I mean, you know, skunk one, sadly, it's, it's, you know, it's got skunk in the name.
So people really want to associate it with that, you know, but
It'll forever be done every few years by the next Yahoo that comes in and declares, I've
got skunk, I got the original skunk one.
It's brand new.
You know, I'm a, I'm a little bit more, people are talking in the comments again, so maybe
we'll just kind of ramble for a bit, but people were talking in the comments.
I thought Scott Neville did a lot together.
That doesn't seem to be too terribly true.
Yeah.
I, I'm a little bit more of a shanty backer than most in our crew, I would say.
So what it does seem is that, you know, Neville partnered with shanty and greenhouse after
Sensi.
And then Neville had a partnership a bit with shanty at, at Mr. Nice Seeds.
And Neville did sell some of his old collection of seeds to shanty.
But it doesn't seem that they were heavily involved together for a lot of years in actual
breeding projects.
Is that the sense that you got talking to Neville as well?
That's the sense I got.
I said, I sensed a lot of, yeah, a lot of it, you know, there's, you know, so anyway,
shanty legitimately by Neville's own, own admittance, bought Neville's own old collection
of seeds.
And they certainly partnered together both at greenhouse seeds with Arjun and at Mr.
Nice for a while.
And in terms of them both being in the same breeding room together, doing a lot of work
over a number of years, it seems like as time goes on, that seems less likely than it was
before.
That would be the wildest ego battle I've ever seen.
That would be a Star Wars level ego battle.
That'd be cool.
But be that as it may, maybe we could, maybe we could scroll back a little bit now, because
we got, we got way off topic there a little bit.
But, you know, when it comes to like hop latent or just clean practices in general, there's
a, there's a new, you know, I've seen people like get like, you know, like, like the restaurant
style like, you know, like red ketchup containers, and they squirt a little bit of gel into each
plug and stuff like that, you know, so you don't because one of the big things is that
all of a sudden we're learning you don't want to dip a raw cut into a liquid or a gel
that then you dip another raw, it's basically like an open wound.
Yeah.
So if you don't want to spread the viroid, you probably don't want to like share the
same liquid with hundreds of different open wounds.
It would be nice if they just had a little squeeze bottle with a little fucking thing.
Remember, though, one company used to do that.
People are doing that.
And that seems cool.
But there is this thing that's going on.
There's this gentleman, I don't usually give shouts out to people.
But, but I'll say there's a guy on IG called slow nickel.
Okay, okay.
And he's an agronomist, right?
And he mostly does stuff with, you know, he's, he mostly seems like he works in the south
and Central America growing a lot of different kind of crops and vegetables.
But he makes this really interesting point, which vibes with me really strongly, in which
he does this thing that's incredibly counterintuitive to me, which is that when you take your rock
will cube or your router, rapid router plug or whatever you're using, right?
Yeah, he dips just the tip of the actual cut itself into some kind of rooting hormone.
Yeah.
And then he sticks that clone so that the actual cut itself is not in the cube.
Okay, so it's actually sticking out of the cube.
Right?
Okay.
And the reason for that is he said that what you want is that you want that open wound
to form a hard callus.
Yeah.
Right?
And then once it forms a callus, then the roots shoot out from there.
And the reason why it makes so much sense to me is he says, if you leave this raw open
wound and you stick it in a rock will cube or you stick it into a rapid router or something,
it'll shoot out a bunch of roots, but it's too moist for it to form that hard callus.
And then essentially you have an open wound that allows a lot of opportunity for fungal
or virus or other various things to get in there.
Right?
Which makes a lot of sense.
Yeah.
You know, and he's shown a lot of examples and a lot of people seem to be really jiving
onto his method.
Right?
And it does make sense because if you think of like human skin, you know, like it's a
big barrier against disease.
Yeah.
Right?
And so, you know, the callus is essentially a scab.
Yeah.
You form a hard scab and then the roots start growing out of the, you know, and that's,
that's pretty new for people.
Most people are just using to stick the cutting into a rock will cube or stick it into a rapid
router or whatever.
And it goes from there.
Yeah.
Right.
And I actually, having seen his tech and looking at it and reading about it, I actually, I
absolutely totally agree with him.
Yeah.
I've been experimenting with it for a while and it makes perfect sense to me.
And it's changed how I do things.
Now, you know, one of the things that you have to do is like a lot of times you'll have
like an insert that you'll stick into a tray and then you'll stick your rock will cube
or your rapid routers so that actually the, the stem that's sticking out is a little elevated.
Yeah.
You see what I'm saying?
So it's not just like touching flat against the tray itself.
I don't even know what the fuck you're talking about when it comes to hanging out of the
plug.
Like how are you going to have it hanging an inch above the plug when it doesn't float
in the air?
So, no, it's more like this.
So imagine, I mean, this is, this is going to look a little salacious or whatever, but
imagine this is your plug.
Yeah.
Right.
And most people would just stick it and leave it inside.
But what he's saying is that have the actual end pop out the bottom.
Penetrate the bottom side.
Gotcha.
Pop out the bottom.
And then if that little callus stick, if that sticks out the bottom, then the actual cut
end will callous over hard.
And honestly, like if you guys, like if you're, if I'm not describing it well, you can look
up slow nickel on IG and he has a really good, he has some good tutorials on a lot of pictures
on it.
But what it basically, what his basic technique is, is just dip the rooting hormone a little
bit in that cut, have that cut callous or seal off like a, like a stab.
And then it roots from there.
And then it doesn't allow this big open pathway highway for, you know, fusarium or disease
to get up into your plant and cause issues.
How about air embolisms?
Like that used to be the big thing.
Like everybody was, don't get the fucking, and I, you know, it's funny as back in the
day I remember Bodhi showed me this, this clone.
Someone showed me this clone tech for, for putting, putting clones.
I just want to say for the crew, when I, when I did the, when I did my little visual right
there, it did feel slightly fifth grade-ish, but here we are, you know?
And for the people on audio that didn't get to see it, he bent over and it was real weird.
Oh man, there we go.
So, but yeah, if you, I don't usually plug people, but if you, if you want to go look
up Slow Nickel, he has a bunch of examples and pictures on his page of the tech that
you can go and make, make a lot of sense of.
And it does make sense to seal the wound, to not have an open wound that allows fungal
matter and different stuff like that to get in there.
Yeah.
Right.
So the problem with that is that if you're going to do that thing, like you were saying,
where you're going to inject a bunch of gel into a rapid router or into a thing, you know,
that's, that's, that's, that's sticking the plant into the cube again.
Yeah.
You know?
So, and you know, like you were saying before, in terms of slowing down HopLatent, it makes
area flows shitty technology.
You really better make sure that the clones you're putting in an area flow are 100% clean.
Yeah.
Because you absolutely will spread it to every other clone in that area flow.
Yeah.
Or in that, in that, you know, area cloner or, you know, whatever, whatever brand you're,
you're familiar with.
It's just a bunch of raw wound cuttings getting sprayed by the same liquid over and over and
over and over again.
So it's a breeding house for disease.
Yeah.
I never liked those things because I just couldn't ever keep it consistently clean.
Like all it took was one little pathogen vector and that was it.
And it would be in the motor.
It would be everywhere in those damn things.
Yeah.
I mean, if you, if the biggest issue with those is that you want to keep your water
temperature in the mid sixties.
Yeah.
That's where you get the most oxygen.
Huh?
Yeah.
A chiller is kind of nice.
Yeah.
And then, and then on top of that, even if you have fungal diseases, like say Pythium
in your water, Pythium can actually reproduce below 68 degrees.
Oh, interesting.
It absolutely can't.
Right.
Which is why I like in rivers and streams or ponds or whatever, if you see cold water,
it's usually clear.
Yeah.
And warm water is usually not.
Interesting.
In that regard.
And so, you know, there, you know, I, all of a sudden my, my, I apologize everyone,
my comments paused and now they just unpaused and now there's a million things going on.
But but anyway, you know, cloning tech, he, it does seem like he is showing cloning tech
that makes a lot of sense.
And just as a general, as a general vibe, sealing, sealing off the wound, you know,
and not allowing and not allowing rot going on there is a big deal.
You know?
And so, you know, people might have to change.
I mean, I used to, I used to dip all of my cuttings in the same solution.
So it really, in order to slow down the hop latent or slow down other diseases now that
we're worried about, you really kind of have to look at like your whole process and look
at every step because you can't do all, you can't do most of the steps right and then
have a centralized thing where you're screwing it all up.
Yeah, I knew a lot of people who would keep moms and use aero cloners to, you know, reinvigorate
their moms, you know, keep their rooms going.
And that might be a technique of the past.
The big, the big problem that I used to run, I used to run aero cloners when I ran water
culture.
The big issue that I had with them when you're running them in soil or something else is
that if you use a rapid router, you use a rockwool plug or anything like that, it just
gives the clone itself an anchor.
You can have like a, you can have a rooted cutting with beautiful roots all coming off
it, and then you transplant it into some soil or whatever else.
And if you don't stabilize it the right way, there's nothing really, it's just a stick
with some roots and it has a tendency to move around a bunch.
Yeah.
You know, so, but really what it is, is that he's shown it a bunch of times.
A lot of times root rot or fusarium or pythium or whatever else can go right up into your
plant.
A lot of times your plant can recover, but those plants end up yielding less than others
or being weaker.
Yeah.
And it seems like it was just an unrealized weak point in a lot of people's cloning method.
Which is cool because now that one of the, there's not been that many benefits of legal
weed, in my opinion.
But one of them might be that some actual agronomists and actual people can bring some
different techniques that might improve cannabis culture and how we do things.
Now before I forget, I want to say some things.
I haven't even told you yet, but Landrace Genetics, I think in the coming week or so,
and this is going to be on their time over in Afghanistan or Pakistan.
I can't remember which part he's in right now, but he's going to take us through a field
as they're harvesting over there live.
Oh wow.
I know.
Isn't that fucking cool?
So he's going to try to set it up with the farmers there so we can go live from the fields
in the Mideast essentially to watch some of the harvesting go down, some of the technique
and maybe help us talk to some of the farmers and translate for us.
So it might be at 2am or 3am or 4am, but I'm going to wake up and do it whatever time it
is because that will be freaking amazing.
It's the other side of the earth.
Somebody commented, I've seen a pic of that NL5.
Tell us about it.
I don't know what you're talking about with that NL5.
I put up a pic of NL5 today.
Oh, fancy.
And it was good.
Yeah, we have a whole episode on Northern Lights with Seattle Greggs.
So please go watch that if you want to learn about Northern Lights.
We have most of our episodes touch something on something Northern Lights at some point.
Yeah, Pakistan, Tara Valley.
Thank you.
It's one of the building blocks.
And because it's so ancient, there's a lot of funny claims popping up now about ancient
NL5 lines recently rediscovered, this and that, pure nevel, this, that, all that.
How would you all rate NL5 haze on a 1 to 10?
I still got to read some more stuff too real quick before we jump into all that.
Oh, sorry.
Yeah, it's all right.
No, go ahead.
Go ahead.
I think NL5 haze is the most successful publicly released hybrid in marijuana history.
Yeah.
And I think there's probably more high quality clones from that line that are still alive
today and circulated than probably any other line.
Yeah.
Realistically speaking.
That's actually why I rate it so highly.
It's not just personal preference.
It's that there's literally like, usually we're lucky if there's one or two at most
cultivars that have survived from their original era that we know are, it is what it is.
And with NL5 haze, there's probably like over 10.
Yeah.
Which is pretty incredible for something that was basically from 85, 88, 89 to 95 or 96
or something.
I think it would probably be fair to say cookies, bad seeds, stomp the shit out of NL5 haze
as far as cuts distributed nowadays.
You know what I mean?
I think that one probably swept the market unfortunately.
I don't know about all that.
Yeah.
I don't get to admit this.
I mean, but what I'll say is that proof will be in the pudding.
So a lot of these NL5 haze cuttings that are still around and kept are 25 to 30 years old.
Right?
Yeah.
So we're looking at another 15 or 20 years and we'll see how many of these original clones
are held onto and hoarded by future generations.
Because that's really the key to staying power.
You can have all the hype you want, but it really better be good to have people keep
coming back to it.
So time will tell.
You know, one of the things about cookie is that it's so much more modern than NL5 haze.
You would think just by the law of averages, there would be way more of it that would survive.
Yeah.
But the only reason why it's going to survive that long or you're going to have that many
cookie cuts survive for that long is if people really love it and really appreciate the smoke.
Yeah.
In my opinion.
I think so.
Yeah.
And I think you're right.
Cookie's probably...
We'll see if it'll stand the test of time.
I will say that that's not exactly a fair comparison because what I was basically doing
is comparing things to like actually released seed lines, you know, where cookie was more
like it got famous as a cut and then bag seeds occurred and then various hybrids occurred
where, you know, it's not like AK-47 or NL5 haze or silver pearl or something where you
could buy seeds of it for a number of years from a company.
Yeah.
You know, and NL5 haze never actually really ruled the market.
Our buddy Crybaby is commenting on that.
It's true.
Super Skunk outsold it a lot, Neville said.
There was other things that were a lot more popular.
I'm just saying that I don't think any seed line has as many different phenos that have
survived as long.
Yeah.
I think that might be fair to say.
You know, I mean, because there's a number of them in Europe and there's a number of
them in America and you start adding all those ones up and all of a sudden you're
at, you know, 10 or 12 clones that are 25 to 35 years each.
I have a theory and I think Crybaby probably has a similar theory based on what we've seen.
I know we've talked about it.
Is that Super Skunk might have a similar history, but we just don't know enough about the cuts
that are out there that are Super Skunk cuts yet.
That's what I think.
Well, one of the things that really sucks from a historian perspective is that Americans
especially are very good about giving counterculture nicknames to their weed.
And so a lot of the original genetics that came over in the 80s and 90s are obscured
because they got a name.
And then we don't know what they are anymore.
So we know that there was an enormous amount of Super Skunk that was sold, but it was probably
given nicknames.
Yes, exactly.
You know, we believe that it's likely that the Puck is a hash plant from Neville.
But it got the nickname the Puck with one crew and then it got the nickname the Skelly
from another crew.
Skelly Hash Plant.
Huh?
It was called Skelly Hash Plant.
Skelly Hash Plant, you know.
I mean, the snow, I've talked about that before.
The snow was called Skunk Five in Florida.
Yeah.
And then it was called Eugene Snow in Glass Blower Circles in Eugene.
It was called Humboldt Snow when our buddy Caleb got a hold of it in the late 90s.
You know, people talking about the dog shit.
The dog shit was called Electric Boogaloo.
Matt and I and friends of ours have been like debating whether or not we think what we think
that is.
But a lot of plants got nicknames.
And those nicknames obscure, you know, what origin it might have come from.
And so far, because Phylos is a liar and other groups are liars, we haven't, I mean, it would
be amazing if we had like a genetic ability to test things and that Corel and Neville
and Sirius and these various groups had their original shit.
And you could just, they could just put that up into a database and then you could map
out what came out of it.
Yeah.
I also have a conversation soon that I was telling you about with Mrs. I want to pronounce
her name right.
Vergara, I want to say, from Cornell University, their cannabis breeding program.
And I'm very interested in talking with her and she's interested in talking with us because
the scientific community is having a hard time understanding why the clones that they
have now currently are not lining up with what they're seeing in the actual genetic
data.
And when I was talking with her, I was like, well, there's a lot of reasons why, because
what you're given is these legacy clones that you guys think you have probably aren't what
they say they are or aren't what Leafly, because they're relying a lot on things like Leafly
for their genetic data.
Like looking at, oh, Leafly says it is XYZ.
So it must be XYZ.
Let's enter it into our little database.
And that's what the problem is always going to be with academia versus traditional farmers.
Because there's a pretty small group of people that know.
And it's even harder to know that you have a legit cut.
And then even for historians like Matt and I and Caleb and others and stuff, sometimes
like the information that we think we know gets turned on its head.
Yeah.
A little bit.
I mean, Matt and I, if you want to talk about the dog shit for a minute, and just so everybody
knows, this is like absolute speculation on my part.
But a lot of people have thought that the dog shit is an old NL5 haze pheno.
Right?
Yeah.
I have thought perhaps that it is a old silver pearl by haze pheno, which was called that
in Neville's catalog.
And then later it was just called silver haze from Sensi.
Yeah.
And that would explain why it's prettier.
Because it doesn't really actually look like the Coff or the A5.
No, never.
And it's not as wild as that.
It's actually a much prettier hybrid.
But it has the haze effect and it certainly has that Neville's feeling to it.
But it looks like it has something else in it.
And that strain was available from about 88 on.
It was available from Neville's catalog and from Sensi.
And that's total speculation, but there's not very many things that came from.
All we know is that it came out of Minneapolis, Minnesota area in the early 90s and came west.
And the rest of it is just observational.
I was thinking NL5 skunk one haze, because I've seen a lot of pretty NL5 skunk one haze.
Like from Delta 9 Labs, they did their Fruit of the Gods and that was an NL5 skunk one
haze.
But that's a perfect example.
So silver pearl times haze would be early pearl NL5 skunk one.
Exactly.
It's really close.
So you just basically described.
You know, and I'm not, I don't, that's just complete speculation on my part due to the
timing of the seeds available, what the plant is telling me.
The fact that the plant is prettier and quicker than most of the other straight NL5 haze F1s.
But it's just a guess.
Yeah, but it's a good guess.
And I think it's fair because you can look at it and see.
If I'm looking at dog shit, it has a lot of resin production for like an NL5 haze.
If it were an NL5 haze, it has really good resin production.
And it goes to the edges and tips of the leaves, even on some of the, not families, but bigger
leaves, water leaves that aren't families.
And I remember Neville telling me that trait specifically was from skunk one.
So we know it has skunk one in it somewhere.
I think based on what Neville said.
So that I think your silver pearl is very, very interesting synopsis.
I mean, yeah.
So you know, could it be?
It could be, you know, I don't know.
It's certainly, like I said, the seed, the seed was available during the time that it
popped up in Minnesota.
You know, there wasn't honestly barely any haze hybrids available on the market then.
I've grown personally a lot of skunk one haze from Sam.
It definitely isn't that.
It's got other things in it, you know.
And so, but you know, it also could be something unknown that turns us on its head, you know.
Yeah, could be.
Oh boy, you know, people ask me about stem rubs.
You know, stem rubs are, there are some turps occasionally that come off stems.
I would put myself in the classification of in-veg.
It's the rare plant that I get much off a stem rub in vegetative growth.
Yeah.
I mean, I can smell stuff, but it rarely does it transfer to flower for it to mean anything
to me other than this plant smells like this in-veg.
I mean, interestingly, I lost it in the fires, but that old tanjo cut I had that was from
the early 80s, you could be carrying a tray of, you know, of one gallon pots or something
and you would get whiffs of citrus even in-veg, but it's pretty rare.
Yeah, I mean, I always tell people like, if you want to smell roadkill skunk, go get like
the poodle nuts cut or even an urkel in-veg, take a cut, sniff it.
I mean, but it doesn't transfer to fucking flower.
Unfortunately, like urkel's great.
It's a very grapey, it has some skunky tones in it, but mostly grapey and sweet.
So yeah, I mean, not everything transfers, unfortunately.
A lot of people like I've seen breeders be like, yeah, this shit fucking reaps in-veg,
it's skunky and it's like, what the fuck does that even mean?
They give you like a sommelier list of smells and aromas and maybe their schnauz is just
a lot better than mine and their brain works on a different level.
But I am always amazed at some of the depth that people can get off of basic stem rub.
I'm not saying it's impossible.
I have had some plants that definitely gave me some terps that were identifiable in-veg.
I'm just saying for me personally, it's more rare.
You know, and so, you know, and it's usually something simple to me like citrus.
It's not like, oh, it smells like leather with hints of raw cherries and a backbone
of coffee.
It's, I don't get a lot of complexity.
It's usually something simple shining through, you know, on that level.
And you know, I never hear is, is I smell chlorophyll.
That's the one thing I definitely smell in-veg when I rub something is a shitload of chlorophyll.
And people are asking me, what do I think about the, you know, I did get a couple of
Caleb's selections from Matt and Caleb's NL5 outgrow that they did when they, you know,
they grew a bunch of plants.
But I, in my part of California, it is extremely hot and nasty, especially this summer.
In summer, and so I was waiting for more opportune weather to give those a shot.
Yeah.
Real quick, I'm going to talk about, we have the riotteeds.com sale right now.
I want to see how many people actually listen to this, buy stuff.
So the coupon code is invisible40.
It's going to work for this weekend, 40% off anybody who uses it.
So if you use it, I'll know you watch the show and you get to save 40%.
And that's pretty cool.
We put up some Red Menace, which is the boba flow hybrid, the blueberry scone, which is
the wedding cake, blue bonnet, the blue cream, which is the, we were talking about silver
pearl tonight.
That's the perfect pearl from hip suite, which is a silver pearl S1 crossed in a blue bonnet.
So all those are up there.
Those haven't been dropped before, I don't think, except for the wedding cake one early
on and invisible40 to get you 40% off.
So enjoy.
There we go.
People keep commenting on my beard.
You know, I do a lot.
I work outside a lot in summer.
And so it helps with SBF.
Yeah.
It helps protect me from aging, you know, faster than I already am.
Yeah, yeah.
I don't know.
It's Hanson to salt and pepper.
I've only got a little bit.
I need some of that.
I don't know about salt and pepper.
It's getting a little whiter on that level.
Yeah.
A little more salt, a little less pepper.
A little more salt, a little less pepper, you know?
But yeah, you know, you know, they, we'll see, you know, I think Matt and Caleb, they're
going to do, they're going to do some further work with that NL5, you know, line, hybrid,
whatever it might be, picking out phenos that they like and seeing what's going on.
So we have, we have some really big projects coming up.
Not just me with CSI, but the whole group.
So there's a few things we'll be able to talk about soon, but I'm really fucking stoked.
We got some big collaborations coming up with CSI on many levels.
So yeah.
I mean, the homie, what's good about the homie is that he not only does he do stuff that
interests him in terms of what he thinks might be like, you know, modern cultivars and stuff
like that and modern hybrids, but he also does reproduction of old seed stock.
He's very willing to take dubious seeds with a story and run a bunch of them and see, you
know, he'll let the seeds, he'll let the plants tell him what he thinks of it later on.
Yeah.
You know, because sometimes good seed stock comes from scandalous characters, you know,
and all that.
And so, you know, he does fem seeds, regular seeds, experimental projects, that type of
thing.
And so, you know, in a land of like, let's smash together all the most popular cuts today,
doing some of that other kind of work that doesn't really, you know, might not fly off
the shelves as fast, but it's still valuable is really, is really important.
One I was he was telling me about the other day, and I was like, because I always give
him shit, like, he'll make stuff, and he'll put it on his site sometimes, and not announce
it anywhere.
Not a fucking word.
He'll be like, yeah, no one was really interested in that.
I'm like, bro, did you even tell anyone?
Did you tell them?
I didn't know that you put it out.
He was talking about a Mendo perps cross to, I think it was a Blackberry Widow from Jojo
Rizzo.
And it was, it was Elks, I think it was Elkslayer who made it originally.
And Caleb took it to F3.
And if people remember Blackberry Widow, it's very magenta, red, pretty.
And Mendo perps can spit that too.
And he bred this in that red direction.
He's got an F3 seed run that he did ages ago, like eight years ago.
It's just been kept in the freezer, you know, and still got perfect germ rates, but he never
really sold them.
You know, things like that blow my mind.
Even multi-stage breeding of any kind in today's economic environment is rare.
Yeah, very.
So it should be supported.
Because like most breeding projects, you don't get what you want in one step.
Yeah.
Buckshot.
I find life was doing great in Bakersfield heat outdoors too.
It was, it was doing really well, shockingly, because we were getting up into the 118s,
120s this year.
60 days of over 100.
We had, California had one of the worst heat waves in modern memory.
Just this last, in the, you know, after Labor Day, which was really unfortunate.
You know, it took my, a lot of my friends told me up in Mendo and stuff like that, that
they don't think their wheat is as nice.
Oh, I believe it because of the heat wave?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, that's weird because when some of the breeders saying that the more heat, the more
skunky it is, I believe so.
That's funny.
You know, I mean, I, you know, there, I, when it gets to that extreme heat, it's just damaging.
Nothing's happy.
You know, you don't want to be 115, 118 and then 80 or 90 degrees at night, you know?
Yeah.
That's just not going to make anything happy.
And I do think that like, one of the things that makes Mendo and Southern Humboldt, Trinity
and things like that, one of the really nice places to grow outdoor cannabis is that you
get a nice cool stretch at night.
It might be a hundred degrees in the daytime, but it gets into the 50s at night.
And that temperature differential, I think brings out the crystal content, the turps,
some of the development.
I think that makes, like, I always noticed that like people like Grass Valley or people
that were more inland in California, they would get these ginormous plants from the
same strains, but I didn't think they were quite as, people from there are probably going
to get mad at me, but I didn't think that they developed, I didn't think that their
region developed.
It's fair.
You know, I just think that, you know, if it hits 55 or 60 degrees at night or 48 or
something like that, it brings out something in the cannabis that if it only gets down
to the 80s, it doesn't.
Yeah.
I keep thinking that.
You know?
And I think too, it's like those cold snaps, you know, it gives the plant, it's just like
humans.
Like they say that like one of the biggest dangers with heat waves is when it gets really
warm at night, your body doesn't have a chance to recover from the day.
Yeah.
And so one of the biggest dangers is extremely warm nights for humans.
And I think the same thing could be true for cannabis.
Like the cool nights gives the plant an ability to recover from a really hot day.
Yeah.
And if it's 88 degrees at 11 o'clock at night, boy.
Yeah.
There were many nights here where it wouldn't get under 100 all night.
It was fucking unreal.
Yeah.
So, you know, so from multiple friends have told me that they did not think that, they
don't think their plants are quite as, which sucks for the current market and the current
economics of things.
But it was a poorly timed heat wave.
Yeah.
It was unusually late, you know?
Unusually brutal.
Yeah.
Unusually brutal, for sure.
So yeah, I don't know.
But you know, there's an aspect of, that's one of the things about climate change, if
you were, that is really interesting in the sense that a lot of times, not just in cannabis,
but in other agriculture, you pick spots that tend to suit what you're doing.
Yeah.
And if the climate shifts, it might not, it might not suit what you're doing as much.
Yeah.
You know, as an indoor grower, I didn't really take into account how much the weather in
Bakersfield would affect even indoor growing.
Like it's, when it gets to a certain point, it's so brutal that it does affect indoor
growing even, you know, like trying to keep the house cool while you're running fucking
X amount of lights.
It's gnarly.
It's gnarly when it gets that hot.
There's an old ass term that we used to use in the height of the indoor days, summer bud.
Yeah.
Summer bud was not as nice.
Yeah.
And you know, as a lot of other types.
And honestly, like I, you know, where I live in Mendo, like granted, I get to use the outside,
which is nice, but a lot of people would shut down in summer.
Yeah.
Because they wouldn't grow as nice herb.
Yeah.
And back in the day, you could get away with like a little bit lesser indoor.
But right now the market is just ugly.
So you know, summer run bud can be, you know, there's a, I don't even know what to talk
about when it comes to the market.
It's ever changing and very painful and has a bunch of people very nervous.
And you know, so.
Yeah.
I think we've delved into that depressive fucking talk enough.
Yeah.
I mean, I'm sure everybody's feeling that, that is deeply involved in the weed scene
where it's not just a hobby.
Even people that it's just a hobby.
Look at the electric bills.
Look at it.
Look at how everything's going, especially in California.
Even hobby growers are starting to not be able to afford to grow.
Yeah.
I mean, California, sadly, you know, its power is just through the roof.
Yeah.
You know, so even just keeping yourself cool, like the human part of your family cool, can
be a lot of money.
Yeah.
My mom will live in like 100 degree weather inside her house because she's an old miser.
But if she hears this, sorry, mom.
But her electric bill this last month was like $600, which was outrageous for her.
She's never had anything even that fucking close because she will live and eat without
any kind of AC just because she's cheap.
And that blew her fucking mind, the $600 electric bill hit her.
So I would imagine everybody's having a rough time with that.
Yeah.
And then obviously, like, you know, in California, especially PG&E got made liable for a number
of these incredible fires.
They passed the buck.
And so, yeah, I mean, they, you know, what are they going to do, declare bankruptcy and
go out of business and you don't have power?
Yeah.
No, it's a monopoly too.
Is there a reason we're allowed to have a monopoly for an electric company?
It's not necessarily a monopoly because I don't, you don't have PG&E down there, do
you?
Yes.
It's all, the only thing we have.
The only thing you have is PG&E.
Interesting.
It's the only option.
It's the only option.
I mean, it's hard to have a bunch of competition because who owns all the transmission lines?
Yeah.
Who's responsible for maintaining all the poles and all the power and all the this and
all that?
It's not something like you can just be like, oh, well, T-Mobile versus AT&T versus this
versus that.
It's a little, there's a lot of infrastructure involved.
Yeah.
The water companies here are the same way.
You don't have a choice on that.
You don't have a choice on garbage and you don't have a choice on electric company.
You know, so it's, you know, I mean when, you know, when I first moved to Mendo, all
the, all the diesel grows in the woods or whatever, you know, diesel was a dollar.
Yeah.
Now it's super expensive.
Yeah.
You know, before, you know, I, this is going to date me, but like before I was, I had an
eight lighter before, um, before the Enron fake scandal.
Yeah.
2000, 2001 where they, they lied about how much, like that California had a power crisis.
Oh, that, that shit.
Yeah.
And you know, my eight lighter was never more than 350 bucks a month.
Yeah.
And then they raised the rates right after that and it was 12 to 1500 a month.
Yeah.
Crazily.
Yep.
Um, and so there's a great documentary on that called Enron, the smartest guys in the
room.
If anybody wants to watch anything on it, it's, it explains it in detail how, how, uh,
they played, they played us in California.
And they actually got us to lock into super longterm, extremely high power rates because
the governor was worried there was going to get even worse.
Yep.
And even though they went down for fraud and a bunch of the, a bunch of the top executives
did long prison terms, we petitioned the federal government to break the contracts because
they were signed with a company fraudulently cheating California and the Bush administration
didn't let us out of the, didn't let us out of it.
Shocking.
So, um, it's just been, it's been, unfortunately for California, uh, growing indoor, um, has
been increasingly expensive.
Yeah, definitely prohibitively expensive, prohibitively expensive.
And the, you know, sadly the, you know, the price of indoor is also, is not heading in,
it's not like going up with the cost of doing business.
Yeah, no, it's crazy.
It's only fraud.
So, um, it's really pinched a lot of people, unfortunately, you know, in that regard.
So, um, yeah, I mean it, uh, um, there are certain places, like, I think there's certain
places in, in like in, in Trinity and there's other areas that tie into like hydroelectric
power, right?
Where the power is a lot cheaper, but everywhere that people like to live in California for
the most part, like is expensive.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Even, like I said, Bakersfield used to be like one of the last cheap little bastions
for, for cheapness in California to be able to afford a home, but that's done.
That's long gone now.
So yeah, being poor doesn't really work in California too well anymore.
A fork.
Um, you know, Trinity, the problem with Trinity is just, it's like, you might as well live
Swiss family Robinson, you know, it's remote.
Is it?
I've never been up there.
Yeah.
Yeah.
My buddy was just Siskiyou County has Southern Oregon power and it's cheaper.
There's some hydroelectric that comes out of Oregon.
So there's certain counties in far Northern California that have way, way nicer power
than, um, any of the population centers where most of us live.
I actually want to ring rings on for a show.
I think it'd be awesome.
Awesome.
Both of you two shooting the shit.
Yeah.
If I could convince him he would be good one day.
He's a super weed nerd.
He's been breeding for a long time.
He has his own take on weed.
I'll do it.
He's pretty, he's pretty sarcastic.
Yeah, he is.
You know, him and I have done a number of different projects together and we have a
lot of similarities in terms of like our approach to things and stuff.
So yeah.
You know, yeah.
It's, um, you know, there's not, um, there's not, you know, there's, uh, you know, people
that, that crack seeds every year and grow different seeds every year outside and do
breeding projects every year.
That's, I don't want to call them a dying breed necessarily, but they're rarer than
they used to be.
Definitely.
Did I tell you I'm doing a new UFO podcast Tuesday?
You did not.
I am going to do it with my friend Nick.
It's called Invisible Residents and Tuesday we're going to have our first recording of
us talking for the first time, like trying to figure it out.
So yes, I didn't know if you'd want to do it, but I know UFOs aren't necessarily your
thing, but yeah, we're going to give it a go and see if anybody gives a shit, but it
will be interesting, especially from a skeptical point of view on UFOs.
I bet.
Yeah.
He, um, I will say one thing about my buddy Rings is that he comes up with a series of
very inappropriate seed line names and hashish names.
That sounds familiar.
He does.
I would actually have to say that he might, he might have the most inappropriate that
I'm aware of.
Yeah, really?
Which one is it?
Can you, can you say this name?
Can I say it?
Can I, can I pump him out?
Sure.
Do, uh, uh, he has one called, uh, Your Sister's Innocence.
Yep.
Um, I love it.
There's another one called Butt Stuff.
Yeah.
Butt Stuff's a great one.
That's how me and him first started talking.
If you cross Butt Stuff to Your Sister's Innocence, you really start getting places.
Sure do.
He had a, he had a hashish line for a minute that you remember Heaven's Gate?
Yes.
Because those, that's probably right up your alley with all the UFO weirdos.
So yeah, remember how they all had like the Adidas suits and like the shoes?
Yeah, the Nike shoes.
Right?
So there, he had this image of like two Nike shoes pointing up and then the Adidas jump
shoot and it ends at the knees and then like a, and then like a spaceship, you know?
The clubs had a hard time promoting the, uh, the Heaven's Gate, uh, the, yeah, the Heaven's
Gate hashish line.
It was, uh, it was a little too risque, perhaps a little too, uh, a little too morbid.
The humor was so black, it was ultraviolet.
Yes.
Yeah.
That's rings.
Humor, humor is so black, it's ultraviolet.
Yeah.
And then there's, and then there's ones that are, um, that are worse than that, that didn't
even make the public cut.
So.
Oh, wow.
Yeah.
I love it.
You know, but yeah, I would, I would have to say there's other ones, there's other ones
I won't say, but one of my favorite is yours.
I mean, how do you get more Your Sister's Innocence, you know?
Oh, that's too good.
That's too good.
Um, you know, but I mean, he's, he's, he's actually been in Mendo longer than I have.
Um, I moved here in 98, he moved here in like 94.
Yeah.
Which is definitely a different time.
And so he's been here through a lot of different eras.
And we have been talking a bunch actually about how, you know, we watched an enormous
amount of people pour into our community.
Yeah.
As the green rush happened.
And now that the prices crashed, we're watching all these people pour out.
Mass exodus.
Yeah.
Yeah, there was a lot of people that came here for different reasons, a lot of money.
And as that has gotten tighter, they fled.
Maybe I need to move up now when it's, when the getting's good and everybody's gone.
Yeah, I mean, it's, it's where can I find Your Sister's Innocence?
You know, Your Sister's Innocence is a fleeting thing.
It's only there for so long.
And then once it's gone, it's gone, you know, it's gone.
It's pretty hard to get it back.
You know, once it's gone, it's gone.
You know, it's a brief period of time.
Yeah, you know, it's a brief period of time.
So, but yeah, but you know, Mendo, Mendo is probably going to go back to somewhat depopulated
and weird.
Yeah.
Because there was a lot of rich kids that moved up here and faked being hippies or whatever
in order to grow weed and have spending money.
And there was a lot of people that moved here for different reasons.
There's a lot of people that came up here and bought property and grew for a few years
and then farmed it out to friends and went and lived in the Bay or went and lived in
LA or went in Santa Rosa or whatever.
And, you know, got in there just like, you know, took a skim off the lifestyle to do
whatever they wanted.
Yeah.
And the economics of that are all trashed.
So it's very likely that in the next four or five years, a lot of mountain properties
are going to start popping up.
Probably mountain properties that are reasonably set up too, you know?
Yeah.
In that regard.
So.
Makes sense.
You know, and, you know, Mendoz still remains one of the better places to grow weed.
Yeah.
It's just a matter about, you know, survival and whether or not you like to live in the
country.
Whether or not you like to turn up in weird fields with your soul missing.
Your soul missing.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, no, that's, that's, that's, what was that show called?
Murder Mountain.
That's humble, isn't it?
That's humble.
Yeah.
And that's, that's, that's obviously, it's exaggerated to some degree.
Of course.
But it's also true.
No, but it actually, it's also true.
The area that they're talking about is this place called Alder Point Road outside of Garboville.
Yeah.
And one of the things that made Alder Point Road pretty famous is that there's a lot of
places in Humboldt and Mendoz that are big parcels, say like 40, 80, 160.
That's kind of how they got divvied up legally.
Yeah.
And Alder Point Road had a bunch of, you know, four acre, six acre, 10 acre, 12 acre.
Right.
So it meant a lot of weirdos got more tightly packed together.
Yeah.
And it was a cheap place to land in Humboldt, blow it up for a bit, and then try to get
out somewhere better.
Yeah.
You know, so you get a bunch of weirdos all on top of each other, living too close to
each other.
If you're all on, if you're, if you, if you've got a bunch of 160 acre parcels or a bunch
of 80 acre parcels, you have some distance from people.
Yeah.
If you have a bunch of three acre, six acre, four acre, eight acre little parcels, then
you're all kind of stacked up on one another.
Yeah.
And then, you know, there's more interaction.
There's more weirdos.
Yeah, definitely.
The Heels, them heel weirdos.
So, so have you confirmed with your, your buddy, Tom Hill, if he's going to do the show
or not?
You know, speaking of Hill weirdos, I don't think it would be insulting.
We are hopeful.
We are hopeful to soon have Tom Hill on the show.
I don't think it's going to be live.
It won't be live.
It'll only be audio.
He's probably only going to be audio.
I'm probably going to have to go, honestly, visit him.
Yeah.
At his spot.
But he has lived on one of the most notorious areas in Mendocino County since the mid 80s.
Yeah.
And so that in itself is an enormous load of stories.
He's got an immense amount of weed history in there.
And then how he sort of got famous outside of Mendo and our little circles is he became
active on the forums in the early days.
And Matt can speak to this too.
You know, but he was along with Vic High and a number of other people.
He was kind of a giant on the early forums in a way.
He created Tom Hill's Haze.
He's credited with Deep Chunk, which some people.
X18.
Huh?
X18, PTK.
Yeah.
All kinds of shit.
He's been around a lot of the old school growing families and a lot of the old school
growing techniques.
He's seen all the different eras from the camp and the 80s into the 90s into 215.
You know, Deep Chunk.
I didn't actually hear it called Deep Chunk because in Mendo we called it Monkey Balls.
Yeah.
Some people called it Deep Chunk.
Some people called it Hindu Death Cabbage.
It had a number of different names, but it probably is the closest thing to an actual.
Like I see a lot of times the chemist is different, but the chemist is also still alive.
And someone that Tom could speak on extensively.
So I'm actually really excited to maybe chat with him.
And he's definitely a little bit reclusive.
But we're hopeful to be able to do sort of like a private recorded thing that we could put up.
Yeah.
And he is to both Matt and myself, I would say he's sort of an elder, a hero.
Someone that both of us looked up to while we were learning how to breed.
I still do.
I mean, he talks shit with the best of them too.
Like I remember growing up reading his shit talk, like the shit he would say.
I'd be like, damn, I want to be like that dude.
He doesn't fucking take no shit.
No, he was pretty famous for being caustic online.
And on one of the lives, I called him a cantankerous old man.
And he reached out to me to say that he's mellowed, which is pretty funny.
But I think very highly of him.
And he's really, he's like people throw this term around lightly,
or too lightly in my opinion, but Tom is a legitimate cannabis OG.
Yeah, I agree.
He has created a bunch of really cool lines.
He's been around for an enormous amount of history.
He's a super character.
He was important in the forums.
A lot of people have bred with his work.
He's a badass.
So every serious breeder I know has been inspired by Tom Hill in some way, in his work.
Every serious breeder I know.
Yeah, he's an elder.
He at this point, he's an elder in the breeding community.
And his work speaks for itself.
And he, I'm not going to name where it is, but with some of the areas that he's lived
in for a long time, are what I consider to be the beating heart of the Mendocino cannabis scene
from way back in the day.
So it would be super cool.
And everybody that's listening tonight, you know, hopefully,
um, he's someone to listen to.
He's someone to look up to.
And it's not easy to be a cannabis lifer.
No, no, no, no.
It is not.
And not in coming from his era, too.
Like I say, I say this all the time.
Like, it was, it was just as dangerous back then to deal weed as it was anything else.
So a lot of people had to fuck with a lot of stuff.
And it was a different time, you know, different kinds of characters were involved.
So what's cool about that perhaps is that the, I don't know, I can't predict exactly
where the conversation will go.
I'm supposed to go up there and barbecue with him perhaps.
And maybe I'll, you know, have a wide ranging conversation, but it could, you could, you,
he could talk extensively just about the history of where he's at.
He could talk extensively about a bunch of his own breeding.
He could talk extensively about the strains and the type of things that were around in
the various eras.
There's a lot of different directions.
You could probably have a series of talks with him about certain subjects and really
get some places.
So hopefully it happens soon.
He's expressed interest.
He likes what Matt and I are doing, which is extremely humbling.
You know, I generally didn't even think he knew who the fuck I was.
That's, that's where it's at, you know, like different era, different everything.
So yeah, it was cool.
Yeah, super cool.
You know, so we'll see.
I can't predict when or how soon or whatever, but there's been some interest.
And so when that shit happens, people should really listen because, you know, he's been
in it to win it for a long time.
And he does have another interview out.
So I think it's coming out soon.
So definitely keep your ears peeled for that.
Check it out.
Yeah, he does.
He does.
And regardless of what platform it's on, he's worth listening to.
Absolutely.
We're both, you know, I don't actually listen to a lot of other weed podcasts because they
kind of drive me nuts.
But I will be listening to that one because of who he is.
Yeah, I'm going to listen to the podcast for that one.
I'll even give it the plug.
Yeah, I mean, I might even listen to the fucking Gypsy one.
But I wouldn't go that far.
Yeah, I don't have any interest in hearing fucking stuff.
I'm just curious what spin he spins.
Yeah, I mean, you know, I wouldn't interview that guy.
Even though he's a, you know, but I'm curious.
I am a little bit curious.
But you know, we'll see.
I doubt that that guy will ask him the right questions.
Yeah.
I mean, you can only, that's the thing though.
Like if you're new to breeding, what are you going to ask Tom Hill?
What would you know to ask him?
What forums are left for you to peruse to go look?
You know what I mean?
Like it's hard.
It's a hard thing to do.
So it'll be different.
But I'm excited either way.
I've been trying to research the chemist for many years.
And I've gotten like absolutely fucking nowhere.
Except for like little hints of people who met him once and like said, you know, x, y, z.
But I can say I'm very interested in that.
I can say this.
The chemist is alive.
Yeah, he's in his 70s.
And I thought he was not with us.
I'll leave it at that.
Someone just asked.
He did not create Urkel.
But, you know, Tom has his view of how Urkel happened.
And it's an interesting one.
So if I get a chance to go and hang out and we get a chance to talk, that will probably
be on the list because it's probably something that people would be interesting in hearing.
And to our good friends listening right now, keep your calendar clear for December at the
Emerald Ball.
It sounds like we may be doing another Canilluminati thing, which is probably going to be a big
thing, which is private.
It'll probably be small.
But for our very good friends who go every year and listen to this, keep your calendars
clear.
Yeah, we we were met Matt and I and some other close friends of ours.
We kind of threw a party for a few years for weed enthusiasts, breeders, heads, various
things like that.
It was pretty successful.
It was a really nice time for people to get together and smoke a bunch of weed and shoot
the shit in person.
It got fucked by COVID for a number of years.
But now that it seems like that's receding and times are a little different, we're going
to try to bring it back.
And so that means I got to get on, you know, having some samples.
Yeah, get your shit ready, son.
Yeah, so yeah, you know.
So yeah, I mean, people can reach out about that one.
I mean, I'm not sure we're not trying to get inundated.
And if you're not a close friend that hasn't gone to one, it's probably going to be smaller
than the last ones, even so even people that went to the last one probably won't be heading
to this one.
But but there you know, there's it's it's who knows?
It's not the the the size and who's coming and all that and everything like that.
Not to leave anybody out.
But like we it's we're hoping it's going to happen.
Yes.
So sounds like it.
That's the plans.
You know, maybe we can even do some content from not like live, but maybe we could even
like, you know,
Oh, yeah, we should do that year, but we had too much fun.
Yeah, we had it was it was it was it was it would be hard to it's it's it's cool to not
have to think there.
Yeah, in that regard, just to be able to hang out and chill and
any info on what cut of sour I have?
My god, I don't know, dude.
I have a lot of people that want to confidently tell me stories about my headband and my sour
and what they think it is.
But, you know, I just think that there's people that want to like have certainty where there's
uncertainty.
Yeah.
In my opinion, it's hard, you know, and with the recent batch of popularity with sour and
headbands, everyone wants to fill in the blanks on a bunch of different stuff, you know.
So, you know, we'll have to see how that goes.
What are your train wreck experiences?
I was just looking at my list here.
Your my train wreck experiences?
Yeah, yeah.
Since you were I mean, you're up in that region.
Did you have any train wreck experiences?
What I what I'll say what's interesting about train wreck is that the first public thing
I did as fucking not so I guess was I showed my face because Caleb had a cannabis event.
That he threw and he asked me to be on the panel.
And so I was up there with him and, you know, a number of different people, Kevin Jodery,
you know, just various folks.
And one of the interesting things that he mentioned was that because humble was such
a seed based place.
Train wreck was one of the first named cuts up there that became popular.
Yeah.
Right.
And one of the things that became popular about it was that it was frosty.
It yielded a ton.
And indoors, it made people a bunch of money.
Yeah.
And no one bitched about the potency either on it.
It was before it was basically before Jack Herrera.
Like, I don't know about before Jack Herrera, but it was before Jack Herrera was common
enough that people called things Jack like when people say Jack Herrera.
When people say Jack Terps, previously it was train wreck Terps.
Yes.
Even though they didn't use train wreck Terp back then, but they called it that train wreck
nose.
If you will.
Yeah.
It was train wreck was probably one of the first super popular cuts in Northern California
that had that strong terpenelein nose.
And there's a lot of mystery to it, too.
It does not seem that there seems to be a number of different train wreck cuts that float around.
Yeah.
There seems to be debate on who had what train wreck when our buddy Pac is doing has been
doing some stuff with some old school train wreck.
You know, he's made some killer crosses.
There's the GMO Mac.
He's done some new school crosses like the GMO Mac stuff, but he's also like that Blue
Dream train wreck one is fucking stellar.
Like it was it's hard to find the old SC cut of Blue Dream like a lot of people.
Some people said the arcade at E32 E32 was a reference to like they thought it was like
32.
Jim, I mean, there was there was just a bunch of different rumors about train wreck.
Train wreck is an interesting one.
And then it's a little bit like Urkel in the sense that despite its fame, it doesn't have
a clear storyline.
Yeah.
To me.
Yeah.
You know, I agree.
Yeah.
And I think CSI said the same because I've definitely picked his brain on it as one of
my favorite old, old, old school California strings.
I picked his brain on it quite a bit.
Yeah, some people some people are like, dude, that shit's too strong to racy to speedy.
And for me, it's one of the ones that gives me anti anxiety high.
It's fucking weird.
And then people are asking various things about sour.
I don't know.
I don't actually like, you know, I've known JJ a long time.
I don't know what sour he has.
Yeah.
I think JJ mostly breeds for seed.
I haven't smoked any of JJ's actual flower from any of his clones he uses in a long time.
So I can't I can't really comment on that, you know?
You know, yeah.
And you know, there's aspects of it.
Just saying saw a couple people saying they made crosses with my cuts.
That's nice in the sense that it appears that the podcast that Matt and I are doing is
gaining popularity a bit, you know, that people are saying that they're using my cut,
even though I have no idea who they are.
And so they didn't get it from me.
But they're pretty sure they must have what I have.
And then I'm not obviously selling any clones or anything like that or selling any seeds right now.
So it's people are jumping into the people seem to be jumping into the name game, unfortunately.
Yeah, which irritates the piss out of Matt, but
and then someone just asked any info on original diesel.
Original diesel, in my opinion, is a very misleading term.
There's an original diesel out there that a guy has, it'll remain nameless,
that basically just it was the first diesel he got.
So he called it original.
Matt has a nice that I have it actually.
Matt has a nice cut of original diesel.
Also called Daywrecker, which it may not even be the original cut called Daywrecker.
Also called Daywrecker may not even be the original cut called Daywrecker.
And there's a lot, you know, and diesel also in, you know,
I have some good buddies from New York and diesel in the mid 90s was slang for fireweed.
Yeah.
And then don't forget Archives uses his original diesel, which is the shroomy diesel, the Amish.
And also referred to as original diesel.
I think his actually probably came before the Daywrecker as far as any kind of provenance
any kind of provenance goes or providence goes on that.
I actually don't think that Jack is renamed trainwreck.
No, no.
No, I don't.
I disagree.
I do think they very strongly have a similar terpene profile.
But the bud structure, the high, the way they look, the way they grow,
there's significant differences there.
You know.
Someone asked me to list the new stuff on the site.
We have the trainwreck Trinity blue bonnet.
I think we call that copperberry because it has a lot of coppery terps.
We put up some more of the pure cush blue bonnet.
The blue bonnet BX1.
I found some more of the triangle choke, which we never sold.
We gave a bunch away, which is the diesel.
I'm sorry, triangle diesel blue bonnet.
And then the ones I named earlier.
So rewatch the episode.
Some I still have to add.
And there's some Hawaiian light specific directional open pollination breedings,
meaning me and Caleb's select cuts hit by all the males.
We isolated some of that from the open pollination just to keep those separate.
And I'll have some of those up too.
And there's a bunch of stuff that people, man, there's a lot of comments coming fast and furious.
People just asked, how do you get rid of variegation on the chem and headband crosses?
Sometimes you can't, depending on the cross, I suppose.
But chems and headbands tend to be very heavy feeders.
And they tend to be heavy calcium feeders too.
So you could try that.
But when I say calcium, I don't mean CalMag.
A lot of times they don't need nearly as much magnesium as they need calcium.
So if you're going to try, try to give it more calcium and try to get a product that
does not have a bunch of mag as well.
Because you can overload.
I got a question for you.
What is your definition of a headband?
Like when you think of a headband traditionally, I know there's the Canada Bible definition or
whatever, that it was like a Northern Lights hybrid of some sort.
But when you think of headband, what's the first thing that comes to mind, scent-wise
or maybe high-wise or expression-wise?
I mean, not that this might not be fair or accurate, but when I think of headband,
I think of the first cut I got as headband, which is my LA.
I think of a diesel-type plant.
I think of a skunky-type plant.
And it turns out now that Manny and Swell and Bondo and others have been talking more,
it does seem like the very first cut that was called headband was the plant that the
seeds of the first sour diesel were found in.
Interesting.
And they all claim that that's the case, that they had a cut they called Diesel 2.
And there was a friend of theirs in New York that called it headband.
And one of their friends, Manny, found some seeds in that Diesel 2 headband, and out of
those seeds came the first sour diesel.
There's a bunch of other headbands.
There's a couple, Lumpa's headband and the 56 Day, which we both consider to be like
renamed Cush's.
And then there's Day Wrecker, and there's other things that have all kind of...
Headband was one of those ones that the story wasn't well known for a long time, so it
allowed a lot of people to claim the name.
And there's probably about four or five different cuts that all claim to be original New York
City headband.
And some of those have been discounted by the people that had headband, which people
probably don't like.
Yeah, yeah, sure.
People talking about, yes, Jack is...
I wouldn't say Jack is an unworked Super Silver Haze.
I would say that Jack is a stop along the way of that breeding project.
And Neville didn't feel it was done, and so he reworked it for a bit.
And Super Silver Haze, and Mango Haze for that matter, came out of that later breeding
project.
Yeah.
And then people are talking about Sours and Karma Sour and Rez Sour.
According to them alone or whatever, Rez got his Sour from Chemdog, I think in 07 or 06
or something like that.
Yeah, I see people quoting fucking Klopp and stuff.
You can't take that to the bank.
There are podcasts he's done.
One was almost a week after the other that completely conflicted with everything he's
ever said about Sour.
I don't think it's up anymore, but it was for years.
So you really have to be careful what you're taking in as info and immediately repeating
as facts, because there's been a lot of research done on that shit.
Somebody just asked if I wear glasses.
I do wear glasses, but I'm nearsighted, so I can't read the comments if I have them on.
Yeah.
So that's why maybe I see people saying, oh, you're wearing glasses.
Maybe I sit a little close and you might see me staring or whatever.
Someone just asked about the Cal 106 that Slow Nickel is pushing.
I've never tried it yet, but I did pump him as far as being an agronomist and helping
with some of the cloning techniques.
People seem to be really liking it.
There's a product by a good friend of mine who owns Cutting Edge that's called Plant
Amp that's calcium chloride, and it's organic.
Calcium separated from magnesium, in my opinion, is a better option for most plants than Cal
Mag.
Most Cal Mag is created from calcium nitrate, which I don't like as much as calcium carbonate
or calcium carbonate.
The cannabis seems to need a lot more calcium than it needs magnesium.
So overdosing it hard enough with calcium can overdose it in magnesium.
And so I like those two products separated, ideally.
In fact, maybe I should nerd out for a second and say that when they were doing nutrients
and they were doing NPK, it's like the three macro elements, scientists considered calcium
so important they actually considered it making a top four.
Yeah.
So calcium missed out being up there with nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium as they
decided to make it a micronutrient, but they made it a sort of a macro micro.
It's probably the most important of the micronutrients in terms of how much plants like.
I think it's boron.
As far as what plants like, I think one of the most important ones is boron.
I can't remember why, but I remember hearing that, so I'm just going to throw it in there.
I mean, all of them are important.
And if they're not present in sufficient quantities, the plant needs all of them.
Yes.
Boron in small amounts is incredibly important, but in large amounts, it toxifies things and
makes it less important.
Of course.
Anything does that.
Actually, in my neck of the woods in Mendo, there's regions of Mendo that have excessive
boron in the water.
And a lot of people would have a great first year, an okay second year, and a horrible
third year and end up trying to filter boron out of their mix really badly because it persists.
Yeah.
Hey, before you get going on anything else, do you know much about power flower?
Yeah.
Talk a little bit about that because it used to be a staple up there.
And I know a lot of people used it and had some of their best harvest with it.
And then all of a sudden it was gone and why it was gone.
I love power flower.
I wish it still existed.
Power flower was a, it came in a brown bag.
It was designed to be gorilla style.
So you could plant directly in the bag.
You could throw the bag on the ground and make an X and plant your plant in it and poke
some holes, right?
Yeah.
Or you could put it into beds or put it into pots or whatever, obviously.
It had enough food in it for about three months.
So in that era, when you were doing gorilla and stuff like that, and you're just wanting
to water your plant.
But really what made power flower special was that they were digging some of the mix
of it came out of this ancient bog.
Yeah.
A peat bog?
Yeah, there was a peat bog.
And that peat bog, long ago when there was basically like, you know, people weren't brewing
teas very much back then.
There wasn't any of these like biological fungal bacterial products on the market.
Like there's a plethora of now.
And so that ancient biology really tended to eat the organic food contained within power
flower.
And it made it a lot more available than other mixes.
Yeah.
And eventually they dug, they had issues with the state and local and this and that.
They dug out the bog too much.
And it was sort of a, it was environmental shit.
Yeah, it just wasn't what it was anymore.
It was a snapshot in time.
You know, the green rush that people started using it.
People got really popular.
People started using it more and more.
They started selling more and more of it.
That led to more peat, that led to more use and that led to the state getting involved.
And then eventually that bog ran out.
Yeah.
The reason I bring it up is because when I was talking to CSI last, he had mentioned
that the best sour grow he's ever smoked.
Because he's not a sour fan.
He always talks about it.
But he also says that some of the best weed he's ever smoked was sour.
Yeah.
He has terrible taste in the weed.
Yeah.
Fuck his taste.
All my favorites.
He's like, yeah, I like it.
I breed with it.
Yeah.
On this one, he said Shabud grew the best sour he's ever grown.
But he would use flower power.
And he said he's never seen lemon and stuff like that come out of sour before in these
grows because he just never was able to get flower power again and grow with it.
He also said it was an amazing product.
I will say that the diesel family in general is very sensitive to environmental factors,
everything from soil to nutrient to whatever else.
You can grow sour diesel in living soil or whatever and have it come out very sweet.
Yeah.
Getting it to actually be sour, getting it to actually be skunky is kind of complex.
The diesel plants can come out, like they're usually good.
And the high is usually there.
But the flavor profiles and all that and how they grow and how the buds form, they're very
sensitive.
Oh, go ahead.
No, they're very sensitive.
I was talking to someone about this today, and I've started taking to calling them diesels
instead of sours.
And that's only because I've noticed that a lot of people still that haven't grown like
old sour cuts that aren't familiar with sour still think of like the citric acid warhead
type thing and apply that to what they expect when they smoke a sour.
Because people talk about a mouth coating thing with sour, and we know what that is,
having smoked sour.
But when people think about that, and then they think of the word sour mouth coat, and
then the citric acid type sourness comes to mind.
I've noticed a lot of people look for that in their what they think would be sours, and
that's not necessarily what the name means.
And sour is one of those things where I'm not going to sit here and call anybody a liar
or anything like that.
Because I wasn't there, so who am I to say that?
But it does seem like of the people involved, there's a couple of different stories, and
you kind of end up having to choose who you want to believe.
And there's some certainty about certain things, but it does seem like it was a multi-stage
accident, for lack of a better way to put it.
And then it became so famous that there's some people that wanted to put a little bit
more certainty onto that.
And so I—
Well, shit sounds better if you intended to do it.
It makes you sound cooler if you meant to do shit.
Yeah.
And so I don't—but diesel in general, diesel cuts, headband cuts, that whole family, it's
one of my favorite families, it's some of my favorite smoke.
They are highly variable.
Most of them are pretty good, which is nice.
But they are—and especially right now with the resurgence in popularity, there's a lot
of false stories being told, and a lot of very certain tales.
Yeah.
And I mean, I'll probably say this and regret it or whatever, but there's a lot of people
that are like, oh, my sour traces all the way back to 95.
Yeah.
But then according to the sour people, the sour was actually found in the spring of 96.
Yeah.
That would make it hard.
So it's—so some people sour predates real sour by almost a year.
And that's why the term pre-pre was born.
Oh, yeah, the pre-pre, you know, it's like, what's the earliest I can do it?
Let's go six months earlier.
I know a guy.
Yeah.
You know?
And I—people are talking about various things.
I don't use this term very much.
I really dislike IBL in cannabis.
If you see the term IBL in cannabis, you should be extremely suspicious.
IBL is—the only thing that I could even think that I would consider to be close to
an IBL is Tom Hill's Deep Chunk.
Same.
Yeah.
You see sour diesel IBL, I shit on that.
Yeah.
No, that's a joke.
I mean, even Rez would be like, hey, here's my sour D IBL.
Here's all the phenos you can get.
No.
Right under it.
No.
I mean, you know, you can think about inbred line and it's like, oh, I inbred it a couple
generations.
It's an IBL.
An actual IBL has almost no—it doesn't have phenos.
Yeah, it doesn't have phenotypical—
It is a pheno, basically.
It has a very, very, very narrow band of expressions.
So I don't even like IBLs because there's nowhere to go.
You get what you get.
Yes.
You know, weasel couldn't have had it before 96.
No.
So there's—I don't really want to get into the whole sour story because it's extremely
long.
And we have an episode on it.
And we have various things on it and all that.
But very quickly, there was, you know, there was weed that was being bought.
There was bag seeds found out of that weed.
There was a couple plants that were called Diesel 1 and Diesel 2 that were grown out
of those bag seeds.
Something hermed onto the Diesel 2.
They sold some weed of Diesel 2 to Manny.
Manny found some seeds in Diesel 2.
He grew those up and called them Sour Diesel.
Yeah.
And also, like someone—this is the—if you—it should never be in anyone's head
that X amount of generations equals IBL.
The generation has nothing to do with it other than the fact that you can't find them in
early generations because that would be—that's not how it works.
So, an IBL means you've achieved uniformity.
You can do that in any generation.
But a bad breeder can take something to F14 and never achieve uniformity.
I'll say it a different way, okay?
And maybe you can shit on this or not.
But to me, if you get a true breeding line, a true breeding cannabis line means that it
breeds true for at least one characteristic.
One trait.
It might breed true for multiple characteristics.
Right?
But it has to breed true for at least one consistent characteristic.
To me, a cannabis IBL means that it breeds true for basically all the characteristics.
Several.
Yeah.
You know?
It has very little variation within the line.
What you see is what you get.
You could probably plant out hundreds of them and the variation within the line would be
less than 5%.
Yeah.
So, it's not even desirable for the most part to have an IBL.
Because you're really cutting off pathways for people to do different things with the
line.
Unless you're like a hemp farm wanting to do a seed pop for vigor and you want uniformity
without having to do all the cloning.
That's like where IBLs shine.
And so, most people these days, they're like, oh, well, I have an inbred line.
I took it two or three or four generations.
So, now it's inbred.
That's not an IBL.
An IBL...
People confuse linebred with inbreeding.
A line that's been linebred can be variant and still have work put into it and be a line
that's linebred.
But it doesn't mean it's an inbred line proper.
And the hard part about it is that, you know, it's like IBL, it's like what are you even
trying to get out of it?
Are you trying to get something that like, you know, the only reason why an IBL would
even be desirable would be if you were trying to grow a whole bunch of consistent plants
in a field or something from seed or greenhouse or whatever.
And you wanted to grow from seed and you wanted it to all be very, very close to each other
in height, weight, branching, THC, this, that, whatever else.
Yeah.
But in cannabis, we like things to be a little bit variable so people have different choices
of where they're going.
Right?
And the term IBL is 99% of the time misused really bad.
Yeah, I used to rage about it for years and then I just stopped because it just didn't
matter.
People are going to use it anyways.
Yeah, it just doesn't exist.
If you look up the definition, almost nobody, like I said, maybe there's a couple other
things besides deep chunk.
Deep chunk's really the only one that comes to mind.
There's Christmas tree bud from Caleb's pretty consistent.
And it's so far and few between though, like two, three things I could think of.
And inbred does not mean IBL.
Yeah.
Inbred just, you know.
People have been asking about recombinant IBL.
Recombinant has to do with recombining the genetics and it's usually a GMO term.
So if someone's saying they're doing recombinant IBL work, they're not using the term correctly,
I have no clue what they're talking about.
You know, Rob Clark's book says F7 is IBL.
No, it's not, you know.
And Rob Clark also did good breeding, understood breeding.
To him, he might have been able to take something to IBL at an F7.
That would make sense because he understood the term.
He understood all that.
F7 does not equal IBL though.
You could take something that's incredibly different, like something from Bodhi that's
like a wild Cambodian and cross it with some Afghan and take it seven generations and it
wouldn't even be close to IBL.
Yeah.
Like there's no set amount of generations that gets there.
You either get there or you don't.
Yes.
It's crazy because it seems like, wow, that's a really easy way to describe it.
It is.
Like it's just as simple as that.
Is it uniform?
No, not IBL.
That's all you ever have to know about it.
And then the other thing about it is, is that like when people are doing like F-gens in
regular breeding, the size of the generation is so much larger, you know, and the population
they're picking at each F-gen is so much larger than most small scale hobbyist cannabis breeding.
That doing an IBL project is just outside the purview of most people's spacing.
And another term that gets used, of course, in cannabis, and I do it all the time, is
F1, the actual term F1.
Because most cannabis now that we work with, unless we're working with like fucking land
races or old heirloom lines, are going to be modern lines that are hybrids or polyhybrids
or poly, poly, poly, poly, polyhybrids, you know.
And trying to, in the definition of F1, it's combining two distinctly different genotypes.
Well, a lot of these are not distinctly different.
A lot of these are, you know, basically Afghani type expressions to the extreme, you know.
And if you're crossing two like types, that's not an F1.
But we don't really have specific terms in cannabis because it's such a wildly unique
crop.
So I don't know if there's any correct terms for stuff like, like polyhybrid, ex-polyhybrid.
It's not quite an F1.
I mean, people, someone just asked, what's the point of going so many generations in
general?
I will say that in general, most breeding these days is one step only.
Yeah.
To be old school breeding and to use these terms that get thrown around in cannabis,
you know, to do a bunch of stages of breeding, you would have to have a goal of what you're
trying to achieve.
And then however many generations it takes you until you feel like you've hit that goal.
Yeah.
That's really what it's about, you know, and there's no set amount of, you could hit that
generation in F3 or F4, or it could take you to F7 or F8, or it could take you to F10 or
whatever, you know?
Yeah.
It, it, it, it very much depends on your goals and what you're trying to stabilize within
the line.
And then the other thing is that, like I said, you can have a true breeding.
You can have a true breeding line that's only true breeding for one trait.
Right?
The more traits that you try to make true breeding within the same line, the harder
it is.
Yes.
So, you know, you try to make something that's extreme, like, like a skunk one can, is, is
true breeding for the most part for a few things.
Yeah.
Right.
It's got great calyx to leaf ratio, you know?
You know, it's, it's got a few different things, but it's got...
It's got the resin trait that Neville talked about that's very visible.
It's got the resin trait, you know, it's got, it's got a certain what people call skunkoid
type, you know, bud structure a lot.
Right?
But, you know, it has a range of terpene profiles.
Yeah.
You know, it has a range of other aspects.
It's not true breeding in every aspect.
It's true breeding in a few traits that tended to be useful.
So it tended to be bred to a lot of different things.
So the more true breeding traits you try to add in, the harder your project becomes.
Yeah.
I've noticed that DJ, despite DJ's work with blueberry being very odd, doing constant different,
different, constant F1s of every filial generation, meaning two different types inside the line,
which is not usually done.
Despite that, a lot of the blueberry stuff I found can be really good at breeding true
for certain traits if the lines worked a little bit more, like breeding true for purple, breeding
true for the blueberry terps, breeding true for XYZ.
Oddly enough, that's one of those ones that you can actually get good, good true breeding
traits.
A lot like Mendocurps even has a lot of certain traits that can breed true for type.
And, you know, maybe we can take it back because we were talking about NL5 haze before.
When Neville was looking through his NL5 haze seeds, he was basically looking for a few traits
that he was after.
He was looking for something that was 16 weeks or less because he thought longer than that
was a huge pain in the ass.
So even if it was amazing weed, if it took 20 weeks, he shit canned it.
He was looking for things with decent yields and he was looking for things that had the
high.
Yeah.
He wasn't looking for looks.
He wasn't necessarily looking for flavor profile.
He was looking for time of finish, bud structure, and effect.
Yeah.
You know?
Yield was super important too, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Time to finish, bud structure.
That's kind of what I meant by bud structure.
Yeah.
Bud structure.
Yeah.
You know, he was looking for things that threw bats and yielded fairly solid compared to
like a bunch of wispy calyxes and stuff like that.
And so he had three things he was basically looking for.
Time to finish, the high, and, you know, making it yield enough that it would bud structure
and yield so it was worth taking it that four months.
Yeah.
So he might have found some amazingly phenomenal stuff, but he was like, oh, it's 21 weeks.
Screw that.
Yeah.
And the more traits you start to add to look for those things, the harder it's going to
be to find it in a single plant.
Yep.
And it's why I avoid or I try to avoid using males that are super polyhybrid types with
a lot of expressions to narrow what I'm doing.
So if I have projects, I can use it as a tool as opposed to wondering what's going to happen.
And somebody wants to talk about Flow.
Yeah, that's a good idea.
I mean, we could talk about Flow without doing all the blueberry talk.
Sure.
I'll talk about Flow and then Matt can talk about Flow because we probably have our own
different takes on Flow.
Yeah.
Flow interested me because it was incredibly beautiful looking and DJ waxed poetic about
how it was almost a pure sativa, but it was done in that seven weeks.
Yeah.
Who doesn't want amazing cannabis that's done in 49 or 50 days, right?
Yeah.
So it had the look.
It's supposed to have a very up energetic high, all that type of stuff.
And when we did the, I was at the, like I mentioned before, I helped Jason King and
one of the Cannabible books get a lot of people so we could get a lot of pictures and helped
with a bunch of the projects and stuff.
And so at the Cannabible party, I bought like 450 seeds or something like that direct from
DJ.
Yeah.
Probably 03-ish, 02-ish.
And one of them was Flow.
So I got about 100 Flow seeds.
And I grew, so I grew out a lot of Flow.
I was pretty disappointed.
There was, especially pre-Cookie, I got a lot of pinks, a lot of blues, a lot of purples,
lavenders, very pretty, very feathery, not a lot of flavor, not a lot of high.
I was kind of disappointed.
So that's my experience with Flow.
Yeah, I can understand some of that.
I fell in love with Flow because, you know, like a lot of other people, I was falling
in love with purples.
And at the time, Flow was one of those base purples that people use to inject beautiful
colors into their work.
I've grown Flow from DJ's stock, modern DJ stock, something I purchased from him in the
past few years.
I run stock from Alkline Man, I believe it was, who did the Rose Flow, which is some
of the stuff I added to the site tonight.
And that was very different.
The old Dutch Passion release of Flow is very different from the modern DJ Flow, I found.
And yeah, I mean, it's a beautiful plant.
It can breed true for a lot of traits.
It's very floral, perfumey smelling from what my experience is with it.
But the Rose Flow from Alkline Man was like rosy perfumey, but way more heavy on the Nogchampa
incense, which you can also find in modern Flow too, stuff like that.
Some Flow is very cushy looking almost with the nuggetry structure, but those big, you
know, the wide space, what DJ called a stretch indica, you know, this long node spacing.
It's a gorgeous plant, but I've never really met anyone who goes, fuck, I love Smoke and
Flow.
I've never met anyone who's like, fuck, I love just Smoke and Pure Flow.
I've never met anyone.
For me, I wasn't a fan of the Colorado Flow at all.
I do not like that terp scent.
It reminds me of like a much more pronounced, turned up Mack one.
So I'm not a big fan of that terp profile.
Yeah, it's that floral perfumey, but it's very beautiful.
The Colorado Flow is super beautiful.
One of the prettiest Flow cuts.
Greenworks was talking about DJ's Flow cut.
That's another really pretty, nice one.
But yeah, I have a lot of experience with the Dutch Passion Flow and Alkline Man's work
with it, and that's what we put in the, what do we call it, Red Menace?
That crossed to Bubba because Bubba would...
I kind of wanted to make another...
I've crossed an Oregon Purple Tie to Bubba, and I've now crossed the Flow to Bubba to
what would a different Afghani type that wasn't used in Blue Barrier or in DJ's work would
do across to something like Flow to see what direction it goes.
So yeah.
Yeah, I'm not trying to diss DJ.
Sometimes you can find amazing stuff in a single pack.
Sometimes you can go through a bunch of seeds and find nothing that you're looking for.
I will say that when I was growing those lines, especially five, six years before Cookie even
popped up, there was a lot of colors that were quite rare in cannabis back then.
I just never found the turps and the high in the same plant.
If you could have found an extremely attractive plant that had nice flavor and the way I wanted
it to, I would have liked that better.
I just never was able to find something that I thought...
A lot like Blueberry, I think Flow does best in hybrids.
Yeah.
I think that's where it shines.
I think when you were interviewing Red and Chimera, Chimera made a pretty good point,
which is that he sort of considers all of DJ's work to be one line.
Yeah.
You know?
Yeah, it makes sense.
One family.
And what's nice about it is that it's inbred to the point where he didn't add a bunch of
other stuff to it, so it sort of is what it is.
Yeah.
And I think DJ took the breeding perception of, oh, I see these phenos in it.
Well, now if I take these phenos and I breed them together, I have Flow.
And if I take these phenos and I breed them, I get this.
And if I take these phenos and I breed them, they get that.
But they're all from the same general stock, just taken in different directions.
And so sometimes that works better than others, you know?
But it seems like DJ's work is much better suited to outcrossing to something very different
than itself, than within itself.
Yeah.
It seems like it shines more in hybrids than it does as far as my personal preference.
I'm not going to like, maybe like his son's going to go, JD's going to get all fucking
mad at me and fucking scream or whatever.
His daughter gets real mad all the time.
You know, but whatever the case may be.
Someone had a good question for you.
Would you mind saying if more of the cuts you keep are from someone else gifting or
are you hunting seeds?
That's a good question.
Most of them are cuts I've acquired, you know?
My collection is pretty weird in the sense that it's basically entirely suited around
my tastes.
I didn't collect it for any other reason than I liked the weed.
Yeah.
It's only now because most people didn't collect cuts and didn't hold on to cuts and
there's been a resurgence and a desire for some of these old famous things that all of
a sudden these things have been sought after.
So there's certain things that I have a lot of depth in in my collection and there's other
things that I don't prefer that much that I don't have very much of at all because it
wasn't collected to have some kind of like comprehensive database of all weed.
It was personal.
What's a scent profile that you would like to see in cannabis that you have not yet?
You know, maybe I'll cheat.
Yeah, cheat.
There is a scent profile in cannabis that I like a lot and I would love to see a plant
that translated it into flavor.
I would love a real bubblegum.
I think the bubblegum that's out there, there are plants that I think smell very strongly
of bubblegum.
Yeah.
I don't recall smoking things that make me lip smack like I just had some big league
chew.
Yeah.
You know, or something along those lines.
I mean, there's some aspects of, you know, there's some maybe some juicy fruit bubblegum.
Maybe there's some like there's some flavor for profiles a little bit like that, but your
straight classic pink bubblegum flavor.
I don't get that.
Yeah, I got that from the 95 Centi Star Fino that was bubblegum because it was super terpenelein
bubblegum and it would come through super like, you know, terpenelein does just fucking
amplifies everything.
It was it was really nice.
I think that's what the Indiana bubblegum needed.
So I did grab a bunch of the Durban bubblegum from Caleb for that reason.
There's questions going on.
Matt won't let me answer how many moms I have.
For opposite purposes.
I'll say you guys, there are limits to plant counts.
Why the fuck would you want him documenting anything about plant counts?
Stop it.
But I will.
But I will say that when it comes to important cuts, I don't like having only one mom of
certain things.
And the most important things to me, not only do I not like having one mom, but I do like
having them backed up with friends.
Oh, God, people want to fucking rare dankness.
I don't want to talk about Ranger.
Obviously, he wants us to talk about Scott.
You know, Reach was involved in early clone trading.
He's been around forever.
He has a lot of respect from a lot of different people.
So I'm sure he's a great guy.
I don't interact with him, so I don't know.
I didn't really grow any rare dankness stuff at the time because I was making stuff similar.
I heard people love that flow.
Oh, gee, cross.
I heard people.
I don't know who made it for them.
If that was something Scott from Renegades made or something Fletcher made from archive.
I know there's some head butting that went on there, so I don't want to speculate.
But yeah.
Yeah.
And so there's an aspect of I will say that most of the reason why people don't keep moms
more than what they're currently growing for, you know, modern times is because it's expensive.
It's time consuming.
It's a huge pain in the ass.
Yeah.
You know, I wish more people did it, but we could have an episode on long term mom health.
And, you know, I know we mentioned at the beginning of the thing,
people have been bugging about it all thing.
It's too late now.
We are going to run a little over than we normally do because people have been chatting a bunch.
But I'm not going to talk about dry tech today, simply because it's too detailed of a topic.
You should do that for one of your solo things that I've been trying to get you to record forever.
So there's an aspect actually where there is a bunch of solo content about some historical
stuff that's about to come out.
I know I promised it and it's right in the middle of my growing season.
So of course, like it's awesome for me to like be like, oh,
I'll come out with all this new stuff right in the middle of like I got plants everywhere.
So but there will be some historical stuff coming out.
And what we're going to do with it is I am going to talk for five or 10 minutes about
some specific histories or specific strains.
And it's very likely that I'm also going to make like an IG post with possibly some pictures and
some more information and a brief description.
And then people can go on our podcast and see like a little short and listen.
It'll probably be mostly audio to back up the post.
It won't be like video chat like this is right here.
But it will, you know, we're going to do some historical stuff like that.
So it will be coming soon.
I'm just right in the middle of growth season.
And so it's, you know, and Matt can tell you where to find he does the pitch on all.
Yeah, might as well start busting it out.
So first off, like, again, I had it pinned up here the whole time.
But for the audio listeners this weekend, I don't remember what the date is.
I think it's like the 16th of September.
So this weekend, 16th of September, coupon code invisible40 will get you 40% off for the weekend
on riotseeds.com.
We have my spray that's 40% off too for this weekend.
So take advantage of it while you can.
We have the Copperberry, which is the trainwreck trinity blue bonnet, the pure blue, pure cush
blue bonnet, blue bonnet bx1, triangle choke, blue cream, blueberry scone, red menace,
some of the Hawaiian light stuff up.
Some of it I still need to add.
We have the Santa Cruz goat farm stuff, which is the trainwreck fem hybrids.
I got my podcast coming up next Tuesday about alien shit.
So if you want to watch that, it's the invisible red.
Maybe I'll throw in there.
He just mentioned it real quick.
But we got a buddy that's on our discord that we chat with all the time, Pac.
And he was just mentioning the Pac goat farm stuff.
Um, Pac has been releasing some, uh, train wreck and some other lines that he's held
close for a long time.
And he's been breeding in my opinion, which is one of the best ways to breed, which is
with stuff he likes a lot.
Um, and so Matt has some of that.
So, uh, look up for that for sure.
I just wanted to plug that a little bit more than one sentence.
Um, but he's a good homie.
He's on our discord.
He's another person you can ask questions about.
And Matt's got some of his stuff that we've been selling.
So, uh, he's a good dude.
Yeah, that's an excellent plug.
Um, and we have our Patreon where you can come kick it with us.
Watch fucking movies, uh, shoot the shit.
We do giveaways.
I was going to do a giveaway here, but I'll probably actually, since we ran over time,
I'll probably just go do it on the Patreon and, and do a giveaway for the Patreon folks.
Um, uh, uh, so yeah, go to Patreon search breeder syndicate.
That's how you find us.
Go Google it.
Breeders syndicate 2.0.
You can find us on iTunes for the audio, YouTube.
You can find the audio and video after the show.
Um, I'll probably have this up within two hours.
So yeah, check it out.
We're on all the podcast software on YouTube.
Um, that's it.
Thank you everyone for showing up.
Not so you want anything else you want to get in?
No, just, uh, we will, I, I will have some, we will have some solo content and some different
stuff coming out very soon.
Uh, it's been a little slower than we thought, but, um, always thank you for your Friday night.
Thank you for your time.
Always good to listen to everyone.
Thanks everyone.
Peace.
Want more breeder syndicate?
Be sure to check out our Patreon by going to Google and searching breeder syndicate Patreon.
We have a secret discord where we are available at most times and interact daily.
There are a lot of perks to be had there.
So check it out.
Need seeds?
Check out riot seeds.com where you can get our seeds and our reversal spray for making
your own feminized seeds.
