Alright, taking a bit.
What's up everyone?
Slowly waking up.
Okay, I guess we wait for not so.
We have some kind of stuff planned, a little planned, as much as we plan.
I don't plan too well, so my apologies in advance.
How's everyone doing?
Slowly waiting for people to show up, get it started.
So I was thinking of doing a giveaway today, you know, at some point of this year, so we'll
probably do that.
I got a better idea so Natsu didn't have to come up with it.
Yo, yo.
Yo.
What's the habs, Jack?
Adjusting the height of my little thing here.
Yeah.
That's what she said.
Oh man.
Alright, you're good.
I am good.
You're good haircut.
Seems good.
You get a haircut?
I do.
Yeah.
No, not really.
No?
I got a haircut last week I think.
It looks good until it mushrooms out.
It doesn't really go long, it goes wide.
And then it gives you a dickhead?
So it just like, it just expands outward and you can wait for it to fall, but I don't have
enough hair left to really make that work.
Whenever my hair grows, I'm like, I'm gonna have to get a haircut.
I'm like, I'm gonna have to get a haircut.
I'm like, I'm gonna have to get a haircut.
I'm like, I'm gonna have to get a haircut.
Alright, so what did we want to start off with?
What did you want to kick it off with?
Well, we've been doing, so again, what we're gonna do is we've done a bunch of shows that
are somewhat like themed, you know?
And then the last few that we've been doing have kind of been more a bit more like some
loose subject matter that we discuss and then we riff off and then we answer some questions
and such.
And it seems like people are into that as well.
So we're gonna do one of those where we're gonna touch on some different stuff that people
asked about during the week on our Discord.
And then we'll riff off that a bit and people can answer questions or ask questions.
Matt's a little bit better at reading the screen than I am, but I'll try.
I can field some for you.
You can field some if you see anything that pops up that looks normal.
So I don't know, normally we wait until 150 ish people or something like that.
But we could start in a second.
So a couple things that people wanted to chat about a little bit was some stuff that
I'll mostly talk about, which is sort of like some traditional hash aspects.
And then there's some stuff that's a little bit more Matt where people were asking about
like, you know, what's like the international seed scene like today?
How does that all work?
What is changing in the seed world or whatever?
And Matt can speak a lot more eloquently on that than I can really.
But you can speak on the hash because I have never smoked like Afghan, Lebanese blonde.
I mean, I had a chunk of Silk Road hash that was like, I didn't smoke it.
It was too scary to smoke.
So I just didn't.
So it's interesting and like the hash thing, you know, the hash thing is kind of cool because
we can widen it out a little bit in the sense of, you know, and talk about like some traditional
weed cultures.
Because there is a real divide in weed cultures between cultures that grew weed primarily
to make hashish.
And cultures that grew weed primarily to smoke weed.
You know, and you know, that aspect and those choices made a lot of differences for people.
And now for a long time, one of the benefits of America is that we're isolated from everywhere.
We have like big oceans on either side and all that.
But we're very far away from the hash culture.
So traditionally, all the best hash sort of stays local.
And then some small amount of it would go to Europe, right?
And what America typically got was the B and C grade.
You know, so a lot of times, Americans especially, Canadians are a little different.
Canadians had some better connections and some better smuggling that happened up there.
So they sometimes saw a little bit better of a grade.
But Americans especially, you know, we got the shaft as far as high grade.
So a lot of people think of, imagine if your view of kind bud was like beasters.
And that's what you thought it was, because that's the only thing you've experienced.
A lot of people, if you haven't been to Europe, and you haven't been tied into those communities,
right?
You probably haven't smoked the best of the best.
And so there's a lot of hash people in America that think like the last 10 or 14 years of
sort of like the hash revolution that's happened over a year, that they have the best hash
by far, that they blow away all the traditional cultures by far, and that they're kind of
on the cutting edge, and they've changed the game.
And they figured it out.
Nobody else did.
Yeah.
Right.
Which is pretty far from the case.
Yeah.
You know, so it's like a lot of those things where, you know, we can kind of riff on that
for a little bit.
So maybe you can kind of talk, we can start like, maybe we'll start from the beginning
where it's like, the hash culture sort of comes from the, I would say the Near East
and the Middle East.
Yeah, I would say Indian culture, India, Chinese, maybe.
Yeah, I mean, and probably the oldest way to smoke cannabis, before they even figured
out how to smoke flour besides like burning flowers on brassieres or something, is the
hand rub.
Yeah.
You know, and that India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iran, the Middle East, you can go into like
Lebanon and Israel and those areas and you can go through North Africa, all the way to
Morocco.
And that's sort of hash culture.
Yeah.
Right.
And in terms of like, people grew weed to make, to turn weed into hash.
Yeah.
Where you start getting into like, Southeast Asia.
And you know, and especially the New World, like Mexico and Colombia and Panama and these
type of places in Africa, they mostly smoke weed.
Yeah.
And you know, one that caught me off guard was Nepal.
I always think of like Nepalese temple balls and that kind of hash culture.
But if I remember correctly, when I was studying it, most of it was a flower culture.
It was a little bit of both.
Yeah.
You know, but, you know, and so to be perfectly honest, like when I started going to Amsterdam,
I went there in search of seeds.
Yeah.
You know, and then I started getting introduced to hash and, you know, I smoked a bunch of
stuff.
But in the coffee shops, it's a lot like, you know, it's a lot like dispensaries or
whatever.
It's a whole variety of mids and junk and really good and pretty decent and stuff.
And it wasn't until I met collectors that started explaining to me like how it all worked.
Yeah.
Right.
And so there's an aspect maybe I could talk for a minute about before we talk about the
regional differences for a second.
Maybe I could talk about like something that we chat about often, which is the vast difference
between how traditional hash is made and how American hash is made.
Yeah.
Right.
So the American hash, the way it's made, in most cases, a lot of times it's called single
source, right?
It's a single clone, right?
Grown in either depths or outdoor, indoor, whatever.
And that single clone is usually, you know, dried or fresh frozen.
And then it's, you know, it's processed.
And then it's usually refrigerated or frozen right away or stored well until use and it's
used pretty quickly.
Yeah.
Right.
Where in traditional hash culture, you're harvesting a field of seeds.
Yeah.
Right.
So, you know, in America, it's like, oh, I'm going to pull down this greenhouse and it's
all for lack of a better term, it's all GMO.
Yeah.
It's the same cut, you know, same terpene profile, same CBD, CBN, THC, all that.
It's the same thing.
Yeah.
But if you're harvesting it from any other region, you're going to get the full range
of expression of that line.
Yeah.
Because they're harvesting thousands of sisters.
Yeah.
And then they're processing those sisters.
And unlike, if you're talking about like dry sift and stuff like that, they tend to let
that hash age.
Yeah.
On the plant for a number of months.
And then when it's cold and bone dry, they start a sifting process.
Yeah.
Right.
And then from that sifting process, you know, then they make it into various grades and
then they press it.
Right.
So that's not done in America at all.
All of your, all of your terp shit, all of your, whether it's fresh frozen or it's, you
know, BHO or it's, it's, you know, whatever extraction you're doing, it's usually single
source and it's not aged.
Usually the plant is taken down fresh and as soon as they can make the hash, they make
the hash.
Yeah.
Right.
And so, you know, I'm not exactly the expert on the science or whatever, but definitely
aging it creates, you know, it transfers things from one to the other.
Right.
So, you know, lots of CBN or CBD or this or that or whatever is converted into other bioactives,
whatnot.
And then on top of that, when we've wanted to get our buddy Bodhi on here for a long
time to do like a hippie hashish trail kind of episode.
And so we might get more in depth with that.
But when essentially when Europeans and white people first started going to the hash regions
and looking for export, most hash, there was a lot of hash that was one, two, three
years old.
Yeah.
You know, a lot of the best hashish wasn't smoked until it was over a year or two years
old.
Yikes.
Right.
I guess it's just different climate though.
It was different climate.
It was stored.
It was stored very differently, you know, and they just thought that it was, it was
not like it wasn't ready yet.
Yeah.
It was not ready yet.
You know?
And so and what's interesting about this is that if you go to Amsterdam and you have all
these people that have all the same access to all the same tech that we do here.
Yeah.
As far as extracting modern cultivars for hashish and all the hash heads over there
will tell you that the best hash that they smoke is the top import.
They can use pollinators.
They can use tumblers.
They can use, they can fresh froze and freeze dry and microplane and do all the tricks that
people win awards with over here.
And they still think that hash is inferior in quality and effect to the best of the best
import.
Right.
And, you know, but in America we all think that our shit is the best shit ever.
Of course.
Basically as soon as we invented the nail and we invented some modern ways of hash smoking
in oh oh nine, you know, 2010, 2011.
Yeah.
That that was the revolution.
And hash went from shitty to amazing.
Yeah.
Right.
Now it's true that most Americans got shitty hash.
And it's also true that when all these white people and all these Europeans and all these
Americans and Brotherhood of Eternal Love and all these assholes started coming to these
regions to look for hash and started offering crazy amounts of money.
Yeah.
The quality went way down.
People started adulterating.
People started middlemen started making it worse.
People wanted volume because there was so much demand.
Right.
So a lot of times the best stuff never leaves.
Yeah.
Even like even my friends in Amsterdam who are very tied in them getting the best of
the best is really hard.
I would imagine so.
And they and they savor it.
Right.
Yeah.
And they savor it and they hold on to it and it never makes the you know, I almost said
clubs it never almost never makes the the coffee shops.
Yeah.
Because it's all traded amongst each other.
Yeah.
Right.
It's all bought and sold that kind of grade.
You kind of have to know someone.
Yeah.
It's no different than like if you if for mention them again, if Bodhi gave out some
like 14 week amazing sativa, you probably wouldn't be able to buy it from the cookie
store.
Yeah.
Well, you'd have to have a home.
You'd have to have a homie.
Well, well, maybe now.
Maybe.
But but even someone even something that takes that long.
Yeah.
Yeah, for sure.
You know what I mean?
Like in Europe, you know, there's there's still like I have a buddy over there right
now that was texting me on what to get.
Matt, I didn't tell you this, but he just bought some CG 13 and C5 and some and some
A5 from over there.
You know, and those you know, those are 15 16 week strings.
Yeah.
That's unheard of to get in a dispensary over here.
Yeah, that's wild.
But over there, it's their bread and butter.
Yeah.
You know, so you can find that stuff.
So the biggest just to reiterate before we get too off track.
The biggest differences between American hash and like the best traditional is, you know,
what I was told by the Amsterdam crews is like the best stuff is made in traditional
regions, but Westerners help them to make sure that the purity and the process is amazing.
Okay.
Does that make sense?
So making their technique more purifying.
Making sure that the cleanliness, you know, and the technique and all that is good.
Good screens and everything like that.
And you know, people one of the reasons why people ask this is people asked about temple
balls, right?
Yeah.
These Nepalese temple balls.
And I will say that these Nepalese temple balls that I smoked from my buddy was some
of the best hash I've ever smoked in my life.
Okay.
And it's interesting, because a lot of people over there feel that way.
Yeah.
Right.
And they feel that like, there's something to the fact that like, a lot of this stuff
is being grown at six or seven or 8000 feet.
Yeah.
Right, where the air is thinner, and there's more UV.
And maybe that leads to a different type of psychoactive or a different type of THC
production.
Oh, sure.
You know, and so they would say that, like, you know, our buddy Yo Sammy, you know, would
say I don't care what modern cultivar you have.
I don't care what amazing cut you think you have or how pure you make it.
You know, it shits the bed next to the best temple ball.
Yeah.
Like, if you can get the best of the best, he's like just in flavor and effect.
Yeah.
Right.
And effect is hard to say because it's invisible.
Right?
So we got used to making all these modern cultivars and thinking that like, thousands
of years of hash culture, we just beat.
Yeah.
Because we're a little cleaner.
Yeah.
Because we got a little bit better.
We have a little bit, we have some machinery and we're a little bit better process.
But like, old timers will tell you that like, they think that putting your hash in the fridge
ruins it.
Yeah.
And you know, what's weird about the Nepalese stuff is I will say that, and this isn't a
plug on it or whatever, but anything I've ever smelled that smelled like the Mendo perps
that I cracked.
Yeah.
Had the Mendo perps in it.
Yeah.
In the sense that like, I've never smelled that terpene profile from any other plant
that wasn't it.
Yeah.
Or related to it.
Unless it was related to it in the sense that like, someone bred with it or it was an ancestor
of that, right?
Yeah.
Except these temple balls that I smoked.
And they smell, when you were burning them, they smelled like you were burning Mendo perps.
It's interesting.
Now, you know, does that mean that like, the Mendo pea is Nepalese?
I don't know.
You know, but or does it mean that it just evoked that terpene profile?
Yeah.
You know, I can't say.
But all those guys over there, what's crazy is that all those hash heads over there, they
grow all kinds of phenomenal weed.
And they sell all that weed to buy the best hash they can get.
Yeah.
You know, and somebody like, you know, when you were interviewing Kamera and Red, you
know?
Yeah.
I mean, he was saying that like, you know, he's never even seen Sam Skunkman smoke weed.
Yeah.
That you know, the top people over there are Hashishans.
Yeah.
You know, they smoke hash.
They're resin farmers.
Makes sense.
You know, that's what they're after.
They're after a resin.
Yeah.
And so, you know, we could widen that out for a little bit and talk about how, you know,
this is like a totally different tangent or whatever.
But when Americans started smoking weed, we were a flower culture.
We were getting weed from Mexico and Panama and Jamaica and Colombia and all these things.
And we were getting bricked and we were getting, you know, we were getting bricked of this
stuff.
And we started blending them with Afghans because of prohibition.
Right.
And it's super common.
And Matt can speak on this, too.
But most of the weed smokers back then were very disappointed in the smoke of the Afghans.
Yeah.
They didn't really like the high and they didn't really like the way it burned.
Yeah.
It was so vastly different than what they were used to.
Compared to sativas because those sativas have been bred for smoking.
Yeah.
They were bred to be burned as flour.
Yeah.
You know, I mean, I told this before, but there's this funny story of when Sam Skunkman
was in Afghanistan and he was searching for seeds.
Right.
And so he was asking these warlords for seeds, for flour, you know, and they looked at him
and they said, you know, smoking flowers for women and slaves.
Right.
Are you a woman or a slave?
Yeah.
And he had to convince them that he was a man and he just wanted them so he could grow
his own flour at home and make resin.
I wonder if he pulled out his wiener.
You know, and they prove it, you know.
But to them, it was like that was the thing.
The flour was a waste product.
Yeah.
You know, peasants and women, slaves and women smoked flour.
Real men smoked hash.
That was their culture.
So obviously you don't care how flour burns and you don't care how the flour affects you
because you never smoke it in that culture.
Yeah.
Americans were the first people taking all these hash plants and Afghans and actually
wanting to smoke them.
Yeah.
It hadn't happened before because none of those people back home where they were from
gave a shit.
Yeah.
And you can kind of draw a line from Morocco on the western part of Africa all throughout
North Africa, all the way up through Lebanon and Israel, all the way over Iran and into
Afghanistan and that's all hash.
Yeah.
Right.
But then once you get to like Cambodia, Thailand, that all kind of got lost.
Yeah.
And it flipped into weed smoking and exporting actual weed.
You know, and that part.
I wonder why.
Huh?
I wonder why.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
You know, and you know, it's like, I prefer flour too, to be honest.
And I don't think that we need to like base what we think of on what Afghans think.
But you know, definitely.
They you know, they just thought that because that was the culture that they were raised.
Men smoke hash.
Yeah.
You know, and women smoke flour and slaves.
I like that women.
They weren't good enough for hash.
Women were puffing tough on the flour over there.
And you know, and so there's this thing where when I first went over to Amsterdam, I met
this guy, he's still over there, Steve the Nose or whatever.
And I got introduced to some of this hashish culture.
And they would show me the best Moroccan, the best Lebanese.
These are amazing temple balls.
This is from Afghanistan.
This is from the Pakistani highlands.
And you smoke all this stuff and it's unbelievable.
Yeah.
Like he had the best hash collection I've ever seen in my life.
And these guys, they didn't even really smoke weed very much.
They had it.
Yeah.
You know, but they mostly cared about hashish.
That's so funny.
You know, and they thought they didn't care what method you used.
They didn't care what extraction technique you had.
All those cuts that you could make hash off of, they were inferior.
Yeah.
They were in it was inferior hashish.
Interesting.
You know?
Yeah.
And, you know, and so we, we, huh?
I knew you there.
I'm here.
So you know, they, so it's really a big, it's really interesting because Americans like
until things open up, I would say that 99% of Americans have probably never smoked the
top import grade of hash that you can get.
Yeah.
They just haven't seen it.
It doesn't, it doesn't show up.
It barely gets to Europe.
Yeah.
Before it gets absorbed.
I see a lot of people asking about the, the opium thing.
And I can comment on that real quick.
What they're referring to is an old story and it wasn't hash.
It wasn't a weed thing.
It was necessarily, it wasn't necessarily a weed thing.
The story was that Thai sticks were dipped in something called Passa water, which was
the water used when you produce heroin.
So when you're, when you're doing the conversion from opium to heroin, the leftover water is
called Passa water.
So there was theories or people would spread stories that, you know, all Thai sticks were
dipped in Passa water and that's why they were so strong.
When in reality, it probably wasn't the case.
That's not really how, how the water works drying on to weed, you know, but it, that,
that is stuck forever.
So that a lot of people think that Thai sticks have heroin in them and that's, yeah, that's
where that came from.
And you know, they don't mostly because, yeah, I think if it happened, it would have been
very rare.
I mean, the reason why is because cartels like that, they don't put more expensive drugs
on cheaper ones for free.
That's not how they operate, you know?
I mean, you know, now with like the whole fentanyl thing and all that, people are cutting
all kinds of stuff with highly dangerous substances.
Back in the day, if anything got cut with anything, it was by something cheaper and
weaker.
Yeah, I still am very skeptical on, on street fentanyl being cut into normal things because
it's still more expensive, I would imagine, than most of the drugs are saying that it's
cut with.
It doesn't really make sense unless people are trying to buy fentanyl and they're cutting
it with shit, but cheaper.
I'm going to, I'm going to reiterate it one more time just because I think it's really
important.
Sure.
That almost all traditional hash, regardless of grade or quality, is made out of thousands
and thousands and thousands of sister plants grown from seed.
And so you get a very wide range of that, that strains profile, THC, CBD, CBN, terpenes,
all that kind of stuff.
It all gets blended together, right?
And so it's vastly different than growing a room or growing a greenhouse of GMO or Skittles
or something along those lines and taking the exact same genetic cut.
Right?
Yep.
And that exact same genetic cut and, and, and extracting that.
Indeed.
Right.
It's just very different.
And the way they process it is different.
And how long that it takes them before they think it's cured into something that they
want to smoke is also different.
So American hash culture is very new and it goes against the grain as far as like any
other kinds of hashish culture that you would, that you would, you would see.
Now it is true of course that with, with demand, right, they're going to mix all kinds of brokers
and, and, and people looking for profit are going to mix all kinds of, of cut into hash.
Yeah.
I'm talking about the nicest stuff.
I'm talking about the pure grade.
Yeah.
And hash in these regions was a lot better before all these white people showed up demanding
tons.
Oh, I'm sure.
And then once all these Europeans and all these English and all these Americans started
showing up on the hippie hashish trail in the seventies and they wanted just enormous
amounts of it, they blew through all the best.
And then of course, just like any other humans, you're going to get a bunch of people that
are trying to meet demand.
Yeah.
So the quality on average is going to go way down and you're going to get a bunch of B
and C grade and then you're going to get, you know, and then you're going to get, you
know, the, the top end is going to be a lot more rare.
Yeah.
You know?
And, you know, like I said, all those old timers that smoke hash, they all swear that
the best traditional hash is still the best.
Yeah.
Now, whether that's because of the strains they use, whether that's because they dry
farm it, you know, I mean, I'm sure there's a bunch of different reasons.
But the process itself is very different.
Yeah.
And the effect is very different.
And they, they all, they all swear by it and that's what they take the best of what they
grow.
You know, and that, and people say that too.
People say, I see that all the time.
I have a buddy of mine that was like, Oh yeah, yeah, yeah.
They know what they're fucking talking about.
They fucking make hash with the same hand they fucking wipe their shit on.
Yeah.
Right.
And I'm like, I feel like these people, these humans that have spent thousands of years
refining their hash culture don't know shit from what we've learned since 08 on.
Yeah.
Right.
Right.
And different cultures, man.
We've gone, we've gone through everybody dabbed with a fucking thousand degree glowing cherry
red hot nail or banger, you know, unpurged BHO.
Every two or three years we're like improving our technique and you only have to go back
five or six or seven years to techniques and shit that people wouldn't do again.
Yeah.
It already get out of style that we learned that a bunch of these terpenes are like carcinogenic
at the heat that most of these people were dabbing them with.
Right.
And then the other thing too, is when you watch, you know, you can get on IgE right?
You can watch some of these hash cultures work and how they heat the hash and how they
work the hash, you know, and how they get the hash malleable and how they get the resin
to be warm before they use it, you know, all that different types of stuff.
And so there's a lot to learn from those people, you know, because they've been smoking hash
for a long time.
Yeah.
You know, and like we, you know, we stumble upon all this stuff and we think we're doing
amazing because you can see through, you know, we want to put it on a piece of parchment
paper and be able to see through it.
Yeah.
We want to make it all fresh frozen, harvested, fresh frozen, put into this thing, put through
a freezer dryer, all this different stuff.
And you know, you know, Frenchie people talking about Frenchie and stuff like that.
And he did bring a little bit of the, of, of, of, of that different culture into all
this, you know, but there's an aspect of, you know, the, the,
the old timers will tell you that you would store the hash in like in loose bags, right?
In a cold spot.
And they said, if you wanted to ruin your hash, you put it in the fridge.
Yeah.
And, and the fridge and the humidity and the bullshit would ruin your fucking hash.
They were like, if you wanted to ruin it, just, just do that to it.
But if you put it into a cold, dry cellar and you let it age for a while, boom, it would
get better.
Yeah.
You know, and, you know, and so, and they also grow with a bunch of different cultivars
that we're not used to.
Yeah, that's very true too.
You know, and, you know, and they, you know, they grow from seed every year.
Yeah.
Right.
And we don't, we grow from clone, you know?
Yeah.
And so we've gotten really, and especially on the West Coast, you know, we've gotten
really egotistical about our hash making and about our extracts.
And we are, you know, we are doing better.
I'm not, I'm not saying that like what we do isn't viable.
I'm just saying that like from the people in Amsterdam that have vast experience with
both.
Yeah.
They all prefer the traditional shit if they can get the grade they want.
Oh, I'm sure.
So that should say something.
Okay.
People are asking the title of the book and someone did point out that Cherniak maybe
isn't so well liked.
But this is with Lawrence Cherniak and Alan Dronkers.
It's called How She Used the Joy of Making and Curing.
I was just putting up some pictures to illustrate as we were talking about how she used the
different styles, looks, techniques in here.
But yeah, people used to sit there and, you know, I don't know if you can see my hand
or whatever, but like you can, they would sit there and rub and rub and work and work
and work and really get the hash warm and malleable.
And then sometimes people would put it into a plastic bag and they would put it in the
heel of their shoe and they would walk on it to like work and work and work.
And they wouldn't just sit there.
And you'll see videos on IG now because there's people that are going around Afghanistan and
Pakistan and some of these hash cultures of how before they use it, they heat it up.
They work it, they get it to be, they get it to be a certain way.
So there's a lot of, there's a lot of, there's a lot of old techniques that I think are kind
of being ignored.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And I think that, you know, it's almost like this shit where like in California in the
seventies, people knew about red and white wine.
Yeah.
You know, that was the, that was the level of knowledge that like red went with, with
prime rib and meat, you know, and white was for their wife and went with fish or chicken
or something.
And that's about all they knew.
Yeah.
And now you fast forward 30 years or 40 years or whatever.
And now it's like, they're like, oh, Merlot and this Appalachian and the Pinot Gris that's
that, you know, that, that's, that's all going on and, and whatnot.
And you know, I think the same thing is going to happen with hash.
Yeah.
We're a baby hash culture in America and we don't know shit and we're learning stuff.
And every few years you can see hash culture and you can see people's techniques improve.
Yeah.
Right.
And, and, but we could learn a lot from, you know, and maybe they'll get to a point
like with the legality of things or whatnot where you could grow a field.
Yeah.
Like it would be cool for seed makers, right.
Where you could grow a field of, of, of seeds.
Yeah.
And then harvest the whole thing for hash.
Yeah.
That'd be awesome.
And then you get the full range of whatever, you know, Matt's bubble berry or, or, you
know, a Skittles hybrid or a GMO hybrid or whatever the case may be, you'd get the full
range in the hash instead of just like this one cut, I'm going to concentrate what's in
this one cut.
Yeah.
Cause that's never been done before.
Right.
Yeah.
It's not typically how it's done over there.
It's not typically how it's done over there.
And so we have, we have our own thing and it's not bad or anything like that.
I'm not saying that, but it, it's very different.
Yeah.
It's very different.
We could expand it out a little bit and talk about when, when they first started bringing
Afghans, you know, we all started growing sativa in America, right?
Because sativa seeds came free with the fucking wheat.
Yeah.
You get kilos of, you know, head stash brought in and everyone's selling it.
Your weed came with free seeds.
Yeah.
We used to sit there in high school, leaning back against the chair and we'd have a, we'd
have a tray and you'd break up the weed up here and you'd let all the seeds and stems
roll down and you'd keep, and you'd keep your weed up there.
Right.
But hash didn't come with free seeds.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So I was just watching someone tell a joke about bubble man.
We so we don't have, we don't, we don't, we didn't get very many seeds.
So you know, sativas were all everywhere, everywhere in the seventies and eighties.
And that was primarily what it all was.
How do you think puck washes?
How do I think like, man, you know, if you want to, if you want, if there's people out
there that don't like me and you want to think of me as a shitty grower, I should show you
some pictures of my puck grows because I did some, I did some depths and I did some greenhouse
outdoors with it.
And boy, was it not impressive?
I wouldn't wash it because there would be no resin to wash off.
I got, it was, it was a really ugly, I mean, I can't say what it looked like in the eighties
or in the nineties when it was a little younger.
But you know, when I got it, it hated sunlight and food.
Yeah.
And you know, strangely enough, those were two things that I like to give my plants sunlight
and food at the time.
So yeah, yeah, it was, it was really unusual.
You know, and you know, they so there's, you know, bubble hash and there's another aspect
of it too, where it's like, maybe we should, we could talk about this for a second is that
most people, most Americans, I was going to say white people, but most Americans will
say it that way, right?
Like, we don't like our time is, our time is money.
You know, so you look at the way traditional people sift, sifting is an amazing product,
but it's the most time consuming.
And it gets the least yield.
So it's the rarest.
So Americans are constantly looking for, can I wash this?
Can I BHO it?
Can I CO2?
What, what way can I do it?
That's efficient.
And I can get an extraction that yields.
What, how can I get yield?
Right?
Well, most of the time you have to put that through a solvent.
It's not just knocking the flowers over a screen and getting, and getting dry sift and
then putting that dry sift through a series of screens and cleaning it up like bubble
man has shown, right?
Even water is a salt.
Water is the original solvent.
That's why it's so funny that people call water solventless.
Water hash is solventless.
Like look, put in is water a solvent into Google and see what comes up.
Yeah.
It's a solvent.
Yeah, sure is.
It's the original.
And what's crazy about that is if you read, now granted there's a lot of, there's a,
there's some THC and terpenes and stuff like that aren't soluble in water.
Yeah.
But there is, if you read like a Rob Clark's book, Hasheesh, about 25% of terpenes are
water soluble.
Yeah.
So you can, so there's times when we did stuff with water hash, right?
Where you run something like some kind of tangy cross.
Yeah.
And that, and that citrus, that citrus comes through super strong.
Right?
Yeah.
So you run something like the 56 day headband and it comes out smelling like axle grease.
Yeah.
It's super potent, but it's like chemical process didn't like it's the chain that makes
up the, the, the aroma and the taste didn't make it through the hash making process.
Right.
So most of the stuff we do today, whether it's BHO or whether it's water hash and then
frozen or this or that, a lot of these things affect the flavor.
Yeah.
A lot of what becomes popular is what keeps its flavor with the time saving techniques
that we use to make hash extraction easier.
Yeah.
You know, I mean you watch, you watch these guys like on IG or whatever, then you see
them do their traditional hash thing.
No American wants to be sitting there with a face mask on for eight hours a day over
a thing shaking flour and knocking off the crystals and then carefully, you know, like
refining it.
It doesn't get you enough weight for your time.
Yeah.
People, we want to use machines.
Well that changes it too.
Yeah.
Right.
It has to.
And part of the reason why I think like the tangy and the whole, to mention that again,
the tangy and the whole citrus craze happened is because when like, you know, in mid 2000s,
you couldn't give away Calio.
No, no.
People would not.
If you had citrus weed, that was a great way for your broker to look at you and say, nah
dog.
Yeah.
Nah dog.
I don't need that headache weed.
I'm not taking your weed, you know, but then, and it was also citrus weed tends to not be
that potent.
Yeah.
So it's, it's, you know, you could call it, I don't want to say midsy, but you could say
moderately potent at best.
Yeah.
With a flavor people didn't like.
Lacking recreational potency.
Yeah.
And then you start extracting it with BHO or this or that or whatever.
And all of a sudden that, that citrus terpene came through super solid and now the shit's
70% THC.
Yeah.
And it actually gets you high.
Yeah.
And so a lot of the popular strains in America that got made into hash, got made into hash
because after you put them through the processes that we do to make life easy.
Yeah.
And it still tasted and worked good.
You know, but the, but the old, like the old static tech and the old, like, and the old
sifting tech that was like used forever.
That wasn't abandoned because it sucked.
It was abandoned because it was lower yield and took a lot more time.
Yeah.
And Amer, and you know, most hash guys like to make their money quick.
Right.
Yeah.
Turn it over.
I want to turn it over, you know?
And so you get like what you think is the world's most amazing hash.
The hash collectors in Europe don't think you're smoking the world's most amazing hash.
Yeah.
And that's not that it's not good and everybody can have their opinion, you know?
Yeah.
They just have a different perspective on it and more, man, it's hard to say, but more
cultured at some points when it comes to hash specifically.
I mean, it's one of those things like, like, that's why you can compare it to wine.
Yeah.
You know, it's like now in California, you can have all these wine nerds that are extremely
intelligent about the different grapes and the different grades and the different appellations
and where certain varieties do better than others because of climate.
Yeah.
In the seventies, it was red and white.
And that's kind of where we are hashish wise right now.
We're just learning and like anybody who's listening right now, like, you know, who's
made hash for the last 10 or 15 years, think about how much your techniques and what you've
been doing has been changing every year or two this whole time.
It's not like you've reached the mountaintop, you know, it's like people figure out a way
to do it better.
And then people are like, oh shit, I'm going to do it that way.
Yeah.
And a lot of the traditional hash people tell me that most of the modern cultivars that
we grow with suck as far as hash extraction.
Where you get some Lebanese shit or you get some Nepalese stuff that for generations has
been grown just for that.
And that shit dumps.
Yeah.
You know, because that's what they designed it to do.
And when the hash revolution hit 10, 12 years ago, you know, people started looking around
for all the elites that had been kept around and do any of these also dump hash?
Yeah.
They weren't bred for that.
No one ever thought of it.
Hash was like a, you know, hash was like a personal product.
Yeah.
Maybe you could get some kefir to club.
Maybe you should get some water hash at a club.
You know, people would get scissor hash, you know, if you were working or people would
get finger hash when they were bucking down stuff and all that, but it wasn't like commoditized.
Yeah.
Right.
Did you ever use an ISO 2?
Oh God.
Yeah.
I want one of those to try.
If any of you guys out there have an ISO 2, I will trade you some seeds for one.
I used to use my dad's as like a He-Man castle along with my castle gray skull and shit.
But I'd really like to see how it works today.
You know what I mean?
We could probably do a whole show one time on just the different eras of like, oh, that
sounds cool.
Yeah.
Oh, I'm going to go on an octagon.
Oh, I'm going to grow areoponics.
Oh, I'm going to grow NFT.
Oh, I'm going to grow this way.
Oh, I'm going to extract that way.
Oh, I'm going to grow this way.
Oh, I'm going to grow NFT.
Oh, I'm going to extract that way.
Oh, I'm going to, you know.
Colosseums.
Yeah, colosseums.
I mean, dude, I had two colosseum.
I mean, we could go through all that of just all whatever's the most cutting edge shit
imaginable, you know?
Do you remember the V-Tables?
Yeah.
They were like that?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I remember when those popped up.
Those were pretty cool.
And so it's funny, right?
Because a lot of my friends are egotistical or whatever.
You know, but it's like the main..
You talk to hash people in California and the west coast now, and they think they're
the best hash people that have ever lived.
Sure that they dominate, you know, and I'm not dissing them because they are figuring stuff out and they are making nice hash
Yeah, right. Most of them are failed growers. Fuck them. They're also turning their back on thousands of years of humans learning shit
Yeah
You know and and and it's and it's like it's like when you're shocked when old people have something to teach you
Yeah, you know, yeah, uh, you know, there's
There's there's techniques and there's things and there's aspects
um, you know that uh, you know, I mean think about all those classes that frenchie did
Yeah
Just who the fuck are you supposed to be?
You know and he was and he all he was doing was just
teaching some people how
Different cultures over there made some hash. Yeah
You know and people ate it up
Yeah, they did
You know and there's different flavor profiles and there might be a way
Where you take a cultivar and you extract it one way and it's potent, but it sucks
And then you do it another way and it's amazing
So it's not like all strains react the same like something like I said, some things go through water like a champ
Right. I even did shit where I would have like a greenhouse full of the same strains and then I would have outdoor
Yeah, and like sometimes like the sour diesels and certain things like that if they got rained on a bunch in october
Their terpene profile wouldn't be exactly what I was after
Yeah, but the sour diesel grown 30 feet away in a greenhouse that never got rained on once
Was fed with the same food and the same everything would be bombed
You know, but like the super silver haze or certain citrus stuff it wasn't affected by the rain at all
Yeah, it just kept its profile but sometimes the rain enough rain would fuck up the flavor on my weed
Yeah
you know
um and uh
Well, you know someone just said it's potent but it sucks. That's the biggest oxymoron ever
Not really. It depends because it depends on how it depends on how you
What the high is like?
Yeah, right. I mean quality of high you can read old high times, right and not to bring up high times
but
A lot of people's opinion of the old afghani one
Was that it was a uncomfortable anxiety inducing body high that gave you heart palpitations
And it was one of the least enjoyable smokes out there
Yeah, and they way preferred sativas or normal or nls or there was lots of other highs that they liked
Yeah, they thought it was potent
But they didn't like it. Yeah, you know some people like some some people the that sativa buzz
That nl5 hayes buzz or that nevels hayes buzz
It's super potent and it makes them want to crawl out of their skin and jump off a bridge and die and they'd never smoke
It again if if you know, they hate it. Yeah, that's like me with skunk one types. They fucking hate it. It's super potent
It's amazing. It's the nicest sativa i've ever smoked
But there's people that'll smoke it a couple of times and they'll be like I know
That's a bad time for me
So, you know potency is just one aspect. It just means it's strong
It doesn't mean that it's going to affect you in a pleasant way
Yeah, you know I personally I don't like edibles
Yeah. Oh, no, you can't control the high
You're just strapped in because and the reason why I don't like edibles and i'll be perfectly honest is that they fuck with my equilibrium
Oh, really? They give me this like, you know when you're drunk and you're like if I put a foot on the ground
I'll stop the spins. Yeah. Yeah, they can give me the spins
Ooh, that's not and I don't like that feeling. Yeah, and I have friends that'll be like, oh you just got to eat enough and
Blow past it. Yeah, and for me i'm like well how how many hours of uncomfortable do I have to feel before I start feeling good?
Yeah
Because that's I don't feel good
Yeah, you know, I like weed a whole bunch and I don't feel good at all
You know, so how many hours of my life do I want to not feel good?
Yeah
You know, I that happens to me enough, you know, so I don't do edibles because
Like I got kids and shit, you know, so
You know, one of my kids could break their toe or whatever
And yeah, I it doesn't matter how much weed i've smoked. I can hop in the car. I can take them to the hospital
I can do whatever I need to do. Yeah, but if I just ate a couple hundred milligrams of edibles
I might need to like call a lifeline, you know, or yeah
i'm not you know
And then yeah, I have all kinds of people are going to start commenting
Oh, you just need to take these you just need to eat these i'm just saying that for me
The way my body works
Sometimes it gives me the spins
Yeah, and I don't like the spins. I think a lot of people don't understand that though. How how variable the
Everybody's brain chemistry is and how each individual
Cannabinoid or what have you interacts differently with everyone?
Not everybody gets the same effect from the same clone though, though, you know, I mean collectives
That's the way people are taught all all indicas do this all sativas do this all hybrids do right in the middle, you know
It's just yeah, it's just it's just not that way. I mean I I chem 91 is one of my all-time favorite highs
Yeah, it makes me feel like i'm a teenager
Watching a mel book mel brooks movie and I got a big thing of popcorn and i'm happy and content and life is great
Yeah, and we have good friends
That are like meh
I mean, I love what I love what it what it breeds like and I understand that a lot of other people like it
But I wouldn't like to smoke it on a regular basis
Yeah, but I love it
You know, so there's that aspect too
you know, and that's that's one of the main things that
Um, all the hash guys that experience tell me is that they can't they just simply can't find the same effect
Yeah, have you tried suppositories buddy? Have you tried any of those? No, I can assist you if you need help
I know you've got you've got all those you got all those extra jumbo
I got that extra long attachment on the thing that get it
Release no. Yeah, I don't I don't need any of that kind of stuff
I mean i'm sure that for people that have a hard time and a bunch of nausea
You know, um, i'm not trying to make foot off fun off it or whatever if that might be the best way for them to absorb
Yeah
I got a pretty funny pretty funny story about boofing stuff. So I had a friend named brian. He's dead now
But he had heard that if you boof oxycontin and granted that we were like 17 18
You heard that if you boof oxycontin you get really fucked up and this is in the early days of oxycontin
So he stuck the oxycontin up his ass and waited and waited and then he realized that there's a coating on the outside
That it really won't penetrate through your asshole
So he had to crush it up and reinsert it into his ass
That's my boofing story you're welcome everyone
I I do joke with uh, my friends that are younger than me, you know
That their contribution to drug culture is boofing
Yeah, it really is. That's that's that's what they that's what they're going to be remembered for that's their innovation
Yeah, you know
All that different types of stuff and you know, whatever it uh, like I have seen people
Making suppositories for very sick cancer patients and aids patients and other various aspects
And i'm sure that uh, they do a great job
Um, but what people also should know too is that when you eat when you eat weed
Uh, or you take it, you know, uh suppository style it turns into thc 11
Okay, did you know that? No, I didn't it converts into something when you smoke it. It's it's delta 11 thc delta 11
That's right
And uh, it's much longer lasting
You know, um, and so that's kind of why you get fucked like in the sense of like if it if it hits you the wrong
Way, yeah, you're sort of stuck with that feeling for a while
Yeah, and so me and delta 9 are real good friends
Yeah, delta 9 and me we get along we see we see eye to eye on things
I can smoke whatever format even you know
I don't i'm more of a flower person than hash but I can smoke a bunch of hash and I can still accomplish whatever I
Need to do. Yeah 11 hydroxy not delta. That makes sense. Okay. Yeah 11. Maybe I misspoke but
Um, but yeah, it converts in your gut into something different
Okay, and it's longer lasting and it has a a some different effects
Well, yeah, doesn't it um bind with your fat cells too, which makes it more potent in your stomach now
We're getting into into areas i'm not familiar with
Yeah, um, you know, it's one of those things where I don't care about edibles that much because I don't
Um, I don't uh, I don't do some they're not that important to me, you know
I I do think that they're a great way for some people to get medicine
Yeah, you know, but I I got shit to do and I got kids and I can't take myself out
Yeah. Yeah, it's a good way to take yourself out and you know to be honest like in the 90s and stuff like that, you know, uh
Now you can go to the you can go to the store and you can be like, oh i'm gonna get a five
Milligram or a 10 milligram or a 50 or 100 milligram, you know? Yeah. Um and back in the day
You know and you know when I was doing edibles more it was like is this ganja goo ball am I gonna feel anything?
Yeah
All the way up to i'm in my tent and I can't move
Yeah, and i'm missing the festival because i'm horizontal
You know, yeah, okay
Chimera just answered he said no it crosses the blood brain barrier more easily makes sense
It converts in the liver not the gut which totally makes sense. Yeah. Yeah, I knew I was gonna
I knew I was gonna misspeak. I knew that it affected you differently and it converted differently
Yeah, um, I was nervous to talk about the various science of it because I I wasn't I probably wasn't gonna get there
Yeah, see i'm i'm very um adventuresome and i'll talk about the science of it. You know exactly nothing what i'm talking about
So i'm good at that part. I just knew that it converted differently
And and it and it it lasted longer and it has a different series of effects
uh than inhale and then smoking
Yeah, I know someone said that um people with diabetes can't feel edibles and I can absolutely disprove that
Because i'm diabetic and I can feel edibles
Yeah, I mean i've been on you know, i've eaten some ganja goo balls at times and stuff and I
Definitely i'm not i'm speaking from experience when
I was like i'm in the tent and I can't move I can't stand up. I need to pee am I gonna pee myself?
Can I move?
Yeah, you know, that's a good shit. Yeah, because you know, it's just like it's just bad dosing
Yeah, these six ganja goo balls are almost worthless and you wasted your money and this one is like catatonic
Yeah, you know, do you really want to be catatonic at a festival? You know? Yeah. No, that's how you get raped
Happens. Well, no, I mean not that I mean, but it's but it's just yeah
You paid money to be there and now you're laying on rocks on in a tent
spinning
you know
um
but it's just one of those things where it's like, uh,
You know and actually too it's like it's interesting in the sense that
I don't even know if I should bring this up, but I have a I have a daughter that's I have a couple daughters in
Middle school, right?
And it's one of their big issues right now
Yeah is edibles
Really?
Think about it. It's taking edibles to school. Yeah, they're easy to to mask
An older brother an older sister or someone that's willing to go and buy them and kick them down
Yeah, they're sour patch kids. They're made in a bunch of attractive ways
Like when we were kids the only way you got edibles is if some degenerate older brother made some brownies
Yeah, exactly some shake or something like that was able to stink up their whole house or some shit
Yeah now they can get like these really attractive much more controllable packages
Right there. You're not going to get caught with a lighter or a pipe or stinking like weed or anything like that
You can just eat like a 10 milligram
Yeah, right and so they're a lot more prevalent
Makes sense nerds ropes sour patch kids rice krispy treats all kinds of there's an immense amount of
baking
And candy and shit and much more controllable amounts
Um that uh, I just don't like it
And i'm not what you're saying is kids are good customers
None, you know, I just mean that kids kids are going to get access to whatever is cool that's available in their local area
And it's easy to smuggle in I mean I remember back in high school
They would do like locker raids and all kinds of shit trying to catch us dealing drugs
And uh, we didn't have things like, you know gummy bears and shit like that
If you if you took out some of those gummy bear if you took out some sour patch kids from a from a
An edible thing you got and you put them in a real sour patch kids thing and took them in your lunch box or your?
Thing or backpack, how would they fucking know exactly? Yeah visible at that point, you know
um
But you know, so I just uh, I just I just don't like edibles
you know
I just don't like edibles. Um, but
Um, we kind of got off we kind of got off track there or whatever, but it's like a big thing
You know, some people are into them, but they steal they steal my they steal my equilibrium
I don't know if they steal other people's equilibrium
but I start
Not feeling the right way and then I get hot
Yeah, and when you get hot and you have the spins, I mean how fun is that yeah, you end up puking that's uh
It's not fun for me. No, you know
But you know, and I I think it'll probably take like it would probably take like international
freedom
Where weed really becomes opened up?
You know, yeah for americans
Over here at least to really start trying like the finest grades
of imported hashish
I just don't see I I see the
The world opening up and it being so super corporate and hyper illegal that nobody's going to be fucking with shit like that
You know, it's going to be in afghanistan. They'll have
Those small clubs and all that shit
It'll be just that culture infiltrating everywhere as opposed to letting the cultures that are there stay there being able to try each other's cultures
uh
Who knows there's money to be made off this shit, you know right now, you know, you can get you can get greek olive oil
You know, you can get those iberian hams that cost 1800 for the leg that have been dry aged x amount
You know what? You can't get huh? You know what you can't get
Thailand races anymore. It's very very hard things are disappearing
Not just the not just the strains but the cultures are disappearing with them in some senses and granted that's not a hash culture
Necessarily, but it just like just like those strains disappearing. I mean, it's you know, the techniques are going to be going with them
over time
So, you know people saying people are talking about people pay more for six star or whatever else so
there's an aspect where
You know, there's obviously different grades
right
But no matter how pure you make it you're still limited by your starting material
Yeah, are you all getting it from a single source?
Right. Is it all the same cultivars all the same cut? Are you getting it from a field?
Are you getting it from a you planted thousands of seeds and you're harvesting those females?
Yeah, you know
um and and all that and so
uh, you know, there's an aspect there where
um
You know because you're gonna hash is concentrated, right?
Yeah, where you're gonna concentrate what was in the flower
Yeah, you're gonna concentrate the qualities of that of that thc or that blend or that cbd cbn terpene
Profile all that, you know, what do they call it entourage effect?
Yes, you know so you just you're gonna get a vastly different experience probably from moroccan from lebanese to afghanistan to southeast asian to
sherbet, yeah
Right
Yes, sir. Balado
Sherbet, and then a lot of times too people people still like even hash makers right now. It's like oh my god
This is unbelievable
The terpenes off it are amazing, but it yielded two percent. So fuck it. I'm not going to do it
Yeah, right people want hash dumpers
Yeah, it's gotta it's gotta be commercially viable
First yeah, or it won't get beyond some small little circle
There might be some there might be a few friends that like wash it and they're all trading grams amongst each other and all stoked
But it won't trickle down to where the normal person can get it because it wasn't a viable amount
Exactly, and i'm not a hash guy that that big or whatever
But I do know from working in legal cannabis and stuff like that that there's
Minimum numbers of weight return that you need to get to make it be viable
Yeah to pay for your time to pay for the equipment to pay for
The the shift work and all the stuff that goes into making hash. So if it doesn't dump enough
Regardless of how nice it affects you
Yeah, it's gonna get it's gonna get shifted to the side
Yeah, and if you've got something that that blows your head off, but it yields three and a half percent
And it's sister plant
Tastes a little bit different and doesn't work as good but yields six percent
Yeah, six percent is getting run and washed all day
Yeah, because that's making a money
You know
so
um
You know, so there's that too where it's like the commercial side of it people might think oh we have the best hash in the world
But unless it's commercially viable, you'll probably never see it
Unless you're growing it and washing it and making it yourself
Yeah, or in your small circle of friends and trading it amongst each other
Just like you know, just like before like if you were growing a 12 or 13 or 14 week plant
You'd probably never be able to buy that in a store
Yeah, I wouldn't think so gmo is probably the first thing that came out that took 12 weeks
That people were willing to jump on
Yeah, that always shocked me especially coming from cookies
well part of the reason part of the reason why I think people were willing to jump on it was because even though it took
Two weeks four weeks longer than they wanted or three weeks longer than they wanted it dumped like crazy
Yeah, and it tested super high and it smelled like chemd and chemd was not everywhere
Yeah, so it like so, you know, so the yield made it worth it
Yeah, right where if the yield doesn't make the extra time worth it. I mean
Matt and I joke that like I mean, there's some pretty famous breeders out there that are like if it takes any longer than 63
Days, it's fucked
Yeah, or i'm harvesting it early. Yeah, i've got this banger columbian and it takes 11 weeks
But I don't take it longer than 63 days because it doesn't fit my model
Yeah
You know
And that's kind of how that rolls
Yeah, and uh american way the american. Well, it's just it's it's there's a difference between
quality and commercial
Yeah, and that's what I mean too about about like for instance the uh, the wine industry is now there's enough education in the wine industry
that
a certain seven or eight year old cabernet
From a certain winery in a certain region
You can get that extra ducats
To make that a viable product
Right now cannabis doesn't have enough of that separation
To make the rare and the cool and the expensive worth it
Right, there's all there's like this range that everybody's working in and we haven't gotten educated enough that you could be like
You should pay more for this weed because it's nevels haze and it takes 15 weeks and you know, it does this
Eventually, you'll have people that are willing to throw down for that
Yeah, right right now you don't
Right right now. It's just it's it's you don't you know
And so until you get that level of education until you get that consumer willing to pay for it
I honestly think like the reason why
People are going to yell at me for this, but I think the reason why freaking uh, haze did so well in new york
right
was because there was there was
Musicians and rich people and wall street brokers to sell it to yeah
They could they could sell them a higher grade
Yeah straight up just like that, you know
I mean, do you think kush would have been so popular in in la if it wasn't 7200 a pound wholesale?
Oh, yeah. No never it was an aspect of it where
Where it became massive because in la it was like, oh this is expensive and exclusive and it's not in your bag
Yeah
And then people wanted what the what what people had it
Yeah, right and people were willing to pay a shit ton for it
But we really haven't gotten there with weed yet too much there's individual things that break through here and there
But we really haven't gotten the criteria as to like why?
This weed or why this hash is nicer and should be more expensive
Yeah
You know
um
You know, I mean I I even saw there was there was some shit. I can't remember what it was
I you know, I see that uh, you know, uh chimera is on here
He was talking earlier this week about he's got rks that he doesn't want to release
Because it's got unique traits in it
That he wants to utilize later. Yeah, and he doesn't think the market's ready for it
Whatever those traits might be, you know
And that could be that could be true, too
There's lots of times the market isn't ready for anything. I've always been very good at being
um
at the forefront of stuff and
Absolutely making no sales being at the forefront of stuff and watching others come and clean up with it
It's just about hitting it at the right time when the market's ready for something
I mean we talked about that before too like all that super dog work that me and my and my homie did you know?
Yeah, um, that was like years before american seed sellers could really get a toe hold
Yeah, we had no place for it to go
Yeah
You know, we had no place for it to go
You know
so, um
You know, it's it's got to be the right it's got it. There's got to be a balance between commercially viable
Mm-hmm and fire
Yeah, and it has to match
You know, so I don't know right now. It's like we've been in we went to war with afghanistan for 20 years
so it's probably not the uh
um, it's probably not the best time to go over there as a white guy and uh
Start looking around for hashish and and rare things like that, you know, you can get taliban or whatever
um, but
you know, but uh
Um, but they actually have a real culture over there
Yeah, they have a real vibrant hashish culture
And it's just separated from us
you know, it's always a trip to me with a with how how um,
Religiously conservative those areas are but there still is a breeding culture or a weed culture there, you know
It is so counter to the muslim culture
I just you know, it's like I think it's one of those things where it's like, uh, it it predated
You know predated the that whole thing. Yeah, maybe it's just it's it's well it's just kind of like how
You know, like, you know, there's any number of different things where like christianity just absorbed certain pagan rituals into itself
Oh, yeah, that's true. Good because they because they couldn't get rid of it. Yeah, they co-opted it
Right. Yeah, so you want to bring you want to bring a lot to to afghanistan? You're gonna have to incorporate some hashish
Yeah, because it's ancient there and they ain't getting rid of
Yeah should have done that with christians
You know better here. Yeah, I mean, well, you know, they I mean they it it just it just didn't it's probably an anomaly
Yeah
It probably is. Yeah, you know like it's an accident
you know, um
And you know, they probably didn't realize how much effect they were gonna have a thousand years later or two thousand years later
i'm sure
And in that regard
you know, yeah, um
so
But yeah, I mean hash
You know the the hash in america is moving along really quickly
uh, and I wish I could go back to to um, maybe I will sometime go back and
Um and talk in in holland and stuff like that and see what what they have right now is their best stuff
Yeah, that'd be interesting to know and just how it affects you
Yeah, because that's what they all talk about is the the flavor and the effect is just
Un-un you just can't you just can't get it in other shit
I'll be the judge of that shit
You know, yeah, I don't know. Yeah
But and they also even back when I was going back there a bunch it was like they would grab
You know like, you know a certain amount of helos would hit amsterdam
And it would all get bought up by collectors
And then they all sit on it and hope that they didn't run out before they found something else of that quality
Yeah, and so they'd have a chunk of this and a chunk of this and a chunk of that and you know
So on and so forth and whatnot
And that's what you know, they'd smoke they'd smoke. They'd almost keep flower for the americans
Yeah, and then they'd show you and then they'd show you what they really were were into
Yeah
In that regard, you know
um and
You know and so, uh, you know, we're we uh
I don't know. Maybe maybe there's a there's an aspect of america where we blend
We blended a bunch of the smoking weed with a bunch of the hashish weed
What do you mean kind of create? Huh? What do you mean?
well, you know, we took stuff that was bred for smoking like
Thai
Colombian and and mexican and things of that nature and then we blended it with all this stuff that was
Specifically designed for hashish. Yeah
Like all the afghans that came over originally. Yeah
That was all bred exclusively for they didn't they weren't going for like does this flower taste good?
Yeah, they never tasted the flower
Right. Yeah, they hashed it
But the hash had to taste have a taste of its own
You know, yeah, but it's different it's different when you're burning aged hash
That's versus versus like a bunch of flower material. Yeah
You know and so we started figuring all that out
And we started blending it with sativas and blending it with different things and trying to see how they all came out
Yeah, you know, it's weird in the sense that like america and holland sort of became the two places
I should say canada to north america
Yeah sort of became where like all the various regions of weed started blending
Yeah, you could probably put australia in that category
I would sound like it sounds like I don't have a lot of familiarity with over there
but like it sounds like australia was another melting pot where they got a bunch of southeast asian weed and they got a bunch of uh,
um
They got a bunch of indians and afghanistan and pakistan and blends of different stuff, you know
Yeah and whatnot and so
you know it uh
And there was people too. Maybe we could switch we could switch bases for a second
There was people that were asking which is more matt's world than mine
Uh, I can let him talk for a minute about what the what the internet what the seed market is like outside of us
like outside of us outside of our like little sts reversals
Like what everyone's familiar with oh, this guy's dropping caps dropping something
Matt's dropping something csi has a drop here comes these people
You know because we're used to like very small scale
um
You know like and I think probably most people think of the last 10 years as what's normal
Yeah, but that's not I would think so. Yeah
But that's not really what's out of it
But you know, obviously like so maybe you could talk for a minute about like what what is it like out there?
well, I mean like
So like someone like pymera that's been around before me
He's going to have a different experience than when I entered when I entered in you had to fuck with europeans
Or your seeds weren't going to sell
You know if you weren't fucking with european seed bank and we're trying to do direct you had a very very small chance of getting
Any meaningful sales because people wanted to buy from seed banks seed banks were known there wasn't a lot of places to do exchanges
You could always you know do it get down in the dms on different forums and stuff
But that was that was really not cool
like it wasn't looked at as a cool thing to do by the the forum owners because they were they were kind of taking a
Some risk for your exchange even though it was done in the dms. It's still on their server and transaction
so it wasn't looked upon positively by a lot of the the
The forum owners for anybody to be doing any exchanges of any sorts and usually you'd get banned
From uh places for doing anything of the sort
um, so we were we were
mostly counting on um when I entered in it had just started the british and uh
Attitude wasn't a thing when I first started. Um, but yeah, most of it was outside of the us
I think kevin stairway was was that canada or us?
I think uh canada
I think it was canada. I remember it was canada. I believe was it canada where calrissian was I believe so
Yeah, I mean
You had the canadian seed banks a lot of them wouldn't pick up american folks I remember um
Med user chris over over at woodhorse seeds. He was really not friendly to most americans. Um hemp depot
Was around but you still had a hard time getting them to pick up most americans
So being an american you had the choice mostly of british or if you were lucky
Like a dutch seed bank would pick you up. But yeah, it's
It was minimal a lot of it like when when I got booted off the attitude sub cool had asked it basically gave that given them a
Ultimatum me or him and at the time there was just me and him that were the americans on there
when I left the attitude and uh
on some unceremoniously left
um
I had to to figure out what was I going to do?
Is it going to take the risk be the one american trying to?
Sell direct or was I going to just find another seed bank and get fucked?
so first thing I did was try to operate a seed bank with a few other americans and
Unfortunately chose the brothel brothers who were notorious scammers and they got me
And eventually I just learned fuck I got to do this myself or or it's it's not going to work
and from there, you know, I mean
You could be operating great in the u.s
But if you weren't taking credit cards like the europeans then you just weren't going to be any sort of competition
And those were always going to get the the sales
Nowadays, it's a lot different nowadays. There's all sorts of direct buying. Uh, instagram kind of changed a lot
You know instagram made everyone a lot more accessible
Um seeds were a lot easier to sell because people weren't as interested in effect. They were more interested in learning
Uh by looking, you know, oh, that's pretty that look that looks dank became a real catchphrase during instagram
Oh that looks dank
But I mean
Back in the day, we kind of knew that looks didn't mean anything when it came to dankness
I mean, yeah, the weird thing let me interject for a second because i'm seeing stuff in the comments
Is that america was an enormous seed market?
Yes, but everyone that tried to deal with america
Typically got in trouble. Yeah, so everyone in europe, you know when they saw what happened in neville
Um, yeah, the super sativa seed club just shut down
and a lot of
You know seed banks became very hesitant to ship stuff to america. Yeah, and then
Canadian seed banks sort of took over that that role for a minute and started being willing to ship stuff to america
Um, and a lot of times they sort of like took the reins from europe because europe would send it to canada
you know, and it would get and it would get filtered through but as as uh,
You know camara was mentioning a few minutes ago
Um heaven stairway went down because there was an intercepted shipment to the united states
And that got cannabis world and overgrowth shut down at the same time
And well
And we we're going to do a full episode on this me and flan, but it's we're going to go into detail on
silk road
heaven stairway
overgrow
Ic mag and how they were all related in the big bust and this is over a period of several years
I mean, it's that people are still being prosecuted from one major fuck up. Yeah
And then that's one of the reasons why I used to go to amsterdam to buy seed in the 90s
Was because that was the most reliable way to get it
Getting it shipped over was very difficult, you know, and a lot of people wouldn't do it
Mark emery who had you know cannabis culture magazine
Uh and all that and he had his whole seed company
He ended up doing I don't know five-ish years or something like that in america in prison for seed sales
Um, so there was a big issue with america's this voracious seed market
But how do you get seeds there without getting in trouble?
Yeah
and so
You know, there wasn't you know people on ig now you can see all these things and that's why I was joking about
You know, oh this guy's got a drop coming, you know when 20 years ago or whatever when I was doing a bunch of breeding work
Um, there was no outlet to get that to anyone
Yeah, there was no way to advertise it. There was no way to set up shipping
There was no way to I mean even like somebody like dj short who um
Ended up working with a bunch of canadians
Part of the reason why he worked with so many people was that in order for his wheat his stuff to get out there
He had to work with tony from sag martha first
Yeah, and then he ended up working with the dutch passion crew. Thank you
Hank at dutch passion and he ended up not liking that and then he ended up working with various people up in canada
But he had to work with third parties because there was no way for him
To safely distribute advertise and communicate with people from america to get seeds out
Yeah, so it really wasn't until social media exploded and ig exploded
And proposition 215 and medical started spreading enough that it started calming down
Yeah for all these seed companies like, you know, think about all the popular, you know, uh cap or or you know
Swamp boys or these people, you know cookie anybody right? Yeah, all these people came up and their possibilities started
in the social media ig
Yeah, so what matt's talking about is how difficult it was as an american seed breeder to even find a home
That could that could be a middleman
That could get that could get your seeds out to people. So, you know my buddy
That uh that I you know, he doesn't like to be mentioned but my buddy I call staten island he kept talking about like
the potential for seeds
And I was totally dismissive
Right, and we were both right
Right at the time I was right
But he saw 10 or 15 years down the road what was coming
Yeah, you know he did he he saw it but it just wasn't there yet
I remember making that that
shift from um
Cash cropping. I mean, it's a very very clear memory for me when I had to make that choice of fuck
I can cash crop or I can make seeds i'm learning. I cannot do both, you know
And having to make something that I know I know I can make enough money to survive
Growing
ginseng
That's not what I love to do
You know that way that did that slowly was not my passion anymore
My passion was making seeds and and learning what I could create, you know, what could be created in these rooms?
and uh
Having to make that decision to only go to seed was a tough one because at the time they it was very risky
There wasn't a lot of money in seeds. I mean granted greenhouse was killing it dna was killing it
But americans just weren't killing it at that level yet
I mean dna we can talk about dna for a second. Those are two americans
Plumber and the stunt cop. Yeah, and they
You know, they they went to humboldt and mendo and all these different places and they gathered up a bunch of seed and a bunch
of clones from various friends
But they had to go to holland to make a seed company
Yeah, there was no there was no in the early 2000s. There was no way they were going to do an american-based seed company
How would they even get a hold of you?
Yeah, how would you get a hold of them? How would you not get busted?
Yeah, you know it was uh, it wasn't it wasn't very easy
And so we basically worked first through holland
And that's kind of why holland became the epicenter
Was it allowed it?
Yeah, right neville got lucky because he had balls
And a bunch of american breeders were fleeing prosecution
in america
and bringing him stuff
Right and you know
He got stuff from from greg and he got stuff from sam skunkman and he and he got stuff through mel frank and jorge
Cervantes and he got stuff from jim ortega
all these people
You know because that was the place that it could go
Yeah, and then when canada became the place it could go. That's where it all went
And then when california and oregon and washington started being the place that it could go. That's where it went. Yeah, and it really sucks
Because there's this artificial line between america and canada
That sort of kept our two cultures. It's made it a lot more difficult
to
Huh?
I'm, not gonna lie between 2007 and 2010 the fact that it was such a small market
It was fucking killer. He didn't have all kinds of competition
I mean the the best competition I had was like swerve and sub at the time and rascal, you know for americans and
Rascal was he was at the top of the the food chain when it came to reversals, but I mean
Sub and swerve, you know, yeah. No, I I mean there's there's there's an aspect of it, but it's like that
you know, um
People think that like people don't realize how long it took
To get to get democracy where some guy in a garage could have a 15 lighter or two or three four lighters or whatever
Yeah, and make some breeding and do a drop
Yeah and advertise the drop
and let uh and and let everyone know
That it was coming
You know, I was just thinking about something as far as drops go
Like I remember when that was a looked at very negatively if you're gonna do a drop meaning
You can hit one male to more than five or six plants
You were a shitty pollen chucker and that was like a mark of shame like drops were not a thing
And now that's the common accepted way this clone or this male crossed x amount of clones and that's the accepted way
But back in the day that was not you were not looked at favorably. I mean, that's what I did
So i'm not looking down on anyone for doing it. I was one of the people looked down on not
For doing those. I mean we we talked about it before but you know 12 or 14 years ago the four or five guys
Uh doing reversals were looked upon as cheating
Yeah, it's cheating you're ruining the fucking you are ruining genetics for good you're ruining the gene pool you're eliminating males
You're taking shortcuts. You're doing this fucked up thing. That shouldn't be done
You're trying to do shortcuts to make a quick buck
Yeah, um and it went from that and it was you know, I don't know
uh
Emery is a douchebag. I totally agree that he is. I think most people agree
He's a cunt that he is a he is a not an he is not a nice person. Um, yeah
by any means, um, you know, I mean but
You know, there's a there's a lot of people that uh, you know, you get to know him in weed and you're like, oh boy
Yeah, he's not a good kisser. But yeah, but there's an aspect where it's like like we've talked about it. What was it?
It was it was matt and rascal and hybe
And uh a couple other a couple other people doing reversals
Yeah, and it was a sea of of male female breeding
And now fast forward 12 years and it's completely reversed. Yeah, it's like 98
Femmes
And two percent of people doing reg breeding. Yeah, it's rare to see people do i've got a reg seed line drop
You know, what's really weird too for me like I I don't do that many. Um
Femme seed runs anymore. I really don't even though I sell the spray and i've been doing it a long time
People associate me with that. I I don't do them often
I don't do them very often at all and I prefer regular seed breeding because it's so much easier
It's like a fucking free pass to not fail
And uh, yeah, it's it's it's a totally different than people's uh,
Ideas of what fem breeding is how easy it is. It's uh, regular breeding is easy
in the sense of
Getting actual successful pollination
With real
With real not not that you're going to achieve your goals. That's still breeding
Yeah, that's a lot of there's still a lot of dead ends and failure in my opinion and sure, you know and all that but
But you know feminized breeding even
Even getting pollen and getting viable pollen. Um
You know, uh people actually
It's a crap. She people are saying don't you think the market's telling breeders what they want?
No, I don't necessarily I don't think that's it. I think that
Finding males is a bunch of work
And people started doing things where you can't get either one of these two elite cuttings
But i'll give you a hybrid of them. Yeah, you can't get tk by skittles
Yeah, you know you can't get either cut but you can buy a hybrid from me
And I think that's what started it and I think honestly, it's like people buy what's available
you know, um and uh, you know
reversals just you just took an elite cut and you crossed it to another elite you took an elite cut and you threw that on
15 or 20 other cuts and boom you've got a seed drop
Yep, and reversals actually really killed the the line breeding
You know companies used to we were going to talk about simon today tonight, right?
We're going to talk about sirius a little bit or whatever
Uh serious seeds they offered the same six lines for like fucking 15 years. Yeah 20 years
Yeah 20 years
You know, uh, since he seed bank, you know, uh when neville was there or whatever
Probably matt and I were looking at a bunch of the catalogs
They barely offered a new line for five or six years
Yeah, it was the same ass shit. And then in the late 90s, they added two or three more lines
Yeah back in the day. They expected you to work on your line and refine it. Hopefully
And you had those flagship strains. Yeah make those lines better over time
Now it's literally like I did this reversal I got x amount of seeds they're here until they're gone
I probably won't make them again. I gave it a name
Yeah, you know, but
That's it. There's no lines. You can't you can't hit up, you know, um, you could hit up serious seeds throughout the 90s and you
Could get ak-47 and you could get white russian and you could get chronic and you could get bubblegum and you could get
um, you know, whatever
Right, and it was just on it was just available
So let me let me use this point actually to tell a story and you'll like this story because it it has something to do
with you, so
I gave not so some seeds a while back and I I was pretty sure I remembered what I gave him, right?
um, I thought I gave him an old pack of ak-47
And I I was like man, when's he gonna pop those motherfuckers and I would bust his balls over it like man
Where's those ak-47 get him pop? He's like, I don't know what you're talking about
I'm like fucking not so right so I bust his balls for at least a year and a half two years two years
Every time I lost his fucking ancient seeds. I'm the old seed guy. I talk up ak like crazy all this different stuff
He sends them to me. Not only do I not do anything with them
But I fuck him over by like not actually cracking them or like you won't crack them
I just fucking ignored him and then I lost them and I keep telling him I don't have them
Yeah over and over again
And i'm like dude, I gave you these fucking seeds. What the fuck?
So anyways, I was busting his balls about him again, probably I don't know a month ago. Yeah
Something like that not that long
And someone I hadn't talked to for a long time skunk tech hits him up and is like hey, you know
I haven't talked to matt but let him know that I f2 those ak-47 seeds. He gave me so
Oh, I was so happy too because I called that up and I was like you're a dick dude. You gave him to someone else
And fucked me and told me that I fucking lost them and I didn't remember and i'm a stoner and fuck. Yeah. Yeah
You know you said I sent me rare shit from the 90s and I blew it off
Yeah, but in fairness he still does have super skunk and nevels hayes over there
But you know, there's a there's a yeah, I mean in fairness to me
Uh before 2017 there wasn't like biblical fires every year in my area. Yeah. Yeah
Yeah, don't mind the fires at all and so that that ruined a number of seed crops for me and gave me kind of some
PTSD
And all that do it. But yeah, I mean going back to going back to simon. I mean, can you imagine if
You know whoever you know for the last five years the swamp boys have offered the same six lines
Yeah
Matt's offered the same six lines. Caleb. It would be a nice offer the same 20
And they just remake them
And that's what people are doing
Yeah, and you get you're expected to work on all those lines and improve them, but you can because you're only offering half a dozen
Yeah now every seed drop is like fucking 20 things
Yeah, at least usually, you know, and they're all given a name and they're all given packaging and they're all given this and they're all sold
And that's that that's that
And you'll likely never see them again because the person's not going to remake them
And honestly the person the fucking the person isn't even usually growing them out anymore
Yeah
You know
So I will say just just to finish the story
I will give skunk tech some major props. He didn't even have to tell me that he had those he didn't have to tell
me that he did selections and
Made more and he certainly didn't have to tell not so to make sure I get them
You know or make sure I know about them to get them. So props to him for doing that
I was I was I was pretty fucking cool and uh, there are ak-47
Nf2 somewhere and they're uh based on the cherry stuff. So that's cool, too. What's sad about it is that in 1999?
Um, they changed the laws in holland in amsterdam and um, I should say the netherlands really because only two provinces
uh, our uh, our um our holland, but in the netherlands
They changed the seed laws where before seed making was legal
And they changed it to being illegal and most of the big producers in
In the netherlands got busted within a year or two of that change
Yeah, um and a lot of seed strains and a lot of lines that were available throughout the 90s
Then changed because parents were lost
Yes being dutch
Uh, and i'm not trying to be
Racist is the wrong word or whatever, but just culturally
The dutch are businessmen and they won't admit that they lost anything ever
Yeah
So if you ask ben or alan drunkers, they'll tell you they have all the same breeding parents that they've had since the 90s
Yeah, but we know that's not the case and it apparently simon admitted that he lost a couple of breeding parents
Yeah in his raid and collie mist and ak-47 were not the same
After yeah
We should also it should also be said and this is super fucking annoying for me, right but that
nevel and
Super sativa seed club kind of came first, right?
So they just told you where they were what they were doing
Yeah, they didn't have competition, right?
So nevel was like oh I got this nl from this person and I got this from this and this and I crossed them
And I called it nl by this
Yeah, right and and he gave you a whole bunch of information on lineage
Yeah, we can go through we've done it before but you can go through and most of where nevel got his stuff
We know the name of the person that gave it to him. We know where he got it
We know if he got it as a seed line or if he got it as a cutting
Right. We know all that shit
That's what I like simon and simon was really nice to me, right? But I don't fucking know. What's in ak-47
Ak-47
Yeah, I don't know exactly what's in collie mist. I've been hunting for 25 30 years
What the lineage on that stuff is? Yeah, and all the second wave of breeders, uh that came out
uh, sagmartha, syria seeds th seeds dutch passion all you know, uh
Um, what's his name? Um luke from paradise
Yes, what's in sensi star?
God only knows what's in what they all started hiding it
Yeah, they they hid where they got it from who they got it from what the mix was in right?
And so it started this massive guessing game of I love ak-47
Yeah, I have no idea what's in it
I would love for simon to one day be like i'm old and i'm just down to to say
You know what? I one thing I will say that's also interesting is from that old pack of seeds
And I believe they were sold it simon said according to the number on it
They were sold in 2000 which meant they could have been made in 98 99
What was interesting was that the cherry, you know was supposedly popping up
What do you say one in 500 or one in a thousand something?
A lot it took a lot to find it
In the three seeds it popped
Out of 10 from this old pack
Two were cherry
So I wonder if there's some sort of like viking in it
Um, which was a very cherry line floating around amsterdam at the time that a lot of people were using
um
But that's the first thing that that makes me think that and I think that's pretty interesting. It could you're you know
That uh something that I didn't know that it wasn't lost in the bus that simon's ex-wife killed them killed a couple plants out of
spite
Oh, and that it was it was it's common knowledge that he lost them. And I mean, I always heard that he lost them
Yeah
But you know, I assumed it was in the bust and he admitted that he lost one parent
But he never admitted that he lost more than that. Yeah, but he would just never give up the mix
Yeah
he just never you know that that's another thing that also really confused me is that
I don't understand why they would
Granted a lot of them were trying to steal each other's clones and steal each other's seeds or whatever
But if they were breeders, they would know that how expressions in cannabis work, you know
So they probably like I would think that they wouldn't be focused too much on well
We can't tell them the name or the the line that this came from because they'll get the same thing. I mean, well, no one
as you're aware
Uh neville's opinion was they stole most of it from him and didn't want to give him fucking credit
Yeah, I know. Yeah, he thought everything was his though. No matter what. No, i'm not saying it is i'm not saying it's true
Yeah, but for whatever reason
Um, you know like yeah, what's in chronic?
What's what's what's collie missed
What's what's what's ak-47? What are the parents? Yeah, where'd he get the parents who gave him the parents?
Yeah, you know
Um all that right. You just don't know
Yeah, you know they've never come out and said those things came out in the mid 90s
Yeah, so we're talking 25 years plus of him being secretive
Yeah, you know and yet neville had an ego and he thought the whole fucking scene was based on his shit
Yeah, and some of it was but some of it was his ego, you know, I still think he renamed afghani one
I mean, I know you do
You know, i'm always i'm always going to push that theory and it's based on nothing
But i'm still going to push it just because I can I mean one of the things that I learned about uh,
Someone just asked what I believe in collie missed
um, I was told by some guys in amsterdam that um,
You know that the mother plant was this thing called the mango
And it was made by this guy that I don't want to name his name or whatever
But it was it he was the guy that came up with it and that was at least half of it
um, and I I see people, uh, uh,
You know, there's people want to talk about whatever but I mean the thing is is that when I went over there
And when I started going over there in the mid 90s
There was already a bunch of dudes that were middle-aged that all had beef with one another
Yeah, and obviously neville and sam had a bunch of beef with one another and they sniped at each other for years
Um, and so there's an aspect there's an aspect too where it's like sometimes people just didn't want to give other people credit
Yeah, they didn't want it to come from them
Yeah, you know, they didn't want it to be that way. They didn't want it. They didn't want to be like
Oh, well, I got that from homie
Yeah, because homie was a dick to them
In their mind
You know, and then they had beef and so then there was politics
You can look at the politics of 90s amsterdam and you can fast forward 30 years and it goes on today in california
Yeah
It's very common
so this is this is one of the
old pictures of afghani one
That has a lot of similar traits to what you will see in in things like super skunk or even chem 91
And that's one of the the things that originally put me onto that
And seeing and the la afi cut that we had that was a afghani number one selection homie just said, uh
Kali mist was originally called western winds
Western winds was one of my favorite all-time
uh
Cannabis name cambodian cambodian. That's what they said, but I don't fucking know. It's supposedly when they were at cerebral together
It was the same thing
And then they broke off tony called his version western winds
And simon called his kali mist
But they were the same thing
Yeah, they were the or they I mean maybe they maybe they made different breeding selections or choices, but they were the same
The same origin for the most part. I will say tony. Tony has been ridiculously transparent and open with me
When it comes to asking any questions, he's the only
Dutch dude who who had a seed bank from back then that never like flinches when I ask him something
He's always been super open even if it's not like
Even if he doesn't know the answer he'll tell you well, I don't really know this came
I bought it in bulk from xyz and that's what it is. And that's all we know
He's been really fucking cool about it. So I got to give props to him for that
You know, I mean maybe maybe he would say what it was
But maybe if it came from simon or he had be it for some guy he didn't like he wouldn't say it
Yeah, because that goes on today like people don't want to give other people credit if they don't like the person
you know, or they feel like they got jacked on a I mean even like somebody like sam like
If it wasn't for mel frank, uh, I don't you know talking about it years later
You wouldn't know that afghani one and durban poison came through mel frank. Yeah, and he gave him to sam
Yeah, you know sam showed up in amsterdam with him
You know. Yeah
And uh, you know and then you know, tony tony has you know, and then once a line splits
Maybe different breeders make different selections
Yeah, they lean it towards one direction or another, you know
They lose them with adam dunn and and the bubble gum and like the different ways simon worked bubble gum supposedly and all that
Yeah, I mean I know that I know I you know, I didn't I didn't know until tonight that that uh,
simon's ex or whatever killed killed the cut but
Simon's collie mist in the 90s was much more sativa leaning
And then around 99 2000 it got shorter and thicker and more
More indica more afghan
And it lost some of the ethereal qualities that I liked a bunch about it
You know, that's one that i'd really like to reproduce and we have the old seeds to do it
But I just it's one of those ones that like i'd spend money and time reproducing it and they would just sit there
You know and nobody grew up because collie mist really isn't one that people talk about
You know the average grower still in the u.s. It's phenomenal
There's phenos in western winds and you can look
In western winds and collie mist especially in like some mid to late 90s
High times cannabis cups like the glossy pictures they would have in those in those things
um, and uh
you know and um, you know, so
They uh, they're those are really nice, you know, yeah
and um
You know, and you know, then then he comes out and says it's kind of true
I don't mean that like sam took a bunch of credit for it
I just mean that it was like in the list of stuff that that mel that you know that he brought to amsterdam
Yeah, and he didn't obviously say well
I got these two things from these guys and I got these from these guys and here's the three hayes brothers names that I got
These seeds like, you know sketchy back then. Yeah, you still can't get that shit out of him
You still can't get that out of him. All I'll tell me is that i'm wrong about the h3. You won't tell me what?
One day, you know one day
I mean, it's uh, one thing about weed is that people are opinionated
Yes, and it takes a certain kind of person to take the risks that we all we all take and the various things that go
On and you know, we get beef, you know, yeah and all that stuff. And so
Um, but it's it's also true that a lot of weed is a flash in the pan
So it might be around for two or three or four years five years and then all of a sudden it's gone or it's not
There in the same it's not there in the same in the same category anymore. Yeah, it doesn't exist
Um, and there's some there's some really good versions of aka that still float around
Um, there was an aka in colorado that our good buddy working men and I talk about all the time
That was a huge yielding beast of a sativa
Um, and it smelled exactly like sandalwood did
pure sandalwood turps
Uh matt worked with an ak version that had strong cherry liqueur
Cherry and then lemon I had a lemon one too. That was awesome
And then I had the rc cola fino that used to go around skunk magazine and it smelled like flat cola
It was it was pretty uncanny
So that that's a pretty wide terp range in the ak line and and and interesting and unique terps
And a lot of them had some pretty god some pretty good highs with them, too
You know
So that was a really simon didn't have a lot of strains
But you know the only the only strain that I think he had that was absolute bunk and I apologize if you hear this
Simon is chronic
Yeah, I grew out a bunch of chronic and it was big and midsy and ugly
and I never found anything worthwhile in it, but
His bubble gum and his ak and his white russian and his cali mist and all that that was all real nice weed
I think white russian is totally underrated too from all white russian is super underrated strain
And it was one of his standards for a long time and it was killer weed. Yeah, there was some really nice phenos of it
You know, I wish I knew I wish just for my weed nerdism or whatever. I wish I knew
You know, I wish I knew what ak-47 was
Yeah, like what is it?
I think if we're getting these cherry liqueur phenotypes is from hexobutyrate not a turp
But do you think that I mean because we know that during that time there was one real strong cherry kicker
That was being used in amsterdam
um
Which was the either the holland's hope which was a version of the viking
Or just using viking and they were being used widely at that time. So I I
i've never
Now that I know that it's just like and how how commonly it occurs it almost seems like it would have to be in the
We have chimera and crybaby both telling us that the cherry is is is uh from uh
It's not a turp, you know, yeah
You know, it's it's theols and all the various esters and all the various things that lead to aromas
Uh, that's not an aldehyde. That's not that's not matinize. Uh 14 necessarily
There's a lot of learning that I could do over there that would expand my knowledge
um, but
I would love if he told me what was in it
Yeah
And it would be it would be really neat just to know because it's one of the all-time great strains
Yeah, the super cool strain and it's neat that there's um
It's neat that there is uh
maybe here's something that we've talked about and that most people don't don't think about too much, but
Um, we're getting close to the end, but i'll throw it out there
yeah, and maybe this is something that like a chimera could chime in on or whatever, but
Um, what would happen? Let's say you have two ak-47s
Or you know or two nl5 hazes or something like that from the 90s
And you're pretty damn sure that they are what they are that they're the exact same
Era, they're the exact same parents. They're just two different two different plants, but from the same seed line
Yeah, if you reverse one on to the other
Do you get a feminized seed line?
Because it's not an outcross and it's not an s1
So, so give me the situation again, let's say you took uh, you know, um,
uh
A cherry ak and crossed it to the colorado sandalwood ak. Okay
It's not an s1
And it's not an outcross
No
Right. That's when we make up words like in cross
That's when we make them up because cannabis is very unique and we got to make up our own fucking words
I just mean you can do it. You can do it with anything. You could take any any anything that you know are sisters
Yeah, and that came from the same parents
Right because most people that are doing reversals
99.99 of reversals are either s1s or outcrosses
Yeah, we would I mean, I know me and caleb refer to them as f2rs
Just when we talk so we know what we're talking about, but I don't think there's any standard term
Because there's a way where it's like, you know part of the reason why we do s1s
Uh, one of the reasons why we do it in cannabis at least is because often there's only one pheno
There's only one living cut of a certain line left
And in order for you to look within the genetics of the line and see what else might be in there
You have to cross it to itself
Yeah, we would make normal lines out of a lot of these strains had we a male
Yes, or had we but if you have two females
And you're sure they're the exact same thing
Then you could breed two sisters together
Yeah, and it wouldn't be inbreeding as much because they would have two different genetic profiles
Yes, right. It's not you're not in you're not inbreeding to the extent than an s1 would be no
No, you're not you're not isolating traits still so you take you take a sandalwood smelling
Ak47 and you cross it onto the cherry
And you cross it onto the cherry ak47
Yeah, and you you know, and then you have you have a you have a a feminized seed line maybe that's what uh bitter did with
The p91 s1s took two different p91 s1s and crossed them together to create his neck
But the difference is is that those are two s1s crossed together
Yeah, i'm talking about like two sisters from the same exact hybrid
You see i'm saying
That's what it was though two sisters from the same because if you have an s1 if you have two sisters from an s1
There's one parent
And s1 has one parent right there's two identical parents so the genetics is essentially one parent
But if you take two sisters from a regular line
Right
Yeah, then it's two parents
You know
And it's like if you like for instance, I got multiple daughters you look at my daughters. They're not two peas from the same pod
Yeah, obviously, you know they have some of they got you know, they look very different from each other
Yeah, you know my wife and I's genes popped in different ways in that regard
so you're referring specifically to an f1 hybrid and then using
two
Sisters from that f1 hybrid not from a reversal. Yeah, necessarily like let's say for instance you took
Um, you know, we can't get we can't guarantee this but let's say you took c5
Yes and crossed it to cuban black and you were sure you know that you're you had two phenos of nl5 haze
Yeah, and you knew that the mom was nl5 and the dad was haze and both it was just two phenos in the same thing
Right and you crossed those you reversed one onto the other
Yeah, that's probably one of the most rare things in breeding
Because then you'd have a feminized line, but it wouldn't be an s1
Be an s1
I mean the only difference between that and the feminized version would be that the feminized version would have less
variation
Because there wasn't an additional
Line
at the
What we're calling the parental level, but that's what I just mean in the sense that so let's say you take let's say you make
A cherry ak s1
Yeah, you're going to only have the gene pool that's within that specific
That specific plant
It would be going in that direction for that specific. Yeah, but if you had if you had a sister of hers
Yes, there's something different even though they're sisters. She probably has a different a slightly different genetic makeup
So it would be a sibling cross
Yeah, but it's almost never done because we almost never have to it wouldn't be nearly as inbred
Yeah, it wouldn't be nearly as inbred as a as a reverse cross and you'd probably you'd probably get like a a lot wider
expression within the seats
You know what's interesting though? What you're describing is almost exactly what dj did with blueberry
two
Things that were were from the same
Parentage to totally opposite different expressions and constantly recross them from a small population
Each generation, I mean i'm not saying that like in a perfect world if you had hundreds of seeds
That's the direction that you you should go in. Oh, no. No, but i'm just saying that like is a method
There's there's an aspect where it's like if all you have in the line is one living living example
Then you all you can do is self it
Yeah, but if you got two
Then you could widen the gene pool just slightly
Yeah and have and have a grip of seeds that had a slightly wider gene pool
Than you could get with s1
Yeah, but I think like if you keep like archive is just saying you he did it with moonbow 99 and moonbow 112
Yeah
I think if you do that and you keep doing it in successive generations, which you get is a lot of mutants and weirdness without
necessarily the the
Narrow down variation. I was just thinking in terms of like 90s weed
Or various things where you might get lucky and you might have one or you might have two or even three phenos that might exist
Yeah
You see them?
Yeah, like where it wouldn't be that that would probably be
I don't know
You know, it's just something that's not often done
But if there's two phenos from the same line, you might be able to figure it out
But it's almost never done
Think of somebody think of somebody that has it often
It's like it's almost like back crossing it's not often you don't see back
You don't see back crosses to males often done
But it's an interesting thing. You know what I mean? It has its place
Yeah, I just in terms of and I mean in terms of most genetic preservation. We're like super lucky
If one pheno of an old line survives
Oh, yeah for sure
You know, but in the case of in the case of nl5 by hayes c
There's probably three or four or five that survived
Yeah a lot more than that. I think if we really knew for sure. I think there'd be a lot more
You know, and so there's potential where you could you could you know, you could I don't know
I mean, it's just interesting in that in that regard. Yeah project theme monster. Those are not siblings
Um, let's see. We don't know for sure
They're not fucking siblings. I don't think so
Yeah, but we've parents at the end
We hoped that we hoped that that phyllos and some other and some other genetic groups would be able to prove these things
And it has not happened
Yeah, no phyllos got everybody's money because they promised they would be able to show what was a grandparent. What was a child?
What was a what was a daughter? What was a mother?
And not not the case
And we're still going to do a full episode on that eventually
um
on why
Why we were able to prove that it was a broken system
uh effectively prove it but um, yeah, you're gonna give it a little bit of time so people don't get
Too butt hurt and sue and all that shit
you know, but it's it's just one of those things where uh,
Uh between know whether males or females are responsible
There's no there's no, you know, there's a lot of there's no way it works like that. Um
because because cannabis for a long time has been
um
Well, I just I was just going to say that
um cannabis for a long time has been deprived of science or the science aspect of uh of breeding
Uh, most of it is observational by people
still to this day there are some people that um
Uh, there are some people that are doing that are doing work
uh that are using a lot more uh scientific methods and things like that, but
Um, it's rare still yeah, most cannabis breeding is observational
Um, and so it's hard to know males and females
Um, you know, we just don't have we just we just we're up until 10 fit 10 years ago or something like that
We were mostly denied labs
Yeah, we're mostly denied access
Um to what you know, normal breeders would be able to use all the time
Yeah, so I want to do a um giveaway before we're done since we're almost at two hours
And I actually thought of something to do so you didn't have to um
So like we used to do back in the back in I don't know a year or two ago
I picked out
um
a phrase there's going to be a blank spot in this phrase and whoever comes up with
Who we all agree is the funniest
Answer gets the bomb threat bubble hawaiian lights hybrid
Um, it's one of the more expensive ones. So I wanted to get it out there so people can uh, yeah
Anyways, so we have a few different ones. Let me see
Okay, here we go here it is you guys if you want to participate you're going to have to fill in the blank
Rub a dub dub blank in a tub who has the best answer rub a dub dub your answer in a tub
Your answer in a tub who has the best answer
Oh, man
I know this one should be nice and creative rub a dub dub blank in a tub
Rub a dub dub dink in a tub 12 vc in a tub these nuts is always a great response
Lesbian fiddling
Tug in a tub sub in a tub. Oh, that's a good one because that that did exist
It did exist
Yeah, I might have to pin this one so we remember who did sub in a tub to see if someone could beat him
Let's see pin. Okay. Let's see what you got those pictures of sub in the tub were were not cool
Oh, I remember when I made the the now i'm not gonna say it since he's no longer with us. Yeah
They just weren't they just you know
Pre 79 rks seeds in the tub
Sub in the tub
Oh my god, yeah hilarious
Sub in his camera in a tub. Oh my god
I mean the thing about sub in the tub is that it rhymes too, you know, so yeah, I know it's pretty not only
It's it's it's creative. It has a whole thing. You know, yeah, I don't want peabody in the tub either sub should win
I forgot to wear my p-bud shirt. I just got another p-bud shirt for my buddy
Forgot it
Yeah, so yeah, I think I think we're gonna have to go
With try grown send me send me a dm after this you get the the hawaii the bomb threat of hawaiian lights
So yeah, it's it's it's it's
It can't beat it. So we're almost we're almost to two hours. So we'll do our normal little thing
Yeah, as always we're down to totally talk a lot of what we talked about tonight was suggestions from people on our discord
Asking us to chat about certain things
Um, that's a great way to get what you want talked about talked about
Is yeah reach out to us either on ig or joining our discord which matt always explains at the end
Um, but we're always down to
Chat about things
Some episodes are kind of formal in the sense that we have a whole theme that we want to go off of
Um, and some of them are uh, some of them are are are a little bit more loose and uh interactive
But always hit us up, you know, yeah, me up. Hit me up on ig hit me up on our discord
You know
right now
Okay
And yeah, we'll send you those
Um, if you want to join us
now. Okay, so you can go to Google, type in Breed Your Cynic at Patreon, you can join
us on the Discord. I think there's some fights coming up in a second. We just had some cool
fights last week that we hang out, talk shit to each other and watch the fights, which
has nothing to do with cannabis, but hey, whatever, it's something else to do. You also
get access to my whole catalog collection in PDF form, which I highly recommend if you
are a part of the Patreon. If you don't know about that, go check them out. It's not just
the old SeedBank and Scentsy catalogs. There's a lot of really random, rare ones. So yeah,
Breed Your Cynic at Patreon, go check out RiotSeedCo.com. Hopefully soon we'll start
having more of the podcast show up. We might split it off to a new one. I don't know how
it's going to go, but we'll see, but we'll have the audio form of the podcast going back
up very soon. Yeah, go check out SpeakEasy SeedBank. They've helped us along the way
with getting the podcast in audio form up till this point. So go check them out, support
them. And yeah, that's it.
Once again, Friday night. Thank you all for your time very much. It's always super appreciated.
We like talking shit about weed. And so we'll be here again next Friday night. Pleasure.
Enjoy.
Late. Oh yeah, I highly recommend you guys go watch what fucking Shu said. Yeah, it's
a good one. It's a good one.
