Welcome to Breeder Syndicate 2.0 where we explore the history of a clandestine scene.
Researching everything from cannabis strain history, old smuggling tales from
the first-person perspective, to breeding science and news on current subculture.
I'm your host Matthew and I'll occasionally be joined by my homie NotSoDog,
breeder and grower from Mendocino, to speak on these subjects and sometimes
interview other participants. Our goal is to document this history before it's
written by corporations and others who just weren't there. Let's start righting
some wrongs. Welcome to the underground.
We joined this conversation already in progress and it kind of ends abruptly too.
So yeah, let's get to it.
Nice keeping.
Alright dude, how you been?
Good, it's a little bit earlier for you guys there.
Yeah.
NotSoDog, you look like you just got out of bed.
That's what Matt just told me, but I've been up since 6am. I don't know what the fucking deal is.
He's lying, he's rolled out of bed.
Yeah, so, let's see. I just hit record and I figure we're just going to have a conversation and just like go through seeds and just see where it leads us on conversations.
Yeah, okay. Yeah, and I kind of split the seeds while you can record. Are you recording now?
Yeah.
Okay, so I did, did you want to do your intro thing or?
Nah, it's okay.
So, I did kind of go through the seeds and I figured there was certain ones you might be interested in.
There's certain ones you probably don't really care much about.
They were, again, I never classified myself as a breeder.
I was a seed maker.
Yeah.
I was a seed maker for everything, right, except for a couple little projects I did for myself where I was looking for certain characteristics for myself and for my crew.
Sure.
And then also in turn for the general public because I honestly think they would benefit from what I was chasing.
Sure.
And then some of the stuff I found is just, you know, somebody who's in Amsterdam, they brought back a few packs of this, a few packs of that.
We grew them out, crossbred, put F1s out on the market for I think it was six seeds.
I sent you some of those catalogs, right?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Dude, those are so cool.
Six seeds for 25 bucks or something like that.
Yeah.
Right, just to kind of, and I'll send you some more stuff like Chris, who was the founder of the Great Canadian Hemporium.
And Hemp Nation.
So, again, one of the earlier, I'm going to, I go out there and say, I think the first seed bank in Canada that openly sold seeds on the market kind of thing.
Yeah, yeah.
Even though it was just through retail and our website, or his website.
Yeah.
And it was, you know, we're going to go back to like 95.
Everything had to be, we didn't have any kind of this Wix or everything.
He was doing the entire website through raw code.
Okay, yeah, I remember doing that.
It was quite the process to do this.
So, it was pretty nice to, you know, reconnect.
Yeah, 95's early.
95's early for HTML.
Yeah, it was.
And this, again, this is going to bring up what we spoke about the very first time we spoke, because I called my Black Domino 95, my Widow 98.
That's right.
And then we started looking into it with Shawnee Kids, and he was just like, nah, Widow, Domino didn't come out until 96.
So, I was like, that's fucked up that I would mislabel that, because I've literally been calling that since 95.
And so, I talked to Chris about it, and I was like, this is a seed catalog that I remember it in, what was on the cover, and we were able to pull out one of the old Hemp Nation seed menus, and there's Black Domino.
And it was in, this was from May of 96.
96, yep.
Which means I would have bought those seeds and sprouted them most likely in late 95 in order to grow them out enough to...
Reproduce them.
To reproduce.
You know, what would happen often is they would release new lines in and around the Cannabis Cup.
Right.
Which was back then in, you know, the last week of November.
Yeah, November, yeah.
So, like, there could be a thing where you're like, oh, it's, you know, I got it in 95.
Right.
Right? But it was released on November 27th, 1995.
So, it literally came out like a month before the, you know, the year.
This was in the 95 catalog, yeah?
Yeah, that's what we, we found the catalog, it said 95.
So, the website says 96.
So, then I was thinking about that also because most of the people traveling from here to Amsterdam were going for the cup.
Yeah.
So, that's when they're buying all the seed.
So, they would have brought the seed back to us in, like you say, early December 95.
Yeah, I mean, like in the Jack Herrera, for instance, I mean, obviously, like 95, they had that whole themed cup based on him.
Yeah.
They did the worldwide release of the Jack Herrera line at the cup.
Right.
So, it was one of those times, like for the Dutch or whatever, where you could get a lot of free publicity.
There was already all the cameramen, you know, and all the ad guys and all the people that were going to write stories were already there.
So, you'd get a lot of free press on the new, new.
Right.
So, I kind of viewed it as like that was at least in the 90s era, it was pretty traditional for them, you know, and then on top of that too, maybe they had a line that was like that was about to come out, but they'd enter it into the cup.
And then it would win something and then the seeds would be immediately available.
Right.
And you'd see those like super glossy, multi-page centerfolds and high times.
Right.
And it was all about driving interest.
Right.
And it was a business and stuff.
And, you know, it kind of this kind of brings me to my other topic before we really get into the bag of beans here is, you know, I was talking with Matt too, like I had some some friends reach out and kind of question some of the things that I was the way I was remembering them.
And that's what got me thinking about that.
The BD 95.
And it took me months, you know, for Chris to dig out some of our old Hemp Nation stuff to see.
Well, no, here's the BD on that.
Right. So, and what I was trying to explain to, you know, people that have questions about how some of us recall certain stories or certain events.
And I think not so you talked about this a few times in the past where a lot of people were like secretive and they didn't want to share the stories.
Right. And then there was people like me that wanted to share the stories, don't mind sharing the stories.
And if somebody remembers it differently, then at least here we're giving them a platform or giving I'm trying to invoke the conversation.
You know, don't text me on my cell phone and say, hey, listen, what you said was wrong.
Right. And if that's the case, then correct me and I'll come online or whenever I talk to anybody in newspaper, magazine, whatever.
I'll correct it kind of thing. But I can only regurgitate how I remember thing.
And I don't you know, if I mispronounce somebody's name or I have a date wrong or, you know, like the story that we were talking about last time with the seeds that we used in Switzerland.
Yeah, this is a story. So that's why I was asking if you guys know anybody that was working with Neville back then that could collaborate or confirm that that story would be great because this is what I've heard.
And you know what, if I misspeak or something like that, there's when you air this, there's a whole bunch of comments people can comment, correct us.
So we know that we can change certain things. Don't get upset.
You know, I mean, it did. You know, I didn't have a riff get established because it's but it did bring up some, you know, conversation.
Sure. You know, I got a heated conversation, but it got like, well, no, that's not how it happened.
Well, then tell me how you remember it. I'll tell you how I remember it.
And we can get to figure it out. We're out there kind of Matt.
Matt and I deal with this all the time. And it is a good it is a good time to chat about it because we're always open to like someone remembering something different or new information comes to light.
Most of the time we talk, it's more like this is the best that we know right now. Right. Right.
And memories are. And I know.
Literally, I was going to say, especially in the case there for a brief second.
Yeah. Memories. Memories are funny things, you know, and we'd like to say that memories are etched in stone and stuff like that.
But, you know, like they're just not. And then you start thinking back to like twenty five, thirty years ago or even 20 years ago or whatever.
And, you know, what what's real. Right. And that and that that's definitely part of it, because, I mean, we have there's certain stories where it's like people get all upset about, you know, one camp or another.
But the fact of the matter is, is there was two or three guys there and they don't agree on all parts. Right.
So if they don't agree on all parts and they were indisputably the people involved. Yeah.
How does the rest of you figure out which which tale you want to believe? Right. Right.
And that's what it festers in us, like, you know, the story and I regurgitated stories numerous times. Hence why I wrote a book, because I put it out there.
So if somebody does remember something different than, you know, sorry, it's in print now.
But, yeah, I had this conversation for twenty, thirty years prior to. And this is how it's always been told kind of thing.
And, you know, I put it as especially with cannabis, because, listen, when we get super high and we have conversations or events happen, sometimes we might not remember them that well, period, let alone correctly.
But, you know, we look at our elders, elders that before the Internet, before newspapers, before, you know, magazines, before we would, you know, there was just elders sitting in circles.
When I did went to a rainbow gatherings with the camp we stayed with was Granola Funk and they would set up a stage and it's the rainbow gathering.
There's no newspapers going around. It was if you wanted to learn the history of the Rainbow Trail, you go to Granola Funk every night at six o'clock or eight o'clock and there'd be a stage set up, which is built from, you know, logs we find on the trees we find on the ground.
And the elders would tell the story. Yeah.
So with cannabis, because it was so secretive, because of the laws being so part of who said what. Yeah, it became secretive and the stories do get muffled and the stories do get jumbled.
So, again, I invite people to post stuff if they hear something you, I or somebody else says, even if it's out of another podcast or you read it in a magazine article.
If you have two cents at it, because absolutely everybody's two cents will add up to a dollar someday.
I mean, for sure. We kind of look at it too. Like, you know, that whole vibe that you just that you were just, you know, speaking of is kind of the way we look at things where like it's basically just like it's like a lot of these chats and stuff are conversation starters.
And we absolutely welcome like more info or differing points of view or tidbits that get added that like add that get weaved in. I find that like the people that get really huffy about it generally are the ones where like they're making money off their reputation or they're selling seeds or they get locked into one particular historical tale.
Right. That suits them. And then they end up having to defend that one.
Right. And I think, you know, I think there's a lot of damage done in this industry because like you're saying, when it comes business, you know, and business interferes with friendships, which has happened numerous times in this in this the movement, again, that got developed by the industry.
I have some really close friends that were part of the very beginning of this that do speak out when the right time comes. Right. But a lot of them are just, you know, a lot of them are weathered by this by this industry now.
I took a shitload of heat when I joined in Diva. Right. When I was in Diva with with these two business suits, fucking shiny shoes, motherfuckers that, you know, people are like, oh, you're selling out, you're selling out. Right. Wait a second. Is it selling out? Yes, I am going to get paid quite, quite well. But what else am I supposed to do here?
Like, if you're not happy with the direction that the ship is going, going from the sidelines means jack shit. That's not you're not making a change. Get on the fucking boat and help steer it in the right direction. If you're just bitching from the sidelines. Sorry, I don't I don't fucking got any time for you kind of thing. Get on the fucking boat and and correct us.
So and help us steer it into the fucking direction that you believe it should be in. And because some of these people are all deep friends of mine, I invite that I would love for them to come together, even though I know some of them can't because of outside of this, the cannabis community. Yeah. That that that weld will never will never happen. But we need to kind of keep this these stories this journey alive.
And the only way to do it is if the elders regurgitate how they understand it. Exactly. There's there's a lot of elders in here. I talked to Doc sumac, right? Roddy heading, right? He's from this area. He wrote one of the first grow guides grow your own stone. Oh, grow your own stone. That's right. Yep. Super fucking nice guy. Super motherfucker. Right? Still not in the industry. He's in the hemp and you know, still, you know, he's still alive.
You know, still, but, you know, I would sit and just listen to him. You know, I wanted to hear his version from the 50s and the 60s and the 70s. Yeah, guys, there is nothing like he wrote it and grow your own stone high times was out in the in the 70s. And some stories got out but not now today. This fucking podcasters in this websites, there's so much out there that we could, you know, fill in all these blanks.
And yeah, maybe I am wrong in some of the stories because I said, but this is how I remember it. And please correct me if I if I'm misunderstanding the, the, you have the balls to be wrong, and to stand up and like, you know, remember something wrong and then take accountability. A lot of people don't even have the balls to do that. And they just like to point and I wish they would stand up to it's not really my end of things. But Matt, Matt, Matt loves like, like murder shows and murder mysteries and all that stuff.
And one of the things that they've discovered is one of the absolute worst kinds of testimony is eyewitness testimony. Right? Because the memory is so funny. And it can and it can change over time. And it can be influenced over time. And you can be convinced and have your memory change. And the other part of it that's important for people to realize is that, you know, when you know, this might sound a little grandiose or whatever.
But if you're involved in any kind of like interesting thing in history, most people don't realize they're involved in it at the time. Right? Like nobody, we didn't realize when we were all younger messing around with this stuff that people were going to want to know granular details. Right? Of some of these things. Right. You know, and that that plays a role too. It's not like we all knew that, hey, we should really document this as we're going.
In fact, as you were saying, with the with the underground nature of things, you know, notes were a bust.
Yeah, yeah, exactly. You didn't want to keep it.
He went opposite and you kept a million pictures.
I always kept notes and I recorded things. So if I was involved, there was really good notes. If I wasn't involved, and it's just I'm going by what I've seen and what I've heard, then you know what, it's part of part of law.
Like if you you want to, you know, you want to ice the goalie kind of thing, where you want to prolong how long to you put a witness on the stand. If you're the defense, yeah, because you want that person's memory to get foggy. You want that person's memory to maybe be influenced by other things or, you know, remember the gist of the story, but maybe not the details.
And like you say, like all these stories we have are little grains. And for the longest time, we were playing in a small sandbox. Now we're on beaches of endless grains of sand where there's so much more out there.
And there's so many people involved that, you know, the few of us that were sitting in that little sandbox, we only remember so much. And we're going back to the, for me, the 80s. I started growing up in the 80s.
I talk about that too, all the time where it was like, I kind of feel like at least for like America for a while there, like hippies and the Grateful Dead and that kind of highway. It was the primary path in cannabis.
It's not anymore, but for an era there, you know, like hippie circles and groups of friends and all. And then on top of that, people don't realize that like you could go meet somebody on Dead Tour and chat and you were somewhat anonymous because they didn't know where you lived.
They didn't know who you were, really. They weren't from your hometown. You weren't going to get raided necessarily. And so, you know, people would bring their weed on the tour and stuff. And so like there's, you know, now it's like you, as you were saying, like weed's a super highway and like that's just one lane.
Yeah. You know, there's a bunch of other lanes now. And with the Grateful Dead thing too, like the Shakedown Street was where the stories, that's where the elders sat and told the stories to the next generation. But there was a lot of us out there. Now I wasn't on Dead Tour, but you know, obviously lots of good friends. Not only would I, when I did my travels up and down the East Coast, I didn't just bring the pot. I brought the seed too.
Because for me, I like this type of cannabis, right? And this seed grows this type of cannabis. Well, crossing international lines or on Dead Tour, chances of DEA or anybody like that infiltrating Shakedown or something like that, you don't want to travel with fucking large amounts of pot.
So when you find somebody that's like-minded, that has good pot and has the right vibe or the right stories, you pass that seed along to that person and say, hey, listen, when Dead comes through here next year, I'm going to call you up or we're going to find each other, you know, bring me some of this, you know, and you can spread that seed and give me some of your seed. And if when you're in Buffalo or something like that, or you're in Orlando, look me up, I'll be around.
I'm going to have your seed. Right? So we do that not only just for the story, but for the ability for us to share in genetics, but also not, you know, for safety reason almost. Basically to, you know, pass out cuttings. I went through a phase where I was like, I don't want anybody to really have my cuttings and stuff like that. I'm a little worried about it. And we were talking about that with the moms.
I had at the end of my mom garden, I was somewhere close to 150 moms.
Yeah, that's a lot.
Over at least 100 of them I had for years. And I and probably 30 of them I've had for decades.
Yeah.
That I've kept and I was always like, yeah, you know, and there's something else I think I sent you in a in a private message was, you know, when I was doing that, I don't really want to have anybody go I was like, they're going to bastardize it, they're going to fuck it up, it's going to kill the name, shit like that.
Well, then my that I lost that mom.
Well, I didn't give it to anybody. Right.
So then I was like, Okay, you know what, I got this guy Yoda, I'm going to give him my genetics, you know, and he keeps him I keep my keep two of every fucking plant. Right.
That means, and when I have 130 150 plants, that means I have 300 moms, not just flowering 300 moms. Yeah, but your numbers and shit like that, you know, yeah, that comes into play.
So what I would give them out to different people. And I what I did learn also is never tell you know, grower a that you gave it to grow be as well. Right.
What's that? Why?
Grow bees like, well, you gave it to grow a so I just killed it. I didn't have space and have time. And then I'm just only true.
I'm like, well, a fucking just did the same fucking thing. And now I have that fucking strange. And I lost like I lost my chemo from 96. Yeah. To that. And I'm just like, and I found some chemo seeds.
You know, I don't know which ones they are the UBC or again, I think there's an Ottawa cut. Again, called chemo, was it the fucking chemo? You know, in our seed fucking catalog, there's a story that the chemo was developed to fight cancer. And in, I think they said, Ontario.
Yeah, where the fuck that story come from? It's written in the nation fucking catalog. So I was just like, really, like, I did hear about g 13. You know, I heard, you know, there are certain medical strains being grown in California that made it up here. And, you know, and then all like m 39, that whole list of the M's and stuff like that, like, there's people out there that know the truth of where this came from.
And it could have been like my purple power plant. My purple power plant is not a power plant. Yeah, right. It's purple power plant because it was a cutting given to me. No guy had no idea what it was old time farmer just not smoking this strain. We've been growing for the last fucking 20 years or 10 years. And I grew it out. It grew just like a power plant structure. It was fucking went purple. I don't know what to call it. So I call it triple P purple power plant.
People like, Oh, yeah, I love power plants. I will use this as a power plant. Like, at least I'll be honest about it. I just named it this because it fit the description. It was easy for me to remember. Was that the PPP that went around Canada? I don't know. There was because there was a PPP that went around that people called like pure power plant purple power plant.
It might have like I did this I named that probably 12 at least 12 years ago, probably more maybe no longer than that before I was married. So probably 15 years ago. You know, yeah. And it was just again, at this time, again, I was spreading the wealth I mean, you and my members, all my members at the London Compassion Society have access to all my genetics.
We don't pull back from them never have. So if they wanted it, or they ended up with it, whoever they gave it to, you know, good on them. Luckily, some I got some strains back that way. I was like, you know, we lost it, put it on our website. Hey, were you growing this strain? And they say I wasn't but I gave it to my brother in law, I can ask him, he still has it. Get it back to us.
You know, the whole thing about keeping our seeds protected and, you know, and like, again, when we get into the seeds here, which we probably should soon is I want, I, you know, it's gonna piss people off, but I want to see genetics rescued. Yeah, because some of these people don't have these genetics, you know?
Yeah, I mean, as a collector myself, like the hardest thing, it's really easy to spread things out. When like, they're having their moment in the sun, and they're popular. Yeah, people can make money off them. The hard part is like, hey, I'm going to give you this, hold on to it. Keep it in your mom room, even when it's unpopular. And it's maybe just head stash for you. And nobody else wants it. Right? Because everybody wants it when it's had to has its moment in the sun.
Right.
This is what's on coming next. And this is what's after that. And we would have to figure out, okay, well, this strain is one of the popular sellers, we want to grow it every other harvest, or every third harvest, depending on how many lights we were going to dedicate to it. But we would have to, you know, especially with, you know, I think we have we keep at least 25 to 30 strains on our menu. And we produce all of them. Right?
So we would have to predict when that strain we think is going to get down low enough that we never run out of it. So I would have to predict I had literally almost two years of of a list of what I was going to be growing, because I had to. So we didn't run out of it on our menu. So I did keep all those strains. And then, again, it's not like I'm you. It's not like, okay, we're gonna go over that strain.
Right.
So I can just say, I'm going to go out, grow a strain, I have to pull out the mom or moms, get big enough to take the cuttings off of them and have the cuttings ready for when the time comes to flower them so I can have the harvest in by this particular date, which is four and a half from now. So that means in about a year, or in six, in 14 months, I have to start the taking the cuttings out of the mom room, put them into the veg, or, you know,
It's actually one of the big problems that we have right now. And like, what and how they arranged like California legal market, right, that you most people like, you know, the nursery and the cultivation for flower is separate, right? They're separate, they're separate businesses or licenses. And so like, a nursery might have 100 plants, you know, that they're that they have in their in their collection, but they only pick eight or nine, to like have that many
moms to offer up that season. Right, right. And so it's like, actually, like quite limiting, because they're trying to plan it. And like, you can be like, Oh, I want to grow this. Right. But man, like the nurseries that I want, they didn't choose that one. Right. To market this year. So I can't, I can't get enough of them. So therefore, it can't go in my garden. So therefore, it's not going to hit the menu anywhere.
Well, and that was an issue. Also, like you're saying with what's, what's the new phase, what's hot on the market right now, we had to keep that into consideration with the center as well. Because they're like, Oh, well, you know, the, the poop breath is, is, is huge right now, everybody's asking for it. So okay, well, you know, let's see if we can find a cutting, okay, I can get a cutting. But that means it's not going to be on our menu for six months.
And it's going to be popular by the time you mom and I'm just like, so for me, I was like, what, what is our staple? What do we need? And I will keep a certain amount of lights available for what's new? What you know, that's going to be a tester, right? Because we'll grow it out, it's going to take, you know, minimum four months, four to five months to get an okay harvest, where we can put it out there
to the to our clients. And then they could say, Yeah, this is a winner. Then we're like, Okay, we're going to throw it in the next rotation. Because we like it, it's new, it's fresh, it's hot. It's going to be another three months until we can have it on the menu. But and if it's not, you know, we have another one. So it was, it was kind of a, it was a, it was quite the chess game. It was it was a huge pain in the ass. I don't miss it at all, honestly. But, you know,
it was a, it was a hard way to grow. When it's not, you're not going for the magazines, you're not growing for the internet, you're growing for medicine, and you're growing, and you're growing for I think we're with 1200 clients or something like that. Luckily, not all of them use a use us like we would like them to, and I guess in a sense, but supplying that many clients on a regular basis would be close to
impossible. Yeah, I bet. Going into, you know, darker markets. Yeah. So, but anyways. So yeah, I get back to the seeds. I know that's what we kind of wanted to do. And, and we're going to talk on and offline, I think about some of this.
Sure. This stuff, because, you know, you were going to hear names that I have that the original breeders of the strains are definitely going to want. Yeah, and it will get that they're not going to get my seed. But I would like to see if I can resurrect the seeds. If I could save these seeds, their top on the list, they will get
any of the seed. If there's any males or females that I have access to that I will have access to, then the original breeders of the strains get those cuts, they get the the males, females, and I would like to do an open pollination just to save the genetics. I know it's going to be a smorgasbord of God knows everything's in there.
But if there's 100 seeds, if there's 1000 seeds, that what they're looking for is in there. And yeah, comes from any of the cuts, any of the sorry, the plants male or female that come from it. 100% every, every breeder gets those. And I'm not in the seed business. I'm not here to sell seeds. I'm not here to sell their strains. I'm here to save their strains.
And I know some of them say, well, just send me the original seeds. Well, no, they're my seeds. I paid for them.
Yeah, I want to make I want to say I want to make sure they're going to who I feel is capable. And because my seeds are old, and they weren't stored properly. Chances are, you know, when I spoke to some of them already, they're like, Yeah, don't worry about the fucking they're dead. But some of them were like, Oh, did you store them properly? And I was like, No, no, no.
Not really. They're like, they're not overly interested anymore. Okay. And some of them, as we spoke privately, privately, are willing to, you know, send people to come talk to me about getting their genetics back kind of thing. Yeah, I'm not going to leave these people out there. The focus for this. But yeah, these are seeds that that I own the seed, I don't own the strain.
Sure. The genetic gets back to who it rightfully belongs to.
I mean, the fun, the funny part about that is some people might not even be interested in getting a lot more. Yeah. Because they wouldn't want to ever admit that they needed.
Well, some of them will admit to need it. But they're just like, Pete, you know what that back then, you know, it's nothing compared to what we're producing today.
That's like when people offer me my old stuff. I'm the same way. I'm like, Well, you know, 15 years ago, I was doing something totally different. I'm really into what I'm doing now. So now go ahead and run with it. Yeah.
And, and but again, I'll give them that that offer.
Because I was mentioning that like some seed banks are like, Oh, we have all the original parents.
Yeah. You know, I, I know some of these guys don't have any of the seed. Yeah. I haven't had for probably decade or more. And it wasn't even part of their breeding program. As far as I know, it wasn't part of their breeding program. Some of them.
Yeah, some of it wasn't. And same thing. I might have 10 seeds, I might have four seeds like the chemo. I think I only have like four or five seeds and little tiny seeds kind of thing. So, you know, that doesn't belong to anybody that I know.
And if somebody says, Oh, I developed that that's mine. fucking hit me up, man. If I get seeds, I'll send you a fucking I'll send you seeds. I don't have an issue with that kind of thing. You know, you have to kind of back it up a little bit. But yeah, you know, a little, you know, these strains, I know who they are, you know, yeah, I thought about it too.
When I was starting in diva. And I was like, Listen, I'm bringing all my genetics. And I have 15 years of data that I've collected on the medical uses of these strains. Right? Yeah. I've grown in the method that I grown in. And that helps me was planned to help me a lot with getting into the legal medical market where we can advertise that this strain works for this medical condition.
But there's kind of a loophole. I believe that if you have testimony from somebody that has the same illness or element as you and uses this strain, you know, 80% of the time they go this is their go to indica and this is their go to sativa. We can give you that information. Yeah, you can't say it works for your condition.
But if I have 15 years of data, and I could say, Listen, you know, out of the 8080 clients that have the same condition as you over the last 10 years, they 80% or 60% of the time they went to this, and then 20%, they went to this and then 20%, they went to this. So it gives them a starting point, at least to have a genetic that that works for them.
The genetics don't belong to me that plants belong to me. But the genetics don't. So if I bring in a genetic from, you know, if it was from sensitive seed or one of the you know, the big Amsterdam companies, I don't give a fuck, honestly. But if it's one of the you know, what I call the old you know, the from the movement in this area in North America, you know, I would like to reach out to that person, I might not ask permission.
More or less saying, What can I do to, you know, give you a piece?
Oh, if it is something that, you know, that I'm going to be using my strawberry diesel, right, I'll reach out to strawberry diesel guy and say, Listen, you know what, I have to take that I've been growing the strain for 11 years. We're going to grow it in the LP market. You know, you're going to see your strain on the legal market.
What can I give you be kind of thing, right? Like, if it's a big seller, and we're making lots of money off it, sure, the wealth because I'm the one on the boat, helping steer the ship. You're, you're part of the you're one of the paddlers, in a sense, you should get paid. I'm not fucking screw anybody. But I'm also here to not here to, you know, bend over and say, Listen, you know, yeah, it's your strain, I won't grow it.
Sorry, like, I have it. I'm, I'm using it for medicinal reasons. It's a little bit different. I agree if you know, I, you know, like what buddy did to Steve in in Amsterdam, where he takes Steve sweet tooth and and enters the cannabis cup. Yeah, yeah. Tell Steve to fuck himself pretty much right? Like, yeah, coops this whole strain.
Yeah, I mean, seed politics. It's one of those things where it's you with the way seeds work and the way clones and everything else work. It's like, you can hoard it. Or then once you let it out into the into the world, it's kind of the honor system from that.
Yeah, yeah. And like I said, I've had no problem keeping track of some of the people that gave me their these genetics, you know, and I would piece them out somehow, you know, whether it be like in this case here with the seeds, if I get any plants from the seeds, they 100% get what if they want 100% get whatever they want from it.
They're not gonna get the exclusivity of it. You know, but if they say, Well, listen, Pete, you know, I don't really want to see my seed out there being sold on on the market. Fine. I'm not here to do that. I'm not I'm here to save the genetics if they want to do it. Great. You know, I think it'd be kind of dumb to hoard stuff like that, especially because we're talking about strains from 15 years ago.
Yeah, you know, they they didn't care that much now. But now they think it's a money thing. Money, you know, is maybe dictating with some and some it's it's the respect because they deserve so much, like tons of fucking respect in this in this industry because they're from the movement. And they kind of got, you know, left on the wayside, whether it be their fault or not their fault, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
And it deserves so much better.
Well, you see in California, California's getting killed right now.
It's happened everywhere. It's happened in it's happened basically in almost every legal state.
And like my my home state, New York, my friends are like, let's get in. Let's get in. I'm just like, fuck, dude, like New York. New York is fucking huge. It's gonna be fucking mass money. You know, and you get you know, you get the the assholes up in Canada. We had canopy that was going around bullying and pushing around everybody.
Yeah, it was. I'll try to remember who it was. But I know they had.
Yeah, it was. I'll try to remember who it was. But I know they had like a flagship in New York in Manhattan.
Yeah, it was. I'll try to remember who it was. But I know they had like a flagship in New York in Manhattan, ready to get a license. And then before New York was even talking about what was what was going on.
No, they're old.
One of those big devils.
Yeah, it was. I'll try to remember who it was. But I know they had like a flagship in New York in Manhattan, ready to get a license. And then before New York was even talking about what would you need to get a license.
And they went in and opened up shop selling fucking t shirts and hats, I think, right? Like, I don't know what else they could have sold at that time. I'm going to try to Google at the same time that I talk to you guys. But
if we start getting into the politics of how it goes state by state, we'll really get off subject.
No, I know. Like when I was out in Colorado, right after they legalized. And back then, obviously, they couldn't use banks, right? So everybody was getting paid. Like their CEO that we met with, and she helped actually write a lot of the bills for other states, because everybody's trying to follow in Colorado.
Yeah, in their footsteps kind of thing. And she'd get paid in a check, you have to have a cash check in place, she's probably making a couple hundred grand a year, and go into a check cashing place to cash your check because you can't bring it to a bank.
Yeah.
You know, like,
no federally insured place,
or trying to get paid cash, couple hundred grand a year in cash. And you're a CEO, you're not a fucking pothead. You're fucking you're brought in for your business mind, not for your cannabis mind.
Yeah.
That kind of thing.
It's still a big issue in America.
Oh, yeah, without a doubt. Without a doubt. I mean, that's going to be the biggest thing like our biggest LP up here being canopy, which was Tweed, started as Tweed now it's Canopy Grove. There was rumor that they were going to think, or were thinking about starting their own bank.
Yeah.
Right.
We had, you know, millions of dollars in there. And they're like, yeah, you know what, come and get it. We don't we won't I got kicked out of. I've been kicked out of three banks now.
Jesus.
In Canada. You know, I've been denied, you know, I've been denied a lot of money.
But because of what I did for a living, even though it was fully legal, and it was a publicly traded company, the bank wouldn't touch me.
Yeah.
Reputational risk.
Kind of shit. So anyways, I know we're getting way off topic. So what do you want to start with?
Just wherever you grab.
Well, there's gonna be.
There's gonna be stuff that I think is interesting to me.
And then there's gonna be the stuff that I'm going to be doing.
might be interesting to some I know this. Okay, so this came up.
It's gonna be kind of hard. I don't know if you can see the.
where am I?
Kind of hard to see the name.
So that's sudden cream soda cup.
Oh, cool.
All right, so we tie down and.
to me and then there's going to be the stuff that might be interesting to some. I know
this. Okay, so this came up. It's gonna be kind of hard. I don't know if you can see
the names. Where am I?
It's kind of hard to see the name.
So that's cream sodica.
Oh, cool.
Right? So we were talking about it.
That's interesting.
Now, this is a seed that we did in Switzerland.
Okay.
I think Steve brought it in from this guy. And now this guy's name was started with a
J. His name is Jay. He's a douchebag. I saw he lives on Sunshine Coast now. But I don't
think it came from him. But it came through a mutual friend, whose name is a color. And
it's the red color. But I think that's where this seed came from.
I don't know if I brought these back. I didn't bring these back from Switzerland. I think
I ended up maybe getting these after Switzerland. I ended up working on a greenhouse farm in
the interior, north of Kamloops, that the guy that was growing the cream sodica most
likely gave me these beans kind of thing. And they look good. But this is this might
be a strain that could be of interest to some.
Sure.
I wouldn't even give it to the guy that would have made these seeds. He didn't give a fuck
about them. And I really don't give a fuck about him.
So yeah, I'd be into that one. That's cool.
Yeah. And again, like I said, we'll figure out a whole bunch of that. So now we were
talking about Mighty Mike.
Yeah.
And so these seeds here from May 2002, they're a Hindu Kush cross Mighty Mike.
Oh, interesting.
Being in southwestern Ontario, where we're like we're saying we need to get our stuff
in out of the fields, mid September possible, right?
Yeah.
Because of the cold, the frost and stuff like that. We were and this is from Yoda, who is
still like I mentioned before, somebody I give some of my genetics to the whole.
Yeah.
This is his breeding. Now, his breeding wasn't super specific or anything. He was just like,
you know, I got a Mighty Mike. I'm going to cross it with a whole bunch of shit because
I want to speed up now crossing with the Kush, the Hindu Kush, which is also a fairly fast
strain, faster strain. It was making us and this is going to O2. We didn't have the Kush
craze by that time.
Yeah. No, maybe for a second you could talk about Mighty Mike, because while Matt and
I might be real familiar with it.
Yeah.
Most people, especially in the US and stuff, it probably predates them and they probably
have maybe heard about it, but don't know very much about why it was popular or why
it became such a Canadian thing.
Yeah, I think I think it's basically I was just saying, too, is because the strains that
were fast, you know, and we didn't want the fucking root of Rallis crap, right, because
it was crap. But the the fact that, you know, could clone it, you know, with Mighty Mike,
it was a very easily clonable plant because of its structure. But most importantly, for
us, it's we need things that finish quickly. And I wanted to we would use that in our I'm
going to say breeding. But in our seed making, we were looking for these early, you know,
ideally early September strain before the thieves get out there, before the police get
out there and before the frost comes.
So, I mean, as far as the history goes, it might have been that's I believe that a little
bit more to the experts.
These were just but that's fine.
It got famous basically because it came in in the season that was appropriate for where
you guys are at.
Yeah, 100 percent. 100 percent. And that's the same thing with that golden boy. Right.
So yeah, I see a bunch of things.
Golden boy of a string called Boris, which was a and I just saw that too.
And AK-47 golden boy.
No, I don't have that strain, but I want to find out the lineage on this golden boy.
So, again, story I was told and I ran this by HB about, you know, because it Willie that
was out that worked in at Hemp Nation.
We're pretty sure it came to one of his connections.
OK, that's when this whole triple SC name was was was attached to it.
Yeah. OK, but it was attached to it coming out of Ontario, not out of Amsterdam.
So it was either he was over there and got this seed from the triple SC guys in the.
Is it the 80s and 90s, what this was would have been when we got it would have been mid
mid 90s, maybe 96.
I have pictures of it.
And I would say mid 90s, give or take a few years kind of thing.
So what is it?
I don't know. But this we knew that when we did grow it inside 45 days, you know, it was
it was finishing up. So we'd love to see some pictures of it sometime.
Yeah, it's not. But then I'm not good at you.
Dang. Yeah, it's fucking strange.
Really weird strain.
It was very fucking pistoly.
The gentleman that was growing it, I think he even has tinfoil on the walls.
It was going back that far.
Awesome. Kind of thing.
Yeah. It wasn't phototron years, but it was like the first time of HID lighting being
brought into closets.
Yeah. Trying to make it as reflective as possible.
Yeah. I mean, my first garden, I was a was a gutted refrigerator, you know, and lined
with tinfoil and fluorescent lights.
Yeah, because we didn't have and we basically built a phototron in our garage back in
New York. Do it.
You know, do it, dude.
And toast, who was my roommate back then.
We were both fucking surfer, skater, pothead kind of guys.
And he was the first person that I knew that grew under HID.
Right. The 400 watt in his closet.
You know, I lived with those and he was using four inch Rockwell cubes in Tupperware
dishes, you know, under a 400.
Right. So we got off topic again.
But yeah, so I think with the Golden Boy, that's again where you were going to see that
name come up in my seed collection.
Yeah. Because of the speed.
It sped up whatever I was going to grow it with.
So here like, OK, so we got another black domino.
So this is a black domino female.
And we had a sweet tooth number three cross blueberry male.
Well, that sounds like that almost sounds like what I can't remember who was talking
about it is describing his black or sweet.
What was it sweet tooth for some one of the weird sweet.
I asked if it had more.
One of the sweet tooth had black domino inserted in it was like sweet pink grapefruit,
blueberry, black domino.
And it was only for a brief little bit.
I don't know if it's 2.2 or.
That doesn't sound familiar to me.
But again, if you're trying to get into Breeder Steve's head, what he was doing, what
he was looking for.
Going back to this, this would also probably be a seed that came out in the mid 90s or
was made in the mid 90s by us.
Yeah, my handwriting.
And back then I was selling S.L.L.
seeds in London for Steve, where you will see that I have very, very.
Hold on a second. Oh, so like, yeah.
So that's the. Sweet was that sweet tooth number four.
Yeah, yeah. Now there's a bunch of seed there.
And that's the one that Gary stole from Barney's farm and entered in the cup is the
sweet tooth number four.
Oh, really? Yeah.
I thought it was a three.
Really? It was a four.
I think he sells it.
He sells it as four.
So maybe it was.
This is where I was saying before.
So I got like a vial inside a vial.
So which don't know exactly what that means.
But this is where, you know, it'd be nice to get people like Steve on these forums if
he can control his temper that because he has a lot of this knowledge of, you know,
what he was doing, what he was going after, because he was one of the first he was the
first breeder that I became friends with.
He was the guy that was actually breeding for genetics, not for seed production.
I mean, he was breeding for seeds to sell, but, you know, he was actually putting the
time and the energy into.
So, again, any of these seeds that I get started.
He gets first fucking dips, he might come to me and say, well, Pete, am I straight in my
seat, my strain?
I want all of it.
You're not going to get all of it because I'm going to keep some for myself, not to
sell, not to fucking put it out there.
That's his the his genetics.
He can do what he wants.
But, you know, I want to like I said earlier, you keep all your genetics and your fucking
in your back pocket, you fucking lose your pants, you lose that strength kind of thing.
And that's the funny thing, too, where it's like when it comes to seed breeding, too,
it's like people are like, I'm going to breed and I'm going to sell these things.
Yeah. But then I still have control or dibs on everything that happens from that point
on. I own all the males.
You rent the seed for me kind of.
It's almost like a Monsanto type of thing where you're like, you don't really own any
of it. I'm going to let you grow it and smoke it.
But it's pretty much mine still, even though you paid me for it.
Right. Well, I think that's where it kind of gets fucked up.
Yes. That's kind of what I was pointing out for sure.
Let's just. OK, so this is something else.
Oh, it's going to be I wish I had better cameras.
So staying on the SLO stuff, because I did a lot, you know, again, Steve and I, our
friendship goes back quite a long time.
And like I said, he was one of the first people that was a breeder.
Yeah. Kind of thing. He would sell me his seed.
I'll go in this way. So this is the what is that?
Can you see that? No, it's just a berry.
Number three. Oh, three.
Interesting. And then shift to.
And again, in his packaging, because he has these little little vials and then.
I got just very first generation.
Oh, wow. Right.
So now this is where I get confused.
I try talking to read about it, which can be a little bit of a
sensitive topic.
But it was I just knew there was a yellow and a red line.
Yeah. That's as far as my extent went to.
So when I was going through these seeds, I was just like, well, this is in Steve's
writing. This is in Steve's writing packaging.
And then this is your very first generation is in my writing.
Right. So.
What's what, like, did he have three different and I think red actually even
try to explain it to me, but we were talking about a few different things.
And again, why I think, you know, people like red who has a lot of knowledge in
who is really doing what?
Yeah. And his versions of it, which I will strongly
agree with. Ninety eight percent of the time.
But like you say, we I a hundred percent agree with.
I should say that I'm ninety eight percent agree with what I'm saying because it's
what I how I understand it.
So, you know, when it comes to the seeds, I know Steve would be like, well, then my
seeds, I want them back.
They are your seeds, and if anything comes from them, you get 100 percent of
everything, but I'm keeping some for myself because I bought these seeds from you.
Yeah. Right.
I like the old stuff.
I don't grow for the fucking highest THC
or a certain turf or or to sell seeds.
Right. I will make sure like, you know, he doesn't want this seed sold.
He has the seed come.
He's a seed breeder. You don't fucking step on somebody's toes that way.
His genetics, you can have them.
But I want to do what I can to save him so I can so I have him for myself
for again, if and when the time comes, there might be a time I'm like,
fucking you know what? I'm moving.
I'm going to be in fucking, you know, someplace in Europe.
I'm not going to grow anymore.
Fucking I'm diluting my seed fucking catalog, take everything.
I don't give a fuck anymore.
I'm not at that point yet.
When that point comes, I'm not going to say, OK, I'm selling my collection.
I'm going to say, well, I'm going to say I have.
Certain people's genetics are yours kind of thing, if you don't care,
then sure, I'll put them out there and I'll fucking spread the spread the wealth
100 percent. But like I say, I have a sweet tooth.
How's this say?
So sweet tooth number one, oh, it's a sweet tooth, number one or number two,
but there's only like five seeds in a little fucking baggie.
Oh, interesting. You know, again, what is that?
To me, I just want to throw this in there before I forget.
Yeah. Like going through like
old seed collections.
Yeah. Is very much like that.
It's like here's some chicken scratch that only the guy that put it in there
could ever decipher.
Here's a weird code.
God, he gave me this.
Oh, no. You know, I remember this weird vial.
Right. And this weird vial with this S.K.
on it. This means this.
Right. But if you were someone else trying to decipher some
one of your friends' seed collections, it would almost be impossible.
Like you pretty much need them.
It's almost like hieroglyphics.
You would almost need them there to interpret it for you,
because if you just got it without any.
And I even think I mean, there was a thing where,
you know, Matt, when you and I were talking about
how we found out that like, you know, when Neville sold his seed collection to
Shanti, he got pissed at him and then just stopped explaining all the codes.
Yeah. Yeah. And I didn't know what he had.
And then I didn't know what he had.
Because there was all these weird codes.
I was. I think it was it was Brita Steve that when I was
talking like 10 years ago or something like that, I was like,
oh, I got these old seeds of yours.
I'm I haven't stored them properly.
And he put me in touch with some guy on the West Coast.
And the deal was that he gets to keep
and do whatever he wants with with the seeds that he recovers.
And I just said, well, no, I'm not going to do that.
Like that's you.
I understand. Because then again, he was a friend of Steve's, I would imagine.
But in all right.
So if I sent it to him, he could have he could have fucked me.
He could have fucked Steve. Sure.
Right. So every every every embryonic rescue guy
I have ever worked with has fucked me.
Right. So I'll tell you that.
And all of them were from the West Coast and there have been a few.
So that's what I get kind of concerned.
Like I'm just like, you know, I want to take my mom.
I got this old thing.
And if you're going to pay me a lot of money to to rescue this thing.
Yeah. And if it doesn't work, I get the money.
And if it does work, I get the money and I get the genetics.
Yeah. That's the deal.
I'm a weak deal. It's a great deal for me.
The worst case scenario, I make a bunch of money.
The best case, whatever you get, I already have it.
Right. And I mean, like you said, with the with the chicken stretch.
And I've done that, like because I told the what I think what
one deal breaker what
excuse me was is I'm going to send you all the seeds,
but they're numbered.
There's not.
And I did this with my when I was hoarding my genetics.
People were like, oh, you know, I need cuttings.
I say, OK, you're going to get the LCS number six
and you can get LCS number 18.
And they're like, what is it?
They're like, I'll tell you when you harvest the plant.
And I know that you're not fucking because nobody's going to say, well, yeah,
I got cuts, I'm going to sell your cuttings. Yeah.
But people like, well, what are they like?
I don't know, but I know they're good.
Well, no, I don't want. Yeah. Right.
So I was going to do that.
And it was like, no, no, you can't do that.
We need to know what the strains are that we're growing.
But we're going to try to resurrect or save.
And I just said, no, it's not going to work for me.
And did that piss off people? Yeah, I'm sure.
I piss off a lot of people all the time.
I'm really fucking you know what?
I don't give a fuck anymore.
Like, you know, I'm doing to be I've saved these seeds for fucking
20 some odd years. Right.
You're going to get pissed off at me now that I'm not turning them over to you.
You know, sorry. But, you know, I would.
After that long, you get to be the custodian.
Yeah. I don't mind fucking giving them back after they're saved
and they're secured and they're not going to get fucking
pasteurized and stuff like that.
I'm not going to, you know.
Let anybody like there'll be there'll be conditions.
Well, what is what?
I mean, and if somebody like the one guy is like, listen,
if you're true to your word, that you're going to be
honest, then
if you want me to trust you, then you have to trust me.
And I am going to send you my
my golden haze.
But I'm not going to tell you it's golden haze.
I'm going to tell you it's, you know, it's a code.
And then when you're like, yeah, it's resurrected, they send it back to me.
Then, you know, I'm going to know what it is.
And if if it's my strain and I'm like, OK, you can have it.
I'll tell you what the fuck it is.
But there's going to be certain ones that I can't do.
Best of luck. I don't know who the fuck Eric is.
So what is this?
So, yeah. So grapefruit.
So again, like you were saying, we get trapped.
So what I started doing with this stuff is I started reaching out to friends.
Yes. OK, who's this?
So it says grapefruit.
That's all probably sweet tooth.
Best of luck. Sorry, I missed you, Eric.
So this is somebody that.
Probably bought grapefruit seeds for me.
Yeah, I'm not fucking growing them in his fucking backyard or something.
And he said, well, this is what it could be.
So, you know, are they worth keeping?
I think 100 percent because it might be that one sweet tooth
fucking plant in there.
Yes. He's been looking for.
Yeah. And if you're going to pop a bunch of sweet tooth,
you might as well pop that one with them and see if it's all of it.
And just say, and it's not up to me
because I remember sweet tooth that I grew.
But I don't remember the sweet tooth that Steve grew or read.
You know, they and when I was talking with
with read about this, I was just like, well, you know, is
is this shish kabari like I wanted to send him a note?
I grew up the shish kabari and I was like,
it kind of doesn't look like the red or the yellow line.
And he's like, send me a fucking note.
I'll tell you which one it is.
I fortunately never did it, but though I still have a package
to send read to myself.
Well, I was talking about right here, though.
And this is when he has a pungent skunk.
Yeah, that's the one I want to see that I want to know what's in that.
Yeah. So that when I told red, he that's the only one he really showed
interest in. He's like, oh, dude, where they probably store is like, no, sorry.
He's like, ah, fuck.
So same thing, you know,
with certain people right now, they're super busy in life.
They're super fucking focused on their family
and providing and for them and so on.
If I have the ability to to send these seeds to somebody and say, listen,
you know, you're going to do through tissue culture,
embryo, embryo, however they call it, salvation.
Then. We're not see when those plants, if the seeds pop,
then I want, you know, a copy of each cutting.
And if we're going to breed them, breed them, open, breed and send fucking
the send red fucking all the shit he wants.
Does he still want it?
Maybe he's, you know, but maybe at certain times they might just say,
well, fuck it, you know what?
That's yesteryears.
And now one of one of these old breeders said that to me recently.
He's like, ah, you know what, Pete, like the fucking we're on to such better things.
Like that's old history. Nobody cares about that anymore.
Yeah. Well, I do.
Right. Because I'm not right.
I care a lot about the old sensei stuff, you know?
Yeah. Oh, hillbilly.
We're hillbilly.
So again, rumor has it, I'm going to say now magic carpet.
By Hillbilly Salmon Creek.
His first name is Steve.
His I wasn't going to say his name, but oh, yeah, you were trying to guess it.
I'm like, here, let's name.
Hold on.
Matt, you know, he's public with his name.
He's fine.
OK, well, I don't even know where he's like he's California, right?
Oh, God. Oh, I think he sounds like he's from Kentucky.
But yeah. OK, well, I thought he came again.
Rumor has it
that he was one of the seed providers
of the first legal marijuana garden in Canada.
OK, that was in Flint,
Flann, Manitoba in that old mine.
Right. Get name.
I don't know. I forget the name of it, the company.
But basically it was when Health Canada was
trying to set up the the failure of the of the marijuana community.
So what they were doing was they had.
God, I just had to tip my tongue to they were sod growers
that got the license.
And and again, this is where people know different.
Please pipe in.
They were only allowed to sell seeds
that were confiscated by the RCMP.
And that's all they could grow. Right.
So they knew where the seed was coming from.
It wasn't supporting the black market.
And the guy that was growing it
was producing crap, shitty,
sitting on his shelf for fucking years.
And then all of a sudden the pot started getting better.
The guy had you know, we saw pictures of the gardens.
Phenomenal fucking facility.
He had tons of money, millions of dollars.
He was in the most secure.
It was more secure than our fucking national mint.
You do the way in and one way out.
And it was two kilometers below the ground. Right.
It wasn't like you could just fucking drive a tank through his.
Yeah. Through his door kind of shit. Right.
And supposedly the seeds made it in through a back door.
And that's why the guy's pot started.
Did it revolve around heroin?
No, I don't even know what the strains were back then.
OK, that was what what Shmeev Shmuck, that's a good name for him,
was was most known for was the heroin and right back.
Like he came down.
I know he was in the medical scene in California for a little bit.
And one of our friends. Right.
So I heard again how I remember hearing
that the genetics came from the DNA.
Came from California.
This guy called Hillbilly Genetics
and were able to make their their way into Flintline.
Kind of. OK, yeah, that makes sense.
And, you know, if it was
again, if somebody knows this Steve guy,
if he's out there and has a contact whom, you know, please let him know.
Because, again, those two strains that I just mentioned,
you know, I bought them.
They're his strains.
If he wants them back, you know, he's more than welcome to whatever
fucking seed or plant comes from these genetics. Right.
Like it's it's about sharing for me.
This box of seeds I have is for sharing the genetics. Right.
So when we get into certain things like the beriberi. Right. Yeah. Yeah.
Which is these two pictures behind me.
My first my first centerfold in high times.
I got lots of these seeds. I love this plant.
It's not stable by any stretch of the imagination.
It's not bad, but I would say I mean, it's probably like a
probably back crossed.
Maybe three times, two or three times.
So it's not bad. Yeah.
Again, I wasn't a breeder.
I was a seed producer kind of thing.
So sometimes I might have a, you know, a little bit
of a different intention, and therefore I wasn't going crazy.
Like some of the people I'm in, Steve, telling me that he
when he chose the male, this resinous blueberry male,
he was actually smoking male flowers or or because of the
because it was a resin producing male.
OK, that's right. His famous resin producing blue. Yeah.
Male. Yeah. Right.
And so he was like, yeah, I've smoked.
I mean, makes sense.
Like, I don't know what you'd be smoking, have you?
But whatever has resin on it. Sure.
You know, that way you're going to get some of the.
Flavor, some of the turps are going to be in that resin, you know.
So maybe that was
was a little bit more than I was doing.
I was just saying, wow, this is fucking great pot.
Let's fuck. I got a male of it.
I got a female of it. Let's fucking do that.
I really like this female.
I'm going to guess I'm going to grow it again.
I'm going to try to find a male that best reproduces,
represents the mom.
I'm going to cross it back again. Right.
What was in the berry berry?
No fucking idea. No idea. No idea. No idea.
I just it came for me when I came to me,
which a lot of genetics did because we had a seed bank.
We were the only ones.
At the time in Canada.
Yeah. Doing it right.
This is before Mark was Dark Enemy was selling anything.
So it was a, you know, somebody came in.
Oh, look, you know, try this stuff. It's awesome.
Grow it out like, holy fuck, is that awesome?
You know, same with the Boris, right?
Boris was another strength.
No idea where it came from.
Again, I didn't really care about the names.
Names are the least of my concern.
I was I was worried about what it produced.
And for medicinal.
And for well, for medicinal bag,
I would say bag appeal, but it had to hit
a few criteria for us. Right.
One, we need it to be medicinally useful to.
We need it to yield so we can get people to grow it for us
because the deal we made with all of our growers is we get you a legal license
to grow a certain amount of plants.
You keep 50 percent of the the harvest to to pay for everything.
And the other 50 percent goes to the center.
Yeah. Right.
And the client that you're growing for never pays a dime for fucking anything.
He gets all the pot for free and you get a high yielding,
you know, great plant that center will take.
Well, we'll we'll buy all the pot, but half of it comes to us at no cost.
Yeah. Kind of thing. Right.
So it kind of it helps us pay our bills
and keep to be a not not not for profit society.
We're not nonprofit, but we're registered as a not for profit society.
It was that goal, that triangle that I was trying to create,
even with growth shops, bringing in local growth shops, saying
if you give our medical growers discounts,
then we'll send you all our medical growers. Yeah.
And, you know, the growers, if you're going to sell just to us,
you get a discount from the growth shop and we're going to pay you fair value
and we'll take all the pot. Yeah. Right.
So we made and then the client never had to pay for pot.
Yeah. That was pretty bad. Yeah.
Right. So it was it was a way to kind of
get everybody what they want and make sure everybody's happy,
because if one person in that triangle wasn't happy, it falls apart.
Yep. Right. So make sure that everybody's happy.
And again, that's what I'm I'm I try to do all the time.
And sometimes people get pissed off at me for it.
But, you know, fuck them.
And I think about them.
OK, so this says NYPD Boris, but underneath it, it's says
there's a DMV filo.
So the filo taxi, are you familiar?
That's a I think that's I'm not sure if I'm pronouncing it right.
Filo taxi, filo taxi. Yeah. Right.
When it leaves, instead of being two brackets, it has a third bracket.
Yeah. Right. So theory being
you're going to get a third more pot off a plan if it's going to be.
Triple bracket instead of a double bracket kind of thing.
So anytime I saw that, I got excited.
I was like, oh, there's a file there.
Let's let's save it.
Male, female, just so we can use it to cross into some of our genetics
to see if we can we can recreate that.
That I think it's I don't think we ever were able to.
Honestly, I think it was we were chasing a dream kind of thing,
because I don't know if it's stress related or what caused it.
It was a trait or if it was stress related or any of that stuff.
I don't know what it was.
I thought it was a trait, but it was like one in in my experience,
like one in five hundred.
What? Yeah, probably at least one in five hundred that you would actually see it.
Yeah, kind of thing.
It wasn't something that we saw very often.
So when I did see it, it was fairly so like I would set these aside.
And it's it just says NYPD Boris, but the DMV was
I don't know if I can say his name.
He's not on the thing.
He's a super nice guy. Yeah.
So something Millennium Bud.
No, his name is Dan Miller.
He's a fucking. Oh, OK.
Yeah, yeah. That's a famous train, though.
Dan Miller, but it can't be.
Yeah, it is. I've heard of it upstairs apartment kind of thing.
Yeah, no, it's definitely like an old strain list and stuff.
That's the only way I would have heard of it. Yeah.
OK, because this is a local kid here who I just ran into not that long ago.
I he's in my book, actually.
And short story was he was one of the growers for Hemp Nation,
not LCS, and he was part of the what we say, the honor guard.
Like he was Hemp Nation family.
Yeah. And he just he came with the cutting
that won an Evan flow table, just produced these big fat, massive
encrusted colas.
Is it so perfect?
See, you're green, perfect for the you know, the the
the gorilla back, you know, basement gardens that are all running
Evan flow, you know, short sea of green type of plants.
Yeah. And so we just started calling it a DMV because we named it after him
because we didn't know what it was.
It was a cutting that came from him.
So when we saw it and I was like, well, that's what we need for
our, you know,
black market, our gardens that we were trying to get
as much out of as little spot as possible kind of thing, doing the green
kind of thing, not worried about plant counts and shit like that.
And DMV was was a strain, right?
Even when I was growing one of my one of my rooms,
which was just a bedroom in one of my apartments, when people came by,
I just told him that was his initials.
That's my roommate.
They weren't allowed in the room as I got.
He locks the door to you know, he's away a lot kind of shit.
But the Dan Millibud was actually a garden.
But I told people and he's a super fucking good guy.
He he left the nation a little sour, unfortunately.
But hopefully I resurrected that relationship
because he was just one of those people that, you know, same thing.
If these seeds get reproduced or get saved,
he'd be the first one on the phone saying, hey, dude, it's not the DMV,
but it has the DMV in it.
So if we do an open popular pollination, there's a chance
one of those seeds is going to be your strength.
And you can have as much as you want kind of thing.
So I put them aside to kind of be.
So this is something else that came up when we were when I sent you that.
And I don't know if you can post the and I can send you a few more, actually.
The menu that we had back in the great Canadian Emporium.
So early mid 90s to mid 90s.
OK, which one specifically?
Because I could put them up here.
Yeah. So basically any of the ones.
But this one here has
this is how we used to sell the seeds, right?
Just a little. Well, she said that this is how we sold some of the seeds.
And then they all just went into little the grand finals.
Yeah. So.
But so this here is
an Afghani black domino.
Since he's got.
Right. Nice.
So same thing.
We were growing the the black domino sensei skunk.
We crossed black down with so much shit that loved
the nug.
We really loved the description that sensei put in their catalog.
Andrew, our our minister of
he was our artist.
He's the one that actually when you look at all the artwork from nation
and base, he's he's the artist.
Yeah, I want to meet that guy.
I want to use some of that art like modern times.
That is awesome. Yeah.
He's long gone.
Showed you the the NYPD like he did characters of all of us, right?
Character. Yeah.
And I didn't have dreads back then, but I had
I'd wear my hair in braided
a pigtails, I guess, because anytime I went out into the bush
and I had to wear my backpack, I had super long hair.
So I would read on each side so it wouldn't get stuck in the backpack.
Yeah. And so he would he drew a picture of me,
you know, with my braids.
And it's the release of the NYPD
Cult of the Minister of Agriculture Sunday.
Cannabis talks, stuff like that.
But, you know, you'll see.
I did find a few of these these blends.
And again, these are F1s.
These are we didn't breed these as much as we wanted to spread the seed.
But that's it.
I just remember the that sense you spoke
was huge for us back then, you know, like it was a it was like.
It was you know how the super skunk has that really pungent smell.
Yeah. The skunk one has that big cola.
This this sense you seem to have like a little bit of the two where it was.
It was it had the it had the smell, but it had the the structure
and but didn't have the weight, didn't have the big fat nugs where the dominant
did. So the dominant, you know, being a really greasy, really
more singular, even though we did.
I have pictures of a super cropping plant that we did of the dominant
and the skunk one.
How would you describe the smell of your dominant cut?
It was it was pretty nasty, very kind of tarry,
kind of fucking rubber kind of smell.
So that more noxious end.
Yeah, it was it wasn't fruity by the least of it.
It was pretty fucking.
That sounds pretty tarry kind of shit.
It smelled like asphalt kind of stuff kind of.
So but it also, you know, when we super cropped it, one plant would give us.
Fuck, I think the one plant was like three quarters of a pound inside
and four feet tall.
Right off the ground.
Yeah, that's not just of it, but it was super cropped
and it probably veged for.
Two months. Yeah, I was bending and breaking the skunk one.
Same thing, you know, we were hopping might have topped once,
but everything else was just fucking bent down.
Yeah. And and tied down.
And the super.
You call that low stress training.
Is that like a term for it today?
I call it high stress training.
Like, yeah, glad. Yeah.
We're super cropping and and and and LST are totally different.
Yeah. So what we were doing is that's why I call it high stress,
because we were breaking like we were twisting and turning.
We weren't bending down.
We were breaking the inside herd.
Oh, so you're popping that super cropping to me is when you break the inside.
Yeah. Yeah. And then it reforms and it makes like a knuckle.
Yeah, no, that's different.
That's not I mean, when we did the super cropping article and now super cropping,
I'm not going to say take claim to it because it was shown to me by two local growers.
Yeah. But when we did the article in High Times
before it's so much that his super cropping, which was just a reproduction
of what my or what the the article about me, I guess, would be.
It's you don't want that knuckle.
OK, knuckle is a weak point, right?
It's a strength point, but it's also a weak point.
What you want is to have a knuckle on top of a knuckle,
on top of a knuckle, on top of a knuckle, on top of a knuckle.
So it the the the branch doesn't do this,
doesn't do this right angle.
It does this bend. Right.
So it's just like it's a knuckle here, a knuckle.
There's a knuckle here, a knuckle here, knuckle here, knuckle here,
because I'm bending and breaking and then that plant fucking like flattens out.
So just just so people that don't know,
generally super cropping is you're like breaking the inner herd.
Yeah. But you're trying to leave like the outside.
You don't touch the outside.
Like that is unbroken.
So you're trying you're not trying to snap it.
So the outside breaks.
You're trying to snap it.
So you get an inner break. Yeah.
But the outside and then this is what Matt is saying.
Low stress training is basically just bending it over and tying it
without any kind of breaking with that.
Yeah, with no stress.
It's just like you just you're just redirecting where the hormones go
because of height. Yeah.
And you know, people that tie my guy used to tie two by fours to his plant tops
and a two by four would be, you know, six inches off the ground
when he was done because he'd have eight branches tied to it.
And the next day, be three inches off the ground.
And the next day, be two inches off the ground.
And then eventually it's sitting on the ground.
Right. That's the low stress.
We would still do that at certain times.
But the theory that I came up with why this work
was because of this local kid that I met
through the guys that showed me the super cropping technique.
And when he was born, his art, his leg, he had a he was grown in a deformity
where his legs were crossed inside his mother's womb.
And when he was born, he couldn't walk.
Obviously, his legs were fucking buckled up.
His fucking his soles of his feet were pretty much turning upwards.
And for the first so many years of his life, every year, six months,
whatever, they would go in and they would break the bone to straighten it
and then go and break the bone and then straighten it and then break the bone
again and straighten it.
Brutal. Yeah.
It took his legs from being this kind of bent in.
And every time it just broke it open, broke it open, broke it open,
straighten it, straighten it until he could walk.
Yeah. Well, I don't know if you ever broken a bone.
Can't break a bone in the same place twice.
It's physically impossible.
Right. Because you get such a calcium buildup on that.
So if we could break if you could break your arm
20 times, you can form your arm to be whatever shape you want it to be.
Right. So if you break it, if you have your arm and it's broken,
where am I? And then you break it and you set it this way
and then you set it this way and then you set it this way.
Your forearm will be bent like that and sturdy.
Yeah. You know.
We did the same. That's what we were doing with the plant.
We were super cropping it.
And at the very beginning, you can't twist and turn.
You have to just pinch.
Yeah. You just go around it because it's so soft tissue
and you just slowly pinch and you don't pinch in the same way,
on the same side and same angle.
You rotate, you rotate. Yeah.
Until the whole plant is like this.
And then the next day, you're going to see that that shoot pop up
and it's going to be sitting like this.
Right. Where it's going to be kind of bent up.
And then eventually, you know, that's going to be strong enough
that you can have your main cola two feet off the ground,
four feet or three feet from the center of where your plant is
and not have to use any tomato cages, not have to use anything
because that that inside herd is one solid.
So, you know, when you harvest a plant, you cut it down.
You can see sometimes that center
canal in the middle of a in the middle of your branch.
Sure. When we were super cropping, especially towards the end of it,
when we were doing it with the big moms, it would take two people.
We'd have one guy holding a broomstick
and the other guy fucking pushing to hit that snap.
And the other come back, we'd snap it the other way and stuff like that.
Right. Like when you went to cut that plant down,
you couldn't use fucking scissors to cut the fucking branches off.
You had to use a fucking saw to cut it was solid kind of thing.
So we would. So the block domino was great for that.
The skunk one was great for that.
But I get you know, it was the block domino that was like the key to it.
And I know I do have pictures of this.
The one group block domino plant that this kid grew.
And he's a mutual friend of Shawnee kids of mine.
Yeah. We were speaking about him last time.
Till was a call until now. But.
He was an epileptic that didn't leave his house very much,
so he was perfect candidate to show this technique to start.
Sure. A fucking trained all these plants.
And, you know, if he if he wanted to, you know, if he had the focus,
he could have created, you know.
Two pounds off of three plants under one light kind of thing.
Yeah. Well, you could it's supercropping is designed for people like right now
in Canada, we got four plants. Yeah.
But if you have a basement that has seven foot ceilings
for plants, isn't going to give you very much. Exactly.
You know, I know one guy that has one plant per thousand watt
and that covers, you know, probably a five foot by five foot space.
I don't think he's growing anymore.
But, you know, I don't know if he was supercropping either,
but that's what supercropping was intended for.
That's why Kyle flew me to Amsterdam and had me talk at the canvas cup.
And that was my topic.
My topic was basically supercropping and why and how kind of.
That's so wild. Yeah. Really early take on it.
Oh, here's your fucking I call you call them feminized self-pollination.
So the G8, so the golden haze.
OK, that's my strain.
And it just says self-pollinated, which to me means hermaphrodite.
Yeah. Yeah. I would not want to grow this fucking plant.
Yeah, I totally grow. Yeah, I know.
But that way, I ain't scared of no fucking her.
I'm petrified of them. Right.
And then all of the.
And then all of the.
This was the the skipper.
So Skipper was a nation on a guard, passed away from from
pancreatic cancer, was a client at the center.
But he was one of the guys that.
When we when I say honor guard,
Chris will kind of elaborate on this, too, if he ever comes on the show.
No matter what I had, no matter where I was, these guys.
Were allowed to come into my store and take over the fuck they want off the show
behind the counter, they could walk in and say, Pete, I need fucking 500 bucks.
You know, it's like if it's in the till, it's yours.
Like it's you, you don't pay for you on a bong.
You come in, you take a bong.
You know, you need weed.
I give you weed. Yeah.
So Skipper was one of the first, if not the first honor guard.
First, I do that at my friend's record store,
except that he doesn't like that I do that.
I try to just go in and just take what I want.
It's pretty. Yeah.
Well, these guys, there's a few people in this town
that have that anybody from nation family.
Yeah. Knew whether they took advantage of it or not.
If they walked into Organic Traveler, my head shop.
Yeah. They take whatever the fuck they want.
Like they built me.
They are the foundations to to.
To. To what we are, they they they they're the ones
that kind of laid down to for us to to to blaze this path that we're on.
So when again, and this is probably when I was being a little bit
more protective of my genetics, but Skip said, hey, listen, you know, like I want to
I want to grow your your your golden haze in my backyard.
All right. He's like, and I have this blue skunk
and I have a male of it.
I want to cross it.
And it's like, well, I don't have seeds of the golden haze
other than self pollinated.
But I said, you know what?
If you want to do that, you do it kind of thing.
And he gave me, you know, I probably gave me as many seeds as I wanted,
but I only have maybe 15 seeds left.
And I just call it the GHB, which is a unique name.
Indeed. Yeah.
We're going back to like the early mid 90s.
Sure. We made a moment in the sun then.
I didn't in Canada.
I was just like, listen, it's golden haze crosses the blue skunk.
So I'm calling it GHB. Yeah.
Yeah. I mean, and it's a sativa dominant one.
Right. So he had an indica dominant one.
He had Steve. He liked the sativa one.
I named the strain the skipper skiva.
Right. Because I mean, I'm not going to lie.
Skiba. Right.
Because his name was Skip kind of thing.
So same thing.
Genetics that mean fuck all the some will mean fuck all to anybody.
But if they grow these out, if they find that golden haze.
I guarantee you're going to fucking love it just because of.
What's in it and what like how it produces what it does.
Yeah. Because it was that fruity sativa,
fast flowering, short fat plant, which you just you don't.
You don't get. I wanted to I wanted to interject something
because anybody anybody that was growing in the 90s, you just you just
threw out like what I would think is like a very common,
you know, like sort of sort of viewpoint, which is,
oh, man, this thing self pollinated or it made some seeds.
I'm not that interested in these
because this will screw up the rest of my stuff because of how it was made.
Yeah. And we've had a sea change in in in whether that's acceptable.
Most people that started growing in the 90s, that was the view
was hermaphrodism was going to introduce something weird.
Yeah. You know, well, it's a new seed.
I don't want to. Yeah.
And then, you know, Matt is one of the card
carrying original members of gender fluidity is good.
It's true. And we should we should we should not hate on this form of breeding.
Yep. Well, maybe I'm old school, but chicks with dicks.
I'm not a big keen of chicks with dicks.
Yeah, no, I mean, you need to get with the times, bro.
It's very it's you know, it's got to suck it.
I go to a party and I want to hang out with chicks.
I don't want to fucking be surprised.
You just suck it.
That's what not so told me.
Anyways, that's what you know.
You know, you know, in all seriousness, you know, Matt, Matt can tell you
that he got a lot of pushback and a lot of hate
when he started pushing feminized breeding at first.
Oh, God, because it was considered to be a cheat code.
It was considered to be weakening the ruining all the gene pool.
I was ruining genetics.
It was it was scandalous behavior.
I guess my favorite my favorite was that I was ruining
what God intended to be natural, and I'd point out, actually,
they started out intersex, so I think I'm putting them back to normal.
Technically, if you want to know what I mean, like, yeah,
I didn't see it and any that I didn't get that deep.
I basically said, you know, when I'm growing
and especially in larger scale, anything over a few plants, actually,
or with somebody with especially my clients
that don't know what to look for, where if a banana pops out,
then I got seedy pot and I know that's a practical.
You know, I'm not going to see.
Yeah. Right.
So if I see that seed, like I said earlier, I believe
and I honestly believe this to be true that 95% of what we grow
are her me to one to a certain percentage to a certain degree.
Yeah. Right.
Where some might be you just have to sneeze and it fucking shoots out a banana.
Some that you have to fucking go as far as, you know,
chloride or silver or geloric acid or something that you really have
to fucking stress it to produce that flower.
I know you said there's different ways and methods now.
Sure. But in my old school mentality, that's what I always thought.
I thought they are producing feminized, not female feminized seeds.
And there's a big difference between an all female seed pack and a feminized
feminized seeds means you're not going to get a male.
It doesn't say you're not going to get a hermaphrodite.
I think it's a very high likely
that if you are going to have any hiccups in your garden,
if you especially outdoors, I would never put a feminized seeds out outdoor
because it's so out of your control or in somebody's garden that is not,
you know, on top of everything and knowledgeable
where they can keep a perfect environment and watering schedule and temperature
and and feed program, all that kind of thing where you any kind of stress.
It's going to trigger it sooner to produce seed, produce pollen.
That's going to give you a self pollinated plant or an alpha breeding.
Sure. It's great for breeding.
I'll give you that. But not for me.
I tried my best over the past 15 years to completely destroy the term feminized.
So I was that was really, really bad term.
I thought I thought female seeds was a bad term.
I thought reversed made the most sense because you're reversing the sex on a plant
and that's describing the action.
But what to expect it?
You shouldn't be telling people what to expect, because there's absolutely
every possibility that a plant can be, you know, have female chromosomes
and pop up completely looking male and can and everyone in the way the legal market
works currently, all the stuff that I've been involved in that does any kind of
large scale seed popping.
Yeah, it's all feminized seed.
Yeah, because nobody wants to get out there and be like, I have I'm going to have
somewhere between 30 and 70 percent be males.
Yeah. So I'm going to have a crew spend weeks out there every day going and hacking
down boys before they throw pollen.
Right. You know, I'm still out of that anyway, because some of them are going to some of
them are going to be fake.
You know, I don't want to say fake males, but like even with it.
Yeah. Even with even with feminized populations.
And I've popped, you know, some pretty large groups at this point.
Occasionally you'll get what looks like a true male.
Yeah. Like not a hermaphrodite.
Not not something with male and female flowers, but something that actually looks like a
true male plant.
They do pop up.
Right. But that's what I was getting at, too, where, you know, and again, this is with
lack of knowledge, but where you have what I believe to have a female plant and a male
plant. And then when you when you do the when you have a hermaphrodite, because we're
dealing with a mother and a father, we're bringing in the two to two chromosomes.
There's a very there's a very, very good like likelihood that we're going to have both of
them carry over. Right.
And in cannabis, especially being a seed bearing plant that will go into the ability to
self pollinate to continue its life throughout the season or throughout.
And again, why I think it's written into Genesis, into the Bible is, you know, for this
reason, where it's one of those unique plants that if it thinks that, oh, shit, you know,
there's only females around.
We're not going to be able to reproduce.
They're going to flip one of those females to produce pollen and therefore have dropped
seed for the following season.
Kind of that's what I think makes hermaphroditism so hard and people get all angry
about it where I'm like, OK, so this plant has existed for millions of years.
Yeah. And this was a super successful like strategy for it to be able to make seeds at
times when something might have happened.
Right. Right.
And then sometime in the 90s, we were like, oh, we don't want this anymore.
So 30, 30 years ago, people were like, you know, let's get away from this.
Thousands of years of selection.
Right. And when everybody was was growing seeded weed and, you know, all the Thai and all
the Colombian and all the Mexican and everything else was fully seeded.
Who cares if there was hermaphrodites?
No, exactly. I think you already you already were getting flower full of seed.
Yeah. So it really wasn't until I came to is this, you know, for people like myself that
started smoking pot in the depending on memory, it's either the late 70, 79 or 80, 81
that we had to get the credit card and the fucking album cover out.
And I can praise you fucking and pull out all that seed.
Where the fuck you think I got my seed to start?
Everything that I started with was, you know, got a great bag of fucking weed.
Didn't know where the fuck came from.
Probably was compressed, has seeds in it.
I don't want to. I mean, I'm going to grow them.
They might finish. They might not.
I don't know. Right.
But we did breed a lot of fuck.
Fuck. A lot of shit into this plant.
We bred CBD out of the fucking plant pretty much.
Right. Because we were so we went through the stage of focusing so much on THC, focusing so
much on just strong females.
Right. That we we lost track of, you know, the beauty of the versatility of this plant.
Well, do you know what do you know what CBD was before testing?
It was just weed that didn't work.
Yeah. Yeah. It's him.
You know, it wasn't like we were like, oh, that is CBD in it.
You're like, oh, this one doesn't get me high.
Well, we're going to eliminate this one.
This one doesn't work. It's got it.
I have, you know, people ask me like, oh, what was you know, what's your favorite pot?
And I was like, you know what?
We used to buy our pot on this on B-15, which was a street in East Rockway, New York.
And it was the five dollar.
Oh, yeah. Some of our first catalogs.
Yeah. Which is remind me, I think this strain is on that, too.
But people ask me, like, what is your favorite some of your favorite pot?
And I was like this brickweed that we got back in like fucking
eighty two, eighty three, because it got me super high.
They gave me stone, got me super high.
And I want I like that getting that super high.
Yes. If you go back, go back to that.
So this is us, you know, showing people how to germinate seeds on.
So if you know the go back one.
Yeah, that one.
So if you look on there.
I have you might be able to see there's a purple star cross.
Right. Which I wouldn't be surprised if we could.
You could see we did a lot of the skunk one crosses there.
Right. Again, in the G-13, the Willy's Wonder Purple Star Hindu.
So I have purple star on this and I also have the skunk one on there.
But what you'll also notice is like when you get into like the
S-50, S-48, the Golden Boy,
the Golden Boy was something that I crossed a lot of stuff with
because I wanted that
that quick.
I want I love the purple star is short, fast, you know,
that silver haze Mexican sativa.
I grew this one of this Mexican sativa outdoors here
along the along the cliffs of Lake Erie.
I had this great garden because you could be you could hang it on the
on the beach or on the boat, be out on the boat.
And you couldn't see the garden because the slope was
away, it sloped away from the lake.
So I grew these big, huge, massive sativas.
And I think I have a problem.
I can't finish. I don't give a fuck.
I'm not you know, I grow for fun,
especially there was I get to go to the beach and hang out with chicks and so on.
And and then erosion came and it took down a good section of the garden.
And then you'd be cruising down like October into November
down the coast and you'd look up and there'd be these huge wall of fucking
these sativa plants, these Mexican sativa plants that were
just starting to flower in like mid-November.
Right. Wow.
You know, finish.
But they were these wall of cannabis that exposed my entire garden
to to the world.
You know, anything.
But, you know, I like I want that sativa.
This is, again, chasing that B15 fucking brickweed.
They were again, they were Mexican.
It was all Mexican fucking pot coming up to New York back then.
You know, the mystery mix.
I love that. Yeah.
The mystery mix is just a little bit of God knows what kind of shit.
And it would be like either
we just forgot or like there was extra seeds or, you know,
where we put them in packs of six and we had three of these leftover
throw them in the fucking mystery seat.
You know, the so there was a lot of what is that?
So, yeah, so these will get to our limited supplies kind of stuff. Right.
So. We try to do like we tried to make this.
A seed company that sold again, it's it's hard.
We sold seeds. We didn't sell genetics. Right.
We were trying to show you how to grow.
And again, when we came in with
overgrow the government. Right.
So like, yeah. So will you
back out? There we go.
Zippity do. So Zippity is another steeper strain.
The bongo, which is another strain that kind of came out.
Is that the menu that has the
Humboldt County Indica skunk one
Northern Lights five by Humboldt County Indica.
Now, again, what's Humboldt County Indica?
Some guy fucking, you know, was out in Humboldt and fucking grabbed
a bag of fucking crazy indica pot and brought back to see maybe, you know,
was you're from that area.
Oh, I mean, dude, when I I think I may have mentioned it
on the previous show or something, but like on dead tour,
one of the most common things you'd ever hear was what kind of weed is this?
And they'd be like, oh, it's Humboldt County outdoor organic nugs.
Yeah. Yeah. OK.
It was kind of it was like it was like one of those catch phrases. Right.
Like, oh, it's that it's that Humboldt County Indica.
It's like, oh, it's that Humboldt County Indica.
It's like, oh, it's that Humboldt County Indica.
It's like, oh, it's that Humboldt County Indica.
It's like, oh, it's that it's that Humboldt County Indica.
It's that Humboldt County outdoor.
It's that good. Good.
It's that what you want, you know, and who knows if it was.
But it was just like that was the that was the if you weren't from California,
that was the famous place that good weed came from.
Right. You know, that's that that cartoon guy there,
the marching seed, that was the overgrowth of government.
Yeah, I want I want to borrow this from this artist.
I want to talk to him, see if he'll let us use it.
And this is awesome because he's like I said, he's
I don't even think I sent you all of them
because I'm not sure exactly which ones Chris sent me.
But like I said, a lot of them that he sent me.
Were like some of the Purple Star stuff.
Black Dominus stuff.
That's my dog.
Yeah, I'll have to send you some more because there's tons of stuff
that he sent me.
That I think you have a lot of the stuff there.
It is pretty cool with the seed, the angry seed with the army,
you know, and the bong and he's charging, you know,
that's it's a good it's a it's a good cannabis image.
So I just sent you something else on Signal.
I don't know if you can get it, but it has again has some more of our.
Our version of why Hemp Nation was formed.
OK, basically what it was, I think we kind of, you know, back in the Reagan days,
we had no action to that Nixon coined that war on drugs.
Right. And they saw cannabis as a fucking
schedule one fucking same as heroin, cocaine, drug.
Right. It was it was it was more like
weed was people that used weed.
Yeah. Didn't vote for Nixon.
Right. People that used weed were minorities and antiwar protesters
and Dems and groups that they had issues with at the time.
So it was a useful club and that they could use it to attack
groups that didn't affect them.
Well, pretty much with
with the the war on drugs,
you know, we took it as, you know, a war against us.
Right. Us versus them.
So we formed Hemp Nation.
Hemp Nation was formed and built in a regiment that was militant
in a sense. Right.
So the marching seed, right.
The one artwork I just sent you is HB post dreads
in a tank, you know, that has a bong as it's
cannon kind of thing. Yeah.
And it's because we were there to fight the battle.
Right. So I feel that way.
I mean, I think that that well, one of the things
I almost thought about mentioning it was that, you know, because
because you're a citizen of both places.
Yeah. Right. You've been able to move back and forth.
Right. Where a lot of us get trapped on one side of the other.
Fighting the battle, you know, you get wrapped up in something
and they're like, oh, no, you can't come back here anymore.
Not you. No.
You know, you stay.
Oh, yeah. So that's one there.
So see with the cannon, right, like we we formed like I was minister.
Oh, it shows me on the left to as minister of agriculture. Right.
Yeah. My God. Yeah.
I know it's fucked up, but I just got kicked off and shit like that.
But so I was minister of agriculture and on Sundays I would have
the little grow, grow talks, grow seminars kind of thing.
And we would, you know, with the middle panel there, we'd show you
how to set up a little garden in your closet, stuff like that. Right.
So, yes, Sundays from one till five.
Yeah. Right.
And it was the tank.
Yeah. And that's the tank. And that's us behind him. Right.
Like so he because Chris was and you can see the bond has the water
in the whole fucking bit.
Yeah, it's so funny, you know, and that that's what I say.
Like the the coin overgrow the government
came from and there will be more artwork that will actually show it.
What the hell was Andrew's thing?
So he was like.
Minister of Defense, that was his thing.
Right. So we had Minister of Knowledge, which was Sarah,
and she took care of the library and the museum.
And then we had Minister of Labor, which is Billy.
He took care of the retail store, Minister of Agriculture,
took care of the seeds and Minister of Defense.
And that was Andrew, who was quite.
Angry, he was the angriest of us all.
The way that the government was treating us kind of thing.
And because of his super fucking talent, he put it to
to drawings.
And if you walked into Hemp Nation back in the day, one, we had the Hemp Nation
flag that's there, right, the pot leaf, the green pot leaf.
Right. In the in the red, red bars.
Can you flag?
But then that was.
Probably like.
20 feet by 40 feet in our front window.
Right. So we like I'm getting back to it's we were
we were fighting the war on drugs and we formed a nation and Chris.
Chris didn't have a ministry.
He was a grand cola.
He was he was the head.
He was the fuck in the one that told us kind of what we were doing
and how to not maybe how to do it, but what he wanted to see done.
Yeah. You know.
So getting back to seeds, because I know we were getting pretty long on our time.
I found my chemo seats.
Oh, awesome.
And now they're in this little fucking container
and it's just written chemo and there's.
There's how many seeds is like five seeds and a little tiny fucking seeds.
Yeah. Which I think is the
UBC, because the the Ottawa cut, which.
You know, I thought the chemo came from.
I, I believe 100 percent I was wrong or we were wrong when we thought that
wasn't really chemo, but it was a chemo that we knew.
Yeah. And it was better than the chemo.
Man, it was a fucking crazy, strong, fat, nasty fucking plant nug.
Where the UBC chemo was very quaint and pink and floral.
Like it was it didn't have that same rusty fucking greasy smell.
Yeah. But that's a good way to describe something rusty.
Yeah. Right. You know, like it was rusty.
It was like a you know, it's like you would get hit
with a fucking metal pipe kind of high.
It was fucking crazy, strong kind of stuff.
So now this is the other thing you guys know.
The history on gelato, right? Yeah.
OK. I came across seeds.
That I came in, but I'm pretty sure and it's hard.
You won't be able to see it, I don't think.
But I swear it says gelato.
Now, these seeds are from
the 90s. This seed pack box was from the 90s.
Gelato. They wouldn't be related.
You know, probably just a similar name.
Yeah. Yeah. If it again, this is where I was kind of getting at before where
why is it called gelato?
Well, guy grew a fucking plant, a seed
smoked it. Fuck tastes like gelato.
Yeah. I'm going to call it gelato. Yeah.
So maybe that's what it is. I don't know.
But again, where did gelato come from?
How was it made? Shit like that.
Go through quickly again.
The nebula. Oh, yeah. Yeah. That's cool.
I really like Luke and him and I get along quite well.
I probably get along best with Luke out of all the
seed people there.
Arjan, whose name I don't even know if I'm pronouncing properly
because some call him Arjan, but I always call him Arjan.
He's never corrected me.
I think that's right. Arjan.
Yeah. Arjan.
My New York accent doesn't let me say certain words, certain ways.
Yeah. Can't say cauliflower.
Yeah. Reason.
I really like him.
I really like Luke as a person.
So I love I love his genetics.
I've heard that a lot, too, about him that people really do like him.
And then the homegrown fantasies, the blue haze.
That's cool. Yeah.
So now so with the blue haze here.
These seeds in here are not the.
Seeds from the pack.
Got these seeds in this pack are from when we grew out the blue haze.
And we picked a male and a female.
And we used the male to pollinate my golden haze
that we said before the skippa.
Yeah. Well, we kept of we kept we chose one of the females
and bred our own blue haze.
Yeah. So it's not going to be the exact.
It's not their seed, but it's a seed that we use to make their seed.
So being
maybe not an open population
where we used all the males and all the females, we did choose.
A female.
Sorry, we choose.
We put more thought into the male than we did the female.
We chose the female, but we were looking for that male
that I would want to cross with the golden or skip one
and cross with the golden haze.
Sure.
And then we get so.
Oh, so then we get into like, oh, that's new, too.
Um. So the the
original pack being skunk one, not from Santee again,
going back to that age.
Yep. And then we on that last catalog,
you'll see that we carried a skunk one.
So these are the one seeds that I made
using the skunk one seeds from Amsterdam again.
Breeding for seed production, not for genetic.
Sure. And then we did the pure skunk.
OK, the pure from flying Dutchman.
Yeah. So same thing.
So did it did do what we wanted?
Because I keep calling him Eddie, I don't know who's flying Dutchman.
Eddie. It is Eddie.
OK, so he was again
one from what I'm told, one of the original skunk.
Holders, let's say, and sellers over there.
Yeah. But so he was one that had like, let's say, the oldest lineage
in Amsterdam for the skunk one.
I was hanging out with one of his staff.
In 90, I speak,
I think it was it was 90, 99.
It was 99.
That is hanging out with chick again.
And I know that word gigolo came up in some sort of post someplace, right?
That Karen from the Amsterdam hired me as a gigolo.
Yeah. Yes. About that. Right.
And it's true. I mean, I fucking Camille has pictures of me
wearing a pink fucking thong.
What a badass. Yeah.
Well, I mean, I fucking.
It's awesome.
I work in booth and I was like, she's like, you're paying for me to be here.
I kind of know why, because the years before
I would go around and fucking pick up all the fucking cutest
fucking pot girls from usually all the booths, other seat.
Hence why Tony from SAG probably doesn't like me very much
if he even remembers this, but
she sold all female apparel because she had Sativa sisters
bed and breakfast in Vancouver.
Right. So it was animus related Airbnb for before their Airbnbs.
And and she had the Amsterdam seed to seed seed company.
So I was like, well, I can't wear the shirts or anything.
I was like, fuck it. You know what?
I wear a pink thong under my pants.
Right. I wasn't walking around and fucking the cup with a pink thong.
And, you know, when it came time for photos,
you know, I hike the thong up a little bit and pull my ass out
so you can see it. And and it's got to be a little bit sexy.
Yeah. Listen, the girls like to do that.
But if it works, you know, I was like, oh, fuck. Yeah, it worked.
Dude, I was getting fucking God knows everything.
Lucky I didn't come back with something more than seeds from that trip.
But, you know, I was just talking about Camille.
I just found the Kalazar.
Right. So again, one of the like I used to sell his seat
for for him as well.
I don't think I did much.
You know, this is totally random,
but I saw earlier on your seed catalog that you were offering that you guys
it looks like you guys did like some like early pearl and some other
reproductions of those.
Yeah. Do you have any of that stuff left?
I don't I didn't see any of that so far in my my runnings.
I did find like maybe we're talking about the green spirit.
Yeah. Right. So I found we did a blueberry green spirit kind of seed back then.
Green spirit was Big Bud Skunk One, Matt.
Is that what it was? Yeah, I think so.
I think you're right. Yeah, it's it sounds familiar.
Big Bud Skunk One, I think.
I think it was based.
I think it was that big skunk that you had.
And then it went and then I think you were talking about it earlier.
I think big skunk turned into scentsy skunk.
Yeah. And then I think since and then it needed another rebranding.
And so it became green spirit, you know.
Right. I knew the rebranding part of it where the name came from.
But, you know, again.
Names are names to a certain degree, but the early girl, early pearl,
anything that said early in it, we liked, we wanted.
And so when people were coming back, if we knew people were going to Amsterdam,
we're like, dude, pick up the early pearl, pick up the early girl, pick up fucking
anything that they say finishes in, you know, under 50 or 50,
55 days kind of thing. We need that for our outdoor.
Right. We need for our indoor, too, because we wanted.
We didn't want to fucking grow out
14 week fucking strains.
But for me, hence why you'll see that, you know,
the Mexican sativas and all these other fucked up strains
that you just can't grow. People don't grow, unfortunately, and stop growing.
Unfortunately, like we've got, we've kind of bred the sativas out of what we're,
you know, now we're kicking ourselves in the ass saying, well, we need to start,
you know, bringing them back in because people want to get high.
They don't want to get stoned.
There's a lot of people, even today, there's famous people that are like,
they have a hard cut off at nine, nine or 10 weeks is like the upper limit
of how long most people will let their strain go.
Right. Even 12 is rare for most people.
Like you tell someone it takes 12 weeks, they're not interested.
And then there's some people who take it to 12, no matter what.
No matter where, no matter what.
People have to take it to 12.
Yeah. No matter what.
People have their sweet spots.
Yeah, they do. Oh, that's something else.
So, again, another fucking because.
Oh, there you go.
There you go. The early sensei star kind of stuff.
Right. Again, I don't know.
And you know what's funny about that is, is that's one of the things that it got
released, I think, in ninety five or ninety six.
Yeah. Yeah. And Luke will still not reveal what he what made it.
Yeah. No, really?
No, no. Won't say a word.
Won't say a word, even though even though it was 27 years ago
or something like that or 28 years ago and it's like so ancient at this point.
He still won't be. I took this in this and made sense.
Yeah. Nobody can possibly remake it either.
I'm going to try. I'll try.
I'll send him a picture of that.
I'll make sure I sell his number and I'm going to ask him, you know, what he made.
Now, it'd be cool. He asked me not to reveal it.
I'm not going to reveal it. Yeah, of course.
But I would like. No, I never even thought about it.
I just like fuck. I like his fucking his eye.
I like what he's looking for.
Yeah. I love this sidekick.
Oh, I mean, I'm not trying to like throw him under the bus or anything like.
Oh, no, I like.
I like Simon from Serious Seeds, but he's never revealed what AK
47 or Kali Mist has in it either.
Yeah. And those things are just as old.
Yeah. It's like, come on, dude.
It's been almost three decades. Just tell us what.
It's not like I can get how in the mid 90s they were like,
I'm not going to tell you what's in the secret sauce
because I don't want someone to steal it.
But now it's been so long.
Good luck finding the parents anyway.
Good luck finding the ingredients to make the sauce.
No, there's no way.
But what it probably comes down to is they just don't want to admit
who they got it from, who got jobs or what?
Or just the fact that like, oh, this came from Neville
and this came from this person or this came from like they don't.
They just don't want to say.
Well, see, I got some of those Belladonna to say that's cool.
Oh, yeah. Look at that. Good score.
I mean, it's something again what they are.
And I thought that I sent that to to read
because I didn't even know we made them fast beer.
Oh, that's cool.
Oh, that is cool.
These this is what we we won.
Well, we knew when the cognitive game in second or third with it
or something like that. Placed.
Yeah, we played.
Yeah. And it was fucking outdoor.
We placed with. That's pretty cool. Right.
And it wasn't because the pot was that good.
I think it's because I was a fucking gigolo slut that way.
And it was honor the goddess here.
And I know why.
This is my story.
Why I say Steve stole my medal is because I hope he sees this.
And he's going to get you.
I mean, I don't give a fuck.
He's going to laugh at it, too, because he's good.
They they know it's true.
We grew out the in the outdoor field.
We grew out all those old Neville strains again going by the story.
I've been told
the Ortega was a very large part of it
because it had the biggest
probably history.
Yeah. And a meal.
But then there was the fast fatty, the fast spear and the nightingale.
That were these really tall, dangly fucking sativas.
Well, I like sativas.
I was in the field every day working.
I wanted to smoke sativas.
I didn't want to get stoned.
I couldn't afford to get stoned.
Wanted to get high.
So when when it came time to enter the cup.
All those guys
said nothing.
They want nothing to do with the fast beer.
They wouldn't smoke it.
Didn't get him high.
I didn't want to smoke.
I didn't smoke the Ortega because it got me too stoned.
Yeah, I smoked a sativa.
And they're like, yeah, dude, this doesn't fucking garbage garbage.
If you want to take it, take it.
But, you know, so I took it because I wanted it.
Yeah. I also knew that it was honor the goddess.
The girls, you know, Hillary was part of the
the one of the judges, one of her sidekicks.
I forget her name.
Beautiful little blonde girl was was was also asked to be a judge,
you know, and I knew that's what they're after.
It was organically grown outdoor.
So full sun, organically grown sativa.
That's Panty Remover, you know?
So I we we won.
Now, did we win because it was best part?
No, we won because there was fucking these Canadians
were dumb enough to fucking fly kilos of cannabis
in their backpacks into fucking Amsterdam.
We didn't have a coffee shop to sell it out of.
Right. So we had to sell stickers for 40 guilders.
And you got a free eighth a pot. Yeah.
And it was a way like we were getting in trouble
because you can't sell pot at the Cannabis Cup.
Right. It was wherever it was being held.
I forget what it's called.
But, you know, so we were finding, you know, by a sticker.
We sold these one hitters at Shockwave Glass made for us.
And and and it was.
It was. A type of pot that I knew
was going to be loved by the judges.
And the story. And so I played up all that.
And that's I think why we won the cup.
It had nothing to do really so much with being great pot.
You know, it didn't.
But it got the girls dancing, got the girls jiggling.
And that's that's what was selling it kind of thing.
So, um, so, yeah, we talk about science.
So I kept his chronic, right, because Simon, when I when I was saying
earlier, I did a little I was invited to talk at the Cannabis Cup
about Canadian cultivation.
It was mainly super cropping.
And I don't know what Simon was talking about,
but him and I shared shared a stage.
And and I think Steve was invited when he was at the cup.
So they asked him to speak as well.
And it's when I picked up the Russian
because it was the AK-47 was this huge deal.
But he kept raving about the Russian and it was fairly new.
And I this is might have been a few years old.
I'm not sure when it came out, but.
I believe it came out in like the mid late 90s,
and this would have been ninety nine. Yeah.
And he raved and raved about it so much that we brought back Steve.
And he's talking about the white Russian.
Yeah. And I still grow it.
And I still love it.
It's it was one of our it's one of our best sellers at the same.
I have an old white Russian cut. Yeah, dude.
And I think it's the fucking the bomb.
White Russian is a key.
He says, you know, it's a good line.
Dude, it's so I mean, the one thing I'll say about Simon is that,
you know, he basically sold the same six strains for like 20 years or something.
And I think the chronic is terrible.
But yeah, the bubble gum and the AK47 and the Kali mist
and the white Russian are all real.
And now their era, they're all really nice.
Do you know the triple X?
Strange, I mean, I know of it, but I've never had any experience.
Where is it from?
Because I always thought it was from Simon because he has his triple X
in the fucking in the logo logo. Right.
Yeah. I don't know where that comes from.
I don't I don't have any.
I don't have any. I don't have any like tidbits on that one or whatever.
But I can say that that his his AK47
and his Kali mist and white Russian in the 90s.
Yeah, they were phenomenal pot in that era.
Yeah. And they were when they were really, they were really there.
He had really good strains.
The again, that's how is your phone going to die?
It is. But I'm going to I'm going to be here until it just it's like,
well, I'm going to go through.
I don't have a few more because you don't care about Butch's Beaver.
I don't know what it is, but it's from the state
because it has a Marlboro fucking symbol on it.
It says Nevada City, California.
Hmm. Latitude.
So I've never even heard of Nevada City.
No, I don't know. Right.
Did we just lose him because of this?
Yeah, his phone is all right. All right.
So then the other things that we get to is,
oh, we're talking about with
SOL, this like this is his plumb.
But the plumb. Yeah, I remember you mentioned.
Yeah. Again, I'm not sure
what it is.
I have my speculation, but after certain conversations,
it would be something that Steve or Red might be able to explain more.
I have what I thought it was, and I just thought it was a Fino of.
A certain cross that that Steve did that, you know, where the sweet tooth came from.
I'm not sure.
And then this one's called Blonde Bastard.
So every time that is STB and three, which.
Is a strawberry blonde that you had
in Switzerland, and I thought it was crossed
with the.
It's whatever the mail from the Louis.
Which. I think this was a tooth.
Yeah, I think this was with.
And that's why I think the SB stands for.
So I think it's those sweet tooth crossed with the strawberry, strawberry blonde.
And it says SB STB, so sweet tooth.
The tooth blonde.
Yeah, blonde or back cross.
But it has the M3 and maybe maybe I can ask Red.
He might know because that he might.
Right. So it might be the because if I remember correctly,
Steve had a sweet tooth male.
I think I think he had again.
This would be better for Steve, for Steve or for Red.
But they just stuck it in the corner behind a fan and fucking hit it.
It just flooded the whole room.
And and that's where, you know, they made the Louis
and they made a few other strange separate.
And then stick with his stuff is the big funk and the sweet tooth number four.
But these are these are mailed from him because they're actually in
the core class, how we used to mail. Yeah.
Before and then the last but not least is the blueberry.
Now, very cool.
Where these are coming from that same era, just judging by what they're packaged in.
Yeah. So judging by the
big funk. Right.
Which is which is a spice of life, early genetics.
What blueberry was coming through then and were those
how closely DJ was working with those guys at that time?
I would imagine this is probably from that era.
Judging by, you know, it's
judging by a sweet tooth or being a part of that era.
They all came in the same envelope from the same era kind of thing.
So it's not I don't know if it's the ninety three,
you know, but the ninety three like I just keep it is as a
as a mom.
Kind of. Yeah, I did.
I think it'd be cool to do an open pollination with that for the ninety three.
His mom cut in there and.
Yeah. Like I had some of his like old stuff.
Some of the stuff he released last year, the year before.
Yeah. He doesn't even touch that anymore.
It's as though someone else doing it all.
Yeah, I understand that, too.
I understand that who was doing it.
But, you know, the fact that the
you know that what's in it, the thing is, you know, do they breed?
Have they bred out what DJ was
looking for?
Because now they're breeding for what they're looking for.
It's just what I'll say is like after going and spending
tens of thousands of dollars on blueberry and short stuff and hunting it very specific.
I wanted a blueberry plant that looked like blueberry purple,
but smelled like blueberry jam, you know, just the whole.
And I didn't find that in anything directly from DJ short.
I found that from hybrids of DJ short stuff
or people that worked his lines further that weren't him
and weren't his son.
But I found it and I did find it eventually in other stuff that had his work in it.
Like you couldn't find it without his work in it.
I don't think it was an important part.
You would like my B93.
My B93 doesn't go blue, doesn't go purple,
but it has that pint of blueberry, not that fake blueberry smell.
But yeah, the blueberry really rich fucking blueberry smell.
Yeah.
And again, it comes from that era, which that seed.
I wouldn't be surprised if I had a few of those seeds.
So I would maybe those seeds are from that that early 90s.
Yeah, I think so. But
that's it for what I kind of pulled out for you guys, except for I know I did a
a sweet tooth blueberry, a berry, berry cross, because I really like that.
Very awesome.
I'm not going to get into all the other stuff because a lot of the stuff
probably won't really overly interest
anybody, but it'll give you an idea of what my goals were.
Sure. My phone, my my thing's going to die, too, unfortunately.
But.
It's super fast and most importantly, the quality is top notch.
I've been saving old designs for years for this purpose.
So please check it out.
Syndicategear.com.
We also have an underground syndicate
discord where we get together and solve old strain history together daily.
It's an amazing community of learning away
from IG, and it's an amazing resource for old catalogs and knowledge.
We hope you join our union of breeders and growers.
Come check it out.
