I can see you!
I've been watching you!
I'm going to go meet my special friends.
Hi!
Remember, you can't tell anyone.
What you saw happened more than 50 years ago.
The five-year-old girl followed her brother's advice.
She never told anyone about her experience.
In fact, suppressed the memory deep inside herself.
But her brother Steve remembered.
About ten years ago, my sister called.
And she told me that she just had hypnosis.
And was thoroughly upset with me that I didn't tell her about my little grey friends.
Which was a mystery to me because she was there.
And she'd kind of taken over my friends.
What is the problem here? Why doesn't she know about it?
And to this day, it's a total mystery why she doesn't remember.
In 1992, I was in the hospital with a very serious illness for three months.
And I went home and it took several months for me to get back to normal.
And during that period of time, I started thinking about...
You guys are going to make me cry.
For the next year after I was recuperating from my illness,
I started thinking about UFOs and not necessarily aliens, but UFOs.
And I really wanted to get some information on them.
I wasn't really sure why because I'd never really been interested in them before.
I'd never read anything about them.
I had heard that people had been hypnotized and found out information.
And I wondered if maybe there was something in my past that would have something to do with this.
Because it just came up all of a sudden.
And so I went to a hypnotherapist and I was hypnotized.
And it came up. I really didn't believe that I had anything.
I didn't remember anything. Nobody had ever said anything.
But in my hypnotherapy, it came up that I was...
When I was very small, I was walking with my brother down by this river.
And we'd seen a spacecraft and that we'd gone on board.
And it didn't upset me. It was very interesting to me.
But I didn't really believe it. I thought, it's just really my imagination.
And I don't understand hypnosis and I don't know what this is all about.
So I called my brother and I said, I had the strangest thing happen.
And I had hypnosis.
And I said that I remember you and I going down by the river and seeing these aliens in a spaceship.
He says, do you remember anything?
He said, well yeah, don't you remember going and meeting our little friends?
I said, no, I didn't remember anything about it.
And he told me that as children we used to go play with the aliens down by the river.
And I asked him if he knew any more.
And he said no, that he didn't remember anything else, but he thought there was more.
And that he knew that I went with them all the time as a child.
And he didn't understand why I couldn't remember.
And I tried, but there wasn't anything in my memory of any of that at all.
So I underwent hypnosis several more times.
And some more stuff came out about aliens and spaceships and my brother.
It kind of got confusing to me because I didn't really understand what was going on.
I didn't remember why I couldn't remember any of it.
And so I called some of my friends.
And one of my friends, Bill, said, well yeah, don't you remember the time the light came and chased my car?
I said, no, I didn't remember anything like that.
I didn't remember anybody telling me about UFOs or anything, any time.
And so he told me the story.
And then I called a couple other friends and they said yeah, they'd seen stuff.
And had different kinds of encounters.
And that they remembered all of it.
And I didn't remember, still didn't remember anything.
Kind of in my search to find out what the truth was for me, I decided I'd try to be a remote viewer.
And so in 1995, I was trained as a remote viewer and worked as a remote viewer for four years.
And was very successful.
And with remote viewing you can see UFOs and craft and ETs.
And I think I felt at that time it was real.
But it still wasn't real to me.
And about in August it just came back and said, I have to tell this story.
And I called my brother and my friends and said, are you guys ready to talk about the story?
And they said yes.
And that's where we are now.
Remembering the incident, it's just like we were just sitting there talking, verbally.
Describe the three of us.
They were both the same size.
They were about, oh gosh, they must have been three and a half or four foot high.
Both the same size.
They had little bitty noses that may have protruded an eighth of an inch.
And two little nostril holes.
And real thin lips and small mouths.
And their mouths didn't move.
Their eyes didn't move.
Their eyes are totally black.
And their eyes go sideways.
You see all these ET pictures here and there.
And the eyes go up.
They slant up.
These don't slant up.
They go straight across.
But they're almond.
And they're big.
In the last few months, I've kind of discovered that every time I talk about it,
boy, I don't know why.
Both Linda and her brother Steve agreed to undergo hypnosis.
But you want to see your friends.
Remember, that's what we're here for.
To see your friends.
Can't you push through the black space?
No, I can't.
Why?
I want to.
Come on.
I can't.
Push through it.
I'm trying to.
Push through it.
I can't.
I want to.
You get to see your friends.
I can't.
I can't go.
Is someone stopping you?
No.
Nothing.
I just can't go.
Did anybody else meet your friends?
Did you ever take your sister to meet your friends?
Yeah, my sister went.
You're doing great, Steve.
You're doing great.
But when you took your sister, that's your sister Linda?
I would just go, maybe.
Every time you went, they were there?
Yep.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You really seen them more than one time, didn't you?
I think so.
Yeah.
Many times?
I think so.
Yeah.
But they were kind?
Yes.
Did they smile?
No.
I can't smile.
How come?
Their eyes?
Yes.
Are they very big?
They gots.
How would you describe their eyes?
What kind of body do they have?
Do they have a body like yours?
Skinny.
Really skinny body?
Skinny body?
But you get kind of emotional when you think about your friends, don't you?
Yeah.
Is it an emotional happy feeling?
Yes.
So the emotions are happy feelings?
Yes.
Yes.
So that's why you're crying, because you're happy?
I think so.
Yeah.
I think.
So these friends were nice to you?
Yes.
I don't know why I can't talk about it.
I don't find that people can fake ab reactions and hypnosis,
and ab reaction might be something like a cold sweat, a shake, nervousness, some kind of a body movement.
I haven't found that to be something that seems to be easily faked.
Hudak's work was followed by sessions with Dr. R. Leo Sprinkle.
My name is Leo Sprinkle.
I'm a counseling psychologist in Laramie, Wyoming.
I served as a professor at the University of Wyoming for 25 years.
Like any UFO researcher, I'm always interested in more information, more knowledge about UFO phenomena, about ET encounters.
However, personally, because of my own UFO experiences, I'm always impressed with the courage, the strength of character that it takes for someone to come forward and discuss his or her experience.
And anybody who does this knows that there are not only social risks, but in some cases there are vocational, professional risks, and even some people, security for their families or even their own lives.
And so I always am impressed whenever people are willing to take the risk to come forward to talk about their experience.
Many of the hypnosis sessions were monitored by a medical doctor.
I've been present at many hypnosis sessions dealing with the UFO phenomenon.
What interested me most was the physiologic response of the subjects.
I've witnessed a racing pulse, quickening of breathing, stiffening of the body, fear, pain, and the disappearance of fear and pain as a hypnotic suggestion.
In my opinion, these physiologic effects would not be faked.
These were real experiences. The subjects were feeling pain or fear or seeing frightful objects or happy times or real emotions.
Deer Lodge, a small tight-knit community lying in this picturesque valley in Montana.
Clean place, quiet place. Nice place to live.
Howdy, I'm Joe Mars. I'm here to tell you one of the most fascinating stories I've encountered in my years as a journalist and author.
You see, every little town has its secrets, but this town has a secret that's, well, out of this world. Let's check it out.
Linda's quest led her on a journey back to her roots, back here to Deer Lodge. Population 3,000, a relic of the mining boom.
Most of the young folks' only concern was how to get out of here.
Linda contacted old friends and high school chums and was amazed to find out that they too had had strange and unusual experiences.
Intrigued, Linda began to uncover the town's incredible secret.
Linda spoke to many of the town's folks. Some didn't want to go public, but others agreed to speak to the camera.
The ladies and their husbands were up at an area out of town. They were snowmobiling.
And when they were coming back, no, they were at the campfire, I'm sorry, they were at the campfire, and all of a sudden the dogs started going crazy. They heard a sound.
My name is Verda Claussen, and I live here in Deer Lodge.
We were up at Orofino snowmobiling, and Helen Schaefer was with me.
Helen Schaefer was with me, and the group left us by the campfire, and it was a black night.
We were standing around the campfire by ourselves, and we had our dog Andy, and the hair on Andy's back stood up.
We were in the mountains, and the men had gone snowmobiling, and we were kind of waiting around the fire, and all of a sudden we could hear this.
Then we heard some noises, and they were kind of high-pitched.
Beep, beep, beep, beep.
Beep, beep, beep, beep, beep.
It wasn't a fast noise, it was just a slow noise.
It was a high-pitched beep-beep kind of sound.
We all got scared. It was a freaky noise.
We knew there were no power lines or anything up in that area, so we knew that it couldn't be anything like that.
The guys said up on the top of the mountain, they didn't see any tracks of any sort.
Because people had been seeing UFOs around at that time.
We were ready to go home. It was scary.
It was something that we didn't know what it was.
We're used to the timber and up in the mountains and that, but this was a sound that we'd never heard before.
People had talked a lot about spaceships at that time, and we just imagined, well, maybe that's what it was.
I'm Elaine, and I'm a friend of Buck and Helen Schaefer.
Helen Schaefer is Buck's spouse.
Buck is deceased, but he did tell me about an encounter that he had.
I can't remember if it was morning or evening, but he is going down the road and does see a light.
Just all of a sudden a light hovering over the road, and he did stop and it took off.
He said, I know it was a UFO, I think is how he referred to it, as a UFO.
I'd go up in one if I had a chance.
This leads to an area known as Red Gate.
It used to be the favorite teen parking spot, you know what I mean.
They called it Red Gate because at the entrance was an old wooden gate, very much like this one, painted red.
This was the hub of all the strange activity.
What we're talking about tonight is the legend of Red Gate.
Tell me what you know about the legend of Red Gate.
The way I heard it from my own dad was there was an old man, and somehow or another he had gotten in trouble.
There was an involvement with some, I think it was his sons that had gotten killed or murdered on his homestead out there just to the east of town.
Everybody just seemed to think it was a possessed area, something with the devil.
But nobody seemed to know the whole story behind it or why it was supposedly possessed.
When we were in high school, the exciting thing to do was to drive up to Red Gate and try to scare anybody that you could.
The story was that there was a man that had killed his family up there some way or another.
The story that I heard was that he had painted the gate with blood, and that's how the name Rye Gate came.
Red Gate was the only place that I knew of that you could go and just being in the place, being in that place, being in the area, was a very spooky, very scary place to be.
As with most urban legends, the blood on the gate story proved false.
This story of the blood on the gate and all of this stuff, I never had heard of that my whole life growing up, that particular story.
The only thing I ever knew about were these lights and everything.
A check with the local sheriff showed there was no record of such a crime, but something even stranger turned up.
I'm Scott F. Howard, Powell County Sheriff.
I have had rumors or heard that other people in the community have had encounters with UFOs.
Does that go back over a period of years?
Yes. Most of the reports that I've heard have been on the east side of Deer Lodge.
I've heard of a spot that's been called Red Gate on the east side of Deer Lodge.
The sheriff directed me here to this bakery owned by Louie Manacucci.
Louie and his family for many years lived in the Red Gate area.
Boy, did he have some stories to tell.
Just a circle, and then down on the bottom here, it's kind of concave.
Well, I wouldn't say it's concave to straight because it's always at night.
But around there, all the way around this deal, is lights.
They blink all the way around like that.
Since it's in the night, what is this? Is the big part?
All you can see is just an image of something there.
An image of dark with this little ring in the middle.
Have you ever seen the top of one?
No.
Right. One time during the night, one light set down.
I climbed up the mountain behind me and I went to peek up over the top to get a look down in there.
I was just about 10 feet from the top of the mountain and that sucker, gone.
Either they had sensors or it could be us. It could be the United States.
That's what I kind of figured.
It's water and holes such as this that form the center of the town's social activity.
As the night grows longer, so do the stories.
Stop and Go Comets, that was 12 or 13 years ago.
I'd been around 90, 91.
Just spotted what looked like maybe it was a meteorite or a small comet.
But it didn't hang like a comet.
It would move, get real bright, kind of leave a trail and it would stop.
It would move another direction and stop.
And did that, I don't know, I guess 3, 4, 5 minutes.
I always watch the skies all the time and see these lights.
It was dead silent.
It'd make your hair stand up on the back of your neck.
And we'd go out there and mess around and they'd tell the story on the way up.
There's different versions but it pretty much was the same.
It was a lot of fun.
It was a lot of fun.
And we'd go out there and mess around and they'd tell the story on the way up.
There's different versions but it pretty much was the same.
Story with the blood on the gate.
They said that people's vehicles had stalled.
When we'd go and meet at Tom Pumper at the Safeway Park and Walk,
that's where all high school kids met at,
we would say, do you guys want to go up to Red Gate?
We'd go up to Red Gate.
I felt a chill down my spine and I was being watched.
I didn't know, watched or stopped or...
Danger. There was danger.
It's more than eerie.
It even turns your stomach.
When you get that deep feeling like something ain't right
or you're reading into somebody's psyche or whatever it is,
you could almost fall.
It was so in your gut like get out of where you're at and you do.
Some people told of interaction with moving lights.
Mark Denton and I grew up near Lodge, Montana.
About 1960, 61, we're kind of riding around in the car
and up near the Emory Mine, which is east side of town, we saw some lights.
I was supposed to be one of the smart science kids in town
and at first I thought it might be a weather balloon with a light shining off of it
and it was not.
So one day we decided we'd chase the lights to find out what it was.
We're going to get it. We're going to get it. Hurry. Go. Go faster.
We did that probably twice within a three-week period.
Mark, go faster.
There was a light. We did chase it. Never caught it.
I have heard a lot of the other stories and so...
one can speculate from there.
At least two people remembered stories of physical events involved with the strange lights.
Tom Gilbert recalled a story from high school.
My name is Tom Gilbert and I've lived here all my life.
Graduated in 1965 from Powell County High School.
What can you tell us about the red gate?
Well, there was some light coming down and melting the paint.
Oh yeah, we were good buddies, Skip and I. We worked together.
What did he tell you?
It seemed like this light just shined right down on his car
and there was some mark in the paint.
Dave Foster also remembered stories of red gate.
The story about red gate was, and the story that was related to me,
was these guys had been up to red gate
and what they'd seen was some lights coming down off the mountain
and the lights kind of stayed there a while and then they moved around a little bit
and then they started coming at them real fast.
These two guys were with two girls and sitting out there
and it kind of scared them a little bit
and the lights came at them real fast there towards the end
and it just kind of popped, went real white and then that was it.
And I guess when they got back to town, he was looking at the trunk of his car
and there was a little teeny burn mark right in the back of the trunk of his car
and other than that there was nothing at all.
Such stories didn't end in the 1960s and 70s, they continue to this very day.
Brandon Kent and Josh Garrison, two local students,
told us of their experience in the summer of 2003.
We were driving along and we saw a bright light kind of just hanging up in the sky
and it confused us because there was cloud cover
and it was too bright to be a star because it was
because it was beneath the clouds.
It was on the other side of the clouds, on our side.
And it just hung there for a second and then it just like zipped down into the ground
almost like it was crashing and then it was right back in the exact same spot
and it just repeated that action and then it just kind of disappeared.
We didn't see it after it zipped down.
On the way back we said, man what was that?
Because I mean we've never seen nothing like that.
We thought it was a falling star but there was cloud cover.
Unless it was two of them falling in the exact same way.
It looked like one dove down and one dove down after it lit up.
But it was definitely, there was low clouds, it was definitely low to the ground
and it shot down and I'm up in that area a lot hunting and never seen nothing like that.
It wasn't a plane, I mean I'm flying planes a lot, it wasn't a plane.
My dad's a pilot. I know what they look like going down and it was extremely fast.
It was just a solid, really bright light.
We've heard of some urban legends of the Red Gate up above there but it was in that Red Gate area.
Almost farther up the road.
We kind of call it.
On the left hand side of the road.
The east side of town up in the mountains.
Up by the Orifino campground.
Up towards the Orifino. It was right on the front side of Orifino in front of this mountain.
I've never seen nothing.
That was the first time I'd ever seen something like that.
Something that you couldn't just shake off.
That was a satellite, that was a star.
I've seen some stuff in the sky but nothing like that.
Nothing beneath the clouds and as bright and repeating itself that fast.
Dropping down within that mountain.
I thought I was crazy but I didn't say anything at first.
I just saw it go down and then these guys were like, whoa did you see that?
It was a bright glow, brighter than I've seen before.
It didn't light up the sky, it was more like seeing the sun drop down twice.
It was that bright but it didn't.
It was almost like if someone had a bright spotlight.
In the summer of 2003, just about a week and a half ago, it's July 30th today.
Me and my friends were out by Orifino and we were driving out.
We saw a light out in the field so we stopped and we started looking at it.
One of my friends was like, whoa that's moving around.
We're just like, whatever man, we don't really pay attention.
We started looking at it and we all started noticing that it was moving around out in the field.
Kind of roundabout ways, we're not really sure what about.
We look at it, an hour passes or so and we start driving down the road.
We're going pretty fast and we're all just staring at the light in amazement.
Watching it move like, what is that? What could it be?
We go up and we're driving along the road.
We almost hit deer and stuff but we're not paying attention to that.
We're paying attention to the light.
We pass it and we come back and we park and we're pretty close.
Probably about, I don't know, I'd say it was pretty close.
My friends say it was about a mile away but I think it was closer than that.
The light was about this big from where we could see it.
It looked like it was going around on a rotating disc almost.
There was three of them.
Hoping to gather more information, Linda turned to a once secret
U.S. Army Intelligence gathering process.
It's called remote viewing.
My name is Lynn Buchanan. I'm from Alamogordo, New Mexico.
I was one of the government's controlled remote viewers for eight and a half years.
And for the last seven and a half years of my time in service, I was the trainer of the unit.
Most people think that controlled remote viewing is the equivalent of being psychic.
Actually it's not.
What the government wanted was a method that could be taught to the dumbest grunt soldier
and have him tell his commander what was over the hill and where to point the guns.
And so they started off with those people who had natural psychic ability.
However, in the end, I know our last viewer had just been picked at random
out of the military's personnel computer.
A lot of people look on the internet for remote viewing and what they find is pure psychic stuff.
Controlled remote viewing was the scientific process that was developed in the laboratory
and used by the government and the military.
In essence, the subconscious mind tends to be very psychic,
but the conscious mind is not psychic at all.
And so the controlled remote viewing process is simply one where you set up a line of communications
between the subconscious mind and the conscious mind.
That way you can have a line of communications where you can ask the subconscious specific questions
and you can get back specific answers from the subconscious mind.
Of course, the obvious question for your purposes is whether or not this can be used to answer the UFO question.
The answer is yes, we answer questions.
If you have a question about some UFO event or some UFO landing site or some abduction,
we can find out whether or not the memory of that was false memory
or whether it was an actual event and that has happened.
If it's true, we can find out what actually happened beyond the things that the abductee remembers.
If it's a false memory, we can find out what happened to cause that false memory.
And so therefore this is actually a tool for finding information,
but you've got to remember that we go by the database.
We had many individuals within the government who asked us about UFO questions
and we wound up doing a good amount of UFO work on our own
for questions which were asked us by individuals within the government and it was unofficial tasking.
So I am picking my words very closely here.
The government never officially tasked us with any UFO questions.
Did we do a lot of UFO work?
We did a sizable amount and actually wound up still doing it,
sometimes for individuals within the government.
Hi, I'm Diane Moore and I am a professional remote viewer.
In 1995 I was trained by a retired military remote viewer in controlled remote viewing
and then in early 1996 I was trained in scientific remote viewing.
I'm Dee Leslie. I'm a trained professional remote viewer
and I'm director of instruction with Farsight Institute, which is a not-for-profit organization.
A double-blind remote viewing session is a session where the viewer not only has no clue what the target is,
but the person who is monitoring them has no idea what the target is either.
So your viewer and your monitor are not front-loaded at all.
The only thing the monitor has are the two four-digit coordinates.
In this particular project the coordinates were given by someone else that did not know what the target was.
Anyone involved in the viewing of these targets had no idea or had no information about the target.
Mmm, I'm getting raised features.
P4 and a half.
P4 and a half.
The one who's in control.
P4 and a half.
The one who understands.
I'm going to go meet my special friends.
I'm deducting telepathy.
That's it.
I look at this as an encounter between children and an E.T.
There was not any fear. It was a casual encounter.
These subjects are gray, rubbery texture to skin.
With large, heavy head.
As an additional guard against any possible fakery connected to such accounts,
some of the major witnesses in the Redgate case were submitted to a polygraph examination.
The lie detector showed no evidence of deception by anyone.
No.
Bill Kelly, a classmate of Leonard Cronquist, told of an experience he had as a young teenager
driving late at night with two friends along this very road.
We were leaving Deer Lodge after a dance and coming home down the back road.
We went around the corner heading down the back road and a bright light appeared in the rear view mirror.
It got very bright very fast.
That's kind of where it all started.
This was in 1962?
1962, summer of.
And you were with your brother?
I was with my brother Jack and a friend Kenny.
Immediately they looked in the back and it was coming at such a high rate of speed
that we couldn't explain what was going on.
So they just jumped in the back seat and kind of panicked a little bit.
Kind of yelling at me to speed up and stuff, but it got so bright I couldn't see the road to drive fast,
or to drive at all.
And as fast as it got bright, it got dark again.
And kind of in a state of semi-fear.
My name is Ron Kelly and many years ago when we were growing up,
my brothers Bill and Jack, I can remember them very specifically telling me about being out at night
and being out on the county road and the lights coming behind them.
Yeah, I know Billy Kelly well.
There was him and a couple other guys and there was light following their car.
Let yourself go back to the experience, driving along, the light is so bright and you're not sure what it is.
But let everything slow down in your perception.
Your mind is able to be aware of what the body is experiencing.
What does the body experience?
It's like the light.
They're in the back seat.
Every time?
In the front seat, I had to drive.
I had to drive.
I might get affected with this thing. This thing looks bad.
Is there somebody following us?
Who the hell would be out here this time of night?
I don't know but they're coming up fast.
And that thing's really moving.
We gotta go Bill, we gotta go.
Speed up Bill, speed up.
I can't, I gotta keep her on the road.
Oh man, I don't like this.
Damn that thing's bright.
What the hell is that thing?
Go faster Bill.
I can't, I gotta keep her on the road.
Oh shit.
You gotta go.
What the hell is it?
Look at that thing.
Bill!
Don't stop Bill, don't stop.
Don't look at it.
Don't stop Bill, don't stop.
Yeah, yeah, we gotta get home.
I'm not afraid.
I'm not afraid.
I'm not afraid.
I wasn't scared.
I'm not afraid.
Man, look at the size of that thing.
This is unbelievable.
This isn't good.
This isn't good.
But it's not good.
It hurts to see.
Um, P4 and a half.
There are three subjects.
Male, humans, athletic,
electromagnetic energy, pulsing.
Okay, I've got a sketch.
Let's see what we have.
Alright, I've got a subject.
And another one.
Strange.
Another one here.
Okay, it's some kind of a tube-like thing.
Such unworldly experiences did not occur in the
Such unworldly experiences didn't end with just Linda's friends.
Whatever it was, seemed to move through families, including her own.
My name is Doug Kroonquist.
And I was born in 1946.
And I call Deer Lodge home.
It would have to be between probably 50 and 52, I suppose.
If I was born in 46, 50 would make me 4, 52 would make me 6 years old.
Somewhere in there, there was a witch that was standing on me.
But I don't, you know, I was scared and terrified and whatnot,
but I was underfoot as being stood on.
And that's all I remember, is just being stood on by this witch.
Why did you have the idea it was a witch?
Probably had no idea what else to call it.
I mean, in Montana, 1950, you know, we didn't really even have Buck Rogers.
That was a city thing.
We didn't have things like that.
We had cowboys and Indians, and you know, we had Halloween.
We didn't have Buck Rogers.
That was, that was things that were strange to us.
I remember asking my brother several times, to the point where he was mad at me,
Steve, what's a skyscraper?
My wife and I went to Area 51.
It was in August of 1994.
That night, it was just starting to get dark, and it was extremely loud,
not loud, but bright flash off to our right,
which would be over towards the Rachel direction, over that way,
which I would say right now would be north.
I'm not sure as to my compass points, but off to our right, north,
just a huge bright flash, but no sound.
And later in the evening, we'd seen lights just zipping across the sky or whatever.
During a visit back to Montana some years ago,
Linda's own son had an unusual daytime experience.
Back in the early 80s, I was 12 or 13 years old,
and I accompanied my mother to Deer Lodge, Montana for a class reunion.
My sister and I both went with her.
During this time, we were out playing volleyball.
You hit it like a girl!
Oh, really?
It was very astonishing for me.
I didn't think I was going to be able to see such a thing.
At first, I thought it was a toy.
Do you see that?
I turned around to my sister, and I said,
Did you see that?
Where'd it go?
And as soon as I turned around, it was gone.
After that time, my sister and I never really spoke about it,
never really had any discussions about it,
just random recollection.
It was so clear that I was thinking,
if it was a toy,
then how can it be that big and be so far away?
It must be really big.
What did it look like?
It was a gray, gray, grayish metallic.
It wasn't shiny.
It was dull.
And it slanted up.
It was round.
And it slanted up from the sides.
And it kind of went in and had another little top on top of it.
I don't know if there's vents on the bottom.
Circular,
like fan things.
And I turned them back to her, and I said,
I think we just saw a UFO.
That was really weird.
She's like, yeah, that's cool.
P4 and a half.
I don't know.
P4 and a half.
There seems to be a male and female subjects.
They're human.
P4 and a half.
There's an object slash structure
behind and above the subjects.
P4 and a half.
There are non-human subjects in the object.
I think in this session what I picked up were a male and a female.
And they're engaged in some sort of outdoor activity.
And then they see something in the sky that's behind them and it's high above them.
What happens is that they see a spaceship.
Linda's son said a few years later he had an experience that was even more disturbing.
There was one occasion specifically that I remember.
I was lying in bed and I was in that type of sleep that was not really asleep but not really awake.
I saw this black shadowy figure coming towards me on the right side of my bed.
The figure itself wasn't scary at all.
But it was scary the fact that it was coming towards me.
It had a squarish type head if you want to call it.
And the rest of it, it looked like some sort of human shape.
A small human, blonde,
with a black hat and a black tie.
A small human, blonde.
A P4.5 small blonde human on rectangular surface in dark area.
This human has some type of electromagnetic field around him.
Okay.
Okay, this seems to be an event that's repeated.
P4.5, this nocturnal event is one that repeats.
Okay, other beings, curious, off world, intelligent, data gathering.
Intelligent, data gathering.
Short.
P4.5, several entities, non-human, from another dimension.
No relationship or concept of time, space.
Okay, summary.
Alright, basically this is a repeated type of event involving non-humans.
They come from off world, there's no abduction, there's some type of poking at the subject.
The subject has electromagnetic field above his head and feels nauseous.
And this seems to happen mainly at night.
And there's some type of black fuzziness associated with this event.
And it seems to be indoors in a bedroom.
She met with her brother Steve in Deer Lodge recently and they took me along as they retraced their steps to the place where they had visited with their little gray friends.
As the hot day grew on, their memories came flooding back.
They came to find some way out of the country kind of hillbilly kids that would never be afraid of them.
They're just light gray little guys.
We're standing right here looking at them and we're talking.
And they're looking at the river and I see them all the time.
Were you using your mouth? Talking to them with your mouth?
Oh sure, oh gosh no.
Were they talking to you with their mouth?
Oh gosh no.
They'd move their mouth a little bit but they didn't use their mouth.
They'd move it a little.
Were you getting words or pictures?
Words. Nope, no pictures. Words.
And she'd just chatter and chatter.
If I remember right, she's standing on this side.
Just chip, chip, chip to my friends.
The strange events surrounding Red Gate continued right on through Linda Kroonquist's immediate family and into her extended family.
I'm here today with her cousin, Linda.
Stephanie, do you recall any stories within your family of strange lights or strange events?
My aunt and uncle were living up in the mountains and she got up late one night to get a glass of water and she looked outside and saw this bright light.
So she went to the window to look out and she saw this, what she described as a football shaped, golden colored ball.
This golden colored globe out in the field, out in the pasture.
And she stood and watched it for a little bit and then she called for my uncle and told him to come out and look.
He got up and went out and they went out on their front porch and stood there and watched it.
And it stayed and then all of a sudden it took off into the air and hovered for a few minutes and then was just gone.
My aunt, Audreen Burke, mentioned that one early morning she was alarmed.
I don't remember the particulars there, but there was something out there in the hay field.
A light mechanism, you know, multi lights that I remember.
Tee! Tee!
It covers the whole pasture.
Oh my goodness.
Oh my goodness.
My aunt nor my uncle were the type just to say these things and to me I was convinced.
She said she saw it and then she saw it.
Couple outside standing.
Wondering.
Questioning.
Okay, what I seem to have here is a couple standing outside.
They're kind of looking around and saying, what's that? Do you see that? What is it?
Let me just draw what I'm seeing here.
Okay, I have some sort of oval object. It's got a line and a bunch of little squares around the outside of it and some of them are dark.
Okay, and this is over an open outside area.
Seems dark or hard to see.
Boy, I couldn't see you good. You were looking at me.
Boy, I couldn't see you good. You weren't at home.
So even after you got home you couldn't see good?
I wasn't afraid.
That's okay.
What about the other guys? Were they afraid?
Nobody talked about nothing.
But I know I have.
You know you what?
I've seen them many times.
Yeah, lots.
I think so.
Yeah.
I don't know.
I think so.
I don't know.
Yes.
No.
No.
Yes.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Yeah.
I turned black.
Yeah.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Maybe.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Yeah.
Yes.
Yes.
It's a luck to see.
Yep.
No, I hear it. I hear it. I can hear it.
Yeah.
I don't know.
When I took my sister,
then we were there just a very short time
and she started talking and talking and talking
and monopolized the whole conversation.
And it was almost like she'd known him a long time also,
except she hadn't.
That was her very first time.
I don't remember any other time meeting him,
but about three weeks after that,
my sister came up and said,
oh, by the way, I've been seeing your friends.
I said, what? You went without me?
And I was just thoroughly disgusted
that she would actually take over my friends.
And go see them by herself.
And I just assumed that maybe it was that day or the day before,
but now it had been more than one time
and she just had no need to tell me.
Oh, by the way, Steve, I saw your friends again.
I can't.
When I get to that part, I just can't talk about it.
I don't want to be crying on there, though.
I can't.
What they were there for
was up in that basin where they would land a lot of times, up in there.
Me and the children have walked up there before
and the only thing that I've ever seen up there missing
is bull courts.
And I've never seen a bull court.
The only thing that I've ever seen up there missing
is bull courts.
Like, taken out of the dry soil
where there's been courts taken out
and I don't know, there's no car tracks up there or anything.
So, where did they go to, the bull courts?
Are you talking about quartz?
Quartz. Bull courts.
Crystal quartz.
Yeah, a rock. And it's got the red veins in it.
Reddish. They call it rose quartz.
We always called it bull quartz
because it's laying in an area where there's no other rocks.
It's like a big sand basin with the rocks in it.
Can I drive into that area?
Yes, you could.
Dr. Geryl's built a house in that basin now
and he works at the hospital in Anaconda.
Now, you said that they landed in there all the time.
They did there for like about three years.
Do you want to tell them about that?
Yeah, they were coming and going in and out of there for these crafts.
Oh, they changed models.
The first ones that came were red, blue, yellow.
Red, blue, yellow. Red, blue, yellow. All the way around.
Then the newer model came red, blue, yellow, white.
Red, blue, yellow, white.
Because on the bottom of them they have a light that goes all the way around them.
The size of them, you can't believe.
You know, you think of a UFO being small, but they're quite large.
How large?
I would say at least 75 yards across. At least.
Bigger than that?
Oh, God, yes.
Like a football field size?
Not that big. No. Maybe width-wise.
Did they have windows? Did they spin or make noise?
No, nothing that I could hear.
Nothing that I could hear, but the dogs could hear something because they would cower.
My name is Richard Slater and I live in Missoula, Montana.
I grew up in the Deer Lodge Valley.
An incident happened to me in 1962 that I do remember was unlike this.
A friend and I had double dated and we were at a place called Quake Lake,
which was the result of an earthquake.
And all of a sudden the radio went off, the music went off.
What the hell?
Who cares?
Then all of a sudden the radio came back on.
As soon as the radio went off, the thing that I remember most about it was,
that made it unique to me, was the stillness, vacuum of noise, if you will,
that was around us.
And it was a very, very quiet place.
It was a very quiet place.
The stillness, vacuum of noise, if you will, that was around us.
Listen.
It's not a sound anyway.
It was just still.
Actually scared.
And we just sat there.
I want to go home.
Me too.
And the radio came back on and we left.
I sort out not only in terms of the questions but the possible answers.
For example, many people wonder about implants,
the so-called medical examinations that occur on board.
Many people report not only encountering various ETs,
but also feeling that they are themselves on the table for examination.
One amazing story told by a man with Deer Lodge connections
involved an eerie neon-like grid that appeared in his bedroom late one night.
In the morning, the man noticed a blood spot on his underwear.
A medical doctor stated it came from a small, needle-sized puncture wound in his scrotum.
There was no explanation for the cause of the wound.
Linda's adventures into the unknown apparently did not end with a visit to her brother's little gray friends.
Linda came to understand that she had made these visits on several different occasions.
I can't move.
You're not my friend.
They approached me with some very unusual instruments
that probed my eyes, my nose, my mouth and my ears
and they didn't hurt me, but it scared me just because of the instruments.
Please stop it.
Don't poke me.
As I was laying on the table, being probed by these instruments,
this other entity appeared.
She was different than the others and appeared to me to be a female
and she also appeared to be somewhat superior in authority to the others.
I like you.
You're different. You're a lady, aren't you?
You're a lady grasshopper.
I can hear you, but you're not talking.
Okay, I'll be good.
At five years old, the entity that I encountered looked very much like a grasshopper
and that's why I called her the grasshopper lady.
And I hadn't seen a praying mantis until I was approximately 20 years old
because we just didn't have them in Montana.
So that was my only thought of what it could be.
Okay, female.
Child.
Okay, let's see. There's an entity.
Large.
Unusual.
Three-four and a half.
This subject with small child is like a large praying mantis.
I'm just going to call this the praying mantis being.
Okay, three-four and a half.
Okay, three-four and a half.
Elongated head like a football with one end more narrow and slightly square.
Body is very long and thin with unusual angles.
Let's see. Blend with subject.
Okay, blending with the subject.
It's a very gentle, nurturing, caring.
And P-four and a half.
The girl likes this entity.
Another experience left Linda with tangible and painful evidence.
When I was about eight years old, I remember going to school
and my teacher asked me what the marks were on my arms.
And I don't remember why.
She just saw the ones on my arms, but said I didn't know.
And she sent me to the principal and to the nurse and then called my parents.
And my mother came to the school and she didn't know how they got in there.
And what they were bright red, raised, weeping, blister, sore things.
But they were really raised and it was really interesting because they went just right around here.
They're about four inches long, about two inches wide on the back of my arms,
all the way from my elbows to my ankles.
The back of my arms, all the way from my elbows to my wrists.
Palms of my hands, both hands, but on both arms.
When these sores appeared, they were extremely painful at the beginning.
And they would be like blisters and they would be big and then they would pop.
And then the fluid would run all over my arms.
And I would have to wear things to keep this from running all over everything.
Under hypnosis, Linda told of metal devices being placed on her arms, legs and face.
And this time there was no grasshopper lady to intervene.
I can't move.
What are you doing?
Ow. I don't like you.
I can hear you. I can hear all of you.
Once again, she found herself lying on a hard metallic table in a dark place, surrounded by shadowy figures.
I can hear you. I can hear you saying.
But these seemed different from the beings she had encountered before.
Immobile.
I have entities.
Many.
Small.
Gray.
Non-human.
Okay. P4 and a half.
Small.
Female.
Childlike.
Surrounded.
By non-humans.
Gray.
And short.
With protruding abdomens.
Okay. I've got a sketch.
Okay. Face. Hot.
Arms. Burning.
Weird.
P4 and a half.
Face and arms feel burned.
Like exposure to radiation or extreme sun.
Very fast burn.
The experience left her with long-lasting and painful sores on her young body.
I think what's interesting about all of these sessions, one thing that has come through for me in all of the sessions is the air, the climate.
It's just very charged. It's electrified.
It's like you can, it's palpable. You can feel the air around you.
And doing a session where you pick up something that's glassy, that has depth to it, it just makes me think of a portal.
We may be in an area where it's a portal to another interdimensional space.
Behind these hay bales is the town of Deer Lodge.
Along this ridge right here is the area known as Red Gate.
Up here on the mountainside, the bear spot that looks like an upside-down flying bird, that's where the snowmobilers were.
And other instances occurred right over in here.
The point is, it all happened right here.
My sister Linda has always been straightforward with her questions and with her answers.
And she's always curious. She's been extremely curious about what's going on.
She's got a medical career. Being curious, she's endeavored to seek answers for the questions that she's had.
And be it in the medical field or where, she's chased them down.
Even to this day, some of the people's families don't want them to talk about it because they're afraid of the consequences.
Even to this day, some of the people's families don't want them to talk about it because they're afraid of ridicule of the public or maybe their job.
They have public jobs and they don't want people that they deal with to think that they're too edgy.
It seems like it's extremely unnatural to not want to tell everybody you meet that you have little brave friends that you talk to.
And the more I think about some of the other things that have happened later in life, there's a very strong possibility that this was a suggestion of theirs that I had no need to talk about.
Well, the UFOs, I believe that non-human life, extraterrestrials have been here all along.
And personally, I don't make a big deal out of it. I don't understand a lot of the secrecy behind it.
But for me, I think they're a part of our daily lives on many areas. Some are physical. Some are in different dimensions.
Some are good. Some are not so good. A lot of them are like people.
Basically, they're not better than us. They're simply different.
My thought about UFOs is that they're becoming more and more prevalent in our consciousness.
We are hearing more stories about UFOs and it's through remote viewing that we are able to actually perceive and better explain the UFO phenomena.
I think we are in a time where our consciousness is expanding and it's expanding so that we are able to see other things outside of time and space.
We're opening up our consciousness inter-dimensionally and we can do this with remote viewing.
My personal opinion of UFOs and subjects who claim to have seen UFOs is that I'm certainly open to the wide possibility that these are real phenomena.
Proving this as a scientist is difficult.
But so many honest and honorable and decent normal human beings have claimed these phenomena.
These same people could put you in jail or be on a jury and give you a life sentence.
We would believe them in these circumstances.
I believe these people have had UFO experiences or certainly they believe they have had UFO experiences.
With as big as the universe is, there's no reason to think there isn't other life forms in the universe.
The Red Gate Project is impressive for a variety of reasons.
The researchers are good people who have used professional approaches in their investigative interviews.
They've used remote viewing, hypnosis sessions, polygraph sessions.
And they're combining their efforts with good people from a community that seems to be supportive of letting this information come into public view.
Good people who are courageous and who are showing the world that their experiences are important to them and in my opinion important to the rest of us.
I'm pleased to be a part of this project.
I think the message is to not continue to search in our past, but to grow and get beyond what's happened and to understand that it's just a part of our life and that we just need to learn from it and move on and explore what's ahead.
After all her searching, Linda Krump has finally accepted the reality of her experiences and has been reconciled with her childhood memories.
So there you have it. The secret of Red Gate is that so many people in one small American community now know that there is so much more to the universe than what we see and experience in our everyday lives.
I love you.
