Welcome to Breeder Syndicate 2.0, where we explore the history of a clandestine scene.
Researching everything from cannabis strain history, old smuggling tales from the first
person perspective, to breeding science and news on current subculture.
I'm your host Matthew, and I'll occasionally be joined by my homie NotSoDog, breeder and
grower from Mendocino, to speak on these subjects and sometimes interview other participants.
Our goal is to document this history before it's written by corporations and others who
just weren't there.
Let's start righting some wrongs.
Welcome to the underground.
Can you kind of enlighten us a little bit on Mark Emery, both of you?
Just give us a quick take from a Canadian perspective on Mark Emery, because we don't
have a really clear one, at least from my era and point of view in the United States.
Well like one thing I'm not sure about was Mark Emery involved in cannabis before like
the hemp nation constitutional challenge?
No.
Well, the constitutional challenge, he started hemp BC by that time, but you have to remember
Mark's from this town, from my town.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He had a bookstore here called City Lights.
He scammed those people also when it came to selling it.
But Mark, I call him the dark enemy for a reason.
I think it's very suiting it, ironically matches his name.
But he is somebody that, in his own words said he was against legalization of cannabis
due to the amount of money that he was making from selling seeds illegally.
He proved this when after hemp nation was busted for the second time, well, first time
was great Canadian Emporium, second time it was hemp nation.
Chris was not allowed to sell paraphernalia after that.
So we decided, or he decided that he reached out to Mark who had hemp BC and said, hey,
listen, do you want to buy all the inventory from hemp nation?
Because we need to raise the money for the constitutional challenge.
And he agreed.
He's like, yes, send me everything.
And then it was like pulling teeth to get paid from him.
And by the very end of it, I mean, it wasn't a shitload of money.
You know, maybe it was only 10, 20 grand or something like that in inventory.
But when you're fighting the government to legalize cannabis, every penny counts.
Sure.
And Chris kept getting the, you know, oh, talk to my accountant, talk to my accountant.
At this time, it was in around this time, friends of mine through Red from Legends,
a mutual friend worked for Mark basically almost as like manager area of sales for his
direct seeds.
Yeah.
And he was doing something like 20, 40, $60,000 a week in cannabis sales and seed sales.
And when it was all said and done with hemp nation, Chris claimed bankruptcy with Mark
Embry still owing him money.
And it was only maybe a thousand or two thousand dollars at the end of it.
But it just showed what the term douchebag and yeah, my use of the word douchebag.
I said I have to start saving it for like the appropriate people.
And Dark Enemy is, I feel, the biggest douchebag in our industry.
He claims that he donated all this money and stuff like that, but he didn't.
He did an interview, I think it was on like CBC or something.
And Jody and him were together for less than a year maybe.
And he's sitting there having her like clip his toenails on camera while he's being interviewed.
And I think it was not a mistake.
He got up and he was butt naked or something like that.
And I was just like, what kind of fucking douchebag, again the word douchebag, lets
or allows his girlfriend, who was barely out of being a teenager at the time, got his fucking
toenails on national TV.
I mean, yes, my girlfriend and my wife, sure, she would probably if I asked her to.
Yeah, but I wouldn't ask her to.
In her fucking lifetime, ask her to do it on camera.
There was a big thing that came out, like he was just very inappropriate with employing
me.
I can't say I don't know of any charges that were laid.
I mean, there should have been.
I do know he did run for political office here in London.
And he was dating somebody that we knew.
He was dating this guy's ex-wife.
And this guy had, I think, two kids, two boys.
And Mark Durham, his speeches kept saying, I'm a family man, I'm all about family.
You know, here's my wife and my kids.
And this guy was like, dude, you can't call my kids your kids.
And it ended up that Mark, I believe, was giving a speech or something down at one of
the parks.
And he said that.
And this guy walked out of the crowd, walked up and punched him.
I don't know if he did it on stage.
But like basically punched Mark in the fucking head and said, stop fucking claiming my kids
as yours.
Because, you know, he's a showboater.
And the thing is, he's done certain things.
He used to do something here.
He fought for stores to be open on Sunday, before when it was illegal.
Kudos for that.
He had some of his staff or something follow.
The guy's doing the parking police, whatever, and walking around with nickels or quarters.
And if he saw an expired meter, he'd drop a quarter or a nickel in it.
Kudos for that.
But you know, Mark is like the Donald Trump of the fucking cannabis industry.
Like he talks the talk, but he's burned so many fucking bridges.
The thing is, I got into yelling matches on the phone.
And because he was like, why the fuck are you bashing me?
I kicked him out of my store when he came into town.
He can go to high times, a guy from my competition, toot his horn as much as he wants.
But I know him.
And furthermore, when I opened Organic Traveler, I took over all of Hemp Nation's gear, everything
down from the display cases, including their computers.
So on his computers, I had access to all the files and all the outstanding debts that Mark
owed.
So if I was badmouthing him and trying to be loud enough that he would hear me, and
obviously he did because he called me up one day on speakerphone with other people in the
background and tried to bitch me, like try to make a scene.
I said, Mark, I got the fucking computers here.
I can tell you what date you made payments and what date and how much you owed at the
very end.
Tell me he's like Pete, it was only fucking thousand bucks, a couple thousand bucks.
I don't give a fuck.
You still owe it.
A couple million dollars, man.
We were trying to fucking change the laws.
Chris went to fucking jail for this.
Sarah went to jail for this.
This guy's out there making tens, if not hundreds of thousands of dollars a month.
And he's going to stiff some fucking guy that's trying to fight the marijuana laws.
So that he can do that?
Now this comes through word of mouth, but the people that tell me this kind of thing,
I give 10 times, a thousand times more credit than I give Mark.
And they said, you know, he'll admit that off record, obviously, that why would he want
to legalize cannabis when he makes so much money off the fact that it is illegal?
And especially in the States, he wasn't charged in Canada, he was charged in the States.
Yeah.
Right?
Like, fuck, buddy.
Move to the States.
I mean, I'm all for spreading the seed everywhere.
We don't want him.
Use that fucking, you know.
And what got me also was back then, I was actually breeding, I'll do air quotes because
it's not, I was just breeding for seed to get the seed out there.
And again, we're going back to the mid 90s kind of thing.
We would send Mark seeds.
And this is when he first started his seed business.
And we would tell him that whatever, it was a buck a seed or a couple bucks a seed or
something like that.
And we'd be honest, like, listen, like I told you in the last interview, I would buy seeds
from Sensi or Greenhouse or something.
And then do a breeding just using those genetics and saying, hey, listen, this is our Northern
Lights.
We bought the Northern Lights 5, we bought the seed, we made our own seed, we're selling
it.
Or we would say, oh, we like to, we wanted to blend it.
So we did like a Northern Lights chemo, which was something that we really liked.
And we would sell Mark the seeds and he would change the names or he would remove certain
things like he would just call the Northern Lights chemo, just chemo.
Right.
Or just Northern Lights because it would sell better.
Right.
So he was dishonest when it came to what he was selling.
And you know, it didn't happen.
He wasn't selling it as, you know, Sensi seeds, fucking Northern Lights.
He was just saying, hey, this is pure Northern Lights.
But it wasn't pure.
It was fucking bred by me or Hemp Nation crew or in a Hemp Nation garden or my garden.
And we were just doing it to spread the Johnny Apple seed.
We wanted to sell the seeds.
You know, we were selling, I think it was 10 seeds for 25 bucks or something, 250 a
seed to get it out there.
Right.
You know, people that, again, I even said in the last interview, people that focus on
the money in this industry are in the industry, not the movement.
And people that claim to be in the movement, like Mark does, you know, and he he was hiding
behind Jody to the very end.
Right.
Like, I don't know what the fuck is wrong with that.
And I'm not going to get into any personal shit because there's some shit he's done to
friends of mine personally.
Yeah.
I mean, if you if you Google Mark Emery and you look for stuff, it's like there's stuff
out there.
It's like when he got out West, I think it got worse.
You know, like it's all about ego.
He all my friends.
When we were out in Vancouver, we wouldn't step foot in the shop.
No, like on that strip.
Like like we wouldn't like we didn't even want to go into his establishment.
Like that's how much we disliked him.
We just knew like he was a piece of shit.
Like fuck him.
Like, again, he's it's about self-promotion with him.
It's nothing to do with the movement.
He's not one of us with anything but fucking, you know, he went to I think it was Thailand
before he went out West, you know, or maybe it was during because he went out there and
like dropped a bunch of money on some locals that, hey, I just bought this property.
He has fucking X amount of dollars.
I want a fucking house when I come back.
You know, when he came back, he went back there.
The land was just overgrown, nothing built and his money was gone.
So I would honestly wish that there wasn't so many, you know, he comes back to this town
and he thinks he's fucking he ran for political office last year.
And it was hilarious because every time I drove by him, I would call him a fucking douchebag.
Yeah.
Don't listen.
You're not liked around here.
Get the fuck out.
I mean, I had three little boats.
And the funny thing is, is I was either driving my Volkswagen bus and my Volkswagen, Karmagee
or my truck or my Mini Cooper or my Jeep.
I was always driving something different.
So he's probably thought the whole fuck.
I hope other people join me.
But yeah, I was fucking yelling at him left, right and center because he doesn't fucking
live here while he might live here.
Now I don't even know.
I think he moved back here for a while.
I can't believe he would go back.
Honestly, like I like when I lived there.
I didn't know one person that had anything to say but negative.
But he didn't choose to leave London, right?
He had to leave.
He ended up he ended up in he he ended up fucking a fireman's wife.
And I got for some reason, I thought he was fairly high up in the fire department.
I don't know if he's a chief or or something like that.
But rumor has it.
Yeah.
They walked into his fucking bookstore and said, there's a lot of paper in here.
This is probably place to probably go up pretty quickly.
And sometimes we hit red lights or something along that line was said.
Yeah, right.
And again, could have been folklore could have been anything.
But because you know, I knew what the type of person I know the type of person he is.
Yeah, for sure.
For sure.
See that.
It sucks to see people like that get all the attention.
And it gives us a bad name.
Yeah, yeah.
People out there, especially as a Canadian, like to hear Prince of Pots.
What the fuck?
Like, come on.
Like, that was especially like in BC.
He kept going in BC.
It's like, fuck.
Well, let's, you know, let's let's get to this.
So the one thing that was resounding, the resounding criticism from the last episode
was that there were one or two really loud BC growers that felt that that they were misrepresented.
Very extreme.
Can you explain it, Sean?
Better than me.
I before like when before we did the first one before we even recorded the first one
in our little homie chat, I said there's going to be some BC people pissed off.
Yeah.
And I have I have a specific question in mind, but I didn't even ask that question.
And they still got upset.
I actually went back and listened and I know what he what the one guy at least was upset
about.
And and it was that Pete said it all started here.
I was like, yeah.
And then there was a comment about, of course, there's there's good growers in BC.
They're all from Ontario.
Yeah.
But he was like this.
Like, you know, well, but you and I have a very specific viewpoint, right?
Yeah.
But.
Hey, Doc.
Not so.
I grew up in London, so I grew up around like I like there is like commercial what my friends
called biker weed, right?
Which was just the commercial.
Right.
Yeah.
But once once you found like that, like that downtown family, which was not hard to find,
you know, you you got great pot.
Right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Whether you were getting it from.
Well, whatever.
I'm not going to name.
So me and my friends, like, you know, we went on tour.
Right.
We were like, fuck this.
We're going on dead tour.
And we just wanted to like we wanted to see the shows because we we were heads.
But we also wanted to see fucking pot.
You know, that was like the two were just as equal.
So we went down, we did tour for a while.
That led us to the west coast of the US.
And we we saw that area.
And like we were kind of like blown away.
Like number one, the cost, we could not fucking believe people were paying what they were
paying like that was just mind blowing.
Right.
Because it was comparable to back home to us.
And then when we got to the west coast, it's like same thing.
But like the only like the only thing about the west coast is we saw new stuff that like
names we'd never heard of.
And obviously there was people breeding there.
Right.
Because it was all this weird new shit.
It was the first time I saw like white weed.
Right.
Like mold in somebody's hand.
But they're like, no, that's, you know, that's fucking, you know, resin.
And then, you know, I lived in Arcata for a while.
Right.
So I lived in Arcata for a good stretch.
And like, I was there for a while.
So I kind of saw and experienced what was going on in that area.
And it was really good weed like back home, though, you know, like for me, it was like
what we had back home.
And then I got back home and like, I went into Pete shop to like chat him up because
back home, there's not too many people that you could talk about that stuff and they understand
what you're talking about.
And at the same time, Maudit was taking me out to Vancouver with him.
Right.
And Pete's response was like, you were just like disappointed, super disappointed.
And you were like, everybody goes out west and they think the weed is so much better
there.
And it's not.
It's not.
You know.
So like I said, I stand by what I said before about all the good growers.
Well, I would say all, but I can't say all right, because we don't know.
I'm going to say a large percentage.
And I'll give you a few examples because a large percentage.
I got hired after a stint in Switzerland by a one of the larger brokers in the Vancouver
area.
And like Red, he was named after a different color.
Let's just say blue.
And I think he's from Ontario too, honestly.
But so they dropped me into this middle of butt fuck nowhere between Jasper and Kamloops
along I think it's highway five and built a huge greenhouse in the middle of the bush
off grid.
I lived in a little log cabin off grid.
They already had 300 300 bales of Pro Mix hiked into a bush and big, huge outdoor beds.
And I thought, fucking right now I'm in the middle of fucking nowhere.
I'm finally going to meet some of these, you know, grassroots VC growers that I fucking
heard about, read about.
Didn't meet fucking one person from VC.
Every single person I met was from Ontario or I'd say 80 percent from Ontario and the
rest were kind of mixed.
So when you go out to Vancouver and the island and stuff like that, you know, yeah.
Ask anybody where you're from.
I'm from BC.
I was like, really, where were you born?
What part?
And they're like, I was born in Etobicoke.
What the fuck is that?
It's very rare.
It moved here.
I moved here six months ago.
Well, no, you're not from fucking BC.
Yeah.
In the 90s, it was very rare.
Like most people that are from BC were born in the fucking 90s, you know, like it just
wasn't populated.
It wasn't populated.
The population was tiny.
And like what I was told, actually, I'm not sure if it's totally true, but I think it's
believable was like in the 80s, they were offering stimulus sort of situations for people
to move to BC because it was so underpopulated.
And they were even like doing that to like, you know, lower income people like, we'll
give you money and we'll give you a free trip to go to, you know, the fucking Vancouver
area like it just wasn't populated.
Right.
And by the 90s, the great majority was not from there.
It just that's it's true.
The cannabis moved out there again, like why everybody moves out there.
They think, well, you know, it's beautiful.
It's more climatized and so on.
All the power to them for sure.
You know, but again, the genetics and the techniques and the information in their heads
has come from Ontario.
I mean, there's a breeder out on the island.
He thinks he's a pretty great gardener.
I think he's OK, you know, besides, you know, but he's not from fucking BC, you know, he's
from he's from this fucking town, you know, but like recently, maybe dark enemies from
here, Chris Clay, Chris Clay's from here, you know, like I don't know about, you know,
some of the other growers.
Sure, there's phenomenal growers everywhere.
BC definitely has.
But we're seeing a lot of podcasts now, right, like this, where a lot of people are speaking
out and like C-Ray not from BC, Scabby not from BC, Jay not from BC, like every single
person that that has spoken out about BC is not from BC.
Right.
Right.
I don't think we've heard what was moved out to BC.
I mean, I got I got bit by the bug also, like everybody and just some beautiful fucking
people out there.
And it is a lot stronger there because the laws were a lot more forgiving there.
It is.
But you know, when it when push comes to shove, yes, the people like, OK, where are you from?
If they say BC, ask them where they're born, because, you know, it's not like they I'm
surprised they got fucking maternity wards in fucking Vancouver because nobody's from
fucking Vancouver.
But there's some there's some right like like, like less than an hour I was off the plane.
We were smoking Texas at a time warp.
Yeah.
And it's like there was a whole bunch of Americans there, like like our whole like deadhead crew
that was in Vancouver.
Like we were strong supporters of the island organic outdoor.
You know, like that was good shit.
It was actually a good story for Red, too, if you ever want to.
Well, we did.
We did talk.
And there's a lot of cool people in BC.
There's a lot of good growers in BC.
And if somebody is like insulted at the fact that like BC isn't everything, maybe you're
not growing great weed if you're that insecure, you know?
I mean, I can throw like, obviously, like I Mendo Mendo has some similarities and humble
to because like as you know, you start talking about like, oh, where were you born?
You know, and I mean, I'm a transplant out here now.
Granted, I ended up getting here a lot earlier, you know, like than most people.
And I've lived out here a long time, but I'm not from here.
You know, when you look at the map of Canada, almost all Canadians are from where you guys
are.
Yeah.
Again, the largest population, southwestern Ontario.
And like I was saying before, in the last podcast, where because of how we're situated
the Great Lakes and glacial runoff, we have some of the best soil in Canada.
I mean, people don't probably realize this.
Canada is a huge place.
If you look at it, like I think it's like 80, 90 percent of the people in Canada live
within 100 kilometers of the border or something like that.
Even that I was kind of like, well, because Matt thought when we said London, we're talking
about BC, like his geography is like way out.
But like I was trying to explain to like my American friends that like we can't just say
Ontario.
We can't just say BC because it's too huge.
Like BC, right.
I was just saying even the coastal area, you have all these independent islands that are
like a place in themselves.
Then you have Vancouver.
Then you have like the Vancouver Island, which could be split up in sections.
Then you have the Kootenays, which is like fucking 12 hours down the road that way.
It's just totally different places.
And when you say BC, like I'm sure the Koot's had much better quality because it was smaller.
The Vancouver area and the coastal area was so big, it was so commercial that it was just
flooded with commercial.
It was so fucking flooded with commercial.
It was hard to find good weed because there was so much commercial to get rid of.
It was like nobody had time to even think about quality.
It was just like, because a lot of the organized growers, organized crime growers, that's where
they were going to be around.
When you get into like the Kootenays, the Nelson area, when you get into the kind family
mentality that still grow for the love of the plant.
So again, air quotes it, the movement people, not the industry people.
If you're in the industry, you are going to be in probably Vancouver.
You're going to be someplace west of Hope and south of Whistler kind of thing.
And then as soon as you get on to the island, same thing.
You're going to get more of the kind family vibe and mentality.
I spent some time out in Nelson and Wynlaw, that area.
And they were just like, you know what?
They grew phenomenal.
I named my dog after a Kootenay strain.
It was called Kootenay Green.
You know, our friend, I got to mention because he passed away, I don't know, a couple years
ago maybe, Cormies?
Yeah.
Yeah.
He passed away not long ago, but he was like a lot of our friends are there.
A lot of the people we grew up are there.
Most of our friends went to the Koots.
I would say like of that, of like my age people that were brought up there, like 90% went
to the Koots.
I would say like the drum circles I used to have at Organic, we used to have all like
the hippies that would, hippie kids I call them, like kids who were your age, maybe even
a little bit younger.
They used to all come to Organic Traveler for a guy to do drum circles on Sundays or
something like that.
I'd say 90% of them ended out in the Nelson area and probably a good portion of them fucking
played in Wasabi kind of thing.
Like they were all...
Well, but that's the thing.
Like there was, in London, they were called Kangaroo, right?
This band, they were like a little fun band called Kangaroo.
But like they all, like when they got old enough to go to college, they went there and
like everybody went there.
Yeah, but then you had, you had, shit on my dipstick, what are they called?
Jimmy's band back here, Yakimistic.
Yeah, shit on my dipstick.
Yakimistic, Kangaroo and those guys, right?
Like...
Oh, Jimmy went with them.
Jimmy was with them.
Well, that, because when they all got there, they joined up with Wasabi Collective.
Like Jimmy was in that and...
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, I mean, that's what I was trying to get at about, you know, the cannabis industry.
And, you know, I invite anybody who wants to challenge me on fucking, you know, East
Coast, West Coast, where all the growers come, like, you know, you think about it.
Yeah.
I just see it's not a pissing contest, you know, it's not a pissing contest.
We get, yeah, and it shouldn't be, but it is for some, right?
And that kind of brings me into my next thing, because when I talk about, you know, Legend
Seeds, right?
And SOL, they're from this area, right?
Yeah.
And they're old friends.
And I listened back on my, on the last podcast, and I use the words, the term we a lot when
I talk about these guys, because they're friends.
Yeah.
But when it came to their breeding and stuff like that, Legends and SOL, I was just, I
wasn't part of their, their company or part of their group.
I was friends with them.
I was there.
I might have, you know, did whatever they wanted me to do kind of thing as helping out
a friend.
When I say we, I don't mean I helped breed anything with these guys.
It was a friend circle.
It was a career.
Yeah, it was.
And it brought me to another point where in my book, there's a typo, which I'm surprised
Steve hasn't come and fucking try to firebomb my house yet.
But when we were talking about the Fast Spear, which we spoke about a lot.
You said that though, the last one, you said this already.
You said that you...
No, no, you've seen this part.
On the very last paragraph of the one chapter, it says, it was supposed to say, I grew an
award-winning strain.
And then it said, I bred an award-winning strain.
But it taught the whole chapter.
It just talks about me being a grower, I'm being a grower there and working for Mr. Hemp.
And, you know, I answered to Steve, it was his program.
But the very last thing was just, it was a typo and Red brought it up and I was like,
oh fuck man, Steve's going to kill me because he thinks I'm trying to steal his fucking
limelight even though he stole my medal.
But...
Trying to jack his Steve.
I think that's a common thing in cannabis actually, because of how in the shadows and
clandestine it is.
I do the same thing, dude, where some of the stories I tell where it's we, it's like, there's
people that are known and there's people that are unknown.
Some of those people that are unknown wish to remain unknown, you know?
And so you're trying to tell history and tell a story, but you have to sort of edit it to
some degree because what you're giving is accurate information, right?
And then the flip side of that is that there's people that want to be canna-famous, right?
And they want to aggregate all the fame to them.
And so even if it might've been a collective of friends all doing it, they're going to
tell the story like it was them alone in their basement working for 10 years.
And then they came out with all this and no one else has shit to do with it.
When you know personally that there was like seven other dudes and it was this loose collective
of friends that were all involved.
This breeding happened at this house then, and then this accident happened over here
and then this happened.
And it can be kind of weird to tell stories that way because a lot of money is made on,
you know, every breeder in Mike's except for maybe Neville, but most breeders are like,
well, no, Neville was very clear about, I got this from this person, I got that from
that person, I did this and this.
Almost all breeders after him were like, this never existed before I carefully crafted it
and no one else has had any of these genetics ever.
Yeah.
Like they created a fucking land race kind of shit.
Yeah, like they just obscure that it came out of it.
I'm going to break in because like, not to interrupt the flow, but I didn't get to actually
ask my question when we were talking about the BC stuff.
And I want to ask this question.
Do it.
So we're going to, but it kind of is the same thing because it's a dishonesty thing or like
an illusion thing, I guess you would say.
But like that conversation, going back to that conversation when you were disappointed,
you mentioned something and at the time you mentioned it, I kind of thought you were crazy.
Like I didn't like, I didn't know because I didn't know.
Right.
When somebody tells you something you don't know, you're kind of like, what?
But you said something about high times and hyping the...
Magazine or the store.
What's that?
Magazine or the store?
The magazine.
Like BC was only got really popular because High Times was hyping them to kind of draw
attention to them.
Do you remember this conversation?
No.
No.
Well, what I remember, which this could be totally false, was that you were like, BC
was like hyping up the big bud.
Because at the time, like BC was really blowing up as like, right.
But you were like, the magazine was kind of like trying to draw attention from the US
and DEA attention to BC.
I don't remember that conversation, but I mean, part of that sounded a little familiar.
I think what High Times is trying to pimp was because California was such a huge market
for cannabis, counterculture.
Because High Times isn't a cannabis magazine, right?
It's a counterculture magazine.
So that's why it has so much music.
It has so much cannabis is only a section of it.
And for a few years, they got rid of it, right?
They didn't have cannabis for a few years.
And that's when they started Grow America for a little bit.
But I think because the term BC bud, right?
Anything coming out of Canada was BC bud.
So I think they were pimping that as well as because of the climate, you could have
larger outdoor grows than we could in Ontario.
Okay.
They wouldn't go into Quebec where you could also have fairly large outgrowths because
of the language barrier.
So I think for High Times, I wouldn't say I know for a fact, but pretty damn sure with
my interaction with them that they were pushing the BC bud because of its popularity in California.
Because your top dollar, anything from your tuna cans, fucking anything that was the BC
bud got the top dollar.
Okay.
And I mean, there's a name that we mentioned in our last talk, and he was a broker.
He's still in the industry.
I think he's a fucking great guy.
He knows a lot of history of this movement from the West Coast, but he was a broker and
he used to be able to sell a certain type of outdoor and it was a pink something.
But he was selling for $2,900 a pound for outdoor to LA because it was...
That's nothing though.
People were selling 32.
Yeah, I realize that, but this is outdoor.
What year is this?
I don't know if that was Canadian or US.
What year?
Oh, okay.
Okay.
That makes sense.
It would have been...
The Beaster era.
Yeah.
I would say like late nineties.
So like pink push type stuff?
I can ask you.
And it was a strain, I think it was called Sotica.
Cream Sotica.
Cream Sotica.
Yeah.
So we grew that out in Switzerland actually.
And the guy that's growing it is...
I'm going to use the word douchebag again, which I was trying not to use, but this guy's
a fucking douchebag.
He ran the farm that I was hired to work on in the interior.
And his name's Jay.
I don't know his last name.
I wish I knew his last name, but I'd say it here too because he's a fucking douchebag.
What was the Cream Sotica like?
First time I ever saw that?
It was a really unique plant.
It had really bright pink stigmas in it where it wasn't a huge producer, but it grew kind
of like a really short, kind of like the pink Friesland, which I wouldn't be surprised if
it might've, again, traveled West, which a lot of genetics did back in the day, as we
talked about before.
That was just like, it wasn't a very strong structured plant, but it just grew all these
golf balls that just would, I mean, maybe a little bit easier to trim, but just look
beautiful, rock hard.
It would give you the BC bag of marbles.
And it's kind of what I call a lot of the, any pot that comes across my desk nowadays,
I can basically look at it and tell you where it comes from by bag appeal because BC had
the tendency for a while there of not trimming the pot, but shaping it.
So every nug looked like a fucking marble.
Right.
Yeah.
Right.
You know, but I mean, it was back when they were making tons of extract.
So they were trimming off a lot of the stuff because they knew they were going to be able
to use it kind of thing.
And then you got the bag of marbles, the BC bag of marbles that was just kind of a look.
So I think that the cream Sotica was a strain that was kind of easy for their outdoor to
look like indoor.
And that's why Bubble was able to fucking, you know, for ridiculous amounts of money.
We have a strain out here called the West Coast Dog like that.
This is outdoor for indoor type shit.
That's been the game.
I mean, and where I live in Mendo, it's like, that's been the game forever of brokers being
like, well, this outdoor passes light depth.
Does this light depth look good enough to pass as indoor?
Because where there was uneducated areas of the country or whatever, they were like,
can I put this into a different bracket?
Can I buy this for what it is, but claim it's the next grade up?
It's tons of people.
I mean, and that's the industry enveloping the movement, right?
Because there's going to be people like myself that say, hey, listen, you know, it's outdoor.
It looks like indoor, you know, but fuck, I'm going to be honest with you.
And if you want to be dishonest after that, that's up to you, but I'm probably going to
charge you fucking more money.
You're going to pay a fucking tax on something that looks spectacular.
I don't give a fuck if it's indoor or outdoor or fucking greenhouse or, you know, small
crop, large crop, you know, hand trim, machine trim, you know, there's so many variables
at the end of the day, if it fucking looks good, smells good and fucking kicks you in
the nuts, then what the fuck, who cares how it's grown for me?
I think like what do we what do we do when we grow indoor?
All we're trying to do is mimic outdoor.
We're trying to mimic Mother Nature.
Mother Nature has the fucking the formula down where now we're able to with technology
and so on.
We're allowed.
We can better Mother Nature.
But for the longest time, we were just trying to reproduce outside inside.
I do think we can do everything better than nature indoor, except for the sun.
No, no, of course you can.
I mean, the sun is the sun still by far is the best light.
Right.
And I've done all kinds of spectrum experiments, lights and all this.
And you know, to some degree, it's interesting, too, because like all almost all of the award
winning hash made in California is all made with the sun.
Right.
You know, they don't use indoor grown stock indoor.
I get, you know, humans are so visual that indoor might look prettier, you know.
And I also wanted to make a comment when you guys were talking about Ontario, you know,
just different areas.
There could be a lot just for the simple fact that BC bud rhymes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You know, Southwestern Ontario now doesn't really like what do you what do you call Ontario
weed?
You know, I live in Mendocino County or whatever.
And like whether it came from Trinity or Mendocino or Sonoma or whatnot, if it went on dead tour,
it was Humboldt County organic outdoor.
Yeah, exactly.
Well, and that's what I was going to say.
Like what you were mentioning is, you know, Humboldt is the B.C. of of the states pretty
much right.
Like anybody that was anybody that wanted to be a park rower moved to California.
And once they were like, oh, in California, now what do we do?
Like Humboldt, again, probably didn't have a fucking maternity ward.
Didn't need one because there was only a few fucking people that live there.
And then all of a sudden the cannabis craze came.
And of course, they were like, oh, well, I move up there.
I can name it.
Fucking Humboldt County.
Yeah.
I'll tell you, when I first moved to Mendocino County in the 90s, there was so few people
moving here from outside that everyone thought I was a cop.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Also, because you look like a cop.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You look, you know, fuck that, dude.
I can tell you.
I mean, we want to talk about dead tour.
The first time I saw a cop tackle somebody on the lot with dreadlocks down to his ass
and then pull out handcuffs.
Yeah.
I was like, oh, yeah.
Yeah.
No, no, no.
I'd say you can't tell what an undercover cop looks like, but you can tell what a regular
cop looks like.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But the only reason I said that is because it was before what we call the green rush.
Yeah.
Where people weren't moving, like people didn't move to the towns that I was moving to.
Yeah.
Like out of towners didn't come there.
Within five, six years as medical advanced and sort of the green rush occurred, it got
overwhelmed by much like you were saying with B.C.
Almost none of the growers from Mendo were born in Mendo.
Right.
They were all transplants.
I mean, there was a small core, certainly, that was from there.
But if you added them up by like number, it was probably like 90, 90, 10, 10 percent were
from there.
That's the same thing with B.C.
Like, again, I'm not going to pull, you know, I think B.C. has produced and still does produce
phenomenal growers.
I was saying that back in the day, most of those growers and therefore a lot of their
genetics came from, you know, east or south.
There's a debate on that, too, like not so much in but just in the sense of where is
something from?
Yeah, exactly.
You know, like like the you know, we have this.
I think it came from, came through.
The came through because there's this whole thing where like, oh, the cush is from Florida.
What's the story of the cush?
And they're like, oh, well, it's this clone from the Emerald Triangle.
And then pollen from some stuff we got from Neville and Holland.
Right.
But it happened in Florida.
Right.
You know, so I see.
And again, back when I was growing the cush before it was cush kind of thing, it was just
basically the, you know, from the cush region of Afghanistan.
Like I would say if people say, well, where's the where's the Hindu cush from?
Well, probably the Hindu cush mountains.
Right.
So these are they might have, you know, took a cutting or a seed, you know, they might
have brought something back during the war times, you know, which a lot of the genetics
did come from soldiers returning from fucking overseas and bringing seed that they that
they grabbed and planted in California, Florida, fucking Wyoming, fucking anywhere, everywhere.
It was just what ended up happening is where all the cool people or where the population
that were like minded ended up moving to in Canada, it would be B.C.
You know, in California, it was going to be probably San Francisco or that area following
kind of the whole hippie movement and so on.
So I would say I don't say I shouldn't say that the strain or their genetics came from
Southwest, Southwestern Ontario.
I could say that they most likely came through and they probably came through California
to get to B.C.
But again, when you get strains like taxata, taxata time warp, there's certain and I was
I found some seed that from Gabriola.
Right.
Like where they come from.
I'm sure there's people on the island that will claim or and rightfully so say, well,
taxata came from taxata because they came from California.
Yeah.
And we took we took pollen from Ontario or we took pollen from fucking, you know, some
seed that we got out of Africa.
You know, I used to order seeds from fucking Africa back in nation days, like literally
from a seeds dealer out of.
Fuck, I think I don't know if it was South Africa or the Swazi and Swazi pepper.
And there was another strain.
But, you know, I would use that in my breeding program.
I'm going to put that in quotations again.
I would use that when I was making seeds and that made that strain from here.
Right.
Did it originate here?
Yes, the seed did.
But the genetics that it came from obviously didn't come from here because we have very
little, if any, land races as same as B.C.
Has very little to any same as California.
They might they might have a land race there.
I don't know of one.
Right.
But land race, no.
No, I mean, I think I think most most California breeding, if I had to guess what the very
inception of California breeding is, it was like, how do we make these sativas that we're
getting free seeds with these kilos we're getting?
How do we make them finish in our area?
Yeah.
Oh, well, I have some Mexican and that stuff seems to finish earlier.
So maybe I'll take some of this Thai or Colombian and I'll cross it to Mexican.
Yeah.
It was literally very like very it was very I don't think people had goals other than
the fact of like, I need this to finish before January.
Well, I think that's where a lot of the genetics were built and why they were built, because
I know and that's why, again, going back to the East Coast, West Coast, we had draft
Dodgers that fucking ran the border and and brought their genetics up to southwestern
Ontario again, because being so close to Detroit, so close to Buffalo, you know, the most southern
part of this country, the soil, the so on, so forth.
Perth County conspiracy, the whole kind of deal.
What were we breeding for?
What was I breeding for?
I wasn't breeding for anything other than I want to take that fucking strain and grow
it in my house, in my basement.
And I don't want to run it for 14 weeks.
Right.
So I'm going to find so and again, my a lot of my I'm as I was a sativa lover.
So I wanted if I could grow an original haze in six weeks that produced that one and a
half pounds per light, I'd be in heaven.
So that's where I was.
That's my whole program.
That's what it was about.
Oh, when I used to I used to read Neville's catalogs and sensei and God, anything that
was in that 45 to 50 day range just looked attractive.
It did.
And I just you know, I didn't get any I didn't believe it.
I really put the fucking the Amsterdam guys through a lot of shit in my years just because
I called bullshit on a lot of them because I grew out a lot of their strains.
And I was just like, this is, you know, I'm at 60 days.
I'm not going to argue at a 55 or 60 day flower.
Right.
That's fine with me.
But you're saying 45 today, 45 to 50 days.
I'm like, yeah, I don't know about that, you know, and they give me the fucking yields
of the gap.
I don't know about that, you know, like, but again, maybe again, that's business.
So they need to they want to sell that seed and they want to sell that seed to be attractive
to the indoor grower or attractive to the North American grower who if they are going
to grow outdoors, they want it to be done in September.
They need it to be done by October.
You know, I mean, when you when you look at like California history before the helicopters,
people were fine with things taking into November.
Right.
No big deal when there was no police pressure and they weren't worried about their crop
getting chopped.
Yeah.
November's fine.
All of a sudden you get camp and you get all these helicopters in the sky and they're like,
when can I pull down in September?
Yeah.
That extra two months is a real problem.
Three months is an extra problem.
We had snow that we had to worry about up here.
Right.
Like the cops, the cops here go out in August.
Right.
And the choppers are in the air in August, September, maybe kind of thing.
Right.
Because we have to be down ideally end of September, early October.
If you go anything past that, bud rot and stuff like that.
You know, we still get the humidity.
We are surrounded by the Great Lakes.
We get you know, we get the cold, the hot days, the cold nights.
We get bud rot like you wouldn't fucking believe.
You know, I believe I believe it.
I mean, I I think as as some of these states like New York and New Jersey and and a lot
of these New England start to open up and what they want is they want all these California
bread strains.
Yeah, I know.
Because that's what's famous and they want to sell the name.
But what they really should be after is the Canadian bread stuff.
Well, they again, but they're like we say before, the BC bud is going to sell the SW
Ontario bud.
They're going to what the fuck does that mean?
Right.
Even the Quebec nugget, the Quebec bud, they're going to say, oh, I know Quebec.
They're not going to know of Ontario.
And Ontario is the biggest fucking most populated state.
It definitely by far has the most pock rovers in it simply because of per capita, the amount
of fucking maybe not per capita, but because of the amount of people population.
Right.
But it's it's going to be a hard sell to say Canadian Canadian buds.
It's all they're all going to say BC bud.
Right.
And it's marketing.
That's it's what's going to sell it kind of thing.
Or, you know, fortunately, whatever.
To me, I really could give any fuck of a less, honestly.
But, you know, it is it is hard for me here trying to sell down into the States.
Unless they they knew me or they knew the genetics, I was growing and high times their
office knew what I was doing because I used to fly down there with weighed out aces and
weighed out quarters in glass jars.
I also was it was a 25th anniversary party.
They had Cypress Hill and Joan Jett and whoever else.
I supplied all the pot to that party because high times couldn't really afford that back
then, especially the high end pot.
All the super, super nice nugs that you see in that magazine and you see Snoop Dogg with
a big fucking plate of buds in front of them and big joints.
They rent all that pot.
They rent it.
They rent it.
Rent.
You can rent weed.
Yeah, they rent weed for the Photoshop for the photo op.
And then anything that is smoked, they're paying four or five, six hundred dollars an
ounce.
So they're just when they were telling me that they're like, oh, fuck, man, they're
all another fucking big fat fucking blunt.
That's going to cost us fucking three hundred dollars.
You know what a bunch of clowns.
Yeah.
Well, you got to remember what era it was, though, too.
I mean, it was it was it was ridiculous.
You know, I know Sean was trying to get us to talk about like our our, you know, some
of our Amsterdam and Cup experiences because we overlapped.
When I would go, I went to three cups in the 90s, I think like ninety five, ninety
seven, ninety eight.
Right. Right.
And what I experienced was that like you were just saying, all the best weed was set
aside for like the celebrities.
Yeah. And the people that were going to pay top dollar for it and the people that
wanted to show up and like they didn't care if they drop mad coin.
So it was actually like one of the worst weeks or months to visit to visit Amsterdam,
because if you were just a normal person, they're like, well, we have good weed, but
we're going to sell it for three times what it's worth.
Yeah, because people are North American tax.
Right. You're going to pay the North American tax because we have all these celebrities
coming in and we have all these musicians and stuff and these entourages.
Right. We've got all this weed and hash that aside just for them.
And we're going to charge them out the nose for it.
And so we can't give it to you unless you want to pay this like exorbitant price.
Yeah. And so it was like it gets ridiculous.
And again, New York is the same way.
L.A. was the same way.
New York and L.A. obviously with the highest markets, I think, ever any place in the
world. And when High Times used to do like in the very back of the pages, like the
prices from around the world and around the country and how much an eighth was and how
much an ounce was and stuff.
It was always L.A. in New York at the fucking top kind of thing.
But with with with with working with High Times and Kyle knew my genetics, like I
said, when he was coming here to buy it and shipping it back to Detroit, I would send
I would send nugs down to him.
And we had a thing going where I mail it to the High Times office and then inside I'd
be like, I hope this gets you busted, you fucking douchebag.
And and and putting in all this hate mail with a half pound of pot in it kind of thing.
Right. And when the 25th anniversary party was coming up, they reached out to me and
said, hey, listen, would you be interested in selling this pot?
And I was like, yeah, sure.
I was like, I mean, we've been doing it enough kind of thing.
I said, what were you guys thinking?
They threw out a number and it was something like like three grand a pound or
something like that. And I said, I said, and U.S.
So I said, OK, let me think about it.
And I'm like thinking myself, what fucking kind of people are these fucking morons?
So I call them back up.
I say, listen, I can't take three grand, you know, and then Kyle's like, you know, Pete,
that's pretty fair. I was like, OK, I'll do this.
I'll take twenty four hundred dollars a pound.
Right. U.S. and I'm going to mail a few boxes of jars.
So I didn't like I didn't mail zip or freezer bag, half pounds of pot other than what
they wanted for the party, which was just a few pounds or something like that.
But I mailed probably at least a pound that was already weighed out and sealed in glass
jars with fucking homemade labels on every jar.
And I would I would mail them separately.
And then when I got down there, I sat in Steve's office.
Well, either Bloomey's office or.
Who's out there's one other office, anyways, I would just I would sit in their office and
they would come in like one at a time and choose.
I was like and I was like, listen, it's fucking.
And I think I was.
Stiffing them a little bit, I might have charged 50 bucks an eighth kind of thing because
I could and it was like I was shipping literally jars that were cured and it was like my
nicest stuff. I got that's a risk.
I got to sit on the couch with Jack Herrera and I was super stoked because I was like,
listen, Jack, I want you to smoke this golden haze.
It's my strain.
I read it, but I use some genetics that, you know, what is NL5 skunk one that made his
that sense he used to make his dream.
I use some of that.
I used a.
A version of keeping that kind of blend in mind because it was exactly what I wanted in
my stream, I wanted, like I said before, short fat sativa.
Giving high from a plant that's going to finish in less than 60 days and I could grow in a
fucking room with nine foot ceilings.
Yeah. And it was like when he when he, you know, tried my my stuff and he's like, wow,
that's fucking really nice, tasty, so on and so forth.
I made my fucking it made my career at that time kind of thing just to get there and and
smoke a joint with him at the same time having.
Who was the head of who was a Hagar Hagar that is.
Hager, yes.
Even here. Yeah.
So I would I think I was sitting in his office, actually, because he was the head honcho.
And I was selling fucking quarters and ace and shit like that pre jarred up to the entire
staff kind of thing.
And then the party was, you know, that night and I was just like they paid me fucking
ridiculous amount.
I mean, and I took less far less than what they were offering me because I was kind of
honored one that I can.
Yeah. You know, supply the pot.
But I was also making a shitload of money by selling them my private growers jar
collection kind of shit.
So that's a testament to London, because like you don't know how hard it is, like being
on on the Internet and talking to weed guys, trying to say that southwestern Ontario had
fucking great pot.
Nobody believes it.
No, they don't know what it is.
Yeah, they're just like, you can't have great pot, man.
All you have is fucking cities and cornfields.
But again, it comes down to population.
When you when you have 10 to 15 times the amount of people jammed into a certain area,
there's going to be phenomenal pot growers as well as the the the people that really
want to find that unique strain.
And they travel the world, maybe not for pot, but due to the amount of people, the
population, they travel all over the world.
And if they fucking find pot in Thailand or North Africa or someplace and like, oh, I
got a couple of seeds, but throw them my fucking in my shoe.
Yeah. And it's just because of the amount of people that we have coming back here.
And again, why I would always say that I think southwestern Ontario produces some of the
best pot growers and genetics passing through in Canada.
A lot of that, though, is due to community building, because like, you know, the Hemp
Nation thing, like when that happened and you were offering what you did at that place,
a lot of people learned a lot from it.
Even it literally planted the seed for a lot of people, right?
Because Chris gave gave people the option to buy their own seed, not take bagweed and
find a seed and not know, you know what the fuck it is.
We were we were kind of weeding out some of that.
We were telling you what it is.
We will tell you it's going to be something within this range because it is an F1.
We just took this sensi seed and we took this greenhouse seed and we grew them.
And this is what we got.
And the mother was this and the dad was this and this is what they look like.
And this is when they finished and so on.
So we gave them an educated guess.
But it was literally planting the seed of people.
When I started that Grow Your Tuition campaign in London here just for all the students,
right, giving them discounts, I had a coupon on a flyer that gave them a discount on
GrowGuides. And and then, like I said, information, the best thing about information is
it's free. If you wanted to come down on the Sundays and we have cultivation talks, you
know, I didn't mind sharing that.
I fucking love talking about that's what we're doing right now.
Right. Like, yeah, we were doing this back in the mid 80s, mid 90s kind of thing.
Well, like back in the fucking it's really it's actually really hard for me to tell
people today with like what we're doing right now and all the forums and I.G.
and all the ways that people can connect how tough it was to get information, how how
small groups used to be, how rare it was to find people that like knew what they were
doing. And then the other thing is like I always I still consider like 90s to be like
the golden era of weed, just in the sense because basically any like weed was rare
enough that it could take too long.
It could not look that great.
As long as it worked really well.
Yeah. It was going to gain popularity, you know, because there was there was only so
much of it. So like a lot of the famous strains in the 90s rose to the top because
they were really good. Yeah.
You know, they didn't really have a I think a lot of people nowadays, you know, the
placebo effect comes into play a lot with all these new genetics.
Sure. There's a lot of fire out there, but there's people that are just like, oh, well,
this is this strain, right?
Oh, this is a kush. Oh, well.
And it has the smell of a kush, but it has a you know, it doesn't really rock you like
some of the other stuff.
But since it smells like it looks like it, fuck it must fucking be the fire.
Close enough.
And then they're just like, oh, yeah, I'm super high.
I'm super high. You know, I've done that with my my clients at the Compassion Center
where they were they were like, oh, you know what?
I Northern Lights doesn't work for me.
It's you know, I've tried it and it's it's just, you know, I smoked it back in the
80s. I didn't like it.
Didn't didn't get me high.
OK, well, the Northern Lights I have is not the same, but I give them the Northern
Lights that is fire for other people.
They're like, yeah, it didn't really do it for me.
I mean, your mind is quite strong tool.
Yeah. I would do the same thing.
And I was infamous with my organic traveler crew, like all the, you know, glass
blowers that were downstairs and all this that thought they were these these pot
snobs. And they'd be the same thing like, oh, yeah, you know what?
That's that stuff's, you know, it's not that great.
OK, well, they had that tasty bud shit, that little fucking flavoring.
Oh, God.
Yeah. You plant juicy J's tasty buds.
Yeah, whatever. Fuck.
So I would actually take some of that.
And I would take fucking great pot.
But, you know, the fragile this one glass blower, he was just always against like, I
know that. But he was like, oh, I had this cherry bomb once and it was fucking
awesome. So I fucking took the cherry shit and did a little light mist on it kind of
thing and put it in the jar and let it sit there.
And and same fucking string that I gave him, right.
Yeah. Need to look a little bit different.
Made him look a little bit smaller as I can.
Listen, this is not called Cherry Bomb.
It's called Cherry Blossom.
This guy just came through.
He's from Tobacco or fucking Peterborough.
And he opens it up and he's like, oh, yeah, it smells like this is good.
He fucking smokes. He's like, yeah, that's fucking.
So we need to try this.
This strain as I fuck you, dude.
That's the God that we fucking you smoke.
Fucking two weeks ago, you said was shit.
You know, I just put tasty bud on it.
And now none of those guys would fucking trust me to give him any fucking pot.
And I'll fuck. No.
Yeah. You're in that.
Fuck you, man. That's fucking tasty.
But now it's like, no, it's actually not kind of thing.
But so, yeah, I've been accused of using that on some of the blueberry stuff we put
out. The tasty bud stuff, like when people smell like good blueberry stuff.
Yeah, I think this is a syrup.
I think a lot of people, you know, and if you smell my B93, like it does, it smells
like not the blueberry smell, but it smells like a pint of actual blueberries.
Right. You know, I see a little bit more that that sweet, earthy aroma kind of thing.
And again, it's from it's from ninety three.
That's when we started to speak.
Right. Like it's an it's an old fucking plant kind of thing.
I got them.
I'm going back to that era and it would have been I would I would have got him
indirectly. OK.
Or basically it was when he was first releasing his blueberries.
If I remember correctly, I mean, Tony could have had it earlier.
Don't get me wrong. But I think that Tony had with Simon and they had Cerebral in
ninety four. Right.
And then they split and Tony made Sag Martha and Simon made serious.
Yeah. You know, I think I think DJ Short was with Tony, with Tony and they did the
bubble gum and they called it ninety four blueberry.
If I remember correctly.
Yeah. He worked with Tony.
He sold it through Tony first and then they had some falling out.
And then I think he moved to Dutch Passion.
Yes. Yeah.
And then he got angry at all of them and then he and then he moved it to Canada.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
And that's the thing is and this is where he met up with Steve and Red and I'll call
him the air mechanic because I don't know of a nickname for him.
He was a great grower.
Didn't do anything huge like 12 lights or something, but I know if I'm not mistaken,
Red would be the better information on the background on this.
But I believe they bred the blue satellite.
OK, I know they were doing a grow out for DJ and.
But that was a little bit later, so I the seed that I got was just before that, and
that's where I was thinking that it might have came indirectly from DJ.
But it would have been like I thought I know it was 93, but I thought it was actually
from him and not from from Tony or from.
Is it is it a clone that's still alive?
Yeah. Oh, I literally just killed off like six, 75 to 80 percent of my genetics.
Yeah. Because I'm just I'm retiring.
I'm tired. Really frustrated.
I was actually there today trying to salvage what one of the two
one of my staff from the center.
He's like, if you can save me all these strains, I'll find somebody to grow to to
babysit him for you until you get over this divorce shit.
And if I wanted to go into it like out of the hundred and twenty three.
Hundred and twenty three strains that I had, I had data collected on their use,
medical uses through the Compassion Center going back almost 15 years.
Yeah. So because in Canada we cannot say, well, this strain works for this medical
condition. Sure.
What I could do is saying out of the 30 people that suffer from MS, this is their
the top selling indica.
This is the top selling sativa.
I think that's responsible, actually.
And it would just be basically giving them.
Well, it's data.
Well, I can't say it's data to use.
I mean, I did it for like literally for almost 15 years.
I've collected this. That's the most important shit.
I had it all fucking ready and packaged to go into the LP's up here.
And I just fucking saw the dark side of the fucking industry that was just chewing and
spitting out anybody from the movement.
Yeah. And I took a lot of heat from people.
I think we talked about this last time from people in the movement that thought I sold
out by going to into the LB.
Legal, I mean, it's crazy because it's what you've been working for your entire life.
Yeah. It's like, fuck it.
That's fucking crazy.
You can't fucking steer the boat if you're standing on the shore fucking yelling like
get on the phone.
As like the best direction you can.
And that's what I was doing with my genetics.
I was like, I can't.
I was again, strange names are names to me because I'm I'm out for the medical benefits
of it. I don't give a fuck what you call it.
And that's going to come back to the dog shit where it doesn't it didn't really make a
difference. Now, I had a I had a strain I called warm diarrhea.
Right. Oh, it was really marketable.
Yeah, I know. It was this one strain didn't produce a fuck.
But holy God, Jesus, did it ever smell like dog shit, fucking warm diarrhea, like hot
summertime, fucking diarrhea squirted on your leg kind of smell.
Yeah, I know.
They mark it.
Like fucking I know it's phenomenal.
Fucking plot.
Now, it's like so I called it that.
I was like, I don't know what it is.
It's a fucking clone that I went to.
I was consulting a guy's garden.
He fucking said these are my strains.
I was like, where are they from?
He's like, I fuck, you know, my brother in law gave me some of this and some of that.
And I found some seed in this and that.
And this one fucking one plant was like, holy God, Jesus, that's nasty.
I got to have it. Got it.
And, you know, with with Sam, when he was doing his skunk and everybody was like, oh,
it's you know, that that and I just have this conversation today, actually, with my cousin
because he's like, I had a skunk one back when back when Tilly was fucking growing for
the center. Right.
And I'll find the picture because it may it was a full page picture in high times.
And it's this kid holding one of the nugs up and he's holding his forearm and the nuggies
twice the size of this kid's forearm.
Oh, wow. That was my skunk one.
And it's you know, you grow the true skunk one, I believe is mainly grown for structure
more than that skunky smell, if I'm not mistaken.
I think Sammy was actually trying to get rid of and I think I was.
That's his claim. You guys will cover this.
You don't you don't follow like modern culture and stuff, but like there's been a
massive, massive movement on finding roadkill skunk, which everyone.
That is strange because I was going to I make it that this the cuttings that I sent out
west today, this guy and I don't know his fucking name, I'll find out.
But he sent one of my Sasquatch, a kid that works for me, who is like the cannabis
connoisseur. He ended up getting this fucking jar of skunk one.
I opened it up and I was like, holy fuck, that's my skunk one.
It smells like and I called it roadkill skunk one.
I didn't know that was a name called roadkill.
Yeah, yeah. It's not a strain, though.
It's just it's just a reference to a type of expression that can come from Afghanis or
skunky plants.
OK, well, this this skunk one grew the structure and the and my cousin just said,
listen, if you get it, I want to breed with it because it has the if it's the same cut
that this guy is sending me, it smells the same.
The nugg looks the same.
I have to find out if the structure is the same because the structure was what the
skunk one was all about.
Like, yeah, I have that big nug that fucking can hold itself.
And like I said, this Tilly kid that was growing and we do it on an evanflo table and
they were just spikes.
They were just these big, beautiful fucking fragrant roadkill smell skunk one.
So, you know, and I think I was I try to put some of your guys podcasts on.
I don't listen to podcasts.
So in all honesty, the first and only podcast I really listened to was like three nights
ago when it was while I was going to bed and I wanted to hear what we did.
Yeah. And something else came up and you guys were talking about Sam's breeding, trying
to breed out the skunk one, the skunky smell, you know, actually, and and focusing on
structure. And I was like, that's ironic because that's what I wanted.
But I was also chasing that that super skunk kind of aroma.
Yeah. And it was this roadkill like, yeah, because it doesn't smell like skunk when you
spray it, that tarry kind of burnt fucking smell.
It had that fucking you driving down the fucking road and you're like, holy shit.
Yeah. That's skunk, you know?
Yeah. It adds that smell to it.
So maybe if I remember that from like London, I definitely remember skunky smells.
And like I kind of relate it to like that Heineken skunky beer smell more than animal
smell. Right.
I have a question for you, Sean.
This is totally off topic.
Does Canada get green Heineken bottles or brown?
Green.
Jesus Christ, not so.
Yeah. Green.
No. OK, so check it out.
Right. So you can say Jesus Christ.
But I go to Holland in the 90s and they have the Heineken brewery.
Right. It is like it was it moved now.
Like but it was in Amsterdam and they gave tours, you know.
And so if you buy a Heineken in Holland, it's in a brown bottle.
Right. And you talk you talk to the Dutch about it.
And I'm like, well, why?
Why is it in a green bottle in America?
And they're like, oh, because you guys are dumb, but it's iconic over there.
So you want the green bottle, but it oxidizes.
So it makes the beer go skunky and shit.
Yeah. If you get it in Europe, it's a dark brown bottle.
OK, because we don't want the light to fuck it up with the UV light.
Well, but that tastes like we have another beer used to this like oxidized skunky beer.
Yeah. So it's like and he's like, you buy in Heineken anywhere in Europe, it's in a
brown bottle. You go to the USA, it's in a green bottle.
And he's like, it's just advertising.
We have we have two.
We had two beers that were like the pot beers and it was Heineken and Moosehead.
And Moosehead was also in a green bottle, you know.
But they both had that very skunky, skunky like to get a six pack and some weed and
smoke weed and smoke like and drink.
Moosehead was like that was the thing, you know, that was like they paired, you know,
you guys are so Canadian, bro.
Yeah, I mean, what's funny about it?
I haven't drank beer in like 20 years.
I'm not a beer. I just I just I just had to throw it out there because I was like
shocked when they literally were like, oh, we only do that to the dumb Americans.
Right. That's like legit what they said, you know.
And so I was like, oh, I guess that includes Canadians.
But yeah, what's funny about what's funny about the skunk, you know, is that like
we're all so old now.
Right. There was this thing that tripped me out because you don't feel old in your
head, even though when you're getting old, where I saw this thing where like the
90s are as far away now as the 60s were in the 90s.
Yeah. Right.
And so there's all these smokers that like they all the stuff we're talking about, all
this stuff that's like our youth, you know, and, you know, in our 20s and everything
else that was so common.
This is all legendary.
Just words now.
The reason why they're hunting that skunk is because it's gone away.
And while it was super common in the 90s and there was lots of weed that was very
skunky or had skunk type turps, it's kind of gone away, you know.
And so now it's like, you know, we were talking about how B.C.
Bud rhymes or whatever, but like Northern, all these strains are coming back again and
they don't even have to be the actual strain anymore.
It just has to have the name.
Yeah. Because the name is going to survive.
The population, the users are so young that they won't know the difference.
They don't know. They weren't.
They were smoking the NL back in the day.
They're not smoking pot anymore kind of thing.
Right. So.
Mark this down.
You know, like the big the big strain back in my day was like the NL5 skunk one.
Right. Like that was the go to.
That was if, you know, the center of the road, easy to grow big yield, depending on
what phenotype you got, you know, it kind of was the best of all worlds.
And it was again, it was an easy grower kind of thing.
But, you know, to find anything like that, I think like pot now is so bastardized.
Yes, I agree.
It's it's not as simple, you know, and sure.
My man.
Well, I did have another question.
We were talking about the triple SC last time.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Right.
And so do you have any contact to any of the good old boys that were part of that
group? Yeah, we interviewed them.
OK. Corral, the original owner.
OK. Now, was he out of Amsterdam or very much?
Very much so. He's a Dutch born.
Yeah. OK. So but he's not originally from the States.
He didn't know. He didn't move there.
No, he's he's definitely Dutch.
OK. So did they have offsprings of the.
Their group in California.
No, they said they never worked with anyone in the United States ever.
Now, what not work with I'm just thinking that after they were there, that they move
that after maybe some of their colleagues, staff or something, I want to find out about
the Golden Boy, because the way I what I was told was that this strain came from
Ontario. And I would say maybe like more up central, north of southwestern Ontario.
But it came from the triple SC.
Or somebody from that group that is now living in Canada and we're going back to
like, like that's what I see.
Didn't have a strain called Golden Boy either.
They had they had like M1, M2, M3, M4, M5, M6, and then they'd have little names after
but it'd be like Nigerian Kandahar or Skunk One or Basic Five.
It was very, very basic.
There's Williams Wonder.
Yeah. All names like that.
No Golden Boy, though.
Can you ask him, though?
Like, yeah, if you can reach out and just ask him because the story that I had was it
came from from their group and I believe it was bred by them and it might have had like
an M24 or something like that.
Yeah.
But and it was a it was a 45 day finishing plant.
And that's what was so was a fucking crazy wasn't the best yielder.
It was a really weird looking plant, but it was 45 days.
Was it an Indica or Sativa?
It was.
I would say it would have leaned.
I would say I wouldn't even say it would lean either way.
I would have to look at some of the pictures.
That's so fast.
That I think I even have.
That's like Mighty Might Fast, isn't it?
Dude, it was super fast.
It was ridiculously fast.
It wasn't a great strain on its own, but it was great for breeding.
Yeah. And that's what I again made the my to it's called Golden Haze because there was
other things and it was chemo and skunk in it.
And we crossed it with the Golden Boy because I wanted to speed it up.
But my my what I was looking for was a fast growing short fat Sativa.
Yeah. So the the haze, there was a.
Early skunk.
Chemo crossed with the haze and then we crossed it with the Golden Boy to speed it up
and interesting, you know, see all over the place.
I just I found one that seemed to fit the the mold I was looking for.
And I just I didn't have a seed of it.
I just had a a cutting of it.
Yeah. And then we did breed it with some other strains.
My buddy Skifa, who unfortunately has passed away, but he he crossed it with something
blue strain.
Maybe it was even like blue skunk.
I'll have to look it up.
I might still have some of those seeds, too.
But I just wanted to find the lineage of that Golden Boy because I was told it came from
the triple SC boys.
I got early 90s, maybe mid 90s.
So they were done by then.
Yeah, they were done. That's I mean.
Yeah. Yeah. They were long gone by then.
But I'm just thinking if it was offspring from them and even being literally offspring
kids of theirs or something like that, that moved to Ontario and brought.
That's possible, I guess.
Yeah. I wonder I wonder if his son moved out there because his son took over the company
eventually. He's the one who runs it now.
Yeah. Yeah. And again, this wasn't anybody that.
I knew it was just that was the story that was brought to me and like I said, the strain
was a really unique strain, but it's super fast.
And I was like, fucking we knew it was going to be a breeding staple for us until we grew
it out. And we're just like, yeah, this plant is fucked up.
Look, I'm kind of shit.
It did you weird shit.
Did you like C-99 at all since you were looking for plants that were fast, hazy?
I'm grown. I have a C-99 right now.
I came from this guy Tank out of Toronto area.
I did grow it.
I'd have to look at my notes.
It just tends to be one of those ones that spins out like that.
It wasn't super fast. It didn't stand out as the 45 day.
It might have been like a 55 day.
A lot of the stuff we do is like 56 day kind of stuff because we had 50 lights and I needed
to produce. I needed things to grow and finish all around the same time.
Yeah.
And we did we did do the C-99.
It did have a following.
Yeah. We wanted it.
We did. We did want to bring it in and incorporate it.
That photographer that you couldn't remember.
Yeah. Andre Grossman.
Yeah. Somebody commented.
Yeah. I thought it was going to be Mel Frank.
I think. Did I put that in the notes?
And I sent you notes. I was like, oh, you have to bring this up.
But yeah, Andre Grossman.
Fuck. I love that guy.
He was phenomenal.
Fucking phenomenal. Him and there was another photographer at Amsterdam called himself Yop.
He did like the first really micro trichrome photography.
OK.
And he yeah, he shot through a microphone, a microscope, and he did some pretty
interesting photography.
He's like one of the he was the first, I think, that did micro photography on cannabis.
But Grossman, a really nice guy, super talented.
He's the one that shot Kyle's special blend poster.
Yeah. You know, and I lost track of him.
I should try to find him.
I know you should. I'd like to talk to him.
Last time I spoke to him, I believe was right after 9-11.
And I call him.
I was trying to find him in more of a panic because being a photographer myself, if he was in the city, he would be the type of guy that's running towards the fucking buildings.
Yeah. Yeah. Before they came down kind of thing.
So I was kind of concerned about that.
But anyway, we did a few, I would say, shoots together because he was well, well more established than I was.
But he did help me because I would I would find out through him what he was getting paid.
And I said, well, if you're going to use a centerfold for me, I want to get paid the same or close kind of shit.
Right. Yeah. Well, back then, like you did.
Did you do school for photography?
Yeah. Yeah. I studied the three year program here in London.
OK, so like you were like early, early cannabis photographer.
Right. How many photographers were around back then?
Yeah, there wasn't very many of us like that.
You ever meet Ang Lee?
I was Andre and I both were listed as contributing photographers in the inside cover.
Right. But he ended up getting lots of a lot more centerfolds, covers and stuff like that.
And and yeah, I don't I think he might want to school.
I'm actually I just met with Fanshawe and we're going to I'm going to put together a scholarship in my name, ironically, for the program, because I want to.
I want, you know, kids to know that you don't have to be a fucking portrait shit photographer, you know, you can be a pot photographer and still make good and kind of, you know, even though I went to jail for it and shit like that, I think make a story for a scholarship.
But like, yeah, well, in the last episode you mentioned, like when you were at the border, you had ten thousand negatives, like ten thousand.
That's a lot of photos, man.
Oh, dude, I had boxes and I just found a box.
I'd love to have you scan some of these.
Like that. Did you ever thought about doing a book?
Now, now there's people that you keep track of the strains in these pictures.
Like, did you write on it? What strain?
Yeah. What I used to do is I would take a picture of the plant and then I'd take a piece of paper and I'd write what the strain was and put it in the picture.
And then I would do a shoot of that strain.
Yeah. Close ups and and full plant shots and stuff like that.
And then if I if I liked it enough for and I thought High Times would like it, I would shoot it on a positive on a slide.
Yeah. Because they had better color saturation and it was better for them.
And then a lot of the times I would bring out my old Super 8 video camera and videotape what I was doing in the garden just so I would have reference because I was doing a lot of stuff.
I mean, that's going to be super important.
Like, I don't know if you understand that, but because because so much has changed and so many things have been renamed over the years, it was a really prime time during those years to get point.
Like when you say like point of origin for like land race stuff, this is like point of origin for like land race stuff.
Like in their natural habitat, like getting pictures of, let's say Romulan in Canada during this era.
time during those years to get point, like when you say like point of origin for like
land race stuff, this is like point of origin for a lot of these strains like in their natural
habitat, like getting pictures of let's say Romulan in Canada during this era.
That's very special and we don't have a lot of pictures of things like that anymore.
When I was up, there's a strain called Biker Bob, which was a big out in California, in
BC for a while there.
Who else set up that?
I know I did this shoot with high times in mind.
I think Red set it up, but maybe Mark, no, I don't think Mark set it up.
Somebody set it up, but like it was up in North of Whistler and I used to blindfold
myself on all of these photo shoots.
I wouldn't go to a photo shoot, especially if I didn't know the people, when blindfolded.
I was blind.
You'd never be blamed for anything.
Yeah.
I would just wear sunglasses and I would take the inside of the sunglasses.
Even if they said I didn't have to do that, they're like, dude, we know who you are.
You don't want to pop up on that radar ever.
Nope.
I'm just like, you know what, dude, you have a list of ... On that list is everybody that
knows about your garden.
I don't want to be on that fucking list.
If something goes south, I don't want to be on that list kind of thing.
That's smart.
We ended up in some really fucked up back shit area countries, good old boys, million
dollar fucking bros.
I'm sure.
When I was working in the interior, we ended up going to wine and definitely A.J. or something
like that, but super nice fucking guy.
And ironically, he blew his fucking transformer on the pole when I was there.
Sparks flying everywhere, fucking all the lights going off.
His entire fucking crew, I met this guy this day.
It's when I was working on that greenhouse.
His entire fucking crew fucking bailed.
Everybody fucking ran because they knew fucking hydro was coming.
Like, you just blew a fucking transformer.
It's on fire kind of shit.
And I'm so used to being the guy that ... Back in the Hemination days, I'm the one that had
the pickup truck with the topper on it that could fit all the pot plants and everything
in the back.
I'm not scared of the fucking cops.
I think I can outrun a lot of the cops, especially back then.
I was just like, fucking what are we doing?
What do you need to do?
Yeah, what do you need to grab?
Let's go.
And he was just like, we need to take this down.
We need to shut this door.
We need to screw this.
We need to do this.
And I was just like, fucking right.
We were there for a couple hours maybe before the hydro people showed up.
I think he put up his own fucking transformer on a pole or something and it blew their transformer
or something.
So he was definitely going to be fucking ... He was going to be there.
But we were just like, we're here to fucking help.
I was like, I don't want to know where your fucking garden is.
I'm blindfolded when I get here.
I'm blindfolded when I leave.
But while I'm here, I'm your fucking best friend.
I'll do whatever it fucking takes.
But yeah, I ended up always ... Even at that garden, I don't remember what the strains
were because I think, one, I was a little worried because I didn't know what I was walking
into on this one.
It was just a friend of a friend kind of thing.
When I got there, you could tell it was definitely organized guys on two wheels.
I don't want ... But the Biker Bob, most of the guys that are riding the Biker Bobs rode
bikes.
Yeah, yeah.
It makes sense.
I'm just going to turn on the light so you can see me better.
But yeah.
Did you bring your seed case with you?
I didn't.
I wanted to start going through it.
I didn't start going through it sitting on my desk downstairs because I actually want
to go through it all.
Yeah.
I want to go through it on the video with you so we could just ... So it'd be easier,
I guess.
I don't know.
You should just do a whole session on that.
Yeah.
Just do a whole session.
Yeah, we have to find ... Because a lot of the seeds I have are just seeds that came
to me with a story.
But that's the best part, right?
That's what people want to hear is the story.
These seeds can evoke a lot of these stories that you probably didn't even remember that
you had about certain strains.
Yeah.
But again, like the Elmwood.
No one's going to know what the fuck the Elmwood is, right?
The Elmwood is a strain that was super popular in certain circles in Southwestern Ontario
for outdoor, right?
But after this, people are going to be chasing it, guaranteed.
People are going to be trying to find it.
I'll have a shitload of those seeds.
And that's something else, like I was saying, is ... Yeah, but see, that's the same thing.
Now, I'm going to call him Double D because that's in Canada.
I used to work for him.
He's out on the East Coast, obviously.
But if he would know about that box story, yeah, I mean, Ed would know about it.
But I don't know too many people that want to talk to Ed.
Yeah.
Oh, you're referring to Rosenthal, right?
Yeah.
Someone in the thing was like, no, he's referring to Ed Borg.
I was like, no, he's referring to Rosenthal.
No, Rosenthal.
He knows Borg.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So yeah, just because, again, that's what he told Mr. Hamp and Steve when he was working
in Switzerland with those guys.
So again, everything that we talk about is ... And I was just reading something today
about the natives, a native saying where people like you, we want to remember our purpose
on this planet is to remember our legacy or something.
And it should be to continue our story kind of thing.
And everything that we, like we're discussing here, as we said earlier, was this is what
I was told.
A lot of this shit's just not written down.
It's not going to be written down for obvious reasons.
So that's why when I get to meet guys like you, I'm saying, well, if you know somebody
that knows somebody, this is what I heard.
And they might say, yeah, there's no way that happened.
And I would say, okay, well, at least I know now.
Yeah.
Well, it's kind of the purpose of this podcast is that a lot of the history is oral.
A lot of history is verbally passed on.
And it always was.
The natives didn't write shit down.
We had some carvings on the walls in the caves, and on stretched out leather.
But no, we have a, everything is around the campfire and tell stories and paint that to
the young ones.
And when I was at Rainbow Gatherings, the Granola Funk was a camp that we were staying
with.
And their contribution was building a stage.
Luckily, the one I went to, I was able to help build a stage so the elders could come
and tell stories about earlier years of the Rainbow Gathering and the history of the Rainbow
Gathering.
And I was like, well, fuck, we need that.
And that's what I feel this is for the cannabis industry, for the seeds is a lot of this shit.
This is what I've been told.
This is what I hear.
And if we can find people to, like I say, with the Triple SC Golden Boy story, you know,
is that, you know, was somebody pulling my leg?
Was somebody that told me this, did believe it because somebody told them that?
Yeah.
I'm still tempted to go.
He's like the one person that I knew that worked with Neville, helped Neville get the
castle.
I call him Neville, I didn't, I wasn't sure about using names.
Yeah, yeah.
D-E-D.
Okay.
Yeah.
I think that, I think he'd be, he would at least know something, I would think.
Yeah.
So, and like I said, what the story was is, you know, there was somebody, Neville was
supposed to sell a bunch of genetics to somebody, never came through.
He threw him in the back of a freezer when he was pulling out of, I believe, Amsterdam.
He came across them.
He passed them on to Ed, supposedly for like an outstanding debt or something like that,
or maybe just because he had them.
And they ended up with Steve in Switzerland.
Yeah.
And-
Whatever happened to the fast beer and all that stuff?
Yeah, the fast beer, the fast fatty, the night queen.
Are they still alive?
No.
Yeah.
But the Ortega, which was one of them, is in the Louis.
I don't, they didn't really like it.
Like I said before, they didn't like any of the strains that I liked, like the fast beer
and the night queen, because they were sativas.
And Steve and Red and those guys were all big Indica fans.
So they loved the Ortega.
I wish I could remember some of the other strains.
I'll have to kind of go through.
I have a-
Thank you for joining us on this journey.
We're forever thankful that enough people watch us to keep us going.
With that in mind, you can show your support for the show by liking, subscribing, and sharing
the show.
We don't advertise, so we need you.
Also hit riotseeds.com and syndicategear.com to show more support for the show.
Kick over the statues and bring it back to the farmers.
