Welcome to Breeder's Syndicate.
How you doing?
Good, how you doing?
Every so-called liquid silica product is made from potassium silicate and that's where your
pH issues come into play, or problems with raising the pH.
So we can get it from other sources.
A couple of the posters here mentioned rice hulls and that's true.
There's even a powdered rice hull product that Build-A-Soil carries.
I can't remember the name, but I've used it and it did well.
One person asked a very legitimate question, is it even necessary?
It depends.
Like in my worm bins, I run a lot of rice hulls as an aeration material.
So when that deconstructs, it's releasing the silica oxide.
I believe that's the form it's in.
So would I add it to my soil?
No.
But, you know, so that question isn't...
You need some silica in your soil.
And if you use it judiciously and get like the Ag-Sil product, because that's what all
the other ones, like the silly one from the guy Advanced Nutrients, WetBetty or some silly
name.
Yeah, yeah.
Even a sillier label.
But it's made from Ag-Sil.
I mean, all those products that you see in the grocery store or what I call the house
of perdition, they're all made with Ag-Sil.
So get Ag-Sil.
Yeah.
And then cut to chase.
And it's in a powder form, so you mix on an as-need basis.
It's good for multiplying horticulture oils.
I don't want to get into that mess, neem or corundum oils or whatever.
Yeah, and I still use them and they're full of crap.
The people, you know, you got to learn the difference between an extract and a pressing.
But that's like trying to explain why is it called unsulfured and not desulfured molasses.
And if you can't wrap your brain around that one, then I don't want to talk to you about
the differences between an extraction and using solvents in a pressing that goes back
at least 3,000 years.
You know, whatever.
I'll get off my soap.
How do you feel about like Power-Si, the orthosilicic acids and monosilicic acids, stuff that's
not from potassium silicate?
You know, to be honest with you, I'm a real minimalist.
If you looked at my recipe, the biggest criticism is, well, there's no there there.
Well, it's all in the worm castings.
You know, I don't look, I think everybody should recycle their kitchen waste.
If you don't do that, you should have to be forced to listen to some TV show that's really
horrible or something.
But it's not going to give you a worm casting.
It's too much water.
And as magical as worms are, they can't turn water into castings.
So you need bulk and that comes from either aged manure.
And by that we mean five to six weeks to allow the vermicides that are given livestock
for like we do dogs.
You warm them, right?
Yeah.
Well, those vermicides kill the good guys in our worm bins.
You need to let that sit for about five to six weeks and they'll degrade into a form
into its basic ionic structure, if that makes sense.
Yeah.
So it's no longer a vermicide.
It's carbon and hydrogen and oxygen and all those good things.
So we want to use that.
That gives us bulk.
And that's how you make good castings.
It's through bulking.
Yeah.
Well, yeah.
There's some, I'll leave it at that.
Yes.
A good bedding that's been elevated with nutrient dense materials like small amounts of alfalfa
meal, kelp meal.
I like to run neem and caranja.
This might, you might find interesting.
Caranja is actually a legume.
It's closer to an alfalfa plant than it is the neem tree, which is a mahogany.
And the properties in those two materials couldn't be more different.
There's no shared constituent.
Azadirachtin comes from neem and pangamia oil comes from caranja.
I'm not familiar with caranja.
What is that used for?
Well, in India, it's the preferred one for medicines for skin products.
And India has some of its own race issues.
The belief that lighter colored citizens are more intelligent than darkness is said to
be used to lighten the skin tone.
I know that it can work.
But if you went into an Indian market and went to the havas section, everything would
have either neem or caranja, shampoo, toothpaste.
But over here, if you get touched with neem, you're going to fall over dead or something.
Or you can't go to the Rose Parade or something.
But I mean, I'm a big neem spinner.
If you looked at the Ayurvedic medical system, you have the TCM, traditional Chinese, India
has the Ayurvedic.
And 72% of the bottled compounds, elixirs and stuff, 72% have some part of the neem
tree, root, bark, leaf, oil.
And it's behind the Tulsi basil, which is a forerunner of all basils, like the wolf
is to the canine friends.
Well, this one, okay, it's the most holy plant in India is the Tulsi.
And then neem is the second one.
So anyway, there you go.
Look up for some time, neemresearch.ca.
It's nothing to do with gardening.
Nothing.
It's more about human health, diabetes, viruses, all kinds of things.
You can rub the oil on your feet as a cure or a prevention of athlete's foot if you do
a lot of running or, you know.
So yeah, it's been around for 5,000 years, but suddenly 18 months ago, it became a point
of discussion at CannaCon and IndoExpo, you know.
It's just silly, but you know, whatever.
All this is appreciated.
There's people asking all kinds of questions.
Go ahead.
I didn't mean to dominate there, but.
Oh, no worries.
No worries.
I'm enjoying it.
Let's see.
Why is my worm casting running hot in sodium?
And you think I can push out sodium with calcium, gypsum?
No, because gypsum is simply calcium sulfate, and it's calcium in its elemental form, whereas
the calcium we get in, say, limestone or oyster shell, that's calcium carbonate.
So there's one calcium ion, there's one carbon ion, and then three oxygen ions in calcium
carbonate.
And this, in gypsum, you're getting calcium by itself, and then you get sulfur oxide,
which is water-soluble.
And so, like, let's say you're using coir.
One thing that has to be, you know, acknowledged is that it's an inert medium.
That's why it's preferred if you're going to use salts.
But in an organic soil, it's a nightmare.
What you want to do, the big one that's missing is sulfur.
And without sulfur, sulfur is at the base of almost every metabolical function on this
planet, including the production of terpenes, terpenoids, and ketones.
So it'd be a really good idea.
I've never read.
I'm using corn.
I can't get any flavor, and I don't get any aroma.
Okay, put a half a cup of gypsum, you know, and say a cubic foot, and there you go.
You're dancing.
Yeah, yeah.
That's something I had to learn on my own, too, to add sulfur, some kind of sulfur, too,
because I use coir.
That's all I use.
Right.
So I like a mix.
I like to add in a calcium carbonate, like limestone or oyster shell.
It doesn't matter.
It's the same thing.
And then a little bit of gypsum.
So I'm getting my own mineral calcium along with my calcium carbonate, and then I'm also
picking up some gypsum.
So I think that's a good balance.
I don't like using this term, but a liming agent, if you will.
Yeah.
For lack of a better one.
Okay, we have a request here on the history of the strain, the one, which is one I've
been fascinated with for a long time myself.
Okay, pretty simple.
In Laguna Beach in the late 60s and early 70s, before the whole LSD, the orange sunshine
thing took them apart, you know, it's one thing to taunt a dog behind the fence with
a stick, but you don't want to do that with the federal government.
Yeah, that's, yeah.
Especially when you live in containers.
Containers of hash.
Okay, those are like 48,000, you know, I mean, these guys weren't just a dude.
You got to go see the dude and get some stats tonight.
You know, this is like, you know, you got like even then 10 kilos to even communicate.
But anyway, so the seeds came in a lot of the guys because they're in the BOL, there
was like, it had to be 13, right?
13 original founding members.
Yeah, that was a given.
Okay, yeah.
And so seven were part of this ragtag motorcycle club that used to hang out at this really
weird bar not far from Disneyland.
And they were just, you know, drinkers and, you know, like rowdy bikers.
It was the 60s, man.
So there was also this group of surfers in the mid 60s that were traveling around the
world as it was easy to do, maybe easier than today.
And when surfing in the surfing spots all had somebody there with good weed.
So they started bringing some good weed back because they knew how to patch their boards
so they can make a hole in the board and stash in a pound or two.
And so that's been the two got together and then the whole thing.
So the seed that I had were from Kandahar 1970.
And I know exactly who brought him in the whole story.
Okay, so then I went off to the army, got drafted, kicking and screaming to send the
women and children first.
But off to save the world and make it safer democracy.
So I came back in December of 1976, the first tie sticks came in.
Okay.
And they came in 10 kilo bales.
20 of those pounds were sticks.
And since Amia was still two or three years away, so they were seedy, all get out.
And there was then two pounds of loose buds that of course had to be renamed the Buddha
buds.
Yeah, yeah, I've heard of that.
Yeah, okay.
So those seeds became the first crop I ever did that summer in 77.
And there was no grow stores, there was no new program.
I'm not even sure I would know what to do if I had a bottle of Maxi or Miracle Grow
or whatever, you know.
But I understood that you had to water plants.
And that was before the banking laws.
You could walk into a car dealer and buy four Celicas if you want and pay cash and it was
no big deal.
Yeah, no flags.
That came later in the Reagan administration, like, you know.
Just say no to that crowd.
So that was a female.
And there were 10 plants that were selected out of this mass.
I'm not a breeder, so if I told you, you guys would be laughing.
So this was like flying by the seat of my pants, just to be real honest about it, you
know.
Well, that's early on though.
No one was really...
Well, there were no seed companies and the guys in California were still dinking around
with goofy names, you know.
I had a couple, but I would have named...
That's another story.
So that one, the way it got the name was that they were all against the wall and they went
from Sativa over to Afghani Dominant, which I had no interest in at all.
So I just said, okay, the one over here is mine.
And so, oh, so it's like the one, huh?
No, it's like the one over here is mine.
And that became a running joke, you know.
It's still got the one?
Yeah, it's still got the one.
And so that's just like, you know, it has nothing to do with...
I thought it was like, oh yeah, it's like the one.
No, I've had the one that came from Sri Lanka and I didn't want to ever smoke weed again.
It was like that far out, you know.
It was like some Hindus, I mean, real Hindu, not...
You know, you picked it up in New Delhi, I mean, like in the Kush Valley or something,
you know, from the Sati.
Yeah.
So that's all, you know, no big deal.
And but ironic is that I've given that away.
I've never sold a cone in my life.
The last time I sold a seed was 77.
That's early.
That is early.
Yeah.
I take Thai seeds, you know, because I had them.
Yeah.
Because I learned early on that if I was going to take the risk of being a serious consumer
of cannabis, that you might as well do the good stuff.
So I would sell like...
I know you're saying I'm lying, I'm not.
But say I would get fronted like a ton or two of Columbia from guys in Detroit with
way too many valves in their last name.
They'd give you like two months to turn it.
So our motto was I don't want to own it, I just want to fingerprint it.
You know, bump it 25, 30 bucks.
Yeah.
And just keep it, you know.
So I would turn around and go buy like premium Mishmacon or O'Hawkins Spears for personal.
And I went to Sears and got a deep freezer so I could freeze it.
You know, so I could buy a three or four pounds, you know, that kind of stuff.
That's fucking awesome.
Yeah.
So that was, you know, can I just say one thing about skunk number one?
Sure.
You know, I mean, going back to the original, the mid 80s.
I don't get it.
What do you mean?
As far as like why it's called skunk in the first place?
You know, it's like I just don't get the whole thing about it.
I mean, why like it's that desirable.
Oh, OK.
Now I understand that one.
OK.
All right.
I can understand that one.
OK.
It's like, yeah.
Yeah.
I've never gotten it.
Somebody will give me a bud to try.
What do you think?
Now, let's see.
So did you clone this more than twice?
Why?
Yeah.
It's made it through three rounds, but.
Yeah.
I mean, yeah.
Come on.
One nice thing about growing an old strain is that you really can test the soil because
you can't test the soil.
I'm going to do.
I don't know, Skittles or Piddles or whatever it's called, right?
Yeah.
OK.
And then you over here.
Well, I'm going to try this, but I'm going to use.
I don't cookies or whatever.
Yeah.
Thing is, you know, whatever the hot button is.
But with me, I mean, I can tell you by day 24, I'm not going to finish this.
I appreciate you.
Let me try it.
But, you know, yes.
Go back to the drawing board.
So.
And so, in my opinion, which means nothing, is that at least if I test something for you,
I can give you an accurate comparison analysis of one that I've grown like forever.
Yeah.
The main reason people don't like mine is that if you really want to get the full, you
know.
Twilight Zone theme comes on right here.
You got to do at least 12, if not 14 weeks.
And here's the best part.
This is the part I love the best.
I've taken it 18 weeks just to see what it would take to get the trikes to turn even
cloudy.
It doesn't ever happen.
Never.
So you're never going to get the amber.
Forget that one.
All right.
Yeah.
Let alone cloudy.
Yeah, it never goes cloudy.
Even outdoors, like seven months.
Like Southern California, where you can take it through November into December.
Yeah.
It never goes cloudy.
That has to be the Highland tie.
That has to be.
I would think so.
Maybe if you tried like way less light hours, like six hours light.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Still didn't do it?
Over the years, I've done every.
I was ignorant.
Got into that.
Well, you know, you need this bulb.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Right.
This bulb will make it finish.
Yeah.
This bulb will make it finish.
Yeah.
Right.
Yeah.
This magic stuff.
What's in?
I can't say it's proprietary.
Excuse me.
You know, so.
But anyway, that's.
That's my, you know, just a guy that decided to get into this.
So I'll real serious and figure out I have post on my I.G.
P of a soil test that I mixed five years ago.
And it has all the NPK.
It has all the macro and micro nutrients.
And, you know, we're a week in the micro.
So what?
Throw some kelp in there.
That's why kelp is the perfect one, because it's a plant.
Right.
And it accumulates all 83 elements.
More importantly, in the right balance.
We don't go nuts.
That's adding some kelp will take care of all our micro nutrient issues.
Wow.
I didn't even know that.
It's the only brown.
Not not blue marine algae, not red.
But green, I mean, green, red, but brown, only brown is the only.
Organism on this planet that creates alginic acid.
And I'll leave you for research on that.
But you can see why.
Brown kelp has alginic acid.
Seaweed extract is created by by law under federal USDA regulations.
Has to be created with either sodium.
Hydroxide or potassium hydroxide.
The stuff they use in Drano to clean out your drain.
So they use that and they burn everything off.
So what are you left with?
You're left with powder.
You got your elements.
Might as well just do salts.
See what I mean?
Yeah.
All the life force is gone.
Yeah, but it's convenient.
But a convenience that is detrimental to your soil, in my opinion.
I don't want to put a fungicide in my soil after I've spent.
Several months building up the nutrient.
Yeah.
And fungal profile in my compost before I ever hit a warm bed.
Can I ask you?
Are you self-researched and you just you just delved into a hardcore and learned it all on your own?
Are you?
No, I'm academically.
Yeah, I was gonna say this is pretty heavy academic stuff.
Yeah, but the real stuff is that you have to do it.
You have to get your hands dirty.
There's no bottle solution.
There's a it's hard work.
And if you want to have scratch in the game.
You got to do it and be consistent.
Don't be my phone to release my product today.
Oh good.
Hey there.
It's Patty.
The one was a.
How you doing?
Malted barley, multilayer heirloom corn and hemp seeds.
And where can people get this?
Oh, build a soil.
It's called don't laugh.
I named it.
So I want to sound cool.
Gnarly barley.
Gnarly barley.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's 50% barley and it's 30% corn.
That's where the cytokines.
Yeah, and then the hemp which I can spend a couple days explaining all the enzymes and compounds.
Well, you know from it kind of goes like this.
If it works good on a plant, it's probably good for you and vice versa.
That's interesting.
Out.
The benefits from the hemp seed and all all multi means means nothing more than this.
It means that you took a seed and you germinated it and then you arrested it about 116 Fahrenheit.
But that does it leaves the.
It doesn't interact enzymes intact.
So we call that diastatic malt.
So he's now if we take that malt after it's dried and ready to store use and we caramelize it.
For flavor or aroma for ales and what have you.
That's great.
But it kills all the enzymes.
So now we call that non diastatic malt.
And if you use non diastatic malt in your beer formula.
Then you need to add.
The diastatic malt because you can't make beer without amylase is the main player.
Enzyme in the barley, but that's not what we benefit from.
Can I explain this?
This is really important.
But with okay.
So all plants produce chitinase and chitin itself is an acetyl form of glucosamine.
Okay, all seashells contain are made up from limestone.
Or calcium carbonate.
Okay.
But the crustaceans the crab the lobster the shrimp and I guess I would also include the one in the South.
Crawdads.
Yeah have chitin.
And chitin for example, you had surgery either oral or external.
They probably sewed you up with chitin string.
Okay, and that goes back to like the 1880s.
This is really got an interesting connection.
So 1922 this young man by the name of Albert Hoffman graduates from Cologne University and his paper is on the molecular structure of chitin.
And then 21 years later, he would introduce or find LSD 25 and then 15 years after that.
He was commissioned to do the research on these mushrooms out of Oaxaca.
And he's the one that gave the name to the two compounds psilocybin and psilocin.
So in a 15 year period here, he does LSD 25 read his book LSD my problem child.
There you go.
Right down guys book and then anyway, so the only thing that can deconstruct microbe that can deconstruct a polysaccharide.
Is fungi bacteria and their weak attempt to try to deconstruct it create an enzyme called chitinase and chitinase deconstruct eggshells in the soil.
So that's kind of cool.
You don't have to get a poison.
Yeah.
Yeah, and then equally important animal kingdom and plant kingdom have immune systems and implants.
You have like a chair hormonal acquired resistance and S a are systemic acquired resistance and some of them are called pathways.
The most important pathway in a plant's defense is the chitinase salicylic acid pathway.
This is Patty.
Okay, and every plant produces salicylic acid.
Some plants produce copious amounts like the aloe vera plant.
So probably heard in your career.
Oh, you can use willow shoots.
Oh, yeah.
Okay.
Well, that's all silica acid.
Okay.
And so that's why people would use aloe vera for this.
And that's what I know.
It started that I said, look man, I'm not climbing a tree.
I can go to the Mexican market and get a fresh aloe vera leaf and you just cut off the spiny stuff on the side.
And you stick your stems in there inside the jail.
I sit overnight and the next day put them in.
How are you?
I don't want to get into that one, but how do you do your cuts?
Yeah, and that salicylic acid creates a barrier against pathogenic fungi, your molds and all that.
I average seriously over 98% success using just that.
Actually, the best one is you can find true, like the sign on the side of the road that says honey.
So it's never been touched.
Yeah.
It's just you straight honey.
Straight honey?
Yeah.
Wow.
Yeah.
I had no clue about that.
Yeah, it's really cool.
But you got to get organic because what they do to honey from the time they pull it from the beehive to, I guess, in that jar with the little bear, you know, all that stuff.
Yeah.
It's a sad story.
It's not like the real deal.
Yeah.
But anyway, so that's why if we use malted grains in our soil, the chitinase, you don't have to go through the expense of using crab meal.
Because what you're really after is the chitinase, not the chitin.
Yeah.
So here you get it right in the malted grains along with urea, protease, protein, phosphatase.
What cannabis grower doesn't obsess about phosphorus, right?
Yeah.
Much to their peril, usually.
Yeah, right.
Yeah, but you get the idea.
I mean, so there's like 360 enzymes in a malted grain.
So what I can do and have done is I can document, okay, here are the enzymes.
You can take something out from under your fingernail and put it in water and say, well, it's got enzymes.
Oh, yeah, okay.
But I can explain each one and how they work.
And I'm only taking like 10 out of the 360 that are in barley.
And then you add corn to the cytokinins and what that does,
between the tip of the root system and then the meristem at the end of the branches,
is quite a phenomenal study.
And the first cytokinin was discovered in corn in 1937.
And the Latin name for corn is Zia.
So they named this enzyme zeatine.
That makes sense.
And there's other PGRs and other things in the corn besides that one enzyme.
Excuse me, hormone.
Yeah.
So anyway.
All right.
All right.
I was just thinking.
Botany 101, I probably bored your audience there.
No, no, I think everybody's fucking loving it, to be honest with you.
I love it.
I'd love to have you on anytime you are bored, want to come on.
I know it's a real treat for me and everyone else.
So I really appreciate it.
I like talking to gardeners instead of salesmen.
Yeah, man.
It's a pleasure.
Have you ever looked at my feed?
Your what?
My feed?
Yeah.
Okay.
You've seen some of the plants?
Yes.
Okay.
That one, a 10 and a half pounder?
Yes.
Don't you think it's a little disingenuous to come on my feed and tell me what I should be doing?
Oh, my good Lord.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's everybody's a scholar in botany.
Yeah.
Sometimes I want to say is maybe like do more reading and not so much editorial stuff, you know,
till you kind of I figured I've been involved in at least, yeah, at least 300, 325 serious
gardens in my career.
Yeah, I imagine so, dude.
Hey, the first slice I ever bought was some George.
Oh, yeah.
It was called George Avanti's then before he became Jorge.
Yeah, yeah, a place here in Portland.
It was one of three growth stores in Portland at the time.
That was it.
And we went and bought these Dutch lights from PL light systems.
Okay.
I mean the professional stuff.
I was going to burn down my house in Orange County, California.
You know, trying to grow some weed.
So we decide there was, you know, funding was available.
I'll leave it at that.
So yeah, we decided to set it up first cabin and I was using what do you call them?
Oh dosatron 30 years ago.
That's funny.
Yeah, and by like full jugs.
I think there were five gallons.
You have dyna grow and dyna bloom.
We'd write down to there was someone in the Bay Area like San Jose something like that.
Yeah, and so we just put the dosatron inside the jugs.
And then I did this drip system.
I mean by today's standard you guys got it made.
I mean, it's all off the shelf and plug and play for the most part, you know, we had to kind of like, huh?
So how are we going to do this?
Oh, yeah, which I like one time pulling stuff out of the field.
And staging it next to the pickup trucks and the guy that was like our leader.
I called him OPH our personal hero.
And in this case, I just said, hey Thumb Dick, have you given a thought where you're going to dry this?
And everybody just looks down at the ground like oh man.
And we were using bull tacos to go back into the forest to get the plants where I'm bringing back and stage them, you know.
So Jorge Cervantes, I know he's friends with some of the Northern Lights crew.
Did you interact with those guys at all?
No, not at all because that came out of what they called the BCGA, the British Columbia Growers Association.
And the NL came out of Canada on a guy that broke.
BCGA wasn't going to do business with any of the two groups that came out of Holland.
What is now called Sensi Seeds, then it was called the SSSC.
And then Neville and his partner, David Watson.
So they wandered around and everybody had cash, you know.
Briefcases full of cash and they were buying seeds and cuts.
So the Northern Light came out from a grower in Canada that said, hey man, you know, you cut hay when the sun shines.
You got money, I'm selling.
So that's how the NL thing went over to Neville's deal, the seed bank.
That was the only time I ever bought seeds in my life.
I bought them one time.
Hayes Northern Lights.
Did you find any keepers in it?
Did you find good stuff in it?
I never bought another seed again in my life.
You know, every story I hear about older growers that were growing the Northern Light hays in a tay day,
they all have very, very fond memories.
And they talk about how many keepers were found that became like well-known clone onlys that are still around nowadays.
Well, there is a caveat to my comment.
I want to make this really important.
Here's where you're getting conflicting things.
There was a case that I was indirectly, I wasn't involved, but I was on the possible list of come talk to us back in Boston.
And in discovery it came out that the DEA and the U.S. Postal Service was intercepting letters from the seed banks to customers here
and they were switching it out with ditch weed seeds.
Oh, fuckers!
This was in discovery.
This is what they came to the, you know, here's our evidence.
Evidence, whatever they call it.
I'm not an attorney, but they all sit around before they do lunch or something and decide how they're going to screw you.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, so I mean, that just like, it clicked.
But have you ever noticed how many times in your life, you've been, back in the forum day before social media,
like Icy Mag or Grasp and all that,
people go, well, my plant sure don't look like the pictures from the seed bank.
And I just used to think, I don't even want to open this can of worms, man.
I just, I'll be hated on forever for spilling that one.
Oh yeah, people are going to realize their collection's worthless and then they're going to really dislike the messenger.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly.
But no, that's, honest to God, I was like, I just went, well, that party's over.
So let's go back to square one.
And the seed bank we know, because we know who brought them into the United States
and the whole history and who had possession of them and everything else.
So I don't have a lot of confidence.
One greeter here, a farmer, whatever they call him, gave me 13 samples in those little jars with, you know,
probably a whole, I don't know, half a gram or half an ounce.
I had them all, Gorilla Glue, Girl Scout cookies, this, that, this, that.
I put them in a bag and I brought them home.
They were going to hire me as a consultant.
And so my wife's in the kitchen cooking dinner and I sat down in the living room
and I opened one up and I smelled it and I went, God, that's really terrible.
But, you know, you never know.
So I pulled out a nug and I busted it up and I put it in my pipe
and I got half a hit and I just put it down.
I went, it's ridiculous.
My wife comes around the corner and she goes, what's that smell?
And I said, oh, it's, and I don't want to name it because I'll get, you know.
But it's one that everybody has to have or you're just a complete dickhead, right?
If you're not growing this one, you're a dickhead.
Okay.
Yeah.
And I just said, and so I, you know, I was really polite, but I said,
I called the next day and said, I just don't see any connection.
I mean, what are we going to do?
Like redo your soil?
I mean, there's just more issues here than I can even.
Yeah.
I need like the biggest spreadsheet known to God to even get into the science
of why this thing's fucked up.
So, yeah, I wish you the best.
And sure enough, one season was over.
That was the first year I went legal here and there was funny money everywhere
from Asian banks, from European banks.
I mean, it was insane.
Who do they hire?
A growth store clerk?
That's your grow guy?
Really?
Oh, good.
Well, you need another Cal Mag lockout to handle this one.
Yeah.
Yeah.
There's no purpose in consulting for someone that's going to hire idiots
all along the side of you to perform, you know, complex shit.
Yeah.
And I'm enough of an egotist and a clown.
I just don't tolerate fools lightly.
I mean, hey, go do whatever you want.
I wish you the best, you know, instant karma, whatever.
Yada, yada, yada.
But I'm here to grow real medicine.
Yeah, exactly.
I'm not here to grow grass.
The whole hemp industry is like that, too.
The whole hemp industry.
I had just made my entrance into the hemp industry last year
and I was shocked at how many people are playing grower in that.
I really thought, I never fucked with it because I figured there are people
that are better than I would be at doing it because they've been studying
specifically hemp longer, working with it longer.
I figured they had that shit fucking dialed in.
And boy, was I confused when I got in there and saw the people
were just playing, constantly playing.
Hmm.
I don't know.
All I know is I know it's a wild world without cartwheels and, you know,
proprietary this and I can't tell you that.
I mean, think about it this way.
The issues facing the human race isn't whether Johnny gets his dank on.
It's how are we going to feed people?
And if this crap worked, they'd be sitting in front of the UN
picking up checks for billions of dollars on solving world hunger, right?
Right.
I mean, to me, it's that simple.
It is that simple.
So that's why, like, on my new product, I'm donating percent of my compensation
to an agency that plants forest around the world.
So.
That's beautiful.
I just think, you know, I just think.
I want everybody to get their dank on it.
And if some like new line, I want to do a line called coots,
newts spelled OTS with N OTS coots, newts, you know,
and I'll just look at it and say, look, this is what you want.
I'm feeding I'm feeding your deal, man, your Dharma, whatever it is you think you have to do to grow a plant.
I don't know. Thank you very much.
And goodbye, everybody.
It's my honor to have you on and I'd love to have you on again anytime, man.
Pleasure. Thank you very much. Bye bye.
Thank you, Fred.
What a treat that was. Fuck, he's so smart.
I'm going to have to go rewatch that several times.
Thanks for everyone stopping in. And thanks again to to coots.
That was our first conversation that we've had.
So, yeah, it was a privilege and an honor.
Take care, guys.
