Welcome to Breeder's Syndicate, where we explore the history of a clandestine seed
through the eyes of the folks who live here.
I'm Matthew, owner of Riot Seeds.
I'll occasionally be joined by my co-host, Notsojaw, breeder and grower from Mendocino.
Welcome to the underground.
We could talk about haze, sure.
Okay, let me flip this around so it's not going to be my face, it's going to be the
haze poster and I'll try to get it so it's nice and bright and illuminated and clear.
So let's see if that works.
Let's see.
I've got to aim this little light thing down more.
There we go.
Alright.
So here we start.
The original haze poster.
Now this is my pride and joy, willing it to Notso.
This was the cosmic, also referred to as the cosmic boogie poster from 1976.
RL and C or K, supposedly, and the Haze Brothers are all revolve around this.
So talk about some haze.
Oh, there you are.
Let's talk some haze.
Talk some haze.
I mean, where do you want to start with it?
Let's start with what do you think?
Haze C?
Haze A?
Do you want to start with haze males?
Do you want to start with the original breeding of haze?
Probably like the most realistic starting point is the mid 80s, right?
That's probably it.
So, you know, there's all this stuff about haze and obviously haze existed in California
in the 70s, possibly late 60s.
And there's not a lot of excellent sourcing on that aspect of haze.
There's a few people that know a bit and they don't really agree necessarily.
So kind of what happened is it seems like it was a, you know, if you believe Sam Skunkman,
it was a Columbian by Columbian cross.
And it seems like because people didn't understand breeding very well back then, the first initial
crosses and hybrids they made over the years were the best.
And if you look at his poster right there, you could see silver haze on one side, you
could see magenta gold on another, you could see different things.
These are all named phenos that would pop up out of their seed line, right?
But if you think back to the early 70s, people's idea of breeding was pretty rudimentary.
And so, you know, it went through some processes, people didn't really know what they were doing.
And it's kind of like a mystery exactly who, the what, the why, why and where in the 70s.
And then the story picks up when Sam Skunkman got himself into some trouble in America a
couple of times, and it appears that he took a bunch of seeds of skunk and haze, and then
he gathered up a bunch of other breeders work like Mel Frank and some other people's stuff.
And he went to Amsterdam.
And when he went to Amsterdam, he ended up hooking up with a number of folks, one of
them was Neville.
And this is where the story diverges.
So if you believe Neville's side of the story, Neville bought a bunch of very old seed from
Sam, is dated from the late 60s to the early 70s.
And he barely got any of them to pop.
If you believe Sam's side of the story, he sold Neville the exact same seed that he sold
everybody else was reproductions that he made in in Amsterdam after he landed there.
And he claims that Neville never got anything special.
There's a lot more to it than that.
The Neville story has never really changed.
The Sam story has certainly changed from the various forums like Overgrow and Cannabis
World to what's the one that came after that?
After Cannabis World and Overgrow, the various forums, Sam is on them.
And I don't think his story has stayed consistent over time.
He's claimed to have given Neville only clones.
He's claimed to have given him old seed, new seed, this, that, whatever.
But regardless of all that, Neville claims he sprouted.
He tried to sprout a bunch.
Most of them failed.
I see, Mag.
There you go.
I see, Mag.
And so after Neville tried to pop a bunch of them, and almost none of them came up.
And he got a girl that he thought was a piece of shit, and he grew it, and he didn't realize
it was any good until after he'd already killed it.
And he ended up with two boys, which everybody knows as A and C. So that's where the story
gets famous, because the vast majority of what people know as Haze and the whole Haze
story comes from those two dads, for lack of a better term.
So everything that Neville commercially sold, NL5 Haze, Silver Haze, all that type of stuff,
that was all Haze C. And he had Haze A. He made a ton of crosses in 88 and 89, which
came with Haze A. And then one of his workers didn't keep a dad and bloomed everything on
his last main seed run.
And so he had a bunch of seed, and he had a bunch of hybrids, but he never sold commercial
stock of it.
And so Sam sold a bunch of his Haze seed.
He used to be able to buy from the Flying Dutchman.
I believe he used to be able to buy it from Positronics, too.
Used to be able to buy Sam's open pollination Haze.
The different thing is that nobody seems to have ever found jack shit out of Sam's Haze
lines.
Not bad.
And the stuff that he gave Neville, that seems to be where all the quality came from.
So, you know, you're talking about two dudes who don't get along, don't see eye to eye,
then didn't like each other.
And they both had very different versions of what happened in the mid 80s in a dope deal
that they had. So it becomes sort of a mission of like, who do you choose to believe and
what part of their story do you choose to believe?
But what's undoubtable is that all the shit that people know about the Piff, the Church,
the Cuban Black Haze, the A5, the C5, Super Silver Haze, Mango, all those different, the
Soma work, all that different stuff.
It all came from hybrids that Neville made.
Right. That's undisputable.
You know, it all came from them.
And so, you know, it.
You know, like like a lot of things in cannabis, people involved aren't the most honest
folk. And no matter what era you're in, you know, we seem to attract some shady hustling
and some lying and some fibbing and some like polishing of your story and all that other
stuff. So. I don't know, you know, we, you know, King Cult of Ours, I tend to believe
Neville's story mostly because.
All this fire came out of Neville's lines and not very much fire came out of Sam's that
you can really you can really ascertain a bunch.
I think Northern Lights Five Haze probably has more elite cuts named after it that still
exists that are 25 to 30 years old than any other line that's ever been made by anybody.
Yeah, it's the goat. It's the fucking goat.
It really it really is.
You know, I mean, they're both on the Atlantic, you know, on the USA side and on the
European side. It seems like from 88 to 95, people found white hot fire in that line.
It's probably the most successful cannabis hybrid of all time.
You know, whether he got lucky, whether he you know, I mean, all that you can you know, but
that F1 was, you know, it's got rare power and people to this day, honestly, the reason
why on the West Coast people don't like Haze is because the Haze they know is Jack or Super
Silver Haze or some of the polyhybrids.
All of the best F1s have been hoarded forever.
They were hoarded in Europe, in America, the Cubans and the Dominicans hoarded the shit out
of their cuts and didn't allow it to get spread out.
And so it's kind of amazing, actually, for as long as it's been out, most of the other elites
have leaked and snuck out.
And a lot of people have gotten a hold of them.
And you really haven't been able to about the other stuff, you know, I mean, when you really
think about it, right, like the A5 and the C5 are in America right now.
People have them. Those those things were found in 88 and 89.
And I don't think they came to America until a couple of years ago.
Right. I mean, they were literally on lockdown for something like 30 years.
You could go to Amsterdam.
I used to you know, I used to be able to smoke them when I went to Amsterdam.
There were a staple in Amsterdam coffee shops.
There are a staple of cannabis breeding.
But it's the thing is, is to be perfectly honest, most of the people that think they know
Haze don't because they never got to smoke the real deal.
Yeah. I mean, that's just that's just really the the truth.
How does Mr. Nice fit into the Haze story?
That's a little bit longer convo.
But the basic story is, man, it's kind of a long story.
The super short version is that Neville got busted during Operation Green Merchant and
ended up in fucking jail.
And Ben and Alan drunkards had money and were willing to buy him out.
But they weren't willing to buy him out unless he gave them his money.
They weren't willing to buy him out unless he gave them unless he sold them his fucking
company. So in order to get his freedom and to get out of the situation he's in, he had to
sell seed bank to Sensi Seeds and he ended up being Sensi Seeds main breeder.
One of that ended up being that Sensi ended up owning most of his genetics.
They trademarked a bunch of his famous names like Super Skunk and other stuff.
And after four or five years, he wasn't really getting along with Ben and Alan drunkards.
And so he left Sensi Seeds and him and Shanti started working together and they bred
together for a few years.
And that that combination breeding led to the Super Silver Haze, the Mango Haze and the
Neville's Haze. Didn't allow Arjun to get any of the seed, any of the cuttings, mom's, dads
or even grow any of the flower.
They provided his coffee shops with the flowers.
But when they worked at Greenhouse, Shanti and Neville never allowed Arjun to get a hold of
any of the cuts or any of the moms or dads.
They provided him with the seeds for sale at Greenhouse and they provided him with the
flower to to sell at Greenhouse.
Right. Does everybody get that?
Hopefully everybody got that.
I can hear it. OK.
So what happened is, is they after after Neville left Sensi, him and Shanti worked
together on the Super Silver Haze, the Mango Haze and the Neville's Haze project.
They each had a part of Greenhouse Seeds and they kept Arjun out of the loop by not
giving him any cuts or any flower.
They just basically gave him flower to sell in the coffee shop.
And then they provided the seeds and the packaging to sell to the seed company.
And then eventually they didn't like the deal with Arjun.
And so Shanti left and took the cuts and went to Switzerland and started Mr.
Nice Seeds. So that's how Mr.
Nice Seeds. And then Matt can confirm this, but Neville sold his seed bank era, 80s
era seed collection to Shanti for a chunk of money when Neville was broke.
And so Shanti has or had at some point a bunch of Neville's breeding work as well as a
bunch of Neville's old seed.
Yes. If that makes sense.
So that's kind of how, you know, there's a lot of people that believe in Shanti.
There's a bunch of people that think he's full of shit, which is pretty common for the
weed industry. But he legitimately worked with Neville and he legitimately had access
to Neville's cuts, Neville's breeding parents and a bunch of old 80s seed from Neville,
for lack of a better way to put it.
Yeah. And I think he's probably the main source for a lot of Neville stuff today that's
more reliable. One of the most reliable sources for Neville's work today.
I would say. Yeah.
And I mean, you know, so I mean, despite his, you know, like but there's the thing is, is
about Shanti is that there's not really a way to cross reference whether he has it or
not. Yeah.
No. Take his word for it.
All of it. Right.
Because we're not in his mom room.
We're not in his dad room.
I would assume he's lost some things.
But what?
It's hard to say. Yeah.
He'd never tell you.
You know, and on top of that, he might not be lying.
You know, he might have it's it's we don't have any evidence one way or the other.
A lot of times what happens with this shit is, you know, people end up believing the
grower they like. Yeah.
Yeah. No, that really is it.
And disbelieving the grower they don't.
You know, so.
Yeah. I hope people can hear me.
I'm not seeing any more comments scrolling at the bottom of the page anymore.
The last thing I see is all heart, no hype.
Go outside, boo.
Oh, wow. Yeah, no, I'm still seeing stuff here.
I can hear you. Can everybody else hear me?
Can they hear me? Are they responding that they can actually hear?
Yeah. Yeah.
You're good. We.
So, yeah, that's kind of the that's the that's the long, short version of Mr.
Nice. He has legitimate.
He has more.
Provenance in access to Neville stuff than almost anybody.
And he may still have Afghan tea.
He might be.
You know, it's it's been, you know, when Matt was plugging the the discord server and all
that, we have endless debates on what's still alive and what's dead.
So, you know.
It's. Hard to say.
Yeah, it is hard to say you want to talk about PIF.
PIF. Yeah.
I think that's probably one of the most questions I get asked most on here.
I mean, it seems like so, you know, the it's kind of shrouded in a little bit of
mystery. But what it seems like is that there was a guy that bought there was a guy
that bought seed from Neville in 1988, NL5 Hayes, and he was grateful.
He was on Grateful Dead tour.
And he found this this phenol that he gave to the student, Florida.
The the original guy overdosed in 1990, sadly, apparently.
And, you know, the PIF was born, for lack of a better term.
It's gotten a bunch of names.
Some people think it smells like frankincense.
That's why the church thing came out.
And it's sort of got it's it's sort of got hype in New York.
And as a result of that, because there was a bunch of money in it, a bunch of other
people bought the exact same seed line from Neville and NL5 Hayes and wanted to find
their own PIF, their own church, their own Heights Hayes, their own block work.
And so that's where seemingly most of the phenols come from.
Almost all the good phenols of NL5 Hayes come from 88 to 95.
Right.
That's that seems like it's Neville has confirmed that sometime in 94, 95, the NL5
mother died at Sensi.
And so after that, the cross was never the same.
People are asking also about Cuban Black Hayes.
I don't know if you want to go over that.
Cuban Black Hayes is it's most likely just another it's just another phenol of NL5
Hayes. If people want to go over it, things that are likely NL5 Hayes are PIF, Heights
Hayes, Cuban Black Hayes, the dog shit.
You know, all those things are NL5 Hayes.
And in Europe, A5, C5, there's multiple copies of each one.
C5, you know, that's Neville's notation.
It meant that it was Hayes C crossed to NL5 Hayes.
A5 means it was the A dad crossed to NL5 Hayes, NL5.
So there's a bunch of F1 hybrids that are famous that float around Europe.
Some of them have crept over here in the last few years.
I saw people talk about, you know, one of the one of the old guys that used to work
for Neville in the 90s.
Dog shit, dog bud, no, they're not the same thing.
No, actually, dog shit is a sad thing because it it got named dog shit in Oregon.
But before it was in Oregon, it was from Minneapolis, Minnesota.
And its name was Electric Boogaloo.
Much better name, which is one of the coolest names in cannabis, in my opinion.
But for whatever reason, it got changed.
But it is also old, early 90s NL5 Hayes, you know, of some kind.
No bud is an old Afghan from Florida.
It used to be called Skunk Five in Florida.
I actually know the people that drove it from Florida to Oregon where it got renamed Snow Bud.
Like a lot of things back then, if you were in Eugene, Oregon, you called it the Eugene Snow Bud.
Some people called it Oregon Snow Bud.
People called it Humboldt Snow Bud.
Our buddy CSI has had it for 20 plus years, probably longer.
He probably got it in the late 90s, I think.
He's made a lot of hybrids with it.
It's an old, I don't know, I mean, it could be NL5 Skunk One.
It could be any, the earliest name we can find on it is Skunk Five.
And it got renamed Snow in Oregon.
And it was a very frosty, low terp, old Afghan.
Kind of like the white, but better, in my opinion.
Yeah.
You know?
It had low flavor, but there was some times when it tasted amazing.
Every once in a while, you'd hit it out of a park and it would have really deep, amazing flavor.
A lot of times, though, it was mild, where like the white, I don't think anyone's ever gotten it to taste good.
It's kind of just like a, you know, it's kind of just like a mild, potent Afghan.
Yeah.
Not everything tastes good.
Not everything's terpy.
Want more Breeder Syndicate?
Be sure to check out our Patreon by going to Google and searching Breeder Syndicate Patreon.
We have a secret Discord where we are available at most times and interact daily.
There are a lot of perks to be had there, so check it out.
Need seeds?
Check out RiotSeeds.com where you can get our seeds and our reversal spray for making your own feminized seeds.
