Ready, go!
Welcome to Breeder Syndicate.
What's up everyone? Welcome to Breeder Syndicate. I'm here with our other host, NotSoDog, and welcome.
Today we're going to take you through a little bit of the 90s
subculture. Both me and NotSo have majorly different experiences in the 90s. We were in two different parts of
the
state, and in his case in the country.
And we were at different ages. So I think this is gonna be a good one to rattle off about.
Yeah, I mean we're also gonna answer some questions and then you know since we just dropped that
Correll interview a few days ago,
if people have questions or
clarification that they want about a bunch of the stuff, we'll spend some time chatting about that as well.
So, you know, it's kind of gonna be a little bit of a wide-ranging discussion, you know.
And we'll just kind of freeform it from there. Yep. Sounds good. Okay, let's start off with your 90s experience.
Yeah, so I mean 90s experiences, you know, we talked about in some previous episodes.
We did a bunch of stuff on the 80s and the history.
You know, Matt and I are not that old frankly, so
don't have any weed growing experience from the 70s or the mid 80s.
But 90s is where both of us start to come into the picture and both of us start to have actual real
experiences of what was there, what was available.
Obviously Matt originates from the West Coast. I
originate from the Midwest. So very different
experiences going on that and
you know other places talk about what was your first high like and all that.
I don't think we need to spend very much time on that because it's kind of boring to be perfectly honest.
Yeah, but I will say that you know,
so I'm a little older than Matt.
So I'm a little older than Matt and when I first started smoking weed in the in the very early 90s,
you know, there was no internet.
There was no forums.
Like I said in previous talks, you know, there was some books. There was high times.
I didn't realize at the time how inaccurate a lot of stuff was in high times.
Nobody did. I read it as gospel. Now I could go back and read a bunch of stuff and be like, oh my god.
I hope nobody takes that advice. But back then, I mean I was totally ignorant. So
for me growing up in Chicago,
there was essentially two kinds of cannabis. There was brown Mexican and green Mexican.
That was predominantly that's what there was. There was no other kind of import that I ever saw.
Very occasionally there was some hashish a little bit.
But brown and green dominated it. It was seeded, you know.
The green Mexican tended to be a little bit nicer.
It was compressed. The best stuff was not that compressed and didn't have that many seeds. We used to call that 30-60 weed
because it was $30 an eighth and it was $60 a quarter.
Yeah, the brown Mexican was more 20-40 weed. That was more 20 an eighth, 40 a quarter.
And the brown Mexican could have enormously different levels of compression to it.
And what I mean by compression is how much they squished it to get it across the border.
Yes, so it was squished with stems, seeds, buds, everything else. You had to fluff it. You had to break it up.
You know, and that's kind of how I started.
I was smoking brown and green Mexican. Yeah, that's what we had access to.
There were no glass pipes unless you went on dead tour and saw Bob's Nodgrass.
The type of pipes that you could get were stone, clay,
metal.
The bongs were essentially plastic.
And in Illinois, in Chicago, there was no, you couldn't even buy that in the state.
There wasn't a single head shop in the entire state.
There was a couple of
shady gas stations where you could get some very cheap papers that they would claim were for rolling raw tobacco.
But even those places would get hassled by the cops.
So for me,
you know, I had to drive to Kenosha, Wisconsin.
I had to drive a good two, two and a half hours away to get to a head shop.
Yeah, even access to be able to buy any of these things and then we had to smuggle them back in to our spot.
There was no easy access to anything.
So,
you know, I saw a dam and we were paying off the ass for brickweed.
Yeah, I mean, the
there was no, the amount of demand, obviously Chicago is one of the big cities in America.
It's a metropolis. It's got an enormous amount of people.
You know, I,
there wasn't a bunch of California weed like there is today flooding the country.
It just didn't, at least maybe there was for certain circles, but my teenage ass, no.
Yeah, I didn't know anybody. And so
the funny thing about the actual spot, someone said in Kenosha,
the actual spot in Kenosha was called Supreme Video and what it actually was was a huge porn shop
that you had to go through and in order to get to the head shop portion of the porn shop, you had to walk through a
ginormous porn, you know, I mean literally, you know how they have that like the glass, the glass like push beads and stuff.
Oh, yeah. They had those, they had those but dildos. Yeah.
So you literally had to like walk through like a wall of... You never wanted to run backwards through it naked.
I'll tell you. No, I, you know, generally speaking, I didn't get naked in public, but
but you know, you would go there and there would be all kinds of metal pipes, stone pipes, a few clay pipes,
graphics. I mean, that was really all there was.
You know,
you know, getting clubs and all these high-end papers that you have right now.
They had, you know, the J-O-B's, the Ritz, like they had all the basic, there was no raw,
there was no, the papers were pretty much cigarette papers back then.
But yeah, I mean it was literally like Supreme Video.
It was a huge porn shop with a head shop behind it that you had to walk through to get to it.
And it was two and a half hours away.
Yeah. So even, even access to that kind of stuff was pretty funny in that regard. Yeah, zigzags
were, you know, that was, that was high-end, you know. Yeah. I mean even back then,
this is totally different subject or whatever, but like the high-end beer back then was like Heineken.
Yeah. There was probably like three micro breweries or four micro breweries in the whole country.
So even what we considered high-grade of that was pretty midsy.
You know, in that regard. And then,
you know, I mean the level of, the level of knowledge that gets spread around right now
is pretty amazing. Back then, it was like, it was a lot of rumor. It was a lot of innuendo.
It was a lot of stuff you learn from some older smokers maybe.
You know, I made Matt, when we were planning this episode, I made Matt laugh because he had never heard of a resin chamber.
Yeah, that was news to me.
So anybody that doesn't know what a resin chamber is, is if you got like a metal pipe
and the pipe had the smoking part and then it bent and had the long piece that you puff off of,
they would have a fat chamber that unscrewed and you would put your nicest Mexican weed in that chamber,
your nicest bud of the eighth or quarter you bought, and you would smoke that because you would be getting free THC all over your bud.
And then you would smoke that bud last.
Yeah, so essentially, we skipped that process and went ahead and just scraped the resin
and just didn't, didn't smoke any buds inside that little chamber. It was always there.
I didn't know that people put shit in it.
No, it was literally called, it was literally called the resin chamber.
And so I would ruin the nicest bud I had that I could fit in there, every single bag I bought,
because I thought that, uh, that was the way, that was, that was the older, the older cats.
That's what they told me to do. And that made sense.
And yeah, you did, you know, so I ruined weed.
OG Moonrocks, fool. OG Moonrocks.
I was also telling them a story about how, you know, we would get all the, you know, the, the pipes,
not the pipes, the bongs, the water pipes that we would get.
You had to call them water pipes back then, or they would throw your ass out of the store immediately.
And they would have big signs that say, we only sell water pipes.
Because water pipes could be used for tobacco and thus weren't illegal.
Where bongs were a specific nomenclature for marijuana and that could get a shop shut down.
So cops would come in and ask if I could buy a bong just to see if the, the shop was stupid enough to say something
and then they'd shut it down.
So, you know, yeah, I mean, I smoked out, we made pipes out of tinfoil using pens to form the tinfoil.
I smoked out of apples. I smoked out of, uh, you know, cans.
My dad still tells everyone that he's the greatest rapper.
Every, every, every nasty, every nasty thing you would just laugh at now.
But literally the very first time I saw anybody smoke, like using glass pipes,
was there was this guy, he's considered the grandfather of modern glass pipes.
His name was Bob Snodgrass.
And he was a fixture on Dead Tour.
And he would blow pipes out of the back of his van and sell you little top hats.
He, you know, he was the coolest thing ever.
But you had to literally go to a dead show.
You know, and so, yeah, we would even acquiring the method to smoke fucking weed was not very simple.
You know, thank God I didn't smoke out of too much tinfoil.
My brain thanked me.
But yes, screens, cleaning your screens, ripping your screen out, holding it with a pair of needle nose
and then like burning the resin off the screen so you could reuse it with your lighter.
You know, all that type of stuff.
That was like cutting edge technology.
I remember, yeah, he missed that road clips.
Of course, we had one of those too.
I remember the very first time somebody told me that you could clean up a bong with alcohol and salt.
So I had a dirty graphics plastic bong and I got like 99% alcohol and I got some salt.
I mixed them up and I poured it in the thing and I watched the whole bong just crack all the way up slowly.
It just ruined my bong because I didn't realize that that's what would happen because plastic is porous, you know.
So there was so much resin that it like inhibited the glass that when it started melting the resin,
it started structurally fucking with the pipe and I ruined my bong and I was like, oh, you know,
I had to like leave the state to go get another one.
That's all I had.
You know, I was like, oh, there goes the bong.
Yeah.
So, you know, now head shops are easy.
The internet exists.
Ordering shit's easy.
All that, you know, we used to, I used to take a tray, right?
And you take your weed up here on the tray and you angle it between your chest and your knees
and you break up all of your Mexican at the top.
And then all the seeds would roll down the tray and collect in the bottom lip.
And you had to de-seed and de-stem the entire thing just to get smokable weed.
Yeah.
You know, so, yeah, the, I mean, I can't, there was another porn store in Kenosha that also sold pipes.
The only one that I remember is Supreme Video.
It's still there.
I haven't been there in decades, but it still exists.
I don't know what it does now, but it's certainly, it's certainly, that's how hard it was.
You know, I mean, even the big city like Chicago, everything was banned.
Everything was illegal.
You had to go find it.
We used to use postal scales.
That was the only kind of scale you could buy.
Fuck getting a digital scale.
Yeah.
There was no digital scale available.
There was nowhere that sold it.
There was nowhere to find it.
So you would have the little postal scale that you would, the clip, and you'd put your little,
everybody knew that like a baggie, a sandwich baggie was one gram and a Ziploc was three and a half grams.
And you'd have to hold it up, you know, and the buyer and the seller would make sure,
because depending on the level of compression, sometimes you'd buy brick weed and like an eighth would be like that.
And someone would be like, there's no way that weighs right.
It can't weigh right.
You know?
And you'd have to be like, oh, there's the little hanging scale.
Look, there you go.
You know?
No, it actually weighs.
Yeah.
And, you know, and that was, you know, like a lot of people, triple beams, triple beams existed, but they were hard to get.
The older guys had triple beams, you know, and with the, you know, the thing and you move it along, do the whole big.
That was the high end.
If you could get a triple beam and you had the money to grab that, then you're, then you're really, then you're really doing it.
But postal scales, honestly, as a teenager, that's what everybody was, they were hideable.
They were small.
Exactly.
You couldn't hide a triple beam.
You know, postal scales were like the standard when I was young.
Just straight up.
And so, you know, rather than talking about like your first highs or whatever, that was the first state of weed.
That was weed normalcy.
I'll shut up for a minute.
Matt can throw in.
He probably has a little bit better access because Southern California, he probably got a little bit nicer green bud than I do.
He's shaking his head.
No.
You know, like my, my first experience, like as it, as someone that went and actively bought pot, I'm not talking about watering for dad or any of that bullshit.
Right.
Because I had no interest in any of that when I was young age.
So when I first got into actually actively like going, trying to find weed, the first stuff I saw was, you know, us high school fucking smoking out of fucking cans.
You know, we had just gotten into high school.
I was 13 when I entered high school.
And that was when we first started buying from, you know, the seniors that had fucking shitty ass mets.
But this was all we knew.
So we grabbed it.
And I remember the first time is not breaking it up at all, just throwing it on a can and trying to burn it.
You know, no one really taught us any of that kind of stuff, like how to properly break it up or do any of that shit.
But we saw a lot of compressed brick coming through.
And traditionally, most even over all the years, the ones that I remember the most had this minty, almost chocolate smell.
And I'm not talking like heavy turps like, oh, this is it just had like very low smells of that.
Or we had what we called the pretend to go, which was the uncompressed.
And usually not always, but usually it would be more red or hued.
It would be full colas.
And in our area, we were doing like 60 an ounce, 250 for a P of the the max.
But at the same time, the uncompressed was usually 250 to 300 or 60 to 70 an ounce.
So it wasn't a big difference in the uncompressed versus the compressed.
So for me, I'll just throw a little add to there.
Since I'm from the Midwest, we can get a little bit historical here for a second.
Obviously, they they made marijuana illegal in 19 and illegal in 1937.
And then they had a problem in 1940 and that we started World War Two.
And they needed so many supplies for clothing, for sales, for ropes, for canvas, army bags, all this.
And so they had this program called Hemp for Victory.
Right.
And in Hemp for Victory, they basically paid a bunch of farmers to grow millions of acres of cannabis hemp.
Not cannabis, not drug cultivars, but hemp for fiber in Illinois, Kansas, Indiana, a bunch of Midwestern states.
Right. So obviously, if you're growing millions of acres of seeded cannabis, there's going to be a bunch of wild seed.
So that's where in the Midwest, that's where the term ditchweed comes from.
It was wild populations of hemp because they made hemp illegal again right after we won the war.
So for 40, from 40 to 45, they just grew just millions of acres of hemp in the Midwest.
And then for decades after that, they paid the government, the DEA to eradicate it.
Yeah.
Most people don't know this, but like 90 percent of the DEA's budget to eradicate cannabis was just cutting down hemp fields in the Midwest that grew wild.
But the way the government works, you know, the way the government works is they just take the money and use the money.
Right. So, so ditchweed for us, which we call pertendica, was I will freely admit that multiple times I bought what I thought were gorgeous looking ounces of premium kind bud.
Green, juicy, frosty, everything else and paid 350, 400 bucks an ounce.
And then you start smoking it.
And I, at that point in my life, I'd never even heard the word CBD.
I didn't know it existed.
I didn't even know what hemp was really.
And I wouldn't get high.
And then we do this experiment where we'd smoke some green Mexican and we get way higher.
And so we called it pertendica because some entrepreneurs, scammers would go out there and they'd harvest some wild hemp that looked gorgeous.
They'd dry it and they'd sell it to dumb fucks that were teenagers that didn't know any better for a dollar thinking they were getting the juiciest like seven bud ounce.
Shit looked good.
It did look good.
It was so good.
And so that's what we called pertendica.
Yeah.
Because when you got cheated out of your money and you bought weed that didn't work.
Yeah.
And I had no idea at the time why it didn't work.
Now I know it was CBD.
Yeah.
You know, I was literally buying gorgeous hemp.
But I didn't know.
You know?
Yeah.
So, yeah.
I mean, people are saying ditchweed.
Ditchweed, that's what you call it.
Indiana, Illinois, there's still ditchweed.
Kansas, I'm sure there's still ditchweed.
It grows wild populations.
It seeds itself.
They eradicate it.
It grows on the edges of farms.
It grows on the edges of forests.
It grows in ditches.
Obviously, it rains a lot in the Midwest in summer.
So, it doesn't need very much care by humans at all to propagate itself.
Nebraska certainly has a bunch.
All those places where they farm.
You know, you farm millions of acres of seeded weed.
There's millions and millions of seeds that hit the ground.
Yeah.
And it establishes a wild population, essentially.
So, you know.
Basically, you know, I've talked a little bit about this before.
But, like, in the 90s, when I first got into Kind Bud, the two most reliable places for me to find Kind Bud was Holland and a Grateful Dead show.
Other than that, it was incredibly hard to come by.
The supply of it was terribly limited.
The demand for it was super high.
And, you know.
So, that's kind of how it was.
Like, when I said 20-40 for brown weed and 30-60 for green weed, anything better than Mexican, no matter how crappy, grown, was 50-100.
Yeah.
It didn't matter.
I mean, I have some stories of some really messed up, very poorly grown Kind Bud.
But, it didn't matter.
It was 50-60, 70-8.
And if you didn't want it, somebody else would hop in.
So, figure it out.
Yeah.
You know, I don't know what it was like and where you're from, Matt.
But, that was my experience getting into cannabis.
That was what was around.
Yeah.
We didn't really start seeing really good shit, at least in our circle, until my dad went to prison.
He was always in and out.
So, he wasn't really, like, down to hook up his Kinects because he just wasn't there.
And he was always getting out and getting new Kinects.
My best friend, his name was Josh, moved back from Alaska.
He got sent away to Alaska for some reason by his mom in high school.
He did something bad or got in a car wreck, drunk, or something crazy.
But, he got shipped off to Alaska and he comes back and he's like, check this shit out.
He opens a saxophone case.
He's got a bong in there.
And this is, like, one of the first times I've seen a glass bong, a really nice glass bong, you know.
And he breaks out this weed and it smells fucking crazy.
I'd never really seen weed like that.
And he's like, yeah, bro.
He's like, let me tell you about this most potent strain on Earth.
It's called Matanuska Valley Thunderfuck, bro.
And I didn't know about name strains at that point, really.
It wasn't, like, it was all a big mystery to me.
And he busts out some white, what he called white rhino and some white widow, you know.
That was our first real experience in our circle with those kind of strains.
But, yeah, Bakersfield is traditionally hardcore mecky.
Even now, you're not getting real quality shit.
Like, people that go to collectives, you're just not seeing quality shit in Bakersfield.
It's not a connoisseur market.
It's very much driven by low price in Bakersfield.
So, I mean, that's the personal experience or whatever.
We don't need to, like, harp too, too long on what our own personal experiences are.
The main reason to talk about it was just to give people a sense of when you get into weed.
You know, honestly, I'm not even sure I would have tried to start growing as soon as I did
if I had access to a variety of kinds of kind bud.
That's what we called it, kind bud or denk.
Those were the kind of the two words that we used for it commonly.
And I'll add one more piece to it.
So, when I actually did meet some crews that had weed.
So, this is the funny part, right?
So, let's say that you're like three people away from a grower
and this grower is growing like three or four or five pounds or something, right?
The guy who bought all the stuff that the guy wasn't going to keep for personal,
let's say the guy grew five pounds and he sold four.
The dude that would buy the four pounds would take the four pounds
and he would dump them out on the table and whatever he was going to keep,
he would pick, nug by nug, the nicest looking shit out of the whole thing.
Because every bit of it sold.
So, I might have only been like three people away from the grower
and every bud I got in the half ounces I was buying was that big.
Like there was no like, everybody could just skim.
Every person that got it, they just skim the amount they were keeping.
Every nice bud because everything would work.
It didn't matter, which is ridiculous today that like you could essentially sell smalls
at a premium.
But, you know, the first time I heard the word dank was going to dead shows.
That was the kind of the kind bud or dank was the way that you describe shit
that wasn't Mexican.
At least in my little circles.
Yeah, I remember my first experience with it was my friend's Adam.
My friend Adam's older brother, Dave, he came home wearing a shirt
that said dank on it.
And he's like, I was like, what does that mean?
He's like, it means it's not fucking swag, bro.
That was my first experience.
And I was like, what the fuck is swag?
Yeah, what is swag?
And so, I mean, there was this thing where, I mean, being frank with people,
like when you first get kind bud, like you didn't even know it existed.
And then you have a situation where you already like weed.
You're into smoking brown weed.
You're into smoking the green weed.
You like weed.
You like getting high.
It does all the different things to you.
And then you get some kind bud and like you didn't even realize
that that grade existed.
Yeah.
There wasn't any seeds, you know?
Yeah, it's a truth.
All the first kind bud I saw too was indoor.
Coming from the Midwest, there was no outdoor.
Yeah.
Yeah, dirt weed, swag, you know, you cut it with sometimes with the bricks.
You'd cut it with a bread knife.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Easy.
You'd saw it, you know?
You'd go at it with a serrated knife.
Yeah, you'd sit there and saw it and break it up and fluff it
and try to figure it out and all that stuff.
And so, you know, I mean, my friends and I, like we could go to dead shows
and we could get weed, you know?
I mean, that was one of the, it wasn't the primary reason that we went.
You know, I mean, it's funny.
I didn't have anything.
My parents, like my parents weren't involved in it or anything like that.
I guess you could say I'm first gen as far as like my family getting involved.
But, you know, when I first went to a dead show, my buddy and I were
trying to figure out where we could like sit down and hide and smoke
some weed where none of the adults were going to rat us out.
Oh, yeah.
Because back then it was like, you know, 15 or something.
You couldn't let an adult see you smoking weed.
You'd get busted.
Yeah, my grandma and mom were not fucking cool at all with it.
And it goes back to the seeds.
I used to get popped every time and I never figured out how my grandma
always popped me when I was smoking.
She would fucking always catch me.
And later on, she told me it was because when I would smoke bowls
in my room, the seeds would get hot and pop out and burned holes
in the carpet.
So every time there was new holes in the carpet, she knew I was
in there fucking smoking.
Oh, man, we definitely we definitely got taught young to remove seeds.
It's certainly, certainly, you know, certainly you don't always
do it the correct way.
You miss one, especially with a compressed butt.
Yeah.
And then on top of that, there's like this paper thin seed shell.
Yes.
Not the hard shell, but there's like a kind of a papery like on a
garlic, you know, clove or something.
And that's usually what stripes are on that thin paper sleeve.
Yeah, you'd miss that.
And then and then that would taste terrible.
If you had that in your bowl, you'd be like, oh, you know.
And so anyway, I mean, yeah, my actually my first growing was
flicking seeds out my window, you know, getting.
Yeah, I've been some stuff so I could go on a walk and smoke
some weed and then I'd be like mowing my out, you know, my lawn
for spring in the backyard.
They'd be like, oh, you know, and I would just run right over
with the mower because I was like, I didn't even think that
that would happen at Ridgeview at Ridgeview, our high school.
Anybody who went there between 94 and 99 knew about the weed
patch we had growing across the street.
And it pretty much everybody was in on taking care of these
plants as long as we could do it, you know, until the narcs came
out and figured it out.
Yeah.
So I mean, like for, you know, the so that's that's just kind
of to set the tone of like that's kind of what the 90s was
like, you know, in the in the early and mid 90s, there was
basically Mexican.
There wasn't very good access.
The education sucked, you know, and you know, we that's what
started my trips to Amsterdam was was I was like, I they have
good weed over there and I don't.
Yeah, you know, and then, you know, it was like you would
meet people on dead tour that could give you weed because
lots of people would bring pounds to dead tour and sell
eighths and quarters and ounces just to like, you know, do
their two three week run worth of shows, you know, I mean,
that's essentially how, you know, I mean, that's what Peebud
and Joe Brand were doing when when Chemdog bought his sacks.
They were just, you know, people would bring good weed to
dead shows and hustle it, you know, yeah, and you know, maybe
that maybe that we could talk about that a little bit because
now it's like it's pretty widely spread throughout different
parts of society and there's different.
There's certainly lots of different types of people growing
weed and that probably always was the case, but in the 90s,
it was a hippie based group.
Sure.
Like the people that were most in tune with weed, the people
that were most in tune with getting weed and bringing weed
that, you know, dead shows were probably one of the greatest
open-air weed markets that's ever existed in America because
people from all walks of life, all parts of the country, New
York, Florida, California, wherever they would buy or bring
their weed on dead tour and that's how they would fund their
party, their food, their hotels, their traveling, their
tickets, their whatever, you know, most people that went to
dead shows, not everyone, but most people went to dead shows,
smoke weed.
So it was really easy to sell weed and get by and it wasn't
nearly as sketchy as some of the other substances and stuff
that people hustle.
Weed was a little mellower, you know, so yeah, lots of people
did it and you know, there's some there's some pretty famous
stuff that used to get sold there.
We could chat about that for a second.
My buddy who, you know, we talked about him before, I call
him Staten Island, you know, but he, you know, he's about seven
years older than me and so he and Skunk VA used to go to a
bunch of dead shows together with other people and you know,
they, his favorite weed on dead tour was Big Sir Holy and he
said you could buy Big Sir Holy Skunk and you could buy Big Sir
Holy Haze and he said, you know, a lot of people had like
fanny packs back then of all things, but he said that like
it was so distinctive of an aroma that not only could you
tell somebody had dank weed in their fanny pack, you could
tell that they were holding on to the Big Sir Holy.
Yeah.
And so out of everything that he had back then, everything he
had access to, that stuff, whoever was doing it was bringing
it, you know, chunks of it regularly to dead tour.
And so, you know, the stuff that we talked about, the Super
Skunk, the MSS, some people called that the, you know, the
Skunk Six on tour.
There was Skunk on tour.
There was Northern Lights on tour, you know, and a lot of
people that went to dead shows grew weed or sold weed or knew
people that grew weed.
So my education about weed was basically I could go to dead
shows, you know, I could learn that in retrospect, a lot of
ignorance around my area, but I could go to dead shows and I
could learn from some old timers or I could go to Amsterdam.
Sure.
You know, and I could learn from cats over there.
You know, I mean, I met a guy, some people call him Mr.
Haze.
I met a guy named Steve in Amsterdam.
I met Simon from Sirius, who was super nice to me.
I met some other folks just like anywhere else.
You know, you go to some coffee shops, you know, coffee shops
are kind of like dispensaries.
They don't really have the kind all that often.
They have some decent stuff.
Some of them have some really nice stuff.
But then when you get started getting into like the collector
circles and you make some acquaintances and friends, you
know, that kind of stuff, you start meeting and getting some
better weed.
You know, so, you know, yeah, there was, you know, yeah,
there it's just true.
It's dead shows were dead shows were the best place for
because you got to realize, too, without the Internet, without
forums, without trading, without any of that, with everything
being illegal everywhere and everything being super
clandestine, you know, little circles might get this butter
that bud in their local area, but not that much.
But, you know, you know, the modern big sur stuff, I can tell
you that it's not pure.
I don't know exactly the mix, but I can say that some of the
big stir stuff that's out there, Staten Island has confirmed
it's smell very similar to we went over to Amsterdam in the
90s and we smelled the sage, the actual like famous cutting
of the sage.
And it was like, you know, it was like, you know, it was
the actual like famous cutting of sage.
They ran over there and he confirmed that it did smell like
the big sir.
So one of the versions of the big sir that he used to get.
So I can't say, you know, I'm there's a difference between
our buddy Bodhi has a cut that he uses.
CSI has a cut that's a little terpenelein based.
You know, there's some people in Colorado and other areas that
has that has, you know, the the atom cut of sage.
That's not really my wheelhouse.
I can't say which ones are more legit than others, you know,
but you know, I'm sure it exists out there in various forms,
you know, so that was, you know, that was the first place I
saw blueberry was on dead tour.
It was the first place I saw Northern Lights.
That was the first place I saw skunk.
That was the first place I saw lots of different things.
So Matt wasn't really into dead shows.
So he doesn't really share that experience.
But you know, I do.
I will say I have I mean back then we were we were punk rockers
and in our scene, it wasn't a weed scene.
It was a heroin scene.
It was a meth scene and that was it killed everyone.
We didn't have a big weed scene.
And I didn't really have the respect for the dead or the dead
scene for that matter during those times because they were
just long hairs to us, you know, but as I've gotten older and
I'm more passionate about about cannabis.
I've realized how much how much really went on in our scene
and revolved around the dead shows and as far as US cannabis
making it from point A to point B.
It's such a major major part of our history and it's in it.
It was a serious loss not to really open my eyes to that.
Yeah.
I mean, it's one of those things where it's like it was kind of
by default, you know, that was one of the I mean some of the
things, you know, sometimes people ask me, you know, how did
you get access to all these famous strains, you know?
Yeah, and in honesty like when I got when I got a bunch of them,
they weren't famous at all.
It was years before any of them would become famous.
So it wasn't like I got anything that I was like, oh my God,
this is this, you know, it was just this is weed, you know, but
hippies and dead and people that attended dead shows a bunch.
They traded amongst each other.
And I mean, honestly when I moved out to Mendocino, it was
because I had friends from dead tour that lived outside of
you kind of and I had an in I had I had a person that knew
people I had a person that could get me situated.
I could have me, you know, I can get situated with for lack of
a better term.
Now, there's all kinds of people involved in weed and it's
grown much beyond it.
But in the 90s, I don't think there was any social group that
had more access for more different kinds of stuff than
than hippies.
Yeah, because being on dead tour, you'd have friends from
Miami and upstate New York and Montana and Texas and Florida
and Alaska and everywhere.
I mean, they would just you would gather there was spring
summer and fall tour.
You're traveling with people.
You're partying with people.
You're smoking weed.
You're trading stories.
So that was the way that things blended for lack of a better
term.
It was sort of the first forums.
The proto forum.
Yeah, it was dead shows.
It was where like-minded people could gather, you know, and
you know, so, you know, I know, you know, they say that there's
people that have been looking at stuff.
People are saying the cut didn't come from Adam.
I know it didn't come from Adam.
His partner is actually who brought it to Europe.
I believe they brought it in seed form.
It was called the Big Sir Holy because supposedly it was grown
in the back of a monastery.
So it was the holy weed.
By Perry the monk, fool.
Yeah.
So, you know, I mean, I don't really have any like specific
ties to that except for, you know, except for like one of my
old friends.
It was kind of his he would tell these stories of it, you know,
I used a few different Big Sir Holy lines.
I had one that came from Indian guy or and it wasn't his creation
or anything Indian guy.
He was he got a lot of seeds from people and he would distribute
them.
So we didn't really know the sourcing on a lot of this stuff
from him, but it came through him and it was a pink pistole
version that was supposedly the Zee Huat Tanejo purple, which
is in supposedly in Big Sir Holy weed.
A lot of people refer to it as Zacatecas purple because Zacatecas
is easier to pronounce than Zee Huat Tanejo.
But that's what is also the Danbo version, which I believe is
Big Sir Holy weed and reefer man's version and Bodhi had a
version.
The one thing that I noticed runs in common with a lot of these
lines was the tropinoline.
And since I'm not from that area, I don't know if that is a
common trait with the original Big Sir Holy, but that is what
ran in between all of these.
Yeah, I'm not I can't I'd have to I know for sure that and I
and I I honestly don't remember but we did, you know, Mr.
Staten Island myself got some sacks from the Adam and the THC
crew in the midnight in that era and he did say that it smelled
like that.
I don't have a strong memory of what it smelled like so I can't
comment.
Certainly the one that certainly the one that you know, certainly
the one that CSI uses is a bit tropinoline.
Yeah based I can say that for sure because I've I've up that
in recent years and such and have some experience with that
one, but I don't think I've ever personally smoked any of Bodhi's
pure.
I certainly have smoked some hybrids, but I don't have a
memory of Bodhi's either be honest, you know, that's what's
funny too is like, you know, the other thing that people should
know is like, you know, CSI and Bodhi are both reasonably good
friends of ours.
You'd classify it as but a lot of breeders and stuff.
They they use their strains to breed and so some of the
collection I might have known you forever and you might but
that doesn't mean that you're producing smokable weed of all
of your pure lines all the time where your friends can have
sacks of them either a lot of the times the stuff you're
trying is hybrids or s1's or this or that or whatever.
It's not a pure line.
It's a pure line.
It's or s1's or this or that or whatever else a lot of these
guys aren't growing a bunch of pure, you know females to smoke.
Yeah, they're using them in breeding work.
Yeah, right?
Well, it goes back to that whole statement of some plants are
growers and some plants are breeders and sometimes they that's
not mutually exclusive, you know, sometimes it may so maybe
this would be a good time.
This is something that Matt and I chatted about that.
I think is kind of it's kind of cool, but we can throw this
in there.
So when we were talking to the the the on the Corral interview,
one of the cool things was to me was hearing, you know, how
they came up with the nickname Victor barn and how they came
up with Beatrix choice.
Victor barn was like the code name that the Royal put on his
bank account to get the get the kickback skim that he wasn't
going to be traced to him.
Yeah, and Beatrix was the Queen and you know, and that kind of
Yeah, and that kind of that kind of ties in to like cannabis
for a long time has always had like we've had this we've had
this nickname game.
We're kind of subversive in that regard.
And so yeah, a lot of nicknames about pop culture, you know,
and stuff like that and we use we give various nicknames to
read right a little crew gets it and it becomes, you know, you
throw a nickname on it.
For instance, I'll give you a couple examples.
The legend of the puck is that the guy that everybody got it
from, you know, he used to carry it around in a in a hockey
puck case.
It looked like the some people might remember bubble tape that
bubble gum.
Yes, it looks about that size.
It literally is a case that holds a puck, you know, and and
so they called it the puck because it came out of the case.
Yeah, you know, you know, we I have the dog shit but in many
Apple is it was called electric boogaloo, you know, the snow
bud was called skunk 5 in Florida, you know, chem dog has
been called chem dog.
We called it just straight dog for years.
Then it got called skunk BA.
Then it got called chem 91.
And so these certain strains have names.
And so we've had a lot of people that have been called
skunk.
I've been called skunk.
I've been called skunk.
I've been called skunk.
I've been called skunk.
I've been called skunk.
These certain strains have names and a lot of them are funny and
a lot of them tie into various things, you know, and stuff like
that.
But for Matt and I and others, it makes it a real bitch because
when you're trying to find out like is this nl5 by skunk one?
Yeah, they didn't keep the real name that they got.
They didn't keep the lineage.
There's a nickname.
And so we put a lot of time and energy and research into finding
out like what the real names are.
One second.
Before you get there, we do have the top voted question is in a
previous episode, you guys spoke about nl2 possibly being renamed
to Hindu Kush when Sensei acquired Neville Scott.
You want to go ahead and talk about that part?
Sure.
So there's a couple things there that we could talk about.
For one, real quick, just Hindu Kush is a region.
And that Sam skunk man, Dave Watson, he brought a Hindu Kush
that was not related over to Amsterdam as well at some point.
And lots of things have been called Hindu Kush.
But in specific, this the Sensei thing, if you look back in
Neville's catalog, basically every time he talks about nl2,
he were in every description from the 86 catalog on, he calls
it a Hindu Kush phenotype.
Yeah.
Right.
He keeps describing it as a Hindu Kush.
There were things that he called what he called skunk Kush was
nl2 by skunk one.
He kept every basically every reference you can find to nl2
in any of the seed bank catalogs.
He calls Hindu Kush.
And then when Sensei took over, they renamed a number of his
things.
And I spoke about this before, but they renamed it nl2.
And one of the clues was they also sold skunk Kush, and they
called it our best Hindu Kush phenotype crossed with skunk
one.
Yeah.
But you look in Neville's catalog and skunk Kush is nl2 by
this.
And so Sensei just changed every reference to nl2 to Hindu
Kush.
Yeah.
Right.
And so they even use, if you look in the verbiage of Neville's
description of nl2 in his 88, 89 and 90 catalog, they even use
similar words, same words and similar verbiage and similar
sentences.
Neville had some very long winded descriptions of his weed
paragraphs like that.
Sensei would shrink them down to two or three sentences.
But it's pretty clear we've documented in a variety of ways
if you bought Hindu Kush from Sensei Seeds, it was nl2 F3 that
was sold by Neville the last three years of the seed bank catalog
and everything that they had that said nl2, nl2 just disappears
off the face of the earth.
With the exception that Dutch Passion released an nl2 Pheno
that they called Oasis.
So one of the things that makes it tough is that there's so many
nicknames given to weed that you try to trace back what it was.
And like we talked about before, most of the stuff that was
coming was either from SSSC or the seed bank or Sensei because
that was the only games that were selling international seed.
So a lot of their genetics are absolutely laced through
our scene.
But they go by different names.
And then how do you piece together on, for instance, I'll give
you an example.
So I've always thought that the dog shit or I like to call it
the electric boogaloo because I think electric boogaloo is one
of the all-time coolest names in cannabis.
And so changing it to dog shit definitely today in modern
cannabis where everything has to be candy and evoke images
and be deserty.
There's zero chance that anybody would name anything dog.
It would be about as much chance of dog shit being a name as
like filthy sweat sock.
It just wouldn't come about.
But we've always felt that it was in an nl5 haze phenotype.
Yeah, cat piss would be very unlikely.
And if you not that and Matt and I have issues with silos,
but if you go and you look at silos, okay, some of the things
that that dog shit is supposedly fairly closely related to
is European nl5 haze phenotypes that have been, you know,
and so we've always had this idea that it was that.
Yeah, and we were able to trace it.
We were able to trace it by it was called this in Oregon.
It was called this in Minneapolis.
But what was it before Minneapolis, right?
And then it pops up.
Files isn't very good at showing family relationships.
It can only show them if they're really close.
Yeah, but it shows relationships to pith.
Yeah, it shows relationships to c5.
It shows relationships to a5.
It shows relationships to hash plant haze and stuff.
And that's probably because it's an nl5 haze.
Yeah, and so you try to get you try to get various stuff like that.
So there's all these cool nicknames, you know, and some of them,
you know, I mean, we know the Cindy 99 story.
Supposedly he found seeds and he's laughing.
But supposedly he found seeds in a bud of Jack rare.
Yeah, so that at least gives you an indication.
But if it was just Cindy 99 and you don't know that backstory part.
What is Cinderella 99?
Yeah, what is the origin?
You know, what is the and then it might have one nickname in one group.
You know, I mean, we have some friends on our discord server and they get
into battles over it because, you know, the puck the puck was called the,
you know, hash plant.
Some people called it Skelly.
Some older people say bullshit.
No one ever called it Skelly, you know, no one ever called it this and it
was never that, you know, but different groups get it and they get different
nicknames and then what group you get it from or what group you hear about
it from.
That's the nickname that I can I can tell everyone that in my crew,
everybody that had the chem dog.
We called the dog.
Yeah, it was the dog.
You got the dog, you know, it wasn't chem dog.
We called the dog.
We shortened it dog and these new names didn't really pop up until 06
when our when our buddy skunk VA got on the forums and people were trying
to figure out what the fuck he was talking about.
Yeah, and so they started calling it the skunk VA cut, you know, and I
think Canada actually named a like Canada at the health.
Whatever their cannabis board is there that makes it legal.
They actually have a strain called skunk VA because they confused it so
much and confabulated it so much.
They were trying to name it after chem dog, but they only named it skunk VA.
I got to know what skunk VA thinks about that.
Yeah, you know, and it was and so the only reason why I bring that up is
just is is basically just because it just shows you the progressions of
different names that different small groups of cannabis smokers can give
to a strain and then if you get that strain through their crew, right,
right, you know, you know, what is it?
So, you know, another example would be, you know, we talked about this in
the first episode that I participated in was about how my buddy from
Staten Island went to Virginia to get the skunk.
And he dropped it off with chem dog when he got the dog in Massachusetts
and then he drove the skunk and the chem dog West, right?
Well, there's a whole bunch of people that call it the MSS.
Yeah, the Massachusetts super skunk, right?
Why? Because they heard about it or they saw it or they knew about it from
Massachusetts. Yeah, it was from Virginia, but they didn't know that.
You know, some people called that the super skunk.
That's what we always called it in our crew.
There was other people that took it to Colorado that was tied into the
same Virginia crew and they called it by the name on the tag.
You know, the number of the seed, which was six.
Yeah, so some people called it skunk six.
Some people called it Massachusetts super skunk.
Some people called it super skunk.
I think some people only briefly called it mass super skunk because what
we realized if there was another cut called mass super skunk proliferating
at the same time from the same crew.
But we didn't even realize that for years and years.
Yeah, of course.
That was pieced together fairly recently.
The point is, is that if you were from Virginia, you called it one thing.
If you were from Massachusetts or New York and you got it from that crew,
you like to call it another thing.
If you were from my crew in Northern California, you called it a different
thing and it was all the same thing, you know, and it was only recently
that we started figuring, you know, we were able to, you know, through
various friends and stuff, start talking to the person who read it
and, you know, get actual information on what it was, you know,
and stuff like that.
And so the point that I was trying to make there, I mean, I was kind
of long winded, is that, you know, we add nicknames and those
nicknames are cool and neat and funny and all that kind of stuff.
But then when you go to try to figure out the lineage of stuff,
you hit a wall a lot of the time from 90s.
We don't know what it is because it got named dumpster.
Or electric boogaloo or snow or, you know, or whatever it might be.
You know, the Trinity was named Trinity because it came out of a seed
of bud that a friend gave someone that came from Trinity,
Trinity County in California.
So that's where, you know, yeah, somebody, you know,
we do more with SSSC, it's quite possible.
Yeah, guys, if you if you run your questions to be a part of like
the giveaway and stuff, though, we'll be happy to answer them.
But if you run your questions to be a part of the giveaway and stuff, though,
put it in that little question section.
It makes it easier for us to read and catch it like we won't miss it as much.
And you'll be entered in the giveaway.
So keep that in mind, guys.
Yeah.
And so so the name game happened everywhere for different reasons.
In America, it was mostly in the in the 90s.
It was mostly just crews giving cultural names to stuff.
Yeah.
In Holland and other areas, it was to hide the lineage that they
you know, they would change the name a little bit sometimes and hide that.
That's common now in America, too.
Absolutely.
People like to hide exactly where they got what they got.
Well, you can't you can't create something magical if someone else created it.
But I mean, that's that's so that's the funny part, right?
Is that really what it boils down to is that, you know,
and we could talk about this kind of stuff, too, is like, you know, they
everybody everybody gets to breed or whoever wants to breed.
You know, you get seeds and you get clones and you get whatever from your crew.
Yeah.
From your connections and you start with whatever that was was.
There is nobody out there anymore that is collecting random mass land
race strains on their own travels for the most part, breeding them
and bringing totally unique things that no one else except for the farmers
in those regions had.
Everybody gets what they get from their friends and their crew.
Who they know.
And then they start breeding.
And that's not a diss.
Everyone wants to act like in today's world.
Breeders have to come out with some kind of totally unique genetics.
And they're not just standing on the shoulders of everybody that came
before them.
But that's a bunch of preposterous crap.
Yeah, it literally is.
You get it from, you know, you know, I mean, we could talk about
maybe you could talk about, you know, there's some famous strains
from down by you, Matt, that you had access to, like bull riders.
Well, see, bull rider was one of the few that I didn't have access to.
I didn't get access to bull riders.
Hogs breath.
Hogs breath I did.
Right.
That kind of stuff, you know, that doesn't give you very good clues
about what the hell's in it.
No.
Old Betsy, hogs breath, bull rider.
No, that's not very helpful.
P91.
P91.
Yeah, these are not helpful terms.
We're just barely being able to pick apart what's in P91 by its growth
expressions and running through enough S1's and S2's.
Yeah, so, you know, a lot of these things are just so they were cool
at the time and they were pop culture or they were culturally related
or they were an inside joke in the crew or something like that, you know?
Yeah.
And, you know, then, you know, it's, you know, that's just kind of the way
it was, but it makes it much more difficult now because a lot of these
clone only elites had been, you know, they were, you know, they were
just, you know, they were just, you know, they were just, you know,
because a lot of these clone only elites had these nicknames.
Yeah.
And figuring out what they actually are is tough.
Yeah.
You know, because, you know, it would be really amazing.
I mean, if technology was different, imagine if SSSC and Neville and
Sensi and Sirius and these different groups had been able to put up
all of their original cuts into something like Phylos or into something
better than Phylos, hopefully, or some kind of genetic marker group
where you could see the family tree now has exploded from all these things.
Oh, yeah.
Because the names have obscured just how much we depended on all of them.
Yeah.
In my opinion, at least.
Yeah.
Yeah, no.
Yeah, it does.
You know?
So, you know, well, yeah, I mean, someone says, I thought the P91
was a NL cubed project.
That was one of the many, many stories going around.
There's many.
There's so many about P91 that it's silverback tie across the something
else that it's silver pearl, that it's early pearl.
It looks super skunk based to me.
And, you know, when we were also talking to Corral, it was really
interesting to see back then that, like, you know, he got stuff from
various breeders, but a lot of his work came from bag seeds of wheat
he liked from coffee shops.
Yeah.
And, you know, I mean, obviously we've we've covered it, but Chemdog
is a bag seed.
Sour Diesel is a bag seed.
Cookies is a bag seed.
Trinity is a bag seed.
OG.
Yeah, you can.
OG was bag seed.
You can go on and on and on and on and on.
Apparently, Runtz was too, you know, like it's just never going to stop.
Yeah.
A bunch of a bunch of the most famous stuff is you find some seed
and a bud you like and something pops out of it.
And then people are like, oh, you know, I mean, even with me and
some of these like old cuts and people are like, oh, what about the
Maui? What about this?
What about that?
The reason why we call it the Maui is because that's where it was
from.
And I was too dumb to ask any other questions.
I mean, at the time, it wasn't like, you know, there wasn't this
like enormous thirst for specific lineage.
You just want a good week.
And so that's part of the problem, too.
Like when you start interviewing some of these people, you know,
when when Matt got to interview, you know, Seattle Greg or the
interview that we just did, you know, you're like, OK, what exactly
was was this?
What was Beatrix choice?
What was that?
Give me the give me the rundown.
Give me the grandparents.
Give me the how did you and they were like, oh, you know, I took
this good weed and I had this good weed.
And then there was this buddy over here that we from New York and we
mixed those all together.
We called it that because it was a funny thing.
And you're like, well, that's where that trail ends.
Yeah.
You know, you're not going to get the specifics of some of the stuff
and there's this huge desire to know that.
But a lot of the lineage, I mean, we should be blessed that we know
what we know and new information still bubbles up, you know, and
stuff like that.
And you know what's funny?
Like, I've never remembered the disclaimer to run that at the
beginning, but I want to go ahead and say it here and not so said it
a few times in the middle of comments and stuff.
But the history we're bringing you is is the best that we know it
currently.
Things change all the time.
People come out of the word works.
They're actually honest, you know, with some of these old lines and
can enlighten us on some of the stuff.
So when you guys are watching these episodes and stuff, do your own
research, go out there, kick, kick dirt.
If we're wrong, let us know.
You know, I mean, we're trying to bring you the best information as
we know it.
You're not catching me in anything.
If you're like, you're totally wrong and I can prove it.
Yeah, great.
I would love to hear something that clarifies something.
Some of this stuff is our best guess.
Yeah, usually when we present information, we try to get it corroborated
from different aspects of things.
That was one of the really important parts, actually, of the interview
that we just did was there's kind of been this battle between Sam
and Neville over exactly what happened and then getting Carell's
opinion on what he got from Sam as well and the time frame that
he got it in.
You start getting little pieces that add in and it backs up one
story.
Doesn't mean it's totally right, but that's what you do with evidence
is you're trying to gather up evidence and give your best guess.
Sometimes people disagree.
What do you do when three people were involved in the making of
something and two of them don't agree with the other one?
A lot of times people try to figure out which person do I think
lies less or lies about less or maybe their memory is just different.
That could be it too.
People are like, oh, you said something wrong.
It's a lie.
It's not a lie.
Sometimes it's a lie, but sometimes it's just people have different
memories of the same thing.
Yeah.
Sometimes it's just people have different memories of the same thing.
A lot of this stuff, we had a big chat with Caleb about breeding
and goals and stuff like that.
We chatted about how difficult it is to actually breed.
One of the things that's so crazy about bag seeds or accidental
pollinations is sometimes they're better than some human's best
effort.
That's really humbling.
It's like, oh, I'm going to breed.
I'm going to breed.
Neville said that all the F1s he made of haze, he liked more than
all the polyhybrids he made.
He kept trying to get stuff that was as good or better, and he
kept failing.
A lot of stuff, I think some of the reason why some of these 90
cuts still rule the game, like sour diesels and cushes and a lot
of these old cuts that are still blended into things, is because
they were just like two raw things that weren't like each other
accidentally combined.
That's one of the real things in breeding that makes a big
difference is if you can cross things that are really dissimilar
to each other, you tend to get better results.
It's a hard time to sit there and be like, oh, I'm going to take
cushmints and I'm going to cross it by cherry pie by cush.
Or something like that.
It's pretty similar.
Neville found that a lot of the pure Afghans didn't like each
other at all.
You take two totally different random things from two different
gene pools, and that's kind of why I'm a 90s guy.
I've said a bunch of times that I think the 90s is my favorite
era of weed.
The reason I'm a 90s guy is because I'm a guy who's a little
bit more into the early era of weed.
The reason why I think that is that that was sort of the first
polyhybrid era.
Most of the things before that were simple crosses.
Then people started taking simple cross 2F1s and crossing them
together.
A lot of times that raw work was really good.
The AK47, the bubble gum, the Cali mist, the western winds,
a bunch of the stuff Neville was doing, the sour diesel.
And the other thing about it is because good weed was so rare,
if it was good, it all sold.
So the best way to keep a bunch of diverse weed alive is if it
all sells super easy.
One of the worst things that's happened to cannabis is this
named strain game where these different waves of purples or
sours or cookies or skittles or whatever.
I've said it a bunch of times before.
Every time that's the only thing that's easy to sell and get top
dollar, a whole bunch of diversity is just going to get put by
the wayside.
Because people are like, this is hard to sell, this isn't hard to
sell.
Well, in the 90s, if it was good bud, it was easy to sell.
Which meant that every kind of good bud imaginable survived
because it all worked.
Right?
And I think that's really important for people to understand is
that if you want all this diversity to survive, you have to
support it.
Right?
Yeah.
I mean, it's a customer driven market.
And I think that that's very little understood.
I mean, I talked about that with my buddy, Manic, quite a bit
the other day.
It's a very customer driven market.
And what the customer wants is, you know, they want the new, the
shiny, what's hype, what's, you know, they want variety so they
can select from a pack.
And that really is the opposite of what breeding brings, you know,
like breeding brings uniformity, working lines, you know, there's
a thousand reasons why it's a customer driven market.
And if things are ever to change, there has to be that want from
the community to allow people to work lines for six, you know,
five, six years to actually work a line and not in because it's
not hype.
It won't sell.
It's a hard, it's a catch 22.
Yeah.
I mean, there's, you know, there's, I mean, it's kind of funny in
a sense, but I mean, I know we know people that one of the ways
that they got a bunch of old strains that they have is they had
six rare hype cuts and they would find old growers that had
something that they were really excited about.
This guy was like, oh my God, I'm having a hard time selling my
herb, you know, and maybe like, well, you know, I can give you
this blue cookies and you'll get top dollar and they've been so
pumped, you know, to get it, you know, and, and, and because
people, I mean, you know, the name of the game, you got to
survive.
Yeah.
You got to find something that moves.
You got to find something that unless you're growing strictly
on a personal basis and there's zero financial incentive in it
at all.
Yeah.
You have to give customers what they want.
And one of the things that, you know, we're not going to talk
about breeding very much on this episode, you know, but one of
the aspects is like for diversity sake is that it's hard to
grow things and to take a risk when the public might not like
it very much.
Yeah.
Which is why right now people are like, okay, well, how many
different ways can I cross Skittles cookies and cush and
find something new?
Yeah.
The problem is, is that since that's been done like crazy for
the last 10 or 12 or 14 years or whatever, people keep hoping
that they're going to try slightly different variations of
the same cuts combined and pop something massively new and
exciting.
Yeah.
You know, but they're really not.
And now everything looks like gelato.
Because I mean, it's just, but for that thing too, it's like,
it's not, it's just, there's only so many things you're going
to get out of the same combinations of traits.
And if you keep going from bad seed to bad seed, the bad seed
to bad seed, you're selecting in a single direction.
Usually you're selecting a single direction or a narrowing
gene pool regardless.
And the more it goes to that, the more you're going to see
things look all the same, have similar chirps, similar high.
So,
oh man.
So now we have a new top question.
I don't know if we want to do this.
Let's hit with some questions.
There's a bunch of good questions.
The top one right now is I know not so as talked briefly about
his headband cuts, but here's my question.
Which headband of his cuts did CSI use for his fem crosses
with the D and the TK?
If I could talk a little bit about the different cuts of
headband, which one would you use?
I know not so has talked briefly about his headband cuts,
but here's my question.
If I could talk a little bit about the different cuts of
headband he has and how long he's had each one, a little
background on where each cut came from, and finally, which
one of those cuts was used in the two crosses by CSI?
Okay.
So apparently those have gotten real popular, which is nice.
So at this point, CSI is way more prolific than I am in terms
of accessible stuff to the public.
So I gave him what I call my LA cut, which I've talked about
before.
I got that cut in the very early 2000s.
Mandelbrot was trying to change what he was up to and was
thinking about starting a seed company and starting breeding.
And so I gave him a whole bunch of my super dog crosses.
I gave him my sour diesel.
I gave him my super skunk and a couple other cuts.
There's been some rumors.
I gave him the Maui or the Mendo P or the Chemdog.
I didn't.
And he gave me the LA cut, which is the headband.
So that was the first headband cut I saw.
Maybe explain a little bit of the reason why it has two names
in your group, because it's caused a lot of confusion in the
headband.
So it's basically like it's a terrible situation.
There's two names.
So when I got it, you have to realize when I got it in 01 or
so, the Kush craze had not hit yet.
Nobody really had Kush.
We have a friend that had it.
There was a few houses in LA that were running it.
Shout out to Rez in Long.
Yeah, there was a few crews in LA that had it.
There was a few places in Florida that had it.
Nobody really knew about it.
The craze hadn't hit yet.
That was still four or five years away.
Really?
When would you say you're from Southern California, Matt?
When would you say the Kush craze really hit?
The rage came like 2006, 2007, 2008.
It was in everybody's hands by like 2008.
People started collecting rare OG cuts.
So you got to realize when I got this cut, it was LA Kush.
Yeah.
Okay.
Which now, I mean, I can't tell you how many times people have
been like, bro, that's not Kush.
I wouldn't know.
But you have to realize is that like in 01-ish or whatever,
nobody really seen.
Kush hadn't snuck out.
It was like a couple people that had it.
It was still super tightly held.
And I was like, well, what is this?
And he's like, it's a headband, Fino.
And if you go look, I have screenshots and stuff.
Mandelbrot wrote some essays and stuff for Humboldt Seed
Organization and some other stuff.
And he always talks about LA Kush.
And then in parentheses, he puts headband.
Okay.
Who named headband?
Headband is unknown.
Unknown.
Totally unknown.
Exactly what's in headband is unknown.
I tend to believe it's a Chemdog Super Skunk hybrid of some type.
I can't say that's all that's in it, but it has so many similarities.
It's a diesel.
It's not exactly a diesel, but it's a diesel family.
That's what it looks like to me.
We used to sell it as sour for the longest time.
No one ever called me out and said it wasn't sour.
In fact, when Mean Gene got it in my community way back when,
and he used it as the final stage in making his root beer,
which has become world famous in the last little bit,
all the rage, he got it as sour.
And some people would just call it that because that's what the buyers wanted.
And so when he lost it, he kept trying to get sours,
and none of the sours he got were it because it wasn't it.
He didn't even realize what cut it was until a while ago.
I showed it to him, and I cracked him a jar, and he was like,
oh my God, this is it.
This is the cut.
So basically what it boils down to is that there's two names for it,
LA Kush and headband.
LA Kush is vastly confusing because of the Kush craze that hit
and the fact that there's like 58 different Kush cuts
that came out of Southern California within five or six years.
And the headband, most people don't have it,
so they confuse it with Lumpah headband.
They confuse it with the Bay Area headband.
They want to know, well, is it different than the,
oh God, what are some of the other names, Matt?
Well, the 56, I mean.
There's all these different names, and they all get confusing.
They all have crazy lineage.
So I just called it LA.
It's what I put on all the tags on it, for lack of a better way to put it.
But back then, it was by far the first headband I'd seen.
And I didn't see Kush until I believe the first time I actually got a plant of OG.
I got the Flowrider in 04-ish.
So it was years before I saw anything that became known as Kush.
So that's the name.
The next headband cut I saw, some people called it 56 Day.
It takes longer than that.
The story is not the greatest.
I don't really like to tell it.
But basically, let's put it real simple.
There was some violence in the Kush crew down in Southern California.
Some people took this cut and fled to the bay.
They were hiding out in the bay, and they didn't want any drama to follow them.
So they had this cut, and they wanted to grow it, but they didn't want to call it that.
And so they decided to name it the headband to throw people off the trail.
And then at some point, a few years after that, maybe it was 05-ish or something like that,
they gave out a mislabeled tray.
They were selling a tray of cuts to a buddy, and they gave him a tray of this headband cut
instead of the other one, and it slipped out.
So if you see, there's an old friend of mine who runs a lot of chem strains.
He goes by ICC, I see collective on Instagram.
The headband cut that he runs is that cut.
Mr. Bob Hemphill got that cut around that same time from that same group.
That's the headband cut that he has.
Or that Matt Elite has, really.
Yeah, Matt Elite. I'm just saying different groups.
When people see me running headbands, and I'll mention this because we are going to release
a headband loop on it through Breeder's Syndicate.
So if people are looking out for that, that's going to be the 56 headband.
Now, in our crew, we have headband by Enato.
We always call that Enato's headband.
And then we have the 56 headband that I think most of us refer to as headband headband.
Yeah, so that came out.
I got it in about 06.
It's very Cush-like.
It's one of the most potent cuts I hold.
It's a really, really great cut.
And you're talking about the 56?
The 56.
I mean, actually, to be honest, both cuts.
I would put both the LA and the 56 in my top five potency of things.
I mean, they're really good.
They're really, really both high-quality strengths.
But whatever the headband, the 56, was called before, I don't know.
But it's not a headband.
It was renamed a headband to literally throw off the trail of whatever it actually is.
But to clarify, we don't know who named headband,
so it could have been the first use of the name headband.
No, because I got the LA cut in 01, and he said it was a headband, you know.
That's right.
And I don't think they renamed it until the mid-2004 or 2005 or 2006 or something like that.
That's interesting.
Because it didn't slip out in the bay until around that.
I mean, you could ask your buddy Matt Elite when he got it.
But there's a crew that got it in that same general time.
It's a super nice cut.
The other famous one is the Lumpa.
Which is an OG.
Which is another like Cush type.
He's pretty sensitive about it, but it seems like it popped up on the forums,
and the first place we can trace back him mentioning it is about late 08, early 09.
Yep.
So the LA predates that by about eight years.
It predates the 56 by about four or five years as far as having the headband name.
There's other things thrown out like Daywrecker and stuff like that.
I have no idea.
We can't trace the Daywrecker lineage very far.
It's very hard.
I can't trace it.
But to answer, to final the guy's question, the LA I gave to CSI specifically
because I wanted...
My main goal with breeding is to get better weed into people's hands.
And I knew he would throw it in various ways.
And I knew he would throw it in various rooms and release hybrids of it.
And I believe the first two hybrids he's released of it are the TK and the D, MD.
D, TK, and LA are some of my favorite things.
So I have high hopes that those things will combine well.
I especially have high hopes for the D, which for a variety of reasons.
But that's the headband cut.
That's the story of the three main ones.
There's some guys in New York that say they have a different one.
There's some other people that say they have this or that.
Headband is absolutely one of the most mysterious names in cannabis.
Lineage is a pain in the ass.
Who named it is a pain in the ass.
I'm not saying that I have the first one.
But I have the first one that I encountered.
Yeah, that's the first one you encountered.
It does seem like those other two popped up years after.
For lack of a better term.
Yeah.
So, I don't know.
There's another question that got a bunch of votes.
Whose Durban Poison is the official version, Mel or Sam?
Well, so I can answer that.
Also, when Correll stated the Durban was imported,
wouldn't that make DP comparable to Mexican Brick?
Yeah, so basically, we chatted about this at the end of the last interview.
But Mel Frank, in either 1978 or 79,
he gave Sam Skunkman both the Afghani One and the Durban Poison that he had.
And Sam traded him some sativas.
Sam then later on in 84, 85, when he went to Amsterdam,
he brought Mel Frank's version of Durban Poison to Amsterdam.
Mel Frank had some terrible accidents.
And he lost, I believe, all of his original seed collection
sometime in 83 or 84 as well.
So, we thought for a long time that Mel Frank's version
was the only Durban Poison in Holland.
And therefore, everybody's Durban Poison must be a derivative
of what Sam brought from Mel.
But then in the Correll interview, we find out that that was totally wrong.
And there was an actual coffee shop named Durban Poison
that sold South African weed.
And they got all their Durban Poison from bag seed
that they bought from the coffee shop.
So, that really widens the Durban Poison gene pool.
And where people got things.
So, if people got Durban Poison from SSSC, it was from bag seed.
If they got it from Neville, it was probably Mel's version.
And it's hard to say other seed banks carried Durban Poison
other than those two.
And we don't really know right at this particular moment
what their sourcing is.
So, I don't know if there's an official Durban Poison.
And the version that Mel is selling,
or that not Mel is selling, but maybe it's Todd
or somebody like that is selling.
It's all claimed to be original or whatever.
But, I mean, Mel said that he lost his collection
in the early 80s.
So, it would have to be stuff that they got back
from Amsterdam from someone at some point.
Maybe it was from Sam Skunkman.
Maybe it's reproduction Sam did.
And sold back to Todd or somebody else.
Or that kind of thing.
Who made Blue Dream?
Don't know.
So, the running theory is bluegrass seeds
or blue hen, which was the very first super silver haze
blueberry cross.
And the SC cut that we were all growing back in the day,
the very first iteration of Blue Dream,
was very much a super silver haze DJ blueberry.
So, that's the most conclusive I've seen.
Plus, the old photo in the Canna Bible
is a picture of the Blue Dream SC cut under blue hen.
And Jason Keen got a lot of stuff right about that part.
Yeah, so, I mean, I've heard rumors.
You know, it's kind of hard to say.
Yeah, it's nothing conclusive.
It's a great cut.
I mean, people laugh at it.
But when it's grown right,
and it's not, you know, people laugh at it
because there were so many people, it got so big.
So many people grew 7 to 10 pound Blue Dreams
and flooded the market with huge Blue Dream stuff.
You know, if you grow it and it only gives you
4, 5, 6 ounces, it's pretty dank.
And there was also the mass influx
of, when Blue Dream got popular,
Spanish seed banks kicking out a bunch of
blueberry haze crosses labeled Blue Dream
and US companies sold Blue Dream seeds in mass,
which really, really ruined the market for that actual cut.
Now that cut is almost impossible to find.
I see lots of stuff that looks like it,
but doesn't smell like it anymore.
So, there was another, were you guys able to find out
any more info about the Haze A and C females?
Not really, except for
there is a group of haze collectors in Holland
that have various ones, have various old hybrids and cuts.
And they call them different things.
They have some different names to them.
In the first part of the interview with Matt,
when he said he had Haze C, my jaw about hit the floor
because I thought he had the male
that he used all famously.
And that was confirmation that he had it
and he was going to use it and all this different stuff.
And that was pretty amazing.
Now it turns out that there are two different females.
That needs some more research.
I don't think Matt and I right now can speak
definitively to exactly what those are.
But the hope would be that there's some kind of hybrid
that we didn't realize existed.
That would be the best.
Someone was asking about Sacred Seeds.
I did and I mentioned this earlier
when someone asked if we were going to have Sam on.
I reached out.
I made an offer for him to come on the podcast
just to talk about history.
No bias.
He wasn't very receptive,
but hopefully in the future he changes his mind
because he's a very important character in all this.
Yeah, so what exactly makes a real skunk?
So I would say two things.
One, obviously, if anything that comes out
that smells extremely skunky, you could call skunk.
And two would be that's the name that Rob and Sam
gave to this hybrid of Colombian, Mexican and Afghani.
And so all the phenos that come out of that
would be real skunk.
The ones that smell like skunk,
the ones that smell like grape,
the one that smell like citrus.
I never call it skunk.
I only call it skunk one just to never divide the two
or to never confabulate the two.
But it just goes to show that you can have something
in a strain that's quite predominant for a while
and you can read away from it
and you can get other expressions to pop up.
And then those expressions that were once at once
very common, not.
Now you can't find them again.
Yep.
Is anyone working with an elite super silver haze?
Old Sog.
That's my favorite personally.
But yeah, there's good super silver hazes out there.
His is one that's been passed around a long time
on like Tana Cabana and other places.
And it's my personal favorite.
It had this Willy Wonka factor
where when you inhale it, it's cherry
and you exhale it's cheese.
It was really unique that way.
Very skunk oney in that sense.
It's faster flowering than most hazes,
much more manageable than most hazes.
I like it.
What about you?
You know, I like haze.
I like sativas in general.
I like I'm a peculiar kind of person.
I like I like different expressions of stuff.
You know, I mean, it's kind of like favorite food.
Even if you have your top three or four favorite foods,
you certainly don't want to eat them every day.
I have I have weeds that I would like to smoke regularly.
And then I have stuff that I would like to like,
you know, palate cleansing, if you will,
that I like to have around.
I'll say things like even most strains,
like like, for instance, you know,
the L.A. is one of my favorite cuts.
If you smoke it every day, you get ripped.
If you go a few months without smoking it
and then you smoke a fresh batch,
it does something different to you.
So there's something about terpenes
and cannabinoid content and building up
tolerances and stuff that, you know,
I think variety is the spice of life,
you know, and I like unique highs.
I like sativa highs.
I like indica highs.
I like blends.
It just has to be potent and do something to me
that I enjoy, you know.
Some more questions.
Top three strains that dead tour disseminated.
It's impossible.
Like it was it was literally an open air weed market.
People would bring all kinds of strains
from all kinds of walks of life to be sold
in small amounts to other hippies
at campgrounds and on the lot and stuff like that.
So, I mean, my top three might just be
the people that I knew.
You could probably ask a bunch of old dead heads
and stuff and they might have all kinds
of different stories of what their top three was.
You know, so, you know, I what,
which headband is the dog head from Skunk VA?
I believe I'd have to ask him.
We'd have to check to be sure.
I believe his is the 56 Day.
I'm pretty sure, but we have to ask.
Yeah, I'd have to I'd have to ask to be.
So it's definitely not the LA.
He does not have that one.
I believe him.
Like I said, I see Collective and him a long time ago.
They've known each other a long time.
I believe in that little circle in our little circle.
That's the one that got passed around.
So JJ, JJ said Lupus headband is fake.
You know, I don't know what to say about that one,
except for, you know, we think that the
Lumpus headband is a very potent cush, you know.
I think that's the fairest.
And I will I can quote Lumpa.
I mean, we were very good friends for a long time.
He said, that's just a fucking OG.
Like he even said it himself.
That's just a fucking OG.
So, you know, I mean, he's I mean, I I'm not I,
you know, the Lumpa headband is a good cut.
Yeah, it's it's it's it's enjoyable smoke.
It certainly came out later than the other headband cuts.
He's pretty protective of the name, you know,
because he put his name on it or whatever.
But it's a super nice cut, you know,
but it is one of the later headbands to pop up on the scene.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Speaking of Neville and NL5,
thoughts on the Basic 5 that is the
co-parent with Skunk 1 and the M39 Skunk 1
by Basic 5 from.
You know, that one's kind of tough.
You know, we asked one little question about it.
I didn't, you know, I didn't get the clearest answer.
I do think that they're probably the same.
I can't say for sure.
You know, it's not clear.
Yeah, unless unless he actually says like,
yeah, for sure.
This was it.
You may not remember.
Yeah, it's not.
It's at this particular time.
It's not clear.
I mean, that's really all I can say about it.
It does seem it does seem like you're right in the sense
that you can look at those two things and be like,
oh, those seem like they're similar or whatever.
But there's not there's not there's not any verification,
you know, of anything like that, you know.
So I don't know what to say about that anymore.
So that was a.
You know, that was a I don't know.
That was all the questions.
But yeah, do some housekeeping for a minute
and then we'll chat about some different stuff.
Oh, if there's a legend, you guys want to come on the show.
I mean, there's a lot of these old dudes out there.
And I mean, we're not really bringing people on
that like blood tenders and stuff like that.
That are more common era.
We're trying to keep this to the history of strains.
You know what I mean?
Like, that's what we love.
That's what we nerd out on.
But if you know someone that you'd be really into,
give them a shout.
Reach out to him.
Tell me there's this podcast.
You know, you might be into it.
Send it to him.
Yeah, I mean, we have some different ideas
and stuff like that.
It's going to be a pretty wide ranging podcast.
We started with the 80s just because that's kind of
like the beginning of what most people are familiar with.
We want to do some other work.
We have some pretty cool stuff planned.
Some of it takes a certain amount of research
and making sure that the proper people have time.
We're going to try to be bringing on.
You know, one of the things that's going on
with other podcasts is that they tend to be
interviews of current people selling seeds.
Which is great to get a view into the mind
of that person and an idea of what their desires
and what their ideas are.
But it seemed like it was underserved
and there could be a lot of interest in the history
of what's going on.
Right now and how we got here.
And so there's going to be a bunch of history.
There's going to be some interviews.
There's going to be some different aspects
of things going on.
Getting his only only fans channel up.
Oh my goodness.
So yeah, there's there's all kinds
of different things going on.
So yeah, I mean, people are, you know,
Breeder like Breeder Steve Bodie.
You know, people were raging about getting Caleb on.
We got him on.
We have a bunch of network of friends
and people that are like,
We have a bunch of network of friends
and different things like that.
You know, it's all about their availability
and them fitting into the show.
I mean, you know,
we actually didn't interview Caleb.
We just brought him on to talk about something
that's close to his heart,
which is breeding goals.
So we might have some people on that.
We're not even really interviewing them per se.
We're just adding their voice
to the larger group discussion,
you know, so yeah,
we have, you know, archive,
you know, there's various people
that have reached out.
We're going to fit them all in.
I mean, we want to keep
we want to keep doing all that stuff.
Staten Island.
I don't know.
I'll have to ask him.
I just talked to him last week.
We'll see.
We'll see what people say.
Some of them are shy.
Some of them are busy.
Some of them we might want to just wait
and fit in, you know,
Breeder Steve would be a good person
to bring on when we want to talk
about the Switzerland era of things
because he was one of the big people
in the Swiss era along with
Shanti and some others
or Blueberry or any number of
yeah or any number of different things.
So we're not just trying to bring people
on to talk about their history per se.
If we can talk about their history
and combine it with some other era
that's pertinent to them.
That makes sense too.
So be sure to keep your eyes out
for the notification emails.
We're still doing broadcasts right now.
However, we are planning
on switching over to Twitch.
So if you have a Twitch account
make sure if you don't have one
go make one very soon.
We're going to be switching
over to Twitch and it's going
to be a little bit different format
on Twitch.
I can actually put like pictures
up on the screen as opposed
to trying to hold them up
and like shakily show you.
So yeah, but but for the moment
we're going to keep doing
Crowdcast and make sure
that you're registered on Crowdcast.
Make sure you follow the podcast
if you want the notification.
Let's see what else we've got.
Well, then I'll throw
a couple things in here.
I'll throw a plug.
We have a Breeder Syndicate Discord
that we Matt and I
and actually quite a few
of our close friends contribute
to all the time.
So if you want to talk
about things at length
you can always hit us up on there.
We I just started doing documentaries
about weed different weed documentaries.
You know, we can show cool movies.
Yeah, we post content.
We post old pictures.
We post old articles seed bank stuff
all that different types of stuff,
you know, yeah,
I do look like I'm sitting in a pew.
I'm traveling right now.
So you're in this room.
I'm in this really odd chair.
That's not my style.
But this is what I have to do
in order to get to it.
But yeah, the Breeder Syndicate.
There's an email for me now set up there
that we set up this week.
So people want to ask questions.
Your your questions could turn
into a whole episode.
Frankly, you know, you never know.
There's a lot of stuff that's,
you know, we want to bring stuff
that's people, you know,
about people's interest.
But there's a there's a bunch of cool stuff
going on in the Breeder Syndicate Discord.
We chat on there all the time.
One of the things that Matt and I are doing
is we kind of wing it on this show
a little bit.
But the reason why we can wing it
is because this is our hobby.
You know, weed history,
learning all this different aspect,
trying to like find truths amongst this.
This is my weed life partner.
So this is this is what we chat about
all the time.
So really, this is just like Matt
and I have been doing this
with a big group of friends for years.
Yeah.
And all of a sudden we just turned
on the camera and decided
to bring other people in.
Yeah.
It's kind of is really kind of the focus of it.
And so some of this stuff is pretty
well worn paths for us.
Yeah.
So it's really not, you know,
the financial aspect of it is,
I mean, it's relevant in the sense
that you need finances to exist.
You might not know,
but the Speakeasy crew behind this,
they do a ton of time of editing
and a bunch of work
and a bunch of leveling
and a bunch of all this stuff
to bring this to you.
They're kind enough to host this thing.
So, you know,
purchasing seeds from them,
purchasing some merch from them,
contributing to Breeder Syndicate merch.
We got merch, you know,
joining Breeder, joining the
joining the Breeder Syndicate.
It costs about the cost of a latte
a month.
Yeah.
So it's not an enormous situation
out there, you know, so.
And in the very near future,
there is going to be major
discounts for seed purchases
on Speakeasy.
If you're a part of their Patreon
and our Patreon,
which would cost you 10 bucks a month.
But it's it's insane.
Like the amount of savings
that they're talking about
doing is pretty crazy.
Yeah.
So we get along with
we get along with,
you know, obviously Speakeasy
are our friends.
They're hosting our thing.
They're bringing it to people.
They put a bunch of time
and energy into having us talk
about a bunch of weed nerd stuff.
So, you know,
certainly if you want to support them
or buy seeds from them
or merchandise
or get on here and chat
that that helps things.
So all these lives,
we do these lives twice a month
and then we turn them into podcasts.
They're not the only podcast
we put out, obviously,
but we're going to keep
this kind of stuff going,
you know, so if you're interested in this,
we're going to keep rolling out.
We're going to try to bring
every relevant bit of history
over time to the forefront.
Some of it takes a while
to develop, so it sounds confident
and we know what we're talking about.
And we can get the people
that we'd like to bring on
with us on the site.
But bear with us.
And, you know,
thank you all for listening
as always.
We still got more to do, dude.
You know, well,
there you go.
Keep going.
OK, so we got,
I mentioned the seed drop.
We're going to have
a Breeder Syndicate seed drop
with the 56 Day Headband,
Blue Bonnet.
It's going to be me
and Natsu's first little adventure
together in that sense.
Also, one thing
I never mentioned
and it's super important.
It helps us out a lot.
It helps, you know,
the podcast grow.
Please go rate it
on whatever platform
you're watching this on.
Whether it's,
I don't know, Stitcher, iTunes,
Google Podcast, any of it.
Go throw up a rating
and if you don't like it,
tell us what you don't fucking like.
Tell them I'm fucking ugly.
Whatever.
Just interacting.
Interacting is awesome.
So please go rate it.
And yeah, that's it.
Yeah, certainly rate it.
Certainly if you want to send links,
if you listen to the podcast
on Spotify or on YouTube,
or on Spotify or on Apple
or iPhones or whatever,
you know,
share it with friends,
share it with people
you think might be interested in with it.
One of our,
the main goal for this is education.
We really want to get
some of this history out there.
We really want to spark
conversations amongst people.
We really want to get interest
in like how we all got here going.
That's the coolest part
about it for me, honestly.
And that's why I do it.
This is a total hobby,
you know.
So I appreciate everyone
that listens.
It takes the time out of,
you know,
their Friday night to chat with us
and go through it.
So really appreciate all that.
And for those of you posting
old memorabilia now,
like the stuff you got,
thank you.
Like anybody who's digging up
all this stuff
that we've never seen,
like there's a lot of stuff
maybe you only have
that last issue of that magazine.
So mad props to everyone
who's joining in
on the history search,
adding to the conversation,
all that.
I love it, man.
Keep it going.
And just because you think
that some common history
might be common to your crew,
it might be rare
or it might be a puzzle piece
that fits into other things
that we already know
that might be a real light bulb.
So reach out, you know,
and all that, all the time.
We're not elitist on any level,
but it's crowdsourcing
information and trying to verify it
and trying to get it out there
to people.
All right.
Well, it's been fun, fellas.
Enjoy everybody's Friday night.
Peace.
Peace.
