Welcome to Breeders Syndicate, where we explore the history of a clandestine scene through
the eyes of the folks who lived it.
I'm Matthew, owner of Riot Seeds.
I'll occasionally be joined by my co-host, NotsoDawg, breeder and grower from Mendocino.
Welcome to the underground.
That's a chug-a-gawk, dude.
Perfect script from up north, dude.
Cut a paw on it?
All right, how's everyone doing?
Welcome to Breeders Syndicate.
I'm Matthew.
This is my buddy, Notso.
Evening.
I think we're going to talk about some cups, and we're not talking about the kind that
protect your genitals.
We're talking about the kinds that come with awards for prestigious accomplishments in
cannabis.
First off, one of my homies, Grayskull, hit me up and asked me if I could let everyone
know that a fellow outlaw grower has gone down.
They're trying to raise some money for Emerald Delta over on ... What is it called?
GoFundMe.
If you can, we're going to have a link floating up in the description as we're going on the
bottom.
Go check it out.
Type it in the description.
All that.
Yada, yada, yada.
Go help a friend out.
It was all weed charges, and it's $160,000 bail in Tennessee.
Fuck the police.
Anyway, let's continue.
Yeah, so cups.
Cups and events.
Recently, a big event has happened called the Ganjir event, or Cowboy Cup, I want to
say.
Cowboy Cup, yeah.
Yeah, you've seen it out and about on the old Instagrams and the other social medias.
It's been popping up a bunch.
People have been wanting to talk about it, so I wanted to put up a quick explanation
kind of from Ganjir.
I think that is the best one to do.
I believe it's on this window.
Let's see.
Yeah.
Can you see it?
Yeah.
All right.
So this is a quick explanation from Ganjir of what happened.
And I won't read the whole thing, but I'll scroll through it.
It said, last weekend, 12 certified Ganjir were chosen to judge at the 2022 Cowboy Cup
in Stillwater, Oklahoma.
The judges were selected by both Ganjir team and organizers of the Cowboy Cup based on
experience, field of expertise, and ensure diverse viewpoints were represented.
So basically, they chose a bunch of judges.
They go into detail about how judges were chosen, whatever, and people were allowed
to submit samples.
And they had to have COAs with their samples, certificate of authenticity, basically saying
that there's no mold, no residual chemicals from growth, whatever, no junk in your shit,
so they had to submit paperwork with each sample.
Well, at the cup, I guess they had microscopes, like they show right here, sitting there to
analyze each sample.
And here are the results.
I guess, despite the COA, they wanted to review each sample there under the microscope, which
I think is actually good.
I think that's a great safeguard because you never know what kind of authenticity these
labs really bring to the table.
You can also see trichome development and stuff too.
Exactly.
I mean, you get a real good, you get a much better view of the bud, obviously, and people
that understand buds can get an actual good look at it, what's going on there.
So the samples, it says, unfortunately, results were not great.
Of the 12 samples in the sun-grown category, 10 were found to consistently show both visual
and aromatic indications of contamination.
So that means 10 smelled like mold or whatever, presence of something, some kind of scent.
Of the eight samples in the light assist category, seven were found to consistently show both
visual and aromatic indications of contamination.
Not good.
Of the 20 samples in the indow category, two were found to consistently show both visual
and aromatic indications of contamination.
This means that contamination was clearly visible in 19 of the 40 samples submitted
to us for assessment.
And here's some pictures so you guys can get an idea.
Ladies and gents, I'm sorry, I always say guys, ladies and gents can get an idea for
some of the contamination in there.
It said, because the levels of contamination were both clear and evident to the certified
Gangeers, the samples were disqualified from the competition.
Each disqualified sample was photo documented for proof of the contamination.
So yeah.
Not good.
Not looking good for the Oklahoma entrance.
Okay.
So I got to remove this thing.
There we go.
There we go.
So not looking good for the Oklahoma entrance.
There were a lot of people really hyper, super pissed off that thought that there was some
rigging going on that maybe these people were trying to sell them.
I guess during a speech or some kind of post that one of the people from Gangeer made,
it offered them some training in being able to spot contamination and mold and maybe how
to grow different.
And this upset a lot of people because they're like, we're growers, we know our stuff.
We had COAs, you had a little scope with the, you know, you know, stuff like that.
So that's kind of how it was taken.
And it's really interesting to watch how it turns out in the community.
Yeah.
I mean, I will say, I do think it's a little, just to start, I think it's a little silly
that in California and the West coast, at least I would say that when people are going
for awards and things like that, they, you know, they make sure that what they're submitting
is hopefully not going to do that.
Right.
Not just grabbing random handfuls.
If you can find 19 out of 40, that's basically 50%.
If you can find visible enough mold that all the judges agree it needs to go, then, you
know, there wasn't that very good quality control for a lot of the entrants, put it
that way.
Yeah.
So that's where we know we're at with the situation now, but we kind of wanted to talk
about how we got to this situation, the, the points of harvest cups and how they kind of
originated and onto the Amsterdam cannabis cups and on into, you know, other sorts of
quasi harvest cups that maybe started more traditional and legit that became more corporate
and onto where we're at with a lot of these, you know, extract throw downs.
But to start, I mean, not so who knows better about the early cannabis cups and my boy not
so.
So let's jump into this.
I, yeah.
I mean, I, I think there's probably two kinds you could say, you could say of cups.
There was like you mentioned, there was a lot of informal cups, which are essentially
friends gathering to share weed.
Right.
Yeah.
And then there's like cups that are advertised and more famous and like the you know, like
the high times cannabis cups and the, you know, the Emerald cup and a lot of the different,
you know, hashish competitions or different things that have happened where it's a little
bit more public.
And as a result of that, there's usually money and rep involved.
So it brings a different, it brings a different flavor to it, I think.
Always.
And, you know, these days as, as evidenced by some cowboy cup in Oklahoma, cups are just
events that anyone can hold.
And as a result, there's hundreds of cups across America now, probably when it comes
down to it.
And then back in the day, as far as like ones that got advertised, there was pretty much
one.
Yeah.
There was the high times cannabis cup held in Amsterdam, you know, and that cup had a
major impact.
Probably it's, you know, the most impactful one because that was a real nice issue at
high times.
Yeah.
And the cannabis cup winners would have like, there'd be pages of really high quality gloss,
you know, for, you know, nice pictures, write-ups, the whole bit.
And I think it kind of drove seed sales and desirability, especially in the, in the nineties.
Yeah.
It was a big deal to win cups.
Don't you agree?
Yeah.
I mean, seed sales were kind of dependent on that, on these cups that were going on.
And most of the people that were entering those first cannabis cups were dealing in
seed sales.
I mean, most people's first images that they ever saw of any kind of AK 47 or big bud or
white widow, or, you know, a lot, you can name a lot of different strains where like,
probably the first time you ever saw it was pictures in high times in the cannabis cup.
Well, I mean the cannabis cup, so prestigious in a lot of people's minds, like at least
in the general public's that when a lot of us get into growing, when we first go to buy
our first pack of seeds, the one thing we think about, has it won a high times cannabis
cup?
Because most of us know, even with basic smoking knowledge, when you jump into this, that there
is a magazine called high times and that they have an event called the cannabis cup and
that there are winners of these things, you know?
So I think that's a lot of people's first entrance is, is who has won the cannabis cups
when they get into growing.
And it was kind of one of those things too, where Amsterdam at the time was one of the
few places in the world where you could gather openly with a weed festival.
So it, it brought together a bunch of heads from all over the place.
And there was some, there was some weird stuff about it too.
There was people that thought that people that went there were watched.
They were worried about a bunch of gathering of growers and seed makers and hustlers and
stuff because, you know, it was heavily under prohibition at the time.
And there was big agencies in Europe and America, like wanting to know what was going on.
So there's even a bunch of drama about the cup has always had some weird politics.
But from a cannabis perspective, and certainly from like a younger smokers perspective, I
had safe to say, it's safe to say that a lot of people would get that, that issue of high
times and drool over the multi-page photo shoot of the winners and the entries and,
you know, and all that type of stuff.
And so, you know, some of the, and in fact too, some of the late eighties stuff, you
know, it's so old now that it's reference points for some of those early strains and
photos of those early strains.
And, and the, I don't think we've mentioned it yet.
The first cup was held in 1988, correct?
I think it might've been 87.
I think so too, because the first high times 87 one was skunk one, but it listed here as
88, but I want to say on the front cover of high times, it was the red issue.
And I want to say it was 87, but I might be wrong.
I might be wrong.
Yeah.
I think we learned something recently here about the second cup winner, which is the
early pearl skunk one on lights five Hayes, right?
We did.
I mean, that one, that one's gone through a metamorphosis.
So when that got released, it won the 89 cannabis cup overall.
Right.
And that's what Neville sold it at.
And that's what he entered it at.
But then a couple of years later, he changed the name to silver pearl by Hayes.
Yeah.
Right.
But it was the same mix.
He didn't change the mix.
He just changed the name so you could still read exactly what it was.
Yeah.
And then when Sensi bought out his company, they just changed it to silver Hayes.
Yes.
And they took away most of the information of what was in the hybrid itself.
It was just a name and a vague description, but they mentioned that it won the 89 cup.
Yeah.
And Neville helpfully laid out what the mix was.
So it went from a, I mean, I can't even remember how it was written.
Is it like EP by skunk one by NL five by Hayes?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So that's not a very great marketing name.
No, it's not the best.
It's not the best marketing name at all.
No.
So Neville got rid of that and called it, you know, and called that strange silver pearl.
Let's see.
I'm going to move this thing so we can see it.
I don't know if you can see the screen here.
It might be too tiny for you to see, huh?
It's too tiny for me to see, but you can walk me through it.
Okay.
Third cup.
We got Northern lights five from the seed bank.
Classic.
So maybe I'll throw in a little tidbit about that too.
There are several pictures from various people that Matt and I have gathered of living flowering
and well close to harvest and dried flower of that exact famous and L five cut.
Yeah.
And so without, you know, because it won it, it got the full photo spread and it got some
pictures and it gave us a reference point 35 years later or whatever for what that exactly
looked like.
But there's more to the story, like even more because if that Neville's, if that in
all five that won the cup, wasn't the same in all five that was shipped over in that
little terrarium, whatever terrarium type situation, then referencing the, the Seattle
and all five seed line to that specific cut would be a little confusing.
Yeah.
I mean, there's, it's one of those things where Matt and I, you think you have something
like that figured out and nuance comes in.
So I mean, they I'm not even exactly sure what to say that I went, but there's that
different people have different perspectives and remember things, you know, and even today,
like the history history is gets, it gets altered perhaps is the best way to put it.
It can be fluid.
It can be fluid.
It can be fluid.
Well, you know, you think you understand something and then something comes along that, that
kind of flips that on its head.
And so Matt and I recently got some credence that like, maybe, you know we had heard a
long time ago that one of the NLs might've been NL Steve Murphy's Afghan mixed with a
Neville Afghan.
Yeah.
And, and Seattle, Greg, and a post a long time ago, even sort of confirmed it, but then
all the other evidence came out against it and it kind of dropped and we never heard
it again.
Well, recently we heard that that was probably true.
Yeah.
That it's a pretty, it's a decent, reliable source that would know.
It's definitely a close end and reliable source.
So you know, it's, it's kind of a lot of, a lot of this old oral history, you have to
lean into what you believe.
So what Matt was referencing is that we believe that there was two famous NL five cuts.
There was one that was a little bit more sativa that was passed around the Pacific Northwest
and Seattle Greg's crew.
And there was one that Neville found out of NL five labeled seed that Greg sent him that
he thought was a total Afghan throwback and exhibited no sativa influence that he could
discern whatsoever.
And supposedly this one mother cut became the winner of all that and went on to become
famous and got bred to all kinds of things.
Supposedly I think, I think the story is that he crossed that to that NL five cut to either
Afghani one or that Mazar, you know, and then that something was selected from that and
that became the NL five cut that won the cup.
Indeed.
Yeah.
So that's, that's something to clarify.
Like if we ever speak misspeak on anything and we get, you know, any future info, we'll
always update it as best we can without throwing anyone under the bus or doing anything crazy.
But we like to make sure that we get everything as accurate as possible, no matter what, even
if it is us being wrong at one point, it's important.
What one next?
So we are at, let's see here.
We are at a skunk from free city.
So I assume it's like a skunk one, maybe.
I don't know who free city is.
No, I don't either.
Then we have Hayes skunk one from homegrown fantasies or homegrown fantasy, which became
homegrown fantasy later.
And then it says a high times cannabis cup winner, master Kush.
I don't know why it says that beside it.
Hindu Kush across the skunk one, which I wonder if that was a, I wonder if that was pot of
gold.
Hmm.
I do.
I wonder if I've got a name.
Did it say, did it say, what did it say again?
Hayes?
It says Hayes skunk one from homegrown fantasy.
Then in parentheses, it says high times, cannabis cup winner, master Kush equals Hindu Kush
X skunk one.
But then below it, it says Hayes, the 1993 is Hayes, Northern Lights five percent seed
bank.
And then it says the same thing next to that.
I times cannabis cup winner, master Kush equals Hindu Kush across the skunk one.
So I don't know why they're putting, let's move on.
So yeah, once you get, once you get to 30 or 94, you get to Jack Harer.
That's 95.
They're wrong, right?
No.
White Widow is 95.
No.
So I, uh, I went to that cup when I was, when I was, huh?
Which cup was it?
The 94 cup for Jack Harer?
Yes.
The Jack, the one, because what they did is, um, that cup, uh, that was, that was one of
the first times I went out to, uh, get seeds.
I'd gone that summer previously, but I went back in fall.
Um, and they, uh, they wanted to dedicate that whole, the whole theme of the cannabis
cup was around Jack Harer and his, um, and his contributions to cannabis.
Yeah.
Right.
They had speeches by various people and all kinds of stuff.
It's special limited edition posters too.
I still have a few.
Yeah.
One of them, one of my promise to pack a Lolo.
I promised one away already.
So don't hate me.
They really, they really tried to ramp up marketing then.
Right.
And so they wanted to release something that was named after him for that cup.
And Neville had been working on this, uh, NL five Hayes by skunk Hayes project, but
he didn't really feel like it was ready.
Yeah.
But the drunkards convinced him to release it.
Um, and they released it at the cup.
Um, and it was called Jack Harer after the theme of the cup.
Yeah.
And then, and then Neville kept working that line and three or four years later he re released
it, uh, improved as he thought as super silver Hayes.
Yeah.
So, but yeah, I was at that, that cup.
Um, one thing I'll say about the, the, uh, the, these cups is from a personal level,
right.
I went to like three of them and it was definitely my least favorite time of being in Amsterdam.
Um, because late, it was usually in late November.
Um, and Amsterdam's cold that time of year.
Right.
So it could be sleeting or icy rain or it's freezing and then you're in these coffee shops
and like, and they're super crowded and most of the best weed is being hoarded for all
of the dignitaries and like famous people and various folks coming in to smoke weed
for the cannabis cup.
Yeah.
So for a normal person, it was like crowded, cold.
Um, and it was harder to find good weed.
Yeah.
But it was still cool to see.
And they did just like at, they did, we were just describing, they did usually drop big
name seed drops, um, at the cup itself.
Yeah.
Um, because it got a lot of free press and everybody was there, you know, I did find
recently in an old article.
It was the, the year bubble gum won the cannabis cup and it was in an old article in high times.
They were interviewing Tony from Sager Matha and he was the one who entered it in for the
gray area and it was actually bubble berry that he entered in his bubble gum.
So I saw that and that, I was like, what?
I didn't even know that.
So apparently sometimes what is entered in and named isn't necessarily what it is.
We need to clarify that as well.
Oh yeah, that should be clarified too.
I mean people, you know, there's, uh, Neville would say that, you know, the same cut that
he had of, you know, got went of NL five skunk Hayes got like four or five different names.
Yeah.
And we've seen that out West a bunch too fast forward a bunch of years.
But what happened I think is by the, by the early to mid nineties, the cannabis cub became
a big vehicle for selling seeds.
Yeah.
So Matt was about to talk about what is it?
95 like the year after it's when white widow one.
Yeah.
So it looks like by 1995 greenhouse seeds started smashing the butthole out of the cannabis
cup.
We have 95 white, uh, white widow, 96 white Russian.
Yep.
97 was peacemaker.
Yep.
We got 98 SSH for silver Hayes, 99.
We got super silver Hayes again.
Three times.
Yeah.
And then 2000 all to something, all of a sudden something weird happens and we have blueberry
winning a cup as it should, as it should always win every cup.
And don't you forget it.
But that, that's, that was the departure from the normal, right?
So what should be mentioned is that at the time, um, white widow, white Rhino peacemaker,
which is a great white shark.
Um, and super silver Hayes all came out of the same shop.
Yeah.
Um, it was all out of greenhouse.
Uh, the white family was stuff getting released by Shanti Baba and the Hayes was stuff getting
released by Neville.
Yeah.
Um, so greenhouse, I think they swept, I think they placed top for five, six years in a row.
Yeah.
It got pretty ridiculous, you know?
Um, and for different things too.
Yeah.
Yeah.
There were lots of accusations during that time of purchased cups and whatnot.
And of course there were heavy arguments that it was only done on merit during those years.
I mean, um, and to be real, they had some of the most accomplished breeders in history
working for them at the time.
So they didn't necessarily have to buy cups to win.
Most of the people around them were using F twos or, you know, different filial generations
or hybrids thereof the work established by the people who are winning the cups.
So by that point, I don't know that it was necessarily something we can go, aha, it was
already corrupt.
It was, well, I mean, the, with the white family, that's the sort of the proof is in
the pudding in the sense that it started winning cups in the mid nineties and it was one of
the most common breeding tools for the next decade.
Yeah.
The amount of people that bred with white widow or white, white Rhino or great white
shark or any of those white family things.
I mean, I think that, um, you know, I've mentioned before that like when I first went to like
some of Ron's harvest parties and stuff, um, things by white widow or one of the most common
things you would find.
Yeah.
Um, it was just, it just became a huge family.
So in that regard, I don't, you know, and super silver Hayes did the same thing.
So I do think there was politics, but I think there was a crew there that had significantly
better weed.
Yeah, I would agree.
And they just sort of, and honestly Neville, you know, I mean, Shanti came in with the
white family late, but Neville pretty much dominated the nineties.
Yeah.
To a large degree.
Yeah.
Yeah, absolutely.
I mean, yeah.
Everything except, uh, 88 was skunk one and, uh, 91 up until the white widow in 95 was
Neville, everything else.
So it was like Neville had this, had this big run and then Neville and Shanti joined
forces and then the stuff they released together under greenhouse at a big run.
Um, and I also think too that like, I mean, cause it, it did for me, um, you know, you'd
go to, you'd go to Holland and you try to buy those seeds.
Yeah.
So by after the, the year that blueberry won the cup, we have a new entrant for the, the,
the king of the crown, which is dairy from Barney's farm with sweet tooth.
Hmm.
Do you remember the sweet tooth?
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's some breeder Steve work.
Yeah.
The sweet tooth.
It was a blueberry, sweet, pink grapefruit if I remember correctly.
No, no, no.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And you know, there was this, it was a Fino sweet tooth three.
Um, there was a lot of seed.
There was a lot of people.
I would say in that, in that era, probably the three or four most common breeders as
far as like new school was like, there was the white family from Shanti.
There was the blue family from DJ.
Um, you know, there was, uh, um, there was stuff from spice of life, which is, we were
just talking about, there was a lot of work being put out right then by breeder Steve,
you know, his, his Louis legends, ultimate Indica, his blockhead, his sweet tooth.
Um, and probably, uh, probably even the first, the, the, the first edition of, uh, of, uh,
brothers grim was right around that era too.
I want to give props to the real breeder of legends, ultimate Indica.
And that's my boy red.
And if you want to, if you want to check out red, we have a interview with him and chimera
ways back.
A few of them.
It was, I mean, there, there's always been a, there's always been a difference.
The person that releases the seed line is the actual breeder.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Of course.
Many times they're the aggregator and they're the person that was willing to take seeds
from someone else and go public with them in some fashion.
Yeah.
You know, and a lot of breeders are a mix of the two.
They made some things themselves and they got some things from other people and, you
know, and they went that way, that route.
But I would say that, uh, yeah, I mean, it was one, it became one of the biggest drivers
of, uh, of sales of seeds and popularity.
It was like kind of an event thing.
Even if you didn't buy high times every month, if you were a stoner, you probably bought
the high times cannabis cup issue.
Yeah.
I would say in that era.
And there, during this time when blueberry started winning, cause for two years it was
blueberry stuff that won.
Um, there was some alleged, alleged, maybe we should say alleged people getting, you
know, getting caught and banned from participating in the cup for a few years after Chanty and
Neville disappeared.
Maybe our young, our little buddy, this guy.
So yeah, I mean, they, uh, that's, that's kind of an interesting story in the sense
that greenhouse seeds is, uh, was a partnership between, uh, Neville Chanty and, and Arjun,
right.
And it was several very cool coffee shops to visit in Amsterdam.
Um, you know, and they sold some of the best flower in the, in the spot and they had, they
were the exclusive spot to get, uh, Neville and Chanty work after Neville left Sensi.
Yeah.
So for five or six years there, they kind of ruled the roost.
And I think eventually Chanty and Neville chafed under, um, sort of being like the backend,
but still had to be in the shadows a bit while Arjun was the face.
Um, and they decided to break off and do their own thing.
Uh, Chanty first and then Neville a year later.
And after Neville's experiences at Sensi, uh, when he partnered at greenhouse, he did
not let any seeds or, um, breeding stock or anything like that be controlled by a greenhouse.
They kept that in house themselves.
Um, so when they, so they provided greenhouse with a bunch of flower and a bunch of seeds
to sell.
Well, when they left that left greenhouse a real issue because it was the biggest seed
bank at the, you know, seed company at the time it had been winning awards for five or
six years in a row.
It had all these unique lines.
It was crushing the competition and all of a sudden it didn't have any breeding stock.
Um, or any, uh, or any in-house breeders.
Yeah.
And I believe that's when, uh, Franco got hired.
Yeah.
I have no idea when Franco came in.
That was, I believe he came in after Neville and Chanty left.
Yeah.
He wouldn't have been there when they were there.
No.
And he, and he, and then, and then he worked for greenhouse and they ended up using a bunch
of greenhouse seed that they had to do Fino hunts.
And they started making a bunch of Arjun's Hayes one Argent taste, super lemon Hayes,
all these different things.
Yeah.
But we believe that they actually got banned from competition for a year for trying to
tilt the scales in their favor.
I think it was a few years fan.
Actually, it might've been a few, it might, it was at least one.
Yeah.
At least one, at least one, but it went to show that what he really wanted obviously
was he really wanted to win some cups after his stars left.
Yeah.
It was a big financial thing, you know?
So from 2001 to fricking 2000, I'm trying to watch my language.
So fricking 2012, it is a head to head show.
And this is a long time between Barney's Daria Barney's and greenhouse.
And we are basically having cannabis cup winners with morning glory, whatever the
hell that is a Hawaiian snow, which was whatever they were selling that month as
Hawaiian snow.
We have amnesia Hayes.
We're all familiar with that.
We have Willie Nelson, not made by dairy from Barney's farm.
Arjun's ultra Hayes.
Number one, God knows we have G13 Hayes.
I believe from who made that was Neville too.
Neville originally maybe.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think he gave it.
I think he gave some to Soma and Soma.
Someone did.
Yes.
Yeah.
But I think that goes to show right there that there was probably a 15 year, 18 year
period where the cannabis cups in high times in Holland where the epicenter.
Yeah.
And then the epicenter shifts.
Yeah.
And you're talking right around that time.
You're talking early 2000s, right?
Yep.
2001 to 2012.
Well, now we start getting some of the early emerald cups in California.
Now we start getting some more activity.
The forums and things had changed things a whole bunch.
So people were communicating in different ways.
You could, you could buy and trade seeds on the internet.
And Amsterdam started not becoming the primary destination that people flew to to get seed.
Yeah.
You could get it from Canada.
You get it from local, different folks.
You could get it from, you know, DMing people on Overgrow or Cannabis World or ICMag.
Right?
Yeah.
I mean, when you were first coming out, like who, who was big on the forum selling seed?
Oh God.
Who was big on the forum selling seed?
Vic High.
It was the end of the Vic High era.
That everything was like Space Queen, Widow, something.
Yeah.
Jojo was big.
Dutch Flowers had just started or started, ended.
Who else is big during that time?
Brothers Grimm had already ended.
Oh, Spice Brothers.
Who else?
Who was that other dude?
It was another guy that did all like Brothers Grimm repros.
I can't remember off the top of my head, but yeah, he did a bunch of Apollo 11.
The stuff like that was real big.
And TGA had just started making their name.
Right.
So, and those are all for the most part, non, non, they're not Holland based situations.
Exactly.
About that time, Joey Weed, thank you.
I had just, I think about that time I had been hipped to the whole market by about
2007, 2008, I had already been hipped to the whole fact that the market had been
moved, that everything that the Dutch were selling was probably made in Spain and not
exactly what they would have been selling, say even 10 years prior, you know?
Well, it's fair.
It's also fair to mention that in 1999 or so, maybe it was 2000, they changed the
laws in the Netherlands where before you were allowed to legally grow cannabis to
make seed.
And then they changed it and they closed that loophole.
And around that time, a lot of the traditional seed companies in Holland got
raided.
Yeah.
And genetics were lost and no, everyone's been very tight lipped about that era.
But we know Sensi got visited.
We know Serious Seeds got visited.
We know Tony from Sag Martha got busted so bad he shut down for 15 years.
Yeah.
It kind of rolled through.
So some nuance of all that stuff moving to Spain and or Switzerland is all of a
sudden Holland became unfriendly.
Yeah.
And sadly, people lost some stock, some mother stock and some father stock and, you
know, and things got mixed up and there was great financial pressure to not admit what
you'd lost.
Yeah.
Right.
I mean, it's kind of like we kind of trust Sensi in the 90s and increasingly not
as the 2000s went on, right?
As Neville had less to do with Greenhouse and Sensi, I think a lot changed and it
became very obvious.
And it was mostly because, I mean, there's only so many people that really take
everything so serious when it comes to genetics and being that anal about getting
everything right the way it's supposed to be.
There's only a few that have ever existed, in my opinion.
So then you could probably say that sometime in the in the early 2000s, the High
Times Cannabis Cup, after sort of like a 15 year run of dominance, really started
losing pizzazz and like the capturing the imagination of stars.
Yeah.
It changed.
And, you know, we, you know, 215 and Colorado and there was different things that
were going on in America at the time where things were starting to loosen and open up
more and more.
So the epicenter of interest shifted.
Yeah.
I want to say the first Emerald Cup was probably in the early 2003 or four.
Let's see.
If I had to if I had to guess, I would say within a year or two of that and started
Arial 101 in Mendo, which is a little bit little ways north of Laytonville.
And that's a property Tim Blake owns, and he threw events there for a long time.
I can't remember exactly when it when it grew, but but that's kind of like what
shifted is, is cups sort of went through a lull of not being all that important.
Yeah. And then I think they probably had a resurgence when the West Coast Medical Cup
started growing in popularity.
Yeah. The Emerald Cup, when the Emerald Cup especially got bigger, high times started
throwing instead of having one cup a year, they started having how many that.
Oh, my God.
Well, at first they were doing like like a high times cup California, and then they
would do high times California.
And I remember the first year Denver had it and then it became like high times you'd
have California one once or twice a year.
It'd be California once or twice a year to be Denver.
And then you'd also start adding in Michigan.
And then it became like three times each, you know, each state each year.
And then it just became a shit show of, you know, however many a year I couldn't even
keep count anymore.
Well, that so that thing dramatically changed it from like going from sort of like a once
a year event.
Yeah. Right. That was fairly short to turning it into sort of like a circuit.
Yeah. Right. It was a circuit.
And so that being that it was a circuit, it morphed from instead of it just being sort
of like a collection of people gathering and a competition.
Yeah. It grew this little economy all around it as well.
So a lot of these cups, it would be a gray area in these states where you could go and
you could see a bunch of growers flower and you could buy directly from small breeders.
Right. And so it became a way for industry people to see each other.
Yeah. And to meet the public.
For sure. That really was what it became to be.
And for a while, I think it was pretty special.
And I think a lot of people thought it was pretty special.
Like not just not just on the business level, like a lot of us would make most of our
money for the year at Emerald Cup, but on a level where you get to see a lot of the
people that you grew up looking up to in this business.
And a lot of times you'd get to have dinner with them and you'd end up finding a peer
as opposed to someone you just look up to.
It was it was a wild time.
It was it was definitely different.
So then it became multi-layered in the sense that you could kind of turn some of those
events into what you wanted them to be.
If you were super into the competition, you could stay in those areas and focus on
that. Yeah.
You know, if you wanted to stay in the area where you were going to meet a bunch of
breeders and growers and industry types and various people that would gather, you could
just kind of use it to rub shoulders and network and chat and see people in person.
Yeah. It's where a lot of of clandestine people decided to start showing their faces.
Yeah, that's true, too.
You know, so it's where you could go and decide I'm going to punch Matt Riott.
Yeah. Yeah.
That is a popular choice to go to Emerald Cup and I want to punch Matt Riott in the
face. One thing I don't want to forget is for some of the old timers, the nugs and
jugs, stuff like that.
If you want to talk about some of that real quick.
Did we did we cover?
No, we haven't. We haven't mentioned it at all.
We kind of honestly, we just started talking about like the lack of of cultural impact
that the the cannabis cups from high times had hit by the early 2000s.
Yeah. And then we just started riffing on their replacements.
But we really didn't go into depth beyond that.
OK, let's hit let's hit nugs and jugs, because I think I think that's one of those
special small events that not a lot of people know about that existed.
And why don't you chat on it for a minute?
I wasn't around for that.
Nugs and jugs?
Yeah, you go ahead.
I mean, some of them, some of them we've almost done like halfway whole episodes on,
you know, like Ron's.
Yeah, those would be those would be considered like like harvest parties or whatever.
But there was a lot, you know, separate from like the Emerald Cups and the stuff that
was was was so blatant.
There is invite only cups.
Yeah. You know, there was invite only gatherings that had no cup.
It was just a way for dozens of of characters from our world to safely meet up and swap
stories and seeds and plants and clones and weed.
You know, it was where a lot of like little people's private interests started blending.
And it was an era, too, before.
It was before anyone was worried about personal rep because that was so fleeting and it
was still dangerous. So, yeah, it was the kind of thing where I'd go to a harvest
festival and this dude would give me, you know, a hundred seeds of Blue Widow by by
Sweet Two Three.
And this person would give me 50.
People were just excited that you wanted to take seeds of their work.
You know, so there was a lot of trading that went on amongst amateurs and enthusiasts and
stuff like that, but they were all the stuff we mentioned before.
There was a new wave of breeders that had followings.
Yeah, you know, people were all excited about Breeder Steve and and, you know, Brothers
Grimm and, you know, DJ Short with all the blueberry stuff right there was exploding
and, you know, all the white stuff was popular because it added frost and density to
almost anything you added it to.
And so, you know, and there was people going over to Switzerland and seeing Breeder Steve
or seeing Shanti. So nothing like a little in-person chat to make a fan base.
Right. Yeah, because that's what some of the cups became, too.
Right. It was you could go and meet your breeder and talk to them in person.
Yeah. And there would be lines.
I mean, you remember this is kind of late in the Emerald Cup, but our buddy Bodie was
famous for not being there.
Yeah. Yeah. Being there and not being there.
Yeah. And the first year that he had an actual booth, I mean, it was there was like a
seventy five yard line for a day and a half.
Yeah. You remember what he was doing that day, like the first time he showed up, he was
yeah, he was like getting in costumes and getting in his own line and like standing next
to people and like talking to them about his own stuff.
And they didn't even know they were talking to him and like walk up and sell them seats
real fast and they'd freak out.
Yeah, he would.
And he was clever.
I don't know if it was that year or the next year, but he brought he got this ahold of
this enormous stack of original nineteen eighty five Neville seed bank catalogs.
Yeah, that came from Clyde and it came from Clyde.
Yeah. Yeah. I just remember he walked around.
He had this big pack, you know, this big side bag.
And he just all do it all.
Every good friend got a couple of copies of Neville's first catalog that he put Santa
Claus. It was a yeah, Santa Claus did.
And probably some like weird tobacco seeds and some some crazy Indian sativas that he
had gathered or whatever.
Perfumes. There was perfumes.
Yeah. So that's just the kind of neat thing that you can do, because it was like it's
almost weird in the sense that all day long, you know, customers and fans get to hang out
and get to go meet the people and ask questions and buy seeds direct from that person and
know you're not getting scammed.
Yeah. And then after all that, in between all that at night, like a bunch of the friends
that are doing all that kind of stuff, get to actually see one another in person.
Yeah. And I mean, that's kind of what our parties formed out of was like we would all
be at the Emerald Cup.
We'd all be like headed there anyways.
And we would try to like make time for each other during the day when we're doing these
transactions. But we would get so bogged down, especially in the later years, that we
didn't have time to even talk to each other.
And we just we just be like, all right, next year, you know, whatever.
But so at the end, we were just like, fuck it.
We're just gonna have to set aside a full night for partying after where we can all hang
out away from everyone and just chill.
And I, you know, like it just naturally evolves sometimes that way.
And it's really fun.
You know, it was kind of like one of those old harvest harvest parties of old.
Yeah. You know, where a bunch of people bring a lot of nice weed and they set it on the
table and it's a bunch of chatting and eating and smoking and hanging out.
And, you know, there's there's cool parts about that, obviously, like with the Emerald
Cup and the High Times and a lot of the stuff that started happening on the West Coast,
it became again like it was in the beginning with the High Times festivals in
Amsterdam. It became again like a prestige money making important thing.
Yes. Yeah. And people would put a lot of effort into winning because they wanted to
advertise that they had won, you know, and all the shadiness came in.
Like there was there was a little remain nameless, but there was some clubs that would
just hold back the nicest weed and hash they bought all year.
Yeah. And then enter it under their own label.
Yeah, of course.
I mean, that's a move like how are you going to prove it wasn't grown by then you walk
into their thing and they've got all these medals of all the shit that they've won.
Look at all the good weed that's been in our store.
Look at this.
Yeah. You've got all these different medals, you know, and and, you know, it's
hashmakers winning a bunch of medals, flower makers.
It's like it's it's free hardware.
It like makes you maybe it makes it easier to sell in dispensaries.
Maybe it gets people asking about your seeds, maybe this and that.
And so as a result of that, it went from, you know, harvest festivals that like they're
totally non-economic way or just a way for a bunch of weed nerds to conduct business,
make friends and exchange.
Yeah. But then there's also this commerce aspect where it's like winning is a big deal.
Yeah. You know, and so that's where the that's where some bullshit comes in.
That's where room and, you know, we people aren't the most like, you know, there's
plenty of non-ethics that goes into something that's like unregulated.
And so there's lots of rumors about how real or how not certain cups have been over
time. Sure.
Yeah. I mean, that's going to happen.
You know, people that win want to tout their shit, people that don't win want to be
like it was fucking rigged.
This person's friends or family or related or this is happening or that's it up to that
that are they paid for it or there was money exchanged or you don't know how it works.
And, you know, there's there's probably some fire there with the smoke.
There's no point in talking about individual aspects, but there were so many of them and
there was so much money at stake.
It seems silly to think that there wasn't some, you know, it wasn't just purely
altruistic, double blind studies, dispassionately deciding which weed is best.
Absolutely. Yeah.
Definitely not double blinded any of these events, even when you try.
And I told you about this earlier.
I want to say which event it was, but there was an event me and another person spent
making. It was originally going to be called the Breeders Cup and we were just going to
invite breeders. And the idea was breeders had to enter in their own weed that they grew.
But it was still there's still an honor principle involved with that.
Right. Like they just had to present it.
You know, that that idea was expanded on and taken for another cup.
And I went to that event and it seemed cool and everything, you know, everybody was
chilling. And there was one thing nobody accounted for with all these rules that we
thought we had accounted for everything.
Someone brought a green jar that was green glass and clear.
And any time that jar was going around to the different tables, they always knew where
it was and it was supposed to be double blind.
So nobody knew whose weed was which.
Right. Like suppose that or nobody had a green jar.
Exactly. And when it came by your when your own weed came by and you knew it was your
own weed, you had the honor system saying, hey, this is mine.
I'm not going to vote on it. However, suppliers of green jars voted on green jar.
You know, it was a lot of shit like that.
So even when there's things you can't account for and I don't think that they brought
the green jar there just to like purposely do that.
It just is something that that organically happened.
And it was like, wait, wait a minute.
We have an advantage here.
We know which one's ours.
And green jar won the cup.
I mean, there was one.
There was a lot of money to be made in that era.
I remember like the whole like DNA Crockett partnership.
There were certain years of Emerald Cup on Friday and Saturday where they would have
like a four way booth.
Yeah, they would just have a line spidering off it in every direction.
Yeah. And everybody was after Tangy and Double Banana Tangy and this and that and
everything else. And, you know, but I mean, it was like, you know, there was certain if
you were a hot seed company leading into that show.
Yeah. It could be a huge windfall.
I mean, for example, like with what you're saying right now, during those years, the
DNA and Crockett entered that stuff.
I was laying out tons of Calio and Banana OG stuff.
In fact, Banana OG was the basis for most of my breeding program during that time.
And it didn't matter because I didn't have the prestige.
I didn't have any of that like Crockett.
Nobody knew who the hell Crockett was before they popped up.
Nobody. But the second DNA picked them up to the top because it was in all the high
times magazines. And all of a sudden they were saying, well, we have this banana.
Oh, it's in high times.
And it just flew.
And you're not even kidding. Like there were lines out.
It had always been available ever since Organ Kid had put it out.
Someone was releasing Banana OG something ever since that point.
But it was as if it had never existed before the second entered high times and the hype
had struck.
Well, I also think to tie into like the marketing and the push aspect of things.
I do think they were smart in the sense that they in the two fifteen era, they grew
green. They grew some greenhouses of their work.
Yeah. And then they got professional photographers to come in and just take absolutely
gorgeous shots of their weed.
Yeah. You know, and some of their weed was very photogenic, you know, and you couldn't
tell who was going to get you high, obviously, or anything like that.
But like Instagram.
Yeah, they they but they drove sales with a lot of ad copy.
I mean, Instagram, you know, weed people weren't ready to be marketed to.
Yeah, a lot of the popularity and weed used to happen organically and in small groups
and spreading from there.
Yeah. We talk about this ad nauseum every episode.
It's like that's another example of it, right, is that is that, you know, I mean, when
I'll give another example, you know, when when Skittles was hard to get.
And so the vast majority of people that was going to get after it could only get hybrids.
You know, you take somebody that had it like dying breed seeds at the time or something.
And they would they would have a huge line for that first two days of Emerald Cup, all
selling 300 to 500 dollar packs, mostly 500 of red seeds.
Yep. Out the door just like bam.
Crazy because people were after it.
So like Matt mentioned, you know, if you marketed your stuff the right way, a few of
those events could take care of you for the whole year.
Yeah, definitely.
It was big. It was big.
And so it became so much more than like the the winning of the Cups was important for
sort of bragging rights and a different way to market.
But the other part of it was just sort of this gray area, seed swap, every kind of act.
All you had to do was buy a booth and have a few permits and you could do all kinds of
crazy sales. Now you have to since 2018, you have to be licensed.
It has to be through dispos.
It's far more regulated and controlled.
But in the era that Matt is talking about fondly, it literally was sort of like a weed
swap meet. Open air cowboy market.
It was fun sharing.
You know, here's a joint.
Here's a dab. Talk about this.
Oh, I've got six different eight different jars of my different strains.
You want to smell the line I'm selling?
I could grab a moment by their fucking jacket and drag them across the floor.
Nobody gives a shit.
Yeah, well, we used to I mean, Matt and I actually used to joke that we could have like
charity boxing matches at Emerald at Emerald Cup where everyone could settle all their
beefs or not or make up, you know?
Yeah. Oh, you just disappeared.
Can you hear me still? I can hear you.
Your picture went kaput.
Yeah, I don't know why it went kaput.
So right here is selected.
But let me see what's going on.
That's right. Go ahead. Keep going.
But yeah, anyway, so Emerald Cup and those and some of those high times, especially in
Southern California for crews down there, it became a place to regularly see other people.
It became a place where growers and seed makers and various industry people could meet up.
Now it's like I'm split.
No, you're right.
Anyway, they in my opinion, you know, a lot of people went and it was sort of totally
irrelevant that there was a competition going on.
You know, they went to just they went to get seeds or they went to meet certain people or
they went to see and be seen or just, you know, be able to walk around and see what who
was developing. There he's back.
There we go. Booths, all kinds of stuff.
And so there was a very cool, I would say, like raw capitalistic freedom to it.
Yeah, it was it was something special.
And that era is not here anymore.
But also, you know, what else is interesting is we could bring something up that I find
kind of cool is that the first all the first cups, when we first started getting like real
testing, imperfect as it may be.
I remember there was only four or five strains that tested in the high 20s.
OK. Right.
Like literally it was like there was a couple examples of Chem 91.
There was a strawberry cough.
There was a head. Huh?
There was a sense you start since you start in a headband.
That was basically it.
Yeah. Right. For the first five or six years that there was testing with cups.
Yeah. And then we started to see test creep.
Where all these numbers and all these terpenes and all these THC percentages started
climbing and we used to joke that, you know, there was one or two things in the 30
percent club. Yeah.
And then fast forward five years and there's dozens of things in the 30 percent club.
Yeah. And, you know, and people started breeding by numbers.
Because they wanted to show high numbers in the dispensary and they wanted to show high
numbers in the competition.
Yeah, I watched someone claim 50 percent the other day on the reg, so it's still
happening. I mean, I would even say I don't know about people listening or whatever, but
for my strangely for me, I would say that the not all of it, but the vast majority of
my favorite weed tends to come in between 18 and 25 percent.
Yeah. I don't know why.
There's some exceptions, but a lot of it falls in that range.
And I find a lot of the 30 percent club to have boring and not very long lasting
highs. Yeah.
You know, despite me, I mean, maybe they're potent in the sense or maybe they wash
well, you know, and they yield well.
But I don't find that like, you know, I don't think that all these 30 percenters plus
are revolutionizing cannabis and making these older, lower, weaker things irrelevant.
It just reminds me of the old article from 1982.
And I want to say it was Arthur Connoisseur, who I think is someone I'm not going to
say who because he's never publicly said who he is.
But he was referring to in 1982 to ban the indica.
He felt that the indica was going to ruin cannabis and that it was going to dumb down
good weed and indicate the Afghanis, Pakistanis tend to be what shot that that
that percentage spike up.
So. I mean, maybe they were just Nostradamus, you know.
Well, I think it's interesting.
We've chatted about that before, too.
But yeah, most of the sativas they were smoking were bred for smoking flour.
Yeah. And indica's were bred for harvesting resin.
Hashes and the and the two things are very different.
You know, they didn't care about burnability with with Afghani or Pakistani.
They didn't care about like they cared about the hatch.
Yeah. The flower was just a carrier.
And so I think a lot of I think a lot of that stuff got worked into weed due to, you
know, police pressure.
Yeah. Flowering times in door.
And it does seem there was a lot of 70s and early 80s heads that did not like the
effects that the indica's were bringing to the game.
Yeah. They appreciated the earlier flowering times and the chunkiness and the
frostiness. But as far as the point of smoking weed, how they enjoyed smoking it in
joints. Yeah.
A lot of them felt like it was kind of inferior.
I think a lot of those dudes like nowadays smoking a thing like cookies would just
be that, you know, if you took that to them in that time and brought it to them, they
would have told you motherfuckers.
You know, I really do think they would think that because now we have a heavily inbred
Kush style plant that is, you know, very, very narrow in the type of high, in my
opinion, that it gets.
Yeah, I mean, everybody responds a bit differently, but, you know, people know that I
don't I don't reach for cookie jars too often as far as like my go to's as far as what
affects me pretty well.
But I also say that, you know, I grew up and I'm not that young anymore.
I grew up in an era where like the pure sativa era was long gone.
Yeah. We were well into the mixed hybrids era.
And there's a lot of tempting things about Afghan.
Yeah. You know, you know, it's you're trying to keep, you know, a lot of times a lot of
those early breeders like Neville and stuff, they were trying to add the structure and the
frost and the density from the Afghan, but keep the flavor and the the high effect from
the sativa. And in fact, that's why a bunch of their Afghan breeding material was bland
and low terps and boring.
Yeah. Right.
Yeah. That's what it sounds like.
I wanted. Yeah. They picked intentionally low terpene plants to breed with sometimes.
Yeah. When they wanted the terpenes and the and the flavors to shine from the other side
of the hybrid through.
Yeah. Right.
So it was like a strategy.
Yeah, that's what it sounded like.
I don't want to expand on it yet.
I'll let someone else expand on it.
When we do that interview at some later date.
But yeah, I mean, it's one thing that's very cool is that we've done whole shows on
specific breeders, mostly because in the era that they came out, there was so few of
them, a lot of them dominated the game.
Yeah. And even in the era we just talked about with the Cubs, there was really not that
many people in competition with one another.
No, not really.
When it came to who is breeding the actual stuff that was supposedly winning these Cubs.
Yeah. You know, it's like that era, the NBA or whatever, where it's like there was like,
you know, 12 teams or something, you know, where like there wasn't that much competition
amongst each other, but the competition was more concentrated.
And then the American Cubs really made it a democracy.
Yeah. I don't think most people, you know, Matt, CSI, you know, Shaw, you know, you
could Swamp Boys.
You go through a whole list of people that like a lot of people got introduced to their
stuff by walking past their fucking booth.
Yeah. He's my friend.
But what literally just but just just, you know, there's a banner.
Yeah. You're pushing through the crowd and then, oh, there's Matt Riott.
Yeah. You know, all that blueberry thing looks pretty.
Yeah. They usually didn't see me.
I was kind of small, so I'm usually tucked behind.
They just look behind, sharing a booth of 20 people.
And I'd be down in there somewhere.
There's Matt waving up from underneath.
Yeah. Yeah.
Three apples high.
Given him a wave.
Matt's actually standing that that seat is just it's a fake back.
Yeah, it is a fake backseat.
I'm standing.
But yeah, I mean, it's it was, you know, a lot of times I wouldn't even want to bug my
friends who had booths because people would wait all year to go talk to Caleb.
Yeah. You know, they had a whole list of things that they wanted from him and they
wanted to ask him questions and like whittle it down.
Yeah. Same with you.
Same with you know, there was a lot of you could buy a booth and oh, you sell seeds, you
sell hash, you sell tincture, you sell extract, you sell, you know, lozenges or
edibles or any like shit like that.
You could go meet a bunch of customers and and make some loot.
Yeah. I mean, my favorite, my favorite Emerald Cup story.
And I've told this to a bunch of people and you probably get a kick out of it.
You probably heard it a million times.
But I was at Emerald Cup and this guy had emailed me beforehand and I didn't really
know him too well. But we had talked back and forth to the email and asked me to put
aside some clockwork orange seeds for him and a few other things, but mostly that.
And he came up to my booth and he he handed me this notepad and said it had written on
it. Hi, I'm, you know, whoever it was.
And I, you know, this is what I came to get, you know, and I realized, oh, he's deaf and
mute or something like, OK.
And I, you know, wrote down what he got and, you know, it's to the exchange.
He's like, do I get a discount?
And I'm like, oh, yeah, I get it.
Of course. Like, yeah.
So here's a discount. And so he walks away and he comes back or no, no.
Before he walks away, he goes, thank you.
And walks off and I'm like, this fucking guy, what the hell just happened?
And then he comes back and he asked me, so do you want me to put the discount in the
fire fund or do you want it back?
So I put it in the fire fund that ended up being Denali.
That's how I met Denali.
Really? Yeah.
So I never forgot from that, from that experience out of meeting in those days, like
you would meet thousands of people and it was really hard to have a memory.
But that was like one of those ones that stood out because someone did something
fucking crazy.
Yeah, I mean, it was a it's it was a big thing.
It was cool in that I like that kind of like disorganized chaos capitalism.
Yeah. You know, I think.
Sadly, legalization has stripped a lot of that like organic.
There's a lot of people that can't have a booth there anymore.
I won't even attend it anymore and not I don't say that other people shouldn't.
I just I don't have a purpose for going anymore.
Now, I'm not involved in the same community.
Those people are involved and they're going to that with their licenses and that kind
of shit. So I just don't.
So, yeah. So obviously they're right there.
It's split the weed community.
Yeah, a lot of people, a lot of the people that you would want to go and see, you
know, people and people would use I.G.
and other things and they would find out, oh, Matt or Caleb or this person, they're
going to this event. They're going to be at Emerald Cup.
They're going to be at this high times.
I'm going to plan and go see them.
Yeah. You know, and people would come with specific plans, especially Emerald Cup,
because it was in December and back then people usually had harvest money burning in
their pocket. And it was an era where a lot of people grew seed outdoor because they
wanted individual good sized plants.
You know, that drove a lot of sales, too.
Yeah, that was a major aspect of it.
There was a lot of twenty five to fifty plant victory gardens that they wanted to grow
from seed because it was generally accepted you could get a bigger and more vigorous
plant from seed than clone.
So if you were doing a limited number of plants growing from seed, you could probably get
more off that twenty five than you could if it was a clone plant.
Yeah. If you pick the right strains and you went in the right direction.
That was the other cool thing about Emerald Cup was that it was a lot of it was a good
time to get a lot of different samples of different things I had released that past year
from different growers that year who had grown it and they bring me samples.
So I go home with shit loads of samples of my different strains grown in all these
different environments. So there was just so much unique to that time.
And I don't know with legalization if there's ever going to be a time where everybody can
enjoy that unless they're multimillionaires can afford licenses and all the other stuff.
I just don't know if that'll happen again.
You know, there's an old there's an old Grateful Dead saying, like, don't be sad.
It's gone. Be glad you were there.
And because, you know, when we were talking about all these first cups in the 90s and
stuff like having that kind of open swap meet where thousands of potheads and growers and
seed makers and hash makers and all that could mix and mingle and talk about their craft
was unthinkable back then.
Yeah. You know, it was really unthinkable back then.
I mean, I mentioned it before.
There are definitely people that believe that there was a lot of DEA and other agencies
scoping at a lot of those first cups.
I believe it. And I was just thinking now, I don't know if you could do it again, even if
you like found a way to run a black market one with all the frickin snitches in our scene
like they're just so abundant.
Our scene doesn't police itself for that anymore.
It's just a two different of a time to pull it off.
I really don't think it'll work.
I think you could talk probably about like certain areas of music or this or that or
whatever, where there's certain things that develop organically and they're only there
while that persists.
And then when you lose it, it's it shifts and it's not the same as it was.
Yeah. And I think, you know, I think in addition to, you know, cups became really a way
for because by the time that a lot of these big cups were happening again, people were
willing to show their faces and show up.
People were willing to associate themselves with I grew this and I have this and I'm
bringing pounds of weed.
Yeah. And I'm going to keep it in my booth and I'm not going to be arrested.
Yeah. I remember even being sketched one of the first times when they when Tim first
moved it, because I used to go to it up in in Mendo when it was thrown up there and it
was much smaller. And I remember I got there on a Saturday the the first year it was in
Santa Rosa. Yeah.
And I was walking up to the front door and there was this dude that was like all waddling
past me and he was all fucking happy as he was happy as can be.
And he had like a box full of plants that, you know, and it's like sticking out the top
and he's like walking to his car.
And I had this moment of like, you know, of just having been so secret for so long.
I was like, man, things are really changing.
Yeah. Yeah.
You know, and then you walk in, right.
And all of a sudden you're like, especially from someone who grew up in an era where
like plant counts are very important.
Right. And, you know, 100 could be a five year, you know, mandatory minimum federal
sentence and this and that.
Then you walk into these things and there was an era where there was clone sellers that
had like eight thousand cuttings for sale.
Yeah. Just racks, racks of them, racks of rooted cuttings.
And you were like, whoa, there.
You know what? I remember one year I was at a booth with a nursery and I was selling
seeds. But everybody thought that the clones behind me were my stuff.
And right.
I remember that caused so much chaos because everybody's like, yeah, can I get a clone
of that? And that it's yours, right?
It's on this list.
Oh, my God.
That comment pinned, you know, when I lived in Chicago, I used to make friends that had
a totally clean lifestyle, drive me to the grocery store.
Yeah. Because of their license plate.
You know?
Yeah. Yeah.
I knew a dude who would wear fucking wigs and all kinds of costumes on the way to the
grocery store. And it wasn't a few cars.
Yeah. It wasn't like boxes of clones was anything weird or we hadn't been doing that
among our friends for a while.
It was just like you were walking down the sidewalk in Santa Rosa.
It's a big fairground for people that don't know.
It's a massive fairground.
You're just like out there, like right in the open in the most open sidewalk and
everything. It's like, you know, tons of and there's cotton like you're just walking all
happily down the street with a bunch of rooted plants.
And I was like, oh.
Weird. Yeah, you know, weird.
Yeah. You expect that.
OK. And then you go in there and you're like, man, people have tons of dabs, tons, tons
of jars, tons of clones, all kinds of stuff that if it was like in your car and you got
pulled over, it would might might be a mess.
Yeah. I see.
Even if you were fully like medical and legitimate and went to clubs and all that type
of it would still be a mess.
But it was like an accepted gray area, like you were on base.
Yeah, right. Depending on where you live, like I see dudes come to my city and like
they'll be smoking a joint on the street like it's nothing because they think it's
California and you're cool.
And this is just there's still hot places in California where if you do that, you're
going to get nailed so fast and they don't give a fuck if you have a license or any of
that. They let you go to court and figure it out.
So, yeah, that that I it was it is cool in the sense that there was like an equilibrium
at that time. So anytime you could feel free and open and safe in our community is a
blessing. Yeah, that's for sure.
Because it wasn't like that for a long time.
And so I think I would say that the Emerald Cup itself probably turned into part part
business, part economic, part award and then a big family gathering.
Yeah. Where all these people would come in from all over the place, from Colorado, from
Washington, from Humboldt, from Mendo, from the Bay, from L.A.
and mingle.
Yeah. You know, and all that.
And, you know, cannabis has not really been able to have conventions.
No, I mean, not not at that point, no.
No. So it sort of doubled it.
It's sort of like did all these different duties.
You know, and then it changed, too, because most of the time the shit that was winning,
it wasn't even that easy to go out and get those and figure out like it wasn't the same
like it was from Greenhouse.
No, you know, it was like, oh, this person won with sugary from some spot in Laytonville.
Yeah. I don't know how to get that weed.
Yeah. A lot of the times it was like that early on.
I think over time it did turn into more of only things winning that you could buy seeds
of because that is where the money was directed.
It definitely got more like that at the end of the Cubs.
Yeah. I mean, everything, you know, everything that's wild and free and unregulated
eventually loses some of the wildness and they start acting rationally in terms of money
and it morphs into different things.
And then, you know, it becomes what the regulations and the rules allow.
Yeah. Now it's sort of like a cooler.
And it's like a it's like an industry meet.
Yeah. Much more so than like a gathering, like a bunch of important people don't even go
anymore. To me, I think it's more like a M.J.
BizCon, and I don't see a lot of difference.
Like, I mean, maybe they still do awards.
I think they have a separate awards event.
They moved it to L.A., too, which is even funnier because one of the things that was cool
about Emerald Cup was that it started in Mendo.
So it was done by people from the triangle and old growers from the triangle.
And it was a big family gathering.
And then even when it moved to Santa Rosa, it was still NorCal.
Yeah. Sonoma County is is very much still, you know, the very southern tip of that bubble.
You know, but once it's in L.A.
and it's in a theater and it's awards, I mean, I get it there.
They're moving with the industry trends.
It's not going to be what it was.
So is this Emerald Cup that everybody's talking about going to going to be in L.A.
or Santa Rosa? It's now.
Is it going right now?
Now, right now.
Yeah. Where?
This week in L.A.? In Santa Rosa.
OK, that's why I didn't.
They call it they call it.
I believe it's like they call it the Emerald Ball now.
I got some fucking Emerald Balls for him.
You know, and then I do believe they have like a separate ceremony in L.A.
Yeah, but it got a little convoluted with covid for a few years there
and not being able to have those kind of events.
And then they did a separate event in L.A. last year.
So I don't know exactly how they're going to shake it all out.
Yeah, but for a minute, it seemed like they were going to abandon NorCal for L.A.,
which was going to be kind of shitty.
But it does appear that they're still throwing a party up there.
How weird is it?
And I'll leave names out that the owner of Emerald Cup
was giving awards to his daughter's soon to be husband
and smashing all the cups with it.
Was that ever heavily debated or talked about?
I mean, there's not.
As we talked about in the beginning, we were trying to avoid specific instances
because, you know, you don't want to battle over certain ground.
But certainly there's whenever there's money and prestige.
Right. And all that stuff on the reputation on the line.
Economics on the line.
That's why people debate whether how legitimate any cup could be.
And then there's people to get a little bit of inside information
and decide that seems kind of sketchy.
And lots of awards, family members and close friends can't participate.
Yeah. But that's not true of cannabis awards.
Apparently not. It is definitely not for some.
Yeah. You know, and you know, and so, you know, doesn't it does.
You know, there's nepotistic things that occur.
Certainly. And there's friendships and there's beefs
and there's in crowds and out crowds and weed.
And, you know, I don't even know how blind some of the blind stuff is.
Yeah. And then even if it is blind, you have a group of people
and it's just their expression of prejudices.
Yeah. And even even with all that, you're still the honor system
saying this is this strain I'm presenting you.
I mean, I'm I'm pretty sure without I'm not going to get into specifics,
but I'm pretty sure there was at times some some weed that that was winning
quite a bit that was not very pretty.
That was entered into the sungrown categories and stuff like that.
That was grown underneath multiple nice indoor light,
like supplemental indoor lighting.
Yeah. Like you have a little section that you're growing your stuff.
You're going to enter and it's in the greenhouse and it's got the sun hitting it.
But it's also got ceramics and some LEDs and some this and some that.
And it gets extra special sauce.
And yeah, it's sun grown.
And then it comes out looking like crazy and all of a sudden it's winning.
And, you know, because people we come from a culture that bends or ignores rules.
Yeah. I mean, people will do anything to win.
Yeah. Especially when maybe if you win, you know, that that next year
you find it way easier to move a lot of your product for higher pricing
and dispensaries that show.
And then that next year, because you won and all your stuff was in dispensaries
and a bunch of people smoked it.
You have a crazy line out your booth for your hybrids.
Yep. So there was multiple.
There was multiple arcs like that where people won.
And then the economic interest was great for them for two or three years after that.
There was reverberations. Mm hmm.
So, of course, there's going to be that kind of stuff.
Always. Always.
You know, that's just I just don't think people know.
You know, that's the thing.
Like there's a there's always the the announcements.
There's always, you know, like stuff that's surface level.
And then there's the stuff that like people behind the scenes know.
And then there's stuff that people in certain groups that, you know,
are family, friends of certain people who are like.
How did that fly?
I thought, I guess, you know, it just does.
And it's not just one specific cup.
It's a lot of them. It's all of them.
And like I said, even with the one that I helped organize
and I helped plan the roles for, there were things that we couldn't
even possibly conceive of a green jar like.
We really thought we had it all nailed out, but there's always ways.
Yeah, we've had we've had friends that have that have judged various things
and they've seen things that they didn't think were the greatest,
you know, behind the scenes.
And, you know, there's there's a lot of pressure now.
I think I think a lot of those cups, they were making so much money
renting out expensive, small amounts of booth space to all of you guys.
Yeah. That just just throwing them was highly profitable for them.
They were making millions of just the booth space.
So, you know, it was. Yeah.
So, you know, there was there was that there was a desire to throw more
and more and more of them. Right.
And now with all the rules and regulations and all that other types of stuff,
it's taken a lot of the soul out of it.
And it's also just the competition of people that can afford licenses.
Yeah. And there's one more thing I want to talk about before we I mean, we're getting
OK, is judging.
And, you know, I talked about it briefly in the gone year part,
you know, when they were talking about how they select their judges or whatnot.
I noticed that a lot of times at even some of these prestigious events.
Judging isn't necessarily based on the most
skilled people in the room at assessing cannabis.
In fact, most often that is not the case when it comes to judging.
There are a lot of times it's people paying.
They pay for their judges pass or they're they pay for their judges
kit where they get all kinds of extracts or buds.
And it's very hard for me to understand someone that is new to cannabis
being able to have a qualified nose.
Any of it, really.
I mean, what are you basing your whole or, you know, it's it's another aspect, too,
where it's like it might be just a collection of industry people.
And people associated with the people throwing the event. Yeah.
You know, and in some cases you're like, oh, here's a random assortment
of different kinds of stoners. It's fair.
The fact that you can buy your way in, though, blows my mind, blows my mind.
And that's for a lot of these big extracts cups to like just blow
by your way into judge.
So I'm going to put something in and let some random ass kid
that may have smoked twice in his life judge.
It doesn't make any sense.
That's the thing.
It's like it's totally unregulated and there's no penalties
and there's no outside body governing any of it.
Yeah. So it's all the honor system.
And like you said,
I mean, that's part of the reason why we do these shows is like
because there's a bunch of stuff we talk about all the time that isn't well known.
Yeah. You know, a lot of people.
Part of the reason why the the cups thing works so well
is because for a lot of smokers, they're just like, oh, my God,
that must be some of the best shit out there.
Yeah. And they don't have the nuance to it.
You know, yeah, they don't know the context.
Yeah, exactly. They don't have the context.
They don't they don't know the characters involved personally or whatever, you know.
And it's not to say that like it's all corrupt or whatever all the time.
It's just people have their belief systems
and they're influenced by what they like and what they don't like.
And, you know, and and then, you know, there's there's.
It's like in food, like anything that doesn't have a legal definition, like natural.
Yeah, it doesn't actually have a real meaning.
It's an advertising meeting.
Yeah, so I went over that one.
Yeah. So, you know, so so cannabis judging right now is absolutely subjective.
Yeah, very much so.
And like I said, to the point of where
calling it judging may be a little stretch in a nice way of putting it.
The other part of it is, let's say that you're totally advanced
and that you are a Titan in your field and all kinds of people respect you,
you know, and, you know, let's just you know, and you're you're in the hash game
or whatever, and everybody loves the hash you make and you're really good at it
and you have a fine nose for it, right?
Mm hmm. And you're definitely one of the people that could be judging.
Sure. And then you're smoking 20 dabs in five in two hours.
Yeah. Yeah. Like the effect of each individual dab
and like what it does to you and how it makes you feel.
Or even if you're smoking 20 joints in the course of a few hours of different weed
and you're layering all those effects and highs on top of each other.
It's not like you're waking up in the morning smoking a joint of this.
Going about your business and really getting a sense for what that one thing does.
Yeah. You know, so unless there are some places that are like,
you know, so unless there are some places that give you samples ahead of time
and have you take a bunch of notes, but there are there's also like
just back to back to back to back to back to back.
Yeah. Right. And then how well can you judge?
Typically, when I smoke 10 or 15 kinds of weed that I don't smoke on a daily basis,
I get ripped. Yeah.
It just all adds up.
Yeah. Yeah. It's just what happens.
I smoke a bunch of my friends weed, you know, and it's weed that I don't
smoke very often and it's all rapid fire and I'm joint after joint after joint.
Yeah. You know, I might not be the best judge that day.
Yeah. You know, I don't know if you don't like the way that I matched my
my my clothing to this lovely chair behind me.
I think it's pretty good. You did a good job matching it.
You can. Yeah, I went through, you know, there was a huge debate in my prep team
on, you know, the designers that you have sponsoring you.
I know it's a big wide choice in your wardrobe.
It's all the it really does.
It accents all my face makeup, you know, and it gives me that natural tone that I'm after.
It's good. It's working well for you, son.
So. So, yeah, I mean, so we're at one minute or I'm sorry, one hour, 23 minutes.
We'll probably cut this one a little bit short, but I wanted to
let everybody know we're going to be doing the show at a different time.
Now, I mentioned briefly on Instagram, we're going to start doing the shows on Saturdays
after the show is the last one on Fridays.
We're going to start doing it Saturdays at one p.m.
Pacific Standard or whatever time Pacific one p.m.
Pacific Pacific time. Yeah. Yeah.
So that's where the show is going to be moving to.
We were we were kind of looking at where everyone like YouTube gives you those
like statistics, and that seems to be where everybody is watching at a good time.
And we've noticed that people say like they prefer to watch it on Saturdays
in their room.
And I know this is late for the East Coast and especially for some of our
across the country people and not just back and forth across the country all the time now.
And he's he's he's getting old.
He's getting a little old in his age.
We worry about him.
We worry about him staying up too late.
So, yeah. Is there anything else you wanted to get in on this topic?
I mean, I I think you could just simply say that,
you know, cups are a little bit of humanity.
You know, there's community.
There's meeting with people of similar interests.
Yeah. There's bringing different groups together that might not be
that might not have been friends or met before.
There was a lot of positives to the different eras of the cups.
Yeah. And then obviously, but you get rap and you get money and you get
economics involved and then you get all the shadiness and the backhanded deals
and like the how can I lock in money for me?
And those kind of things go hand in hand.
So when you hear us talking about all of the ways that we fall short
on a perfectly ideal cup, it doesn't mean that there's not value.
To going and seeing folks and doing all that type of thing,
it just changes, you know, people's reasons for going change.
Yeah. You know, and over the years, they've the whole existence
of reason for them existing have changed.
Yeah. And I mean, I think some because they've happened for long enough now,
some of the excitement of just being able to go and meet a bunch of people
and put faces to names.
Yeah. You know, that might just be an Internet handle
or might just be someone you knew from my G or whatever.
But then you get to spend a few hours with them and break bread or whatever
because you met at the cup and get baked and exchange some cool shit.
Yeah. That was a neat aspect for a while.
It's become more common now, so it's not as exciting.
But in the beginning,
it was it felt pretty special for a good long time.
It did. And you got to meet some of the most amazing people
that you could meet in the industry at one point.
So for all those reasons, I have mostly positive memories of it.
I will say something funny, though, and this isn't going to knock anybody.
But I remember going to the cup and I thought to myself,
especially when it was in Santa Rosa, I'm like, we are the worst dress group of people.
There is this dude and he looks like he went to go transplant,
you know, in his car, hearts in his ripped shirt that day and then sweated
and then rolled down the dirt hill and then drove to the cup.
Yeah. But in his hand, he's got like a fifteen thousand dollar dab.
Yeah. Right. Right. And a really nice fanny pack, you know.
And so, yeah, all that person looks homeless,
except for they're carrying around this like foot tall piece of glass.
That's like worth a small car.
Yeah. Worth more than my life.
You know, and so there was just there was just people that like,
you know what you what you put your money.
There was like well-dressed, snazzy people there with nice watches and this and that.
There were straight hill hippies with zero ink.
Like I don't even have clean clothes.
Yeah. But I have all this cool weed shit, you know, and I don't care.
And so it brought together very disparate groups of weed people.
Yeah. Watch out for that dude walking around pretending to be deaf and dumb to watch out for him.
Yeah. Yeah. He's a tricky old man.
Gawk, gawk, dude. Perched skirt from up north, cut upon it.
All right. So anything else, dude?
Want to let.
Oh, I mean, just that we're going to move to the afternoon on Saturday, like Matt said.
We hope it's a better time for everybody.
And, you know, it might be easier to give us that than your Friday night,
especially for people on the East Coast.
So people's lives in general.
Yeah. I don't know what that is, but and, you know, everyone's at the Emerald Cup
this weekend, probably. So enjoy yourselves
and have a good week, everyone.
Yeah. Cheers.
Who?
Dang, man, I just got that skunk.
What?
I just got that skunk.
Where else?
Burps, burps, burps, burps, burps, burps.
It's some T.H.C.
Whoa, dude, I'm sorry, dude.
I'm tripping, but.
