Breeders Syndicate Update. Not only is our merch store up at SyndicateGear.com
but all episodes will remain free. But what we need from you is interaction. If
you're watching the show for your first time, kick back and enjoy it. If you like
the show, feel free to like it. But if it's your second viewing, we ask a gentle
person's agreement that you click the subscribe button. It costs you nothing,
but it helps us tremendously with the sneaky YouTube algorithm. Leaving
comments, telling not so his voice lulls you into a trance works as well. We hope
you take the time to do this. We try to put out the best possible shows for you
we can and want to build this community. Thanks again from all of us at the
Breeders Syndicate family. Welcome to Breeders Syndicate 2.0, where we explore
the history of a clandestine scene. Researching everything from cannabis
strain history, old smuggling tales from the first-person perspective, to breeding
science and news on current subculture. I'm your host Matthew and I'll
occasionally be joined by my homie NotSoDog, breeder and grower from
Mendocino, to speak on these subjects and sometimes interview other
participants. Our goal is to document this history before it's written by
corporations and others who just weren't there. Let's start righting some wrongs.
Welcome to the underground. Welcome everyone, I'm Matthew. This is Brendan
from Zomia Collective. This is the Breeders Syndicate and today we're gonna
be talking about land races, what's been going on in Thailand, the current
political climate, and kind of what Zomia Collective is all about. First off, like I
said, this is Brendan from Zomia Collective. It's a very special group out
in Thailand and I've been speaking with him lately about what's going on out
there and just been totally blown away. Fascinated, interested. It's very rare in
our community where I run into someone where I feel like their passion is at
the true fervor level that mine is or a lot of my friends are, where it's just
like this is what we live to do. I feel like Brendan is one of those.
Welcome Brendan, it's nice to meet you man. Thank you. It's a pleasure to
be here, honestly. When you're talking about passion, that's what
it's all about. That's what we live for here. Yeah, I can tell.
From the type of political activities you've gotten yourself into and the works
you do for social change, it's very, very humbling to watch from a
person way over here. It's what I'd love to be doing. So, mad props. Tell me a
little bit about Zomia. Tell me what Zomia is in the first place.
Well, Zomia is a collective. It's a project that's working on long-term
land-raise conservation in Southeast Asia. But fundamentally, it's much more
than that. It's a social movement. It's a concept in political philosophy and
anthropology that's sort of grounded in an understanding of the indigenous
people of the hill tracks of Southeast Asia. It's a sort of non-jurisdictional
entity which comprises about a hundred million people speaking so many
different languages, all of whom are united in a sort of a refusal to partake
in the state, in paying taxes, in being conscripted, and instead, you know, live
in the hills away from everybody else. One of the things that unites the region
is the choice of crops, namely cannabis. So, with a foundation in political
activism, which we can get into if you want, a sort of nucleus of cannabis
breeders, growers, village elders, and tribal communities formed into a
collective with this purpose of preservation, the land-raise cannabis in
Southeast Asia, perhaps even beyond. That's amazing. Can you tell me what kind
of pushed you in this direction? Where did you grow up? What got you into
the Southeast Asia climate? Stuff like that.
Personally, I'm Basque from the Basque country, but I grew up in Scotland.
And that was kind of where me and Matthew were talking, kind of a little bit, the
sort of train spotting style of things. You know, we were buying cannabis from
pretty sketchy places from a pretty young age. And I mean, for those who know,
you know what the scene's all about. And when you catch that bug, and especially
for us, we were really lucky to get stuff like Goldstamp Mazar, Goldfield,
like Black Afghan. Despite being in a really northern, remote location, we did
benefit from some of the sort of the small-scale smugglers before the war on
terror and the changes in the airports, you know, sort of killed that. And from
then, it was, you know, at 16, I came out to India and into Southeast Asia and
ended up never leaving. You know, a lot of my formative experiences were there.
I fell into the wine industry, strangely enough, as a sort of, you know,
francophone in Southeast Asia. But, you know, there's this kind of, there's this,
I guess it's racism, I suppose, where the, or internalized racism, I don't know
how you want to describe it. But there's the need for like a token French guy to
sell wine in the fancy restaurants. And it doesn't matter whether he's Basque or
actually French or not, you know, close enough, you know. And so, as a lover of,
you know, good taste and tiroir and everything else, I always had a bit of
chip on my shoulder about good food sort of being so expensive. And, you know, this
was my way to be able to taste what I wanted to taste and to talk with chefs and
that kind of stuff. And it was great, but I also, it was great, but it was also
terrible. And I go very disillusioned. And so, when the opportunity to sort of bring
the structure of sommelier in particular, to the cannabis world came about, I jumped
on it because it was, you know, the culmination. And honestly, a 16 year old me
wouldn't have believed it, you know, it's just a dream come true, right? Yeah,
absolutely. And so, basically lucky enough to be working in restaurants with a budget
high enough to pay for traveling in terms of R&D. And pre-COVID, a lot of traveling,
you know, looking for indigenous or traditional fermented beverages for food
pairings, led me and my team to be in contact with a lot of communities who were also
growing cannabis. And in the course of, you know, spending time in these communities,
learning how they ferment different grains, cereals, pulses, etc. into alcohol and
drinks, the opportunity came about to sort of learn more about the landrace cannabis.
And it was very nicely timed a few years before the legalization in Thailand, which
gave a little bit more confidence to us and to others to be able to sort of open up because,
as I'm sure a lot of you are aware, the penalties for, you know, engaging in anything
cannabis related in Thailand before legalization were very, very severe. Yeah. And so, it was,
yeah, it was really about, it was about timing and about passion, I guess, and about a lot of
like-minded individuals with, you know, a singular target, I guess. And that target, again, being the
conservation of land races. And I think it's a subject which is pretty easy to be passionate
about, you know, there's substance, there's stories, there's so much to it. Yeah, there's a lot to it.
You were talking about like going into the communities and looking up fermented,
different fermented drinks. That's fascinating, man. Yeah. Like, can you give us an example?
Like, bang, is that like, do they make fermented bang and stuff like that? Well, you know, I've
actually never seen fermented bang. It's not, definitely not out of the bounds of the imagination.
No, you know, we were looking at doing, in this particular context, sort of pre-colonial Indian
and Thai recipes and wondering at our intellectual dishonesty at charging really high prices for
French wine pairings with that, you know. Yeah, yeah, of course. And so, it was a matter of, yeah,
trying to find, you know, different sort of unique things which we could bring that value element to
the customer, to the person consuming the beverage of, you know, a complex drink with a good taste
and a story. There's quite a lot of them around, but unfortunately, we don't really find them so
much in the big sort of urban city context where bang might be consumed, you know. And bang is a
regulated good, so it's sold in the government shop. You can find it outside, of course, but
primarily, at least I associate it with a bit more of an urban context. Whereas the drinks,
we were more in Chhattisgarh, in Jharkhand, in Orissa, in the tribal region, you know, mostly
grains, rice. One of my favorites in Thailand is called Sato. There's different forms, but
essentially, it's a glutinous rice with a little yeast cake called Luk Peng, which is made from a
bunch of different local herbs. And essentially, you get a little clay pot and you add your rice
and then your Luk Peng and your water. You fill it up with a little bit of water and then you seal
it off. The top of the jar is sealed off with clay and that'll be left for a few days. And you can
just burst, there's like a bamboo straw. You burst the clay seal and you just pop it straight in and
drink right out of it. And it's got the most wonderful, like sour, funky fermentation aromas,
frankly. And, you know, that provided a really solid base to push the experiment with infusing
different flavors into it, making it sparkling, that kind of thing. You know, I mean, the
equivalent of a really expensive wine, if it's something going to be like, you know, traditional,
there's a lot of racism in the world of food and Thai food, Indian food is very often looked down
upon. And so for it to sort of be valued as an equivalent by something like a Michelin inspector,
it needs to really be sort of... Yeah, I bet. So as a sommelier, did you guys,
did a lot of the experience with like terpings and stuff cross over into cannabis?
Yeah, at the end in my last job, that was something that we were playing with quite a lot,
last two jobs, actually. I was the beverage director for a group which included some
cocktail bars and a couple of restaurants in Bangkok. And they were very sort of progressive
and open minded. One of the owners smoked a lot of weed. And so it was a little bit easier to sort
of swing those things. However, we weren't able to actually roll it out in the dining room because
it was before the legalization. And despite, you know, terpenes not having any cannabis,
it's not the sort of attention that any sort of restaurant was looking for at that time.
But we were playing with it because, you know, apart from the fermented beverages I'm talking
about, they have alcohol in them. And there's a lot of people who don't consume alcohol in Asia.
And so we were looking, yeah, much more at doing stuff with tea, botanicals, of which, you know,
terpene's a key component in almost any that you look at. And so as a stoner, I'm always interested
in sort of, you know, finding some OG kush taste in some mad tea from somewhere or something like
that, you know? Yeah, of course. As you got into the Asian political sphere, and you started making
these connections and inroads, what got you then to move from maybe as much of a preservation of
Thailand races, which was really, you know, the main starting goal, into working with the farmers
and making sure the farmers are absolutely taken care of? I see those two things as absolutely
synonymous. That's beautiful. You know, same picture. Yeah, I mean, I can go in more into
detail if you like, but please do. Well, there's a lot of conservation. I see people tagging their
indoor grows as preservation runs, you know, and the thing with zoos is that they're pretty
big entities that require a lot of coordination and moving parts. And until the advent of pretty
strict regulations, and even despite that, they can be pretty dark places. And so
when I think of exit to conservation, I think of, yeah, little amateur zoos. It's a noble effort,
but ultimately, the only people who can grow significant populations of open pollinated
cannabis from land-based genetics is people in the traditional land-based growing region. I mean,
they don't have to contend, at least for now, with all of the licenses that's needed in the West or
in North America and Europe. They don't need to contend, at least until recently, they didn't
need to contend with hemp farms or contamination, those kinds of things. And so I'm hesitant to say
that no preservation can be done outside because I think it's pretty obvious that it can, but at
this point, the focus seems to be so much on getting seeds out of the traditional growing
regions and into cryogenic storage or into long-term growing facilities. And there's not
much thought going into actually just helping out the farmers who are growing land races in
the traditional growing regions. And keeping them growing these traditional plants. Yeah, like they're already
doing it. So in a lot of places, including in Thailand, people are coming over and they're like,
oh, well, listen, we need to teach these guys how to be more profitable so they can sort of
keep up with the modern industry, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. This is not the solution answer.
Sorry, this is not the solution either. By modernizing and changing either the target of
their growth, for example, they move away from tariffs to dry sift and bubble hashing and
Parvati and other places. This changes the way that the selections are made. And despite being
maybe quite subtle, they have long-lasting consequences. And so ultimately, we'd be
looking at providing essentially a subsidy for growers that are growing a product which
unfortunately is not profitable in the modern marketplace, but has significant value for the
community and industry as a whole. And giving them that incentive to make the choice
to grow these land races despite the disadvantages that are created by legislation, policy, etc.
Because ultimately, everybody has families to take care of and wants to eat.
And so when faced with the choice of, or not necessarily the choice, when faced with having a
long-standing land-race grow, no more customers and knowing that all it would take is to switch
to a modern cultivar for your market to suddenly open up, that's a choice which almost
every land-race farmer is facing today. And we need to give them a reason to be like hybrids. Let's
keep doing what we're doing. It kind of reminds me a little bit of the multi-state operators dropping
the prices below a sustainable price level for producing. Because they can afford to sustain that.
Take that loss for a decade. Yeah, exactly. It feels like the same situation with land-race
farmers. It's like everybody sort of recognizes the value of what they have, but nobody's really
willing to actually hook them up or even able really to buy their product. And so it's just
kind of going to disappear in the meantime. And that's what we hope to address and to redress.
And so what we do essentially is we approach the, it depends who we're approaching and when, but if
we can, we're approaching the community as a whole, the village elder or village chief or whatever
the equivalent is. And coming up with some sort of agreement for them to continue growing
land-races and for us to make an attempt at offering their germplasm and seeds to the
international community for which to breed with. The idea is that people back home don't need to be
concerned with conservation if we actually let the pros take care of it in a way. And then they can
have fun creating all the crazy hybrids from the pheno hunt, which can be done each year in such a
genetically diverse population. So that's the way we see it.
That's amazing, man. The whole way that you approach it is very,
just socially conscious to me. And it's something that's been lacking a lot in cannabis.
I think a lot of people that I've seen over the years tend to maybe, I don't want to say exploit
the farmers, but it's hard to say anything other than that because they try to get the cheapest
absolute price so that they can then take a cut off the seeds over the top. And that's how they
make their money. But it all goes back to what is the incentive for the farmers to keep growing
these when people come to them without using any names, like a big seed company from Amsterdam
that says, hey, we'd rather you have you. You give us your land-races, we'll store these in germplasm.
You can grow some of these feminize seeds in the meantime. This is how things disappear for good.
I appreciate your work on it. I don't think that we're going to be able to
to prevent the land-races going extinct, unfortunately, but we'll definitely do what we can
with the communities that are willing to work with us to try and keep what we can for as long
as we can. But ultimately it's going to require a concerted effort on behalf of the entire community.
Ultimately, there needs to be a demand for terroir-driven products and a clear understanding
of what terroir-driven products are. Ultimately, I think a lot of people, they want to have that
experience of the Colombian gold or the Thai stick that they had back in the day. And that was all
imported cannabis. And so if we want to return to experiences like that, we need to consider a
normalization of trade. Since that's so, so far away, it seems to make sense to support the
land-race growers in the meantime by breeding with their genetics.
So let's define land-race as you see it, as you understand it, because that's super important.
You know, I hate to do that actually, because, well not I don't hate to do it, but I just think
that there's a lot of opinions and a lot of words out there. I don't see why we need to reinvent the
wheel every time, you know, like my take is not as interesting or I think as accurate as the numerous
studies which have been published over the last few decades, you know, dealing with land-races
and also specifically defining land-races. So I would say that I can't actually remember the name
of the authors of the paper right now. There's a paper called Towards an Evolved Concept of
Land-Races, which basically it's looking at the history of the definition of the term
and making a proposal that land-races should be considered as basically dynamic populations,
which can be subjected to introgression while still retaining their designation as land-races.
Interesting. And that's important because the earliest definitions of land-race, von Grumker for
example, but even until Zevin, which I think was 1998, were much more about static,
you know, the land-race is a monolithic, never-changing thing, right? And if it becomes
polluted, it's gone. And if that's the case, then they're destined for the museum and they'll never,
you know, that's a quote from the paper, you know, they'll never get out. So in one sense,
that makes a lot of sense. In one side, that makes a lot of sense to me. On the other, I think that
the implication of this sort of evolved understanding of land-races is underlined by a
worldview, or sorry, maybe sort of structured by a worldview, which cannot consider a future where
indigenous people might be sort of left in peace to grow alone, you know, like the paper can't even
consider that, which bothers me fundamentally, because as a naive dreamer, I suppose I'd like
to imagine a future where, you know, everybody could be left alone. But I suppose that is somewhat
unrealistic. So, you know, given the context, the capitalism will continue to expand into
every single possible market that it can. Land-race, cannabis in traditional growing
regions far away from the nearest road, city, no exception. You know, if that's the case, then
I think that that paper does make a lot of sense. If we are going to integrate these
communities into the global economy, and their crops into the global economy as commodities,
then certainly there needs to be some sort of new look at how we define land-races.
Yeah, I would basically say, yeah, go read the studies. Don't listen to me. Like I've got nothing
fresh to say on the definition of land-races. You know, I'm a bit boring on that. I'm happy to defer
to the scientists. But that's a great answer, because, you know, some people will insert their
opinions as facts, state it very confidently. And that's that, you know. And the real answer is,
man, just got to check out the research and stay up to date with the research, right?
Yeah, yeah, because it's changing, you know, and it has changed. And the way we interpret the study
ourselves, you know, I read it, you read it, and somehow we come up with two slightly different
conclusions, you know. So I would rather instead of, because I see that something that's happening a
lot, I'm constantly having these conversations. And I feel like instead of constantly reinventing
the wheel and giving our opinions as to what the definitions of these things are, we should maybe
be doing more reading as a community and seeing what, you know, the biologists have to say about
land-races. Because there's a lot of work done for corn land-races, for wheat, etc.
Yeah. And despite the fact that there's very few cannabis-specific studies, there's a lot of
studies on similar organisms, hops, etc. that we can learn a lot from. Yeah. So people that are
watching this, probably one of the reasons they're going to come to watch a show about Thailand races,
and we talked about this yesterday, what is the chocolate tie? It's always the first question I
get. I've worked with a line called chocolate tie from a dude named Dro, who supposedly sourced it
from the people that DNA down in there and sourced it from to make chocolate back in the day.
There's of course all these fantastic legends and fables of pasta dipped, you know, heroin infused
cannabis. There's all these tales of what chocolate tie is. In your experience, what have you learned
about chocolate tie? Very, very little. And I think that's the message here, is that in
Thailand, the area which produced cannabis, the largest area, Isan, was incredibly, really,
really poor until quite recently. And the idea that farmers were sort of walking around eating
Nestle chocolate and naming things. I'm not saying that no one had ever heard of chocolate in Isan
in the 70s, but it's an English word. And it's, in my opinion, pretty clearly it's foreigners who
had some accession or selection or bags of weed with some seeds in it, you know.
And they had, you know, a chocolate. I really, because I really can't speak on DNA or anything
like that at all. All I can think of is, you know, having gone through the motions myself,
asking pretty much everybody that I can, you know, what to deal with chocolate tie and, you know,
being met with the same thing. One issue is that a lot of the traditional knowledge here in Thailand
has sort of slowly been sort of dissipating and becoming unstructured. And a lot of the young
men are learning from the same sources that we are. And so you'll meet some, especially ethnic
pie, like they'll be maybe aware of chocolate pie. And maybe if you rocked up to Thailand in
a few years ago and you asked for it, you would have got something and they would have told you
it was chocolate pie. I don't know. I can't speak for anything like that. But what I can say is that
as far as large open pollinated populations of cannabis that we could describe as land race,
that the farmers are sort of engaging with and in their head conceiving of as chocolate tie,
that doesn't exist as far as I'm aware of. What I can say though, to give people some hope.
In context on what might have been. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. Is that the aroma of chocolate,
also that of coffee, dark, earthy, musty aromas are very typical of narrow leaf drug type land
race when it's been subjected to compression curing, which I think a lot of you will know
as tie sticks. And so I guess when you have this sort of this mechanical pressure plus temperature
plus time, we see significant impact on the terpene profiles. When we can add anaerobic
conditions on occasion, aging underground or these days in a vacuum seal, we do see some pretty funky
aromas coming out of it. But one thing that's quite consistent is sort of earthy, chocolatey
character. That's something that I've had a lot in my time in Southeast Asia, in Laos, in Cambodia,
in Myanmar and elsewhere with the older, you know, six month plus cured stuff. And so I don't want
to speculate too much, but I think it would be interesting if there turned out to be some sort of
terpene, which was sort of maybe biosynthesized during this aging process and, you know,
was leading to that. It could also be a combination of different compounds which are leading to this
smell. But yeah, there's definitely something to research there. And I think for those interested
in the chocolate pie, your best bet is the Fino hunt, the Lao Isan gene pool. And so for that,
you can approach squirrel tail, tiger tail, Thai mango, snake teeth, a bunch of other stuff. And,
you know, you'll find pretty consistently, you know, applying these compression curing
techniques that you'll have these chocolate aromas. They're delicious, by the way. If you
nail it, you're looking at a slow degradation of the chlorophyll, leaving almost everything else
intact. And so you've got a very smooth smoke, which doesn't have this sort of full green
character, which chlorophyll brings, which is so ubiquitous to smoking cannabis flower. And I'll say
as a note, you know, just as sort of curiosity, a couple of times we've had some professional
sommeliers coming into our, we're partnered with a dispensary in Bangkok, and they have a total of
64 strains in the shop front now. And we let all the sommeliers smell them and they're like, yeah,
next, next, next, next, next. They get to the compression cured Lao gold landrace, and they're
like, Oh, what's this? Because it's the only one that doesn't smell green. Yeah. And doesn't have
that chlorophyll and in wine green is an aroma that's very sort of, yeah, it's viewed as a flaw,
almost, almost universally. And so, yeah, I think that there's, there's something to be
explored there. And I think that there's a reason why so many people are in love with this chocolate
high with the myth of it, with the story, because there is something there that, you know, rewarding
delicious. I just don't think it's a strain. A strain. It's proper. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know,
what's interesting is growing up here and in, in the nineties, earlier nineties, getting a lot of
Mexican compressed brick constant. And in that Mexican compressed brick, I've always said it
smelled like minty chocolate, but definitely a cocoa type smell. And I want to, I mean,
it was compression cured and sat forever. So it kind of speaks to what you're talking about. Very,
very, very interesting. You mentioned of course, the infamous tiger tail squirrel tail. Can we
start talking about some of these different what you would call like maybe an expression
of these different land races or. Yeah. Yeah, sure. So it's gone really confusing and that's
the picture that I'm trying to paint. The way I'm explaining it's probably going to be a bit
confused. And what I'm explaining is very confusing. Essentially the first attestation to
the word squirrel tail in the Lao script that we saw was in reference to traditional kit weaving,
which is a style or a squirrel tail is a pattern found in traditional kit weaving, which today is
practiced in silk. And I think one day I'd like to find if I can a traditional Thai historian,
you know, a weaving historian, if that exists. Oh, right. Did they make it with hemp?
That would be my immediate hunch. Yeah. I mean, squirrel tail, the tiger tail.
These are many things. It's all down to the Lao, Isan, we can call it. So on both sides of the
Mekong in Thailand and Laos live Lao speakers in the Thai side. It's referred to as a region
Isan or the Korat plateau. And essentially the words that are used to describe cannabis of a
certain archetype are squirrel tail, tiger tail, etc. So squirrel tail describes like a big
like cheerleader, like pom pom style, like really like big, like lots of leaves, very puffy.
And then the tiger tail is the it's more like the creeper I've heard it referred to in English
as a creeper. That makes sense. Like Robert Clark described creepers. I think so. Yes. You have a
lot of lateral branching low to the ground with these branches sometimes forming new roots and
then big swoopy main collars. And strangely, the English translation for tiger tail is sometimes
rendered as rudder. And I'm not sure who got confused, the English speakers of the Thai,
but some of the Thais have also been telling me that no, this is rudder as in like boat rudder.
Yeah, something they'd be most used to seeing. I don't know. But in that sense, I'm thinking just
like a long, upright, rigid object. But, you know, because if you look at some of the tiger tail,
they really do like they have this huge main top collar and then the branching is all really low
to the side. That's quite as with a lot of these things, there's a lot of different stories. But so
far, you know, the we were able to differentiate between the structure on these two. And then also
the structure for the snake teeth, which is the vine like growth, kind of like Dr. Grinspoon,
where you have the running calyx structure. And then the mango or would be the you know,
the mercy enrich accessions. But it's also pretty common to find mango aromas in squirrel tail,
tiger tail, and the snake teeth. So ultimately, I think that originally, it would have been a
singular gene pool, which during its dissemination and the cross cultural contact between the Thai,
the Lao and other groups in the region, seeds were exchanged, plants were exchanged. And we
ended up with both autoctonous, you know, land race population, big open pollinated population,
so autoctonous and allotonous in different regions, bunch of inbred lines, some single plants,
reproductions from single seeds, you know, multiplied into millions and then disseminated
and then met, and a lot of them carry the same name. So I think it's best understood, you know,
as archetypes within the gene pool that have since become established as their own
land races, and in some cases, more like modern strains as an IBL. Yeah, yeah. And all of them
coexisting, temporally and geographically, in some cases, pollinating each other. Yeah, it's just
like, really, really, really complicated. We basically have done our best to ignore everything
that we sort of hear and focus on what we see. And look for large open pollinated populations
that breed true, that seem to have, you know, seem to express what we consider to look more like a
primordial character. But ultimately, as long as the population size is big enough, and it's grown
in open pollination, then you know, that fits the base criteria. And so we're looking to
collect from everything. But what we're sort of getting involved in heavily is what we can
determine to be the more, I don't want to use the word pure, because it's not accurate, but
the stuff which is grown properly, managed properly, and not just, you know, every single
little thing that we can find, because honestly, it's a rabbit hole. There's at this point, since
legalization, every single uncle, you know, whoever had a single plant in his back garden, making seeds
and selling them, giving them away, you know, people are selling clones for about 30 cents,
a clone on the side of the street in Bangkok out of little trucks and stuff. And so there's this
really intense sort of mixing and hybridization of everything going on at the moment. But that's
just sort of the culmination of the last 40-50 years. And so as far as the Lao Yisan gene pool
is concerned, we've been looking at plants that, you know, look like a squirrel tail,
look like a tiger tail, and are kept in big open pollinated growth in fairly remote regions where
we can. And basically, that's taken us out of Yisan for the most part, and into the more
hilly regions where we can find that, you know, we can get that distance that's required to, you know,
to totally prevent the cross-contamination. So you've done a lot of work in Thailand,
to, you know, try to pick apart a lot of these stories. And over time, it seems like Zomie is
kind of spread out a little bit. Are there any other areas that you've been really excited about
that you've been looking into? I mean, you've talked about, you know, around Thailand, there's,
you know, Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar. Are there other places in there that you're excited about or
elsewhere? Yeah, absolutely. Cambodia is, you know, the place that I've spent the most time
personally. So I have a really soft spot for Cambodia. And a lot of my best friends are
Cambodian people that, you know, they were little rascals, and now they're big rascals. And we're
looking forward to being able to return there probably this year, and look at what we can do
to expand our collection, try and see if we can recruit some different communities into the
collective and bring out some new seeds. Otherwise, Laos, you know, that's always one of the most
interesting regions. If you're, you know, the Thai nationalism prevents them from admitting how
good the Laotian weed is, and the Laotian reverse with the Thai. They're both excellent. There's a
lot of synergy there. And, you know, Laos has a few iconic areas producing, you know, land-raised
cannabis that we're really looking forward to go to. In particular, the Si Pan Don, the 4,000
islands, which is basically an area of the Mekong, where there's cataracts on the border with Cambodia
and Laos. And Mekong spreads out into these loads of islands. And it's a pretty well-known
tourist destination, a place where a lot of people have, you know, fond memories of
kicking back and fishing and smoking great pop from the 60s onwards. And it has, you know,
there's not a lot of places left on the Mekong, the islands, which grow this beautiful golden
weed, which all the old timers are looking for. And so that's probably going to be one of the
priorities in terms of where we're going to be going around. It's not necessarily grown
within the main areas, but, you know, along the cataracts, there's a lot of people growing here
and there, and we're looking forward to getting some seeds. So yeah, golden Mekong weed, Laos,
that's going to be, I think that's going to be a big hit with the old timers. But there's a lot
in the north of the country near the border with Yunnan. And then of course, the Bolavin plateau,
that's beautiful coffee growing region with a significant amount of local population belonging
to the Bolavin ethnic group, who's very talented cannabis growers. There's so much in Laos that we
can explore. It's really a very, very diverse country, very small, but with a lot of diversity
in cannabis and the people, the landscapes and everything. Myanmar, unfortunately, is
this, you know, I mean, it feels a bit silly saying, unfortunately, in the context of seeds,
because it's not really what makes it sad, obviously, but Myanmar is undergoing, you know,
severe political upheaval, civil war. If anybody, you know, wants to help out, they're taking
volunteers in Chiang Mai right now, you can go and sign up to go fight for the militias that are
fighting against the government. It's absolute chaos out there. It's been getting really,
really, really bad. And, you know, we're not doing anything in Myanmar right now. Yeah,
it doesn't make any sense. It doesn't sound very safe right now. Or, I mean, people's priorities
are different right now. Yeah, that's it. People's priorities are different. And we don't feel like,
we've spoken to, you know, to our contacts out there. And we theoretically could get seeds out.
But it just, again, it doesn't seem like a priority. I think the priority probably seems
to be for us now to continue focusing on our work in Cambodia, Laos, in the northeast of India,
in, you know, Mizoram, Tripura, Nagaland, etc. But we're also very, very excited to be bringing out
some Colombian genetics, hopefully soon. Oh, wow. Yeah, well, we're all very excited about that.
This is a lot of similarities with the tie, it seems between, you know, the Caribbean
and Latin American gene pools. We're looking forward to having closer collaboration with us
and, you know, growers, members of our collective in that group and together, try to build a better
picture of, you know, what's going on with the land races between the two regions. A lot of
similarities in the setting up semi outdoor curing styles with golden wheat as a result,
that kind of thing. And so our, yeah, our boys are based in Calcutta, but they're mobile. So
we're looking forward to bringing out some genetics from there pretty, pretty, pretty soon.
Pretty sure the next drop, although the current drop is Parvati, I just, we just came back from,
from Himachal Pradesh. But I think next is going to be in that order, Thailand, Cambodia, Laos,
followed by India again. Can we talk about some of the current recent accessions that you got
that are on your site right now? Let's talk about some of those. So people have
an understanding from you other than what you write, which is like, that's kind of what initially
drew me to you, you know, a good friend of Neville's, send me to your site and said, you've
got to check these guys out, man, like, this is legit. And I did. And it's not just, it's not just
descriptions, like lulling you in with, you know, words and marketing. It's how you collected it.
It's how you listed the accessions. It's done very well, like in my opinion, very scientifically
and all the details that people need to know. A lot of people will of course be wondering like,
what is this taste and smell like? What's the THC content, you know, like what's the high end?
And, and, and not, not understanding that, like, they're thinking of it from a very modern mindset
of what's this going to be like in my room indoors. And we just, it's not something you can
really tell them, you know, how this plant grows outdoors in, in this expresses in this environment,
how it's going to be indoors in your environment where it's never been, you know, so, yeah.
Please talk about some of your, your more recent accessions and what people can expect.
Sure. So yeah, like, like you said, we don't really, we don't really put, you know, like expected
yields or, you know, we do, we do go into terpene profiles a little bit, but you know, not massively
and certainly not THC percentages or anything. I'd like to note that, you know, we've found some
accessions in Cambodia, which have very few trichome heads on them. However, they absolutely
flat. And so I'm just going to go ahead and go on a limb and say that maybe there's even some
other cannabinoids at play there. And so, you know, measuring, you know, that strange quality
or that accessions quality based on its THC percentage just seems like an absurdity.
Yeah, it does. There's so many missing cannabinoids out there like that we don't,
that aren't tested for, we have no clue what is causing some of these highs.
Right. So as far as the most recent accessions, we were in Parvati Valley, which is, you know,
one of the true hotspots of land races in the world, in India. It's maybe not as much of a
priority as far as conservation goes. The farmers there are pretty, pretty well off and doing
pretty well. In fact, they don't really need our help in the same way that farmers in Southeast
Asia do. But it's important to us because Parvati is one of the most visible, one of the most famous
of the growing regions in the whole world. And so, you know, without having, you know,
a few pictures and some accessions from Malana, it's really hard to have that clout as a,
you know, a land race collective, you know. Is that where Malana is in Parvati
Valley or is it called a valley? It is. Yeah, yeah, it is. So Parvati is in the state of
Himachal Pradesh, which basically means like the, you know, the Himachal province and
Himachal is like a heavenly mountain, I believe, in Bihari. And it's the, you know, the place
outside of Kathmandu. So basically, a lot of Parvati Valley is in Himachal Pradesh, which
is in the north of India, near the border with China and not so far away from Pakistan,
Kashmir is in between. It's in the northwest of the country. And it's basically a hub for
cannabis growing since the 1960s as one of the sort of the tail ends of the hippie trail,
you know, other than Kathmandu and Nepal. And starting, I'm not exactly sure when, but, you
know, I would say maybe late 70s, early 80s, a lot of Italians coming to Parvati, La Paz and
Malana villages in particular, and getting involved with churros production there. So
it's had a big international reputation. And in Europe, Parvati hash is not necessarily the most
common. But in a lot of places in Italy, in the Scandinavian countries, is one of the prestige
hash that is available on offer. And so for us, it's, it seemed like, you know, a very
a priority, let's say, basically, because, you know, when foreigners are learning and educating
themselves about land races, one of the first places that they learn about is generally
Malana, Kassol, you know, Dosh, this kind of thing. And so we felt like in order to bring
attention to smaller villages in other parts of India and other countries in Thailand,
that it was in the best interest of approaching and working with the farmers there. And so but
the farmers there, they're not, conservation is needed everywhere. But Malana and maybe not
Malana, but Parvati Valley as a whole is one of the more stable, one of the larger
land race producing regions, the people there are holding on to their traditions pretty hard.
And so it's not necessarily an area where we can engage in necessarily the same type of
conservation work that we can in tribal regions in the northeast of India or elsewhere. But
it's somewhere where we, you know, could source some very high quality seeds from very, very famous
gardens, maybe, you know, do our part in helping to build up the body of knowledge for what could
eventually be an appellation system in the region. And, you know, that, that in particular, is
something that on a personal level, I'd love to, to see happen. And, you know, it'd be a privilege
to be involved in anything even remote to that. I think Parvati is one of the Grands Crus, so to speak,
of the cannabis world. There's a lot of, it's a storied place with a big diversity of, in French,
we call them the Ludi and Climat. They refer to the smallest geographic designation, basically
individual plots, sometimes having multiple within one vineyard. And so, you know, in Parvati, we see
a similar system with very small individual plots making up a constellation that forms a larger
sort of system that spreads throughout the whole valley. And so that provides us with a lot of
different expressions, you know, of that gene pool from the various sort of terroir of the area, whether
they be the dark side of the valley with a lot of humidity, a lot of rain, or, you know, the best,
most sunny spots at high altitude above Malana Village, right? And everything in between. And so
in total, we made 74 accessions, which I, maybe it's, I don't need to, but I just want to point out, like,
how much tracking was involved. You know, gardens that are, you know, between, let's say,
2,100 to 3,000, 4,000 meters, basically, at the highest. So between, well, like 6,000 to
almost 12,000 feet. And a lot of the villages, for example, Tosh, maybe I don't actually know
the exact altitude of Tosh. The Rasol is 2,600 or so. And the Vairam fields above it are hitting 3,000,
right? And so, yeah, you need to get up to Rasol and then up to the fields beyond. So similarly to
in Southeast Asia, where next to the rice fields, there's little huts where they dry out a lot of
the products and where they rest during the hot parts of the day. There's rubbing houses in a lot
of the higher fields in Parbati. And so a lot of the time we were hanging out with the boys there
and asking them, you know, like, you know, what's the name of this garden? What's the name of that
garden? Can you make sure you separate plants from those two next time you rub? We'll give you more
money. Yeah. Honestly, they think we're stupid because they're like, why would the foreigner pay
more just for knowing that it comes from one garden and not the other? And then they're like,
let's put some fucking stamps on the charras. Yeah, right. That's very Western mentality.
But I think it's rewarding and it helps the farmers differentiate their product without
having any change on the product itself. And it helps us, again, to bring a better,
clearer picture of what is going on in the gene pool in that area and to represent that visually,
a text, and with our seeds. I'm really excited about that. You were telling a story yesterday
about hand rubbing that I thought was fascinating. And like the one thing that like,
as a person who might have a few OCDs, like the idea of hand rubbing, like to me is skin cells
and stuff like that, like that drives me nuts. But I understand the tradition and the quality
that goes along with this. And you had an interesting story about like how bad it can
screw up your hands. Can you tell me a little bit about that so people can understand what goes into
this? Yeah. I'm actually, I didn't mean to emphasize that, honestly. I think the eyelashes
are more of a concern than the hands. Really? Yeah. Yeah. Because you'll never even really
see the skin cell. You'll just notice that your hands feel a bit papery and thin, right?
And then if you let them dry out afterwards, they'll get all ragged. But yeah, you'll often
notice little eyelashes because they're always hunched over when they're rubbing. So
basically, you know, everybody, all the foreigners, they come up to Parvati for the first time and
they have it in their head that they're going to, you know, run naked through the field of weed,
maybe. Yeah. Something like that, right? And you probably could if you wanted to. I mean, you'd
get some of the air. And then I also want to say before I say anything else, you know, because
a lot of these conversations in the past have led to people going to where we've talked about
on the back of me explaining where the grows are. If you go to Milano Valley and you touch any plants
to pay about a $500 fine for every plant that you touch every time you touch one. They are not
so keen on foreigners coming in. But in other places, in the job, you can probably run naked
through the fields as you imagine you could. And, you know, the first thing is like, okay, well,
I'm not going to buy hash while I'm here because I'm a cannabis nerd and I know how it's made. So
I'm going to rub it myself. Yeah. So you wait for early and you go up and rub and rub. And you'll
notice that unless you're doing this regularly, it takes a big toll on your hands. The terpenes
are somewhat caustic and you're applying a lot of pressure onto your palms. And specifically when
you're collecting the matter at the end, you're pressing your thumb. Not only is it pretty bad
on your joints pretty quickly, but you'll notice blisters on your thumb if your technique isn't on
point. So I think that, yeah, for people who have these kind of like, you know, whether it's OCD or
just, you know, being concerned about hygiene, which is reasonable, you know, I get that.
Yeah. I can't even see the skin cells, but like, even when I, when I'm like doing that at home,
like going through picking seeds and I've got like cake, cake to resin on my hands, I'm thinking,
but if I smoke this, what am I screaming? And it's not really going to be perfect, you know?
But also, also knowing about mulatta cream, that is like, in my mind, like supposed to be
what the ultimate hash, what I understand mulatta cream. So that's like, there's no way any skin
cell would make me pass up some mulatta cream to try. You know, the top level cream will have very
few skin cells in it because the whole point of cream is for it to be very delicately rubbed.
Yes. And so when you do rub it delicately, there's, you know, and also we're talking about,
you know, for, for someone with soft hands who doesn't rub every year, then yeah, it's going to
be filled with skin cells. That's a good point. For a very calloused hand, not so much. Yeah.
Yeah. I will say though, that during the season you'll find the whole village is empty and,
you know, in a way you could, it's child exploitation or whatever, but I mean,
it's not really like they have such thing as childcare up in the hills either. So
we'll leave the kids at home. They come with and the whole family rubs and you better believe that
the dad is going to tell you later, like, yo, this was my 16 year old daughter who rubbed this.
Her hands are really soft. You can pay more for this. You know? Oh, I bet. Yeah. They do that.
They're always like, no, no, this is the youngest, you know, the, this is my wife or it's always the
wife or daughter who's hands gets the highest prices. That's funny. Very typical though. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So is there like, you mentioned Columbia, is there any other like
pie in the sky, like ideas you want to pull off with Zomia that you haven't yet?
Yeah. We'd like to, I mean, a lot of things we'd love to, to get more into the production
of an aging and then selling of tie stick and charis. Those are what we're passionate about.
Traditional compression curing and traditional hand rubbing, you know, the artisanal crafts,
which don't involve the mediation of many tools or machinery in the elaboration of traditional
cannabis products. That's always going to be something that we want to get involved in.
So I just, maybe if you'll allow me, want to go back a little bit to Milana.
Yeah, no, I think, I think that there's a bit more nuance that needs to be explained here.
The cream, the charis is rubbed from domesticate plants, which over the course of the last 25
years in particular, every single farmer who has been around long enough to see it
talks about a decline in THC levels and in trichome density. And so it went from being
a lesser amount of plants needed to rub 10 grams to a much higher amount of plants needed
10 grams. And so my personal experiences in India were not in Parvati Valley, actually the first
ones. They were in mostly in Kinar and Spiti in the more remote regions of Himachal Pradesh,
where there's much less of a tourist drug trade and much more of local traditional consumption.
And there the charis is referred to as jungli. Jungli being the word which gave us the word
in English for jungle. It means forest in Hindi. And is forest hash in that regards can be thought
of as hash rubbed from feral plants. Now, the hash rubbed from feral plants, in my opinion,
that is the pinnacle of the world of charis because not only have the domesticate plants
been losing, I can't really explain much more about why, but the testimony of the farmers that
they're losing THC content over time, whereas the feral plants are becoming irrelevant with
very few people outside of, for example, in Kulu, which is at the bottom of the valley.
It's a much bigger city. It's outside of Parvati. You'll find drug addicts going and
rubbing hands worth from the feral plants on the dusty-ass plant on the side of the road. That
happens. But more and more in the main producing villages like Rasal, Malana, there are far less
feral plants now than there were before because the feral plants are often the first to be targeted
in eradication campaigns. The cops will come and put a little bit of pressure, and the cops
themselves probably won't be clearing the field, but they'll be telling the villagers to clear the
fields. And they'll clear the feral plants below the village that are in plain view of the path
that goes up the village. And if that doesn't satisfy the cops, then maybe they'll cut down
a few domesticate fields. So I think that really the pinnacle, the holy grail, whatever you want
to call it, is the junglee. Not all junglee is equal. It needs to be from an orphan who can rub
very well and can rub a good quality cream slowly without much contaminant. But if he rubs from
feral plants, you can expect a bigger diversity of cannabinoids and terpenes, which when consumed
fresh or aged, leads to a much more pronounced and distinct experience. And I think that's where
the magic of Parvati and Charis in general is, is live resin made from live plants. Funnily
enough, all the Gora, all the foreigners, they're pretty excited about consuming it fresh because
that's when it's really terpy, but also quite caustic on the throat. All the locals wear it by
smoking it after a year when it's lost a lot of its taste, but it's much smoother and provides a
more repetitive narcotic kind of effect. That's really interesting. I think so too, man. I love
going out there and trying all this stuff. The locals are like, they produce a lot, but they
don't produce a lot of the best grades. You normally need to commission that. So if you
wanted, say a few kilos of super cream or something, you'd need to come in advance and say,
I want you to make and you need to trust and stuff. And so when you're going there on the spot and
asking them, give me your best stuff, they're kind of like, don't smoke it too quick. And I'm like,
here, I'm on a mission. Try everything as best as possible. So you better believe, you know?
Yeah, dude. Man, I, you know, usually my, I have my co-host Nata with me and right now I would be
making a joke about sending him over to suitcase some Alana cream and bring it back. You know what
I mean? The old traditional suitcase, if you get my drift. Yeah. I remember back in, I was in
Denmark for a little brief period of time, met a Danish chick and they're pretty famous for bringing,
bringing the dudes back to Denmark. And anyway, they got this little hippie commune there that
sort of, or anarchist commune that has changed a lot, but basically there's kind of this marketplace
and it's all, it's changed a lot, a lot, a lot. So, but back in the day, I remember there was always
ass hash or briefcase hash, like eggs or super flat or big bricks of Kashmiri that came God knows.
No, it was always like the, the briefcase hash. Yeah, man. That was, yeah. Yeah.
How often did you choose the ass hash? Honestly, I don't mind, you know, like,
you know, like there's that study with Madrid where they found that like every sample of,
of hash that they, they found was contaminated with fecal matter.
Oh, wow. You ever heard of that? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Brutal.
Look, I think, you know, I'm not, that's definitely not something I'm looking to consume.
Yeah. Yeah. But, you know, in order to maybe sort of contextualize this and everything else,
that might seem a little bit odd about hygiene that we're talking about. I think I'd like to sort
of explain a little bit about how, you know, an analogy in winemaking would be the most illustrative.
And it's that when you have an old winery with, you know, very porous walls from an old traditional
building, you know, one that wasn't built, you know, up to code or according to what some bureaucrats
wanted, just traditional building, you know, people knocked it up because they needed it.
Those walls will accumulate yeast and all these things over long, long periods of time. But when
you're talking about a country which has, you know, a heavy bureaucracy, especially when it comes
to things like food products, you know, the US does not allow, like, I mean, maybe this has
changed, but I remember like, it was a big deal that the US didn't allow like raw cow's milk
cheese, which is like the best cheese. Yeah. Live, you know, lactic bacteria culture leads to
much more complexity of taste and flavor. But there are huge big hygiene, you know, concerns in the US,
which confuses me because I also get told on the other side that standards are lax compared to the
EU. And so I think, without being a chauvinist or without trying to, I'd like to, I don't know, I
guess, praise the Europeans for having that sort of ability to be very hygienic when they think
that it matters. Yeah. For example, during the harvesting of the grapes and everything else,
but allowing certain contaminants during other parts of the process, because they're either a
part of the traditional method, or they have some sort of an impact on the taste or something.
Yeah. And in that regards, I kind of place the skin cells in that regard. If you're a craft beer
drinker, you'll probably seen the brett beer that's came about in the last sort of 10 years or
so. And, you know, we describe it as like barnyard aromas and smells, right? And taste. We find it
very typically in, well, it's caused by bacterial infection, which you can get rid of through proper
hygiene. Yeah. I find it a lot in French wines. And, you know, the Americans, you know, the
tasting panels when the supermarkets are going to buy like hundreds of thousands of litres of
stuff and they're like, no. And I go, hell no. And it took, you know, decades and for the craft
beer hipsters to come out and be like, no, these bacterias are actually okay. And we're going to
incorporate them, you know, voluntarily into the beer. And then that's still changing the mind.
But there is a big difference in the way that traditional terroir-driven products are
conceived of and the requirements. You know, a lot of people where I come from might say that if you
create a formula and you sanitize everything, then it can't express the soil and the culture
and the life, you know? Yeah. So bear that in mind if you feel a little bit disgusted by finger hash.
Yeah. Yeah. You know, it's one of those things where it's like, I can't see it, but in the back
of my mind, it's always there, you know, someone's proteins. Yeah. I get that. You know, I will, I'll
tell you what, what you really should worry about. And this is a significant concern, actually, is
adulterants. Adulterants caused by the size of the fields in places like Parvati or in Utrakhan,
they've increased massively, you know, tenfold, hundredfold, or in different places over the
course of the last few decades, and they still can't quite meet demand. And so, you know, there's
always sort of a lack of product. And for example, in Parvati, the backstop is made up by Nepalese
who themselves make up the laboring class in Himachal Pradesh. And they also often rub hash
on contract for Himachali landowners. And if they can't meet their quotas, they'll incorporate a
little bit of Nepali hash into the Milana to bulk it out so they can get a better price per gram
from their landlord. And then down in the valley, it's definitely being contaminated or adulterated
with all sorts of things like duke, like incense sticks, henna, just mud, random crap,
just in order to, you know, bulk it up. And I mean, I don't know how to explain why they do it.
Everybody knows why they do it. But the one thing, when you're getting only the top quality, and you
know, it's not adulterated, what then you need to make sure, you know, you're probably going to want
to rub it yourself if you're worried about hygiene is that they do stuff like when they're first
starting, they'll rub their eyebrows in order to get some oil on their fingers. And that'll provide
the first, you know, because what you're trying to do is you're trying to lift the trichomes off of
the off of the plant. Yeah. So in the they need you need good weather conditions, and you need
your hands to be the basic, the perfect humidity and smooth. If they're too dry or something,
it's not a real problem. If your hands do need to be conditioned, somehow the easiest way is to
spit on them or to rub your hair to rub behind your ears, to rub your eyebrows. And they do that.
And the most oily part of your face. Yeah, yeah, yeah. They got the sebum. And so,
yeah, honestly, I probably shouldn't be saying this stuff on
but it's the truth, you know, it's a part of the culture. And frankly, when you're combusting it.
Yeah, you're burning the shit out of it. But I understand the icky part of it.
Yeah. I mean, yeah, it's, it's just one of those things as an OCD person like that. It just Yeah,
but I can get over it pretty easily. I mean, I think back to the shit that was in like,
hard drugs that I did. And it's like, the finger like worrying about skin compared to some of the
cut that was in hard drugs like it just seems silly, but yeah, there we are. So a lot of people
that are gonna be going to your site after watching the show, which is Zomia, Zomia,
cannabis co.com. So me a cannabis code. We do start by consensus. And the consensus was a
an unwieldy and cumbersome website name and manages of being, you know, collective led by
consensus. But yeah, Zomia, cannabis co.com. So one of the first questions that people are
going to be asking and I know you're probably going to get 100 emails about this after.
So I figured maybe let's just try to curb some of the emails. What's what's one of the lines you
would recommend for a California indoor garden from your indoor garden, indoor light garden from
your selections and so I think that there's like, it's kind of like the Chinese restaurants in the
UK or the US, you know, people feel more comfortable with kind of like an intermediary
or familiarity of some sort. Yeah, sweet and diversion, perhaps a little bit less spicy.
And so in that regards, I think some of the Landrace IBLs can be quite appropriate for
growers who lack the confidence to approach, you know, a long flowering varietal. In that regards,
the classic sort of lowland tie stick accession from us would be the Dai Deng, which is the
transliteration for red thread. That's the legendary red thread tie sticks from from
Eastland from back in the day. We're working with a clan from Macomb Ponom who, you know,
have been working with old seed stock reproducing in a pretty large population now, since quite a
few years before legalization. Yeah, and so that would be a little bit, you know, shorter flowering,
a little bit, you know, more, it's still gonna have a lot of vigor, but it's going to be a bit
more uniform in its canopy and its growth patterns. And so as far as the sort of the very equatorial
lines, I think that would be a really approachable line for beginners. Saying that, the picture,
I think that's on the background here of the post of the is the Kano Street. And that's a skull
Karen genetics from the Kinkajan National Park area on the border with Myanmar and Thailand.
Yeah, I see it's huge plant grows really vigorously. You know, it's resistant to everything.
You don't need to watch it much. Don't need to feed it much. It just grows like hell. And so
if space isn't your concern, you know, then, you know, you can consider going for something like
that. But ultimately, if you're working with really stretchy, long flowering varietals like
this, there are quite a few tricks that you can take to both shorten the flowering and
manage the canopy more evenly. Maybe we can get a little bit. Yeah, please do. People are going to
be wanting this. Well, so I would say that if you have the ability, if you're not a commercial
grower, even if you are and you have the ability to sacrifice a space or a cycle in order to do
pheno hunts, I think that's the way to do it. The idea of stabilizing phenos and also
you're going to be dealing with the intersex traits that are common in the landry's gene pools
of Asia. Yeah. And so, you know, breeding with those can be a bit of a challenge. However, doing
mass selections, you know, hunts based on big amounts, then putting your cuttings from
select mothers directly into flower in small pots with a high planting density, you can turn pretty
fast cycles and you can get really good yields. And so I would say if you have the ability to do
so, please attempt to follow this path as it's probably the most commercially viable. Otherwise,
the Indian land races from the Himalayas, they're going to be somewhat shorter than the Thais.
The difference would be 24 to 20 weeks or 20 to 60 weeks. Not huge, but still, if you're
somebody who struggles to maintain the plant's health during long flowering periods, then maybe
you're looking to shorten that down a little bit. You'll find that in the cultivars from higher
altitude and from more northerly locations. In general, your Thai varietals, your Cambodians,
your Laotians are going to be, depending on, you know, you and your growth. We've seen seven
meter plants in the village in Sagaing in Myanmar. So that's your upper limit. Yeah. So generally
speaking, LST, a lot of pruning, a lot of cutting back, topping, et cetera, these are techniques
that can benefit you. If you have the ability to let the plant grow without any sort of topping,
they do respond better to it. These plants are not used to being individually coddled.
They're land-raised plants coming from huge fields. The farmers do not pay attention to single plant.
The fields are too far away, too high up, too remote, et cetera. And so,
you know, a lot of them will never, ever have been topped before. And we've seen that given
the intersex traits being a little bit of an issue for some people, if you have the ability to not
stress them out, then, you know, don't stress them out. But at the same time, you know, we're
saying that in order to err on the side of caution. My personal experience has been incredibly
resistant, hardy, vigorous, tolerant plants that basically take whatever you throw at them. And I
find it funny to contrast that with the image that a lot of people have as these really sort of
finicky and difficult to grow plants. Like, no, not at all the opposite. They're difficult to make
them stop growing. You're trying to manage them. And that's a whole different, new, different set
of problems, basically. I think a lot of that is from people trying to bring in stuff that's been
acclimated to Thailand, outdoors, to indoors, and they just don't get it. Like, they're trying to
feed it, you know, GH nutrients, like just stuffing it full of nutrients and stuff. And that's not what
a lot of these land-raises want. They don't respond well to that. Of course, it'll make them finicky.
Yeah, yeah. You know, I think one place where the cannabis industry is really far behind in regards
to the wine industry or other, or teeth, is in terms of understanding soil compositions and
minerals, etc. The, you know, clearly fertile, loamy soils, lots of water, that is strong vegetative
growth. That is not what we're seeking to necessarily do, especially with plants that have
such a long flowering period, we're trying to reduce the overall cycle. In the wine industry,
for example, we apply such techniques as partial root dehydration, which will serve to stress the
plant in very tactical ways in order to induce specific physiological changes that we want to
see in the plant's phytochemical makeup, right? Or in the plant's phytochemical makeup. And so,
as far as that goes with these land-raises, you'll find that they're not growing in sort of like
beautiful, pristine soils. Like, you know, like we're talking about, like, if we're in Cambodia,
a lot of the time, this is going to be maybe a bit sad to hear, these days, the grows are no
longer next to the Mekong or sort of floodplain areas. They're in freshly deforested rainforests,
which is often being deforested for timber, or sometimes specifically for growing cannabis.
And so, in that regards, the jungle soils are often very, very poor. In Parvati Valley,
we see totally degraded soils from overuse of urea, and very, very, very acidic soils
on the bottom of slopes where everything's sort of draining down and accumulating,
and the plants are still thriving relatively. We've got different criteria here, too. When you're
growing 25 acres on a hillside, it doesn't really matter if you have one or two plants
that are a little bit raggedy looking, especially when no one's ever going to see the flower. It's
going to get rubbed anyway. So, it's a little bit of a different concern in that regard.
That makes sense. Yeah, the way we treat plants in the U.S. compared to these big,
massive fields is night and day different. How we look at it.
He's just modeling them. It's cute. Yeah, right?
Taking care of your babies. And for people that are worried about intersex traits and stuff,
just remember, if you're watching this, anything intersex, like any other trait in cannabis,
whether it's purple, whether it's a scent, it can be bred out or bred in. This is something that
can be selected for or selected against. So, people that are scared of things like that,
it's very easy to work out. Well, yes. Yeah, I agree with you. I think I'd like to offer some
perspective too. One, the land races are going through a pattern of cultivation, including
periods of time where many males are being culled before reverting to total open pollination for
a few decades, for example. That'll be enough to bring out intersex traits in your population.
And if you're talking about a hypothetical land race, which has been growing on a hillside,
or maybe that's by example on a floodplain for a long time, there'll be maybe a little portion
of the field that's raised above the water level. And so, every... Again, this is totally hypothetical
scenario. I'm just making up the story here. Every, maybe 60 years, you've got some catastrophic
floods. And once every cycle of floods, they happen to kill all the males. Literally every
single one. If the plant or the population did not have the intersex traits within it,
then that population would just disappear with the flood. And so, it's a survival mechanism
that's found in large cannabis populations. And so, it just goes hand in hand with land races,
but especially with land races that have gone through periods of intense cultivation, or which
are being grown according to the modern breeding practices of separating males.
It makes sense. That's some good context to add to it. So, is there any other strange you want to
talk about or get into before we wrap it up? Because I want to be able to point people to
some specific stuff they could check out on your site. Is there something other than what we've
mentioned? Sure. Well, we talked about the easier to approach ones, which again, I don't think that
there's maybe necessarily a huge difference in the skill curve required. But I will say that
Krunkravya is reputed to be the most potent, the strongest of all the land races grown in
territorial Thailand. And it's a wonderful kind of succession. We see phenotypes that are
really, really resonant with sort of fermented, sticky, sweet lemon character, which I'm very
personally fond of. It reminds me of my experiences with cannabis from Amsterdam in the late 90s with
amnesia hazes, which have this sort of incensy kind of lemon character. The best
Krunkravya expresses itself along those lines. And it's very, very potent. It grows with a pretty
unique bud structure, which I think will take a lot of you by surprise. If you look at it,
if you look at it from far away, it looks like a totally normal cannabis plant. You look at it
close up, it looks a little bit more like a mutant. The bud structure is very loose and
open and that allows for the UVs to penetrate inside. It's rare to find sedative narcotic
cannabis in Southeast Asia due to the long growing period, where the trichomes are taking a long time
to ripen. But we found that on the Krunkravya, there's such penetration all the way in that
we're seeing quite a high amount of photo oxidation. And so if you cut it at the right
time, it's got this clear, bright, racy cerebral high. But if you let it go all the way, which can
be as long as 28 weeks, you'll definitely see a lot of really dark colored trichomes and a much more
narcotic sedative effect. And personally, I've really enjoyed both expressions of the Krunkravya
in that regards. Otherwise, the Thai mango is like, you know, everybody loves mango. It's such
a delicious fruit. And you know, the mango expressions in Asia, whether that's, you know,
Mysuru or Thai or Cambodian mango or whatever else, they range from the sort of the green
mentholated camphor mango through to the more ripe, red, juicy mangoes. And people prize
different things. Generally, if it's called Mamuan, which is mango in Thai, it's going more for the
ripe mango spectrum as the green mango is something that's more commonly found across the
board in Southeast Asia. We've seen a lot. So it's the red mango that's sort of really
valued and prized. As far as that goes, the lowland areas where mango traditionally was
grown and selected are pretty much overrun. And so we are accessions in the north of the country
around Chiang Mai, with some smaller growers doing open pollinations in the sticks. Then you're
near like 80 to 100, 150 kilometers outside the city. And one of the groups is a Hmong group
in Doi Inthanon, the tallest mountain in Chiang Mai. And not only is it one of the most stunningly
beautiful places that if you just, if you could picture yourself smoking weed from that place,
in that place, it's really just heaven on earth. But the Thai mango from this Terroir, due to the
altitude and the cold temperatures, which is not that cold in Thailand, but a few thousand meters,
a thousand feet, gets a bit nippy, comes across really purple. And so we used to, back in the day,
sell that as the Thai purple mango and selling out like that every single time. So we actually just
took the purple out of the name because we wanted people to try other stuff, you know?
But yeah, you probably should check out the Thai mango if that's your thing, if you like purple
colors. Otherwise, we made some selections from individual black plants in Barbati Valley, namely
in Mirang, also in Tosh. I think Tosh is really the two to look out for, the Shoran and Goi fields.
They're really high altitude fields above the Tosh Kutla. And there we saw maybe like one
plant in 10 showing any coloration, one plant in 100 showing significant, and then one in a thousand
being like pure black or dark maroon red kind of purple. And so those plants we made selections
from and we separated those out. So if you're looking to phenohunt, those are going to provide
you a slightly better chance than the general population. Which one specifically is that?
Well, maybe I'll just explain to you how we split up. So we got the general populations,
which are from, we've asked the farmers to basically mix all this. That's actually what
they do by standard. They run plants all the fields and they sit in their house and a little
pile of seed accumulates below them. And we ask them just to sort through it, to clean it out,
etc. The selections is either us or members of our team or the farmers making selections. So it's
like a village selection. Then that's just when we've gone there for two, three days, for example,
we're going and looking for all the best plants that we can and putting the seeds aside for those
apart from the general population. And then there's the single plant selections, which you'll see,
or sorry, the lieu d'. We need to figure out an English word for this. I don't know what it should
be, man. But in French it's lieu d. It's like the climate. It's like the plot. The plot is such a
clumsy word. It's not very romantic. Yeah. Right. So I don't know. We need to come up with a word
for that. But yeah. So the plot selections are obviously selections made from individual plots.
As I said before, we're encouraging the farmers to rub from individual fields and to tell their
customers the name of the field that they're rubbing from as a way to increase the value of
the product. And so we're making selections from those two and then the individual plants.
And so, for example, it'll be like the Tochecutla, which is the name of the village, and then
Chorang, the name of the garden, and then the black selection. And so that's your single plant
selection from the Goy garden in Tochecutla. That's awesome to make all of them available
so people actually have a choice of where they're going to take it. Well, well, well, well, well,
well. Subscribers and Patreons get first dibs. So let's talk about this real quick because I didn't
even know this was a thing and I'm going to join myself. I went and bought seeds from you before
we ever spoke because I was so stoked about this. And the purchases from the site go to the farmers,
which is super important to me and noble as can be. And I commend you for it. But the
Patreon thing, I want to join. So let's talk about some of that. So, yeah, well, basically,
we talked a lot about incentivizing the communities. The way to do that is to, as we said,
to sell their seeds and to get them paid for it. And so, given that a lot of what we do
is touching on social issues, ones that deal a lot heavily with class, with race, with
colonialism, etc. And given that there was a need for me as a foreigner and for a couple of
other foreigners to do administrative slash communication roles, we felt that it wasn't right
to take a cut out of the seed sales. And so instead, what we set up was a Patreon program
and a subscription program on the website. And during the course of our work,
we, myself personally, when I'm traveling, for example, if I'm accessing the general population,
I'm going to go see the village and go pick up a restock on the general pop, a few others.
There's going to be like maybe along the way, some uncle who's like, yo, I got a few seeds here and
there. And that's stuff that we can't, it's not, because we're not in the business of doing
reproductions, right? Like, yeah, yeah. We don't get seeds from the hill tribes or whatever, and
then grow them out in Bangkok. No, no, no. It's directly from the store. So we almost, you know,
I mean, I have my own grow, but I have so many seeds. So we're like, okay, so we're going to get
these seeds, these small quantities, the rarest stuff. And that's going to be for the nerds,
you know, for the people who are really passionate and who want basically, you know, hand selected
seeds from people who are currently and actively sourcing in the traditional growing regions, you
know, hand selected point of origin seeds. And so that allows us to draw an income, which allows
us to do the recruiting work to bring new, you know, groups or communities into the collective.
And so it's working with a lot of synergy. Yeah, maybe we're not the best at keeping all the social
media up to date, which is probably why a lot of you guys might not have heard of us until now.
But we definitely, you know, we hold it down with the seeds. And, you know, I feel like everybody
involved is satisfied with the amount of genetics that we're getting from us, where we're doing our
best to stand by our people, you know, ultimately doing solid by the traditional indigenous land
race communities, communities, in some ways, takes bread out of people's mouth in the West.
And so we, you know, we want to be sort of as, as, as honest and as helpful with people in the West,
to give them, you know, as much of a room at the table as we can, you know, because at the end of
the day, we see this as a way to form new connections and new bridges between the communities
in different countries, you know, we're so disconnected right now. And with integration,
I think we would all benefit. Yeah, I would think so. I mean, that's what this is all about in the
end for, for us. And it's why we started the syndicate. And I mean, it's you guys are doing
your thing on the other side. And hopefully, you know, we were talking even more recently about
the strain database we're building and stuff. So hopefully, even we can continue to collaborate
and stuff like that. Like I've asked you to help with the land race portion of our strain database
that we're building that I'm really super stoked about, have something accurate. And yeah, there's
all kinds of fun collaborations that we can do and reach out. And some of it, to some people
seems like pie in the sky stuff, but I think we can accomplish a lot. I agree. It's time for
for a little bit of time to come out of the shadows a little bit. Yeah. You know, particular
countries like Indonesia, the rich tradition of cannabis are very, very, very oppressive. And so
it's not for lack of want, you know, we, you know, people have always wanted to form these
links and collaborate. But now the time feels right. And, you know, and so if we can, you know,
help some someone make a name for themselves by breeding the next Cannabis Cup winner
from pheno hunting, some land-based gene pool, they access through us,
that would make us happier than anything. We really we want to lift people up on everywhere we can.
Yeah.
Want to sit at the table with the Syndicate? Check out our Patreon in our link tree or description below.
Our merch site is officially live. We have all sorts of shirts, hoodies, and goodies to sort you
out and shipping is super fast. And most importantly, the quality is top notch. I've been saving old
designs for years for this purpose. So please check it out. Syndicategear.com. We also have
an underground Syndicate Discord where we get together and solve old strain history together
daily. It's an amazing community of learning away from IG and it's an amazing resource for old
catalogs and knowledge. We hope you join our union of breeders and growers. Come check it out.
Breeders Syndicate Update. Not only is our merch store up at syndicategear.com, but all episodes
will remain free. But what we need from you is interaction. If you're watching the show for your
first time, kick back and enjoy it. If you like the show, feel free to like it. But if it's your
second viewing, we ask a gentle person's agreement that you click the subscribe button. It costs you
nothing, but it helps us tremendously with the sneaky YouTube algorithm. Leaving comments,
telling not so his voice lulls you into a trance works as well. We hope you take the time to do
this. We try to put out the best possible shows for you we can and want to build this community.
Thanks again from all of us at the Breeders Syndicate family.
