Hello everyone, welcome to the Breeder Syndicate Riot Seeds germination
tutorial. I figured I'd just start from scratch, but the first thing I can't
really show you because there's no sink here, wash your hands. Wash them thoroughly,
wash them with soap, get up in there, hot water, super important, kill all the
bacteria. A lot of the germination process is defeated by bacteria. So yeah,
so we'll start with that. We have some fresh paper towels, brand new. We have a
clean surface for our wet paper towel to sit on in between before it
goes in bags. Also I'm gonna do a little advanced tutorial while we're doing this.
We have some old scissors here, but one of the first things we want to do with
our scissors as well as everything else involved, we want to clean those. I'm
using some Lysol wipes on these just because I've used these for trimming
and all kinds of crazy shit. But yeah, these scissors are nice, great. They're
small. If you'll notice, they're very small in my hands. You can get these on
Amazon pretty cheap and they're sharp and they're precise. When you're
doing advanced seed cracking, you want to use sharp, precise scissors that you can
control with your hands and that you can feel stuff through because you're gonna
feel that seed crack and you want to stop the second you feel it. So first off, what we're
gonna do is get our distilled water. So I filled this up, this beaker up with
500 milliliter distilled water. You know, a lot of people like to wet their paper
towels in distilled water. That's fine, but what also helps a lot is hydrogen
peroxide. There's been scientific studies done on this. I watched one recently the
other day on YouTube where, I can't remember if it was Utah University or
somewhere like that, did a study on cannabis and hemp seed germination rates
with hydrogen peroxide and hydrogen peroxide did increase the rates. So I, yeah,
I always tell people to use hydrogen peroxide. It's been an old standby for
years and it keeps the amount of decontamination down as best as you
can. That's important. Okay, so this is a brand new hydrogen peroxide. Normally I
do like a 1% solution, so 5 milliliters to 500, but I'm just gonna eyeball it.
There we go. Should be enough. Should be enough. Maybe, yep, right there. Okay.
A little more than 5, but it'll be okay for what our purposes are. Next step, you get
your seeds. Right here we have some ice cream bananas, which is banana OG, Blue
Bonnet. You want to open up the package. So open it up.
Everything got a good Lysol wipe down before this, so it's a little slippery.
Alright, so it comes sealed package, one of our shells, right? You want to take
your paper towels. Here's three. I only need one because we're only doing one
strain today, so one section of paper towel. You want to make sure that this is
all nice and mixed up, homogenous as best you can. I mean, there's no magnetic stir
under it, but for our purposes it'll be fine. You take your paper towel and you
fold it, and you gently dip it in the water, hydrogen peroxide mixture, and then
very importantly is the moisture content that you want to use. You want to wring
out the water pretty good. You want it to where there's enough moisture to the
to the embryo wanting to hunt its way out of the shell, but you don't
want so much moisture that it's waterlogged. So as you can see, no drippage,
no nothing. It's just wet. It's wet, not sopping wet. And then you'll take your
seed pack. Hopefully you'll be doing more than 10 to 13, but for this, like I said,
for our purposes it works well. So you put down your seeds. How many seeds are in
this? Five, ten, twelve seeds. Now I was going to show the advanced cracking
tutorial. So let's say you get some really, really nice, healthy, thick-shelled
Afghani type seed. So I'll pick the biggest shell we got here. Thickest shell.
Now sometimes some people may think that the seed isn't germinating, but what's
happening is that water isn't getting into its shell, right? So I've seen people
throw away so many good seeds thinking that they weren't germinating, they
weren't viable, but the problem was the shell was just too thick to let water in.
In these extreme cases, and it really is a case-by-case basis on whether I do
this or not, sometimes I'll do this with seeds that don't pop after, you know,
three days of being in the in the wet paper towel. I'll tend to take them out,
hand crack all the ones that didn't, just in case that's the issue. I don't normally
start off by hand cracking anything, but for this purpose, so you can see how it's
done, I wanted to show you. So we take it. Now there is a seam along the top. I know
this is not going to be perfect, but we have this seam along the top of the seed.
We gently rest the seed so it sits in there like that, long ways. And you
want to gently apply pressure, put it all the way at the very, very back, as far
back as you can go inside the thing. And when you start applying pressure, the
second you feel and hear the crack, you're good. Hopefully you were able to
hear that. And we hand crack that one, so we just then toss it back with the rest
of them. We close it up. Close up shop. Get a brand new Ziploc baggie. I like to
use the Vekord freezer baggies because the thicker plastic, heavier mill or
whatever. I put it in the baggie. I always take out most of the air for
whatever reason, just so it doesn't move around. We label the baggie. So this is
what ice cream bananas. I scream bananas. I scream bananas. And the last
thing, and I'm not going to show you here, but what I would do is I take painter's
tape or some kind of tape and I put it on the backside of like a cabinet or
something, you know, on the backside and tape it on there. We don't want it
getting a lot of light. We want it to be in the dark and we want it in a cool
place. We don't want it super hot. We don't want it cold, just mostly dark,
right? Some temperatures might be too cold for it. Check your
temperatures. You want to keep it right around, I don't know, 75, 80 degrees-ish.
That's about where I keep it. Yeah, so the reason that we tape it up on the
backside too is so gravity, as these seeds pop, gravity will start pulling the
tap roots downwards. And I don't know if you've ever tried like popping seeds,
throwing them in a drawer, like setting them in there and being cool with it to
pop. They curlicue and they're very hard to plant in whatever medium you're
going to plant them in. So that's why we suspend them so gravity brings them
downwards, at least so they're all in a nice pattern for planting in your
medium. I usually plant them into cocoa. Another little trick that I do, I let the
seeds stay in here until they have pushed off their seed shell. So they tend
to be long seedlings with good tap roots. And the reason for that is after
planting, if any kind of bacterial problem happens in whatever your medium
is, it'll be attacking that fresh root system. And if it has, you know, true
leaves past the cotyledons, if it has true leaves, then it can still intake
water and nutrients, do everything it needs to do while the roots try to
re-establish and survive. So yeah, those are my tips. I hope you all enjoyed it.
Again, 5 mils to 500 milliliters distilled water to, I'm sorry, hydrogen
peroxide to distilled water. Keep everything clean. Clean is the key.
Keeping it clean is the freaking key and I wish, if there's anything I can
impress on you with this, it would be that clean is key. Anyway, thank you for
checking everything out. Check out Breeder Syndicate Patreon. Go to Google,
type in Breeder Syndicate Patreon and it will take you there. We have a discord
where we talk and hang out and shoot the shit and high-five each other and talk
nerd stuff 24-7 really. We also watch movies together, certain shows pertaining
to the subject. Sometimes we watch fights together and it's cool. So come check it
out. Breeder Syndicate Patreon. Cheers!
