to that oh
Man, I got a ton of I know for one question around you know kind of antics antagonistic behavior
there's a lot of rumors that you had a secret Twitter account and you would kind of semi publicly post under a
Different name can you confirm it and I have you ever you know posted or interacted with UFO Twitter from an account other than the
official
I'm an Intel guy. I mean I
collect
It's not a yes or no
but but
You know
There's a lot of things that people do to confirm and deny information and to see if it's if something's real and legit
So, you know, I'm not saying that I did or maybe friends of mine had or family members had but you know
Collecting Intel is is what I do. That's always been what I've done
And so, you know people are I'm not gonna confirm or deny if I've had another account on to admit
First of all, I don't like social media
I I do look at social media from my my Twitter account, which is the only thing I have
I don't have Instagram or anything else
Simply because people are willing to take the time to write something. I think they at least Oh
Eyes on it, right? So someone's gonna take the time and say hey Lou, I really like what you did or hey, Lou
That really sucks what you did
You know
Honestly, there's a couple times where people have called me out
Thankfully because I may have made a mistake as everybody knows right on my Twitter page one of my my tenets is I will always
hold myself accountable and there's been I think two or three instances where I've said something and either wasn't taken properly or maybe I
Miscommunicated it and within 24 hours of being brought to my attention. I readdressed it. I said, oh, hey, you know Copa guys
You know great catch great call, you know
This was my intent apologies if it was lost in translation or if I made mistakes something that wasn't my intention and you know
Here we go. So I think
You know, that's that's that's one of the ways to hold yourself accountable is is through through listening to people even even with dissenting views again
Not not the hecklers out there people that are just trying to cause drama and trauma. That's not that's I don't look at those
But people who have honest questions or comments or concerns I look at those
What are any other follow-up questions rather before we get to
Appreciate that. Yeah
Let's move on to the game. I got what I wanted. All right, unless you got a question Michael
Oh, well, I do have one but before the game and then we can hit that one after it. Oh, yeah
You're Mike's still a little funky. Really? Yeah, this is what happens when you don't do shows in ten months, Michael
All right, like get it together. All right, so Lou
It's it comes in and out a little bit. Yeah, I'm not sure what's happening
But all right, let's let's see we get real quick. Hey, yeah, let me go a little further on this and let me
Let me give a little bit more direct answer to rather here
Look, there's things that I do with because I have that blue little check mark on my on my name that actually
Hinders me from doing a lot of things that I may want to do if I want to get on Twitter and ask somebody about
purple curtains
You know if I do that, it's it's it gets really tough
so
It's common for a lot of people to use anonymity in order to to to research things
I'll you know, I'll ask you the question rather
You know
Some people say well, why would you want to be anonymous? Well, but let's face it
I doubt that your real name is rather be splitting yet
You use it because it's helpful and effective because you're not quite comfortable
providing out your personal information
I get it and I respect that
But the same holds true for other people the same feelings and concerns and fears
You may have is precisely the same concerns and fears that other people have and probably including myself
That's a great I mean I feel like it's a soft yes, but I think it's a great answer man and and
Yeah, what do you what were you gonna say rather?
Well, yeah, I think it's not a crime
No, it's definitely not a crime that's for sure
But there is kind of a weird dynamic going on in UFO Twitter
And I think that you know
There was a an account that was almost an open secret that was yours
And I'm not sure if this one actually was yours or not
but there's a lot of people on you know, your supporters who would kind of clamor and
onto what that would say and kind of you know rallying cry and it it seems to kind of stoke fires of division rather than
you know uniting people and
You know, frankly I found that a little disappointing if that account really was yours, but you know, I do understand
I don't know you haven't asked and let me ask you this your crowd one
I I see that on there right now. That is not me. I'll tell you that. Yeah
Yeah, it was that that account was deleted. I think in November and someone took it over
So that account that's posting right now definitely isn't you but so let me ask you another question
If I may rather if I if I called your mother a hooker
How would you know me off? I'm not saying that I'm asking you hypothetically if I were to call your mother a prostitute
or
Your partner or your kid?
How would you feel about that?
Yeah, I would not like that. I I hope you don't know
No, no, no, and I'm not by the way for the record I'm not saying that but I'm asking you a hypothetical that you now being
Out. Okay. Let's say rather be squidding
What's your real name and everybody who's work and people were calling your family people disparaging things like that?
Knowing that it wasn't true and knowing that you couldn't come out and defend yourself publicly because it would never stop
The moment you feed the seagulls more and more seagulls come right the more. Yeah, I'm the trolls more and more trolls come
So, yeah, so I'm asked hypothetical how would you
Deal with that a to set the record straight with facts and data. Okay at the same time trying to
to
Continue to fill it in
We have people do to make disparaging comments on me all the time on Twitter and stuff and I personally I think the best strategy
is just to ignore it, you know, it's it's
So
What understood but if I if I were to accuse you of a crime and you don't address it I call you I say
You know what?
I caught you yesterday breaking and entering into a neighbor's house stealing everything that they have in killing their dog and leaving and by the way
It would depend on who's saying that right if it's someone of your statute stature
I probably would feel like I had to respond but if it's just some person
Anonymous person on the internet that I would not respond. See I disagree
I think an anonymous someone on the internet is has just as much voice as I do with the blue check or anybody else
This is where you and I disagree. I think everybody I'll be person in your audience right now
That's listening has just as much of an opinion and entitled to their opinion as you do and as I do and as everybody else
That's where I disagree
Just because you and I have a microphone in front of us doesn't make either one of us higher statue or more important
It makes us more of a target for sure and more susceptible to the hatred
but I it doesn't make the sting or the pain go any less and
You know, I've maybe I'm a bit old-fashioned. I come from a long family of
Revolutionaries my father was in the Bay of Pigs, you know, I chose a career that tends to be a little bit I guess
somewhat similar
But to me, you know people are the most important aspect of any conversation the entire topic of UFOs and UAPs
Doesn't mean anything if you don't have a conversation about people themselves and what it means because ultimately
It's how we deal with information as a species
Which is going to dictate how we deal with the topic of UFOs and therefore I think everybody should be part of that conversation
Everybody's entitled to an opinion and everybody's opinion should be taken equally until at which point it's proven that
They're not that they they don't they don't have equal voice because they're not interested in the truth. They're just interested in agitation and again
Let me let me say this. I'm not attacking you at all rather
I'm just I'm playing devil's advocate here because you asked me a very direct
You asked me a very direct question, and I think you deserve a very direct response
But also one that that that is helps me explain my position on the topic
I think
Everybody is entitled to defend themselves and I think it's terrible and repulsive when people can say things and you are expected not to defend
Yourself, especially your credibility when you're defended and fought for your country people friends of yours have died for that privilege
I take that very seriously when people accuse my wife or my kids of something
Yes, I take that very seriously and that's part of the problem
With society today, we don't have honor we've lost that somewhere we've lost the fact that
defending your loved ones and defending your friends and your family is something we should be doing and
Anybody who takes those attacks there should be consequences unless you have damn proof and evidence
And I this is why we are in the situation. We are in as a society because no one is held accountable
No one's held accountable and I think I personally think it's it's I think it's disgusting
I think this is why we're in the situation we are right now. And again, not I'm not blaming you
I'm not attacking you here rather just giving you my honest feeling my opinion from my heart
So yeah, I just like to add, you know
All the the attacks that are on Twitter anyone who's paying attention at all can can see right through that and that's obvious
Yes, all that all that stuff. So, you know, I I commend you and I can see how that would be, you know
Not not make you feel great and you yeah, but yeah, it is it is
Yes, my opinion as well. I mean look we're humans
