What's up everyone? Sorry I'm still getting set up here. Waiting for everyone to show
up too. We will be joined shortly by Natso and 2Me Genomics and we will be
doing our talk on HPLV. So I'm pretty stoked we made it here to this moment.
I've been sick all week so apologize I'm a little fucking slow today. I'm trying
my best. I really am and I didn't want to miss out on this because it's important
to me that everybody gets this info. So yeah.
My fans allowed? I think Brynn's in here. Maybe Brynn can help with that.
I'll grab it. You can? Yeah. Okay got Natso coming in. Maybe if this works like it
should. There we go. I'm here. What's up? Now I just have to wait for Tessa from
2Me. There she goes. 2Me Genomics. Let me look her up now.
Invite to join. 2Me. There we go. I can invite and she can jump in. I have a
whole bunch of notes. Do you? I do. Really? I am semi-prepared. Hi Tessa. Nice to see you.
Yeah good to see you. Can you guys hear me all right? Absolutely. I'm Matthew. This is Natso Dog
and we are the Breeder Syndicate. Nice to meet you guys. Nice to meet you. Thanks for inviting
me on tonight. This is awesome. No I think the whole community needs to know more about what's
going on with the HPLV. How it's being transmitted through clones. How rampant it is or isn't and how
scared they should or shouldn't be. All of the above. So I don't know in a conversation like
this do you want to start with where would you want to start a patient zero or do you start with
what we're dealing with? Well maybe the best place to start is to just kind of explain what a
viroid is. That's a great place. That was one of my questions I thought would be a good place to
begin. Yes. Yeah. So what is a viroid? Viroids are one of the simplest forms of life that exists on
the planet if we can even call it life. As opposed to other organisms like bacteria or fungus or even
viruses they don't have anything on the outside to protect their genetic material. So most
organisms have like a fat layer or a protein layer. Viroids are simply a free floating tiny piece of
genetic information and that's all that they are. So when I say tiny the human genome has about
three billion letters or base pairs. Viroids have 250. So we're talking about a really really small
life form and a lot of people actually refer to them as fossils that are left over from basically
the beginning of life when the theory is that it was just RNA. And so they're kind of a remnant of
that primordial Earth time when all life was replicating RNA. And these tiny little things are
really infectious in plants. Yeah. Yeah. Are they then considered are they parasites? Because they
can't I mean they can't exist without contacting some other more complex form of life right and
infecting it. Exactly. They are 100 percent dependent on the plant metabolism to replicate it to help it
you know transport all around the plant to do everything that it does. So they're the tiniest
molecular parasite that we know of. Yeah. And what we're working with with this current
Hops latent virus or viroid I should say. There is a difference right. A major difference. Yes. Yeah. So so just to clarify and because there is actually a Hops latent virus also just to make things confusing.
But viruses have some type of outside protection for their DNA and it's often like a protein coat that
goes outside. Viroids are just the naked genetic information. So they are distinct things. And viruses are more complex than right. They have more of those.
They're they're they're viroids are even smaller than viruses. Correct. Yes exactly. So viruses not only do they have that outside coat but they actually encode
information that forces the cell to make special little molecular machines called enzymes that will that will help the virus to replicate. Viroids do not encode even for a special machine. So they are completely dependent on hijacking the machines in the plant and forcing them to replicate the viroid instead of doing what they're supposed to be doing.
So I mean maybe maybe another part of the beginning and like you could talk about the beginning for you but I thought maybe it would be interesting to talk about the beginning for us. OK. So there was there was an aspect like you know because I'm older or whatever like in the 90s.
None of the stuff that we're probably going to talk about later as far as like you know preventing transmission was used. People use the same razor blades. There wasn't very much disease. There wasn't very much worry going on. A lot of these things were kind of unheard of. And because it was a clandestine thing and very small circles even if a circle got infected with something it didn't spread that much.
So during like the I.G. period we had some good friends of ours that you know they would you know clone trading happens and all that right. And all of a sudden people started experiencing something that we call duty. Yes. Right. Duds. All of a sudden the plant went from being healthy and happy to unhappy.
And for a long time we didn't know if it was one thing. We didn't know if it was a multitude of things. We just observationally could see that some plants resin production would go way down. Their health would go way down. We had some friends before they even knew. It almost reminded me a little bit of like like when the early part of the AIDS epidemic but in plants where people didn't know how it was transmitted. People didn't know it existed.
People didn't know how to take precautions for it. And then by the time that we figured out like what it was and we can start talking to people like you. It's everywhere.
Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. I. So hoplite and viroid itself was characterized in hops in the 80s. And because hops plants are so genetically similar to cannabis at some point the viroid sort of came into cannabis. But nobody knows exactly when this happened. And just like you said I suspect it's been circulating for a really long time.
And the negative about that of course is that by the time we realized it like you said it's everywhere. And you know it's just been going unchecked for so long that it's really become like a cannabis pandemic at this.
You know that's going to lead to a lot of questions for me actually because I think there's like there's like two things here. One there's like the the aspect of figuring out what it does. Right. And then there's like best practices for how we can slow it down.
You know one of the interesting aspects is that there's a there's a thing that Matt and I called bro science. Yeah.
Bro science where you know there's a lot of rumors because cannabis has been in the shadows for a long time. It hasn't had the ability for like UC Davis or the University of Iowa or various scientists to study these things. So we have to make we have to like observe and guess.
Right. And so then there's so then at times then there's there's a I think there's a lot of you know I watched a previous interview that you were in and I think enormous amounts of people were shocked when you said that like 99 percent alcohol does nothing to it.
Yeah. That was a big shocker. Yeah.
Right. And then I've been in I've been in greenhouses where they had like the torches attached to the end of like propane canisters and they were cleaning their tools in between. And then you were like oh that doesn't do anything very much either. Right. Yeah. Yeah.
And so not that we need to go into all that right this second. But I just mean that I think there's a lot of misinformation.
Right. And just like any other kind of virus or anything going around the best way to figure it out is so people know what works and what doesn't. How how do you even get infected. You know can bugs infect you.
You know can touching plants infect you. Is it just runoff and razor blades. Is it. There's a whole host of stuff that I think most people are still pretty ignorant of.
Yeah. And it might be it might change over time. But you know you seem to be someone that like has some real experience and like what is actually in testing turning out to be effective.
How did how did to me come into testing for HPLT. How did you come into testing for cannabis anything.
Yeah. So so basically I can just give you a really quick two minute background on the company. So we started to me about two and a half years ago and it was actually started originally by myself and my husband who is also one of the scientists in the company and one of our entrepreneurial friends.
And basically we were both at the end of our postdocs. We kind of decided academia wasn't for us and we wanted to take what we knew how to do like all of this inventive you know cutting edge science that was going on in academia and bring it into an industry or a geography that really needed that the tools we could make or the information that we could share.
Yeah. And so we started the company and then about a month after we started it hit and everything stopped and we all the plans that we had made for our brand new startup were completely squished. So we said well OK we'll just jump into it and see if we can help out. And we started doing that. We made a COVID diagnostic kind of a point of care and on site test and we ran a COVID lab for the university and kind of at a similar time we were doing a COVID lab for the university.
And kind of at a similar time we had somebody contact us who had a grow and she was having issues with hot plate and by right and she couldn't find a place where she could reliably test or whatever and she asked if we could help out. So we designed a test for her kind of at the same time that we were also doing like a ton of QPCR testing for COVID.
And it just kind of grew from there by word of mouth. But once we got into the industry and I started meeting the people and understanding what was going on I was like cannabis is absolutely the industry for us because we wanted to make a difference. We wanted to take what we knew how to do and help people. And I think in this industry we can add a lot of good insight and tools to really help people out.
So that was kind of how we ended up here. My husband's overjoyed because we've had a tent in our basement for like a decade.
Oh that's awesome.
Yeah this has always been his favorite hobby and now he's like now it's my career.
Well that's got to be awesome for him for sure.
He's always down there taking notes and stuff so and now he doesn't.
I mean there's I mean this hoplite and there's just one aspect of it but I do think it's interesting that you know you look at other crops and you get to stand on decades of research.
There's a lot of information that's out there. There's a lot of breeding. There's a lot of resources for people.
And then all of a sudden you have this thing that's trying to make legal and it's a multi-billion dollar crop and nobody knows anything about it.
Other than like in terms I don't mean anything I just mean in the sense that like the type of money and energy that gets brought to bear on other agricultural crops.
We're like in the infancy of hemp and cannabis being looked at at all in that fashion.
Yeah yeah all the other crops have had decades of research, federal funding, you know lots of grants and money and academic institutions supporting them and you know cannabis doesn't really get to benefit from much of that.
We have a lot of work to do a lot of research to do.
And I think sadly too I think the onset of legalization is really what and even like maybe medical in the 215 era is really what created the problem.
And what I mean by that is that in the original era that I was in like I said you either made your own clones or started your own seeds or got them from a close associate and it was very small circles.
Once you started being able in the 215 era and the medical era with a medical card to go into dispensaries or go to nurseries and buy your clones.
Right and now especially in the legal market like in California but in other places too where they've mandated that you sort of have to get you have to have a nursery license to even provide plant matter to most farms.
They sort of centralized that aspect which meant that when some of these diseases got into some of those centralized nurseries it went everywhere like really quickly.
Right and so and then you know one of the things we don't know is for instance like how long can it persist on surfaces how long can it persist in soil you know all these different types of things.
Because what's happening to people is that they're getting they're getting clones from a nursery and they're to me up to my knowledge there is no regulation or penalties for a nursery selling you diseased or infected products.
Yeah right I mean that's another thing the cannabis industry you know suffers from is that a lot of these other industries these pathogens are highly regulated and there you know there's government mandates of what to be tested and how to be tested.
How to decide if the testing lab is good enough or has done enough validation but yeah there's no requirements right now in cannabis which means that you know lots of stuff's going on.
Lots of stuff's going on and that I think I don't think with regulation they intended for that to happen but it was simply like an outgrowth of forcing everyone to go to a few nurseries.
And then this gets into a few nurseries and they're cloning for everyone and they're not changing their equipment they're not taking precautions and so it spreads from maybe one or two varietals through their whole thing and then everyone is getting infected plants.
Yeah and you know and so there's definitely been already legal forms that have failed because being infected and reduced yield reduced quality you know that type of thing.
So I guess maybe we should go on to like maybe the first thing that we should we should we could discuss is like because there's a lot I was I was thinking of but like what's the best way like let's say that you have a plant in your garden that has it like a mom plant.
What's the best way to keep it from spreading because you might not know that you have it so you might as well act like you do right.
Exactly. Yeah. I mean that one thing I was going to say is that you know kind of above or throughout all of the recommendations to keep it from spreading the most important thing that people can do is to acknowledge that this is everywhere and nobody is immune from it.
And it's not you know a them problem you know it's it's it's a ubiquitous issue. And in order for it to be addressed the first thing you have to do I guess I don't want to sound like an addiction counselor or whatever or but is to admit that there's a problem.
Yeah. All of us need to be taking precautions you know from home grower all the way up to multi-state operator MSO to make sure that we're not spreading it through the industry you know passing it on to other people that kind of thing.
So the most important precautions to keep it from spreading would be sterilization. So that's one of them that's very critical. So you need to be sterilizing your tools. And there's a lot of information out there flying around about what works and what doesn't. And I've even heard a scientist contradicting each other which I'm sure is super frustrating for everybody out there.
But I've heard that one thing in one podcast and another thing in another. So I actually went through all of the literature and consolidated into one document which you guys can find on our website if you want to. And they basically tried 53 different things in the literature with scientific experiments.
And there were only five of the chemicals or treatments that worked. And there was only one where they were able to show worked on multiple viruses or fibroids in multiple crop species. And that was bleach. 10 to 20 percent bleach 60 seconds. I know I say that all the time. So here I'm saying it again. Use bleach. So you want to sterilize your tools as you move from plant to plant.
You can have a couple pairs of scissors or razor blades or whatever all sitting in the bleach and just pull a clean one out. Do your cuts. Put it back in the bleach and grab a different one for the next plant. If you get sap or whatever on your hands you are going to want to be wearing gloves. And you can put some bleach in a spray bottle. Splay your hands and rub it around just like you put on hand sanitizer or something like that.
And you said 60 seconds?
60 seconds for the tools. Yes.
And does that include your hands like if you had gloves on and you're rubbing it. Does that mean like similar to COVID if you if you wash your hands that long it's going to kill it.
Yeah. So so basically if you spray it on your gloves and rub it around and just leave it there it's going to end up sitting there for 60 seconds anyway. So you don't have to rinse it off your hands. You can just let it dry on there. And that's exactly how we do it in the lab to be honest too because you know contamination there is also an issue.
So you know if you get plant matter on a table or whatever just sterilize it clean it up really quick. You can use some bleach there too. Don't let debris and whatnot sit around on the floor on the tables. So make sure to be sterilizing all those surfaces.
Let me throw in another question that might be slightly technical or whatever. But does it matter what kind of bleach? Because I have I have heard that for instance say that like sodium like normal household bleach for your clothing or whatever sodium is a little bit more unstable and if it gets a little bit dirty it can get inert fairly fast.
I've heard that like pool bleach is stronger and more effective and it's more stable. Right. So there's different types of bleach I guess you go to the store and you could get you know splashless bleach versus cheap bleach versus pool bleach. You know some of them are calcium chloride. Some of them are. So I just wondered if if there was a difference there or you had a preference like in your lab what would you use?
Yeah. So in our lab we use good old sodium hypochlorite which is your regular household bleach. The critical point here is not the kind of bleach or the splashless or whatever. It's the concentration of the active ingredient. So you want to make sure that the final concentration of the bleach the active ingredient is above 0.5 percent.
So that means if you're making a 1 to 10 or a 10 percent solution the household bleach needs to have at least 5 percent of the active ingredient. And most of them do. In fact I think the lowest one that I know of is 5.25 percent. So if you're making a 1 to 10 solution or a 1 to 9 which would make a 10 percent solution should be the right concentration.
Because I see a lot of people out there going and using pool bleach or different forms of bleach because they thought that the household bleach was inferior and wasn't as strong or didn't work as well and it was risky to only use that. And so I just thought like some clear direction on it seems like it seems like you know cheap available household bleach will be fine.
Yes. And almost all of the studies in fact I think all of the studies have used sodium hypochlorite. So you do want to make it up fresh every day because you are correct it does lose effectiveness especially if it sits at a dilute solution. If it gets really saturated with plant material it'll also start to lose effectiveness. So you're just going to want to dump it out of whatever your little jar is and fill it up with some more 10 percent bleach.
You can also make it up at that 20 percent concentration which would be four parts water one part bleach and then it'll last a little bit longer. Just to make people feel more comfortable they actually did do a study where they asked how long it was effective for and they made a dilute solution of 20 percent bleach and it was still inhibiting transmission up to 30 days.
This was not saturated with plant material. It was just kind of hanging around.
So you could make a spray bottle for instance of 20 percent and it would be and it would be staying contained. It wouldn't be getting contaminated by plant material and you could use that to spray your gloves or whatever for quite some time is what you're saying.
Yeah. Now I would definitely recommend making it up fresh. But if you know there was a miscommunication or you weren't sure when it was there is some flexibility there.
Leach is cheap.
Leach is cheap and it's very effective.
Because I remember I first saw that interview with you where I was that I was that we were I was at a good friend's nursery. And like I said they were all heat sterilizing their tools.
And then I just watched you and you were like oh that doesn't work. And I was like oh no. Because they're trying to do best practices and do what they can to make sure it doesn't work. And then all of a sudden they're doing something that's ineffective.
Yeah. Yeah. So that that was actually tried in the literature six seconds in a propane blowtorch and it reached an average temperature of four hundred and thirty degrees Fahrenheit and it did not stop the transmission.
So I mean now this I should I should qualify all of this. Almost in fact none of these experiments were done with hop latent thyroid. All the virus have a very similar structure and metabolism in the cell.
So we're extrapolating information from other viroids because a lot of research has been done in other plants.
That makes sense. I was there was one of my other questions is how because there's not there's not a lot of money yet coming into this type of stuff like how much specific research is even going into it.
Yes. Yeah. And that's not much right now. We're trying to bridge that gap. We actually started a collaboration with Texas A&M and we are we're starting research into some of the really basic questions.
Seed transmission you know levels around the plant that kind of thing. So we're trying to encourage more academic cooperation and and more research.
So maybe we could ask a series of questions and you could say I know I don't know and or explain.
So obviously it seems like sterilizing tools is very important. So like if you're taking cuttings that would be a primary method of transmission. Right.
Is what about what about runoff from watering plants.
Yes. So what I'm going to tell you is what's been demonstrated in the literature. So for a by right called potato spindle tuber viroid which is in the same family as hoplite and by right with a very similar structure.
They showed that the by right is in high level in the roots. And that's the same in hops plants for hoplite and by right.
The by right leaks from the roots into the water. And if a water tomato plants with by right containing water. Those plants became infected with the by right.
They also showed in that paper that the by right remained infectious for up to seven weeks. So in the water.
So.
That research wasn't done in cannabis. It wasn't done with hoplite and by right. But I think there is enough demonstrated evidence in the literature for it to be a concern.
Yeah. OK. Think about. So that I was going to ask how long can it persist. You're saying that it could persist up to seven weeks is a long time.
Seven weeks is a long time. Yes. On surfaces they've done these experiments and they've tested it out to 24 hours and shown that it does survive for 24 hours on most common surfaces.
Unfortunately they didn't go beyond 24 hours so it could be longer but it can persist for that long.
What about for instance insect vectors things like thrips mites root aphids. You know I mean I know obviously we can catch malaria from a mosquito. We can get Lyme disease and other stuff from ticks.
How worried are you about bugs spreading it from one plant to another.
Yes. So I would not be at all surprised if that was a method of transmission. As far as I'm aware, there was only one study in the literature done with hoplite and by right on bug transmission and it was done with aphids
and hops plants and they were unable to show vector insect vector transmission with aphids. Now that does not mean that aphids wouldn't spread it in cannabis. It doesn't mean that other types of insects wouldn't spread it. And a lot of by roads are split spread by insects.
The research just isn't there yet to one way or the other as to whether or not it can be spread by insects for hoplite by road in cannabis.
Because to me especially like as a you know as somebody who uses the sun quite often I was I was talking about it with some other farmers and you know we can you can do all these best practices and you can do all these things yourself and be very self contained and have your mother room be perfect.
And then you know some thrips blow over from the neighbor's garden and you're and you're in trouble. Exactly. Yes. And I mean I should say when we're talking about hoplite by road right now but there are viruses and cannabis out that affect outdoor more. And those are spread by insects. So like curly top coming from leaf hoppers and stuff like that.
Yeah. So you definitely want to be concerned about insects because they are a big vector for a lot of different pathogens.
The seed the seed one's probably going to be the one that we're going to hear the most and leading up to this interview for like since I announced it I have heard so many answers on so many people so confident on the exact percentage of transmissibility in cannabis seeds for sure.
Yeah. And wildly different percentages that they think are as well. Yes. Some very low some quite much higher. So it's you know we what are your what is studies that you're seeing show as far as seed transmission.
Yes. So there is one study in hops showing that seed transmission of hoplite and by road in hop plants is 8 percent.
Yeah.
Because it's going to be wildly different for each batch of seeds each cultivar. And you know obviously if your plant is on fire with hop late and by road that that percent transmission might be higher than a low level infection. Maybe you see nothing or 0 percent transmission.
So pretty par for the course with cannabis like anybody who tries any serious scientific studies into cannabis sexual expression by ethylene production or inhibit inhibition. They find that it's just so variable in every single it's not down to strain.
It's down to not just the plant. It's down to the plant in that specific environment. And it's just there's so much variability to even be taking steps at numbers like that until there's like this wide ranging study that just hasn't been allowed to be done yet.
So seed transmission you would probably it's fair to say is just it's variable or requires a lot more study before we know it's sort of an educated guess at best at this point.
Yes I would say there's probably enough evidence to say seed transmission happens or can happen but there is not enough studies out there and high enough numbers to come up with a percentage. And that's going to take a lot of research.
You know certainly not in cannabis specifically right. Like the studies were done in hops. So this is a completely different beast even though they're very similar in structure.
I was almost you know I'm by no means a scientist but when I was reading about the viral it's trying to like prepare for talking about tonight it almost made me think of like some of these viral it's have some similarities with enzymes and then like they're not actually alive.
They're sort of like waiting for a reaction to happen like to encounter something that then triggers what they can do.
Yeah that's exactly how it works.
So they you know one of one of the aspects that you know so like it you know can if it persists then it can just be sitting there in a seed or it can be it can be you know do you think people can transmit it by touching.
So potentially the way that the viral so the viral needs to gain access via a breakpoint.
So if for example you're trimming your plants and you have goo on your hands and then you touch another plant and you even if there's a little micro tear or you know just a little breakage of a stem as you're touching you can spread it like that.
But there needs to be like some SAP exchange between a sick plant and an a healthy plant that has a little opening for this for the sick for the infected SAP to get in.
So for lack of a better way to look at it like healthy skin would prevent you would have to have a cut or abrasion or something like that in order to give a vector for it to go in.
Correct.
Yeah.
There has to be some type of even miniature mechanical damage for it to access the plant.
OK.
One of. So I guess do you know anything about because this is the other part of it that is really harmful is obviously like cannabis is under a lot of financial pressure right now.
Legalization has not been smooth.
There's a lot of odd regulations going on and people are really feeling it.
And you know one of the biggest aspects of hop latent is the expense of trying to figure out how to deal with it once you have it.
Right. Yes.
And you know there's there's also you know one of one of the one of the groups that spread it a bunch.
One of the nurseries then later came out with a cure.
Right.
You know I've seen a lot of stuff about tissue culture marist M.
He treatments various to be honest very expensive and time consuming treatments that you know some people have been jumping on because they have a favorite cultivar they have a favorite strain.
They don't know where they can get it again and it's infected.
And so there's a big push to like I want to save this thing rather than just throw it away and give up.
Right. Yeah.
But I see a lot of conflicting information on whether or not this stuff actually works.
Yes. Yeah.
So tissue culture can work.
It is not 100 percent effective.
It's not going to work the same on every cultivar.
So here we go again.
And it's going to depend on how infected the plant is.
When people are doing this heat treatment thing.
So it was shown in hops that if you subject the plant to high heat like 35 degrees Celsius I think is the temperature they use the level of the viral will decrease.
It doesn't go away completely but it goes down enough that when they dissect the apical Mary Sam they have a higher chance of not getting any infected material along with the apical Mary Sam.
So you can clean it with tissue culture.
It is a lengthy process and it takes a long time and not everyone works.
So if they I mean what they do is they clean it then they you know they they they grow a bunch up and they have to test each of them get rid of the ones where it didn't work and just keep on testing.
They usually are testing for a really long time before they can be sure that they've cleaned it completely.
And that's because the apical Mary stems not in the vascular system.
Is that why the virus is there.
And that's what they try to keep it like that little bit from any kind of contamination on the sides and.
Yes.
Yeah.
So it is excluded from that region that the like the stem cells in there.
But you do you have to be super careful and know exactly what you're doing to get rid of all that vascular tissue because that tissue does have a hoplite virus in it.
So I'll maybe that leads to another question then because I've seen people who have had inconclusive testing.
You know when it comes to testing for hoplite which is obviously extremely frustrating because you want to get a negative test and you want to be like OK I'm in the clear right.
My plan is clean.
But what what it seems like is that almost like with COVID or something else.
If you're heavily infected it's almost always a yes that it'll pick it up.
But maybe if you're only lightly infected it could come back negative.
Right.
And you might.
So how many.
What maybe walk us through like if somebody was worried that their plant wasn't performing the right way or looked a little sickly.
How many tests how far apart what protocol should they have to like ascertain whether or not they're infected or not.
Yes.
OK.
So.
So first to understand why you.
There's such a frustration with getting a negative test and a positive test or part of the plant's positive and part of its negative is understanding how viroids actually move through the plant.
So when a plant gets infected the viroid moves through the tissue until it reaches the vascular system.
Once it's in the vascular system it basically has to hitch a ride on the movement of the sap of the plant.
And where it's going to go is dependent on where the sap from that branch is currently traveling.
So viroids are going to move for what they call a source to sink type movement.
So they're going to move towards areas of the plant that are experiencing active growth at the time the plant was infected.
So you can imagine if it's a middle branch and it travels to the vascular system it's going to move up towards the new growth.
But those lower branches are less likely to receive viroid.
So not every part of the plant is going to get the same load at the same time.
So the reason that they say oh submit multiple samples is we don't you don't since you don't know when the plant was inoculated and what the source to sink flow was at the time.
You have to grab a bunch of different spots of the plant to feel confident that you've cased enough areas that the statistical probability of catching it is high enough.
I will say we did run a little study. It's not quite ready for publication yet or putting on our website.
But Capricorn Nursery was gracious enough to take in a couple positive, four positive plants actually.
And they took samples for us all over the plant. You know new growth, old growth, stems, roots, everything.
And the part of the plant that was the most predictive of infection was the roots.
We got 100 percent success rate when we tested the roots.
And if you think about it this makes a lot of sense because the roots are always growing.
And they're always going to have nutrients from the foliage moving into the roots.
So I would say if you were going to pick a part of the plant to pick some root tissue as well as some petiole tissue around the plant.
Just because this was a preliminary study it was four plants and I don't want to base someone's diagnostic on you know a small study like that.
But I think it's suggestive enough to also be submitting root tissue.
One of the ways we had a good friend of ours who experienced at the time what we called dutting.
Which you know I'm a collector of old and rare and unpopular things.
And so for people like us it's really scary you know because in cannabis there's not very many people that are willing to hold on to a wide diversity of genetics.
Especially if they're not currently profitable. Right.
And so to have something like this rip through your collection of possibly old unpopular not backed up by very many people sometimes not backed up by anyone.
It's pretty scary and one of the things that he learned or he guessed was that it was his runoff on sharing on trays and things like that was that it was infecting things.
And so he instituted a program where like every single mom was elevated and drained away.
So that no runoff would ever touch another plant.
Yeah. Right.
And I think that's that's a good idea.
And it's not just for hop latent viroid.
There's a lot of root fungal pathogens that spread through the water and shared water.
If you're trying to prevent pathogens is not recommended because it's it's an excellent way for a bunch of pathogens to move around.
I can tell you that before we ever heard the term hop latent a lot of us were considering gutting to be an aggressive form of fusarium.
Yeah. You know and we were you know there was a lot of there was a lot of like you know our research going into like well how do you cure that.
How do you get rid of that because we couldn't do the testing.
We didn't know what it was. We were just observationally seeing what was going on.
And so basically I guess what you're saying is you think is it fair to say that you think that the vast majority of transmission is happening via runoff and via cloning with contaminated tools.
So I would say the vast majority is happening via mechanical transmission with tools.
I suspect that there is a percentage of transmission going along with water transmission.
Although I don't have published evidence to show that.
We did we did take some tubing from a water emitter from a facility that had an outbreak and we just used the tube itself in the PCR and we were able to amplify hop latent byroid from the tube.
So it was in there and it was stuck to the rubber on the inside of the tube.
Whether or not it was sufficient to infect a plant you know I don't know.
But it lived there.
It was there.
And I want to make sure that I answer the question how many times to test your plant.
Yes.
Certain that it's negative. You need to test it at least at least twice three to four weeks apart so that if it was missed because it was a very early infection you give that plant long enough to have enough of a systemic infection and a high enough load that you can you can capture.
The second time around.
And honestly I would I think people if you know they're you're really trying to be careful.
I would test your mother plants periodically you know on a continual basis on a routine basis.
Not everyone has the ability to do this.
Yeah.
And it's difficult but we in recent years with the influx of just a bunch of horrific things that started getting spread around not just hop latent but root aphids you know we call them super mites which are basically two spotted mites that have been trained for decades to grow resistant to many pesticides.
Every every pesticide.
You know over just like any other thing overuse of certain kind like you know like overuse of antibiotics or whatever and all of a sudden you have.
So you know there's basically I guess what I'm saying with that is that you know you would recommend let's say that you bring in something new or old that you're excited about and you quarantine it.
You would recommend at least two tests four weeks apart and get both of those negative before you would feel confident to even want to move that plant into your larger safer mother room of hopefully clean genetics.
Yes absolutely.
I think strict quarantine for anything new.
Two tests for economically critical pathogens and I would probably add for Siri maxi spore him to that list because you don't want that floating around your grow either separate tools.
You don't want to be using the same tools.
And if you're thinking about the workflow in your facility obviously don't start in the quarantine room and then move to your mom room.
Sure.
So this is.
Yeah.
And this is exactly what the US government does right when when plants come in they go in strict quarantine and they're tested and observed before they're allowed into the country.
Yeah.
So.
So.
Another another aspect of that that I find interesting and I'd love some clarification on is that you know when people are doing clones.
Right.
And obviously especially like in commercial instances where you're taking hundreds or even thousands of clones on a work shift.
Right.
You can do stuff like you can do what we talked about earlier where you could have bleach and you could have rotating tools and you can clean all that and you can have you know fresh starting material whether it's rock wool or plugs or whatever.
But one of the things that I know about cannabis that everyone does is most of the time every single stem goes in that rooting gel or goes in that dip and grow or goes in that hormone.
Right.
And trying to figure out how to isolate hormone or rooting gel or whatever for each specific plant themselves and not mixing that that is a bottleneck.
And so you know how expensive.
Yeah.
How how risky is it to let's say you dip a clone into dip and grow for three or four seconds.
How much.
But it's a fresh wound.
Right.
Yeah.
You just cut.
How much risk is that and how and what what practices could people even institute in order to not make that a vector for transmission.
Yeah.
So if you cut a clone you know and you have this huge open wound it's and it's it's infected it's going to be seeping hoplate and thyroid into that solution.
And if you get a clone that's infected and you dip another one in that solution you're you've basically created an inoculum and you're using it to inoculate every clone after that that's dipped into that solution.
That's devastating.
Yeah.
I mean just to be honest you know I get it's the reality of it but it just it just leads to a whole series of it's basically like you want to have a different vessel for for cloning material for every single plant.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And I mean I don't know if you know maybe you can put it in an egg carton you know so you just have a little bit in each each spot or something something.
I mean I hate to break in but like it even goes down to like even different parts of the goddamn plant.
If it's a big enough plant because some of that might have more viral load than the bottom half and you may actually increase your chance of inoculating it when you might otherwise not have and got grabbed a clean branch somewhere left.
I mean I was almost thinking of like I mean you could have permanent you could have like you know 20 different glass shot glasses.
That you have a little bit of different grow or a little bit of your hormone or whatever in each one and then as soon as you're done with it you dump the excess out into something and you drop it into bleach and you move on to the next one and then by the time.
But something like that would have to be because you could sterilize it and just wait a minute or two right and it would be clean.
Yes.
So if you had say 10 shot glasses you could go from plant to plant and not spread it because I will tell you that 99% of people out there that are taking precautions are still using a centralized dipping solution of some kind.
Yeah.
That's just the industry standard.
That's just how it how it works.
Yeah.
That's definitely if you are concerned at all that any of your plants have hoplate and viroid then you're not going to want to be sharing anything that has touched sap and then dip another plant in it with a gaping wound because you're just going to spread it.
Right.
That makes that makes excellent sense.
So I have a question.
Sure.
So you see a lot of plants probably that come in that are negative for hops late and vibrate but people suspect them of being dotted.
Now when you see this negative thing pop up for the hops late and what I mean do you test it for what else it could be.
And at that point what is the next most common form of things that people are calling dotted that you're seeing.
Yeah.
So beyond hoplate and viroid the percentage of plants that have other viruses you know at least that we know of is pretty low.
It's usually hoplate and viroid if they're seeing viral like symptoms.
Other things can cause stunted growth like fusarium, pythium right because these things are chained on roots and so you're going to see slow growth or it'll look like a nutrient deficiency kind of.
Yeah.
So we're definitely seeing those pathogens also and just a little sidebar.
We're also seeing that those pathogens can come in through people's water sources especially if you're not like you know following all the recommendations for how your water is filtered.
Yeah.
I would highly recommend that people test their water systems periodically just to make sure that they don't have anything growing in there and they're watering their plants with like pythium water.
Well so yeah that is I mean that's something I haven't done this in a long time but 20 years ago I was a mostly hydroponic person.
And when you're growing with water culture and like nutrient film technique and stuff you learn about pythium.
You learn about water temperature how it can grow how it can replicate.
So if let's say you had a 50 gallon drum for the sake of argument right and you were worried about your water.
What would be what would be the way that you would think would be the best way to sterilize it and then how long would you have to wait before you could use it.
Could you add a certain amount of bleach stir it for 10 minutes an hour two hours and then go or do you have data on that.
So I'm not going to say for sure because I'm not exactly sure at what concentration I'm comfortable with that.
What time.
I don't want to.
No I get it.
There's I figured there was going to be you have you have certainty you have uncertainty and you have I don't know which is that's where we're at.
Yeah I'm not sure how how effective it could be to actually sterilize the water that's in that tank.
I can say if you want to test it you should take the stuff from the bottom the stuff where all the material might settle and grab whatever that sludge is.
And we can usually find it if it's there because we for the water testing we grow it out on plates.
So it's not like a 24 hour thing like testing for the thyroid but then we can grow it up and look at all the fuzzy stuff that grows and do a PCR test on each colony to see if you got something growing in there.
So another thing that maybe would be really important for people is that obviously there's some growers that start with fresh material every time they grow.
Whether that's rock wool or coconut fiber you know peat moss perlite whatever.
But then there's also a growing movement of people certainly outdoor but also moving more indoor.
You know all kinds of living soil or multi cycle grows that type of thing.
And so you know we did a I had a commercial thing we were working on and we got some plants that did absolutely horrible from a nursery.
And we tested the soil about three months after harvest and it came up positive.
Yeah.
For hoplite.
Yeah.
So I'm curious if you could tell because there's a lot of people right now that want to move to more like regenerative practices that want to be reusing their medium either from an expense perspective or maybe like you know just whatever it might be.
Right.
And there's a lot that are trying to reuse their soil reuse their mix do multiple cycles in it.
So you know basically what it was really scary for people like them is that if they get infected it's a lot more expensive for them to just throw it out and start over than it is for someone that just buys six inch rock well every time.
Right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So what do you recommend.
I mean obviously sterilizing soil as its whole thing.
Do you have any data or anything like that on how long it can persist in soil if you plant and inflect infected plants after you've killed them.
Yeah.
So once again these experiments have not been done in cannabis in hops.
They can show that the viral overwinters but that's a perennial plant.
So it's not it's not a very good comparison because it has living roots and stuff that it can stay.
Yeah.
I will say it's even in in cannabis from you know the limited studies that we've done it's in very high concentration in the roots.
So if you have an infected plant and there's still root material left in that soil if you plant another plant in that root material I think you're playing with fire as far as getting infected plants.
That's everyone that reuses their soil because they typically cut the plant down and they're relying on biology and various things to break down the root mass in the system and return that energy or whatever to the soil food web.
So no one I mean it would be impossible even unless you like micro screen to remove roots.
Right.
Right.
So I think you know you you if you I mean I don't know what's cheaper testing every plant or the you know the some root decay left in the pot or just starting with new soil.
But I would definitely not be reusing soil from a plant that had hot late and thyroid.
So basically what you're saying is anyone that uses the same soil year after year in an outdoor situation or in a greenhouse or anyone that is in some sort of living soil organic regenerative thing where they're doing multiple cycles.
They would need to be even more militant than normal.
Yeah.
I mean I think kind of what this comes down to is that you know all of these practices can be worked into a regular standard operating procedure as long as you're testing as long as you're constantly measuring you know the the biotic stress of your plants.
And so you know what's going on.
You know you can adopt your SOPs depending on what outbreaks or which types of pathogens are there.
But if you're not collecting information then you can't make intelligent choices downstream about what's safe and what isn't.
So if we're going to get it under control people need to be monitoring their plants all of the time to make sure that they don't have something you know spreading in there.
And because if you don't then you end up with catastrophic losses or possibly you do.
So on that level that leads me to another question and it's related to something Matt said.
You know you said earlier too that like in addition to hoplite and you would also test for a certain kind of fusarium.
You know Matt was talking earlier about you know other forms of dudding to use the common term.
You know I.
So for you since you offer these services or something like that.
How how affordable is it.
Like if if we were to create a panel of hoplite with two or three other common things.
Right.
How much does it how much is it going to honestly cost somebody just like even just like a hobbyist who's concerned and wants to test their little collection.
Yeah.
Do like a one once a month on a plant for instance.
Yes.
So I mean obviously every testing lab is going to have a different price and whatever.
Our cost is twenty five dollars for a test.
For hoplite specifically or for multiple things.
So that's for hoplite specifically.
We're working on panels putting multiple things together and then you know kind of figuring out where the cost of that will fall.
But even if you know if you're a really large or a larger facility and you want to get on some sort of regular testing schedule then there are you know bulk deals and kind of subscriptions.
Type things where we can help with SOPs.
Sure.
And then and then it gets more affordable there.
Because Matt not Matt always he never you know people ask sometimes what the size of my collection is and he's always like you know don't.
But yeah you know in that regard for a variety of reasons.
But you can imagine let's say that someone does have a fairly expensive collection.
Right.
And you want to regularly get them tested.
That could that could be a major expense for a normal person.
Right.
Trying to stay on top of things that could run into the thousands of dollars a month.
Perhaps.
Yeah.
I mean depending on your collection you know if it's if it's big enough it can be an expense for sure.
So then maybe maybe I could get like perhaps a little like political slash regulatory.
So you know one of the one of the equitable things or people talk about like social equity a lot in cannabis because a lot of the people that are traditional or legacy cannabis breeders are you know sort of small outlaw type folks.
And now you have a lot of big money you have a lot of investment you have a lot of like people that never would have dealt with it before.
So the culture is changing dramatically.
Right.
Sadly the little guy has a lot harder time affording this than the big guy.
When in my opinion as far as I've been able to determine it's unscrupulous or simply poor practice big people in that are spreading it everywhere.
Right.
And then they have no responsibility once it's gotten out there to do anything about it.
They don't owe anyone anything.
Right.
So do you think then that there should be some kind of regulatory or political change where you know clones sold should come with a clean bill of health.
That that should be like an absolute standard because to me if you're paying all this money for instance I'll just use California as an example.
But if you're paying a bunch of money up front for the right to grow for your square footage and you're paying all these taxes and fees up front and you have all this cost.
And then you buy a thousand clones that ruin your season and now your soil is infected and you've got this massive issue.
The only person that has no liability is the person that happenedly took your money to sell the clones.
They're free and clear.
They don't have I don't think there is any cases of being able like in the regular agricultural system.
If you spread some kind of terrible disease from your nursery to a big agricultural people they'll come after you.
Right.
Yeah. Yeah.
So I mean I think so this problem needs to be I mean this is my opinion attacked on multiple levels.
I think it should be standard in the industry that you know if you're if you're selling clones that you're getting your stuff tested and that you can provide some type of documentation.
Certification that you that it was tested and these are the results.
Like this mom was tested within 30 days of me taking this clone.
Yes. And I think on the other end when people are buying clones they should have the right to say hey is this tested.
And if the person says yeah I say awesome.
Can you give me the can you give me the results and tell me what lab it was tested through.
So you can do your own research and decide whether or not you believe the results you trust the science.
You know you can you can get clones and just do a quick screening yourself.
You know if you bought a thousand clones you can you can bulk test you know maybe five or six clones per tube and just try to get like even even like 5 percent of them and send them in.
Well your own.
I'll throw something out there because this is this is maybe a little technical so I'm not going to try to bore anyone.
But with the right.
But you know honestly with the regulations exist or whatever in legal situations like a lot of a lot of you know licenses that have flowering rights.
You know you're supposed to move your plants into those areas within 24 hours.
You know you don't have like it's not that easy to like just sit there take a bunch of clones spend a few weeks testing them waiting for results making sure they're clean keeping them healthy without transplanting them and then figuring out whether or not you need to buy more clones.
Because a lot of these nurseries you put your orders in in spring.
You know you have a week that you get your plants.
It's not like if somebody screws you on you can go to another nursery and be like hey I need nine thousand cuts and I'm behind.
They might not even.
So I guess what I'm saying is is I don't know that putting the responsibility on the farmer is very effective for the farmer in terms of cost and just the way the regulations are.
I almost it almost seems to me like in.
I mean this is a crazy analogy or whatever but like you know you know people that work in the sex industry like in movies and stuff they have to get tested every two or three weeks.
Right. And they have to like before they go to work they have to provide a clean bill of health.
So it almost seems to me like the same thing should be done with nurseries like if you want to sell thousands of clones to someone you should have a recent test.
You know that shows that the mother that came off this stuff was not infected because otherwise it's going to keep happening.
Yes I absolutely agree.
I mean and I think we work with nurseries that test all of the time.
I mean that test every you know they cut and they send in hundreds of samples to make sure that they're not selling positive plants to anybody.
And I think those are there's ethical people very much so.
Yeah. Shout out to our friends at Radio Ridge who I know spend a lot of money monthly testing their stuff.
But there's other unscrupulous nurseries that don't waste any money on that.
And they end up spreading a lot of disease without realizing it.
Yeah. Yeah. And honestly you know I think that the biggest responsibility that would fall to the clone person buying the clones is to simply ask did you test.
And you know you have the right to move to a different person if you if that you know if they haven't been testing and you don't feel confident you know you can try to source them from elsewhere.
But I think that moving forward that's going to have to start to become the industry standard if we're going to get this thing under control.
Everybody's going to have to be testing.
I can tell you having consulted and worked at multiple legal scenes especially ones that are brand new and getting off the ground.
Most of the bugs for talking about those we'll stop talking about by roads for a second.
But most of the insects that come under those under those first grows come from the nurseries.
They come with free root aphids or free cannabis aphids or free thrips or you know free free you know two spotted spider mites.
And there's no discount for that gift that comes along with that.
So nurseries haven't done a very good job yet of providing problem free plants.
Yeah I kind of want to rewind it a bit because I did notice some people were mentioning we didn't go over like initial reasons why someone would even suspect they have hops like me and not to have seen a lot of plants with this.
So we know like we see one we're like oh fuck that's that's it.
It's like it's obvious but a lot of people watching are going to be very confused on how they would even begin to identify it.
So are there some some markers maybe you would tell us to look out for.
Yeah so common symptoms are going to be slow growth.
You'll have branches that instead of them coming up like the normal angle though they'll go out more horizontal like this.
Yeah more than 90 degree branch.
Yes correct.
And they'll be brittle.
So you know if you if you like touch the plant like this you know they'll break.
Yeah.
Another common thing it's a little subtle but the leaves instead of kind of being separated will overlap a little bit.
And that's another symptom.
You can also see things like leaf chlorosis.
Sometimes it'll like puff out and look more like a Christmas tree like a Christmas tree type growth.
You know in little clones you're going to see much slower slower growth and sometimes it looks kind of sparse and sickly.
But you know and then obviously sometimes the symptoms can be really subtle and depending on when it was infected it's not super easy to see it until it flowers and then it's just super duper disappointing.
Those are those are all I would I wouldn't say all but I would say about 90 percent of what you mentioned especially the angle of the stem the brittleness of the stem and the small leaves are all stuff that we had noticed among plants that were worrisome before we even knew what the word hoplite was.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I remember one of the others was the stem color.
There wasn't a lot of stem color.
I don't know.
Oh yeah.
That's a really good one.
I don't know if you know about that but what we saw with infected plants is that most infected plants would be like a uniform pale green.
They wouldn't have any red or purple or any kind of coloration.
They would almost be like a pure I don't want to say sickly green because that's not right.
But well their texture was different too.
It wasn't like the normal texture that I would see it was almost rubbery and when you would move your hands down the stem it would definitely break because of its different type of texture.
It was basically the plant would look almost like the stem would be a uniform pale green.
It wouldn't have some of the variation we've come to expect with you know as it gets woody or this or that.
And so you know one of but the other the other risk of that is that and maybe we can jump into this for a minute is that the problem is is that you can be infected and be asymptomatic.
Correct.
Yes.
You can have you can have an infection that's young enough that it hasn't started showing these deformities if you will.
Right.
Yeah.
So maybe you could explain you know and maybe you maybe you know maybe you don't know but you've mentioned a number of times where there's differences between the viroid just like exploding around through the plant versus a plant that has less viroid.
What are some things that can you know outside of just the plant's health.
What are some things that slow or speed the plant being infected in the sense of do you have any idea on those aspects or ways to slow it down even if it might be infected.
That type of thing.
Yeah. So so it is mentioned in the literature that higher temperatures and more intense light tends to speed up the replication of the viroid.
So it so the plant's going to have a higher load.
You're going to see the symptoms more robustly if the plant gets stressed out.
So that doesn't mean that it isn't it isn't in there replicating.
But if the plant gets stressed out dried up or whatever the stress response of the plant isn't going to be functioning as well as a healthy plant.
And so you're going to see those symptoms come out really pronounced if the plant gets stressed out.
You know it's it's tough.
But what you what you really want to do is try to find it before the symptoms are super obvious because once they're super obvious the plant is really infected and the chances of it spreading are quite a bit higher.
You know which is why I'm back to the you know screening thing because if you can catch it early on with a sensitive enough test you can it's much easier to contain and keep it from spreading like that.
Matt do you intentionally have comments off.
Yes.
OK.
Just just just to be clear.
So there is a.
So basically what we're talking about is that we we've established there's a couple of different things you can do that really that really prevent spread.
But the best thing is just to prevent it from coming in.
Yeah.
All right.
The ideal.
Yes that's the ideal.
And then you know so and you say that because you know one of the things that I see a lot of these places when they offer TC or Marist M this is four to six thousand dollars off it.
And you're saying and it's very pricey and you're saying and it takes months.
Right.
And you're saying that it can be effective but the people doing it have to be really talented at actually removing all of the vascular only getting it down to the Marist M itself and starting from that point.
And there's some luck to it as well.
Right.
Like.
Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Some of it's some of it's really no knowing what you're doing really understanding the plant getting the plant you know really healthy before you even attempt the process.
You want to pick the right the right part of the plant or the you know the healthiest bit and then it's not going to work on every single one.
So numbers.
Your test.
So maybe I could.
I think I already know the answers to this but I have I'll just take you through some bro science for a second on what people are doing to cure it.
Right.
So one of the one of the ways that people have heard it you know is you clone out of it.
Right.
You have a plant that you think has an issue.
You try to get it as healthy as humanly possible.
Right.
You take some clones.
That was my my my method.
That was your method.
You take the healthiest clones.
You root it.
You get you you root it.
You take a clone off it very soon.
You throw that away.
You cycle through repeatedly trying to like sort of outrun the viroid.
Is this could be effective or is this sort of chasing your own tail and it's it's so.
OK.
I'm not going to say that it can't work because I have not done the experiment and I don't know.
And so you know this it could potentially work.
One of the problems with the viroid is you don't need a lot to get that infection again.
I mean one or two copies.
You're not going to see much for a long time.
It's going to take a while for it to build enough to even be detectable on a test.
But just a little bit and you're you're right back to an infected plant.
If you end up like chases the new growth.
Right.
Like.
Correct.
Yeah.
So it's it you're it's definitely you're you're playing a chasing game right.
Yeah.
If you think about it if if the plant was just infected and it's moving down that first branch into the vascular system and up.
If you can cut a clone off before it gets there like intellectually it should be possible to grab a clone that doesn't have it.
I don't you'd have to start the race before you knew that you should be racing.
Exactly.
In order to outrun it.
But then the next.
Right.
So it's it's it's it sounds unlikely.
I tried that with the trend so hard on the Trinity and we I think we had it outdoors trying to chase it up and out that way.
It was growing vigorous taking the healthiest cuts every time and over a period of a year and a half.
It just was not.
It looked great.
And then slowly but surely the traits would start showing back up again.
Yeah.
So then there's there's some big companies out there that have claimed that they had dutting issues and they cured them by dunking dunking plants and something like say zero tall or you know putting sterile.
Sanitate putting you know soaking the roots so the roots uptake whatever sterile it might be type of thing and that they have cured it and never seen it since kind of gig.
And you know there's a there's a big push with any kind of nursery or any kind of big big grow.
And so I guess if anyone in the community finds out that you have it they want to let everyone know as soon as possible that they've solved it and then it's gone.
Right.
And so you know I have a certain amount of skepticism that that would work from your experience that would not also not be probably very effective.
No no.
So I guess to help people understand viroids are intercellular pathogens.
So what that means is they're not just in the plant tissue there.
They're inside the cell.
And then once they get inside the cell there's actually another little tiny organelle in there called the nucleus.
And so they traffic all the way into where the DNA of the plant is and they they hijack the machine that's supposed to be interpreting the DNA for the plant and they use it to replicate themselves.
And so any type of non-specific disinfectant that would actually make its way all the way into the nucleus of the plant and and non-specifically destroy RNA would kill the entire plant because RNA is used by the plant to do its own biology.
Like it's essential.
So basically you you could get it to work by dropping your entire plant in bleach or something but it will just be dead after like an hour or so.
Right.
So there is no way for a topical or you know something that's being taken up that gets that's a non-specific disinfectant to get all the way into the nucleus and only destroy the viroid and not the rest of the plant.
Maybe I'll ask a related question but just more general.
So in your experience the only thing that has a chance of curing it but even that is variable would be a high quality meristem tissue culture with testing afterwards to select the healthy ones and to get rid of the ones that it remained.
You haven't seen anything else in you know so far that will lead to success.
Yeah.
So right now that is the only option for a reasonable cure that has evidence that it works.
That doesn't mean that there you know there are ways of obviously genetic modification selecting for plants that are resistant.
There are things that you can basically mutate or deactivate in the plant so that the viroid can't traffic through the plant anymore.
It can't replicate.
And then there are there more theoretical right now or you know still in the literature kind of research zone.
Some types of molecules that can actually encourage the secondary immune system of the plant to respond specifically to the viroid.
And that would be by activating something called RNAi which is the plant's version of the secondary immune system.
Now none of these things as far as I'm aware are actual products.
They've just shown some success in academia.
In theory.
Yes.
Yeah.
So they've shown they've shown some success you know in a scientific lab that's looking for things that could work.
But as far as I'm aware nothing's been turned into a product that people could use.
I mean it almost seems to me like an analogy that I've kind of started settling on as far as like what it's going to take to stop this thing is you almost need to start treating your plants like they're in a tattoo parlor.
Right.
Where you know where you know you have every every plant you know is gets clean gear.
Yep.
You know people are you know every time you know that that level of because obviously all those practices in tattoo parlors happened because we wanted to stop transmission of HIV and hepatitis and all these other things that you know because back in the day that wasn't so much a worry.
And then it became a big worry and then basically I believe not that I'm familiar with tattoo regulation but I pretty much believe that you have to have like autoclaves you have to have a certain level of sterilization.
You can't even operate without these this gear.
Yeah.
Make sure that you're not going to be a vector for spreading issues.
Yes.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
And so the industry is going to have to adopt standard operating procedures very similar to that.
And we actually to help people kind of remember what they need to do we've actually kind of created this dorky little acronym called STOP like STOP pathogens that stands for you know sterile environment.
Sterilization of your tools sterilizing between plants sterilizing your pots the surfaces and everything testing regularly so that you know what's going on and you can catch stuff early organizing your facility that's the O like flow of the people organizing where your clones are sitting.
So if a mom plant pops positive you don't have to throw out every tray because you don't know where those plants are sitting that came from that positive mom.
So thinking about that and then the P is to protect your borders right you don't let anything in that hasn't been tested and make sure that you're keeping infected stuff out.
So if you can go through that whole stop process then you stand you know you're making the right corrections to sort of keep the thing at bay and limit your economic exposure to it.
So it's really it's basically you know one of the aspects that people people get mad about right where they want to talk about like being a libertarian or something like that you know we should have no rules is that in positive aspect of regulation is it's there to force people that would never do it to somewhat do it.
Yes you know.
So one of the one of the hard parts about regulation for me right now is that because you don't have federal legality on any level every state is its own island.
Yep.
So you know if we you know obviously winning in California would be big because you know it's it's going to take much like HIV or something like that at this point it's it's so prevalent that it's going to take years and a bunch of outreach and a bunch of knowledge to sort of slowly beat back the tide for how much it spread when it was invisible and nobody could talk to people like you and figure out how it even moved around.
Yes yeah it's going to it's going to take a long time and the entire industry working together and you know I include people like us in that as well because you know if you think about other industries like human diagnostics or the rest of agriculture or even veterinary medicine there's a bunch of regulations and rules and standards for testing labs to you know you've got to validate your test you need to show like level of detection you know all these things like inclusivity and specialization.
Specificity and positive predictive value and all these things that you're supposed to do.
And when we came into this we were used to working in human diagnostics where you know I mean there was like this huge list of things you had to prove and realize that here you know a lot of labs aren't doing any of those experiments you know because there's no standards right now.
No.
We need to hold ourselves to a higher standard too.
I just I just saw something proposed and I don't know if it's going to I don't know exactly when it's going to take effect but they're starting to push for standardization of labs for THC and terpenes and stuff because there's a lot of shady business going on with that because there's no standards that people have to adhere to.
Yes.
Yeah.
And it's unfortunately I mean even for tissue culture and testing labs because there's no standards some of the you know it's not fair but some of the responsibility or way to protect yourself is to know the right questions to ask you know and if you if you find a testing lab and they you know they want to you know you're going to send your plants there you can say hey can you send me your validation.
Can you tell me the experiments that you did to prove that your test is accurate or sensitive enough to detect it.
And a good lab a lab that's that's you know done its research should be able to send you a document where it spells out the experiments they did.
Their stuff works.
I mean in all honesty having sourced clones for some pretty big scenes in the legal system.
Most nurseries are only really prepping say 10 to 18 different strains for their season.
It's not like they might have a big library but they're only really they're only picking so many things to mom up and offer numbers up.
So it wouldn't be that prohibitively expensive like in winter for them to test these things make sure the moms they're propagating are clean.
You know and it's not like they have to put their entire collection through they just have to put what's in current production through.
Correct. Yeah. Yeah. I mean if you you know if you if you test your moms you know rigorously before you cut those clones and then you know even if you do like a really small random sampling of 5 percent of the clones.
All like the entire SOP that we recommend is a couple bucks per plant or something like that.
And like if you if you if you take all the costs together and calculate it per plant and it's just totally worth it to not need to feel confident that you're selling somebody a good product because I think nurseries to want to feel good that they're giving people high quality clones.
So and be trusted and stuff like that.
As a breeder to like I think it's becoming more incumbent upon especially learning that there is even a remote possibility of the transmission from mother plant to seed stock because right now I mean it would be a great solution for the current problem right now with clones and the mass.
You know I mean like people are all pretty much growing the same shit like whether I mean it's all gelato cookies some form thereof. Right. But this could really be a good advocate for more seeds more seed stock not relying on the same exact clone more diversity.
But that only is great if also the breeders are also aspiring to the same level of testing that everyone else is.
Yeah. And I mean with eight with potentially up to 8 percent transmission to seed you know of course like just by the law Murphy's Law or whatever you know the one that you pick is your winner.
Yeah.
8 percent or something. You know you'd be like oh this is the one I want. This has the turps. This has the hive. Oh it has the latent.
But yeah yeah I mean it's really going to have to be this the awareness of this the testing the you know the preventative nature is going to have to percolate into every faucet of this entire industry in order for everybody as a collective to get the thing under control breeders clone producers you know growers home growers.
I mean we grew a plant that had hot plate and byrode in our basement. You know we had no idea. It just yeah it flowered and we're like what last a week. Right. So.
So I mean it's it's it's the whole industry as we all take responsibility together and then I think you know we can start making a dent in it.
Yeah it's going to take a lot of education for the actual end user and that's that's always been the hardest part when it comes to like we do a lot of talk on cannabis genetics history seed history what have you.
And it's not always as important to everyone like a lot of people have that genuine idea that it's dank gives a shit what it's called or what it is.
But when it comes to stuff like this there's a reason that people care. This is a reason that everybody takes is sets these standards or aspires to these standards. It's because we give a shit.
We'd like to see these these genetics carry on in the form that they are. We don't want to lose everything.
And and not paying attention not giving a shit not caring not testing is a good way to end up with gelato for the rest of your life.
You know there's an issue with that and maybe maybe this is a this is a good time to bring it up or whatever.
But you know in regards to other to other agriculture one of the things that Matt and myself and a number of our friends are concerned about is that with the uneven rolling out of legalization.
Right. Not that many people like I said before care that much about holding on to old things.
Right. And it's expensive and time consuming but it used to be that it was a little bit more lucrative to do this.
And that allowed you to fund you know your passion if it were. Right. And so what I'm worried about is that as we grow into this big industry you know we could lose like the legalization movement right now is probably a bigger threat to diversity than even prohibition was.
Yeah definitely in my opinion. And then we could be looking for like you were talking about like maybe five or 10 minutes ago in one of your answers where you were saying you know we we can breed for resistance to certain things.
We can you know you can look at like the banana or other aspects of agriculture where some disease came in and crushed it and they went and found varieties that resisted that.
And then those became the standard. And so cannabis is going to in the next 10 20 30 40 years it's going to encounter things that need to be dealt with like that.
And we're not going to know where the answer lies but it probably lies in some plant that if it gets lost in the next five years due to all these things happening we could end up.
I mean I was joking about cookies and gelato. You know even if those are your favorite strains they might lack genetic aspects that later on would be critical for the survival of the plant as some kind of bug or disease or viral or whatever comes along.
I promise those those definitely will not be the ones because they are so susceptible to everything.
Because this is this this might sound a little nerdy or something but forgive me but I read this huge article on why you know 30 40 years ago like when I was a kid every lots of people hated Brussels sprouts because they had this really offensive odor when cooked.
And so what they did is they went back they figured out that there was this one substance within the Brussels sprout right that led to that aroma.
So they went back and they started breeding all these hundreds of varieties that were no longer in production but were still saved in these various banks.
Yes.
They grew them all out. They looked for which ones had the least of this substance in it.
They started breeding them together and lo and behold this new improved Brussels sprout that doesn't have that funny cooked smell is now on your shelves in the store.
Where does that shit exist? I've never seen it.
I guarantee you know you can you can you can type in it.
Anyone could type it into Google and it'll pop up that they literally rebuilt Brussels sprouts from the ground up because they realized this aroma was really affecting its sales.
And so they were able to go they were able to go back to the 50s 60s 70s 80s and grow out hundreds of different varietals of Brussels looking for just low amounts of this one compound.
And that's the type of stuff that's going to happen in cannabis in the future.
And so we don't have a bunch of variety. We don't even know what we might need to go hunt for later.
Yeah yeah I think that you know the fact that there isn't a bank like a centralized bank for all these strains and cannabis is you know that's one of the serious issues right now because you know there's all sorts of cool stuff out there being made and unfortunately maybe strains being lost.
You know and that's all the time.
Yeah yeah which is and you know Hoplite and viroids obviously making it worse right because if you know if you if it's infected and you you can't afford tissue culture you don't want to go that route you know then it's just kind of you know.
I had this thought while we have you on and I know this isn't tissue.
This isn't Hoplite and related but it is somewhat related to genetics and so I thought maybe we could get your your opinion on it and you can say I know or I don't know.
But there's been some there's been some literature coming out where it used to be for best practices for a long time was when you were cloning and you were taking new mother stock that you always went for the fast growing tops the tips of the plants all that.
And now there's been some research it seems like that's been coming out that's been talking about how the top of the plant might actually have more like more mutations and it would be safer to keep that plant there would be less mutations lower down on the plant on the lesser growth that as newer growth happens there's a greater chance of something odd.
And for us for a long time you always went for the healthiest newest growing tips.
We called it the cult of our cut.
Yeah. And then and now it seems like there's been some evidence coming out that maybe that's mistaken and that it might be safer to take new moms and new new genetic material from the lower parts of the plant that have less of a likelihood of some kind of mutation happening.
Is that something you're familiar with and seen and you could speak on or no.
So I mean I so I've read you know some of the literature I'm not going to speak with extreme confidence.
Sure. I don't know that that body of literature as well.
I do know that you know so when you're cutting plants clonal wise you're taking somatic tissue though somatic tissue is everything that isn't the germline and it the the the genome of somatic tissue is not protected in the same way as if you were to go through seed right because the germline is is really protected.
And so those tissues are going to accumulate more mutations.
And when you're cloning a mom you're not getting a new plant you're you're actually have the same old plant you know with the same somatic tissue and you're just continuing to propagate this extremely old mom.
Yes. And so that those somatic mutations over time will accumulate.
I you know the people if you're trying to take the apical Mary stem area that area contains new stem cells. And so beyond somatic mutation beyond actual changes in the base pairs you also have these things called epigenetic changes which they're like edits.
If you think of the DNA sequence as as letters and words epigenetics is like highlighting in a capital letter maybe you scratch out a word. So it's stuff overlaid on top.
So a lot of those epigenetic changes are reset in stem cells especially the freshly made ones. And so you can get if you grab that top part or you use those stem cells you can revigorate the plant.
Whether or not there's a big difference in somatic mutations like point mutations in the DNA like the changes of the letters dramatic enough to make a difference in the vigor from the top to the bottom. I don't know if there's and what kind of research there is around that.
The ideal of course would be to take a really healthy vigorous mom plant and preserve that plant you know in tissue culture and stasis.
And then you bring out you take the cuts and you bring it out and grow it up and then take your clones or whatever and then toss that and always go back to that plant in stasis because you're going to have less somatic mutations if it's just kind of hanging out at four degrees.
Yeah. That makes sense. Super ideal. Maybe I could get one more non byroid question and see if what you think. So in relation to that I mean keeping moms healthy and stuff like that. There's a lot of talk in our community about
Oh the plant got tired or it got cloned too much and it suffered genetic drift or things of that nature. Matt and I both have I mean I have a number of things that at this point are you know 20 15 20 25 even 30 years old. Right. So pretty ancient in cannabis terms. Right.
Do you feel that that kind of like when you're taking clones. Do you think that if a plant starts to not perform the way you want to. It's because there's some mutations that happened or there was some of what you just spoke about. Do you believe in it.
And do you believe in the genetics itself. You know some some undesirable changes may have happened. Do you think plants get old. Do you think they get tired. If you will. I realize that's that's a bro term but it's thrown around enormously like the plants just tired. The plant got genetic drift. You didn't clone off it when it was healthy enough and you ruined it forever. It's not the same as it was. It's not like it was five years ago.
And so if you could talk a little bit if that's within your knowledge base on what you think about that kind of thing that would be very helpful for people as well because it's thrown around enormously.
Yes. Yeah. So there will be somatic mutations that happen. Now this is not going to be happening on a massive scale. All right. So it's I mean there there can be mutations here and there but it's not like it's going to take a completely healthy plant and turn it into a total dodge. You know really fast.
I've heard a lot of people say things like that too. Like it stopped taking up nutrients or you know like somehow the plant randomly decided I'm just not going to eat anymore or whatever. I think a lot of times the decline has to do with pathogens that you don't know we're in there. If you're if you're experiencing a serious decline I think it's much more likely to be some type of pathogen than it is to be you know completely suicidal plant.
Exactly.
I said it's hard to come across that I'm sure.
Well I mean for us it's like you know for humans right we have a you know we have a lifespan. You know so if you if obviously you can't clone a person but you know you clone a teenager and they're they're very healthy you clone an 80 year old and they're not that healthy and I realize it's not the same thing at all.
But I just wonder like you know these plants are theoretically in nature they survive a season.
Yeah.
And I have clones I have clones that were are from the early 90s. And so they've survived you know 32 seasons.
Right. Yes. Yeah. I mean mutations will accumulate in you know older somatic tissue and you know just like a person over time those mutations it's possible that could lead to you know decreased vigor.
I think it kind of depends on what you're seeing. Usually when I when I hear people talk about it it's like it was fine last year and now this year it looks like hell. And I'm like well that's not that time frame doesn't fit you know slow mutations accumulating the plant. That sounds like a pathogen.
But do I mean will a plant eventually get old you know and go you know into having issues. It sounds reasonable to me. But again I don't know any literature on that. So right now I'm you know my thoughts not not data.
No that's I mean that's you know we're with this this podcast is about thoughts you know and we always try you know when we're talking about history because most of cannabis history is oral. We always try to be like this is what we know. These are our educated guesses. This is what we're pretty sure of. But there's disagreement amongst people and it's hard to say what's specific. So this is like right in our wheelhouse of what we deal with.
It really is. You know it is because the general consensus when it comes to cannabis whether we're talking about like I said reversals and and sexual identity with cannabis or what have you. The answer is just it varies so heavily. It varies so heavily and there just isn't enough research yet. And I think that's one thing that anybody who delves into the data just runs into constantly time and time again.
Yes there's definitely a lot of unknowns and very few knowns out there.
So you know we've been talking for a long time. I think mostly we got our questions answered. Do you feel that way too Matt?
Yeah yeah yeah I do. It's amazing.
Maybe you could plug. I noticed a number of times you mentioned you have some SOPs or you have some best practices available on your website that people could go reference. Maybe you could talk a little bit just for a second about what you guys do. What you have available for people resource wise, testing wise, that type of thing. So feel free for a minute to just sort of lay into all that if you will.
Yes absolutely. Yeah so you know we we definitely do testing. Hop latent viroid obviously that's the thing that's tested the most often. We also offer a panel of testing for Pythium as well as Fusarium.
We have a panel of viruses and even a viroid hop stunt viroid which hasn't been shown to be in cannabis yet but it has a really high large host range and it has some pretty damaging effects in hops. And so you know we're kind of screening things all the time to make sure that we're kind of staying on top of stuff.
Among the stuff that I am the most excited about that it's hoping to come out at the beginning of next year is our on-site testing platform. So this is one of the ways that we're trying to help the industry bring the cost of doing a lot of routine testing down into a range where people can afford it.
And so you know we've been working really hard at evolving a platform that we created to test for COVID in human saliva and evolving that into the cannabis industry starting with testing for hop latent viroid.
And the thing that I'm most excited about it is that we we sat down with the chemistry that currently existed isothermal amplification or LAMP I think a lot of people have heard of that.
And we started addressing some of the weaknesses of that technology the false positive rate the low sensitivity the you know the lack of internal control and we were able to improve that technology quite a lot.
So we were able to bring the sensitivity to the point where you should be able to detect about 95% of the reactions that are found by a QPCR in the lab.
And the test can be judged you know it's a color change test but there is an internal control so you can tell if you've done the test incorrectly or if your plant is negative.
And it also comes with an analysis software so if you want to do it high throughput if you'd like to do you know 96 plants at a time that's totally possible and that'll give you a digital readout.
And so you know we're really excited about bringing this out because we've worked really hard at making this a really good test and a really good tool and I think this is going to help people do the type of testing that they're going to need to do to really start knocking things down.
Okay.
And then your is your website just is it to me genetics calm is it to know genomics.
Genomics yeah.
To me genomics calm yeah.
I mingle at times.
You know I have a little twang but but so that that's where people could go to read about the SOP is that you mentioned and some of the some of the data and stuff that some of what we know there's an easy to reference area on that where you can learn.
Yes and we are constantly putting up new content and we try to let people know in Instagram when we're putting new stuff up and there's a lot of so I've just been busy making content and doing research to help people out so you know what we're going to have some stuff about all the different viruses and by roads that are known in cannabis the ones that aren't known what you know what's the evidence they exist which should you worried about which not.
A lot of a lot of content like that.
So it's and it's all going up on the website just to help people figure out like to navigate all of this because there's so much contradictory information that it's it's really difficult for someone to figure out what they're supposed to do and what they should be worried about and what's actually proven and what what is somebody just saying something really confidently, even though they don't actually know.
We hear that a lot.
Yeah, like I said for this episode, the amount of people that told me exactly precisely how transmissible this HPLV is in cannabis seeds was astounding how many people were sure you know what I mean like yeah and so this this whole thing is very helpful and we hope anything else that you guys work on, whether it's it's it's these new different things that you're doing.
Whether it's through different videos that you put out or whatnot you'll bring it back to us and we can have you on again to talk about more and any new findings with HPLV or anything anything you think the cannabis community should know about or be aware of like this because this is so important.
Yes, absolutely. Yeah. And we are like I said instigating research studies in collaboration with Texas A&M and I'm hoping that that's really going to accelerate, you know, good science and real data and and as soon as we find it. I love to share it with the community because I think that's what's really needed here is quality research and a lot of education so people understand
Oh, maybe I could throw this out there just real quick and this and then we could end it on that. But you just mentioned Texas A&M right
Texas is not cannabis friendly yet. So, you know, what do you like, you know, what do you think about like obviously like bringing to bear some of these colleges and some of these these departments and stuff like that that have been working in agriculture and other areas for a long time is going to be part of the fabric of our new world.
How do they work on that in Texas? Do they have to get special like federal permission or something like that like Texas law doesn't allow any I mean it's not California. It's not anywhere where they have any kind of medical or recreational program either. It's one of the states that's anti still
So in Texas A&M they work on hemp varieties.
You know that the difference between a hemp variety and you know a THC containing variety is the amount of THC the plant has
So because it's in the farm bill they can work on it. They can work. They can test all that stuff via the hemp and just get around the drug cultivar aspect or whatever.
Yes. Yeah. And, you know, there are universities like Colorado State University here in Colorado is doing research and they actually put out a paper where they did next generation sequencing on cannabis looking specifically for what pathogens are actually there.
Yeah. And so there are universities, they're starting to jump in the ring to and do research and I really think that that's where the answer is, is, you know, collaborations between, you know, academia and industry and open sharing of information.
So that everybody can benefit from what's being learned both industry research and academia research.
The one biggest bar between academia that I found and and maybe it maybe it's a bar between academia, the people who have the money and the actual cannabis people who've been doing it, you know, for decades.
Is that not often to the people with the money or the people with the acute academia ever encounter the people behind the scenes that are doing that are the people that have these collections that have been doing the real research and taking real data.
Trying to keep it as straight as they can. Not often do any of these people ever meet in the same real. So I'm really hoping that somehow that's a bridge is is reached between academia and what they would probably turn black market botanists.
The observational community.
Right. Yes.
The observational community. Yeah.
Yeah. And that, you know what, that's one of the major missions of our company is I was an academic scientist. My husband was an academic scientist.
Half the scientists on our team are academic scientists. And what we really want to do is bridge that gap and bring academia and what's going on. You know, all the knowledge in the cannabis industry and bring that all together and really get some some solid data from.
I like the testing you guys are doing.
Yeah, I have issues. I have issues with like the terpene and THC testing because I think it's so inaccurate. And I think it's led people to assume a bunch of stuff that's not true.
You know, and I don't think we know yet like why plants, why those why cannabis plants make us high.
Right. Like and or why the different highs happen like you can't look at a test and be like, oh, this is going to give me a racy crawl out of my skin. I'm nervous feeling versus like I want potato chips and I'm giggly and I'm warm and happy and comfortable feeling.
Right. And then, you know, I do we do testing all the time and it's like I you know, they say that there's like 150 different terpenes and cannabinoids that they've discovered and they test for like 30.
Yes. At this point.
There's I think there's a really big fixation right now on the level of THC and everybody wants the highest level possible. But I don't, you know, based on personal experience now we're not talking about data at all.
Yeah, yeah. Just because it has a really high level of THC does not mean that it's going to give you, you know, give the consumer the feeling that they were going for.
You know, and they're much more complicated than that. And I think we just don't know right now how all that stuff interacts with the human body and with with each chemical with each other.
You know, maybe, you know, maybe, you know, this from academia, but I bet a lot of people don't know this where because cannabis was is a schedule one substance. Right.
You needed the DEA's permission to test for it. Right. And so during the war on drugs for a long time, if I if I was a scientist and I went to the DEA and I was like, I want to see if cannabis lowers my blood pressure and makes me a happier person, they would deny me.
And if you went and said, hey, I want to test and see if cannabis makes me more violent, more prone to illegal acts and and raises my blood pressure, they would allow it.
So what's happened is we have like 40 or 50 years of cannabis testing, looking for negative correlations and effects and barely any looking at the actual effects or if there could be positives.
Yeah, yeah. There's there's very limited research. And, you know, I think one of the most frustrating things and I was actually discussing this with a lawyer at a cannabis conference is that to get something off the schedule one list, you have to do research to prove that it's not dangerous, but you're not allowed to do research on things on the schedule one list.
So you're you're caught in the catch 22. Yeah, exactly. The DEA was able to prevent anything from messing with their narrative by them having a bottleneck and you had to get their permission to actually have cannabis to test with.
Yeah, yeah. No, I mean, and I am really hoping that this is going to change because there there needs to be so much research. And, you know, from a virology pathogen biology perspective, having a reservoir of pathogens in a plant where we're not doing any research, we're not monitoring it. That's dangerous for all of agriculture.
Sure.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, we're about two hours here, which is normally when we cut it. I don't know. We want to thank you so much for coming on and chatting. It was really engaging and cleared up a lot of stuff. I wrote down a lot of questions and it's good to hear the state of where we are, you know, where we know we are and where we're worried about and all that. And so maybe Matt, if you want to do your end of the end of the evening plug and then we can all have a good night. That would be great.
Yeah. Well, thanks a lot for coming on, Tessa. We really appreciate you and Tumi Genovics and everything you are doing to help us to help bring us into the new in this new weird future that is cannabis for a lot of us that have been very resistant to it.
Like I didn't do a lot of testing myself over the years, like early on because it was so expensive and just didn't make a lot of sense. But I think we're at that point where testing has to be a mainstay. So we appreciate you bringing your knowledge and everything you've learned for free here to share with everyone.
Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. Thank you so much for this opportunity. This was actually a lot of fun. So I love talking about science. So I'm teaching science. So this was great. Thanks you guys so much for inviting me here.
Well, we're happy to have you. For all of us here at Breeder Syndicate, go check out our Patreon. Breeder Syndicate Patreon. Go to Google, type in Breeder Syndicate Patreon, you'll end up there. Go check out riotseeds.com for seeds and reversal spray. And that is it.
This will be put up on YouTube shortly. And as always, thank you very much for your Friday night. Much appreciated.
Bye everyone.
Bye everyone.
Have a good weekend.
