Welcome to Breeder's Syndicate, where we explore the history of a clandestine scene
through the eyes of the folks who lived it.
I'm Matthew, owner of Riot Seeds.
I'll occasionally be joined by my co-host NotSoDawg, breeder and grower from Mendocino.
Welcome to the Underground.
So, today, this week's topic, we're going to talk to our buddy Rings Around His Own
Anus.
We're going to talk about farming in Mendo.
You guys are old buddies.
He's been in Mendo a few years longer, comes from the Midwest.
He's a stray nerd like us.
We want to hear about his adventures in old Mendoville.
So, you want to kick it off, Frank?
You can introduce yourself.
Yeah, so, you know, when Matt and I were discussing this whole podcast, kind of the whole theme
or purpose of it really, was to sort of like share in a way, how we talk amongst each other
all the time.
Right?
Like, as we, you know, and bring a little bit of that to like the discourse or whatever,
right?
So, we're gonna talk about world problems.
Yeah.
So, my buddy is one of the people that I've talked about all kinds of stuff for a long
time.
He's from a small little town.
We both come from the Midwest, like Homie said.
He's actually been out here probably four years longer than me or something like that.
So, over a quarter century.
And so, we've kind of both seen, you know, like a lot of the different eras that I think
people would consider.
I don't know if you want to consider them legendary or just old.
But also, when we were talking last show about like a lot of hobbyist breeding and a lot
of multi-stage breeding and learning about your plants.
Rings is someone that has been, you know, basically when you first got here in the 90s,
that was the way.
It wasn't a clone world.
It was a seed world.
Right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I don't even remember any popular clones for quite a while.
You know, when I got here, it was all seed.
You'd hear about some indoors.
Here and there, you'd see little batches of indoor here and there.
But there's a couple of lights, you know, little bits.
Yeah.
And, you know, so there's an aspect there where nowadays people view the kind of breeding
like that used to be done around Mendo a lot just to have beans.
Something sort of mysterious.
Right?
Well, you know, Rings basically never left that era.
In the sense of he has been breeding kind of for what he likes, plants he likes, things
that interest him, you know, regular breeding, no feminized reversals or anything like that.
Maybe some accidents now and again.
And just looking at what plants show you.
Right?
So it really does tie into what we've been talking about.
But it also ties into like a whole era, like pre-215, you know?
And even like after 215 passed, it probably took what, Rings, like five or eight years?
I remember like 2002 people feeling like they actually could lean on 215, even though it
passed in whatever year.
Nobody thought they were going to be able to grow in their yard and not get fucked with.
Yeah.
And, you know, they were still, you know, keeping it mellow, keeping it on the down
low, but then some friends of mine let it rip.
They just went for it.
And cops came, people tried to rip it off.
Cops got called and the cops left the plants.
And then we were, oh, it's a fucking green light.
And that was a major green light.
So that was great though.
I mean, for the first time we were putting them out in the sun and not worried and realizing
the potential that a plant could get real big.
So chronologically speaking, when you were in Wisconsin, what you were seeing out there
was what type of strains?
Like mostly, were you seeing the Afghanis proliferate out there still pretty heavy by
the time you started?
Yeah, I didn't really know.
I knew a few, some of my older brother's buddies were growing little gardens in their
apartments and whatever, but I didn't really know any outdoor growers there, but you'd
see the weed once in a while come through.
But it seemed like it was pretty standard kind of Afghani.
I mean, that climate back there, you are limited, you know.
Yeah, that's true.
Give us some strain names, man.
What were you seeing in Wisconsin strain wise?
You know, people would say things like Ghani.
I mean, it was simple.
So basic, not named, like.
Yeah, green, but you were just stoked if you got something that wasn't compressed.
Yeah, right.
And there was two kinds of weed, basically.
It was green Mexican and brown Mexican.
And the level of compression could vary widely.
The best stuff was green and lightly compressed.
Some of the worst stuff was incredibly compressed and very brown.
And strain names, I mean, you know, they just, yeah, I think maybe I'm speaking, but barely
anyone knew what I was doing when I lived in Chicago and was growing weed.
Absolutely.
I mean, you were in a major populated area.
I was in a rural area.
There was, it was all bad.
Yeah.
I mean, I remember just people hearing about my friends and I smoking weed.
And then like one of my buddies got busted drinking and driving.
And when he was in the cops, they're like, we know you and that guy are selling weed.
You know, I mean, it was like, we were buying like a quarter ounce once a month and smoking
it in one hitters.
We were so far away.
But I mean, we were like big dealers in our hometown because of that.
People are asking about various imports.
I can't speak for Rings, but we both come from the Midwest.
He's a little farther north than I was and he was rural and I was city.
But I literally saw Mexican.
When the Grateful Dead came into town, there would be some kind bud.
There was no Jamaican imports.
There was no Colombian.
There was no tie.
There was no anything named.
There was brown and green Mexican.
I remember I got tie stick once and it was literally tied with a string on a stick.
I was very fortunate where I met the, I like to say the right dirt bag, hippie biker types
that were older and they weren't going to smoke the worst brown weed.
So they had networks set up somehow or whatever.
I was at least getting like pretty decent green weed pretty much from the start.
But that was, I mean, there was no weed scene in my high school.
It was all just drinking and there was a couple of stoners, but there was no scene there at
that time.
It just, it just wasn't, you know.
You moved from Northern Wisconsin to our neck of the woods, Mendocino County.
You said, was it, was it 94?
94.
1994.
Right at harvest time.
I had no idea what I was even getting into.
I just knew one person came out here.
Within 20 minutes, I was standing next to a pot plant watching naked girls swimming
a pond.
It was, it was like walking right into a wet dream.
I was already very into the hobby.
I already had all the seed catalogs memorized because I was buying high times and stuff
and I had grown a little.
We wired up a 175 metal halide.
My friend rigged one together.
We had a few plants and that I had saved some seeds from some decent weed and we grew them.
Some failed attempts at growing some, some Mexican seeds or whatever outside that just
went to shit.
But yeah, I mean, it was very minimal before I moved out here.
What was your, what was your impetus for coming out here?
Just weed or?
I thought I was going to end up in like New Mexico.
I kind of had dreams of desert living when I left there and I knew one guy here and he
was one of my hookups for good weed and mushrooms, acid, whatever.
He left, I saw him and he was like, I'm moving out to California.
If you're ever there, here's my aunt's number.
I still know where I am and I got a hair up my ass.
I was like, I had been all over the country traveling with my family growing up, but I
had never been in California state line.
So I just thought I'd swing through.
But like I said, within 20 minutes, all kinds of just to me, unimaginable things were unfolding
in front of my eyes.
I was just like weird hippies.
I grew up in a pretty conservative, in a box type of place.
There wasn't a lot of various lifestyle choices and diversity or anything like that.
So like where I'm raised, I get it.
This shit is entertaining right away.
I mean, stories of weird hippies in the mountains and pagan groups and old communes.
I was just like, fuck, this is entertaining right here.
And for me, Naked Girls were a big bonus.
For Francis, it would have been the other.
I see why you guys are drawn there.
So yeah, but I mean, a lot of times people think when they hear Mendocino County, because
now it's super famous for growing weed.
It's not that it wasn't famous for growing weed already.
It's just that most people's earliest memory of Mendo now is the medical era.
When you had like a leg to stand on and you could kind of, it was sort of a cat and mouse
between things.
But when we both first moved out there, it was a totally different world in the sense
of like, everybody that did it kept it pretty quiet.
There was a number of people in town that had successful businesses and stuff that did
it, but they kept real quiet about it.
It was done in the hills.
It was done tucked away.
People didn't want people to know their money came from weed.
Yeah, no, but showing shit.
Yeah, Natsu and I were talking about the successful guys were driving beat up old trucks.
You would have never known.
They weren't.
There was no flash.
That's for sure.
Yeah, we were we were talking just the other day about it.
And there'd be guys that like were worth a lot of money and their truck would be old
and a little rusted and have a few dents or whatever.
And then like they pop the hood and the whole thing is chrome and super cherry souped up.
They've got a souped up like they've got great suspension.
They've got all this nice shit, but it's like they could drive through our crap little town
and look normal.
Yeah, right.
Because nobody wanted to stand out.
Nobody wanted to get targeted.
And then even when 2015 passed, it took like he said, it took a number of years for people
to get a sense of what you could do.
Yeah.
You know, most of the people I learned from and were was exposed to, they were older already
then and had been doing it for a long time.
So they didn't even have a fancy engine in their truck.
You know, they were just chill.
They were just glad to be living up in the mountains and having a home and be hanging
out and being more comfortable than a person working at one of the local businesses or
whatever they were.
They were living good.
People got to realize too that Mendo was pretty famous for being a huge logging community,
but that had sort of fallen apart in the 80s.
And so I would classify it as pretty poor when I first arrived.
Very poor, very poor, very run down.
So like even having money was unusual.
Like everybody that had money was from some established well known family that owned businesses
in town.
Yeah.
You know?
Yeah, there was no, there was hardly even any weed around here, honestly.
I mean, even though it was Mendo and whatever, it would run out.
And if you were holding something decent, you were the man.
I mean, there really wasn't a lot then.
No.
You know?
If you, if you had two or three patches in the woods and you got away with one of them
and you got 30 pounds, you were like loaded down with cash.
You had a lot of loot.
You had whatever you needed that year.
You were doing good.
You were stoked.
$120,000 in 94 would have been, you know, that's like, that'd be like having $500,000
now practically.
The way the prices were at that time for land and homes and stuff like that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Those people.
But yet they couldn't show it off.
So it was kind of, you didn't really know who was holding.
I mean, Natsu and I were talking the other day and he met some guy that had copious amounts
and he was living in a shack and walking around in his underwear all the time.
I mean.
It's actually like I was telling him, it's probably like the wealthiest person in weed
I've ever met.
Like I'm not even exaggerating.
He literally.
Pretty sure I knew exactly who he was talking about.
Yeah.
He was like the wealthiest person I think I've ever met in weed.
And he had a bunch of huge scenes that I don't want to describe, but he had this like visqueen,
like black and white poly shack that like stretched like in between the trees with rope.
Right.
And he had a really nice like teak wooden table in this thing and he slept in it.
And he walked around like he had a huge like multi-pack of tighty whities and it was hot
up there.
And he would walk around in his tighty whities and his boots and he lived in a visqueen shack
up on the rock.
And he literally like, I mean, he and he sold like unbelievable.
I mean, he made so much money, you know, but it was just that was his life.
He ran various things.
He didn't leave the hill.
He and it was just hot and he didn't like it.
So he walked around and, you know, it almost think you'd almost think that like he escaped
from like a mental institution.
I can't, I can't blame the man.
I walk around like that in my house and I'm not.
I know me too.
I'm still I'm carrying the torch too.
Yeah.
I mean, in a way it's like if you busted that guy like.
But you know.
He had nothing.
You know, I mean, he might own 15 properties.
And have like underground grows and generators and this and that and everything else.
But it's like, you know, it's like if they came and tried to get him, it's like he didn't
have sports cars.
He didn't have a nice big house.
He didn't have boats.
He didn't have anything that they could find.
Like and that's that's kind of like what I was thinking about when you were talking about
that rings was like the real old timers around here.
They just like to live up here and they liked having enough money so they weren't poor.
And they didn't know.
Yeah, they go on vacation.
You'd meet a lot of like pot grower kids and they traveled the world and stuff, but they
weren't flashing anything else like that was like their luxury.
Like their parents would help them travel.
So that was like that was more like flashing wealth and Mendo kind of became more of a
215 era thing.
Definitely.
Definitely.
As you had a leg to stand on with the with your your legitimate.
Yeah, it was unthinkable.
Medical card to flash in the 90s.
I think I would put it.
It was unthinkable.
I only know a few people that were probably dumb enough to flash in the 90s and they ran
a some kind of Hollywood mansion.
They're bringing actors in and out to show them their little tiny shithole girl.
I think one of them went to jail and had Woody Harrelson bail him out.
That's the only people I could think of that were dumb enough to flash like that.
Like bring people into a mansion with grows and yeah, they're not very common.
One guy before I even moved here.
I mean, they've had documentaries about that guy and I can't remember his name.
He was one of the biggest importers in the country.
He was bringing everything in through the bay and he built on Robinson Creek Road.
He built this big mansion with like watchtowers on it and hidden rooms and stuff and that
happened before I got here.
It was rural, like his house was pretty hidden, but it was pretty extravagant and he went
down.
He went down big and he's out now.
He actually just bought that mansion back from this guy I knew who owned it.
There was a, maybe people should know that.
So when I first moved out here, I literally had like just like rings.
I had one friend that lived a little North of Ukiah and that was like sort of my landing
spot where he got me situated in the community.
And I thought it was going to be a bunch of like grateful dead hippies, you know, and
back to the landers and like it was like I was from the city and it was all these country
people that lived clean and beautiful.
And I got here and there was some hippies, but there was a lot of weirdos.
There was a lot of rednecks.
There was a lot of poverty.
Meeting a person like you that just seemed mellow and like nice and stuff was kind of
rare.
It was a rough crowd.
A lot of it, I mean the hippie side of it was pretty mellow, but I mean most of it was
pretty outlaws.
I mean as far as quantities went, those were people way out in the boonies and they had
guns and they were, you know, I mean tales of shooting at helicopters and there was
a lot of rough people out in the boonies growing a lot.
There's always been a way where we'd allowed a certain amount of people that have like
a lot of fucking mental illness, anger management and various other tics to like survive well,
but not have to like smooth those issues out.
And so people were suspicious, you know, there's aspects of that, you know, in the sense of
it was just very eye opening.
Like once logging left, this place was poor.
And so not only we, people think it was a weed Mecca, before the Mexicans took it over,
like Northern California was also like where lots of little batches of meth got cooked.
So there was a whole underbelly of meth people and there was a little bit of a blending of
the two communities, but not always.
But you know, there was various motorcycle groups.
There was all kinds of weirdos that own land in the hills.
I mean, it was not populated.
Growing a lot of weed was always a lot of work.
And I remember people way back then talking about like hiring meth heads because they
would work.
You just keep them high.
They'll dig 200 holes in the woods.
Yeah, and they'll steal all your shit when you're not looking.
Yeah.
And you know, I mean, maybe not if you had, I mean, people did things like tied mountain
lions in the middle of their patch and chained them up to trees.
I mean, there was...
That checks out.
The stories, the deep well of bizarre stories in this part of the world is it's troubling,
funny, you know, very, a lot of disturbing stories.
You know, it's, I mean, actually it hasn't been very violent around here the last few
years.
The partners shooting each other.
Seems like it's really tamed down finally.
It has.
Yeah.
I mean, you know, there was an aspect where there's someone even older than us that I
hope to be able to bring on soon that can speak of like the 80s.
But by the time Rings and I got here, you know, camp had been sort of hammering the
county for a good 12, 15 years, right?
You know, there was a lot of back and forth between that.
There was a lot of sort of secret society, like people really kept to themselves.
It was really hard to get accepted into certain groups.
It was very, it was a little paranoid at a time.
And then on top of that, you know, let's face it, right?
Like, so you're getting four or $5,000 a pound for your weed and you have a whole bunch of
money and it's dark and it's cold and it's Mendo and you're bored and it's winter.
And so there was all kinds of scandalous, you know, substance use, some of which was
fun and some of which had negative connotations for whole little groups of people, you know?
Yeah.
I remember on some of the old growers I met when I moved out here, they were like in the
70s or whatever, late, early 80s, they'd be like, things started getting fucked up.
They'd be like, that's when people started trading their weed for Coke.
And then it became trading it for meth, you know, and it just started getting funky, you
know?
One of the first guys I worked with told me basically that exact story that when you get
4,500 or 5,000 a pound for anything that you grow, that's decent, right?
He said, you get bored in the winter and then the one guy gets a kilo of cocaine or something,
right?
And he goes, and he goes, then the problem is, is five years later, everyone's cheating
on everyone else.
Yeah.
You know, people are messed up.
People are this, people are that.
And when you got in trouble back then, you either went to jail for two or three or four
years usually, or you had to narc on your friends.
There really wasn't a defense, you know?
So there's an aspect there of like, you know, I mean, there's, yeah, there was, you know,
there was, there was opiates.
There was every problem you could imagine existed on some scale.
There wasn't that many people, right?
So it wasn't like it, but there was, there was partiers of all kinds and there was people
that were definitely into a bunch of bad things.
And you know, weed was a way to survive.
And so like maybe on a positive note, before we get too dark on that level, but it does
set the stage because I mean, I'll tell a very quick story.
I remember like I was hiking with friends and we were up on this majestic trail and
I was still pretty like new from, from the Midwest.
So even just hills excited me, you know, like big expansive trees and stuff.
And I'm like, I'm tripping and I'm like looking out over this thing and it's all beautiful.
And I looked down and there's like dozens of cars that people, it was like a spot that
people drove up to and just to get rid of their trash, they would push their car off
the ledge and it would just roll down the hill.
And like the hills were littered with this shit.
Yeah.
I was amazed when I moved out here, like every time you found a beautiful turnoff to stop
and look at the scenery, there'd be like just trash below you every time.
Because a lot of the country people would just take their trash and drive and be going
down the road at night and just bags of trash.
They would just throw out their vehicle off, off the hill.
So I was shocked because I thought it was going to come out coming from the city.
I was like, I'm going to come to this clean, pristine place, weed growing, hippies, redwoods,
the ocean, food, organic food, all that.
And that was all there in bits and pieces.
But there was all this other stuff that I had never seen.
And you know, it makes sense because, you know, that stuff really started stopping when
the weed money really started changing the game to the point where there wasn't so much
poverty.
Most of the houses that we bought or got into or the land was very cheap.
Most of it was very run down.
People would do little indoors or do outdoors and they would end up fixing the bathroom,
fixing the roof, putting on a deck, just taking like a falling down 50s farmhouse that they
bought on a handshake deal and every weed crop improving it.
Yeah.
So many funky houses out in the country around here.
Yeah, tons.
I mean, now a lot of them are all fixed up and nice because it had 20 years of money
coming in.
Even if they're shitty still, they're worth a ton of money at this point, you know.
It's true.
You know, so but they maybe we could talk about for a second just to get right go from
like the ambiance of the area to like, what were the what were the the strains that you
were seeing when you first came out here?
And then obviously, like, you know, just so people know, there was there wasn't a lot
of there wasn't a lot of names back then.
A lot of individual families and friends had different seed lines.
Maybe you could get a cockamamie story out of a few of them about what had happened in
the past.
Yeah, but everyone grew from seeds.
So people got seeds from their friends.
And then every two or three years or something, they'd be like, Oh, I need some more seeds.
I better like take some of these males in the bushes and pollinate some of my females.
Yeah, so I have fresh stock.
It seemed like a lot of like the ranches around here, there'd be like, a couple of people
that were into making seeds and everybody else just got seeds from them.
That was pretty common too.
There was some people that were just into into that side of it.
You know, and everybody else would just go to them, buy starts from them or get seeds
from them.
That was pretty common too.
There was there was still nerds back then before we came out.
Yeah, there was they were just harder to find.
Yeah, you know, and Matt and I have had a lot of experience too with like, even people
that we would consider to be nerds today.
You ask them about specifics of when they were young, and they just don't have it.
Yeah.
They don't.
They just don't.
They just don't remember.
It turned out good or it didn't.
And even if it turned out bad, it was still worth the same obnoxious amount of money.
You know, it's still all sold.
Yeah, still.
And that's one of the good things is it led to a lot of diversity.
Yeah.
Right.
So I just want people to know before we start chatting about this that like, lineage was
often hard to come by.
There was some like poorly sourced legends about a lot of it.
But everyone that was growing weed had seeds.
Yeah.
And there was a lot of different hill seeds.
There was a lot of different neighborhoods that had different seeds.
Because like Ring said, there'd be one or two guys that was like the neighborhood nerd.
And they would do breeding and then the friends would get seeds from them and stuff.
And so there was just a lot of diversity.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And a lot of people just didn't even realize they could keep a male and make seeds.
And it wasn't that hard.
You know, they just thought it was taboo to even have a male.
Anywhere around.
Even though they could have sold their seeded shit for big bucks even back then too.
As long as it was green and trimmed decent.
You know, everything.
It's just that's just the way it was then.
I mean, you can't say like, I mean, that's why like, with being into the genetic side,
it was like when you saw something good, it wasn't all the it wasn't even that often,
you know, so if I got something good, I would be like, where'd you get this?
Can I get this?
I don't care where these are.
I'll drive anywhere to get these seeds.
You know, just to try.
You might go, you might drive up to Oregon to get some seeds and come back and pop them.
They're all herms.
You didn't, you didn't know, you know.
So yeah, most people didn't keep, most people didn't keep clones over the winter.
So it was like people would pop a certain amount of seeds in spring and go through a
process of sexing them and try to figure out how many they thought they could get away
with and then plant females where they had to put them.
I mean, even I have a buddy who's who was telling me like even some of the first like
hundred lighters he worked at in Southern Humble, right?
Indoors.
They were like, literally like they made beds on the floor and they planted seeds and they
went in and they cut the males off at the base.
Yeah because it wasn't, it wasn't a clone world yet.
Yeah.
So that's what they knew.
Yeah.
I mean you hear a few stories like, like that orange thing you had.
Yeah, the Janjo.
Yeah.
Being like an old clone.
That's super rare.
I'm going, yeah, that was, that was, that's kind of unusual.
Tell us about some of your first breeding projects.
That's what I want to know about.
I want to hear about some of these breeding projects.
Mr. Raines, what's some of the first stuff you worked with when you were actually like,
like I have a fucking goal.
I want to, I want to end up with XYZ.
Like what's some of the first stuff you worked with?
Yeah, it was just looking at things like in the way they appeared, you know, at that time
I was young and, and you know, dense and shiny was pretty desirable, you know, and it's funny
to think back of how sometimes you'd see something great and you'd be like, oh, that stinks.
I would never grow that.
But man, does it smell good?
Because you didn't want, you didn't want your shit found.
So it was more about just like finding something that would come in before the weather that
was chunky and decent to work with.
You know, we didn't want sour diesel buds at that time, even, you know, we didn't want
to do that kind of trimming.
So it was really about just making something that was decent to work with, not super needy
to like you're sticking shit way up in the mountains and visiting it here and there.
Yeah.
Keeping a close, lengthy eye on everything.
So you didn't want something that, like I remember the first time I grew like a skunk
one type of thing, we put up in the hills.
Every time we went up there, it was fucking yellow.
It just wanted shit, you know, stuff we had going would be dark green and happy with virtually
nothing.
It would do all right.
I mean, the plants weren't big.
They didn't need a lot because we weren't growing these monsters.
They were quarter pounders under the bushes, you know?
Yeah.
So they didn't need a lot.
We would just bring a bag of backwinder up in the hills and some water holding crystals
and hope that things went all right.
You know, water holding crystals.
These things could be a dream, dude.
Water crystals used to be huge.
Because you weren't able to get to your site, because most people hiked into their site
and it was far enough away from your house or it was on a...
It was a safety net, because if you only went once a week and your little water line, some
an animal fucked it up or something and they went six days without water and 105 degrees.
Wasn't cool.
I mean, we...
I've said this before, but there's a there's a big like ag store, I guess you'd call it
a garden store in Willits in Mendo called Spare Time.
And they used to have...
You used to walk into their front door and they would have a six foot tall stack of cases
of camo spray paint.
Yeah.
Because what he was just saying is if you use soft poly, the rats, the wood rats, various
other critters, they'd smell the water and it's so dry.
They'd come and they'd chew through your poly to get...
I fucking hate rats.
They're the fucking worst.
To get water.
And then all of a sudden your plants aren't getting wet.
So people would use...
Some people would use PVC, but then it was white.
So you needed to spray paint it to make it look like the ground cover.
Yeah.
Right.
Before you put it together, because otherwise, like, you know, and then they couldn't they
could smell it, but they couldn't chew through it.
It was amazing how camp was back then, too.
Like they would find like they took their time and scan the hills so closely.
They would find like a few little plants in the bushes.
They'd take their time and just work areas.
I remember diving in the bushes when I first moved.
I thought it was cool as fuck.
Like all the government is trying to find people like us.
We're diving in the bushes.
And I thought that was cool as shit.
Yeah, that's pretty punk rock.
It is.
I mean, there's an aspect, too, people don't get.
That's why like...
Everybody take a shot every time not so says aspect.
People would hide them in the trees, like on little on on.
I never did that.
But I had friends who would put them on on, you know, raised platforms in the trees because
the the helicopters, they'd be looking at a certain line and they a lot of times their
eyes would miss it or they'd put them along the line of a tree line or manzanitas.
You'd hollow out branches and you'd still leave the top cover and hopefully they would
make it.
But they were after it so hard.
You know, you really had to be careful and then you would take different ways to get
to your spot often.
Like it's not like you drove your vehicle there or you drove your ATV or whatever.
You didn't even want to walk.
No same pathway because they'd see the path from the air.
So you would take different routes to get there and get in and get out.
You know, yeah.
Walk on the animal trails real carefully to not make them look weird from there.
Yeah, it was fun to try to camouflage things and and it was fun to be a little ninja.
I mean, we weren't even doing much.
It was just worth something.
And really, we were just into it.
You know, we were into the plants.
We wanted to have some.
We were willing to hike up mountains to get a very little bit.
You know, it was fucking nuts, dude.
I can't take that kind of heart trauma like going up and watching like, you know, eight
of your big fucking rips like you plant one for these plant one for pigs and plant one
for you like that.
Fuck that.
I mean, that was so dramatic.
There was even in spring when you're like setting it all up.
That's when you're digging your holes or you're bringing in your if you're not if you're
not using the right the earth there.
That's when you had to hike in your you know, your your your soil.
You had to bring in your amendments so you could feed even if you were using native earth.
It was hard to feed on nothing.
Run your water lines, maybe drill a spring and then you're crawling in the bushes, carving
out little spaces for your patches.
That whole drill is spring like people my age, like from California.
We don't even get what the fuck that means.
Drill a fucking spring.
What does that mean?
Put in a spring box.
So the spring collects water in the spring box and then run piping from that box.
Sometimes hundreds of yards, especially if you're downhill.
You would try to find water, which in shifts to find the springs.
How do you do this?
I mean, there was little springs on properties.
You would you would like build a box and then just rig up a pipe going out the end.
It would collect a little bit and just slowly trickle.
I mean, a lot.
Sometimes we had them feeding little tanks or something, but because you needed springs,
because it's not like you could put in a well.
Because even if you had solar or something like that, they'd see it.
Yeah.
So I don't even like I just don't get how people found springs out in the fucking mountains.
Like how did you find these things under the ground for wet spots?
I met people that knew where the springs were, you know, or on properties where there was
like little hidden parts of the property that had a little water source.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And basically a spring box is just digging a hole big enough to put a certain size, like
man-made box in there.
That's going to collect the water and let it build up to a usable amount.
And then you can drain it out one end and gravity feed.
Yeah, gravity feed it.
Yeah, for the most part.
Yeah.
So I started.
I started like a siphon.
Yeah, sometimes.
I mean, you know, and if you had a low, low grade to somewhere, it was tricky to get the
bubbles out of those lines.
I remember working on that very hard.
Just hiking back and forth to see if it worked now or not.
That's a great question.
Was there ever turf wars over springs?
Fuck man.
Hell yes, there was.
I was thinking about that.
I was thinking about that when, when 215 happened.
I mean, a lot of, you don't hear this talked about very much.
So all these water sources in the mountains, people kind of had them.
That was kind of their turf.
You know, they had those spots.
And when 215 happened, the cartels came with guns and pretty much kicked everybody off
their spot.
And what it, but 215 was allowing all the people that had those spots to do it right
in their fucking yard then.
So it was like a little transfer of territories or whatever.
Yeah.
But I mean, people used to, there used to be a thing where, you know, I mean, people
would have arguments over how far away the patch should be from your home so that if
they did camp it, they would just take the patch and not mess with you.
And there would be arguments about how much you should hike and how far away.
And so it's not like it was just like off in the bushes, you know, a hundred yards from
your house.
A lot of these things you'd hike into or hike up to, and it would be a good distance
away.
And that's why the little, how like the little trails were so like, you really had to think
about that stuff.
You didn't, if they saw a trail, they'd just walk right to it and there would be, you know,
you had to really ninja that stuff.
And be careful, you know?
So yeah, it's like, I remember like a lot of times, especially when I was hiking up
like dry amendments or something like that.
In the spring, I would just want to puke because you're like going uphill and you've got like
a 50 pound thing of food on your back and you're hiking.
And then, you know, you get to mid summer and it doesn't even feel like anything because
you're in shape and you've done it for months.
But in the beginning you would, and that was as a young buck, I'd be like, Oh my God, this
is fucking rough.
So another thing that's kind of funny that people should know is that for me, it's like
you use something like fish meal or bone meal or blood meal or something.
And then all of a sudden you realize like, Oh, that attracts bears.
Yeah.
You know?
Oh yeah.
And bears are some kind of big animal comes in looking for what smells because you've
got composting fish meal or composting crab meal or whatever.
And then a big ass bear starts to dig in your soil and ruins your patch because you use
the wrong kind of fertilizer.
Yeah.
I think the people I learned from right away was it was like back on right away because
they were hippies.
But then a lot of people who didn't care about that kind of stuff, they use those little
asthma coat pellets, balls, and they would just put those in there and that would be
done.
All they had to do was just add water.
Time release.
I mean, there was some people that once you, I mean, and I'll say this too.
There was people that had established spots that they were able to do small patches in
year after year.
And so some of those people had some really nice soils, some really nice holes.
They amended them well every year.
So it was like an active organic situation.
And so there was some better pot that came out of those.
Well, in the water, the water was really good.
The water quality really affected the weed back then too.
People weren't using city water, treated water.
It was just like mountain water, you know, and just like any other living thing.
The quality of water is, it makes a difference.
You know, it had minerals in it.
It had little bits of stuff in it.
That's where I learned too that the old timers always taught me that pot was like a lateral
root growth plant.
And so they would always say like in the bushes, it's better to dig like an 18 inch or a two
foot deep hole that was wide rather than one that was deep.
You know, they're like the plant's going to want to go wide and you'll get more weight.
So like make a shallow depression and fill it in rather than digging like a, I mean,
there was people that would dig like four or five, six foot deep holes, but that would
have been me.
I would have used that one.
Dude, you're such, it's such a bitch.
You're like crawling in the manzanitas with like a shovel that can strap to your back
and then you're underneath there and you're just like chomping at the ground.
I mean, six feet with a tiny little, and then you got to like, I was young at that stage.
I mean, because nothing fucking mattered, you know, you just got it done or whatever,
but it wasn't easy.
And then you had to remove the, you know, like, because a lot of it, a lot in Mendo
is red clay.
It's not like we have like a ton of black, loamy, deep rich earth that you can just like
plant into.
It's like mountainous and rocky and clay like.
And so you definitely had to add some stuff to it and amend it if you wanted to get anywhere.
It's not like you could just like dig a hole and plant.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Let's get into strains guys.
People want to hear about the strains.
Oh God.
Okay.
So I'll say.
It's always so funny because without clones to reference people, it's like you're just
telling them about a ghost.
You know, like a little bit, a little bit, you know, but I had a moment today where I
was harvesting some volunteer accidental thing that popped up in my yard and the rain got
it.
It was the only early thing I had and it had some big soft colas on it and the rain kind
of started getting to them a little botrytis.
And I'm smelling the piece I picked a few days ago and I'm smelling it and I'm like,
this smells just like Afghans 30 years ago.
What was it?
Do you remember what the volunteer was from?
Yeah, it was some cookie cush crap crossed with my blue dynamite, super lemon OG crap.
Like I had one mail last year, so it had to be from that mail.
I can dig some blue dynamite crap over cookie cush shit.
You know, people hate cookies and I don't like what it stands for either, but ultimately
if it's gassy and it has a good, I mean, if it's gassy, it's still decent smoke.
I mean, sure.
I can't stay high off it.
I can't, I can't stay high off.
It has no legs for me.
Some of it's strong and some of it's not.
And sometimes I, when I first found cookies like forum and animal and tried those things,
I actually appreciated not being so fucking, I don't need to get sledgehammer fucking freaked
out stoned all the time.
Sometimes I want to.
But I mean, I was high.
I just wasn't just because I'm not tripping the fuck out.
I'm not high.
You know, not everything has to have me fucking just.
Forum for me, like I get high, like it's a good high for 10 minutes and then it's just
like, going.
That's fine if you got to go pick your kid up from school in a half an hour.
That's a good point.
It's good if you want to stay high long.
There are times and I talk about this with rings quite a bit actually, where like, I'll
smoke something like that my headband like the LA and I'll go into town stupidly.
Like I've done this hundreds of times to myself over the years.
I'll get all baked on some of the wrong thing and I'll go into town and I'll be standing
in line at this weird little store and it'll be like the Twilight Zone in line.
And I'm like, why am I here?
The street store.
Great.
Oh no.
But one thing I will say about cookies is that I don't like cookies that much either.
But two things about it.
One is that since we were just talking about the gorilla era, I would have flipped out
to have something cookies what came up in the wrong era.
If we would have had that shit in the gorilla era because cookies requires low light.
It's super dense, right?
It doesn't have to get that big to weigh a lot.
It doesn't need a lot.
It doesn't like food.
It doesn't like sunlight.
So I could have put it in the deep shade, not fed it very much and just loaded manzanita
patches with cookies and it would have came out like cookies.
And it would have come in early enough to not mold?
Oh, it would have been great.
It would have been great.
A lot of the things people are growing when I moved out here did not come in early.
Not everybody grew specifically for early.
That was kind of my own mission was to create something early that was strong and looked
good and decent to work with and stuff like that.
But when I moved out here, I was hanging out on a mountain and people were bringing in
fucking baseball colas from out of the rain at the end of October.
The people I learned from were really good.
And that was, they knew how to let things get there.
They weren't going to freak out and pull shit.
Yeah, they really they they taught me a lot of stuff.
Like I just got lucky and met people that really were into it and and cared about it
and were also down to take their time to show me some stuff and tell me why they did this.
Or why they didn't do that.
There was a lot of just hill weed that had a good amount of sativa in it of all kinds
back then.
And it took a while.
There's a lot of weed that didn't finish until say like late October to early November.
But it resisted the rain pretty well.
And Mendo most falls, there's a lot of warm dry fall in Mendo.
It might rain for two or three days and then be sunny for weeks.
It just depends.
So there was a lot of sativa weed and because all the weeds sold, there wasn't like I think
what started with the purple craze and then you know the various things is everyone started
getting the same cuttings and blending them.
This era is the total opposite of that.
Like all kinds of random unique weed, some of it pretty midsy, but all kinds of different
stuff just floated around because all weeds sold.
Yeah, and every smell you can imagine today was already there back then.
You know, if you took the time to see as much as possible, which I was into if people were
like I was just into it.
You know, I was just like, oh, somebody's got some different shit.
I'll go and look through it and ask him questions if I like some.
But I remember smelling super intense cherry back then, super intense lime, all the earthy
skunky Afghani smells, and just kind of a little bit of everything and all different
leafs, all different kinds of shit, you know.
Talk about some of the most unique shit that you remember seeing during your early days
there.
Not necessarily by name, but describe it if you can.
Yeah.
I mean, I keep on thinking about this, some stuff that my friends grew it actually down
in Watsonville.
And I had a girlfriend down there that was going to college.
So I was down there a lot when they were doing it.
But one of the guys was ex-military, he had friends up in Humboldt.
And they had some little gorilla thing in a canyon in Watsonville.
And when it was done, he brought us all this stuff.
And it was just like satiba, you know, and there was, there was there, maybe it was kind
of purple, but it wasn't.
It was like, great.
And these guys knew how to cure things beautifully.
They were really into it.
They took their time, they cared.
And we called it gray bud.
And one of the one of those two satiba strings was called golden lion.
So somebody up in Humboldt would recognize that name.
I just yeah, golden lion.
And you know, I just figured it was from some Rasta crew up in Humboldt.
And but I remember that gray bud, my friends and I smoking it and like not even talking.
Like we just left our fucking bodies in the lead.
And it was fucking amazing.
But the most memorable things to tie Afghans from Spirok, one of the first things I saw
that just had everything, beauty, smell, really wild highs and stuff.
I remember my buddy would take his scissors hash and it looked like what we call monkey's
blood opium.
It was like, translucent red.
And I remember smoking that and being sitting on the ground and just holding the ground
waiting to come just to get my bearings.
It was so potent.
But those tie Afghans blew me away.
You know, these characters were so funny.
Lowbird, a guy who called himself Lowbird, a weird jungle monkey from Hawaii growing
Hawaiian sativas in there in the like 94.
He had great stories of Swazis.
And he said all him and the old heads, they liked Swazis.
That was like the gold in Hawaii in like the early 90s or something.
It's interesting.
Yeah, I never got to see that.
He grew some Hawaiian sativa seeds here and would bring the plants in every night because
they weren't going to get done until I think he harvested them at Christmas.
They were fucking great.
They had really floral, sweet smells, really nice.
Some of them had really nice little shade of purple and some of them stayed green no
matter how cold it was.
And some of that too is like because weed was so valuable then, it was a lot easier
to dry and handle things if you wanted to in a really nice way.
Because there wasn't so much of it.
Like it wasn't some overwhelming amount of shit.
You could treat it nicer, you know.
And that made a difference too.
One of the things maybe we should note is that when you get pounds or you'd see pounds,
most of them were all mixed phenos.
Because they weren't from clone.
So you would get, they would be pounds and they would be all the same line, you know,
but they would trim it up and they would blend it up and you'd be looking at this and this
would smell like that and this would smell like that.
And then you'd be like, oh, wait, what is that one?
And then you start digging in the bag, looking for weed that looks like that and picking
out and trying to gather yourself a little pile.
And you're like, that one right there.
We always joked, we always joked how people would, there'd be like an overripe purple
bud in a mixed bag that had no resin on it.
Just smelled like garbage because it was way overripe.
And somebody would see a pound, they'd focus in on that one.
And they'd be like, look at that purple.
Fuck yeah.
We'd just laugh because it was garbage.
That would probably be me.
A young me would be doing that.
But I mean, there's an aspect to and then some people would be like, oh, some of these
pounds are kind of midsy.
But these plants are really flavorful.
So we're going to take a few ounces and put them into the top of each of these pounds
so that when people open the bag, there's like a nice selection and it makes them think
that the whole bag is like that.
But really it's like, these are nice and the rest of them are just okay.
But it all went because people wanted good weed.
There wasn't hard.
They didn't have any options to get better weed.
There was no, there was no like you weren't getting rejected.
Yeah.
If you just dried yourself stuff nice, got kept it green, got it dry enough to where
it wouldn't turn yellow right away.
Your shit was golden.
You know, I mean, it was really appreciated by people, whatever it was.
Sometimes I remember that one time I grew that skunk one.
It was funny because people are like, this shit is weak and they were just bummed on it.
I can imagine.
I've heard similar experiences recently with another offloading of skunk one.
They didn't have money and they were spending 50 bucks on an eighth even here in Mendo.
You know, if they took a smoked, you know, they would brash and shit out.
If they were taking a couple of hits of something and not getting tore back, they were kind
of bummed.
Well, and also one thing that I don't know if a lot of people realize, seeds prices probably
have instead of with inflation risen, have maybe dropped now compared to where they were.
They've always been pretty, especially scentsy.
They've always been pretty expensive for the time.
They've dropped massively because if you think about the purchasing power of what that the
seed cost hasn't changed all that, that much, you know, but I mean, obviously there's some
people that have some hype that try to like counter inflation or whatever, but you know,
for me, I can imagine buying seeds from Europe back then, you know, like some of my older
brothers friends went to Europe and brought back seeds in the eighties and stuff.
And they had their little, they lived in Metro areas, you know, Minneapolis, things like
that.
And they would have their little closet grows about 400 or a couple of 400s or whatever.
And so they had that Dutch stuff, but, you know, when I moved out here, I was just like,
man, it didn't seem like that Dutch stuff even mattered out here, but it did everywhere
else, you know?
I mean, most of the Dutch stuff was imported from either California, Washington or the
Pacific Northwest.
So they didn't really have a need to go to the Dutch to get a fucked up version of what
was already there.
I never heard people say like, Oh, we went to, we put Northern Lights in this, or we
put Skunk One in this.
It was like, it was mostly older stuff.
And it really didn't have much, which I appreciated.
I already was a total nerd, a high times nerd.
I knew all those strains.
I lusted at wanting to try them and stuff, but I was able to try some Northern Lights
and Skunk Northern Lights mixes that my brother's friends had made and my other, one of their
friends grew G13 clones in the early 90s.
And I got to smoke that, but most that was, yeah, they were actually the first crew I
knew that did clones.
They kept stuff.
If they had a great plant, they kept it.
They were into their gardening.
There was actually this crew from before I even moved out to Mendo from Wisconsin that
had this, they called it Blueberry Skunk.
And I used to get it in 93, 94, 95, 96.
I never was able to get a clone of it out in California, but they had little, you know,
in Madison and some of these rural areas outside of Madison, they would have these little four
and six lighters and they would all grow this Blueberry Skunk.
That's what they called it.
And it was really attractive.
I have no idea what it was related to, and I never grew it myself, but I got buds of
it.
And, you know, but what's interesting about that too, is that when you found somebody
that was intelligent in the sense that like they cared about the, intelligent is the wrong
word, I'm sorry.
When they cared about lineage.
Yeah, when they were fucking autistic nerds like us.
Right.
Like, you know, lineage, not intelligence, but just like a weed nerdism to like, they'd
tell you something like that.
Like, oh, it's a Mexican with a Swazi or it's a Colombian mixed with some Afghan that we,
and they get, you know, but most of it was the name of the closest little mountain or
town that it came from.
When I first moved here, there was so much weed that was like, oh, this is from White
Thorn.
This is from Panther Gap.
This is from the hills above Covolo.
This is some Sherwood Road.
This is some Long Valley.
This is some, you know, some Alder Point weed.
And it was just named kind of by the little town or the little area or the little hills
that it came from.
Yeah.
Yeah.
More than anything.
Nobody wanted their names associated with anything, you know.
And so when I brought out the Maui, because I, you know, I brought out the Maui and the
Crystal Chunk to California because from Chicago, that was all we knew was like, the only reason
why you started seeds was to find a killer clone and then you use the clone.
Yeah.
You know, we were all indoor and stuff like that.
So you know, and so I came here and clones, like you said, clones were rare.
People were shocked that I was like running rooms of the same thing.
Yeah.
I had like.
Keepers, keepers were just plants that were kept because nobody kept shit.
You could have kept anything.
And if you had those, I mean, there just wasn't many clones.
So I, you know, I always think of your Maui, Afgu.
What else?
Yeah, we have the Afgu up here, Matt.
Oh yeah.
Big time.
It was early and it looked like indoor because it was so resinous and stuff.
Yeah.
Very popular because it came in at a decent time outdoors too.
It has amazing turps too, unless you get sick of it, because pretty much everything with
Afgu smells like Afgu.
And you can't get sick of it if that's all you're smelling like that cantaloupey, weird
mangoey.
I loved it.
There was a Northern Lights blueberry, I think that went around here that smelled, it either
was the same or it smelled very similar early on back then.
And that was sort of like when you did a bunch of outdoor seeds and stuff like that, that
was my first experience with like, oh wow, there really are dominant traits, you know?
And I remember some of my first readings thinking that I could breed away from certain things
I wasn't fond of and breed towards other things I liked more.
And then sometimes that worked really well and I'd pat myself on the back and sometimes
that trait was just ingrained.
And I was like, oh, I can't get rid of it.
You know, it's just part of it.
You know, like you were saying things like Afgu smell like Afgu or terpenolene or something
like that, you know, like there's things where you're like, oh, I can't get it out of there.
I remember getting really sick of Afgu pounds because I was bored.
I just thought all clones were like great to see and maybe they were great to smoke
here and there.
But as far as the mission I was on, all clones were boring unless you just made seeds with
them and then the seeds you grew out of them were fun.
You know, like I just wasn't a clone guy ever pretty much.
I loved sour so much that I kept that for a long time.
And a lot of times having other friends hold it at times or this or that, I kept it around
because it was just like a daily driver to me, like just something I like smoking.
And we can talk about the top three favorite strains, but I'm not sure I can get any strain
names out of you.
We can actually talk to him about that.
I know all the clones, you know, I always hung out with people that grew the clones
and enjoyed them and stuff.
I mean, as far as like things that are identifiable, there certainly is some, some not even identifiable.
I just mean like top three favorite smokes, not even necessarily strains, but smokes events
with smell like taste and like, I mean, that's really like their strain names, just identifiable
stuff and we use that.
So other people know exactly what you're talking about.
We can transcend that just by talking about what it smelled like, tastes like the highs.
Maybe I could interject just really quick though, is that before we get away from it,
which is there was two sour diesels I saw early on.
One is the one that I still have, which I've talked about before, but then there was this
other one that, that rings was much more familiar with that existed that was took longer, was
more feathery, hermed more, was more delicate.
So you could talk about that for a minute because the sour that I ended up keeping was
one of two that I saw.
And the one that he had was much different, but we, but it was, it was spread around back
then, but it was significantly different in growth pattern and it had a similar nose.
It was definitely similar, but it was very different in growth.
Yeah, we considered it to be like piney.
I mean, it, it was that, I mean, the whole sour thing was just crazy how it just took
off.
I mean, the first time I got it actually was from a guy, mean gene knows too.
He grew up near him.
The guy gave it to me and I was like, this shit is ugly because still at that time, everybody
basically wanted something dense round with a lot of resin on it.
And my buddy handed me the sour and I was just like, fuck, this shit's all feathery
as peach colored hairs on it and just looked weird to me.
But as soon as we smoked it, it was just like, I remember looking at it and just being, wow,
this is going past what the norm is like this.
It was the first like commercial thing that didn't look like everything people wanted
for a long time.
Dense round, crystally, blah, blah, blah.
You know, it was just such good smoke.
It would make people forget about those other things they thought they desired.
So I thought it played a really good role in that, like kind of breaking down some walls
that were just always there.
Like it didn't always look great in a bag, you know, sticky, little fluffy.
I mean, it really, you had to hit it right to get a lot of resin on it.
But even if it didn't have a lot of resin on it, it had big flavor and it had that zippy
high that was real clear.
You know, I was a lot of it.
Brokers would buy it on the nose.
Oh yeah.
Well, it seemed like...
I would say trimmers would cry because they wanted that big, the stuff that he was just
talking about, all that big, chunky, resinous, that stuff's easy to trim and people can get
through it.
Sour gets popular and a bunch of people are going that cut and it's feathery and shitty
and loose and sticky and you have to be all gentle with it and not fuck it up.
It would give trimmers...
It made me question why they were fucking doing it.
Why?
Yes.
So, sour introduced psychotherapy to trim bossing because you had to like convince your
trimmers like this is going to be worth it.
Please do this.
I know it sucks because it was a struggle.
Sometimes it looked ugly.
Outdoor, I mean, it still had all the turps and the good buzz and stuff like that, but
it did not form up into a piece.
You know, but then I saw some people growing in greenhouses and feeding it intense food.
You know, we were kind of more on the hippie organic side, so we weren't dropping big,
you know, we weren't throwing Grow More on it or anything like that, you know.
So, but I remember people pulling a lot of different looking stuff out of that same clone
just by the way they were feeding it, for sure.
They could get some pretty big, dense bugs out of it if they nuked it with food.
But I mean, top three strains, I'd almost say sour, sour, sour.
I'm not really that attached.
I'm into keeping on moving and seeing what comes out of these seeds that I've collected
or bought or whatever over the years.
I don't really get that attached.
They all give me high.
There's certain highs I like better.
But I'm willing to have a bad buzz just to try something new, you know.
Or something I don't like.
I just like to keep moving because I want to see plants.
It's kind of, I was a hobbyist when I got into it.
It was just like more plants, all from seed preferably.
Just so I could, it was like information to me to go to those kind of gardens and just
see expressions, see different tendencies.
You know, you could, after a while you're just like, oh, that's heavy Afghani at this
guy's garden, you know.
I think that's something like me and Caleb and a bunch of other people that are big into
identification through visual and bringing for traits and all that.
The one advantage that we had was seeing a lot of different strains.
And like I told you the other day, my mentor, Hogg, he would always tell me like, you want
to learn?
You learn by growing the baselines.
Baselines, baselines.
Normites, skunk one, haze.
You want to grow as many different types of Afghanis as you can.
You want to grow as many ties as you can and Mexicans and Colombians.
You don't, if you don't grow those, you don't know shit about pot.
And that's what he told me.
So I love it.
That's cool.
That's good.
Yeah.
It's a good place to start.
And you see, you know, one of the things that always interests me when I, when Rings and
I are in one of our many combos is that there's certain lines that he's been playing with
for a very long time.
And then you really get to see because you've crossed it to a lot of different things.
What are the traits that are dominant that keep popping up?
What does it give to crosses?
You know, there's things that he'll be like, tell me, he'll be like, you know, a lot of
people don't like this line, but here's four things that I just love that it just throws
in its progeny all the time.
And so I kind of lean towards it, you know, because of these things, you know, and there's
stuff he's done.
Like, you know, we did, it's gotten Pat, we, you know, we did a little, a little collab,
if you personal collab where he had some, you could talk about this.
He had some old maple leaf indica from Sensi seeds and that era where they were still selling
it.
That we blended with a bunch of stuff.
Blue dynamite.
You know, there's been, you know, sours and cushions and various different lines.
And I basically, you know, he makes seed basically every year.
So some of this stuff, someone was asking in the comments, when did you first get blue
dynamite?
2002.
I said early 2000s.
But yeah, that's when I got sick of just kind of bringing my stuff to itself over and over
and kind of just being like, okay, this stuff has this kind of range and I want to see other
people's shit.
I want to see what these people in Canada are fucking with or, or whatever.
And I had read about maple.
So I ordered some maple seeds and it's funny because I've bought so many things over the
years to check them out.
All these things that I hear old schoolers talking about.
The only things I really have that are still fresh and poppable in my collection to this
day have blue dynamite in them or maple leaf in them.
Everything else is just come and gone.
And it's not that I think those things are the greatest or this, I mean, none of it's
the greatest to me.
It's just all more, more, more, more.
I just want to see more plants, but they were reliable.
They were reliable to do what they did.
Yeah.
You know, the maple was great.
It wasn't very good looking.
Generally, it had a nice smell and it had a great smoke ability.
That's why I liked it.
You said a lot of terpidylene expressions, but there was some cushy in there or more
dense Afghani type.
I remember when Natsu and I did that little collab, I remember Caleb hit him up and said,
do you see any actual maple leaves?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I had one.
I had one.
I sent it.
I sent it to him.
You know, that's cool.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And I mean, we kind of did like a little open pollination with that.
Not that it was very big.
I think we got four boys and three girls to pop out of some of the old seed, but we
let them pollinate each other like crazy.
And then we threw in a bunch of like clones that I like.
Yeah.
If I, you know, chems, chem 91, chem D, Mendo P, the tan Joe, the super silver haze, the
headband, you know, just a collection of stuff.
Because you know that.
I threw a bunch of OG from seed in there.
I threw a few things from seed in there too.
And I've grown, I mean, Natsu hasn't popped many of those, but I've popped, I've seen
hundreds and hundreds of plants out of there.
The loompa headband maples and I had a Karma OG.
I had like going, a buddy of mine wanted to.
Would you say that Karma OG never heard of her?
Go ahead.
What was interesting, it was really cool.
I had a buddy a few years ago call and he was off the grid and he was like, I want to
just depth a whole bunch of seed stuff.
Can I get some seeds?
So I gave them tons and I gave them the loompa headband with the maple and the Karma OG I
had made with the maple.
And it was, it's like the classic OG story where they're all kind of the same, even though
they got all these names.
Those two rows, those two rows, they might as well been from the same batch of seed.
There was basically like two main expressions and they looked like each other.
You know, so that's why I like running seeds.
You get to just see that kind of shit, you know?
I crossed, the other day I was trying to add it.
I was something like nine different OGs to the blue bonnets just to see how each different
one combined to the same exact male.
There was pretty true breeding through the same expressions.
And there was very little variance.
I mean, like most of the, like the SFV and the Louie and all that, you can't, it's hard
to tell them apart.
Yeah.
Yeah.
They're so similar.
And I mean, sure, there was a little different smells and stuff, you know, in the different
cuts, but the genetic, whatever was in them wasn't that far apart.
Exactly.
And, you know, I mean, I don't know.
It's interesting in that regard because, you know, just so people know too, it's not like,
I don't think that those maple seeds that we use were like from the original pack.
They had probably been used a couple of times.
They were just spread to themselves several times to just keep them going.
I mean, that was 15 years after I bought them.
What was the Med Woman?
Med Woman?
Who brought, oh yeah, that dude.
I couldn't believe he posted a picture of this Med Woman.
Med Woman was a Northern Lights something.
If you look it up, it won a contest up in Oregon or Washington years ago, and it won
for being like a good medical strain.
I had a buddy up in Eugene that sourced some really great clones.
I was in 06, 07.
I was living up in Mount Shasta area, and my buddy from Eugene came down.
He brought from Roseburg, Oregon.
He brought Med Woman.
He brought Shishkeberry.
He brought a grapefruit cut that is unlike any grapefruit I've ever seen again.
It was fucking amazing.
It's one of the few ones I wish I had because usually I just don't care.
I just want to pop her.
That grapefruit was fucking insane.
Cheese, he brought down some really great stuff.
I threw this thing my friend and I made, the Bilo.
I threw that on everything because that's what we had.
I had moved back down here and we brought these beat up moms down here.
Nobody really had the capacity to like take cuts and keep stuff or we weren't interested
at that time.
It was kind of a transitional time in my life.
So we just threw what pollen we had on it.
I still have a whole shitload of those somewhere in the freezer.
Jamie Tworkowski The seeds?
Or the grapefruit?
David Gerrold The grapefruit's the one that got away.
The last batch of those seeds I gave to a buddy to grow out the year we had our fire.
They burnt.
Jamie Tworkowski So there's no more grapefruit hybrids?
David Gerrold No.
And we've tried to find that cutting in Oregon several times.
Jamie Tworkowski That'd be very hard with such a generic name.
David Gerrold Yeah, I tried to grow out relic grapefruit
to see it because he was in the similar area and he had a lot of the same things he worked
with shish kabab, cheese, grapefruit.
I'm like, man, he probably had the same ones I did.
I grew those out.
There was no crazy grapefruit.
There was old school smells in it.
It was cool, but it was not.
Jamie Tworkowski Different kind of grapefruit probably.
David Gerrold Yeah, yeah, definitely.
Jamie Tworkowski Yeah, I mean, people call different C-99s grapefruit.
We have the sweet pink grapefruit.
We have grapefruit Romulan.
I mean, there's so many different grapefruits.
David Gerrold Yeah.
Jamie Tworkowski I mean, the good thing about it is, is that
it's like I was talking about it.
It's kind of funny when people find some kind of terp or combination, and then start to
claim that like anything that does that comes from them.
Right?
Like, if there's grapefruit, there's going to be grapefruit again.
Just because we lost the terp combination of certain ones.
It's common enough that it popped up in enough different things that I'm confident it'll
exist again in some format.
David Gerrold Well, it's kind of like the blueberry story,
right?
Like, I mean, one person claims all smells of blueberry and cannabis is all his descendants,
you know, etc.
But I know that, like, I've seen blueberry pop out of Irene Sour Diesel, you know, like
super blueberry terps.
It's possible to find it in all kinds of different combinations.
We always run into it again.
Jamie Tworkowski Yeah, you never know.
I mean, especially if your seeds have a good deep pool in them, you know.
You get all kinds of shit.
I mean, when I grew out the maple Mendoperps, I probably popped, I don't know, two, three
hundred of them or at least 200 of them or, you know, to be conservative.
The range is fucking amazing.
You get such, and that's fun to me at this point.
Instead of trying to make something consistent, I almost would rather make something wild
at this time that you can actually get something unique out of, you know.
David Gerrold Yeah, I mean, Caleb makes a really good point,
dude, where he talks about, like, he used the Mendoperps as an example, because it has
a really wide genetic.
He was like, if I gave 100 S1s to like seven or eight different friends and asked them
to select what they like and breed with it, you would probably end up with wildly different
selections.
And people would take it in their own way.
And it wouldn't be similar at all.
And I think the maple is kind of like that.
The maple, the maple from Sensi is probably, it's probably like two or three different
of Neville's maple cuts and a little skunk one.
And it's probably pretty wide, you know, and then the Mendo's wide.
So you cross that and you just get like a whole host of it isn't really is what it is.
It can be a lot of different things.
Caleb Scherer The maple was dominantly, like I told Matt the
other night, it had long inner nodes, it had fluffy kind of terpeneline based stuff, some
more resinous, some looked pretty ropey dopey.
But everybody liked it as far as just smoking a joint, you know, it was good.
Every once in a while, I'd say the rare thing in that line was to get something that actually
had a little density to it and a resinous appearance to it.
And more of a like a fat leaf.
That wasn't the common thing, but it was in there.
Matt Wittman You know, I had that same experience with
black domino, the exact same experience.
It was one that I expected to find some faster finishing, almost blackish purple, like really
resinous, cushy looking things.
And what I got was exactly what you described, which were like 13, 14 week, airy, fluffy
terpeneline, not a lot of stuff.
That one actually didn't have a lot of variance that from what I saw, it was just all tended
to be that.
Yeah, but I'm sure there was other stuff in it just in the fact that I popped that.
Caleb Scherer Yeah, you pop like 30 or better.
Matt Wittman Exactly.
I popped 10.
You know, it's like, what are you gonna find?
Caleb Scherer I remember people ordering scentsy, Afghani
ones based on the picture.
Matt Wittman Oh, yeah.
Caleb Scherer Leaf and stuff.
They are all just super tall, super leggy.
They weren't, they were, they did not get fat leaf, buff, structured shit out of that.
You know?
Matt Wittman Yeah, there's a lot of really boofy, ugly
Afghani number one.
I've only seen like a few really prime cuts ever selected from that line.
I will say that, you know, a lot of the Afghan that first came over to Mendo and Humboldt
and stuff, a lot of the old timers, I think that's a consistent thing with Afghani in
the sense that, like, there's a lot of kind of boofy Afghan.
Caleb Scherer He ran that G13 NL2 from Neville, some of
the last original seeds he had and it is exactly as he's describing it.
It was terpenelein, loose.
Matt Wittman Yeah, he wasn't stoked.
Yeah, no, but I mean, there's an aspect where then you find a pheno that you want and breed
with that.
And there are, you know, it's like, that's kind of like everybody wants land race, but
nobody wants diversity because that means it's like, they don't want to like pop a few
packs and it all sucks.
Caleb Scherer Yeah, I get excited about ugly plants at this
point.
Like, to me, that's fun.
And some of those really ugly things smoked really nice.
And some of this really dense, crazy stuff.
To me, that's not like the most.
Matt Wittman I need to get you some of that rose flow I
grew.
I know I gave the rest to Crybaby of it pure, but it is some of the ugliest fucking shit
I've ever seen in my life.
It burns up with any nutrients, but it's bright red, pretty leaves, like there's so much pretty
about it.
And for flows, there's like no density to it, but it breeds great.
Ugliest fuck, not much resin.
It's one of those that you, it's very unique.
Caleb Scherer Uh huh.
Yeah.
I know.
I mean, there's, you know, we didn't need to really be visually that appealing until
Instagram.
I view the Instagram era as like a massive change in what weed had to look like.
There was lots of weed that was somewhat ugly.
But if it worked and smoked and tasted really nice and got you zippy high, like you were
stoked.
Like he was talking about that sour, you know, that sour it was, it was it was stemmy, it
was loose.
It was funky looking in some ways.
But it got you ripped high.
And it tasted great.
Matt Wittman Tasted amazing.
Yeah.
You know, so yeah, I think of it a little different.
I think the market and people just always especially when spending 50 bucks was a lot
to them because they didn't have much money.
They wanted it to be like, they wanted the appearances that we used to call it fake,
fake tits and bleach bond hair weed.
You know, they wanted dense, crystally buds just to look at because
Blackberry Kush.
I mean, honestly, dude, you know, I remember on I never fucked with that clone.
I saw tons of it.
But I remember getting an ounce of weed in San Francisco in the 90s once and it was we
you know, we just called it hydro.
You know, some kind of indoor and there was only like nine buds.
And we were like, so pumped.
You know, because each bud was like, two to four grams.
Yeah, you know what I mean?
And it was like looking at like these chunky or like, oh, God, somebody gave me like the
breeder stash.
Yeah, no, because, you know, it was one of those things where it was like, it wasn't
that common to see.
So you wanted visually appealing.
I don't remember anything about that weed except for how impressed we were that it was
nice buds.
Yeah, it looked nice.
And yeah, it was just blue.
It was just bright green and bright orange hairs and frosty and all these big chunks.
A lot of times people and they got an eighth that just had one chunk in it.
They were kind of butthurt, you know, like they they are they questioned if you were
giving them 2.8 instead of 3.5.
Of course, yeah.
But it but if it was good, if it was strong, they didn't forget, you know, they'd want
more.
Let's see.
Someone asked, what were the earliest purple strings, ringsaw and callie?
I'd say the earliest.
Well, the real the earliest ones were just overripe, depleted plants that maybe turned
purple and they weren't.
We thought, oh, somebody said they had purple.
We'd be like, oh, it's garbage, you know, because it was always like something left
on the vine, depleted, whatever.
It wasn't really good.
But Leightonville had in fact, that ties back to the underwear guy in the shack.
There was a real common type in Leightonville.
And this I kind of sometimes I think of this with the Mendo Perp story.
It's kind of my own take or whatever.
But there was a green and a purple and they were both really pretty.
You could tell the purple was supposed to be there instead of something that was, you
know, a reflection of something not good.
Was that the string that people called the purple from Leightonville?
Maybe.
Maybe.
That's the second time I've heard the Leightonville purple, like a specific Leightonville purple
mentioned in relation to like one of the early purple.
Yeah.
A bunch of families that I met back then had the similar stuff.
And it'd be like they'd have either this bright green, it was never real dense.
It was just nice.
And then there was like a purple side that was really pretty.
That would be in there too.
And so it often had a real sweet, like fruity type of smell to it also.
Interesting.
And there's an aspect too that people should know that what Rings is talking about when
like overdone shit is freaking, people would do first and second and third cuts.
And so a lot of times there would be purple weed that would be like all the smalls that
everybody left to ripen and they'd stick out in the cold and they'd turn dark.
And it was like all the under light, under fed stuff that would happen.
And then they would cut that and put it into pounds.
So there was stuff.
It was the same price as the tops back then.
You know, it just sucked.
But it was still, yeah, people would really milk their shit.
didn't see not too many people cleaned up their plants to try to make their tops the
best.
You know, they would just pick those tops, let those other things go until they did something.
And some strains really actually did okay with it.
And some of them would just shit out as soon as you picked on them, they would, everything
else would be shitty, but they would still pick it and sell it.
There was this aspect where people thought, oh, we can leave this stuff on and let it
ripen because it's under done, never got enough light.
We'll just leave it out and it's not going to rot because it's too small.
And then that stuff would ripen and turn colors because it would get pretty cold at night,
you know, and then they would go out and harvest it.
And so it was often like late batch under under undergrown, you know, like remnants
for the most part.
Yeah.
Yeah, no, it's fun.
I mean, being a hobbyist and moving out here and just seeing all that shit, it was just
my mind.
I was just the happiest boy in my 20s running around these hills looking at as much shit
as I could.
I thought it was great.
I can only imagine.
Yeah, man.
And being that age and like, obviously, I missed my era, because that would have been
something I would have loved to have lived through.
So it's pretty cool to be able to pick your brain and be able to sit here and ask you
questions about it and kind of live by a proxy through an era that I missed.
Yeah, I mean, we're all born when we're born.
We all get our turn.
I know you still got to see cooler punk rock shit than I did, too.
Motherfucker.
Yeah.
And you know, I mean, growing up in the town that I did, there was it was almost unthinkable
that it could have happened.
It was just my older brother and their friends.
I don't know how they stumbled on.
That's how I got sucked into it was who became my older brother-in-law.
He gave me into punk rock scene when I was a little kid.
So yeah, makes sense.
Yeah.
Yeah, that was fun too.
Still was for all those years to moving out here and being able to run down to the city
down to San Francisco.
And sometimes I'd see bands I knew from the Midwest play in San Francisco.
That was always fun to just little reunions in a straight line.
Is there anything else you wanted to cover, Nato?
One of the things that we could cover that kind of ties into what we were talking about
is that both Rings and I arrived in Mendo when it was, I mentioned it before, but when
it was kind of poor and weird, right.
And it was very odd place.
And then people think too, like people used to come to Mendo all the time and be like,
oh my God, weed is legal.
And we did this thing where we passed this thing, measure G, which kind of basically
forbade the cops from messing with you too hard if you only had 25 plants and you had
your paperwork.
And so people would come to Mendo every week and be like, weed is legal.
I can do whatever I want.
And you would be like, oh my God, no.
There's very much a cat and mouse game that goes on between you and your neighbors and
where you're at, what part of the county, there was neighborhoods that you could get
away with it fine.
And there was neighborhoods where like retired doctors or lawyers or whoever would just report
anything that they saw.
And if you didn't know like which streets and which areas were kosher and not, you could
come up here and like way get like, like in the wrong spot and get, and get freaked out.
Amazing things was that you could go to the sheriff's department and buy 25 zip ties for
625 bucks.
You could yellow, big yellow zip ties.
I mean, my ex had cancer.
It felt unstoppable.
You're in the sheriff's department getting these zip ties from some old lady and you'd
go and wrap them around your stock and you just felt like, fuck the neighbors, whatever
they can bitch all they want.
If you got these things, the cops, if you have only 25, like you're, you felt pretty
empowered.
So that created probably I would say in, I don't know, I've been here four or five years
or longer than, so it was probably oh two, oh three maybe was when it really started
what we call like the green wave.
So probably like oh two, oh three to maybe like oh nine, there was just an immense wave
of outsiders that came into the county all at once buying up property.
They drove up the cost of properties by enormous amounts.
People really started blowing it up huge.
It changed the culture of the place because anytime you get a bunch of outsiders coming
in too fast, they can't learn from the people that were already there.
And so there was like friction between the people that had been here for a while and
the people that were just sort of like, there was people that were like, I moved here,
I bought this land, it's in the country, which means I'm American and I can like fire guns
and get drunk and drive 70 miles an hour up the thing and I can drain the community spring
and I don't give a fuck, I'm growing weed and fuck my neighbors and suck a dick.
And you'd be like, oh no, no, no, no, that doesn't actually work well.
You know, people will end up in a hole motherfucker.
It's this window.
That was the beginning of clones too.
That was the beginning of like the seeds, the seed, the past was just disappeared into
clones at that time too.
And I remember being really bummed because I knew I could see it happening.
I was like, all this diversity is just going away to Barry White, AFGOO and Blue Dream
clones, like all these people would have grown 25 plants from seed anytime before this, but
now they're just monocropping one clone.
And they would come here and they would want to make a bunch of money.
A lot of them wouldn't even stay here over the winter.
They would come seasonally to make money and bail.
And it changed the culture of the place.
It brought a lot of money and it definitely improved thousands upon thousands of rural
properties that got built up and made nice.
And Ukiah, the main hub, I mean, it polished the turd, if you will.
Oh, I mean, when I first moved, Willits, which is the town north of us in Mendo, half of
it was boarded up.
It had some really hideous buildings.
It was way on the downturn.
And now what's funny, the reason why I brought it up is because we've been talking a bunch
about how we watched all these people flow in.
And now with the collapse of the weed economy and the prices dropping to so crazy and everybody
getting used to growing volume, which rings hates, and growing a bunch of B and C grade
weed and just hoping it was good enough.
Now all these people are flowing back out of the community.
They're going back.
Because everyone that came in for easy money is like, oh, it's not easy.
Off to Oklahoma, bye bye.
Yeah, there was a lot of rich kids, a lot of, you know, because I mean, you had to have
some, it was either like big hustlers from cities all over the country or rich kids because
you had, it still costs a lot of money to get a property and actually set it up and
pay people and stuff like that.
You had to, you know, they had to, you couldn't be broke and come to Mendo and start a scene.
No, they, there's a lot of people up here that didn't want to admit that they got their
parents to buy them properties.
And then they started blowing it up and like going on vacations.
And I used to think a lot of those people, I was like, man, they're just so much better
at what they're doing than I am.
And then I realized that like their parents bought them, like it was just play money to
them while I was trying to like live and survive and breed and do these different things.
And like, there was no backstop.
Like they had the parent that like put the property in their name, that put the down
payment down.
Safety nets would be fucking awesome.
And you didn't realize that none of them really wanted to tell you.
A lot of them right now are going back to work for their mom and dad's corporations
after 15 years.
Yeah, they are.
Mendo.
Yeah.
Blowing it up in Mendo.
And a lot of them too, to be honest, they would come up here for two or three years
and actually grow.
And then they would farm it out to a good friend or friends that weren't doing as well
and still take a huge percentage, but it was their property.
And they would live in Santa Rosa or the Bay or Southern California or whatever.
And they would come up at important times to their property and make sure it worked.
Yeah.
But they weren't really from here.
Yeah.
They just kind of came up and blew it up and made some money and then left and then used
the funnel to like funnel money to themselves so they could live where they wanted.
Yeah, we know lots of those.
Yeah.
And so it's kind of getting back to like broken weird again in a way.
Yeah.
Which is painful to see.
It's not like it's not like you, Kyle, will turn back into a poor town with a big factory
on the edge of town blowing, you know, exhaust over the whole town.
It won't be back there because now it's just it's like the new affordable place for city
people to put their money because all the towns between here and San Francisco are ludicrously
expensive.
You know, like every time a person sells a house in town, there's a person from the Bay
Area willing to just buy it because it's only 600,000.
Whereas anywhere south of here, it's 800 or a million for the same.
And so there's an aspect where if you live in like the valleys where where, yeah, where
we live right now, he's making fun of me because I got this verbal tick.
I got rid of one and then others came in my place.
But there's part where around you, Kyle, around Redwood Valley, around certain valleys, I
think the properties are maintaining value.
But there's a lot of like mountainous properties that when people tried to get them permitted,
they're just not permittable that without hundreds of thousands of dollars of improvements.
Most of them don't even have enough water on them to grow a garden.
I mean, if people came up here and spent $350,000 buying a raw 20 acres that had no
water on it and they set it up and buy water and have it delivered.
And now that the weed isn't bringing money, what is that property worth, really?
You know, exactly.
And so there's a lot of things, too.
And this is another kind of conflict in our area where the regulations want people to
come out of the traditional pot growing areas in the hills and they want them to come down
to the valleys and like get legal on like ag land.
And then there's a bunch of retired doctors and lawyers and wine people that are like,
what do you mean there's a grow down the street?
I don't want to see that.
That's supposed to hide up in the hills.
I bought this retirement property.
It's all supposed to be rolling grapes and orchards and not these degenerates with me.
I don't care.
Do they have a permit?
Sonoma County had a big problem, you know, at first when they were starting to go legal.
And I mean, who owns Sonoma County rich, conservative wine growers?
They were not into it.
And then some of those people were actually investing in weed once it really got legal.
You know, but they hated it before.
And they probably still hate it, but they're going to invest in it now to make some money.
Money is money.
But there's an aspect where you see a lot.
My point to that, I guess, was that I'm curious in two or three years what a lot of these
mountain properties look like because the price of weed has collapsed so much.
And it might cost hundreds of thousands of dollars just to fix your road so that like,
you know, the fire department and whoever else will sign off on you having a one license
grow.
And if it's if the angle of your road is more than 14 degrees, you have to get it paved
or this or this or this.
And so a lot of these places where it used to be traditional and good to hide and grow
mountain weed and it's clean and it's pure up there, it's not suitable for the current
form of legal.
Yeah, unless you get lucky.
Very few of them had enough water.
They barely had enough water to just supply a normal household, you know, let alone a
big garden out on the left, you know.
So they were all trucking it in.
Fuck, people in the last few years were spending trying to grow these 10,000 square foots off
of bought water.
They were spending like 1200 bucks a day or more.
I've heard about that.
People trucking in water and shit.
People trucking in water.
Water trucks running around everywhere.
They're tanking.
I talked to a water truck driver that I knew the other day.
He's like, man, there ain't shit going on.
He's like, I didn't make shit last year from it.
It's just over.
Tons of people bought water trucks.
It was all the rage.
Yeah.
I mean, there was enough profit in it that it made sense to do a lot of things like that,
you know.
And so I used to have this running joke that like you'd find something and it'd be like
a composting toilet, you know, cute little shack, you know, solar power, 20 acres and
it'd be like 700 grand.
Because people would be like, oh, you could put 50 plants on that thing and make tons
of money.
Pay it off in a couple of years.
And so now what is that property going to be worth in a couple of years?
Like the, you know, what, what really is that, is that weird?
It doesn't have a septic.
It doesn't have a this.
It doesn't have a that.
It's just a spot on the hill.
So many of these people that moved here just had no idea how to like maintain a property,
you know, like these properties are just shit.
They're leaving them with just broken down carports and shitty shacks.
They threw up real quick just to dry some plants.
And I mean, just garbage, tons of garbage, you know, on them.
They're crap.
Yeah.
There's a lot.
People leave a lot of garbage.
Then everyone thinks that like Mendo and Humboldt is this beautiful, pristine place.
There's a lot of human garbage.
My friends from Santa Cruz would come up here and go, man, why does everybody like
having garbage out in their front yards up here?
A natural repository for garbage yards too.
Yeah.
And old fashioned is having some sort of blue tarp ripped up and you know, yeah, it's normal
around here.
I mean, there was places that we bought that we went in and like they would take like an
old barn or an abandoned cabin and they would just fill it with their household trash because
they didn't want to have trash service.
And you'd have to put on like essentially a hazmat suit and you'd rent most places we
got a hold of in the late 90s through the mid 2000s.
One of the first things you would do was get however many 40 yard dumpsters you needed.
And you could load 40 yard dumpsters with trash.
Oh, and some people would just make a huge pile and cover it with gas and set it on fire.
There'd be a big black fucking...
Black nasty horrific.
Oh God.
Yeah, people would, you know, it's an interesting spot.
One thing that's...
One million Whippet containers and all that kind of shit.
I mean, in the Whippet containers in the open blast era of butane, it got really bad
up here and people would do stuff where they got scared of throwing away thousands of empty
cans of tain.
So they would like use a backhoe and dig a hole in the woods and just pour all the thing
in there and drive over it and then fill it back in.
That was, I mean, I've seen a lot of them just left on the side of a road, huge piles,
thousands and thousands of butane canisters just left out in the beautiful wilderness
with just a big massive pile of butane cans slinging around.
I mean, so there's an aspect to that where like that whole open blast era, which was
probably eight or 10 years or something like that.
It was a lot of damage.
There's a lot of dumping.
A lot of melted skin on humans too.
Some really bizarre stories of humans melting as the clandestine butane left.
You're laughing, but it's true, dude.
It's true.
I have friends that their skin looks pebbled.
Yeah, I've heard about a few.
It wasn't good.
No.
Anyway.
We're at the end of the two hours.
Oh shit.
We ran all the way through it.
Nice.
Obviously, we're just the kind of dorks that could be able to make it.
This is what we do anyways.
Yeah.
But that's the vibe we wanted to give you.
What is it like to shoot shit?
For the first time I was on something like this, I didn't even realize I was.
I was just bullshitting with you two.
Yeah.
Well, the good part is nobody can see below your waist because he's absolutely fucking
naked.
I saw it earlier.
I saw it earlier.
I saw it earlier.
I saw it earlier.
Let's see.
Anyways, we want to thank you for coming on, brother.
Yeah.
I'm a goat.
We definitely want to thank.
He is one of my good homies.
We chat a lot.
He, you know, all that.
And it's a little bit of a vibe into our world.
We didn't even get to talk about how he lost his sister's innocence or what brought him
to the butt stuff world.
There's a lot of unturned stones that we can get.
I'm glad I didn't have to cry this whole episode.
Indeed.
He only cries after sex.
So, yeah.
So, but anyway, Matt can do the outfield.
Yeah.
So next week, starting next week, I'm fucking done with Instagram.
I'm fucking especially after tonight.
Fuck Instagram.
Like I couldn't add anyone to the shows.
None of that shit.
So it's YouTube from now on out.
Next week, Notso will not be with me.
I may have someone else in his place.
We'll see who to get.
We also have our Patreon.
Go to Breed Your Syndicate Patreon or Google Breed Your Syndicate Patreon and you can find
all of our Patreon stuff there.
We go there, hang out, shoot the shit all the time.
There's lots of extras for everyone there.
We have a $50 slot we just added and there's a monthly gift for each person a part of that.
What else is there?
I'm going to be using Riot Seeds.com for my spray seeds.
We're getting closer to getting Notso, getting to release some stuff.
I hear there might be a collab with CSI coming up soon, which I'm super excited about to
see.
But yes, please remember, go follow Riot Seeds.
Just go to Google, type in Riot Seeds YouTube.
You can find it that way.
Subscribe.
Make sure you click the bell icon.
Move it to all so you get all the notifications because next week, no more fucking Instagram.
And because of that, I'll be able to add in pictures.
I could put together videos with slideshows, all kinds of cool shit to illustrate while
we're talking.
It'll be a much better presentation and all that shit.
So yeah.
Anyways, thanks again, Rings.
It's great to see you, brother.
And we really appreciate you talking to Jerry with us.
Everybody, enjoy your Friday night.
Thank you for listening to us.
Pleasure as always.
Cheers.
Nighty night.
Want more Breeder Syndicate?
Be sure to check out our Patreon by going to Google and searching Breeder Syndicate
Patreon.
We have a secret Discord where we are available at most times and interact daily.
There are a lot of perks to be had there, so check it out.
Need seeds?
Check out RiotSeeds.com where you can get our seeds and our reversal spray for making
your own feminized seeds.
