Welcome to Breeder's Syndicate, where we explore the history of a clandestine scene
through the eyes of the folks who lived it.
I'm Matthew, owner of Riot Seeds.
I'll occasionally be joined by my co-host NotsoDawg, breeder and grower from Mendocino.
Welcome to the underground.
Hello everyone, welcome to Breeder's Syndicate.
I'm Matthew, this is my co-host Notso.
I know he's been out for a few weeks.
He's demanded, missed my friend Notso, and here we are with our friend Direwolf, who
is in shadow.
Today we're going to talk about some of the Canadian scene and some of his IPM techniques.
I know we've been meaning to do a show on IPM and needing to, and it's been heavily
requested and this man has a lot of experience with it.
So welcome, Direwolf.
Thank you.
I'm kind of happy to be on the black screen with all the critique.
Notso gets on his hair because I'm having kind of a bad hair day today.
Yeah, you've seen how they bust his balls over his hair.
It's brutal.
I mean, yeah, you know, facial expressions, random stuff you don't even think of, they
pick up on and all of a sudden it's a meme or something.
So yeah, the verbal tics.
Sure.
Yeah, the verbal tics.
It's hard being a public speaker.
Yeah, it's not easy.
You know, you don't really realize it until you listen to yourself and then you're like,
oh man, wait.
Yeah.
Wait until you're staring at yourself in a long selfie for an hour.
It's really, it's really interesting.
Yeah.
And anyone that anyone that knows me in real life knows that I'm not like a big, I kind
of have like a bit, I'm known for like my death stare.
I'm like, I look, I look friendly when I'm smiling, but I have a death stare a lot of
the time.
So it doesn't translate well over, over phone sometimes too.
Well, we're super glad to have you.
I wanted to start out talking a little bit about your, your early introduction into the
import scene in Candidate.
Let's start there.
What was it like?
What kind of stuff were you seeing and what years are we talking about?
Yeah.
So I guess now that I think of it, I actually, my original start was actually a weird start.
It was actually one of my, when I first started was exposed to, it was actually from a friend,
one of my, just a guy from down the streets, mom who was, we found out later was like a
full on like closet grower.
She was kind of like this hippie lady and we used to, and it was her boyfriend actually
got us like started smoking weed.
And then we'd always just jack her weed out of her bread side table.
And there was a big story that went with it about where it was and it was this exotic
import.
And it turned out afterwards, it was just, she was literally one of the first growers
around our area growing it all in the backyard right in front of us.
And we had no idea.
So, but basically that might, so my first start was with homegrown and then, but there
really wasn't much weed going around back then.
It was really all import.
And I don't remember the years.
I started really, I started smoking when I was like 14.
So it was probably like 86 or something like that.
Yeah.
Like for basically in Canada until like you got a little bit of domestic stuff, but pretty
much from those mid, like mid eighties until it was like early nineties, there wasn't much
domestic at all.
Like, cause we didn't get any like that.
There was not a lot of outdoor and stuff.
It was just the occasional indoor and you couldn't even really sell it.
It was, you basically had to, like, I can totally remember people growing indoor and
pressing it into bricks and selling it because that was the only way you could actually sell
it.
Like you couldn't, people wouldn't buy it.
They just didn't recognize it or?
Pardon me?
Did they not recognize it as cannabis because it looked so different and not compressed or
what was the reason?
Well, it was green was one thing.
And the, no, back then it was just people didn't recognize that it was possible to grow
good wheat.
They thought it was really, it had to be import.
And keep in mind, this is like back in like really, you know, so this would be right around
the time where Neville was like launching the seed bank.
So there probably wasn't a whole lot of like genetics.
And I mean, if you even just put in perspective, if you fast forward four or five years later,
I bought my first grow light and that was the only grow store in our entire province.
So like the equivalent of your state, we literally had to drive like three hours to buy a, buy
a halide light.
There was only, there was literally only one store.
I mean, it really wasn't a thing.
So go ahead.
I just remind, it was wild when, when Matt and I interviewed Karel from Super Sativa
Seed Club, he had a similar story of when they first started growing indoor, they tried
to Brown it out because all this lime green and green color was like a real issue in the
market because everyone was used to like imported Brown.
And they hadn't seen it.
It was like an issue.
Like green was an issue.
Like people didn't realize it is better.
They just saw it as something completely unusual.
If you read that, I read a book by the, one of the guys from the Cornbread Mafia, and
that was pretty much their entire curing technique was trying to figure out how to make it Brown
and crappy looking.
So it looks like import that was literally like everything like threw it on the barn
floor and it was, it was a for sure thing.
And the other thing, the area where I came from, it was very, very hash centric.
So people didn't even really like buying weed.
It was all like, it was all like, mostly that Afghani border hash that was around.
And that was like the staple and everything else other than black Afghani hash was totally
suspect.
So most of it was import from Afghanistan then as opposed to like a Mexican, like we
were getting in the U S it wasn't really making its way up to Canada.
I never actually saw Mexican until Dead Tour in like Ohio or something like that.
And you guys had a wholly different language.
Because I remember like looking at it and going like this, someone was selling it to
me.
I was like, this looks like really crappy.
And he's like, it's mids dude.
And I was like, what are mids?
I don't know.
All we knew was hash and high end hydro in Canada.
But yeah, I know it was, it was all, it was, you'd get some other stuff, but it definitely
wasn't the same type of import you're talking about.
It was pretty much 90% of it was all like that Afghan, you know, like the gold stamps,
a lot of it, the stuff you see, Afghan, it's like border hash.
And then you got occasional batches from Morocco or Lebanese, and then you got some
weed, but it was usually pretty high end.
Like it was like tie stick occasionally.
And we got a lot of like pressed Jamaican.
And I don't think I, I think I've maybe seen Mexican like one time in Canada ever.
I'm sure it was around.
How did you guys used to use the hash?
Like actually smoke it?
Was it the old knife hits or like a jar?
So the area I'm from is that this like tells you exactly, it's one of those things, anywhere
you go in the world, everyone would be like, what?
But in our area, like kind of the equivalent of like, you know, all of New York state,
this was like in the kind of, it was an Ontario thing.
So I grew up around Toronto area and they did what was called bottle tokes, which they
are horrible when I think back, but it's like, you get a cigarette and you put a little piece
of hash on it and then you break a hole in the bottom of like a pop bottle and you like
brew, you brew, brew the hash in there.
And there was this whole technique and then you kind of tip it over when it's done and
it's like a lava lamp and then you suck the hash out.
But it was like a whole, like you were, it was like you got social status in a lot in
my circles anyways, for like being a good BT brewer.
Like it was like an art form, be on a break the bottle.
It was kind of, when you look back, it was like pretty cracky, but that was, and you'll
never hear anyone in Canada have a clue what you're talking about unless they grew up around
Toronto area.
And then everyone knows what you're talking about.
Bottle tokes.
I mean, you want to say, you want to say cracky, you look at some of the equipment now for
dabbing.
I mean, it just looks like straight meth pipes to me, you know, it's just a meth deck.
Yeah I kind of avoid some of those.
Even though I kind of like dabs, I don't dab a whole lot because I just hate the whole
thing and my wife can't walk by a dab brick without accidentally breaking it.
So it's like an expensive hobby.
Yeah I never got into the whole torch thing.
Like that was just too much, too much, too much to screw up, too much to do all of that.
Once they started getting into like emails and shit where you could just leave it and
set it, that was okay.
But it still felt a little cracky, but puff goes and stuff that it was like, okay, this
looks like more like a ball and I can deal with this.
I feel like every two or three years in the hash movement right now, they all kind of
like just move on from whatever they did before that they were convinced was the bee's knees
and it just slowly gets dust binned.
Like we're not going to talk about that era anymore that we did that.
But it's interesting.
One of the things that I'll say about that is that, you know, I grew up in Chicago, right?
And so even though Direwolf and I aren't like too terribly, terribly far from each other,
vastly different weed cultures.
My weed culture was primarily Mexican, green and brown, and there was almost no hash culture.
So it's interesting how like, you know, Canada and the different laws and rules that applied
over there led to vastly different imports that we saw.
I think it's also what crime networks were working there.
Because I think the big thing, if you go from Canada, east to west was totally different.
So basically what was going on in our area was Montreal, which is like there's the port,
that's the big port that comes into Canada from the east coast.
That was kind of controlled by Irish mafia.
And that was basically like, you could bring all kinds of stuff through there.
So everything basically, for the most part, was coming through that port of Montreal.
And what was the interesting thing about it, we found out afterwards.
So we kind of had like, up until like about 90 or something, it was all this black Afghani hash.
And then it kind of went dry for like a couple of years.
And then a guy that I was good for, I was actually living with at the time, he had this connection.
It was like this, this Irish mafia dude from Toronto.
And we were like in university and he had, for whatever reason, nobody could get, and
we found out afterwards what the actual story was, which is crazy one.
Nobody else had hash except for this guy.
So we were like the kings because we're the only guys that could get black hash, which
is what everyone wanted.
And we could get like however much you wanted.
And this dude used to show up to our little like, you know, university student house every
Friday night in like a limo and just bring like slabs of this hash in.
And he was just like, one of those guys that didn't give a crap.
And he'd like walk out with a Ziploc full of cash.
And it was like every Friday in and out.
And what it turned out, I found out afterwards, it was the reason why they had access to this.
It was actually Howard Marks old stash.
So Howard Marks would have been in jail at the time.
But apparently he had, which if you ever read that Howard Marks book, he was hooked up with
Irish food, which kind of all makes sense.
But apparently he got, when he went to jail, he had all these stash houses sitting all
over Montreal still full.
So they just sat on him for a while.
And then it started coming out through those.
And that's why that's where our connect was.
So it's all this kind of few year old Howard Marks hash.
And I might not be true, but I have a feeling it probably was, which probably tells you
a whole lot of that.
And I've heard similar overlapping stories about where all that hash came from in Montreal.
And so it was probably that's why everyone was smoking black Afghani hash.
It was probably because there were like one or two major importers that were controlling
that whole thing.
I remember the Nortel story from Neville talking about Nortel and one of his partners.
And I think one of Mark's partners, that was one of Mark's partners that had the Nortel
thing, right?
Yeah, that was their whole deal, right?
It was a guy that was part of the IRA and he smuggled, they would smuggle hash through
the IRA networks telling them that it was guns.
That was kind of their whole, that was Howard Marks' partner.
Yeah.
Super gangster for back then.
What's interesting about all that too is that there was a lot of hash smugglers that avoided
America because the penalties were so much worse.
And they viewed America sort of like the place where you went to prison for a long time,
where Europe and Canada and other places were viewed as like a lot chiller if you actually
got in trouble.
Yeah.
They increased some of the charges here, if I remember, during 2015.
I remember there were bigger charges for hash or extracts than there were for normal cannabis,
you know, cannabis flower.
At one point, I remember it was getting really bad where at one point I was pulled over on
the way to this, I was like some hash event in LA.
And it was like, I stopped, I was like 4 a.m.
I pulled over to get gas on my way out of San Diego and I didn't have a license at the
time that suspended.
And of course I got pulled over like cops sitting in the gas station waiting for me,
you know, like no one else is there.
They were bored and they messed with me super hard over the hash.
They were like, you know, we can get you for this though, you know, like, so they still
took it seriously here during 2015.
Oh yeah, concentrated cannabis.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Manufacturing and all.
Did you get different grades of, how would you, I mean, I know memory can be tough, but
like did you think the Afghani hash you were getting back then was high quality?
So it was mixed.
So there was, yeah, there was different grades.
I would say that we didn't necessarily know they were different grades.
But basically, so a lot of it, there was basically three grades from what I could tell.
There was, and it was just, there was different batches and probably the loads were mixed
up.
So you couldn't really tell the difference back then unless you're buying the whole kilo,
which when we were like, you know, 15, you weren't getting, you weren't seeing what the
stamp was on it.
So basically it all came in.
If you ever see the packs, it's, it's, they all came in, pretty much all came in this
red cellophane paper wrap.
And some of them would have gold seals, like, which is, you know, probably is gold spray
paint with whatever brand of whatever, just like you see with the Moroccan or you see
with the modern day hash.
And, and we had all, it seems like all the best stuff would always had no stamp.
And from what I understand, I think that probably was the case.
And it was kind of like the good loads, like the stamp stuff was the commercial stuff.
And some came through that was kind of like the dealer hash.
It just got each person's hand.
He went through, you know, that guy would take the good stuff, which was not stamped.
I don't know from that a hundred percent, but there was definitely, I'm sorry.
And then there was kind of the third grade, which kind of, if you talk to some people,
they're like, it was all crap.
And that was what was called repress.
And I don't know what the heck they did to it, but like it was all controlled, I think
by the bikers on the kind of street level and somewhere along the lines, bubble man
actually saw what they did once.
Cause he was telling me, I still don't really understand what it was, but it was some type
of thing where they would just, it was cut with something and it was like a really noticeable,
like the texture was different.
Most of the stuff that we were getting was kind of really high grade or a lot of it was
kind of just like medium, but it was pretty good.
And it's interesting now, it's a weird thing, but legalization in Canada now is now we actually
have a really thriving import hash scene again on the black market.
So there's like websites you can go in Canada that have like the biggest hat import hash
selection you've ever seen.
And they're legit.
Like I've tried a bunch of them and, but it's exactly the same.
People say, Oh, it used to be so much better back then.
It's literally exactly the same as what we used to go.
Yeah.
That's crazy.
So what kind of years did the Afghani plants in the indoor scene start popping off in your
area?
Like when you noticed this started to become a normal happenstance thing to get to go to
someone's house and they had to grow.
We were pretty like on the, like my crowd was, that was, it was going on before that.
So I was in, it was probably like about, it was really early nineties, like probably like
92, 93, maybe 91.
That we were literally like, so I went to kind of like the agricultural and agricultural
university.
And that was like, some of my crowd kind of were the first people, I'm sure other people
had grown, but we were really one of the first people that really started rocking it out.
It was, so it was not common at all.
Like I said, when I went to university, that was the year that I bought like my first grow
light, which was probably like 91 or something.
And yeah, like there wasn't many people doing it.
And it was super, like, we were really some of the only people in town, like everyone,
our crew kind of, everyone was like, knew who we were or heard of us because we were
the guys with the genetics.
And that was pretty much, so it wasn't a whole lot going around going on.
I don't think it was kind of a lot of scenes like that.
Like, I'm sure we weren't the only people in town, but there wasn't very many.
When you say the genetics, what kind of stuff were you first growing for your indoors, your
first indoors?
My first indoor was, well, we, I'm sorry, our very first one, we were actually growing
import because everyone had like saved all their seeds.
So the first real, real grow we did was, I don't even know what it was.
It was literally just like one of my roommates, all the seeds he saved for like 10 years,
we topped and they were all pretty equatorial and Hermi and nothing great.
I think we made it all into brownies.
And then where our kind of big break came is one of my friends was, he had gone on dead
tour to the West Coast and he ended up living on some commune.
I think it was in, I can't remember if it was in Seattle area or Portland area.
I believe it was down in Portland around Oregon.
And he's who came, he came back and kind of taught all of our crowd to grow.
So that's kind of how I learned was from this dude.
And he had just learned from living on this commune, weirdly growing blueberry Indica
is what he, that was before DJ Short was even around and he would always talk about blueberry
Indica back then, but that's not what we were growing.
So we were, so he taught us to grow and he just had some old stuff from like SSC and
a seed bank.
So he had, it was mostly skunk wine, what we were growing.
And I also did, I did a lot of skunk number one.
And I also did a lot of haze just because that happened to be the seeds we had was a
silver pearl or not a silver pearl, silver, silver haze.
Yeah.
Silver pearl by haze.
Yeah.
Is that what it was?
I thought it was something different, but for some reason, but anyway, it was like a
haze seed of some kind.
So I have this like thing where I like try to discover all the names that Sensi changed.
Right.
And sometimes Matt, you know, it's like a hobby or whatever.
And so one of the interesting parts is when, when Sensi bought Neville seed bank, they
wanted to obscure how much of it was just a direct port over from the seed bank itself.
So they ended up changing a bunch of names, right.
But the big clue with silver haze was that they, in Sensi, they claimed in the silver
haze advertisement in the, in the book that it won the 89, it won the overall 89 cannabis
cup.
So you go look at what won the 89 cannabis cup and it's silver pearl by haze from Neville.
They had to put it in there.
I mean, you got to get the cup advertisement.
Yeah.
So that, that was actually like a really helpful piece of information because we actually have
like a, we have photos of the old, of the old magazine spread and it's right there,
you know?
And it's like, I think what it's about is like early pearl by skunk one by NL five by
haze.
Yeah.
And then it got changed.
I thought it was, and then I thought somebody had said it was an Ortega or something.
So I was thinking maybe that, but I, I originally had thought what you're saying.
So you're right too.
There's this weird thing where Neville used to call a maple leaf by, he crossed Afghan
tea to haze as well.
And he called that silver haze, but I don't think he actually ever sold it.
I think he kept it private.
And that's one of the ones that Shanti uses a lot now, if I'm correct, is from seat, from
seat at least.
Yeah.
So he crossed when he, the first two things that he crossed haze, you know, it was Afghan
tea and NL five and NL five obviously got released and became the super popular thing.
But anyway, yeah, yeah.
The the 89 cannabis cup winner, silver pearl by haze.
So that's a good one.
Yeah, it was a weird one to start with.
Like we start when we had no idea, it was just the only genetics we had.
So we were running all this haze and it wasn't super long flowering.
Like they were, they were, I think we, I crossed it.
That was kind of the first kind of messing with genetics that I really did is I crossed
just because that's what we had.
I crossed some of that silver haze with like a skunk number one.
And we kind of had like this seed line and we kept popping for a long time just because
it was the only genetics we had.
And it was, it was weird because it was actually really similar to like that sweet skunk that,
that I grow now.
And that's partly why I grow it.
It's totally like reminds me of like 1993 or whatever, when we were growing these silver
haze crosses.
I can see that being really good though.
Like a skunk one silver pearl haze, like that would be pretty legit.
I would think like it would be fast flowering, probably have good bud structure, good resin
production.
Relatively fast.
It was like 70 days and then we were probably picking it too early back then.
It was probably 70 or 75 days.
I would, I would think it was it yielded, but it wasn't, yeah, it wouldn't have been
like a great cash cropper.
And then the other weird one that you never said, I've never, most of, like I said, most
of the stuff you see back then, I'm like, it's still pretty similar to what stuff, like
there's a lot of stuff now that's pretty similar to it.
The one that I've never seen that was like, it is, we used to have this Durban, which
for sure it was one of my buddies brought it back from Sensi and, and it was, I've never
seen anything like that.
It was really like, it could quite well have had Indica in it, but it didn't look, cause
it kind of, it was like finished really quick and it kind of had a short stature, but it
was like this really weird, like full on sativa, but with really dark leaves.
And, and it totally had that, this crazy, like anise taste.
Like you hear people say with Durban, it wasn't super potent, but it was definitely like pretty
unique and it was one of the better tasting weeds that I've ever had.
I've tried a bunch of Durban since and I've never seen anything remotely like that one.
Yeah.
I don't really see the, the anise Durban at all ever.
And like you hear these tales of this, this beautiful Sensi Durban and you just, it did
for some reason, the, the terpenelein one seems to be the one everybody kept.
That just seems to be what I run into.
Yeah.
This was a hundred percent just like anise.
There's like no doubt about it.
It would, that's what it was.
That's really cool.
It's certainly a shame because we're talking about things realistically speaking that aren't
that, that long ago, but the nature of prohibition kind of means that like was, you know, you
could have something that was common and five or 10 years go by and all of a sudden it's
just disappeared.
Yeah.
You know?
So talk about some of your early crosses, dude.
Like you talked about the skunk one by Silver Haze.
Was there any other ones that you were doing early on that you found success in or weird
stuff in?
We did a bunch.
There was one that we can go into a bit, but honestly, like you are so, I've always been
like, I'm pretty big on like not messing around unless you can pop some decent amounts of
like numbers and you can never really pop that many, that much for numbers.
So the only one, so I did kind of, so I played around early and then for a big part of when
I was growing, I just kind of got out of it because I was so worried about plant count
all the time.
The last thing I wanted to be doing was like popping males and stuff like that.
But the one, so the one I think I told you guys about where I was joking that maybe it
was the Purple Urkel precursor.
That was the only one that I ever did that was kind of got pretty famous.
And it was at the time there was no, there was really no Purpleweed and I had gone to
Amsterdam and brought back, we went to Positronics and I brought back a bunch of stuff.
And one of them was a strain called Purple Star.
Purple Star, yeah.
Yeah.
Well, they don't, I don't think it's even, I don't know if that's even a thing in Holland,
but they used to be, they have all these different purple strains that were for outdoors.
Yes.
That were, Desh Passion had and Posi had and probably a couple others.
And anyways, I brought that back and it was like actually a pretty good yielder.
It didn't, it wasn't really very good quality, but it looked decent and it was like a total
novelty.
It was like super purple.
I had crossed that to, we had like a skunk number one crossed with Hindu Kush and I crossed
it to this Purple Star and we actually got some pretty nice ones that were kind of like
way nicer than the Purple Star.
Like they were kind of indoor quality.
And we had that and I gave my old partner at the time, he had moved out west to kind
of like our little Humboldt, which is like the Kootenays, which is like Nelson, BC.
And he had moved out there and he, before he left, he grabbed a whole crap load of those
seeds and I don't know if it was the Hindu Skunk Purple Star or if it was that, I think
it was actually that it was mixed with that crossed with an Aurora Indica, which was a
Northern Light strain that Posi had.
And it was, he popped like quite a lot.
Like he popped like a hundred or two of those and got this one that they called, they just
called it Papaya.
And it was like this really nice purple, it was kind of like checkerboard purple pattern.
And these guys were like big, they were like ballers.
Like, so they were doing, they were in like the export crowd and that clone just totally
blew up.
And for a while, so in BC there's kind of like, everyone always talked whenever most
people that you hear talk, they're always talking about like coastal BC, like Vancouver
area.
And if you go inland, but 10 hours, there's, this is where the Kootenays are.
And that's where our real, like, that's where the real players go.
So for a while, for like a couple of years, there was a, that was like one of the most
popular clones being grown there was this Papaya thing.
And that's why I was joking.
Because when, when Notso was saying they used to call Urkel the Barney and that's what the
buyers used to call this stuff was the Barney, but it was probably.
How many years was that?
That would have been like, I think it was probably like late, like late nineties, like
somewhere between like 98 and 2000 probably.
Because the interesting part about the, you know, a lot of the purple cuts that became
famous in Northern California and kind of in our scene is that there's a lot of like
people that claim things to, you know, about them, but there's very little like verifiable
fact, right.
Which is unusual for a strain strains that got that famous to stay that obscure for that
long.
And there's a lot of competing things.
And there's, there's actually a guy in Mendo, I won't mention his name, but there was a,
there was kind of a kooky guy in Mendo who claims that he went up to BC and ended up
a smuggling clones back taped to his thigh in cigar, in cigar cases, like in cigar, you
know, like, like the tubes, the tubes and he taped him to his thigh.
This is pre when pre before Osama ruined flying.
Yeah.
You know, when, you know, when airport security got a lot rougher after 2001, but pre to that,
it was a lot looser.
And he, he swears to God that he brought these clones from from BC down to Mendo.
Just to be super clear, I'm not making any claims to purple oracle.
I'm just joking.
No, I get it.
No, believe me.
Well, that's the thing, right?
Is that there are people that will tell you with absolute certainty that this is what
it is.
Yeah.
And then you start poking around in it and it'd be and there's holes and this and that.
It's one of the few things that that with purple oracle, with grape ape, with lavender
and things like that, there really isn't a settled story that everyone believes.
There's some competing stories and there's ones that like we're pretty sure aren't true.
But you know, for for as famous as it was and as big of an issue as it was in California
for a while.
Most of those most of not all but most of those purple cuts, the origins are still kind
of a mystery.
It was it's cool that you mentioned Purple Star.
Purple Star is actually one of the baselines of purples for purple.
Number one for Shaman, for a lot of the Dutch purples all came from that.
Is it related to Viking?
I think I think they all probably came from Viking because I think Viking kind of predates
those and they were all pretty.
I think they were definitely related because we got that cream sodica you hear about.
Yeah, it was totally out of that same family.
They just you look at me like that's one of those old crappy purple Dutch outdoor screens.
Positronics about a year and a half ago, they they went to their their library, mom seeds,
their parent seeds and whatnot.
And they were kind enough to take me out the parentage of Purple Star, whatever they used
to make it.
And they sent me the seeds, but they disappeared on the way here.
I was so bummed because I was like, I finally get to look at the parents of Purple Star.
Like most people wouldn't be that stoked about it because it's kind of goofy.
It would be.
It's interesting to me.
It would be really funny, honestly, if if there's an element of that story is true,
because, you know, coming being in California when this is fast forwarding a bit so we can
go back after.
But one of the things that really made the purple craze in like oh, oh, three or four
or five really take off was that California was getting flooded by, you know, beat by
Canadian indoor.
And once brokers learned that the Canadian indoor was so much cheaper than California
homegrown, they started buying it and trying to pass it off as California homegrown and
making massive margins.
And a lot of it was pretty midsy.
You know, it was just it wasn't flushed.
Right.
It wasn't with too high E.C.
It was their best down here.
Yeah.
Well, and it was it was also it was sealed in a in a vacuum sealer, you know, so it kind
of fermented a little bit like in transport.
Not that there wasn't some good stuff coming down, but a lot of it was bad.
And one of the things in California, especially in the bay that started the purple craze,
was that the purple wasn't Canadian.
Like it was homegrown, you know, and you knew it was from California.
People were getting bumped by buying weed for forty four hundred that was Canadian,
that these guys were buying for two grand.
Yeah.
And making the difference, you know.
So it was like that was one of the things that started the purple craze in NorCal was
there wasn't any B.C. coming down that was purple at the time.
And so it was like it was marketing.
Yeah, it was early marketing, honestly.
The 215 had opened up in California enough that once it got into the clubs and once,
you know, popularity spiked, then it just was rolling and it was it was a marketable
thing.
I think the the Beasters guys got a little bit of a bad rap just for, you know, that
all the good stuff that went down just got called and passed humble.
Nobody questioned.
I'm sure all the and all the crap stuff just got all these beers.
And I think they did sell.
They definitely did.
I'm not disputing there is a lot of Beasters got shipped down.
I think we actually probably kept the worst Beasters up here, because if you go the kind
of back story of like the commercial market here was always this cut called M39, which
is like, yeah, I can't imagine anybody ever exported that.
But maybe they did.
And it was like this.
It was probably this M39 from SSC, which I think was a skunk.
And it was just this rock hard orange like like they probably literally cut them at 39
days or something.
And I mean, it was still to this day, the worst weed I've ever smoked.
Every time, you know, you know what's so funny about that is that these days people, most
people who smoke weren't around back then.
And so there are a bunch of people that are you know, there are some people out there
that are touting that they have M39.
I've seen that.
I've seen that.
Resnod's one who's bringing back the M39.
And you know, there's an aspect of it because most people, all they remember is the name.
Yeah.
You know, all they remember is the name.
One thing I wanted to ask you before I forgot is that when you were on, you know, before
I before you and I had even chatted, you had posted this picture on your I.G. of this old
Northern Lights clone.
Yeah, that was the first one I ever posted on I.G.
Yeah.
And I was wondering, and that to me, I would just want, you know, if you could expound
on that cutting a little bit, because I remember it where you were like, oh, you know, this
is from the late 80s.
It descends from the seed bank era.
We lost it, but it was a staple for, you know, 20 plus years.
Yeah, that was the closest thing in my career that was I would consider like a long like
our crew is I guess it was pretty rough.
So people didn't really keep cuts around and they were all chasing most of my I was never
into the commercial scene, but a lot of my friends were like big, like they were heavily
into the commercial scene.
So they were chasing just no different than today.
Everyone's chasing whatever the newest gelato crosses or something.
They were chasing whatever was hype.
So they never kept anything.
And this and that specific NL clone was around our crew for a long time.
It originally came from that same guy I was talking about before the papaya clone came.
I mean, it's kind of like my original partner when we were younger, like we got started
together, we're still good friends today.
And he was always like in the thick of things.
So that was he was kind of one of my kind of main connections because he hung out with
some people I had zero interest in hanging out with, but they always had good genetics
and stuff.
And he had brought it back out from Nelson and they had gotten it there from one of my
friends' dads who lives just outside of Vancouver and was called Squamish.
And yeah, that one we could definitely trace back because it was literally like I know
the guy came from and it was like his dad and it was from whatever, like I don't remember
87 or something like that.
It was right around like that time period.
And that one was totally it looked just like a lot of the NLs that we've grown, but it
totally had a completely different turf profile and was way, way frostier.
Like that was the first plant I'd ever seen that had like if you grew it right, that picture
doesn't probably do it justice.
If you grew it right.
It was one of those ones that had kind of like remember on the White Widows where the
resin went like right to the end of like the sugar leaf, like or even part on the fan.
It did that.
And it was just crazy turps.
Like I remember the one guy, one of my friends that used to move a lot of it and you like
it would just he used to keep it in his freezer and you'd crack the freezer and just like
his whole house would smell.
And it was a really unique turf profile that I honestly can't even put a finger on.
I kind of wonder whether it's maybe when Neville talks about those juniper flavors,
it was maybe that, but it was like it was a weird, like kind of out of spacey type of
flavor that I've never really had since.
But that one was definitely like around our crowd for a long time.
Because I remember like not keeping it and then being, man, I really want that or someone
to be asking for it.
And I'd go find it.
And I could always like a friend of a friend's brother had that.
We just called it the NL clone.
And it made ridiculous hash and it made ridiculous amounts of hash because it was kind of pretty
leafy.
So you got a lot of trim.
But I remember just pulling like, I can't remember what the ratio was, but just giant
hunks of hash off that all the time.
I was trying to pull a picture of it for so everybody could see it.
I'm always interested in that kind of stuff because we have so few pictures that survive
of a lot of those original strains.
And especially like ones that people found in those lines.
And some lines we have a few pictures and other lines, it's kind of a mystery.
And I have it saved just because you know what it reminds me of?
And it's not exact because I know it's a hybrid, but the way that it's super frosty and the
way that the top crowns, it kind of reminded me of Bubba.
Yeah, I find all the NLs remind me of Bubba.
So were the other ones that we had.
There it is.
Right there.
There we go.
Yeah, perfect.
Yeah, that just reminds me and not exactly because Bubba is a hybrid or whatever, but
like it just reminds me of like that, especially when Neville would talk about like a single
cola kind of small, you know, like almost yellowish at times, very resinous, short Afghan.
It really, it really matches up well with his description of what his NL was.
It might even grown slower than Bubba.
It was a really super, it was the squattest plant I've ever grown.
And I think because it was so old, it had really lost a lot of vigor, but it was brutal.
And I remember at the time we had like this really strong plant count.
So this was kind of late when I was growing it.
And I used to grow it as trees into like a vertical scrog set up.
There were six feet, so six feet tall trees into like a scrog.
And it was just took for freaking ever to get it up to size.
And I actually used to, I used to actually spray it with a really low doses of gibberellic
acid just to make the inner, like during the, during the veg time.
Yeah.
That's an old trick for, for squatty ones.
That's cool.
So what kind of turf profile did you say it had?
Honestly, I could, I, it doesn't compare to anything I've tried now.
Like I would say it was no stronger, like it was similar to a lot of the modern stuff,
but I mean, it's not in flavor, but in like strength of turf.
So it probably had, you know, probably at least 3% turps, which was on, but if you compare
it to what was going around back then, like that was, it was totally another level than
most stuff going around back then.
It was a weird, it almost had a little bit of a, it was really hashy, but it really had
kind of like, there was some fruit, like almost like a grapey tone to it.
It was just, it was the one that I, it's kind of like, I would, it was just really hard
to describe.
It was kind of like, Oh gee, there was a lot of stuff, weird stuff going in there.
That's honestly, when I looked back, that's one of the few that I've like, Oh, that would,
that one would still be cool to have.
And it would be novel now that it's something that nobody else, nobody else has.
I don't think it was necessarily better than anything that's around now, but it would hold
its, it would still hold it, hold its weight compared to like modern stuff, which I would
say most of the stuff from that era definitely wouldn't.
Yeah.
I mean, what, what year did it end up kind of fading out and go missing?
It would have been the exact one.
If you look at when Stephen Harper became prime minister of Canada, I was the last guy
holding it and I got rid of it when he came in because he put all these crazy mandatory
minimums and I couldn't hold my cuttings.
I'm thinking it was probably like 2003 or something like that.
2004.
That's a shame it's gone.
That is a shame.
Yeah.
They had it literally down to, I think you're going to go to jail for five years for five
plants or something.
Mandatory minimum.
So I, that was the time when I was like, okay, like breeding and keeping lots of mothers
kind of went out the window under, under that dude.
And since we're, since we're on that, that sort of era subject, I have another, uh, Iggy
post you made that I wanted to chat about, which was, um, I went out to the cannabis
cups in the late nineties a few times.
Um, and one of the things I brought back, which I wish I still had seeds of was the
first year that they released Neville's Hayes.
Um, and I think it's actually one of the first things you and I chatted about, uh, was you
posted these pictures of some old Neville's Hayes grows.
And I think you got that, you got that Neville's Hayes right around that same era, right?
The late nineties.
Uh, it was, I think it was 2000.
So it wasn't right when they, it was the first round of seeds that I got, but it had
been around for a little bit.
Um, but I, I remember exactly when it was because it was a, I'm pretty sure it was right
around, it was like 99 or 2000.
I think it got released in 98.
So that's basically like the very first era of it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It was when I first decided I kind of got out of like the, whatever, I was just branched
out and was like, you know what, I'm just going to try growing some different stuff
and I don't really care whatever, if it looks nice and stuff.
So I just started playing around with a lot of different plants and, and that was one.
So I started doing some Hayes's and that was, uh, one of the ones I think actually how we
started talking was actually Ortega because I grew out a lot of that too.
Maple leaf Indica, um, as well.
But um, yeah, that Neville's Hayes was always a learning lesson, but that was pretty, uh,
I grew out, I think I had three packs of that and I grew them, uh, grew them all out.
I actually got some, mostly it was pretty jungley weed, but I mean, it was crazy strong,
like just like the extracts on that stuff were just scary.
And yeah, that's the picture right there.
Um, but I actually, one of the cooler plants I've ever grown came out of that pack.
It was one that looked full on like really Hayes structure and the buds were little,
they were dead on like NL five miniature little pine cone buds, but they were literally
like half a centimeter long, kind of like little sativa buds, but they were rock hard
little Indica things.
And they were literally like, look like little candies or something.
It was still one of the most bizarre hybrid expressions I've ever seen.
It tasted like had that kind of incense, the taste, it definitely leaned more towards NL
five, but it was a cool, uh, cool plant.
One of the things, one of the things I liked about your description of it was, I think
you nicknamed one of those cuts party slayer because the high made so many people uncomfortable.
It would like kill the vibe when you brought it.
Yeah.
So we had at the time there was one of my friends was had the, he lived just kind of
an hour or so North of Toronto and in this kind of pretty small town.
It was like, I know it's tiny, it was like 30,000 and he used to sell most of the weed
to like the 20 something year olds crowd there.
And we had a batch of, we just ended up having two.
We were just growing it for like hobby stuff and we ended up having too much every once
in a while.
So, so some of those Neville's Hayes would end up going into like the commercial market
with no, there was no names back then.
Right.
So we'd just sell this crappy looking weed and my buddy would, would sell it in and everyone,
I think, I think we were having, all right, which is, I don't remember the story, but
it was, it looked like crap and everyone was like thinking it was swag and uh, yeah, they
would all puff that stuff.
And that was no, we had a bad batch that didn't burn well.
So they were all like really huffing on it, trying to get the thing to burn properly.
And then they, and no idea.
And you know, it's got like a 20 minute creep on it.
So they would all be trying to, you know, puffing furiously on this doobie to try and
get it to burn properly.
And uh, I think the nutrients just got mixed up because the, you know, we weren't used
to growing like 16 weeks of tevas and stuff.
And uh, and then everyone would get like super, super high and uh, and then the whole
party would end.
And that was, it became like legend for like a year or so.
There was all this Neville's Hayes getting dumped into the, so it was like, they were
literally that dude used to sell like M39, which you could basically not get high off
of a little bit of that NL.
And then this, the no burn, the no burn, uh, the party of the slayer weed.
Yeah.
You were telling me a story too, I think about like your friends that weren't in construction
and they got too high to even come off the roof.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
So I used to have this one friend who's was one of the heaviest smokers you'll ever meet.
And he always used to like, uh, you know, you got like super killer weed and most people
back where it'd be like, Holy cow, like that was so good.
And you could never phase Don.
Like Don was just, you could give him like the, you know, that bubble, bubble hash from
that crazy Northern lights clone.
I gave him once thinking this was going to blow him away.
And you just like did this massive like dab of it.
And it was just like, eh, it's okay.
Like nothing would phase this dude.
And uh, him and one of his buddies had a roofing company and they hadn't seen him for like
a year or so.
I'd moved away from town and uh, I needed a new roof on my house.
So, and I had this one of like a really steep roof that was a little treacherous to be walking
around.
And before they went on to redo the roof, he's like, you got any weeds?
So I had this, uh, Neville's Hayes was Neville's Hayes mixed with Neville's Hayes hash.
And it was like really strong.
This joint, I probably did it purposely really strong just to try and phase Don.
And uh, they smoked it.
It wasn't even that big of a joint.
They smoked this thing.
And I just thought nothing of it because nothing ever phased this dude.
And then I was like, where are those dudes?
Like they've been up there for so long.
So I yelled up and they like stuck their head over the roof and they're like, yeah, we just
got to sit it out up here for a while.
And they were up there for hours is tripping on this Neville's Hayes hatch.
I mean, I, I literally, I have this clear memory of smoking what I would classify as
a pinner of Neville's Hayes.
Uh, when I first tried it with two other people, so I probably only got three or four good
hits off it before it was gone.
And I have this clear memory in Amsterdam of like walking out of dude's house and like
gripping the railing for the six steps down to the road, like gripping it with my life
because I didn't want to fall, you know?
And like it mess with my equilibrium and like I was soaring high and it hit me in such an
unusual way.
I could absolutely see like being like, I am not fucking with that ladder at all.
Yeah.
Like there is no ladder in my future for a while.
I'm just, I was sitting here where I'm at.
I'm going to sit where I'm at and I'm going to wait until the ladder makes sense because
I have this memory of like, like being like, I can't go down these steps without this railing
without assistance.
Yeah.
Like I needed, and I was like, you know, I don't know, 23 or something like that.
And it was totally nice weather.
They were dry steps.
And I was like, I wanted to make sure that I had a center when I walked down them.
Yeah.
So it was definitely like the extractive.
So haze is like, I always find haze like you can smoke, if you smoke regularly, like you
smoke, I find most people, you just get hit every once in a while.
You can smoke haze and it's like, just because I don't think it's super strong.
It is, but it's when you just smoke a little bit too much, which is a lot easier when you're
smoking like a hash joint or something and it just, you know, creeps up on you and all
of a sudden you're taking the, you know, the night bus downtown.
But I have all the time, I have people that smoke all the time that I'll give like that
sweet skunk too.
And it doesn't look that great.
And they're used to smoking cookies.
And a lot of them have just never even smoked like proper haze.
And you always hear kind of similar stories where somebody just smokes every day.
It was like, what the heck was that?
Cause they just got caught sideways.
Maybe science will eventually tell you, but if you, you can be like very used to smoking
a lot of like what we would consider high end strains these days, like chems and Bubba's
and, you know, and, and OGs and different things.
And there's an aspect to hazes where they just kind of hit you a bit sometimes like
you're a newbie and you don't have a tolerance.
Yeah, no, for sure.
It's nothing that I, I generally, I maybe smoke a bit more now, but I remember back
then I definitely couldn't smoke hazes every day.
Like I remember thinking I was like this, you know, weed snob and I'm like, Oh, I only
like hazes is the best.
But if you looked at my jars, the nevels haze sat there for a long period of time and the
northern lights like went down real quick.
So it was always more, it was more like a mild psychedelic for me, like smoking a nevel
seed and hash.
It could get in the way of your day.
Yeah, for sure.
You know, you could, you know, most weed I can smoke and it enhances my day, but you
know, there's some weed and hazes, one of them that can alter your day and send you
on a completely different path than you were on before.
It's crazy when you get not so or Tom Hill talking haze, you could get them doing this
for hours at a time, waxing poetic endlessly about haze.
I mean, the life change, I'll say this, right?
So that at that point I had been going to Amsterdam for four or five years at that point,
generally at least once or twice a year.
And most of the stuff that I got was not that great.
I went through a lot of stuff and I tossed a lot of stuff.
Some of the hybrids I made with some of the American stuff I had ended up much better.
And I kind of had this opinion that, you know, what we had was clearly superior.
And then, you know, those hazes, some of those haze hybrids that they have over there, that
was the first thing where all of a sudden I was like, maybe these old timers tales of
like soaring psychedelic Columbian that you get tracers in your vision and you're giggly
and you have a hard time walking, which I kind of thought was bullshit up till that
point.
All of a sudden I was like, oh, it's real.
It might be rare, you know, but it's real.
I've literally chased that high ever since I've had it.
You know, the first time experiencing that.
I think that's common with a lot of people, you know, and so psychedelic experience and
that will some for some people too.
It makes them want to crawl out of their skin.
Yeah, yeah.
Like it's not it's it's almost like a disassociative, very uncomfortable, like not used to it type
of type of high.
So it's interesting in that regard.
My experience started out with the roller coaster paranoia.
And by the end of the high is when the visual elements were started turning into a clear
headed where you can see tracers with that.
That is just a whole nother experience.
So that's just why that's that's why it sticks with me, because like like like Dyer Wolfe
was saying, like he's got an unflappable body that like would almost never give praise.
And then the guy smokes a joint and doesn't want to use a ladder for hours.
I could honestly say he's never given praise ever except for the Neville's days.
That's the only time I've ever seen that.
That's funny.
Yeah.
So that I always like that story, you know, because he was like, oh, no, no, no, no ladder.
I'm just going to sit right here while I'm safe.
So one thing that didn't make it over into the US a lot that I did, I personally am always
interested about whenever I have anyone, any of my Canadian friends I like talking about
a little bit or the hash plants that made their way through Canada, like the Rene, the
champagne.
There were some other biker ones, if I remember correctly, that were popular.
Do you have much experience with those?
Not a ton.
So actually, I actually just, by coincidence, just picked up the Rene cut off a friend of
mine last week, but I've never actually tried it.
I've heard pretty mixed reviews on that, but it's got to be one of the I was just talking
to my friend about that when I got it.
I was like, it's been around since at least like ninety three or something like that.
So people like not a lot of stuff that gets held around that long.
But there's definitely a lot of people like my friend is like, I think is that good.
I could say he didn't think it was that good.
I don't know.
I never tried it.
The other ones were kind of.
So that was basically from what I can tell.
Yeah.
So he's got a big group of bikers and those were kind of their elite biker cuts.
Like for sure.
So the story is, again, all this gets highly.
This is Reiferman enters the picture.
So stuff gets a little.
It's hard to it's hard to separate facts from fiction because you're very adept at mixing
the type.
That's what I always dislike about people like Reiferman is he actually has a ton of
great information.
Oh, sure.
Mix it mixes it with a ton of bullshit.
So you never know what's real.
So anyways, the story that he has, which seems to kind of play out is there is kind of like
a group of bikers out on Vancouver Island that were doing a lot of runs back then from
seed.
And the story is that it was import.
It was seed from import, which I find hard to envision.
But I guess maybe I've heard a bunch of different stories, but definitely I think they all for
sure came out of like kind of either Vancouver Island or north of Vancouver or somewhere
on coastal BC.
And I think almost all of those came from the same group.
There was like champagne.
That's when the ancestors of like Pink Kush, which was like King Queen.
There's one called Jiffy Pot, maybe even that God.
But I think they all came out of the same group.
And yeah, like champagne.
I only saw it in I've never grown it.
I've had it in flower form a couple of times and it was really early.
Like I remember like it was like 93 or something like that when I went through and it was there
was nothing else like it.
Like it was super high end.
Yeah. For the time.
I don't think it's anything like super special.
It's just like a really nice hash plant.
But a lot of the Canadian ones are kind of based around those that kind of group.
Like if you look at like the special K, Pink Kush, King's Cross, it used to be.
There is a bunch of them that all they're kind of similar and it's kind of got a little
bit obscured because what Reeferman did is he took that King cut, which was one of the
legit OG, like original ones.
Yeah. And he crossed it with a whole bunch of different stuff.
So he crossed it with like a lot of like modern US stuff.
Don't hold me to this, but I think it was like MK All Star, which is like an OG G13
cross. He crossed it with, I think, San Fernando Valley OG seed line and a few other
things. And if you look at it now, it's like, I don't know, is it real?
So what goes around is so pink Kush.
Everyone is like, oh, that's the old King cut.
But I don't think it's actually necessarily the old King cut.
It's like it's crosses with the old King cut to modern Kush varieties.
And if I had to lay bets, it's probably leans heavily or towards like modern Kush
varieties than the King.
But I don't know. I've never grown the original one, but they were definitely the
seeds, the King seeds.
And I think when I was going to do a collab with Wyeast and Compound before I knew much
about Compound, he ended up with them.
So somewhere there are King seeds still in existence.
Don't know if they're a cross, though.
The white buffalo guys still definitely hold it like I've tried to feel out of it.
They definitely have a lot of those old cuts still.
They definitely have the King.
But I know they've said they've told me or said to my buddy that they're like the pink
Kush that goes around now doesn't look anything like the King that they hold.
And he's been partners with Reeferman, so I'm sure he has the original King.
Oh, yeah, I'm sure.
Yeah, he did a lot of that early work for Reeferman, Butterscotch Hawaiian, which I
ended up liking a lot.
I know Reeferman always talked it down, but I loved it.
You ever get to try that one over there?
I generally I did not.
I generally avoided anything to do with Reeferman.
I'm sure he had good stuff.
He's just one of those people that just I just I just his his aura just passes through
and the thing he touches for me and I just don't want anything to do with it.
I can appreciate that for sure.
There's a lot of lines like that that I didn't touch because of just the juju associated
with it. You know, you never know.
Some people have bad juju that just flows through everything they touch.
I mean, you know, it's an issue in cannabis because a lot of the people that end up doing
a lot of work, you start digging into them and you're like, oh, man, like we really
attract our community, attracts a lot of quirky and some of that quirky is just quirky
and some of that quirky is like you're like, oh, man, yeah, that's not that cool,
depending on your perspective.
But it's, you know, one of the things Direwolf that like I don't know if you talked
about this on the thing you just did, but Matt and I, we sort of had this this gig where
we were doing like sort of like the histories of the seed banks and stuff.
And we were going to do some stuff on Canada and we ended up just not doing it because
we both realized that neither one of us had enough of a base of actual information in
history to like do it any justice.
You know, the characters involved, all that.
I mean, Canada is definitely sort of what I consider to be like the third wave of seed
banks, you know, not not just in terms of like seed brokers, but, you know, just whole
groups of people all of a sudden coming up with, you know, seed banks themselves and
blends of their own stuff and blends of European stuff.
And there was a lot of that around for a while.
It almost almost dominated.
Yeah, it's a lot of it for a while.
It did dominate for a while, for sure.
You know, Federation, you know, Reeferman, was it Joey?
You know, the islands.
There was a lot there was a lot of people up there.
The one thing I would say about that that I think gets a little bit skewed and not it's
not necessarily a bad way, but although I would say.
All pretty much entirely the history of kind of what was coming out of cannabis comes from
a handful of people, it comes from Chimera Breeder, Steve Red from Legends.
And Reeferman.
And maybe I'm maybe mixing a couple, but I mean, keep in mind those guys minus the
Reeferman like Red, Chimera Breeder, Steve, they're all from like the same crew.
So what they're talking about when they talk about all this stuff, I'm like, that
wasn't what they you know, you listen to them and you're like, everyone was growing,
you know, sweet tooth and whatever they were doing.
Legends, Ultimate Indica.
And I'm like in my crowd and I said some of my friends were pretty big rollers.
They weren't the only people that I was the only one that knew anything about that.
And I learned about it from the internet, not from what was going on in Canada.
And I think that gets a little bit skewed where I think they definitely were like a
representative of what was going on.
But that was definitely, it was definitely far more diverse than it sounds coming from
those guys.
And I'm not saying they're being self-serving at anything.
I don't think they are.
I just think they're just telling their story.
And it was a small segment of what was going on.
And the other big thing there, like I said, is that divide where they're all talking
about what kind of was going on in lower mainland BC, which is like the Vancouver area
or also Vancouver Island, where that other kind of camp, which there was definitely a
lot of growing there.
That's where the most of the population is.
But that Kootenai Nelson area is always been like the real bread and butter of like
the wood. That's our Humboldt.
And and what was going on there still to this day, whatever's going like you go like
on the coast, it's all like everyone's growing pink cush.
Pink cush has been dominating that scene for like a decade.
And then you go to the Kootenai's, nobody grows pink cush.
They're all growing whatever, something totally different.
Like it's a total. And that Breeder Steve Camara crowd was really like a coast of
Vancouver kind of based group.
And then so there was other groups that were totally different.
They were based out of the Kootenai's.
But if you go back to this, you're talking about all those, most of those, I think
pretty much all those Canadian seed companies.
They were all from Mark Emery.
Like, yeah, they were all getting offered through him.
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. And I think there's definitely like I think that Federation next generation,
that Federation turned into next generation and that next generation guy is still around.
I've never met him, but I think that guy gets underrepresented.
I'm like, he's still like he was one of the most of those Romulan genetics.
I would argue all of the Romulan genetics going around in the US probably came from
next generation and Federation seeds.
I think so.
But a lot of those ones that went through Emery were kind of just like not I mean,
that's how those guys got started.
It was like it was just knockoffs of knockoffs.
Like, I think they basically started as they were working with Breeder Steve and
ended with a bunch of Breeder Steve genetics.
So they started I don't know what story was, but that's definitely Federation had a
lot. It was a lot of like grapefruit and sweets gunk and the stuff that Steve was
working with. It definitely.
But I think they did some real work and they brought some other stuff like they were
doing UBC chemo, which is kind of a unique one.
And there are some other ones like Berlin and some like kind of more BC centric ones.
I'm trying to think who the other ones, Jordan of the Island is still around.
I've never heard of BC.
Do you remember a company called BC grown?
I do not.
It was like I remember that one.
It was early to mid 2000s.
It was a dude named Jordan who ran it.
And I've always tried to figure out if that was Jordan from the same person.
Yeah, because it was it was a lot of the same stuff, a lot of the God and stuff like
that, because I just you know, I I come from an era where like, you know, basically
like all those waves, you know, I can't tell you how many times I read Neville's
catalogs or sensei's catalogs or the Dutch catalogs or all the stuff in cannabis
culture, you know, all the various stuff that Mark Emery would sell from the various
seed companies and their descriptions, because there wasn't obviously like there
wasn't there wasn't Internet, you know, so much and there wasn't like a vibrant
clone trading community and it was all very tight in your circles.
And so if you wanted stuff outside your circle, you would peruse the seed lists.
And see what sounded cool.
You know, for sure.
And the one thing I will say that, in my opinion, came out of that scene, I couldn't
prove it, but I would lay bets that it did was the auto.
I honestly think the auto flowers all came out of Canadian genetics.
So if you look at the sequence of events, this is one that maybe a little bit biased
to because I was kind of close to a lot of parts of it.
But there was originally there was that much you guys probably heard that mighty
might strain was kind of that and mighty might was it came from one of the Gulf
Islands or just one of the little islands between between just off the coast of BC
was kind of that area had a lot of like draft Dodgers and like kind of drop out.
People would kind of go live on those islands.
And it is actually a guy that I know is dad.
It was group that was growing that.
And who knows if what it actually was, it was supposedly like a Himalayan.
And it's like this really it's like a really big, really Indica, really strong
central cola. And some of the phenos would go off automatically.
And if you trace back in Canada anyways, if you trace back pretty much every time
somebody is like talking about some super early strain, most of them come back to
my email. You can just one of those ones you can just look at and you're like, that's
not mighty might. And I had a friend of mine sent me a picture a couple of years ago.
He's like some acclimated tie strain.
He had been passed down through the generations.
Do I take one look like that's my email?
But my my old partner used to do a lot of so kind of I think where that got popularized
is in Montgomery was selling some seeds of it.
And at the time, my old partner was doing these crazy grows of it.
They had up in northern Ontario.
They were like living up in this cottage and they had.
And so that was back then you could sell outdoor really easily.
And they were doing these crazy outdoors in these swamps.
And and it was all it was kind of like I almost describe it as a land race.
So they were kind of back and forth between that Nelson area and B.C.
So they kind of have like the best outdoor stuff that was going around Nelson.
And they were crossing it all with their own stuff, which was all pretty mighty might.
And it would go off really early.
Like you'd start harvesting in like July and not all of it.
But it was like it was kind of like a land race.
So they would pop like, you know, 1500 or 2000 seeds and grow them out in all these
swamps all over the place.
And and they basically start harvesting like July.
The first ones would come and they'd go all the way into like the first week of October.
It was just like very. That's why I kind of call it like a Canadian land race, because it
was just diverse.
And some of them were really good.
And you can never get away with it then because you sell bags of it.
I'm one of my buddies used to wholesale bags.
And he's like, I can't take any more of the stuff.
He's like, one guy tells me how great it is and the next guy is telling me it doesn't do
anything. And it was because it was all from seed and some of it was the auto flower stuff
that wasn't that strong. But anyway, so at the time, that was when I was writing for
Cannabis Culture, Mark Emery's magazine.
I was writing for the Cannabis Culture magazine and I wrote an article about auto flowers
because at the time I found it frustrating because there was definitely like some like
super good auto flowers, but like decent quality like flower for the time.
Like you could sell it wholesale, no problem.
And so I wrote an article about auto flowers and it focused a lot on Mighty
Might. And at the time there was literally not a single auto flower on the market other
than a few of those Mighty Mites coming out of market and receipts.
Like other than that, I don't think a single thing had been released since Neville
released those first ones like back in the 80s.
But I guess, sorry, Stency still would have had that their crappy whatever it was called
that nobody bought.
Ruderalis.
Yeah, Ruderalis Skunk and Ruderalis Annel.
And I was kind of frustrated because I was like, no, like this is actually has potential
to auto flower stuff. So I wrote that article and it was like within a year
that all of a sudden you started.
That was kind of when I think the low rider came up.
And then and then Europe all started doing auto flowers and then I never bothered with
them. But they yeah, they all it became a big thing.
I honestly think I lay bets if you trace that back, whether it came from Mighty Might
or something else, I would lay bets that came out of Canadian genetics because we were the
only people really doing it much back then.
Maybe I'm wrong, but I'm pretty certain that the timing all made sense.
What didn't make sense to me was if I remember correctly, low rider, the dude, joint
doctor or whoever was the one that was originally saying they bred it.
They said it was from a Mexican, just random Mexican.
It's like, I don't know, you know, like because my Mighty Might, I remember growing
early sativa from Canadian bred seeds and there were a few other ones and they were
definitely they definitely had some good auto flowering traits back then.
And there wasn't a lot being marketed at the time for auto flowering.
One thing that's been pretty consistent in weed is obscuring the origin of where your
stuff came from for a variety of reasons.
For certain, you know, that's that's one of the more disappointing things of weed is
when I've kind of like I travel a lot through Canada, so I kind of like just for work, I've
always traveled a lot and I've got so I just know a lot of different people and I've
always kind of chased genetics a little bit and whatever.
Just when you and when you dig into pretty much everything, you're just like, oh, it's
just like another seed bank strain or it's just renamed M39 or like there's so I can
literally count on like one hand how many like elite things or stuff that have a great
story that when you dig into them aren't are anything actual unusual.
Yeah, that's that's that's typically it, you know, and especially once you get past a
certain point in the years to it gets much worse.
You know, when you're starting to realize that you're buying everything comes from one
Spanish seed company during certain years, you know, that if you're buying Dutch stuff
and it did take a big change and it's gotten much worse over the years.
So, you know, I guess that's why a lot of us are still chasing some of these old ones.
It's not necessarily because we think they're more dank, but the genetic diversity is a
lot better than just gelato times gelato or cookies times cookies times cookies, cookies
or whatever time to get back.
Yeah, for sure. And there was definitely some stuff when I think back that just was
really unique compared to what's around, whether people would actually care that much
these days. I don't know, but it was definitely unique.
Yeah, I think I really don't have a place.
Pardon me? Unique definitely has a place now, I think, at least among some circles that
are left. When I think of what's actually that I've tried, that's unique over the years,
it's always and I'm not like a big sativa, you know, dude, but it's usually sativa
stuff. It's like more equatorial stuff that's kind of distinct.
Like when I think back to like growing up, it was like the Jamaican was kind of the
Jamaican import we'd always get was definitely like pretty unique.
But this kind of stuff like that, it's like I think a lot of the cushions and indica's
are pretty similar. I don't know.
I'm sure somewhere in Afghanistan there's some different stuff, but everything I've
really tried in that realm all seems pretty similar.
So in that regard, I mean, and maybe some of that, too, is just because sativas are
the rarest thing to get worked because indica's are definitely like easier to grow
and they're shorter and they're thicker and they yield more and they're more prone for
ends. So they kind of a lot of sativa is sort of missed like this inbreeding era of the
last 20 plus years, I think, you know, they weren't they weren't as big of a proponent
of all that. Yeah, it's it's pretty noticeable.
I have one of my best friends grows out of, I would argue, probably more sativas than
almost anyone like in North America.
Like he's just a hobby guy, but he's just always like he pops.
I bet he probably pops like a couple of thousand seeds a year of all like land race or
whatever. It's a lot of the ties.
So I try a lot of stuff from him and it's really noticeable.
It's just how like unimproved it is.
Like it's just like a lot of it.
I'm like, oh, that totally has like potential.
But it's just like when you really think of like it's just really unworked and it's just
like doesn't have it's just there's a lot of things missing.
And you're like, well, man, if somebody worked on this for 30 years, which is, you know,
it's at least that what a lot of those coaches have been worked on.
Who knows what crazy stuff they can come out of them.
But I just find it's pretty unworked because I try a lot of stuff from him and not very
much of it is very appealing.
Yeah, cannabis doesn't breed itself naturally towards like getting humans high, the best
as we see, you know, it tends to like try to breed itself towards happiness.
So it makes a lot of sense.
And I think a lot, you know, there's a there's a big land race heirloom collection
community. You'll see it on I.G., you know, like the people offering, you know, strains
directly from Afghanistan and Pakistan.
And that's great. But I don't know that the larger community in general understands what
getting into land races and heirloom lines truly means and the kind of space you need
to to truly pick something wonderful out that many people would enjoy.
You know, it's a much bigger process.
Yeah, that's the thing that a lot of younger people don't get is like I'm like, I've
grown up some land races, but even like if you look back to old stuff.
It used to be around even if it's been to decayed, like if you go back to a lot of the
seed banks, horrible keepers out of packs like, yeah, there were some great stuff that
came out of that. But the consistency these days, like you can buy most of the modern
stuff, you could buy a pack of almost anything and find like something great out of 10
seeds. And I think that was not the case back a long time, you know, in pretty recent
history. Even when I go through that, that sweets clone that I grew out a lot of.
And that was basically like, I'm pretty sure it's just a plain old NLAC.
And if you pop like hybrids of that and you see like a lot of like the old NL5 expressions,
which everyone always talks about how great they are.
I mean, they were horrible. They were super betrayed, susceptible.
It definitely has some nice stuff in there.
But I'm like, I don't remember like the last time I popped like a pack of modern seeds
and got something like rotted out on the stem under normal growing conditions.
But that was pretty common back then.
Yeah. Oh, I definitely think that I talk about it quite a bit, like the difference
between like a low.
Can you hear Francis?
No, he's all frozen.
OK, so we'll probably pause it for a second until he comes back since he's in the middle
of something and then I'll cut it.
There is my connection has been cutting in and out strangely.
I don't know what the deal is. Leave a few seconds before you jump back in so I can edit
it. One, two, three.
So I I've definitely noticed that like a lot of the original strains, you could find real
gems in it, but it did take a lot of hunting and a lot of work.
And I'm not sure that like the modern seed poppers would be comfortable going through
stuff that had so much junk and mitts.
I mean, why would they find the right thing?
You don't have to spend that time or space anymore to find something that that fills
that modern market like that palette.
So it's it's it's a lot to go out of ask someone to go out of their way to do these
massive pops. It costs money, time and space.
And it's harder to sell now.
Like back then, you know, they could sell whatever, whatever you popped out of that
seed pack. Someone was lined up to buy it.
I mean, I wouldn't want to try to move in some of that stuff these days.
Like it's I don't even know what you do to make extracts, I guess.
But brownies and extracts.
So now that we're getting into we talked a little bit about botrytis on buds and some
of the stuff there. One of your specialties is IPM and we really haven't covered a good
IPM topic on the show.
So I wanted to I wanted to go over some basic steps and some of the practices that you
do to to to keep your room clean, to really work on your IPM.
Do you want to talk about some of your basics?
Yeah, so I kind of like I've worked I worked in the commercial greenhouse industry for
like a long time, three years or something, and most a lot of what I've done is an
integrated pest management.
So also, I would say, don't always take lessons from me on how to do stuff, because
because I work in that sometimes I go through stages where sometimes I'm like a super
disease of phone. I'm like, I don't want to take anything in.
And and other times I'm like, whatever, if I get something I want, I don't really care
that much if I get something in because I want to, like, figure out, like, make sure I
know what I'm talking about with getting rid of it.
And the only ones that honestly, out of all the ones that I see, the ones that is just
like really like the number one thing I say is just don't get it like, yeah, right.
Like that's the easiest thing, like thrips and spider mites.
To me, they're pretty easy to get rid of the ones that are just like they're they're
disastrous. It's like is I mean, powder mildew is it's doable, but it's I mean, it's
anyone has had it. It's pretty hard to shake, especially if you've got a bigger
operation. But the worst ones is cannabis, aphid and maroon aphid.
Just because there there's just unless you're going to go with this, they're easy to get
rid of with a synthetic like a systemic.
But if you're like legal and you can't do that or you don't want to do that, they are
essentially impossible to get rid of.
So, I mean, that and that's the one I always find so frustrating because people it's like
they're you know, if it's a big like you can see that you don't even need a handling like
a magnifying glass. You can see them with your naked eye.
And I've seen I've personally seen multiple times where people have literally like
brought in like some stupid clone.
It definitely wasn't worth the hassle and ended up with like, you know, something that
cost them millions and millions of dollars.
And they basically never get rid of them.
But I actually just had a recent one that I've kind of moving.
So I'm kind of shutting down on my like so I'm not finishing up with flowering.
And it's like, OK, well, I'm just holding mothers for like the next, you know, probably a
year or something because I got to sell my house and move and stuff.
So I'm like, I'm going to start catching some clones that people owe me or whatever.
Now's the time I'll add them.
And then I don't really care whatever if somebody I got a year to clean it up.
And so I got I got and everyone has given me a clone recently is going to be like, oh,
that's me. But because I'll tell everyone I've gotten a whole bunch of clones from
different people in the last month or so.
So it might not have been you, but somebody gave me powdery mildew on one of them that
they told me didn't have any.
And I had left them.
I'd gone traveling for two weeks, I thought it was fine and I left it.
And then I went back and I kind of left my wife in charge and I came back and that one
clone had blown up and gone everywhere.
So now I got mildew everywhere.
So that one's fresh in my mind.
And that's the one that I think causes a lot of people a lot of there's a lot of they
don't really understand what's going on there.
And I think they think it's systemic, which is a chance it is.
But I think mostly what happens where you get it and they're like, I just can't shake
it. It's just because once you get spores everywhere in your room, they're basically
impossible to get rid of.
Like they last for years.
Yeah, I've seen I've seen that a bunch of times where people they think they've got
it all under control and then bang, like six months later, PM starts up again.
And I think that's really it might have been that it was in some, you know, one of
their plants just had a bit living on it that they didn't catch.
But I think a lot of times it's just there's spores everywhere.
And sooner or later you kick up a spore and it germinates on your plant and bang,
you've got it. But in that situation, I'd lay bets that what had happened is that
plant that I brought in from my buddy had what's covered in spores and the spores
kind of, you know, they germinate on the plant and then they kind of have a little
taproot that goes down into the plant that's called a historium that basically like
it's kind of like roots for powdery mildew.
And it just like kind of sits there and it spreads like it's mycelium kind of across
the surface. It's growing on the leaf surface.
And then what triggers powdery mildew, like what people notice is when this when it
spores when it's spore relates.
Right. And a lot of times what people think it's like a humidity thing, but usually
when it actually spore relates, it's a stress event.
So it's either that's why you see it in like peak flowering.
All of a sudden it'll go up.
You'll see a whole room go off with mildew.
You didn't think you had.
And in this case, while I was traveling, the you know, in Canada, usually when it
switches from kind of summer to fall, it'll go from like 85 percent relative humidity
on average down to like 35 when the cool when the cool front hits.
And that's what I think happens is a cool front hit while I was traveling and bang,
this thing went off. My wife didn't see it.
And next thing you know, I've got mildew all over the all over the.
All over the garden, but definitely like those ones.
So I guess my biggest thing is I'm usually pretty careful.
Like definitely if I was running a commercial thing, I would be way the heck more
careful than pretty much everybody in what I bring in.
That's pretty much all the time where it comes from.
It's people importing clones.
And I mean, the one that just really gets me, it's it's the it's it's the cannabis
aphid, especially like they're just so easy to see.
And I think especially with the legal stuff, people start bringing in like, you know,
more cuttings at a time than they can look through.
Yeah. Properly.
And it only takes one aphid and then, you know, like one cannabis aphid in three
weeks can take down like a whole garden basically.
Like it really they reproduce that quickly for the for the PM.
What what in Canada?
You know, because I know down here, like our crew tends to use like micronized
sulfur spray, but I don't even know, like in the legal market, if that's something
they can even use up in Canada.
Is that something you guys use there?
Do you have a different routine?
Yeah. So, no, they can use it.
So basically what they're limited to.
And again, I kind of work in I've worked for a long time and also like commercial
vegetables and commercial flowers.
So I kind of know what's dealt with in general.
And what's different with cannabis is in any other crop, it's always controlled by a
combination of systemic fungicides and stuff like sulfur and, you know, potassium
bicarbonate or like bacillus subtilis or stuff like some of the common things.
And what we've got stuck with in Canada, good or bad, I don't really have a comment
whether it's good or bad, but it makes it challenging is there's there's no like
systemic fungicides registered.
So basically, once you take the systemic out, you're just dealing with surface level
controls. So for instance, like, you know, people use like I think Rhapsody's one, like
a bacillus subtilis, which is like a bacterial one that people that's a common one.
I think these on both sides of the border and it works great, but it only controls like
the surface level.
So it's and so it's not controlling that historium that's down in that little root.
It's down into the plant.
So basically you can kill everything on the surface and then the plant will be able to
we can kill everything on the surface and then that little root is going to keep it's
just, you know, a week later, you're going to pop up and slowly spread again and you
won't see it until it's for a late.
So basically what they're stuck with in any of the legal places is just spraying every
week to keep them.
Once you've got mildew in your facility, they just spray every week with usually they
rotate. They've got I think there's a hydrogen peroxide type spray.
There's potassium bicarbonate spray.
There's a couple of like oil type sprays, which again, these are all just ones that
they're just like they control the surface level.
The only thing that really has any systemic effect is sulfur.
And that's one that people and I honestly don't know the real answer to this bubble.
I will say for sure all the cleanest growers that I've seen in the legal market use a lot
of sulfur. They use sulfur literally some of the music.
They use sulfur pots right to harvest.
I'm not saying that's good or bad.
They will argue I personally wouldn't use it that far.
They argue if you look at the sulfur tests like the leaf, like the tissue analysis.
Sure. There's still not enough sulfur in the plant.
That's their argument. They're just like it's just a plant nutrient.
There's still not up to optimal levels, even with the pots burning.
Bubble men and I honestly just don't know which is true on this bubble.
You know, a lot of people will say that the sulfur gets into and will destroy the flavor,
which I could definitely see. You know what?
So I could just get into everything.
And bubble man back years ago, he used to be the buyer at the Vancouver Compassion Club.
And that was his big thing was he would make hash with it and you could smell the salt,
tell whether somebody had used a fender on their crop.
And I would say definitely some of that had to be bullshit because I've literally smoked
that guy that the one of the big LPs that I know for a fact runs literally until harvest
day. I bought some of their pig cush.
Literally, I know exactly what was done to it and I bought it from the legal store.
It was covered in sulfur. I could do anything.
Yeah. I don't know. I personally am a little sus on it.
But sulfur is definitely like the most effective thing out of those.
And then what I find that kind of is a little bit dumb is like we had I think you guys did
to a whole Michael Butano thing.
When it first went legal, there's a few people.
It's called Nova up here. I can't remember what you guys call it.
Eagle 20.
Eagle 20. That's right.
So a bunch of guys got caught using that.
And there's this whole thing about how it makes like some, you know, when you smoke Eagle
20, it makes this cyanide.
I think it was some some super toxic sounding thing.
But then if you look in and I'm not telling people to go use Eagle 20.
Yeah. I'm just saying I think it's been blown up a little a lot.
So if you look at like the the chemical that they were all talking about, it was so bad.
Well, cannabis already produces it like a thousand times the level that was in the
Michael Butano spray.
So I don't I'm not advocating that people use Michael Butano.
I'm just saying that that is how it's controlled on other crops.
And I would argue like I personally wouldn't have a problem doing clones with Michael
Butano and like knowing like I personally wouldn't have a problem cleaning up mother
stock with Michael Butano.
I would never use it in flour and stuff like that, even though we eat it all the time, like
100 percent of all your food's covered in this stuff.
Yeah. So, yeah, we got some weird stuff there.
It's the same kind of thing with aphids in Canada where it's really easy to get.
I've seen both with Michael Butano and with aphid systemic chemicals where I've seen
people test clean pretty not that far after they've done that application.
Yeah. And it literally makes like it's literally with cannabis.
It seems like one of those dumb things I've seen like these LPs that literally spent like
13 million dollars on biocontrol for a year to control cannabis to control cannabis
aphid. And they could have literally controlled them with like one, you know, endeavor
treatment for like a penny or something like that.
You get it seems like it's gotten a little bit crazy.
Like it's like, OK, who who really cares if it tests as long as it tests clean?
Do you really care whether somebody used it in their mother stock?
So I'm kind of always a pretty big IPM.
I don't really believe in pure biocontrol or pure chemical.
I kind of believe in both.
I don't really see a big problem with a lot of some of that stuff.
If it's test, if you're testing it and it's clean at the end of the day, who cares?
So the issue with that, with that, what happens is any of those powdery mildew, that's just
a general issue with a lot of chemicals is stuff gets resistant to them really quick.
There is back. So I was just saying that not so like what.
So what happens with stuff like that is it's just when they're spraying it too
frequently and it just gets resistant to it and what.
So Canada's got a lot more stringent pesticide laws than the US.
So we've kind of always used a lot more, you know, biocontrol and like
micro glyphic biopesticides.
So that where they would use if you look at a conventional cucumber crop that gets a
huge amount, like way more mildew than the cannabis crop gets, they would always
rotate. So they'll sit there and they'll spray potassium bicarbonate or like these
soft stuff, which you can't get rid of.
So you can't get results for you can't get resistant to potassium bicarbonate.
So they'll spray those every week and then every once in a while they'll throw in a
Nova that kind of just knocks the crap out of them.
And that's how they manage the resistance.
Same thing with biocontrols. Like you were talking about, you know, your spider
reservice. That's how a lot, a lot of crops are just they use the biocontrols
to spread out how often they're going to do the spray treatment just to keep them much
more effective. I mean, yeah.
And in Mendo as well, 20 years ago, you could spray people would use Abimectin.
Some people call it Avid or whatever else.
And they would spray it once and they wouldn't see a two spot for a year.
And then people got to the point where they would spray, they would dip their cuttings in
it every run. They would overuse it to a point where there's a lot of mites in
Northern California that are immune to quite a number of the harsher chemicals.
Well, I mean, like like like Darwulf was saying, I mean, the main introduction is by
bringing in new clones. If they're only seeing it once a year, it's probably because
they're only bringing in new clones once a year to replace the old stuff and bringing in
the new spider mites with it.
I think for spider mites specifically.
Go ahead Darwulf.
Oh, I was just going to say for spider mites and maybe maybe it's different because
you're definitely in California is a very agricultural and intense area.
So but where I where I live, I live in an area that's basically the size of like
Ukiah. But it's it's about like three thousand acres of greenhouse.
So it's just like solid greenhouses and lots of different people own them.
So there's it's I would argue at least as agriculturally intensive as Mendo is and
everyone's spraying different stuff.
And what I've seen a bunch of times, like I'll tell you, a friend of mine owns a big
cucumber greenhouse and he had the same story that Natsu was saying.
Basically, like when I first was going in there, he was literally like tank mixing
like six times the rate of avid with ten times the rate of flora mite.
Something literally I'm not even making those numbers up.
Like it was crazy amounts of stuff.
And and that would basically buy him like five days.
Like he was just in a mad panic, spraying over and over and over again.
And so he switched to using bio control for that.
And within three months, you could and again, I'll just elaborate on this a little
bit. But within three months, you could go in there with a regular rate of flora mite
or a regular rate of avid.
And it looked like you dropped a nuclear bomb in there like you'd spray once and it
was just like wipe everything out.
And so there's two things that can kind of go on with pest populations is the majority
of what I've seen, especially with spider mites, is like it's a it's a short term
selection pressure. So as soon as you take that selection pressure, which may be a
spring avid all the time away for a while, there's nothing selecting for that in the
population. So it just goes back to being susceptible.
You do get sometimes if you look at other pests like white flies, a good example,
there's a type of white fly from down from Southwest.
It comes from southwestern US and it comes from those really agricultural intense areas
where they're getting sprayed a lot.
And in those cases, there's a lot of resistance to insecticides.
It's actually become fixed in the population where it doesn't matter.
It's just like every single one, just like if you're breeding auto flowers and you get
to the point where everything is auto flower, we can't get that out.
But I haven't seen that a lot.
It's definitely possible with mites.
I have not seen it.
I've seen it with white fly and that's about it.
It definitely could happen with other stuff.
But most of the resistance is generally local.
It's generally because the like the people on that farm have been overusing.
Makes sense.
What I what I find in Mendo is when because spider mites breed more rapidly when the
temperatures go up and the humidity goes down, people tend to like, you know, especially
inside and stuff like that, they really tend to get beat up in summertime and then they
tend to get ahead in winter and they lose again in summer.
And, you know, and then there's a lot of things, too, where people used to overuse all
those chemicals, especially when in the two fifteen era, the clubs only tested for parts
per million. People had it figured out, like how close you could use certain chemicals
and still test clean when you took your product in and then they moved it to parts per
billion. And that changed things a bunch.
And, you know, and so now obviously all those things are banned and you can't use them at
all. And so, you know, people have have gone to biocontrol or they've gone to pet,
they've gone to bugs, they've gone to like simpler methods, I think, you know, with
very that's definitely what.
That's definitely what's happened in Canada with the legal market.
Just generally everyone uses as much.
There's definitely some people spraying some nasty stuff in the black market, but most
of them are pretty they use they they're pretty IBM like using a lot of benefit
biocontrol. But the one that I just like, there's just there's some things that
biocontrol just doesn't have a great answer to.
And cannabis aphid is one that is to say it has great answers.
Like there's tons of stuff that will control cannabis aphid really well.
They're they'll never get rid of them, I understand.
And, you know, it gets expensive.
There's some that I'm just like, I personally just can't envision like long term, not
like there's just not going to be a biocontrol that's going to control them cost
effectively. And so, I mean, there's a couple like that, but most of them are pretty
pretty control.
I think probably what you've got going on in Mendo is a climate thing, too, where it's
just really 100 percent bad climate, like where where it'd be hard to make
biocontrols work properly because you got really low humidity all the time.
But sorry, the other thing I was going to mention with the spider mites, one of the
most common things that I see is spider mites.
They go into hibernation under short days.
So they go into what's called diapause.
And so basically what I see happen is really common is terminal get bad spider
mites and then they think they got rid of them.
But just a whole bunch of the population is just like hiding in their electrical
outlets and any little crevice in your room.
In diapause, and they'll do that like kind of so basically they're going to go cycle
just in and out of diapause, so they might disappear for like two months up into your
room somewhere and then you think it's all clean and then you're like, where did all
these spider mites come from? And that's what it was.
You know, that's where it was in diapause.
Cannabis aphids, I can say for for Mendo, it's really the first new pest that I've
seen and probably the last, you know, them and russet mites, honestly, are the two
new things that have come along really within the last like five to seven years.
Yeah, for sure.
It's a regor.
And, you know, and cannabis aphids, I've had experience with lots of other types of
aphids before. Cannabis aphids just breed so unbelievably fast and they're all female
and they all are pregnant and their and their embryos have embryos.
So they just replicate at such a rate.
Like you were saying, there's lots of things that kill them, but you miss a couple and
give it a few weeks and they'll be back to crazy levels again.
Yeah, just like there, I don't think most people describe.
I can't tell people enough times, like don't get them.
They are literally the worst thing you could ever have.
Like, so I'll give you an example of just how bad they are.
Is I had just on a personal growth.
So I was doing some we were doing some trials somewhere for work for cannabis aphid and
I must have had to come from here, but I must have ended up with one on my clothes and
couldn't have been more than one or two aphid because I don't even like I would never
walk right from a place like that into my grow room.
So I had to come from here.
Like I would never walk right from a place like that into my grow room.
But somehow a cannabis aphid came.
That was the only place it could have come from.
So cannabis aphid can only go from cannabis plants.
Right. So if you're like, whatever, living somewhere where there's no cannabis plants
around and you get cannabis aphid, like you brought them in on cuttings, 100 percent.
Or like someone dumb like me brought them in on their clothes from a place that had
cannabis aphid. And at the time, so I was just playing around with everything and you
could control them to kind of like low.
You could keep them at a dull roar pretty easily with soaps or bio controls or like
we're using lace. I did a bunch of different stuff.
It wasn't hard to keep them fairly under control, but to get rid of them was next to
impossible because you literally have to get rid of every single one.
And I literally had to take my entire collection down to like four little
clans and spray them almost to death with soap to get rid of them until they were
entirely clean. Like they're so on a commercial thing, it's basically impossible.
You could never. I don't think it's possible to get rid of them.
The one thing I would say that I have seen and I don't know what the exact answer to
them is, is heat treatments.
So with the crop in, I've seen it.
The only people I've seen actually get rid of them completely used it via heat
treatments. But maybe if you can back up a little bit.
So why they're so bad compared to a lot of people, you'll get like an aphids on your
cannabis crop and then they don't do anything.
That's like pretty common.
So a lot of pests are they are adapted to the crop species.
So, for instance, on tomatoes, don't get a whole lot of aphids.
And most most times on a tomato crop in a greenhouse, you'll get aphids that will come
in and they just don't kind of get going a little bit and they need to disappear by
themselves because they don't like the host plant.
And every once in a while you'll get one that's adapted.
And then it's like, look out, it's basically the same as cannabis aphid.
And with cannabis aphid, it's just highly adapted to that that crop.
So as soon as they get going there, they'll go like.
They'll go like crazy. But yeah, if you go back to the heat treatment, that's one of
the things that actually came from the black market where I don't know in general, but
I was kind of spread that around in Canada and I got it from the black market.
And you're some black market people that we're getting.
You can get these heaters that they use in hotel rooms to kill bed bugs.
So basically, if you heat up a room to like, you know, about 45 or 50 Celsius.
For about five hours, it'll kill everything that's in there.
And some guys were in the black market were playing around for that, for broad
might. And it doesn't work, by the way.
But we also put ended up playing around with it for cannabis aphid, and it does work
pretty well. So the thing is, like, you can really mess your crop up, cranking those
temperatures. And the guys that I know that have figured it out, they won't tell
anyone they did, but it's something to do with heat treatments.
And it's something with playing around with like those high temperatures, like 45
Celsius or something for a few hours, enough to make them all dehydrated.
So there's definitely answers that I think we'll get figured out because I've
definitely seen a few people that have done it.
But yeah, for most people, I'm like, just take a good look at your cutting before you
bring that into your place because they spread so quick.
You know, they they can actually in California, they transfer by air, you know,
from just different because there's so many outdoor gardens.
And really what happened to us is it was Oregon's fault is Oregon had hundreds and
hundreds of acres of hemp once we made hemp legal through the farm bill federally.
And then the hemp market, the CBD market collapsed and people had literally thousands
of acres of hemp that was going to be worthless.
And so they didn't implement any IPM.
And some of these cannabis aphids took over and just replicated at a rate that was
never before seen.
And then they just started spreading like wildfire from there.
Oh, yeah. So basically, that's exactly what's happened is so cannabis aphid needs to
go from a cannabis plant to a cannabis plant.
And generally, I've seen most of the time it's from imported cuttings.
But you can definitely get that.
So basically when they they don't usually have wings, but when they run out of food, a
food source or there gets too many, they'll develop wings and fly somewhere else.
So, yeah, if you've got a lot of growers near you or hemp fields and stuff, you'll get
flyers. Root aphids actually were.
So at least with those ones, like with cannabis aphid, you're like, OK, well, at least
you know if you're away from everybody else or if you screen your greenhouse or screen
your grow room, like do a good job in your garden, you're probably not going to get
them. Even if you can screen them, you're probably not getting them in your grow room
from like a hemp field unless you're like intaking directly out of the outside.
But root aphids, the problem is they're actually worse because they're an actual quite
a widespread pest that lives on a lot of different plants.
So you can get root aphids from, I don't know, all the host species, but you can just
get them from like weeds at such a place.
So that's but it's interesting because I'm the same thing as like when I grew up most
of the time, it was just like it was thrips and spider mites up until PM.
The whole PM outbreak kind of blew up, I'm guessing probably on 2000s or something.
And then all these new ones, the hemp rust, my
cannabis aphid, root aphid and then obsolete and viroids, they're all like came out of
the ground. And so it was just like a whole new thing.
It was just from increased sharing of genetics material, for sure.
It was very poor practices and it was people stopping maintaining their own mothers
and then and then buying and trading amongst their small group of friends and
going to centralized locations like dispensaries or stores or nurseries and just
for the ease of getting their plant stock somewhere.
You know, I mean, OK, no good.
Well, isn't it originally what we saw was just when people it was just, you know,
black market channels opened up more and we were sharing clones a lot more than they
used to, because like, for instance, in that that Nelson, you see area, that was
where have breasted might first showed up in Canada that I saw.
And that was from clones that came out of Colorado that got brought up.
But I'd say in Canada, where the bigger problem has been, it's it's the nursery
thing was kind of stage two of that, where now, because it's so legal, most people
are buying from nursery and it's like whatever that you have clone is, you got to
get it from this one nursery and then people are buying it.
I'm like, don't buy it from that place like you're going to get all kinds of stuff
and they buy it anyways. And all of a sudden they've got cannabis, a food obsolete and
everything else. That's definitely been the second wave is those those legal nurseries,
which is, I think, what you guys are seeing in California a lot, too.
That was what I was going to comment on was the the legal nursery aspect, like, you
know, different different nurseries specifically in California, when a hype strain
would go off, there would be one major clone nursery supplying millions of those
clones to all the different dispensaries out there.
And if HLV was just in one, it takes no effort at all to just ruin every room that it
touches. So, yeah, that's been a massive explosion.
The secondary nurseries, the legal nurseries, all that major pathogen vector.
The thing with with obsolete and is it's again, I've never dealt I've seen it.
I've had a bunch of buddies that have had it pretty well.
And I kind of know I've dealt with other like, you know, vegetable crop viruses and
or viroids that are similar to that.
And viruses are usually really easy to control because the nice thing about them is
like they can't persist outside of like plant sap.
So they're not going to just sit on your floor for a long period of time and reinfect
like a lot of it. So when you see those people, it's just like everything in their
shipping is got hops late and like they're doing something seriously wrong.
Like it's just really bad.
So what I think happened is people, you know, people would use similar scissors or
similar razors or, you know, cloning would spread it really badly, I think, in a lot
of those nurseries. And it would go from being on just a few plants to being on
hundreds. Yeah, almost all the hops late and by right, in my opinion, there's
definitely some that's been spread from seed.
But I think the vast majority has just been spread from, you know, some dude using the
same cutting knife on everything.
Yeah, it seems to be how it's rapidly spread and the water liquid contact between
root systems, it sounds like that's another vector.
That was a new one that I heard on your guys when you had that lady on, it was
interesting to me because I'm like, man, that makes it what I don't doubt it either.
But I'm like, man, I've watched a lot worse.
I've watched it happen in action.
It's pretty crazy.
Yeah. And then she, you know, one of the interesting things she brought up was just
how like leaf tissue, it could be hit or miss whether or not it showed up on testing.
But root tissue, it was like 100 percent.
If you had it, it was going to show up on if you ripped off some roots and tested
those and how it moved through the plant, you know, so and we've definitely had
buddies. We called it dutting back then.
I don't know if it was hop latent, but we definitely have had buddies that like it
ripped through their whole scene basically through runoff.
That was what that was, that was how it got.
That one's new to me.
I that was a really good episode that you like that interview.
She had some really interesting information that I hadn't heard before.
It totally makes sense.
But that's it's it's kind of a different thing because most it's not something you
see in a lot of other cases, because, for instance, like in, you know, greenhouse
vegetables, everything's getting run through like all the run like they do research.
But I mean, everything's getting there's not a lot the way they're set up.
Everything just goes right.
You know, they're all in rockwell slabs and it just basically goes directly out of
that one slab into the, you know, the runoff cat gutter.
And then it gets run through like ozone treatment and everything.
So you're not getting viruses recirculating like that.
I think it's kind of like a it's partly to do with how a lot of people are set up.
Definitely takes a window to like no till dudes when you're when you're like, well,
crap, you get obsolete and viral right in there once and you're basically stuck with
it. Dude, there was a there was a thing, you know, the DNA was part of it.
And they had they were one of the first people that had like huge greenhouse scenes
in Salinas, California, when legal first happened.
And they did all these like two foot deep, five foot wide, 100 foot long beds
everywhere and all these greenies, and they brought in root aphids on their plants
very first run. And they basically infected these living soil beds
with root aphids, and then they struggled for a couple of years and then they went to
one gallon pots. And then eventually burned down.
Yeah, they couldn't get rid of them.
I have I personally wouldn't do it.
I have one of my good friends is a big living soil guy, and I've actually seen him for
sure. I've seen root aphids in his place and they've never gotten going.
Like I don't think he ever gets rid of them, but they don't actually cause him any
problem. And and I think it is because the living soil kind of keeps them in check.
But yeah, I don't I don't know, 100 percent on that.
The one thing I would say on obsolete and viral, those like one of my friends, he runs
a legal place that was the first one in Canada that I saw that got it really bad.
Like they had to shut down the whole they had like a new startup, got it all rolling.
They did like one crop and were like, what the heck is going on here?
And they couldn't figure it out. And they finally they were there before anyone really
knew what obsolete and viral is.
And he's like, dude, it was a disaster for them.
But he's like, it was actually super easy to control.
He's like, literally, as soon as you got rid of the literally just got rid of all the
plants, they didn't even sanitize.
They literally threw all the plants out, waited a week, put fresh plants from a
tissue culture and they've never had them again.
And he's like, you could easily.
That's it.
Pardon me, Matt.
That sometimes that's it.
You know, some of our friends just said, throw it out, start over.
The quickest way through it.
And well, it depends on your setup, probably now that you've got that whole runoff
thing, you know, set up on Rockwell cubes and they probably had like a research.
Like I said, it's pretty standard in a lot of those setups to have ozone in line that
kills anything like that.
So it's going to limit how much it's going to spread.
But he said he could easily say if I had to do it again, I wouldn't even have pulled
the crop. He's like, I just would have like watched, you know, maybe did a good job
testing his mother's and then just going, oh, that one's got it.
And he's just he's just like just from sanitation, like don't use the same knife
from plant to plant.
And he's like, I'm totally confident that I could have done it.
But he's the one of the guys I know you were talking about, whether it could come
from seed or not. I've seen firsthand the lab tests that he got.
So that was what was kind of sad about that whole thing is that dude threw out his
whole clone collection when he started that licensed place because he was worried
about bringing in some weird pest or virus, bought in all fresh Cali seed and
started that whole legal place from there.
And that's where his obsolete environment came from for sure.
And he showed me test packs of like tests from some of the packs that he got.
They tested positive. So there's no doubt some of them are getting brutal, brutal.
You know, she also mentioned or I think someone in the chat at the time mentioned
pollen and it traveling on pollen.
And I didn't I'd never taken that into consideration like a done it now.
Pollen transfer. I don't know if it's possible, but I probably would.
For for somebody like me who keeps a lot of a lot of old a lot of old clones that
are not currently popular and it's hard to get people to back them up for you and
help because if there's not a financial incentive, they're not particularly
interested. It's really scary because there's there's some things that are really
nice that aren't very well spread out and can get ruined.
And I mean, we have good friends of ours that lost some pretty old and some pretty
rare things before the hop latent thing was even known.
We just called it duty and people didn't know what precautions to take.
And so I'm pretty worried about the combination of root aphids and russets and hop
latent and and even stuff like, you know, the that root aphids can spread hoplite.
Yeah, I don't know that that's I think they probably can.
I don't know that that's actually been proven.
One hundred percent of you see, I don't think so either, but I wouldn't put it pretty
like it's pretty likely.
So there's a lot of kind of myth about that.
What I my understanding is something like thrips or spider mites is really they're not
thrips are virus carriers.
But from my understanding from this actually came from one of the someone like
PhD guys in virology, like way more than I do.
They told me that there's the chance of thrips carrying hops latent viroid is almost
next to nothing. I think aphids is definitely quite likely.
And even if it's like to me, everyone's right now so caught up in hops latent viroid,
they forget there's a million other viruses out there that are just as bad that for sure
aphids carry and thrips carry some of them, too.
But aphids are probably the number one like virus vector in agricultural.
Oh, we've been getting there's this stuff that's been spreading around beet curly top
virus. Yeah.
And it gets spread by it gets spread by leaf hoppers.
So there's and that's one of actually one of one thing I'll mention because I think it
matters is, you know, in the in the old days when everybody was hiding in in in small
and medium sized indoors and everybody was up in the hills and tucked away, a lot of
this stuff didn't spread so much.
And now that we've gone legal and people are going into all these traditional ag areas
to grow cannabis, all those traditional ag areas are rife with things that cannabis
hasn't really grown next to yet.
Yeah, and that's one of the things I don't think people like I said, I live in a really
agricultural intense area.
So basically, there is all this greenhouses and cornfields.
And like we've got I think it's 97 percent clear cut for agriculture where I live.
So what's interesting is I've seen it play out a bunch of times, like, for instance, like
on tomatoes, tomatoes never used to get thrips.
So greenhouse tomatoes, they didn't get thrips.
And then all of a sudden, one year, thrips were like this massive issue on tomatoes and
they never went away.
Just kept kind of continued.
And if you trace back what it was, it was they'd started growing wheat.
And so in the fields around the greenhouses, they were growing wheat and wheat's got lots
of pollen and thrips love it.
So because there's like a food source and so you get these giant levels of thrips right
beside your greenhouse.
And when you get a situation like that, and I've seen this with a bunch of different pests,
most 99 percent of the thrips don't like tomatoes.
But sooner or later, you get one that does and then or two that does and then they breed.
And all of a sudden, you've got thrips adapted to tomatoes.
And that's a whole different story.
And that's any time you get agricultural intense areas, that's what you get is these jumps
of a pest that doesn't necessarily normally like cannabis or cannabis.
Or whatever that when you know, when you grow, you know, 10 kazillion white fly right
beside a cannabis crop sooner or later, you know, a couple like cannabis and they have
babies and then bang, you got a whole new pest complex to deal with.
It just sounds like a never ending cycle of pests, pests, pests and probably more going
to be entering into our cannabis fear as it gets bigger, more corporate.
Oh, certainly.
Widespread.
And goes into all those areas that have all those different varieties of pests.
That have all those different pests and then life adapts, you know.
Well, the one interesting thing like a long time ago, I used to be a flower grower.
So I used to work at a really like a pretty big ornamental greenhouse.
We grew like a lot of different types of flowers, like different species.
And one of the more interesting things that I saw there is we always had like, you know,
this type of this variety that always just was never happy.
Right.
And you're growing so many different things.
You could never be nothing was ever perfect.
Right.
And one year we were just like we just took all the we just did a broad sample for virus
for this specific virus, just pretty I would leave it as the cannabis one as well.
It was called the INSV, the patient necrotic spot virus.
And it's a thrips spread virus.
And what was interesting is when we did a broad analysis of like all of our plants,
all the plants, pretty much all the plants that we were like always having problems was
like, I can't figure out why this one will grow or this one's always got problems.
It looks like or this they all had INSV.
So it was all this like basically like 90 percent of all of our what we thought was
plant cultural problems was actually that it had a virus and doesn't necessarily show
the same all the time.
I would lay bets that's probably goes on in cannabis a lot.
That could be a lot that could be a lot of what people call when people think about like
genetic drift or clones get old and tired and they don't want to root well anymore and
they don't want to grow well anymore.
They could have just picked up some kind of pathogen that they don't have a way to detect.
Well, I want to keep everything going.
And I think we're going to have to do a whole another part two of this because it's going
to cut us off right at two hours.
And yeah, I mean, I think we could do a whole another show out of all this.
So is there anything you want to plug before we're done?
Yeah, I mean, it's good.
Is there anything you'd like to plug there?
No, I got nothing to plug, man.
That was good.
It was a good talking.
Well, it was an enjoyable chat for sure.
Yeah, we could have kept going forever except just going to cut me off.
I hate that.
So we really appreciate having you there.
We're definitely going to have you back if you'll have us back and you'll be back on.
And I'm sure everybody will be enjoying it.
And we appreciate all of your tips and tricks with IPM.
It's one of the most requested things we get.
Yeah, not so you got anything you want to plug.
Just always I appreciate everybody's time, everybody listening and tuning in as we explore
different stuff.
So much appreciated.
All right.
Thanks, everyone.
