Welcome to Breeder's Syndicate, where we explore the history of a clandestine scene
through the eyes of the folks who lived it.
I'm Matthew, owner of Riot Seeds.
I'll occasionally be joined by my co-host NotSoDawg, breeder and grower from Mendocino.
Welcome to the underground.
Hey, what's up everyone?
I'm going to record a short here.
One of the questions I get asked the most often is, what is blue bonnet?
To talk about blue bonnet, I have to go back quite a few years before to when I was in
San Diego and I was working at a collective called BCC as their grower there.
Whenever bud would come in and it had seeds, I always told the owner to let me know.
Someone brought in some bud and I looked at it and smelled it and it smelled like sweet
peanut butter.
It was beautiful.
It was super frosty, had seeds in it.
So I was like, okay, I'm going to snake some of these seeds out.
What did they bring this in as?
He's like, well, we have it labeled strawberry cough, but he brought it in as blueberry.
I remember hearing that in the back of my head thinking, there's no way this is blueberry.
This is peanut butter.
This is silly.
So anyways, cut to a few months later.
I'm going through my stuff and I'm like, oh, maybe I'll pop some of those peanut buttery
seeds, see what comes out.
So I pop a bunch of them and out comes in one of them, the most beautiful purple blueberry
smelling plant I'd ever seen.
This is what I refer to as the riot berry from then on out.
And I worked this line for several generations, sold every single seed I had of it.
Bread true for purple traits and the blueberry, it was like blueberry jam, blueberry compote
turps.
But the problem was, is the resin production was kind of low and the potency wasn't really
recreationally viable.
So like if people were smoking it for nerve pain and stuff, it was, it was killer.
It was the only thing that helped like a tooth abscess for me back in the day when nothing
helped.
Yeah.
So I had great pain relieving qualities, but it just was pretty worthless for recreational
potency.
Got to several years later, I lose my clone that I've selected from this.
I lose everything.
I sell everything.
You know, it just, it occurs that I end up with nothing but the BX1 seeds left.
And the BX1 seeds unfortunately weren't a success in the way that I would have liked
them to be.
If something's a BX1, I'm usually back crossing for a specific trait.
The goal in that was to back cross just for the blueberry and, and yeah, the blueberry
traits and the purple, but it didn't happen.
You can get a lot of different berries in there in the BX1, but you can't, it's, it's
a hit or miss on the berry and it should have been, it should have been better.
So what I chose to out cross was not ideal.
So I decided, you know what, like I have a massive blueberry collection.
I've collected blueberry over all the years.
Even while I was working the right berry stuff, I was still collecting every blueberry line
I saw, buying every blueberry line I saw, no matter how old or from when or from where
I bought it.
So I decided to run a bunch of these to look for a good blueberry breeding female.
And what I ended up finding was the most amazing breeding male that I've encountered in my
whole career.
I genuinely think right now, looking back, pre me using the Bluebonnet, like I don't
think anything came close to what was achieved with this.
Now Bluebonnet itself, I had heard about while I was doing my right berry projects.
So I wasn't really paying much attention to what was going on with other people's blueberry,
you know, because I was like, my shit's the best.
What the fuck do I need another blueberry for?
Whatever.
I had blue clones come by, like the Dabney Blue, different DJ Short blueberry selections.
But yeah, Bluebonnet, I had just heard all this stuff about that it was a great blueberry
muffin string, you know, for those turps, and it was pretty true for that.
So I kept that in my memory bank.
And yeah, when I went to go pop seeds, Bodie passed it to me.
Now it was made by Lone Star.
Lone Star is no longer with us.
Rest in peace.
He owned Texas Resin Company.
The original name for it was the Texas Super Blue.
And it later became Bluebonnet because, you know, he's from Texas.
It's the state flower.
This is a beautiful flower.
You know, that's I guess that's where he was going with it.
What I could find from him talking about it, he said that he had gotten an already worked
line of DJ Shorts blueberry.
So someone had taken DJ Shorts where it worked it, and then Lone Star worked it further.
He didn't really say how many generations was in between there and there.
And it's so it's supposed to be a pure DJ blueberry selected for those traits.
However, after crossing it to many things, running out every single line that we crossed
it to, I am fully convinced that this Bluebonnet plant is it's either an anomaly of all all
blueberry that exists, or it was outcrossed at some point to something very potent and
very resinous and somehow still true breeding for the blueberry turps.
It doesn't have a lot of the mutations that blueberry passes.
And if it were just a worked, un-outcrossed blueberry several generations in past DJs,
it would be more inbred and you'd see a lot more of the nasty recessives pop up.
Yeah, I don't see any of that.
It breeds true for potency, for high terpene content, like the terpene percentage.
The blueberry turps are very, very dominant in almost everything it crosses to except
for Super Skunk.
For some reason, Super Skunk stuff is resistant to it a little bit.
With that said, everything I crossed it to that had Super Skunk in it did show some modicum
of berry.
It's just almost all the other lines, you'd find only berry phenos in them, even if it
was an outcross to, you know, something else.
Like our Cherry AK Bluebonnet, you could find only blueberry phenos.
Yeah, so that's the short history on the Bluebonnet.
It's supposed to be a worked DJ line.
I think it's a worked, outcrossed, and worked further, which actually means that they did
more work than they're even intimating.
And it took more talent than they're intimating.
So it's an odd situation, and I'm not sure if it's just that one anomaly that happens
to be the sport that breeds true for all these traits that doesn't breed true for any
of the inbred traits.
I just don't know.
But what I did find was the best male cannabis plant that I have ever worked with in my life.
It was incredibly true breeding, so I could easily predict how each plant that I was familiar
with as far as the clone mothers that I was crossing it to, I could easily predict what
the outcomes would be.
I almost always knew visually everything.
It was pretty uncanny.
The one that I didn't predict would be probably one of the best in the whole thing was a banana
punch cut I had that Skunk Tech selected from Symbiotic Genetics Work.
And it was banana OG purple punch, and it was like a grape, now or later, kind of smell.
Big yield, super frosty.
And I wasn't very well versed with purple punch at the time, so I was just like, oh,
that's supposed to be that weak plant, the one that's not very potent that people like,
well, I have this clone, I'll just stick it in the fucking corner, whatever.
Whatever happened with the blue bonnet and the purple punch, the tests, the THC ranges
are all 22 to 35%.
Now, we all know that labs differ in range on what they'll tell you percentage-wise,
you know, you're buying a service, the higher percentage, the more likely you're going to
come back, whatever.
It still tests very high, much higher than purple punch and much higher than blueberry.
So that's another thing that showed me there's probably an outcross in there, you know, packing
on resin production too.
But yeah, this combination of blueberry and grape just turned out to be one of the most
beautiful, mouth-watering, fruity flavors.
It's one of the craziest things I've ever had.
So yeah, I think in the future I'll probably be doing more work on the line we called Punchy
Bluester, which is the purple punch, banana OG, blue bonnet.
Yeah, we'll probably be doing more work on that one.
The Bubbleberry, which was the Indiana Bubblegum Bluebonnet.
And there's a few more we'll probably touch on in the near future.
If I had my druthers, I would only ever work on the blue bonnet stuff because it was just
that predictable to breed with and everything that I'm seeing I love.
But realistically, a lot of people have had a lot of bad experiences with blueberry over
the years.
And trying to explain to someone how I, with the assistance of everyone that came before
me, Lone Star, DJ, we improved the whole blueberry line together.
And it's something that people who've been soured on blueberry need to try if you really
haven't experienced true blueberry jam, jelly, turps.
It's wild.
And I think the more places that are growing it, the more you're going to see it pop up
because these are spitting keepers left and right.
So yeah, that's the blue bonnet story.
Come check us out on the Breeder Syndicate Patreon.
We have our own Discord where we all hang out.
We also have riotseeds.com.
That's my shop.
Or you could buy my Feminize Seed Spray.
Make your own fem seeds at home.
And that is it.
Want more Breeder Syndicate?
Be sure to check out our Patreon by going to Google and searching Breeder Syndicate
Patreon.
We have a secret Discord where we are available at most times and interact daily.
There are a lot of perks to be had there, so check it out.
Need seeds?
Check out riotseeds.com where you can get our seeds and our Reversal Spray for making
your own Feminize Seeds.
