Yeah, man. I like it though. I like the provenance.
Deep dives. Speaking of which, Dragonfly is asking about the HP 13.
What's that one again?
So that's the Hashplant 13. That's prominent on Maui.
I'm not going to say any specific names, but basically...
He'd love to hear anything about it, he says.
So this is... the cut is still held down within Hawaii.
I could get access to breed with it, but Grace called the grower a well-known person.
He got stuck up on Maui because he didn't follow the instructions on what they wanted him to do with the HP 13.
And Skunk Dog... no, he had the Maui Dog.
So Skunk Dog is an actual mainland bag seed variety found on Maui that people still grow and love.
But the dog was pre-that shit. That was from like the 70s, 80s.
It's basically like a licorice gas variety, right?
Grace called the grower, had the dog, Maui Dog, and HP 13.
And I told him, we're still friends to this day.
I told him, dude, those are cuts you don't want to fuck around with.
You have those, and they catch you breeding with those things.
They'll pull up on you.
And so he got pulled up on.
You know what I mean?
Not a lot of people know that story, but it's kind of a bad look, in my opinion, for Hawaii with the weed game doing that kind of shit.
But you have a lot of proud guys that like, it is what it is.
And it's like, I'll explain it like this.
Like I know guys on Big Island, right?
Not So Dog, I believe the guy's name is.
He doesn't... me and him don't really like each other, right?
But him and CSI are friends.
Caleb.
And he told me he bought hundreds of... or not, thousands.
He bought thousands of dollars worth of Purple Oracle work from Caleb, CSI.
And he couldn't ever find anything like the original, right?
And then he... me and him were talking, right?
Okay.
And I told him...
Mad Farmer's gonna jump in, he's gonna lose his mind.
No, I know.
No, I know.
But just listen, this is all truth right here, right?
Like I happen to, believe it or not, small enough world, my best friend growing up's dad, his brother is the original farm Purple Oracle's out of.
Right?
So, anyways.
If you look into it, me and this guy were talking stories.
We did a couple of podcasts back in 2018 or 19 talking about Hawaii strains.
And he basically was trying to set me up because he wanted to get the cherry pie cut that I had that he knows is Purple Oracle dominant, right?
Because he tried some of my flour on Big Island.
He already knew what time it was.
You know what I mean?
And so, right there, I tell him, look, I don't want to trade for this and that.
I want the HP13 and I want the dog and I'm going to breed with it.
But I need permission to do so.
You feel me?
I'm considered a white boy out here in Hawaii, but I'm born and raised.
So, it's like on my island ain't nobody gonna tell me shit because they already know I paid the dues to be respected.
And basically, he didn't want to make that agreement.
He didn't want to make that trade, right?
So, then I called him on it.
I was like, you should breed with it then and release that seeds to the world, right?
Turns out, I went and talked to the people that are actually well-connected.
They're not even supposed to have those pets and that's why they can't release seeds of it.
They're not going to get rolled up on and have them taken from them, but that's why the seeds aren't out.
You feel me?
There's just people that don't want it out there.
And I know them, but they don't want me to do it either.
Well, you know, that's something that I do see.
I can't comment on the interbreeder stuff, but you're right.
When it comes to Hawaii, there are a lot of people who are proud of the cultivars they have and they're not willing to let them go.
That's something that I've definitely observed.
Yes.
And then the final point I want to make on this is, if you look into it,
CSI is now trying to flyer a cut of cherry pie from DungeonBallz genetics, right?
And I know all of this is happening this way because we've been dominating that purple cherry line for a long ass time.
I know Matt Farmer's killing it too.
But I'm saying some of these other guys that be saying they got this and that, it's all about the leaf serration.
If it doesn't have the double serration on it and the right darkness to the color where the leaf's almost like a blue to it, it's not the real thing.
Well, listen, man, I'm a big fan of what you're putting out.
I definitely don't want to get in the middle of the breeder conflicts.
I'd like to hear your perspective.
I'm not bringing any drama.
I'm telling you facts.
Everything I just stated right there is actual true information.
I got you.
It's just not publicly aired because I get deleted off of every platform that I'm on.
And most people who speak the truth, what happens?
I did notice that you'd lost your Instagram again, but that's unfortunate.
That's a different person.
