Breeders Syndicate Update. Not only is our merch store up at SyndicateGear.com
but all episodes will remain free. But what we need from you is interaction. If
you're watching the show for your first time, kick back and enjoy it. If you like
the show, feel free to like it. But if it's your second viewing, we ask a gentle
person's agreement that you click the subscribe button. It costs you nothing,
but it helps us tremendously with the sneaky YouTube algorithm. Leaving
comments, telling not so his voice lulls you into a trance works as well. We hope
you take the time to do this. We try to put out the best possible shows for you
we can and want to build this community. Thanks again from all of us at the
Breeders Syndicate family. Welcome to Breeders Syndicate 2.0, where we explore
the history of a clandestine scene. Researching everything from cannabis
strain history, old smuggling tales from the first-person perspective, to breeding
science and news on current subculture. I'm your host Matthew and I'll
occasionally be joined by my homie NotSoDog, breeder and grower from
Mendocino, to speak on these subjects and sometimes interview other
participants. Our goal is to document this history before it's written by
corporations and others who just weren't there. Let's start righting some wrongs.
Welcome to the underground. One of the hard parts is people desperately want to
hear real stuff and then you're trying to figure out like well what's not gonna
cause too much controversy, what's gonna piss people off, but I just have gotten
to the point where I just say the truth as I know it. And if you wanna, if you
wanna, you know, converse or argue with me politely about it, that's fine. And I'm
even willing to be convinced, you know. I got a wife and four daughters so I hear
that I'm wrong a lot. One thing that we didn't talk about either that we could
talk about at some point, and I don't know if it ties into something you don't
want to talk about Mad Jag, but like what made you after like three or four years
of successful growing in those canyons stop? You know, because like a lot of
times like in Mendo where I'm at, like people get bigger and bigger and bigger
and bigger until, you know, something stops them. You know, like whether it's,
whether it's they get wealthy enough that they just decide to go on and do
something else or they get pinched or they get divorced and something blows up
in their life or whatever. I didn't. And there was stuff too, when you were
talking about going and visiting the cartels, right? Like all kinds of
questions, but I was like, man, I don't know. That's a delicate one to walk, you
know? So, um, you know, but yeah, it, it, it, uh, because I've had a bunch of
friends up here that, you know, they get one property, they get two properties,
they get bigger, they go bigger, this happens, that happens. And all of a
sudden something changes and that part of their life is done for a bit in that,
those spots they left, you know, cause the neighbor got pissed off or the law
enforcement came in or something weird happened. And all of a sudden all that
infrastructure and all that time and effort. Um, and then some people just,
you know, they just cashed out and were happy and went on and did something
different, you know, like it fueled some next part of their life or something,
you know? So, uh, well, I, I, after the last year in magic Canyon and making a
good amount of money that year, I bought a ranch that was way beyond my means.
And I, and my concept was that after one year, before one year, before the next
payment came to, I would sell a piece of it. And it was an amazing place, had a
year round river stream going through it, like five miles of dead end road that it
was at the end of it down in a Canyon of its own along the Mogollon rim. It was
incredible, but not far from Zane gray country. And, uh, I, I didn't, I wasn't
able to sell a piece and I lost the whole thing. So, um, it was, it was like,
Oh no. And that's when I more or less got into the Mexican import instead, because
my friend, um, that I, the truck driver, helicopter pilot, pilot, pilot, anything
that moved, he could drive it, um, fly it, whatever. He, uh, plugged us into that
whole area in Mexico. And interestingly enough, the strip that we used was you
would drive by it to get to this ranch. It was six miles beyond. And so it was in
the same basic zone and area. It was easy for me to study and go investigate and
look at it. So we used it three times for weed. And then they started wanting to do
the other white marching powder, the disco powder, and we weren't interested.
And I lost touch with him and I read about it in the news more or less later
because I wasn't in that area anymore. I didn't have that ranch. So ranch costs a
half a million and I put 50,000 down and lost it. So, so I decided to get into
something else that was a little easier, seemed easier. And it was, it was for a few
years, really quite nice. And when he, when we walked away from him, we
simultaneously through another friend met a guy in Tucson area who would front us
anywhere from 175 to 250 pounds of Mexican sensimia. And that's what we started
sending to the Rastafarians and in Brooklyn. And that was the, that was the
best of all because we can never send them enough. Whatever we could send them
because the sources from Jamaica were very difficult at that point in the early
eighties. They had, you know, it wasn't like the early days and they were using
Jamaica as a bounce from Columbia at that point for cocaine. So they, the pilots and
people who came in there were not interested in flying some weed from Jamaica
up to the US and Florida was hot. You know, I mean, anything coming into Florida or
that direction was pretty much in trouble by the early eighties, late or mid eighties.
But one thing I've definitely known about, about cannabis people is if you consider
like weed a casino, you could, you could make the score of your life and you wake up
and you're like, I should take all my money and put it all into chips and go back at
it. It's like, it's very, very common with weed people where you're like, this was the
most successful year of my life. I'm going to throw it all on the table again. I'm all
in. Let's go. You know? And that works until it doesn't, you know? Yeah. Yeah. That's very
common in that regard. That risk, risk taking is definitely part of the game for sure.
I also don't think humans are very good at realizing that like this could be the best
five years of my life. They think, well, this is my new floor and it's only it's I'm on
the way up from here. Not like this could be a, this could be a high point and I could
be, I could be downward sloping it pretty fast in the next couple. I just think that's
part of human nature. We always think that like, okay, this is my new floor. And in some
instances you look back and you're like, wow, that was like really a golden era for me.
Like things were great, you know? And I didn't, I didn't appreciate it quite as much as I
should have at the time that these, but that's like youth, right? Like youth, you know, youth,
you have all this exuberance and very little experience, you know? But in sometimes, you
know, that's what, you know, youth, youth makes you do a bunch of shit that an older
person would be too conservative to do. And you're young and dumb and you're just like,
well, let's go for it. This'll be great. You know? So.
You guys ready to, ready to light the fuse on this thing?
Yeah, let's do it.
In the first episode, we briefly touched on your introduction to cannabis, your first
time getting high, your first time, kind of the strains that you were, you were seeing
around that time. I believe there were a lot of Colombians, right?
Yeah, that was, that was the majority of what we smoked. This was bought off the street,
you know, high school kids.
Okay. And from there, let's talk a little bit more into the, how you got into a more
serious side of cannabis, where you started getting not just into, you know, collecting
a seed here or there from this thing, but kind of breeding and being more serious about
collecting.
Yeah. Well, you know, my first, like we talked about in the first episode, I think my
first time trying to pop seeds didn't end too well. Came back the next year, which I
believe would have been 1980. And that year we had, I had a great place to grow with a
couple of buddies of mine. We had a collection of, of what turned out to be killer seeds.
We had great success. By that time, I'd had a lot of time to research and read about,
you know, research growing and prepare for the season. And basically I started right
off doing hydroponics outdoors in five gallon buckets with a medium, which was peat moss,
bagged cow shit, perlite and vermiculite using EcoGrow dry hydroponic nutrients.
Where'd you get the recipe for that?
You know, High Times was whatever High Times was selling. That's one thing they're really
good at is selling, right? So yeah. The advertisements back then, it was basically
between DynaGrow and EcoGrow. And DynaGrow was the slicker looking ads. I don't know
why I picked EcoGrow really, but it was a two part, two part mix of granular stuff.
And, you know, I remember mixing up my, my soil mix in the backyard of my parents'
house on a big plastic sheet, you know, breaking down everything and just kind of
lifting up one side and another to make it roll and tumble and mix. You know, somewhere
in the house, my parents were probably watching me thinking, what the hell are we
going to do about this kid? You know?
I'm sure.
But, you know, they never, never stopped me. I think they were just kind of marveling
at, you know, the daringness of the whole thing. And I don't know. Yeah. But so, yeah,
that that season we had, we had a Mexican, we had, we had that, that Maui that I told
you about. We had a red bud, what I call red bud, but this was one of those rare times
when you kind of leapfrog that the dude that you've been buying weed from for a year or
so, and you've gotten to know suddenly lets you in on something at a higher level.
You know, in this case, the dude needed somebody to drive him to pick up a load. And
I guess all of his usual people weren't available. And or maybe he just needed somebody
that was, that was disposable. I was under 18. So, you know, if we got busted, you know,
probably nothing was going to happen to me. So too bad. But he had a he had a 1979 Smokey
and the Bandit black Trans Am. The, you know, the 400 cubic inch big block in there with
the Golden Eagle on the hood. And this guy let me drive his car down this these gravel
roads into the country, you know, this is nothing but farms. I was like, are there weed
people out here? But, you know, we went down this kind of this gravel road along the fence,
along the fence line. And there was a farmhouse at the end of the road. And the guy, the guy
said, Okay, I'm here. Let's change you drive. Now you're going to drop me off. You're going
to come back here and you're going to wait. You're going to wait 15 minutes and then turn
around, come back and pick me up. So, okay, you know, I can follow those directions. I
mean, driving this car was was just dream come true. You know, amazing ride. Oh, I bet.
But I, you know, I followed instructions came back a little while later scared, but, you
know, excited. And we went back, you know, he came in through something in the back and
off we went. Turned out it was the you know, it was what we called red bud back then. But
it could have been Colombian red, it could have been Panama red, I don't have I'll never
really know. But these things, these buds were fresh. Like, I was used to getting stuff
that was pressed into bricks by a hydraulic press, you know, that by the time you got it
and broke apart, you know, went through a quarter pound, they were like chips. Yeah, very
dense, you know, seed smashed. And, you know, the the weaves and flowers and stems all
pressed together into, into kind of a when you broke it apart, it you couldn't really tell
what it was. But this stuff, it was loose. It was uncompressed. And every single bud in
the in the in the in the in the bags was like the tip of your finger about inch and a
quarter inch and a half long, spongy. And it was dark, dark red, like, like blood that
dried, but you know, like a scab almost color. Yeah, and it was sticky, right? So they were
they were roundish, like the tip of your finger, like I said, dark, dark red. And man, this
stuff, when you smoked it, you know, the effect was very sedative. It was like, it was
hashy. And the taste was, you know, dark, like dark wood, and hash. And just, just fantastic.
You know, it was like, like you would imagine if you could smoke ebony, probably wouldn't
recommend that, you know, for kids. But if you could, you know, had that dark wood, like, like,
like some sort of charred oak barrel used for bourbon or something, you know, like mahogany.
Yeah, mahogany. Exactly. It looked like it tasted like it fermented at all, do you think?
No, no. I mean, it was, it was like fresh, there was no moldy, no sort of funk to it at all. It
was this shit had been had been allowed to mature past peak on the plant in a place where weather
wasn't wasn't wasn't destroying the plants at the end of harvest time. Right. Interesting. So,
and it must have been. Yeah, it was gorgeous stuff. So we had that I found seeds in that he
gave me he gave me like a half ounce for being his wheel man, which I was like, man, I want to do
that every week. You know, I mean, I never, never got the chance to do that again for him. But,
you know, it was I had, we had that plan. I grew a few from those seeds. I had a Mexican.
How old were you?
So I guess if it was I was 17. 17. Wow. Yeah. Yeah. And so I had like a collection of these
different things that we would all kill for today. Oh, yeah. All growing up.
Weed like that's that you don't even really see pictures of that anymore in magazines or anything
like that. Nobody. Not that I can think of. Yeah. Yeah. Well, that farmhouse that we went to,
you know, that's kind of the way stuff. I'm pretty sure it was some sort of biker house.
And, you know, I've been I went to a couple places that were either biker places or actually
famous people places that I'm not gonna I can't really say because it'll give away too much info
about, you know, who and where. Sure. Where I was at. But, you know, it's funny, you know, like
rock and roll group type thing, you know, houses associated with with Southern rock bands that.
They smoked a lot of fucking weed in the Southern rock band.
So, yeah, that that season started off great. You know, I got them up to about about six,
seven feet tall and a huge storm came blowing through and that redbud plant, which I don't know,
you've got a picture of it, actually. I don't know if you can put that up or not, but.
One of the things that was unique about it, first of all, the weeds were very wide for,
you know, what we call a sativa, you know, highly, highly serrated. And one of the distinctive things
about that plant was that the nodes on the on the plant were were zigzag, you know? Yeah. So
instead of instead of the axles that were the petioles come off the stem being symmetrical and
coming off in pairs of two, you know. Yeah. It would it started zigzagging very early on.
And, you know, that leads to a structure on the plant where the flowers kind of
stack offset from each other when it goes into flower and they fill in all the gaps.
But I see that sometimes with OJs today. Yeah. I see plants that have that same kind of zigzag,
you know, branching pattern. You know exactly what you're talking about. Yeah.
Dead on. So the storm hits and it breaks it breaks that plant over right at the base.
And of course, today I'd be like, well, OK, let's just make one big giant clone.
Yeah. I mean, it would have been it would have been 100 clones off of that plant, you know. But
yeah, me and my me and my teenage partners were just like, oh, no, you know, it's dead, Jim.
You know, so we were all we lost that one. But we moved we moved all these plants through the woods,
five gallon, you know, seven seven foot tall in five gallon buckets through the woods a couple
of hundred yards to a better spot. I think we were afraid for some security scare at the same time.
So the Thai plant went, you know, to the new spot. The Hawaiian, the Maui went to the new spot. The
Mexican went to the new spot. And yeah. And so everything else we grew to finish. There were
two of the Thai plants. And there's a there's a picture of that one of the ties in this.
The picture there is what wound up being the purple tie that we grew. So, you know, from a from
an appearance standpoint, people are really you'll hear a lot of people talking with great certainty
about, you know, well, Thai plants have, you know, wide, highly serrated leaves. And it's often
described as being the alligator tail leaf. Right. And that's true. And then there's also
Thai plants which are, you know, have extremely narrow leaves and and have a completely different
kind of serration and other distinctive leaf traits, which I don't really like to talk about
because it's kind of my clue to know whether somebody has the real thing or not. But, you know,
stuff like that's important to keep back. And people don't realize that, like, there's certain
traits and in certain lines that, like, you don't really want to say openly because of people who,
you know, manipulate shit like that. So, yeah, totally. Yeah. You know, when they do when they
do when they release information about like, this isn't my wheelhouse, it's more Matt's. But when
they release information about like murders and stuff like that, and they're looking for that,
they're looking for help, they actually put in details sometimes that are slightly not correct
so that they can weed through the hundreds of tips that they get when people are like, oh,
yeah, this, this, this and this. And they're like, oh, no, that that was actually part of the fake
that we put out, you know, because, yeah, people will as soon as you say it, people will find it.
Yep. And they'll have stories about it. So it's a real it's an interesting part of like talking
about history or whatever is are those kind of little keys. Have you seen any good examples of a
broadleaf tie before? Like a true like in its in its in nature, not just saying this is a tie,
like an actual broadleaf tie? Absolutely. Yeah. And in the book by Lawrence Cherniak. Yes. Great
books of cannabis. Yep. So I'm perfectly willing to believe it. You know, all I know is I bought
the first version of great books of cannabis, like, just like volume one, whatever that was,
and back in, you know, early 80s. And in that book, there's a picture of, of a patch of Thai
wheat growing under some sort of canopy in the woods. And they all have that that wide leaf
beautiful, beautiful plants. But they're definitely wide leaf, you know, and so the tie that I was
growing came from sticks that one of my partner's older brother brought back home in a tie and some
tie stick he got at University of Colorado, Denver, Boulder, wherever the hell he was going.
It was Christmas time, and he came back home to be with his parents. And my buddy found his stash
on a tray under his bed and stole the seeds and we grew them. We got to smoke a little bit. But
you know, he was pretty stingy. He was pretty stingy with the stuff he had stolen. I'm sure.
I'm sure. That's funny. Yeah, it was more narrowly the stuff that you guys grew.
Yeah, yeah. And you know, like back to that point, you know, about the information about distinctive
traits that, you know, releasing it that and not so and I were talking about it the other day. And
it's like, you know, as much as I want to share everything that I know, I what my fear is that
things that things that you don't, I've never heard anybody else talking about on forums
that are, you know, unique tie traits that that, you know, were very distinctive for me back then,
you know, I'm just afraid that if I say it, then the next thing you know, there's going to be,
you know, 10 guys on Instagram selling old school tie heirlooms and they're just going to have this
bullet points of whatever I say here, you know, this is what it is. Yeah, legitimate fear,
you know, and yeah, you know, I, we took we definitely talk about that quite a bit. In fact,
it's one of the things that like, the entire second generation of like, of like Amsterdam breeders,
just decided to be absolutely, completely vague with lineage, because they got so tired of
competitors stealing the exact ad copy. And being like, well, it's this, you know, and they got very
secretive on what it was and where it came from, and how did this and how did that and so we,
we see it now on IG even with certain names of strains and different things. So it's,
it's kind of a catch 22. It's like you want to get the information out there, but
it also feeds people that want to fake stuff. Yeah, definitely does. And if you say it on this
show, I can almost guarantee that someone will have it up tomorrow for sale somehow in there.
Like you said, like little bullet points, it happens. But you know, the other side of it,
and you know, this is what we were talking about the other day is that it's like, well, you know,
Thailand is just reopened, you know, from for legal, legal production. And, you know,
even even over there. I mean, there's just so much happening right now that maybe,
if you know the information that I have might be useful to somebody, the next thing you know,
better selections are made, and the stuff actually does become available. I mean, it's it's it's a,
it's a bit of a, it's a bit of a conflict. And I'm just going to hold back on some of those
details right now. But, um, you know, that that particular week or two of those type plants,
one was green in flower, the other was purple. And the purple one was just amazing. You know,
I'll just I'll go ahead and talk about the effects of tie, please, you know, as opposed to,
you know, selection things would be help people earlier on. But, you know, the effects of it.
I sat down. I got in trouble in high school a lot, right, mostly because, because I didn't give a
crap about the school and I would come in every morning and, you know, get get really high before
school walk in. And then, you know, just kind of chill there until lunchtime. After lunchtime,
the buzz was wearing off, I'd come back and, and fall asleep in the next class right afterwards.
And anyway, um, you know, all I really cared about was weed, I'd fallen in love with this
plant. It was my first great love. And, and that's never really ended. But, um,
you know, I, I would sit there and I'd gotten trouble for like, whatever absences or whatever
and get get in school suspension. And of course, that was a challenge to get really, really high.
Because you're sitting there in in a classroom with a bunch of other delinquents. And, you know,
you're forced to sit there and be silent. Right? And you're supposed to, you're supposed to be
doing schoolwork, but I was already not doing that. So that wasn't going to change. So I,
I basically would sit there and I started writing describing, inspired by our right, I would sit
down and describe the effects of the high that I was experiencing. And I was describing that the
effect of the tie and I wrote like a page and a half of it. And I still remember it, even though
this other kid that was in class liked what I'd written so much that he asked if he could keep it
so I don't have it anymore, but I still remember it. And basically, you know, the effects of the
time were very different from Colombian of the day or Mexican, or even you know, what we you know,
what we know today is the Hayes High. In that it was it was totally introspective. Right?
You know, Hayes and Colombians can make you feel connected with things around you.
Sure. But the tie weed was totally introspective. Instead of being connected with things around you,
other people, nature, whatever, it was all in the head. It was all and it felt like waves,
right? Where and your thoughts were kind of going from, you know, smoothly connecting from one
thought to another, kind of, you know, ebbing and flowing as as you as you kind of go through these
musings of different things inside your head. And it was in that way very, very different from
from the Colombian that we you know, was our normal thing.
Would you would you say that it would lead you closer to paranoia? Because it was so introspective,
like an ego crusher? Or would you say it was more freeing?
It was, it was luxurious. It was, it was smooth, like, like a tide, you know, coming and going. It
was it was not, it didn't have that that electrically charged anxiety that you can feel
sometimes with, with, you know, a particular particular phenos of Hayes. It was it was very
much kind of, you know, had a bit of a dreamy aspect, but you were very, very awake.
Would you associate the clear headed high that you described with Tai?
Yeah, yeah, absolutely. I've never had the same experience with anything else.
You know, Hayes is very different. You know, it's very, very different.
But that leads me to a thought. Maybe Raho, you and and and magic and talk like,
when you guys were all consuming this stuff, you know, basically pure and like, not not all
mixed together, like we got it way later or like hints of it. What you know, you just touched on
it a little bit, but like, what were the big differences you noticed between like, say,
smoking pure Mexican pure tie and pure Colombian? You kind of just talked about that a little bit
in terms of tie versus Colombian. But what, you know, you know, were there other distinct
differences you guys noticed in the highs? Did you have preferences of what you really liked
one versus the other? Because was it consistent? Or did it just vary from plant to plant a bit?
Let me, let me just keep going on this for just a second, because I don't have much to say about
Mexican. It was kind of a rare, rare thing where we were. And, you know, when it showed up, it was
unique. But, you know, it didn't have the sedative kind of knock it knockdown power of the Colombian.
It was, it was light, uplifting, tasted great, energetic, but, but, you know, it didn't have the
depth of effect. It seemed a little superficial to me. And this was very limited experience that
I had with it. So, you know, I'm just not an expert on Mexicans. I grew it, grew some of the
seeds from it, they matured way early compared to the Colombians, so much so that I actually let the
stuff go over mature past peak, you know, resin development. And, you know, I'm pretty sure that
I lost some potency off letting it go too long. But, you know, the, the tie was just special. It
was so special that, you know, I only sold like one bag of it. The guy that I sold it to, you know,
wanted more immediately. And I guarantee if we could find him right now, he would still tell you
that, that he remembered that smoke. And it was maybe the best weed he'd ever smoked in his life.
You know, I mean, it was that, that unique. You know, the Colombian were lucky today because we
have so much good example, you know, so much of what was available in the Colombian, you know,
in the breadth of Colombian weed back in the day, it's been captured somewhere in the Hades
genome and accessible through anybody who's willing to put in the work. That's, that's, that's it for me.
What do you got Mad Jag? As far as your high experiences between
Thai, Mexican, Hawaiian, even things that have acclimated to Hawaii, Colombia?
Well, I would say that Rahul, he summarized it pretty well. Colombians, when they showed up,
they were just so overwhelming. Some of them were so overwhelming couch lock that
you hear stories in my friend from Colombia had this weed that was truly wacky weed. I don't know
who first wrote about that. I think it was R who, who discussed it, having gotten some cities
and people, you know, would fall down stairs, they would throw up, they would, their sense of
balance would go off so bad that they would, you know, fall down. And Mexican was not like that.
Mexican was more, all the ones I smoked, even the ones that were really strong, were still like
social and uplifting. I didn't smoke like my friends who, you know, would roll hash joints
all day and smoke them. They had a different level of, well, they needed testers like myself
that were, we smoked once or twice a day. And so I don't know, it was some of those early Colombian,
Mexicans that my friend who was the dealer in Tempe got were just outstanding.
And when people tried them, you were talking about green weed earlier, Rajo's,
or maybe it was not so, but you know, once they saw it and tried it, it was, they didn't care the
color, but most people were used to the compressed brick weed, brown weeds, and even lots of seeds.
But this, once it switched over to the seedless, since the Mia coming over from Mexico,
Michoacan, particularly, Wahakon and Guerin, those three zones were, each one was different.
The smoke was different, but they were all uplifting. Not that they couldn't paralyze you
because sativas can be, get on the racy side. And I know what you're talking about, the paranoia.
I don't know if I was paranoid or just actually knew someone was after me, you know,
I went through that a few times with smoking. Thai weed, I don't remember. It was a small window
of period that I even saw Thai weed on the market or people selling it like 69 to maybe 74. And
that was it. Never saw it again myself. I don't know if I was paranoid or just
74. And that was it. Never saw it again myself. I've heard stories about it, but never saw it.
And it was, it was ahead of all the other sativas when it hit.
There's, there's a bunch of articles in old high times that R writes about, and it's talking about
like the disappearance. You can almost like document like the years, the disappearance of
Colombian for a little bit, the disappearance of Thai for a while, the resurgence of it. It's so
fascinating. There's so much you can learn just by reading just his articles in high times during
those years. Have you taken the time to scan those articles and we could compile just an R book.
I did. You did? I did. I have every single one. Yeah. From, from when did he stop?
I think 84, 85 is the last stuff I see from R. Yeah. And I think about 85, he bounced from high
times and then continued his career writing about Adolf Hitler, like the history of Adolf Hitler
and Nazis. And he had a lot of very extreme opinions, political opinions, but not, not
necessarily like he wasn't an extremist by any stretch of the imagination, but he quit writing
about weed and he's still very well known. I would love to hear from him sometime since he's still
with us on this side of the shadow realm, you know, we'll see. One thing I think is curious,
I heard it from both Raho and Madjag is that because in modern times so I want to follow up
on it just real quick. In modern times, we kind of consider sativa to be, you know, thin leafed,
uplifting paranoia, trippy. It has these various effects, but you guys were both mentioning that
there was some pure sativas that were couch locking. And I would say like modern weed people
today, everybody thinks that if you get couch locked, it's the indica something coming through.
Like people don't associate couch lock at all with any kind of pure sativa. But I just heard both
Raho and you mentioned that some of the pure sativas you smoked kind of were like, you know,
couch lock. However, they were the Colombian sativas to me. Mexican sativas were very powerful,
but you still wanted to go do something, go hiking, go climbing, you know, go bowling even.
But Colombians, the couch locking Colombians were just so overwhelmingly powerful and they were pure
sativa. I've heard people talk about Colombian indicas and I don't think that's correct unless
they were introduced, you know, to Colombia. Where genetics have spread, it's possible,
but not native to the jungles. No, no, no. And I also think there's a part of me.
You know, I was going to comment on the couch lock and the indica from Colombia, the idea of
indica and Colombia. So, you know, the couch lock piece of it, it's it must be, you know,
it's just so hard to get a Colombian to reach maturity in outdoors and the kind of, you know,
latitudes that most of us live in. You know, part of it may be that we just never really get
there to the point where those effects become, you know, come out. But also Colombia, you know,
as a country, it's just got such a diverse kind of breadth of different kinds of wheat. And,
you know, from, you know, from the gold up in Santa Marta, it's interesting that,
you know, people talk about indica in Colombia because Santa Marta, you know, the times that I
had, it was, you know, legit from Florida, from my one of my buddies, Deadhead Sisters. And,
you know, this stuff was fresh. It was it was chips. So it was pressed, but it was bright,
bright yellow gold. And and, you know, it was it was moist. You know, the moisture level
throughout this stuff was very consistent. You could see the calyxes, large golden calyxes,
kind of throughout these these little chips of gold. And, you know, there was gold and a little
bit of green in there. And when we smoked it, the taste was, you know, it had a lot in common with
what we think of as indica today. You know, it had that same kind of hashiness. It had
some citrus elements to it. But there was there was also something that you just don't really
find in indicas. And there was a sandalwood taste in there, which was was unique. Right. And so
but it's funny that there was so much in common with indica, you know, coming out of that gold
while being, you know, probably something completely different. I don't know. You know,
I'm not sure I understand that at some point there was some pharmaceutical company that was
growing, you know, took genetics down to Columbia and did some work down there. I don't remember
the details of it, but I'm not throwing out a theory that had anything to do with Samarda
gold or anything, but just just what I smoked. Yeah. The biggest issue I would have with indica
is making their way down to Columbia is that they would just flower at like, you know,
at shin height or something. And, you know, you really have to breed them heavily into the native
stuff because, you know, it's it's Colombian is basically equatorial. The equator runs right
through Columbia. And so, you know, if you put out pure indica there, they would literally flower
instantly within a matter of days. They would start putting on they would start putting on
stuff. I just think it's interesting that like we've accepted that wide leaf is always means
that there's indica heritage. Thin leaf always leans towards sativa. Sativas have this certain
set of highs. Right. And then indica's have this other set of highs and the two don't overlap.
And basically what you guys are talking about right now is that there's a range of leaf width
and there's a range of highs that maybe they do overlap some more than people thought.
Right. Yeah. Yeah. You know, my experience with Mexicans was that they were
kind of rushy and that the duration of the effect, you know, was uplifting. It was it was happy.
It was it was head rushy, but the duration of the effect was not that long.
Your audio is clipping a little bit, buddy. Okay.
The duration of which was sorry. It's better now. Yes. The duration of the
the the duration of the Max was was not as not as long and it was head rushy,
you know, uplifting, you know, positive, but but nowhere near didn't last anywhere near as long as
the Colombians and the Colombians were more of a kind of zonked part of that part of that. You
know, the commercial stuff was probably because of processing handling, just the degradation of
the cannabinoids to CBN and stuff like that. But. When you know, when you talk about Sativa's
being trippy, that's that's kind of a pet peeve for me because it's such a vague term to say trippy,
almost to the point of being meaningless. You know, I mean, I'm not an expert on on
trip tripping, but, you know, the it seems like people could be a little better about
describing the effects and saying trippy. It's a bit of a pet peeve for me. I I think that.
You know, I think the language around highs is individual, and I think a lot of times people
think whatever happens to them is what the weed does. And it's always been interesting to me that
some people it's a lot easier for them to smoke weed and trigger a paranoia experience where other
people can smoke that same cannabis and not feel that at all. They're just like warm and happy and
energetic and they feel great. And the other person that smoked the same joint is like ready
to crawl out their skin and maybe needs an intervention from their friend. You know, so
I think like how it interacts with our bodies isn't as understood as we would like,
you know, and we think it's monolithic, like, you know, this weed does this to these people.
But it's not always the case, I don't think, you know. I also wanted to mention something.
When we talk about Colombian or we talk about Panama, we talk about Thai or whatever. One of
the things that gets talked about with Colombian a lot is Colombia is pretty mountainous. And so
they talk about lowland Colombians that are grown in the valleys and stuff. And then highland
Colombians that were grown like way more up in the mountain valleys or even on ridges and things
like that where the elevation was much different. And those two things seem to grow quite a bit
differently and probably have different highs too, you know, because their climates are so much
different. Yeah, Matt, Jack and I have a friend who's kind of an expert in the variation within,
you know, the Colombian family of plants from effects to taste, smell, terps, you know.
Just this guy can go through and do a pheno hunt on a line and just basically, you know,
of haze types or, you know, Punta Roja or, you know, various and just basically slice it and
dice it out into different, completely different Colombian types. I don't have that level of,
you know, detail. You'd have to run way more plants than I ever did to be able to do that.
And I guess this guy is just, he's really passionate about it. Highland, lowland, you know,
it's like, geez, man, by the time it got here, nobody really knows where it came from.
Sure. I always get a little irked about that because it just seems like marketing talk more
than the reality of what happened, where the farmer did his work, you know. I think that,
I think certainly like not knowing where it came from is true. I mean, I talked before on one of
our previous episodes about you guys are talking about Oaxacan and Guerrero and Michoacan and the
differences. And when I was getting Mexican in high school, by then it was just straight Mexican.
You weren't getting any regional information. It was, there was green and brown, and you were
hoping to get the lesser compressed stuff that was green. That was, that was your goal if you could.
But as far as like where it came from, by the time the nineties were around and I was smoking it,
you had no idea. Your dealer didn't know, their dealer didn't know. I don't know how high up the
chain you'd have to go before someone had an idea of origin. But it just was not even coming.
I think that's all Mad Jack's fault for giving those two kilos a seat to the cartel.
Yeah. Well, I mean, you know, even if they, I just don't, I mean, maybe people knew,
but it wasn't trickling down to 16 or 17 or 18 year old me, you know.
Right. Right.
There was too many layers in between.
Yeah. There's still, there's maps that they have nowadays that talk about which cartels
were going, which routes, and we're going into which things. But I think that's like the best
idea we can grab from anywhere right now. Cause I agree. Even, even, you know, I came in 10 years
after not so, and it was the same experience. Like you have Mexican and you have Mexican and
you have like Mexican that's not as compressed. And sometimes, honestly, the stuff that wasn't
as compressed, wasn't as good as the stuff that was compressed for me. And it always looked way
better and smelled way better. And it never really had the same kind of high.
So there's like good old, big Mexican and big old good Mexican.
Yeah. Right.
I, I actually, speaking of them, I actually just read this thing yesterday, you guys,
where they were talking about the, I don't know what they, they have some nickname for
them that I don't remember, but they were calling the, like the kids of El Chapo and how they've
realized that like, if they want Mexican to be considered world-class weed, they need to reinvent
it again. And so it sounds like they're doing something similar where they're gathering up
genetics from all over the place because they have money and space and time. And they're trying to
reinvent things, figuring that it's going to go legal before too, too long. And they want to be at
the forefront at it. So it sounds like there's some pretty extensive breeding projects and they have
an interest in it of taking it from like your traditional good old Mexican and like reinventing
it for the modern market. I mean, they've got the longest time in this bit or some of the longest
time in this business. So it makes sense that they'd want to keep their business control.
You know what I mean? Like this is their, their stake.
They have their own challenges down there, just like Thailand does. And just like we do in the
States and that, you know, the, the impact of the war on drugs has just did blight it, you know,
it's just caused the massive loss of, of so much heirloom genetics. But the, the positive thing is
that, you know, as, as they're reopening, just like in Thailand, there are going to be pockets
of people who have kept this stuff alive that are going to kind of pop up from their, from their
holes and, and, and start doing the work again. I mean, I know Jaggi and I both have, we have,
we have friends down in Mexico who, you know, are in remote areas working with very old genetics,
people who have kept the stuff alive and, and are working to kind of bring, bring back
something from the glory days. It's it's very, very humble people, very passionate about what
they're doing. And, you know, it's, I feel honored to, to, you know, read about their work.
I get the chance. You know, who else is really passionate about spreading
land races? Sorry. Had to, had to bring in our boy. Oh my gosh. He was holding up his, he loves
it when his favorite possessions is his Argent bobblehead. Oh man. Yeah. That's great. He is
the king of cannabis. Oh, well that's it. It's all cartel, man. We, we know a couple of individuals
who are outside of that realm and they're just humble farmer type guys that are on forums. And,
you know, I, I've never smoked any of it or had anyone that I know so far receive it from them.
It's usually from here being sent down to them because they're interested in seeds also. But
back to the Colombian part in Colombia, like you mentioned, there's lowland, there's the highlands,
there's the valleys and Santa Marta way up in the North, next to Venezuela, almost on the Caribbean,
the high elevation of Santa Marta's. Every one of those was a distinct high early, at least in
1969, 70, 71, 72, 73. I met my Colombian friend who I ended up being friends with, and he stayed
in the United States for eight years at the Redway, in Redway at the tavern, country tavern in 1973.
And he, I think I mentioned, you know, that wacky weed that he had was, I've never seen anything
still that's that potent. It was, it, it was compressed, it was black, it had, it was seedless,
there was no stems. And it was from one source, one old grower, he said, who's been growing weeds
since the 40s up in the mountains in Neva, N-E-I-V-A. And he would get five or six ounces
at a time in New York City. And they looked like chunkies in, they're in aluminum foil in a square,
maybe two inches by two inches by an inch thick. And it's so, I told Rajo this, in 1973, it sold
for a hundred dollars an ounce. I mean, there was people in Arizona that would drive from Flagstaff
to Phoenix on a phone call. If you said, there's some here, you have to come now, they would drive
immediately two and a half hours. And speaking of the wacky weed specifically. Yeah, that's it.
That's awesome. Because it was so rare and so unusual. And he used a razor blade to cut it.
It looked like a chunk of hash and he would just zip off little, little fragments, then roll
half joints, New York needles, pin joints, whatever you want to call them. And I, I don't know if I
mentioned it on the show earlier, but one of my friends from Chicago came out to Phoenix and
he took one hit on one and he was, it was really hard to pull because they were so, so thin. And
as he did, he fell forward and hit his face against a brick wall, broke his glasses and
went unconscious on the ground. I didn't really, I've, I smoked it quite a few times, but when I
did, I had to sit down. It was the ultimate couch luck. I didn't want to go hiking or do anything,
but for him and two other friends in Tempe, it made them more normal. The more they smoked,
the more that they could do stuff. For me, it was like green kryptonite for me and red
kryptonite for them. Yeah. That's, I've seen that a lot with like, I have what I consider like,
at least typically I'm reversed from what most people feel when they smoke cannabis. Like I,
I smoke more longer flowering, narrow leaf type plants to relax. Whereas pure Afghanis,
even things like skunk one don't agree with me at all. They make me paranoid and, and it's just
not, it gives me this nasty, funky feeling, you know? It's weird how different brain chemistry
can really, really flip all that. And I noticed from going, you know, as a young man smoking to
being, you know, 41 now how weed affects me is drastically different than it did when I was
young. And I don't think it's just the level of potency in the weed, more like hormones and
things, how we, how our brain chemistry and body chemistry changed. I think it just has such a
drastic effect. And that's one thing I found to hold true with a lot of males is that when they're
young, cannabis affects them a lot different than when they're older. And when people are older,
um, they tend to, to experience the paranoia and stuff that they didn't have when they were younger.
Hormones run everything, man. Yeah. Your hormones are different at different stages of your life.
Yeah. I, um, we actually, especially for Matt.
Yeah. And not that it just started his new hormone regimen. So I'm really proud of him for that.
You know, I mean, I, I will say that, uh, at, at my age, which I'm, you know, in my mid forties,
I G constantly wants me to regrow my hair, get more testosterone, become more manly. Uh, you know,
just started getting the TRT ads. Yeah. The targeted ads they have for people who are 46.
You're like, Oh man, they really are. They really are trying to make it seem like I'm
falling apart. I suppose. Don't fight the algorithm. Not so
just slam it. I'll make it. I'll make a couple of points that, you know, when I first started
growing indoor, um, which is how I started because I lived in Chicago and that was like,
that was the only way you could get away with it. The stuff that we were getting from Amsterdam and
all that, it was primarily Indica weed. Right. And so the only sativa weed I really had experience
with when I was young was Mexican, which I didn't think was all that potent. But I do remember
like after a few years of growing, um, asking some of my connections to get me like the best
green Mexican that they could, because I found that like, even though it wasn't as nice and it
didn't taste as good as the stuff we were doing ourselves, it had a completely different buzz
than all of these Amsterdam based heavy Indica strains that we were running indoors. Right.
And I have this clear memory of, I think it was in 1997 when they released Nebels Hayes
and Nebels Hayes was kind of like the, the haziest or the most sativa thing that had been released
up till that point. Right. Uh, that at least like normal people could get access to. Okay.
And by that point I had made enough friends in Amsterdam that when I went over there and visited,
I got to, I got to try some different things that weren't just from coffee shops, but were
from some collectors. And I clearly remember, I thought about this when Mad Jag was talking,
I clearly remember smoking a pinner joint, um, with the guy and my buddy who had come with me,
three of us. So like, it didn't go very far. And I got so soaring high off this sativa
that it almost felt like air was rushing over my brain. And then when we walked out of his little,
his little flat in Amsterdam, there was about six or seven steps that went down to the,
the cobblestone street or whatever. And I held the railing to make sure I was going to make it
down those steps safely. Right. Like I felt like, and you know, at this time it was 1997. I was,
I was in my early twenties and I had this clear memory of, of like looking down the stairs and
being like, I better hold the railing, you know, because I was nervous about like my sense of
balance, my equilibrium, where my head was at, would my head, would my feet obey my mind?
You know, had, have we broken that chain where my legs and arms aren't going to obey what's
coming out of my mind and tell them what to do. Um, and that was not something that I had
experienced before. And all of a sudden I had this memory of like, maybe some of these older guys
talking about this like psychedelic or these trippy experiences off sativas, maybe they weren't
bullshitting because for a minute it was just completely outside the realm of my experience
with all of this, like very heavy Afghan or at best Afghan sativa weed that leaned Afghan. Right.
Um, cause people weren't buying and growing pure sativas then, you know, all the, all the,
all the seed banks and stuff, you know, we're basically growing, you know, mostly predominantly
indica leaning stuff. Cause that was easy and chunky and small and manageable.
Hard fat. Yep.
Yeah. It just, it just, it, and so that's what you got, you know?
Um, so this, this, this weed that, this weed that hits you like that was that you're saying
this was a pure sat? No, it was Neville's Hayes, which is, okay. Neville's Hayes was, uh, you know,
it's basically the two, the two Hayes males that Neville had, um, with a little bit of
Northern lights in there. Yeah. Depending on if you believe Sam more Northern lights in there.
I mean, whatever, whatever the case may be, it was, it was, I mean, that cut still exists.
That cut still gets grown and sold in Amsterdam. Um, but it was, you know, some people described
it as racy. Some people got paranoid. Some people, I literally got, you know, I know you said you
don't like trippy, but I got tracers in my vision, uh, where my vision was altered and, you know,
I was concerned about my legs of baying my mind, you know, like as a 22 year old, I didn't usually
grab the railing to like go down six or seven steps, but I did. I think, I think, I think that's
basically the peak of, of Neville's work right there. You know, that I got smoked out by a buddy
right about that same time period of some stuff that, that had the exact same effects. I mean,
we're sitting there and I don't like bongs, but you know, he, he smoked me out on this bong.
And I was like, I, I, after I coughed my head off, I sat on the couch and I just went into like
silent mode, you know, for, for 30 minutes. And I know you've seen this before, you know, I mean,
where I sat there not saying a word and, uh, just like freaking out until finally I was like,
I got to go. And everybody's like, okay, see ya, you know, and I walk out of this place and I'm,
I'm, I'm stumbling, you know, it's like head spinning. I got to go down these stairs and I'm,
I'm grabbing onto that railing for, for my dear wife, trying to try and drive home. I get lost.
I'm like, you know, three miles from my house, get totally lost, right. On roads that I've driven
a thousand times. Um, you know, wind up calling into work and say, Hey, um, I'm so messed up.
I call in on the sick line and I'm like, Hey, uh, I, I, I'm lost. I leave a recording
for my coworkers, tell them I'm not going to be in today. I took a wrong turn and I don't know
where I am. You know? Um, so I mean, that's to me, that is his legacy. He, you know, and this
is the same stuff probably that turned into the Cuban black and all those other famous NL
hazes out there. You know, this is the kind of thing that came from Neville's peak.
It was kind of the stuff that he called at the beginning of his Holy grail project,
because he regretted like by the time that he realized how special Hayes was, he had already
lost several of the plants that he had gotten from seed because they were just such an enormous pain
in the ass to grow and keep. Um, and he was, you know, he, he only had the two males and then he
lost the one male in 89. And so he ended up out of the six or seven plants he had, he only ended
up with one probably by 90 or 91. And so the Neville's Hayes was his, his attempt to cross
two of them together with a little bit of indica in it. And then that was going to be the basis for
his project. Um, and it was going to be a private breeding, I believe, but then it was just so good.
They decided to release it to the public. People underestimate the impact of that NL five that
Neville made those crosses with, you know, it's kind of like a turbo or a supercharger on an
engine for that sativa, you know, it cranked up the quantity of cannabinoids in, in, in any
particular nugget. Um, just because the resin production was way up the, you know, um, if,
if you ran it in a lab like, um, like people do today and you compare the Hayes with, you know,
the NL hybrid, you'd find just a much higher level of cannabinoids simply because there's
more resin there per gram. Um, and, and that, that NL five was, you know, the peak of,
of his, his NL breeding work, you know, it was the best plus the best, um, you know, to say that
it's just a little bit of NL, um, maybe that's all it took, but I consider it, you know, to be a real
multiplier on the effect of those Hayes. We recently, we recently learned some other stuff
that, um, kind of dovetails into maybe something we can talk about a little bit
involving some of the pearls and girls and early stuff. Um, and it was that Neville's,
apparently one of his main things he wanted to do was rework the early pearl and find that
early pearl or early girl that he had originally encountered. And I always thought that was
interesting because I always thought the NL five and the NL work was probably the peak of what he
considered his like Afghani type work. But I guess at the end he was chasing the pearl. Yeah.
Not so he was working with a lot of Mexicans. Yeah. Right. Um, and I guess one of the reasons
why he was working with a bunch of different Mexicans that he could get was because that
early girl and early pearl, he loved the sweetness of the flavor on the high so much.
He was trying to find it again. And I think it was one of those things that he thought would be
common, you know, and then he lost it and couldn't get it back type of type of gig, you know, because
the era had passed or whatever. But, um, some of it, some of his associates in, um, that were very
close to him in the last 10 years of his life have said that one of his main projects, in addition to
like the sativa side of, you know, of the Holy grail, extreme sativas was also like bringing
back some of those, the Mexican memories that he had. Um, and that was what was captured in
because early girl and early pearl are basically predominantly Mexican with a little bit of Afghan
and he was infatuated with it. He really was, he wanted the flavor and the buzz of certain
kinds of Wahakans that he had. He wanted that back again, really badly.
Apparently.
Well, I can't blame him. I mean that, that early, early pearl, you know, at its best is just
delicious smoke with a great effect, you know what I mean? But the problem he probably ran into was
that, you know, it was by the time he started trying to recapture it, it was damn near impossible
to find it coming out of Mexico. The cartels had taken control of, of the area. And so,
who grew what? And I mean, if you tried to take your stuff through the plazas and I don't know
this, right? This is just from reading stuff and other people who know, know it firsthand or
whatever. I don't, but from what I understand, if you know, if you were a small producer,
cranking out a family heirloom on, on your little piece of land and tried to,
tried to sell it, move it across the border or whatever, you, you might get in some very
serious problems with the cartel. They, they kept a lock on this stuff and hybrids were the order of
the day. So he must've had a very hard time. And I know from reading his posts on, on, you know,
Mr. Nice that, you know, that he was, and his catalog also, you know, he thought early pearl
needed, if you read what he, what he put in, in his catalog, he said that early pearl needed skunk
number one. And he was, he, he crossed it to skunk and then was doing it again
to try and get it where he wanted. I think those were probably mainly commercial and, you know,
goals, breeding goals that he was pursuing instead of connoisseur goals. But I guess later he
learned to appreciate what was unique about the pearl. And, and, but I guess he didn't have much
to go back to after that. I was going to say, I think he knows a little bit about the pearl,
the human condition which is Neville regretted that he didn't have all of those varieties that
he had in the eighties and early nineties later on in life when he was much, much better at what
he was doing and that they were almost wasted on him when he was young, just trying to figure it
out, which I think is kind of what we all think in a lot of ways about ourselves, you know, it's
like, oh, I wish I could have done that with what I know now, you know, back then I was just stumbling
along. But that would be interesting. So Mad Jag, when you were getting all that skunk one,
and you were talking to Rob about that kind of stuff was, I know you said that's all you got,
but did he talk to you about some of those other lines that they had and the different stuff that
they were messing with? You mentioned he brought like a whole selection of weed that put you on
the floor. Indeed. So I'd be, did he, did he mention any early girl or early pearl or any
Mexican or Pollyanna or anything like that that you can remember? No, just Afghan number one.
That was the other thing. He brought a few packets of that. And I, I look back through notes and
his skunk number one packets were two big gelatin capsules with 25 seeds each. I thought it was
50. So each pack was a hundred, but it was 50 was the whole pack. And he, I don't know, he,
I was so inspired from reading about this in high times. That's why I contacted him.
When he finally did come the second year out to our place, came out to Arizona and he stayed for
a day or two, he had his personal stash and this little zip pouch with individual vials and he had
pre-rolled joints. So he didn't, he had a tie joint, he had a Colombian, he had this and that.
He probably had what you're speaking about, Northern Lights and various things. As I remember,
he had like 10 different samples in there. I took one hit of the Colombian that he had, and I just
laid on the floor and listened to him talk for an hour in my living room. I, I couldn't focus
really. I don't remember anything. Your honor. I, you know, I don't remember.
I'd like to get back though, to the questions you were talking or the
concepts you were talking about. Okay. So trying to compare one of these massively
powerful highs that we all have experienced at different times in our life. What about
comparing them to edibles today? And I don't mean edibles that are just pure THC.
There are some edibles that our friends make, or you might make, or I've made like
cobs or cookies, cornbread, that it's, it's full spectrum because you use the whole plant.
You're not just trying to get high THC edibles, which I find not that exciting.
They sell them at all the different dispensaries and rec stores now.
Yeah. The hash edibles that are just mostly THC, like extract edibles.
Yeah. But, but I've had cornbread
from my friends who live 30 miles from here down the dirt road. And they said, they gave me a
square of cornbread and they said, make sure you only eat a quarter of it. Don't eat more than a
quarter of it. So I took a quarter of it. It was delicious. It was delicious.
I took a quarter of it and cut it in half and took an eighth. And the next day I was in the morning,
I thought, well, this will make my day mellow at work. I started driving to work and I got about
one mile away and I realized I couldn't really drive very well. And if I got pulled over,
there's no way I'd be able to hide where I was at. And there was weed that powerful back in the
days, you know, in 69, 70 and 71, 72, that you could take a few puffs and get to that point
where you had to hold the railing or you would fall. So what, what Raho and Natsu were talking
about, I know we've all experienced that. So now I, I like edibles also because they last all day
and you save your throat. You have to have, you know, a special ability. I don't like to drive
if I'm that high, that's for sure. But if you have a designated driver, wow, go to the art museum,
go to parties, go to great restaurants and have, and hold the railing on the way in. And
you know, a lot of, a lot of ex opiate addicts will message me because they know I've been through
that and I openly talk about it, you know, and they'll message me and say, did you ever find a
strain that gave you the same effects or similar effects to the high of opiates? Anything that was
a good replacement for that. And the one thing I could say is the closest I've ever gotten was
edibles. And, you know, it was a similar experience where someone gave me a tray of brownies,
like from Humboldt. Then he's like, Hey man, really just only eat like an inch by an inch
thing. And I, you know, I was a fat kid. So I was like, this is delicious. I'm gonna eat it all.
And I was seriously high drooling for two, three days, like not non-functional, barely alive. And
I'd have to say that is the closest I've ever been to just a whole opiate nod off was an extreme
case of weed brownies. So for those struggling with that, that might be an option edibles. I mean,
it could take you far and put you out for sure. For sure. The closest I would have to compare to
that in current times is last year, a friend gave me a bottle of, of coffee liqueur from Starbucks
that he had poured cannabis oil in that he had made. And I said, well, how do you make the oil?
And he said, it was not really oil as an extract. He just took fresh buds and boiled them and,
and boiled them down to, it became more of a syrup and he poured it into that. And I said, well,
how much, what's a dose? And he said, I don't know. He said, I just took a swig of it one day
and I laid down and I didn't move off the couch all day. So I went, wow. And I still have it in
my fridge. It was awesome. It is. It's the closest to, to, um, have to say it to morphine than
anything I've experienced in the cannabis world. It's takes away pain. It makes you relaxed. Um,
you, you can't do much. That's the sad part of it, but you can very disabling at times.
Watch a movie. It creates, I'm not the most biggest chemistry guy, but supposedly it creates
something in your bloodstream called THC 11, which is different than THC nine. Um, and it is my
kryptonite, uh, in the sense that, uh, when you were like, Oh, it lasts all day. Like, well,
that's the negative for me. It's like, I'm, I'm stuck all day. Uh, and, uh, you know, like I'm a
dad. So my, my ability to just like have days where I have no responsibility and I have to do nothing
are pretty few and far between. Right. I have had cops behind me, mad jag, where I had eaten too
many brownies over Thanksgiving or something at a friend's house. And I thought when I got, if I got
pulled over, my only saving grace would be like, I'll take a breathalyzer right now because I
hadn't drank any alcohol and I'm like, let's just get it out of the way. I'll blow a zero zero. Of
course I haven't done anything, but if they would have asked me to get out and like lift my leg and
touch my nose or walk in a straight line, I would have been doomed. Like no chance I would have been
able to walk that straight line. Like all of my motor functions, it messes with my, it makes me
feel drunk in the sense that it, it messes with my equilibrium and it gives me a little bit of the
spins and it makes me feel warm. And, uh, I have a bunch of friends that tell me that eventually
it'll feel pleasant. And I'm like, well, how many times do I have to feel unpleasant before the
pleasant start? Cause right now I'm just getting a bunch of unpleasant, you know? So when do I
break through to the fun part? In a similar vein, a friend of mine was driving up from Phoenix
to the Verde Valley where I lived at that time. And he said he was driving along and all of a
sudden his car started going and then he woke up, he had fallen asleep at the wheel and he was going
20 and fourth gear and the car, you know what it does? And he's on the interstate,
he's on the interstate, but luckily at night the traffic was very small and he didn't crash and
die, which today you couldn't do that. No, you couldn't do that. There'd be a car behind you
that would just cream into you. Yeah. Yeah. That's hilarious. But it is interesting cause
some people really, obviously a lot of people like edibles because they're sold all over the place and
at dispensaries and things like that. I can smoke, I don't want to say I can smoke any amount
of weed, but I can smoke a lot of different kinds of weed and be fully functional if need be with my
day. And edibles, they can take me out and be like, well, all I'm doing is a whole lot of nothing
until this feeling goes away. I have two daughters, but they're grown. So I, at this point
in my life, I can spare a day if I want to. Yeah, no, I have a bunch and they're all needy
at this stage of their life. So it's rare that they don't need anything from me.
That's funny. I'm sure you appreciate what a great part of your life this is,
not so, and I'm really happy for you. Oh yeah, no, it's killer. I have four daughters,
you know, and three of them are still at home and they're all, yeah, I mean, they all still like me.
So that's a positive. I might be a glorified Uber and ATM at this point, but you know, yeah, I mean,
you know, it's good. It's not everybody likes having kids, but I do. Yeah. I'll stick with dogs.
Dogs for me. You know, honestly,
there's a, there's a weird thing about my life. Go ahead.
This delay is horrible. Sorry guys. You had a picture up on the screen for a while. It's
that bud with the yellow bandana. Yeah, there it is. So yeah, I figured you probably wanted me to
talk about that. That's yes, I did. Yes, sir. Okay. Okay. So that's from, that's from my 1982
season. I had, you know, the tie and all that stuff was, was the year or year before the two,
two years before 1980, 81, I grew some seed that a friend of mine brought me from California,
hitchhiked around Mendo for, you know, several months and collected,
collected seeds every time he got a ride. Cause everybody there was a grower. They all had weed,
they'd smoke and he, they'd give him the seeds. So that particular plant came from that collection.
And it was actually on his way home from, from California to, for Christmas. And he,
for Christmas and he stopped at the, at the SFO airport, he walked by a guy smoking a joint in a,
in a Corvette. And he just kind of walked up to him and gave him the smile and the guy invited
him to smoke with him. And he wound up picking up these seeds. And so, you know, the names of
the stuff he brought home and gave me, he would collect these seeds and then bring them and give
them to me. And this one of course, got the very intuitive and descriptive name of plane weed,
because, you know, he was about to hop on a plane. Yeah. But, you know, he didn't really know,
you know, besides the names he would give me for these seeds, which you actually had a story
attached that the, this, you know, there was never really any knowledge about what,
what was in it. He wasn't quite the connoisseur that I was and didn't, didn't read as much stuff
as I did. So, you know, it was kind of up to me to figure out what it was after we grew it and
smoked it. And this particular plant was, was an F1 hybrid with Thai and some sort of Afi or
Pakistani, um, wide leaf. And, uh, it was amazing. You know, that I talked about being an in-school
suspension and writing about the Thai effect that I, that I was experienced a couple of years
before. Well, that, that analysis, that introspection that came from, um, from that
exercise came, you know, had become just, you know, locked in my mind. That's Thai weed, right?
That's me. That was what I knew it to be. And so when I sat down with this, with this thing,
started smoking, I recognized it was like halfway, you know, the effects were literally,
you know, half of the effect of Thai weed with, with this, um, kind of sedative effect of, uh,
of the Thai, of the Afi or Pakistani. I always thought it was Pakistani because the leaves look
from, uh, and I don't know what your guys' thoughts are on it, but, you know, like when you guys were
talking about Thailand and Thai having like, you know, not all of it, but like a, a significant
portion of it had a lot wider leaves than Colombian, right. Was that something that, um,
do you, I, I always wondered like, was that, um, you know, do you think that Colombian and Thai,
like, do you think they took the same amount of time? Uh, because I always look at like leaf
width as basically like a genetic thing on like the plant, the, you know, their sun panels, right?
So it's like, how much sun does the plant get? And if it needs more sun, it gets wider leaves
to capture it. And if it gets needs less, it's a little thinner, right? Because it doesn't need to
as much, um, uh, you know, and, and Matt and I and others, we've had some like long talks about how,
like, if you look at Afghans, if you look at like stuff from like the, the low elevations,
um, a lot of that stuff is like your traditional super fat leaf Indica's.
But then if you go up into like the, the mountains areas, like the Hindu Kush
type type regions, those Indica's are much thinner leafed. Um, I don't know if that was like UV or
the sun was stronger, or they just didn't need to have as big solar panels. Um, but what percentage,
like, I'm maybe you don't know, but like, would you say that like much wider leaves than
Columbians or Panamanians was like a fairly distinctive trait of a lot of ties that you saw?
I didn't see enough time.
Yeah, me either. You know, I mean, I grew very little of it. What I, what I saw was,
you know, pictures of the wide leaf tie, um, and people described it, but I, that I never had any
experience with that. But the phenomenon you're talking about, you know, wider leaf at lower
elevation or, or, you know, related to elevation, I always thought that the width of the leaf had
something to do with transpiration, you know, and maybe if they're in arid environments or
humid environments that, you know, that would affect, but honestly, I don't know.
Lebanese tended to be more narrow than like, say a broad leaf Afghani. I do know that much. And,
um, I think they're in similar elevations. So I think it has something to do with transpiration
a lot, you know, humidity, stuff like that. Yeah. Or lack thereof. Yeah, exactly.
Exactly. You're protecting it. I mean, uh, you know, it, it, uh, I mean, I was actually talking
to somebody from Kentucky, uh, Mad Jag, who was, uh, like really getting into like your experiences
with, um, with, you know, on previous, uh, shows that we've done. And he was talking about how,
like in Kentucky, they could water a patch about your size with a few hundred gallons,
because it was so humid there that the soil stayed moist. And you didn't really need that much water
to keep the soil wet. And he was like, man, this guy's out there in the desert and he's pouring
thousands and thousands of gallons down there just to give the plant enough to drink, you know,
but by the time he came back and I could do the same size patch with like 5% of the water,
right. And that that's, I, I basically told them, it's probably like, you know, you grow,
you're growing in a humid forest and he's growing in an arid desert, like environment to some degree.
How about people who live in Hawaii or Jamaica where in the rainy areas where it rains every day
for an hour, every afternoon, you know, they, they don't irrigate at all. They, it's all just natural.
Yeah. They don't have to irrigate maybe with climate change. That's starting to differ.
But traditionally my friend in Columbia, he, he once went down to the West coast where they used
to ship from and it rained so much that the biggest problem with growing, they grew tons and tons of
weed, but to dry it, they had to hang huge tarps up like massively tense, like circus tents almost
to, to be able to dry it. There was no way around it, you know, and it would probably take a lot
longer to dry in that humidity. Nature really, you know, it, it presents, you know, different
benefits and different challenges for sure. You know, I mean, in the, in the Midwest where I'm
from, you know, they grow a lot of corn and soybeans. They don't irrigate it at all. They're
completely dependent on the weather to come along and just rain on their crops. Where in the West
coast where I live now in California, it's all irrigation. If you can't bring water to it,
you can't grow. It doesn't matter what kind of crop you're doing. I grew up in Chicago,
20 miles West of Chicago. I grew up and my friend was one of my best friends one summer, got a job
with a company that was eradicating cannabis that was growing wild along the railroads,
basically since World War II when they were making rope out of it. And he had a map of all
these spots that they were going to go out to, to destroy. And we would go there first. And one
time it wasn't far from my home, it was just growing and we had never noticed it along the
railroads and we harvested like 20 pounds of this stuff and, and dried it. And you could smoke an
entire joint and not get high. Oh yeah. We called it, we called it pretendica. In fact, you know,
this is obviously much later than that, but I would, sometimes I got bamboozled when I was
growing up in Chicago and I would buy these very expensive ounces that were frosty and green and
juicy. And I was like, oh man, I'm really getting it. And then we'd smoke and smoke and smoke. And
we'd be like, this isn't working at like even as good as the Brown Mexican. This is really weird.
I'm not getting high. And I had never heard of CBD. I didn't know what it was, but it was ditchweed.
That's what it was. It was just, it was just ditchweed, you know? Yeah. They actually,
there was a thing called a hemp for victory or whatever, where during world war II,
they grew millions of acres in the Midwest of hemp for, you know, everything from, you know,
ropes and sails and, and, you know, duffel bags and all kinds of stuff for the war effort.
And then as soon as world war II ended, they made it illegal again. But after growing that
many seeded crops it basically permanently in Indiana and Illinois, some Wisconsin, some Kansas,
that kind of thing. It was just kind of a permanent thing. And the government would go
out there and collect money and they would go and eradicate all this, like not weed,
but it looked like weed. Yeah.
You know, and so they were protecting society from something that wouldn't work.
I pre-rolled a hundred joints of this and hitchhiked to California. It was the first
time I'd been to California and two guys picked me up in Utah in their Volkswagen. And I begged
them to give me a ride. They took me all the way to California was like 1200 more miles.
And in exchange, I gave them the hundred joints and I said, this is not very good weed. And I
told them the whole story and they said, no problem. We're going to sell it at the high
school and they'll buy anything. So I got my ride and they got a hundred joints and that was it.
All right. So that 82 crop, you know, I wound up with that, that tie Afghani or tie Pakistani
plain weed. And, you know, the smoke told the tale. You could absolutely feel the exact same
cerebral introspective kind of thoughts, surfing kind of, you know, floating from,
from thought to thought. But it had this sedative effect. It, you know, it,
it, it made you sleepy and, you know, the taste was, was amplified. I'm not going to talk about
the tie turps, but, but, you know, there was a, the citrus that was mixed in with, with the tie
from the Indica and the hashiness that was just delicious. It was honestly, it was maybe one of
the best plants I'd ever smoked. And if I had it right now, I'd, I'd hang up right now so that I
could just smoke myself into a, into a oblivion. But, you know, that, that year was pretty amazing.
82, we had started off in a whole different state and wound up having a brush with the law that I
kind of fast talked our way out of. And we, we came back home with a travel trailer filled
with our plants. And my two partners who I was growing with, you know, after, after things kind
of went bust, they, they'd had enough. They, they didn't want to try and do it back, back at home.
So they said, you can have the plants. And I spent, I spent some time trying to find a place to grow.
You know, that's always the hardest part. You make the wrong decision and you wind up behind bars,
you know, your life ruined. So some, some friends of friends wound up coming to the rescue with a
place along some power lines. And we, we, you know, hauled the plants out there. And then for
the rest of the summer, I did like 99% of the work, you know, raising these things, this,
this collection of, of seed lines from Northern California that, you know, original, original
stuff, each, each line different, you know, one of them looked like what today we'd call Afghani
number one. Another one looked like, that was from Mount Shasta that, you know, they called,
they called Kush. And it looked like what we know, what we think of today when we say Williams Wonder,
it just amazingly consistent morphology of the plant, every, every leaf, just like carbon
copies of the other, the symmetry of the branches and the nodes and the flowers, just like these
monstrous freaking balls at the end of, you know, on, on every node, it was gorgeous, gorgeous plant.
So, you know, it was a, it was, it was a season of a lifetime right there. And unfortunately,
somebody, and you never, you know, you never really find out who did it, but somebody wound
up stealing half the crop. I showed up to water them one day, you know, probably two or three
weeks left to go and show up to water them and half the plants are gone, right? Who steals half
the plants, you know? But when you walk into something like that, the first thing you're
thinking is, holy shit, they're probably like watching me right now, because I just interrupted
them while they were stealing all the plants. But, you know, that, that turns into, it's time
to harvest everything right now. And, you know, you take what you've got left. But yeah, that,
that plain weed was really something special. And it, those, those genetics turned into the
foundation of what I did for like the next, the next six years. You know, I wound up growing,
growing my own F generations of, of, you know, the, the best aphes and different hybrids that
I'd made for a couple of years. And then I was like, you know what, if I'm going to do this,
this is what I want to do for a living. You know, I want to be a grower, I want to be a breeder,
I want to be the best. And kind of like, you know, what Matt, what inspired Matt Jagg to,
to, you know, brand his stuff and go in the canyon and document what he did, you know,
it was all very, very intentional. But at the same time, these days, it just seems so,
you know, almost, almost naive and innocent, you know, that just anything seemed possible. And,
you know, the idea that you could, you could be a pot grower for a living and, and, you know,
be in High Times Magazine, like Matt Jagg was, it was, it was pretty exciting for young kids. So,
you know, I went out to Mendo, I made arrangements with friends and connections and wound up there,
you know, in the hills for, for the summer. And, you know, one of the reasons I think they, they,
they let me go out there and join them on the hill was because my buddy told them about my
seed collection, you know, I mean, he had collected all the best stuff from their backyard,
sent it out to the East Coast, I took it, worked it, and was now bringing it back.
They wanted it, you know, they, they knew that it was the good stuff. So, plus, I think he kind of
portrayed me as some sort of, you know, young mad scientist that was gonna, you know, teach me
something. But, you know, when I got out there, it was all about digging holes and,
and shutting up and working. And that was, that was, it was hard, you know,
being away from home and everything. I missed my girlfriend. But, you know, that, that just
didn't work out. The partnership got very tense. I was out there for almost three months before,
you know, it was time, I had to go. And luckily, you know, while I was out there,
I went to a July 4th picnic at, at Bill Kreutzman's house, you know, drummer for the
Grateful Dead. It was pretty fucking amazing. 1985, basically everybody at this, at this party
was a grower. And, you know, my, my partner had rented a Mustang from the local car rental place
to go to this party. It was a big deal. He, you know, collected a bunch of party materials for
us to enjoy when we went. Didn't really tell me where it was or what it was gonna, what it was
gonna be until we were sliding sideways down, down the gravel road off the mountain to get there.
You know, it was amazing. Showed up, you know, did, did my substances and,
you know, it was, it was, it was pretty, it was trippy.
It was trippy. You know, there was music and big, big loudspeakers and giant barbecue grills and
growers all around me. And I didn't know anybody. My, my boys and my boys that I came with
disappeared as soon as we got there. And, you know, basically I just kind of roamed around until,
until it got late at night. And it turns out, you know, my, my partner ran into one of the guys that
had provided the seeds that, that were my first pure indica in 1981. And I ran into him and it
was like, I desperately wanted those seeds back because when I made my, my F2s or whatever,
I made a bad choice on what female I dusted. And I, you know, I put it on the big, tall,
giant indica instead of the little short squat ping pong ball,
hash plant indica. And it turned out that that was like, you know, that little short one was
the once in a lifetime plant. And so every year after that, I was growing these seeds out and
every time, you know, as they grew and flowered, I was like, damn it. You know, why didn't I dust
that other one? But, uh, so I, when I saw this guy, I was like, oh man, I'll get the, get the
original stuff. I can get that short plant back again. But he was, he was some sort of cokehead
or something by that point. He, uh, he didn't, he lost it. He'd completely lost the line. It
turned out he'd stolen the line from his mother to begin with. Probably a classic, classic Mendo
story there, but I'm sure I'm just having a hard time thinking anybody would want to listen to this
much of us talk. You'd be, you'd be shocked, dude. We used to think that same thing all the
time. And we would debate heavily on like how not to bore the pants off of people. And because you
got to realize too, that like most people, um, you know, most people like they'd never lived in
Mendo. They never did outdoor. They never did gorilla. They never did any of this stuff. They
came on in an era where it was Instagram and it was this and like, so it's like a time capsule
and there's not even really that many good places to go read about this stuff. And like we were
talking about at the beginning of the show, most people that are talking about this stuff are
trying to sell themselves. Right. They're trying to promote something. They're not actually
interested in the history. They're interested in a narrative that promote something they're
currently into. So, um, you know, it, uh, it does, it does, we talk about that all the time.
How are we not going to bore people to death? Um, like I said, Rahul and I talked for three
hours this week and it was like, there was zero planning involved. It was basically just like
friends chatting about nerd content. So we could have a little bit more focused chat, I'm sure
on, on subjects, but you know, whatever. Thank you. That's a plan. Thanks guys.
Awesome. Thank you guys, of course, for your time and everything. And I'll get all this edited
together and banged out and I appreciate it, man. All right. Great talking. All right. Hit me up
anytime either of you. Okay. Well, have a good to both of you. You too, guys.
Want to sit at the table with the syndicate? Check out our Patreon and our link tree or
description below. Our merch site is officially live. We have all sorts of shirts, hoodies,
and goodies to sort you out and shipping is super fast. And most importantly, the quality
is top notch. I've been saving old designs for years for this purpose. So please check it out.
Syndicategear.com. We also have an underground syndicate discord where we get together and solve
old strain history together daily. It's an amazing community of learning away from IG and it's an
amazing resource for old catalogs and knowledge. We hope you join our union of breeders and growers.
Come check it out. Breeders Syndicate Update. Not only is our merch store up at syndicategear.com,
but all episodes will remain free. But what we need from you is interaction. If you're watching
the show for your first time, kick back and enjoy it. If you like the show, feel free to like it.
But if it's your second viewing, we ask a gentle person's agreement that you click the subscribe
button. It costs you nothing, but it helps us tremendously with the sneaky YouTube algorithm.
Leaving comments, telling not to his voice lulls you into a trance works as well. We hope you take
the time to do this. We try to put out the best possible shows for you we can and want to build
this community. Thanks again from all of us at the Breeders Syndicate family.
