What
Welcome to Breeder Syndicate. I'm here with Jay from Next Generation Seeds, formerly of Federation Seed Bank.
Thank you for coming on the show, brother.
Well, thanks for having me.
You're someone we've wanted to talk to for a long time. We have not covered BC in super depth.
And you're one of the people that was super integral in that scene, responsible for most of, at least, maybe,
you're responsible for bringing it to seed, most of what is still being used today from the BC area, I should say.
And I'd love to talk with you about some of that. Maybe start with the early Federation time and maybe a little bit before that
and talk about what got you into weed, what Canada was like when you got into weed, all that. Yeah.
Yeah, well, Canada, as you know, is a big country like the US and we have vastly different cultures, depending on where you live in Canada.
And I grew up on the Canadian prairies in a very conservative community. And our weed was hard to get.
It was very expensive and you had to deal with shady people. So our dream as a young stoner growing up in Manitoba
is to go to the West Coast where all the good stuff came from. So when I moved out to Vancouver,
I just immersed myself into it immediately. Just tried to learn how to grow. And I was fortunate enough to get a job at Mark Emery's hemp BC.
It was called at the time. Oh, wow. Yeah. And I was just hired as the kid in the back, as the carpenter, building things,
wiring up the grow kits, building hydroponic systems. And that was my first year just getting to know growers all throughout British Columbia and the West Coast.
What year did you say that was? Oh, that would have been 95, I believe. Awesome. Yeah, 95.
And I spent about half of six months to a year doing that. And of course, as soon as I could, I started my own grow up. And together with Mike from Federation, me and him did that together.
I would just collected as many clones as we could get our hands on. Yeah. I noticed a lot of the people in BC were so spoiled that they could, they could, they would drop, take a really good clone and then not keep mothers of it
because they can just get buy another tray of drinks for the next crop because everybody had strains. And me as somebody where it's extremely rare, I just gathered everything I get my hands on.
And within a year, I probably had over 60 different mother strains going and then testing them and dropping the ones that were shit and keeping the good ones as you do.
And then Mike and I just started Federation. That only lasted with me about a year and a half. Yeah. And we went our separate ways after that. I started Next Generation right away. Yeah.
And moved to Vancouver Island away from the city. Got myself a place in the country and nice farm. Yeah, it's got into a really hardcore ever since.
I was just, I was just a collector of strains. I was obsessed with collecting.
A lot of us when we get into breeding, like, especially with me, I know I dove in headfirst. I wanted, I wanted to see everything, you know, like collected moms kept like hundreds of moms of everything and it took a long time to start sorting through this stuff, but you have that excitement and vigor at the beginning of just, I want everything. I need to see it all.
So yeah, what were some of the ones like the very first clones you started getting?
Well, we had a few like the sweet pink grapefruit, Romulan, from Romulan Joe. I worked with Romulan Joe for a while. And some Hawaiian sativas that came through Mr. G man there from Vancouver Island Seed Company. He had a lot of good crosses that are phenomenal. In my opinion, he's one of the most underrated breeders from back in the day.
Can we talk about him for a quick sec, just to give him a little bit of shine because that's someone like even I, this far in, I didn't know how integral Mr. G was into all of it. The whole Vancouver, not just Vancouver Island specifically, but the BC scene, how much of his genetics played a role in creating the larger supply?
Yeah. And a lot of people, well, he's an old timer. He's very, very quiet, very private. So he's connected with all kinds of people and he just kept his head down and did good work. And a lot of his clones and cuts got passed around and he would make, sometimes make a lot of crosses that he never himself, never had time to grow. So he'd give it to other growers, here, test these out, test these out.
And we received some good seeds. The original Hawaiian sativa came from him.
Wow.
The Burmese, he had a beautiful Burmese. I know a few other growers have copied his Burmese.
Is he a source for the Burmese that went around BC?
I believe so.
Like Lieberman was using all those guys?
Yeah, I can't say a hundred percent.
Sure.
But he was the first one that I know that had it.
Okay.
And he had it before, I believe, before a reefer man had it. Yeah. And he was the source of the grandparents of the original godbud and a lot of those varieties.
And that's what I bred. I had my grape god cross, but I didn't breed it with the grape god clone. I bred it with the parents of the grape god.
So there's some confusion with that.
Mine's slightly different than the, from the godbud.
Yeah.
A little more, a little more fruity, a little more stink to it.
What were the grandparents of the godbud?
Well, there's lots of rumors and there's a lot of confusion, but it was a strain that he called Jiffy Pot.
Okay.
Which I always told him it was not a very good name. You could come up with a better name.
And he already sold many of those Jiffy Pot seeds, even though they were sourced in the Spanish.
Yeah. Names are everything.
Yeah. A few other growers had the clone and they did a few crosses and then it got renamed. Different sex groups of growers named it different things.
Yeah.
After that, some growers called it A-frame, some were just calling it purple skunk.
And then the grandchildren of it, the granddaughter, I guess, is what became known as the godbud.
Oh, okay. And that was via...
The only one I've ever heard of those was the people from Canada have talked to me about the purple skunk.
You know?
Yeah. I think there's different generations or groups of growers. I think there's two different section, different groups of genetics that were both called purple skunk.
Makes sense. It's a very common name.
Yes. It's very experimental.
Anything with purple and skunk. Yeah.
Yeah.
Kind of like purple kush up there. Yeah. Was there an early just single purple kush clone that was brought up there?
Not that was brought up here. I believe reefer man would probably know a lot more about that than me.
He had one of the first purple skunks in the island pink. I believe it was. And I think that was bred out of something that he calls king. The king bud or king.
I had that written down here to ask you about. Yeah. The king.
But I'm just not really too sure. We were in different circles of communities, but we were running to each other quite often. And we actually chat now more than we did back then.
So, yeah.
So we have you going on in and to Federation. You have a little bit of interaction with another person. And how early on did you start interacting with like Romulan Joe and Romulan the clone? First Romulan.
Actually, that was very that was even before we that was the start of Federation seed company. We had a seed company and Romulan Joe. I was just like I say, I was a young kid building hydro equipment and Romulan Joe.
I would just buy my personal smoke off of them every week when I came to town. And he said one weekend he needed help harvesting and moving his crop from Vancouver Island over to the city.
So I went and helped him for the weekend and me and my buddy Mike were talking about starting a seed company and Romulan was all the rave. Yeah.
At the time. And so Romulan Joe sold us the clone for $7,000. We got we got a couple cuts. He just gave us a few cuts. And it was $7,000. And that was our flagship strain that we started with.
Yeah, yeah. And it made a big difference in in the in the world of seeds. I know that was one of the ones I chased really early on. And I don't know that we ever saw the real Romulan pure clone.
I doubt it. Yeah, I doubt it.
I mean, there was so many rumors about that clone and where it came from. And it was very hard back in like the forum days and stuff. And even earlier to determine what was true. You know, there was rumors that like the guy Romulan Joe was actually called Mendocino Joe and came from rings and eyes county and fled to Canada when a bunch of bus went down and there was Canadians that said that was bull.
That was definitely not true. And true. You know, from the 70s. Nope, it's from the 90s. It's from the 40s. There was it was just one of those ones that there was a lot of rumor. And there was very little facts coming out or someone who like knew for sure would come out and just say what needed to be said. So it allowed all these stories to percolate.
And it became extremely legendary.
And Romulan Joe is very secretive. And he just kind of got a kick out of all the stories that go around about it. He just kind of took off now. And I actually seen him a few months ago and stopped by his place for a smoke. And I told them about some of the rumors. I had somebody from the States that breeds Romulan telling the story. And, and I told Joe about this and he just shook his head and laughed.
Yeah, it's not, it's not how it works.
Yeah, I think that person's claiming they bred it or like that it's from their family or some wild. Yeah, yeah. Yeah.
Mendocino Joe's their family members.
One of the, one of the things in cannabis is since we all come out of the shadows, it's very hard to have facts. So people come out with a big story and they want to chat about things. And, you know, sometimes there's opposing stories to it. And sometimes the people, like you said, are just secretive and older and don't care.
Yeah, you know, yeah, it's like, I can tell you a story. What, how about Romulan Joe told me.
He, he was a new grower from Eastern Canada, moved to Vancouver Island, just outside of Victoria. And he was taken under the wing of some of the old timers back then in the, would have been late 80s, late, mid 80s.
But when he first encountered the Romulan, it was a couple older fellows. Now, I think one of them's passed.
And they started off growing. They were Korean war vets. They moved back to Canada into the cannabis and all they had was Mexican and Colombian. And they started trying to breed with that.
And they had very, very little luck, small buds, but they got faster and faster breeding. But it was still basically sativa like the Colombian red and Mexican sativas.
And then in the early 80s, I believe it was 82 or 83, when the first Afghanis started coming over and they crossed out their variety that they'd been working on with an Afghani. And then they did a massive grow out, I believe in 84.
Okay.
It shortened it, made it workable that they could grow in greenhouses. They never really had lights going back then. It was all in greenhouses on the South Island.
And there was a runt of the batch that they kept the cutting of. It was the smallest plant in the room. They said kind of the most finicky as well, as far as pH goes.
But it was so extremely strong. And they kept that cut from 94.
Sorry, pardon me, 84. 1984.
That's amazing.
And they never even actually, the first few years, he said, they never even gave it a name. Never had a name.
That makes sense.
Romulan Joe said in the late 80s, when he was sitting around helping them trim one day, and they're watching TV, trimming, and they're watching Star Trek, and they're started joking about how this stuff will knock, put a dent in your head, just like a Romulan.
And that was when the first got coined as a Romulan. And it just kind of stuck from there.
I love how these names come to be.
That's the story Joe's told me.
That's awesome. That's great.
I can confirm even now I'm doing some grow outs with some Colombian genetics. And I noticed a lot with the structure has absolutely nothing to like the old school sativas.
But the high that you get from that Romulan was like a lot of the different, the couple Colombian reds that I've grown and the Punto Rojo, get the very, very similar smell and high.
But obviously nothing close to the same growth structure. But the flavor really reminds me of that Colombian red that I'm growing right now.
Was the Romulan like a squat little thing?
Very squat.
So it was one of the more Afghani type structure selections?
Yes. And low yield as well. But after we did about five or six back crosses into it, we noticed every time we used our mostly Romulan male on a female of another variety, that smell and potency would come across.
And the structure would follow the female.
And when he did the other way around and used the original Romulan as the female, it was not, it was a lot more unstable. It was a lot of trial and error.
We've actually talked for a long time amongst our crew, like as a running joke, kind of how when you're breeding, you're looking at things and there's all these big, impressive plants that throw the kind of structure and bud you want all over the place.
And then there's this like little runt mutant thing that you think about killing a number of times. And that thing ends up being the clear winner over everything.
And so it's like, it's an ode to runts and it's an ode to like mutants and stuff like that. Because often from a production standpoint, all the qualities you're looking for, you don't find the quality of smoke and effect very often in those.
You find them much more often in the weird ones.
Yeah. I'm shocked they had the foresight to like know to keep the runt. Because like even back then, a lot of the old wives tales were, yeah, kill the unsturdy ones, kill the, you know, as fast as you can get those ones out of there.
You know, as a seedling, then people would be killing the runts. So I think that's awesome. They had the foresight to know that what you see isn't necessarily what you're going to get in the end. It may have other traits that are really amazing.
Especially with indoors. I've learned that as well with indoors. You don't get rid of the runts right away. With outdoors, you're looking for more outdoor vigor. So you'll kind of kill them pretty quickly. But for indoors, nah, you got to wait and see what they can do.
Yeah, we wouldn't have things like OGKB or Urkel, any of the weird stuff, you know, if we didn't keep the runts around the weirdos.
Yeah. I mean, you know, effect is invisible.
Yeah.
And that's kind of one of the weird things about cannabis is, is until you can actually dry it and cure it and smoke it, you really don't know what you have. You don't know if the, if the way it smells translates into the way it tastes. You know, you definitely don't know how, what effect it's going to give you. So you can learn some things by watching, but it kind of takes dried flower or hash to kind of get you to where you want to be with it.
So yeah, to give you the proper feedback, definitely.
We wanted to have rings because he had my, he, he lives actually down the street from me and he has a ton of experience growing your work.
Oh, sweet.
He's a big next generation fan, massive next generation fan.
He's always been a outdoor from seed kind of guy. Not that he doesn't do indoor. But he never really got huge into the clone thing. Although he does keep clones, he always likes growing from seed and breeding every year. So out of the three of us, he probably had the most experience in actually growing out stuff you've made and seeing what he thought of it.
Yeah. I was, I was mainly a federation guy back in the day. I grew up a lot of federation, like the, and that's what I want to go over with you. Some of these, because the number one thing that people were asking, oh, you're going to get, you're going to get someone who knows about federation.
We want to know about these specific strains. So if you want, if I can run through these with you real quick, just say kind of first, first few sentences that come to your head on each. And if you want to go into more detail on any feel free.
Makado.
That was basically our version of the sweet pig grapefruit.
Oh, okay. Very cool.
It was basically our semi, it was an F4 when we released it. F4 backcross. But that, yeah, it's basically the grapefruit.
That's awesome. Dynamite. Is that next generation?
That's next dynamite is next generation. That's what I thought. But when I left federation, I renamed it dynamite instead of calling it Makado or grapefruit because people were upset about if you're using somebody else's name, is it old? You can't call it grapefruit or I'm going to send somebody to visit you type of thing.
Yeah.
And I thought, fine, I'll change the name, but I wrote it in my description. This is our version of the original grapefruit.
Yeah. I mean, what's about the best you can do at that point?
At first, when I released it, instead of calling, I called it grapefruit. And I said, this is the grapefruit first made famous by a breeder, Steve of spice of life. I just, I was giving him credit and letting people know where, and I was kind of naive, I guess.
And he got upset saying, Oh, well, if you're using that name, you owe me money. I'm like, well, sorry. I was just giving you credit for this genetics.
Yeah. Yeah.
So fine, I'll change the names.
So as you learn your way through toe stepping in, in the seed world, there's no written rules. It's like each person has their own rules and you better know it ahead of time or else.
It's interesting because so many name changes happened either from just that very thing where you change seed companies and somebody has a trademark or there's, they get upset about the same name.
Or in some cases, like a little on a little shadier note, uh, seed breeders don't want people to know the origin stock of what they're releasing because they don't want to give credit and they don't want to give a percentage or they don't want to deal with any bull.
So they just like make up their own name and then there you go.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, go ahead.
Yeah. I always like to give credit to where I, how would I created it from? Because everything we have was built on somebody else's work that came before us.
And it's just a matter of letting people know and being honest about it. It was, that was my philosophy behind it. But yeah, there is a lot of people, a lot of strange nowadays, you know, that there's something in there that they're not telling you.
Yeah.
Probably a lot in the States right now.
Yeah. Oh God.
It's, it's been that way for forever. I mean, we've even talked about it, how like in, uh, you know, Neville would just say what things were in Europe and everybody that came after him in Holland kind of obscured things.
And one of the things I want to like Matt and I did like a kind of a two part thing on the history of, uh, of seed banks. And when we got to Canada, we realized we didn't know enough about the internal dynamics to like talk intelligently about it.
But I definitely come from that era where like, say looking at like Mark Emery's magazine, you know, you would open those up and you would see those catalogs and you would see all the traditional Amsterdam stuff that they brought over and we're reselling. But then, you know, there would be, um, you know, there would be all these five or six different new Canadian companies.
And they had all the new hybrids.
Yeah. A lot of the stuff that came over from this, from Holland and Amsterdam, I know some of the guys that were doing all the moving of the seeds over to buy Mark. And you can guarantee that a lot of those genetics are not what it says on the package.
When it comes to the Dutch, when it comes to all this imported Dutch stuff back in those days.
Um, but as far as the Canadian homegrown companies, um, there, there was pretty much straight up and pretty honest. Um, and because people were doing their own thing. There was guys in the Kootenays, there's a Mighty Mike boys, uh, Vancouver Island seed company.
And a few of the others that they were giving you what it says on the package. Um, but not so much with the Dutch stuff. The Dutch would even joke sometimes when they're selling to Canadians in bulk that they just go to the back room and they have their Indica bucket and their sativa bucket.
I've told people this for years. Yeah. People don't believe me when I say this. They, they really did. Like the, like what's closest to Jack Harer. Uh, there's Stunkace. Yeah.
Close enough. They won't know. Yeah.
Yeah. Close enough. They won't know.
Yeah. Yeah. That's it is. It really is how it went.
Or just, you know, like somebody like we've heard people talk about how like Mark Emery would get orders for seeds and have run out of the particular thing that they had requested, but he still wanted to make the money. So he's like, Oh, this is close enough.
Yeah. He'll buy it off one of the local guys and then, uh, and then repackage it.
Yeah. Yeah.
That's pretty typical.
I was never back in those days. Mark Emery never had anything in original packaging because everything was smuggled and none of us seed breeders were organized enough to, to make packaging and it was a risky thing to do back then. It was, you have to do a perfect job that would, you know.
And then keeping the packaging in your house for proof. You know, that's bad.
A lot of people my age would get those magazines and would literally pour over every single blurb about each of the seeds and create lists of dreams that you wanted because it, it was kind of like pre-internet or very early internet as far as forums go. And so information was limited.
And so when the Canadian seed breeders kind of came on the scene, at least as far as access for Americans, all of a sudden there was this plethora of new stuff, you know, that like you were like, Oh, what about this? Or what about that? Or, Oh, I want some of this. And, uh, you know, yeah.
That's beautiful. Purple stuff coming from Canada too. Cause I was a purple fiend and I remember Federation next generation. Um, there was one great white seed co maybe a great North that had a lethal purple or something. Yeah. There's all kinds.
Yeah. White grizzly.
Yeah. Yeah. There's one guy from, um, the Kootenays that used to work with Steve. Uh, he goes by Kootenay OG on Instagram. Want to give him a shout out. He was great, man. He's a great dude. Yeah.
I mean, you know, Matt, there was even rumors. I don't know if I believe them or not, but there's a story in, in Mendocino in my area that some of the early purples that came over and became famous in my neck of the woods had some Canadian origins to them.
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah.
And then, but it was more porous in the nineties and then after the terrorist attacks happened, they really tightened up the border and they really made it more difficult for interaction, you know, especially that five or 10 years after it happened.
See, you know, even mailing seed or getting over the border or exchange of plant matter or what have you, uh, became a lot dicier than it was before, you know, uh,
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, before they were kind of worried about Mexico, but they weren't really worried about Canada. So Canada, the border was kind of like, ah, you know, it's Americans and Canadians are just crossing. And then they took it a little bit more serious because they got worried about people using that like porous nature to get in. And it made, it made the weed game a little different.
I think.
Well, I remember when, uh, I remember, uh, when, uh, back at John Walters was the drug czar right before nine 11 or right around then. Uh, but actually it was before that it was still in the late nineties. Um, and Mark Emery had been getting busted over and over again. And he loved being in the media. He was on CNN news and our all the time.
And, and we get rated all the time. And I remember one year after a second or third bust, um, they came in and the drug czar said, we're taking down these Canadian, um, uh, seed cartels. They called them seed cartels and all the seed cartels in Canada are the equivalent to narco terrorist.
Every seed they sell is a thousand dollars worth of marijuana on the American street. And I remember, uh, Mark Embry, he held a huge party when, uh, when we got called a narco, uh, narco terrorists.
Mark Emory took that as a great compliment and he threw one of the biggest parties we ever had.
Oh my God. You know, I probably would do the same. I probably would do the same, but it would, I would regret it, but I probably would have done the same, like in that area.
There's a reason why a lot of the old timers who are free, um, you know, chose silence and secrecy because, you know, being invisible is a real superpower, you know, uh, once they shine the light on you, it's pretty bright.
Yeah. And one of the old growers like a G man there from Vancouver, I would see a couple, a lot of these guys too. They started back in the eighties where you could be serious time.
Um, and they have, yeah, and they had a lot more other things to lose as well, businesses and family. So, uh, they were just used to not even still, they still don't talk about it.
Yeah. That's how you're conditioned. So do you have more on your list, Matt, that we kind of got sidetracked or whatever, but maybe we could tangent back to it and you could ask celestial temple Sativa.
Ah, yes, that was, that was very nice. It was very, um, supposedly the rumor was it was seeds from Ecuador.
Um, very nice. We crossed that when we first released that it was, uh, our grapefruit F4 male federation. We use that as a, the male that pollinated this equity, just extremely nice strain.
Um, it was lost. It ended up in one of my collections that, uh, ended up being lost in a, in a divorce.
Oh, no.
Yeah. I lost half my seed collection, uh, in the divorce. And that was one of the strains I lost. Um, but yeah, very, very nice trade. If anybody still has genetics of that kicking around, that would be very, uh,
we'll put our ears out. Yeah. We have a long reach with the show. Like you, like we were just talking about early Pearl the other day and someone's like, yeah, I got F2s F6. Yeah. You know, and they're legit ones. So that's, it's kind of neat how that works. Um, sweet BC Cush.
Yeah. Um, I'm not exactly sure where that came from. It came from, um, uh, the Asian community in Vancouver when I got the cut and there's rumors that it was a big bud, but it was just so extremely, uh, I know the best way to best way to get creamy, a creamy, creamy smooth flavor.
It would get you nice and high, but not a confusing. I, I considered it for myself. Daytime smoke. Sure. Like I can still function. I can still do math. I can still drive. It sounds like a silver prototype high. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. But it was nice and rounded bulbous. Um, was it super dense to you? Like mega dense? Yes. Yes. Very dense. Very dense, but not, not the stinkiest drain growing. That's why a lot of the Asian production growers liked it because it would get very huge and not stink up the whole neighborhood. Like a lot of varieties.
Yeah.
Or whatever is sometimes a benefit.
You know, a lot of the production growers in the city. Yes, that's exactly right. For the, if you are production grower in the city, uh, growing something for export, but most of the good old boys living in the country, we wanted the Turks. We wanted the labor.
Yeah. Yeah.
Another part of it too, is that, you know, if you got a big yielding resinous thick dense thing that smelled like nothing, you could safely cross that to something much terpere and hope that those terpenes crossed over and would show up because they, it wouldn't have any terps to interfere.
So you were looking for like the resin and the density and the production and hoping that the effect and the flavor came over from the other side of the thing.
That's exactly what we did with our Romulan. We used what he made the Romulan BC Cush cross used the male from the Romulan and it lent a lot of the potency and a lot of the smell, but it kept with that BC Cush size.
Yeah, very, very nice way to, that was a nice cross. I still, I still produce it, but I don't have the original BC Cush cut anymore.
But that's, yeah, I still produce a version of it. So.
That's cool that you've, you've, you've found a way to keep your lines going, even when stuff gets lost, you know, your lines well enough to be able to work them to get them back to where you feel comfortable saying this represents that line well enough to be that line.
That's, that's. Yeah.
There's still a few, few varieties I'd like to get back but haven't been able to.
But, which ones, which ones?
My bonkers, definitely my bonkers string.
What was that one?
It was, it was one of the first strains I bred on a large scale outdoors on Vancouver Island.
And it was a cross, the first male I used was a Burmese grapefruit.
Okay.
And that was the male and the female was from some growers in the prairies of Manitoba.
Purple motherfucker, it was called.
Crossed with early sativa, which is basically a very fast version of the Durban.
That was grown outdoors.
Is that what early sativa was?
Yes.
Yeah, I agree with that.
It was basically a super fast Durban.
I got to grow the seed line.
It's way different than the Durbans that they have now.
Yeah, it is.
It's a short spot one.
Maybe it wasn't natural Durban.
It was cool.
But that's what it actually was.
And it was very, very lethal, leafy, just like the purple motherfucker.
Yes.
And the purple motherfucker, it was always grown from seed because you couldn't keep a cut.
And the resinous on that, between the Burmese and the resinous of the purple motherfucker,
it was just astounding.
The leaves, even the fan leaves had crystal right out to the ends.
So when I first made that first four-way cross and I grew a massive crop on Vancouver Island outdoors
in one of the wettest parts of the island, and the buds only, they came out the size of footballs,
the top buds.
And even the smaller buds at the bottom was the size of a pop can.
And the production was just massive.
But the first few years, it was kind of airy from the purple motherfucker and the early sativa.
And I grew in a wet part of the island.
So that first year, I lost about half of my crop to mold.
It was all seeded.
So I selected my best seeds.
And after about the third or fourth generation of breeding that into itself outdoors,
I was in the wettest and wettest of years.
I was still, 90% of the plants had not a drop of botrytis or mold on them.
Oh, wow.
Just from going through the first few years of just culling out those traits.
Yeah.
And it became really well known around Canada anyway for the amount of resin
and the terpene level was through the roof.
So a lot of people would use it to make hash and things like that.
And that's one strain I did lose as well.
I've had customers come to me and send me seeds.
They go, oh yeah, I still make your bonkers.
It's silly.
Send me some.
I try it out.
It's not like it was.
The only people that I know that actually have seeds that have been put away is Ari and Greenhouse.
Yeah, good luck on getting them back.
Well, my business partner is actually pretty decent friends with him.
He, Ari, is like, well, I have so many seeds.
I don't have time to go digging through that or send an employee.
Ari has such a large catalog.
I can't even imagine.
And when I first moved to Holland, I did a seed trade with him.
Actually with Milo from Made the Cheese.
So I traded my friend in my bonker for the cheese.
And then Milo didn't have time to eat.
He ended up just giving them to Ari and putting them in his vault.
Oh, wow.
So that's the only place that I know for sure that there's a good generation of it there, stored away.
Man, I'd love to know what's actually in his vault and what it actually is.
Some of that early, early Silver Pearl stuff and early Pearl and early girl.
Get my hands on it.
Yeah, basically every old original person, I would love to know what they still have and what their little seed vault contains.
Because everyone claims they have not everyone.
Many people claim they have everything unchanged from the beginning.
And obviously, as we all know, the truth is a bit different than that.
But pockets of stuff exist and some people are very generous and some people are like, I have it and you don't.
And it's sitting there until I decide to do something with it.
Well, the one Dutch company that I have a lot of respect for is Flying Dutchman.
I'm not sure.
Eddie?
I'm not sure.
I forget his name, but I've tried a lot of his genetic back in the day.
And in Holland itself and in Europe, he's got an extremely good reputation.
There's a few coffee shops where you can go and get the real strand.
Yes, this is the real master cushion, you know, 1983 or whenever it was.
And he's got the original property.
I really like a lot of the other companies now.
OK, pot of gold and the real McCoy from from them, you know, we found multiple really nice versions in those things.
So, yeah, there was a time when I liked the Flying Dutchman quite a bit.
Yeah, I like their sativist from our deals from our Diablo.
Yeah, I like that.
Yeah, and that's what my Hayes and I use in my grapefruit.
Hayes cross my Romulan Hayes is from that over 20 years ago.
Oh, wow.
Flying Dutchman's come case.
Your grapefruit.
Hayes made it down to Southern California, down to San Diego in mid 2000s.
It was got it got pretty big down there.
You guys get it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Yeah, right.
Closer to the 2010 probably, actually, when I started seeing it at collectors.
But it got big down there.
It was pretty cool.
Sweet.
Cotton candy, cotton candy.
You know, that's a special.
Well, cotton candy federation.
That was basically it's an F2 to sweet tooth.
OK, yes.
Oh, sweet tooth.
Sweet tooth blueberry.
Yep.
And then back across the street.
Yeah.
To the sweet tooth again.
So and you said it was sweet tooth number two.
Yes.
If I remember correctly.
Yes.
OK.
And we have five years ago.
Yeah.
Right.
Hawaiian sativa.
I think we went over that a little bit.
Right.
Yeah.
That was from that was from Vancouver Island Seed Company.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And we had, I believe.
I believe that was an F3 back cross when we when we released it.
So probably 80 something percent Hawaiian sativa.
Yeah.
An old Afghan.
And that's another.
I do have a Hawaiian sativa now.
It's not quite like the original back then.
I wish I had something a little closer.
But.
Yeah.
Very special.
Just reproduce those.
Buddy just reproduce those.
I'm sure he'd be happy to send you some of the reproduction up and see if
you can find anything like the original.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I know.
Reeferman was saying the same thing.
Reeferman is down in Jamaica right now.
And he's he's trying to bring back the old lamb's breath.
And he's testing out all these other sativa varieties in Jamaica.
And when I was chatting with him the other day, he mentioned that he had
some of these old Hawaiian sativas as well.
Island Sweet Skunk.
That's still one of my best sellers.
Yeah.
I bet.
That's a good one.
It's you know, I've had that one from day one.
I've had Sweet Skunk number four from Spice of Life.
That first year when Steve made the Sweet Skunk, there was about three or
four different cuts that he selected that went around for a few years.
And this was the most sativa phenotype out of all of them.
OK.
That I kept and started working with.
Yeah.
It's still one of my favorites.
Still one of my best yielding strains as well.
But.
Would you consider it hazy?
Yes.
In flavor?
Yes.
Yeah.
Definitely.
A real lemony, hazy, like similarities to some of the Super Soaker hazes
even.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Or the Jack Herrera's.
Yeah.
That makes sense.
We've heard that it's like it's based on NL5 haze.
But I mean, we hear different things from different Canadians.
That's one of the rumors.
And you'd have to ask Steve or Red.
Yeah.
Yeah.
From Lights and Feeds.
He would probably know a little bit more than me about the exact
background of it.
I just received one of the clones in 96.
So.
Sure.
Exactly.
But yeah, I heard also heard the rumor that's NL haze.
So there's lots of good stuff that came from NL5 haze.
And it just made me mention that, too, because when you said it was like
one of the haze, one is one of the most sativa ones and it did
taste it a lot.
Very similar to those things.
You know, it doesn't mean it's true, but it like it definitely lends
some some points to it, maybe.
Yeah.
And one thing I kind of wanted to mention just real quick, because
I think it's interesting is, you know, I was talking about the line
between Canada and America, obviously.
But as America starts to legalize in all these different states,
especially like on the East Coast and the and the New England and
New York and some of these areas that are a lot wetter, they keep
trying to import California bread strains, which got developed in
a very arid climate.
And I've always thought that people north of the border will
probably have genetics like when you were talking about like, oh,
I was growing on the rainiest part of this island and we were
breeding for it. And by three or four years in, we got some stuff
that was resistant.
You know, in the West Coast, we don't have very much of that because
we don't have a lot of strains in summer.
But unless you're Oregon state or Washington state.
Yeah. Yeah. But in California, I mean, but in places like New York
and on the East Coast where summer is very humid, they're probably
going to end up wanting to breed in Canadian work and that
they're stuck because a lot of that stuff will have resistances.
Definitely.
My colleague of mine here runs that Golden Hat seed
company. He's originally from Oregon. Mr. Ron Harrington.
And he this last summer did a massive grow out with a bunch of
American auto flowers.
OK, strains right next to some of mine and some of his.
And he said most of the American bread ones that were from
California or Colorado or a few of these other places, he said
they were inundated with mold and mitritis.
Meanwhile, my varieties of auto flowers were
not a drop of mold on them.
And that goes back to. Yeah, it picks up those traits after years
of selecting.
Yeah, I should select because you have to.
Nobody wants to lose 50 to 75 percent of their crop to rot.
So you start breeding with the ones that survived it.
And like I said, by third, fourth generation, you get to a point
where you don't have a speck of it.
Yeah, it's hard for you to breed for those traits because it's
doesn't rain in summer.
So you don't have humidity.
Yeah, not really.
Yeah, I know. So I live for for nine years.
I lived in Spain and it's similar latitude as as northern
California around San Francisco, except in Spain.
The difference is they have really high humidity.
So a lot of my varieties did really well there.
Yeah, it was really neat to grow my strains down at a completely
different climate. But everywhere I've grown long term has been
very humid. It's the coast of Valencia there where I lived.
It's it's regularly 70, 80 percent humidity and 35 degrees
outside Celsius.
So.
Yeah, I haven't.
Now that right. Yeah.
Right now where I'm living in Alberta, Canada, it's very dry.
So this is probably the driest climate I've grown in.
In my whole 25 years of growing.
And I miss I miss growing in a humid climate.
Sometimes it's hard for me to get my rooms up past past 40
percent humidity in my indoor grow rooms.
And it's really hard to dry and cure your butt here in this climate
as well.
Yeah, I have good friends in Colorado who have similar dryness
issues and and keeping their dry rooms moist and dry
for long enough so you get that slow dry, you know, and your
weed doesn't turn into dust.
Dryness is a huge is a huge positive, in my opinion,
once you get late into flower.
But when you're early in veg, I think more humidity is actually
helpful to get small plants to vigorously grow because they don't
dry out and crisp.
Definitely.
My if my veg is dry, I'm going to have to get my plants dry.
Yeah.
All right.
UBC chemo.
Back to the list.
Oh, yeah.
Like UBC chemo.
I don't know anything about chemo.
I grew it for a few years.
I ended up dropping it.
I just was never impressed with it.
It's somewhat like a chemical.
It's a chemical.
It's a chemical.
It's a chemical.
It's a chemical.
It's a chemical.
It's a chemical.
It's a chemical.
It's a chemical.
It's a chemical.
Some people loved it.
I thought it was a way overrated.
A lot of brown hair, no resin.
Just not.
I'm not particularly fond of that earthy flavour of strain.
It's not something I like myself.
I like the spicy or the fruity strain.
It was just very dull tasting to me.
So after I started Next Generation, I didn't know.
I was one of the clones I dropped.
Yeah.
So there's other people that would know more than me about that one.
one. How about Time Warp?
I'm very, very underrated. Very impressive strain. Okay. Very
underrated. I think I have a jar left here. Actually, I was
smoking.
What's it what's it taste like and smell like what's the
trick?
Slightly piney, like a floral, perfumey in some ways.
Okay, yeah.
And I think one of the reasons that it stuck around for so long
on in in British Columbia was it's one of those strains that
you can store for long periods. And it'll keep its flavor. It
doesn't leave it lose the terpenes. So when everybody's
harvesting in September and October, the prices obviously
go down for when you're selling your weed. So Time Warp is one
of those you could dry it, pop it in the freezer. And six
months later or next summer, when it's dry, pull it out and
it'll sell smells just as fresh as the day you put it in. Wow.
That's a good, good, good trait. That's very good. Yeah, it was
really nice to smoke. I know it wasn't the strongest strain, but
I would guess to me because we never did test back then. I
would guess around the 17 to 20 somewhere in there. Okay. For
percentage. Hitting 20 might be a little hard. But yeah, in
in that zone. Yeah. And I actually I'm bringing that one
back. So I lost that original cut as well. I supposedly still
out there, but I had lots of f5 and f6 crosses that I had. So in
the last few years, I've been doing selecting to get it back
to close to the original. And so now I have two different
versions of it. I have the one that's very similar to the
original. And I have one that is similar to the original, but
a lot larger. And what's what are they called? Wow, just time
warp and time warp XL. Okay. Basically, and the XL should be
on our website in a few weeks. Oh, awesome. The original will
be ready just in time for spring. Hopefully by by April,
we'll have the the original time warp back. That's pretty cool.
I've always wanted to try it. But I noticed like whenever
whenever I was young, and I was buying, like, outdoor strains
trying to grow them indoor, it was it was actually harder to
bring outdoor strains indoor for me, you know, like I would
always herm them unless, unless I started like keeping a clone
of one and running it several generations as it acclimates, it
stops that, you know, but like, it took a while to learn that
stuff, you know,
and the time we're cutting is one of those strains that would
never do get in indoors. Very, very stringy. The branches
couldn't not hold up the buds. And it was meant for it was
bred outdoors. It's meant indoors. It just did not. Yeah,
it was not impressive at all indoors. Yeah, some plants just
don't translate. It's really weird. I know not to has a lot
of experience with that, too. You know, indoor to outdoor
strains. Yeah, I mean, I definitely have seen a lot of
very stable stuff outside that panics and herms when you bring
it inside. Yeah, I've done a bunch of experimenting and side
by sides because I've grown a lot of the same strains for a
long time. I think that plants use different spectrums of light
for different processes. And when you put them outside in the
sun, they just get like the whole cornucopia of anything they
could want from light is right there for them to pull. And if
you look at the spectral charts of any kind of lamp you might
use indoors, they're very, very narrow compared to the sun. And
so I tend to believe that there are certain things that like the
sun, you know, you know, and and you just don't get unless you
blend a bunch of different types of lights in the same indoor.
You just don't you just it's really hard to approximate that
some plants are super sensitive to light and you know, and UV and
all that different types of stuff. And so I can't say it for
certain. But I would agree with that. I would definitely agree
with that. You know, I mean, I have plants that are very old
now. And I think sometimes they're very finicky inside. And
I can struggle with them a little bit. But if I put them in
a greenhouse, they're a champ. Every time without fail. They
just rock. That's, that's how the time work was. Yeah. And I
just attribute that to like, you know, the sun is a bet is the
best light. So you know, it's interesting in that regard. What
about Pineberry?
Pineberry, um, very nice strain. I had much it was it was a very
popular strain outdoors in Canada, back in the day, and I
bet a lot of that got sold down south as beasters. I'm sure. But
it was the beautiful little like golf, golf ball sized buds. And
just prolific, easy to trim very, very branchy. It would
usually finish, I'd always harvest the planting stages when
we get fields up and outdoors. You'd go probably the first or
probably the second week of September, you'd go cut all the
tops, the top foot, top coalesce. And then you'd wait
another two weeks and then the bottoms would just fill in and
get big and do that almost three harvests off the same plant and
just work your way down as as it thickened up. It was another
one that was very mold resistant. You could put it in
the rain. And yeah, take it. And I know a lot of guys sold it as
indoors. It looks so nice in a bag. People would pass it off as
indoors when you know, yeah, you go that's obviously outdoor
greenhouse, but you know, a lot of the part of the public didn't
know that. So
it was nice enough to fly under the radar. Yeah,
that's very common. I mean, especially the first, second
and third cut thing for even my area outdoor growers and stuff
that had limited dry space, something that you could cut in
waves, and you could fill your drying room. And then by the
time you were empty, you could take another round. And then by
the time you emptied it, you could take the third round. That
was very beneficial. Because space was a premium. And you
could you could much easier grow more than you could process.
Most most most.
No, definitely for us to, you know, the whole month of
September and halfway into October was basically a month
and a half of harvest every two days you go up to the bush. You
harvest what you can watch for any problems. And if it's still
sunny out, you leave what you can. And then it was every
second day you do the truck drive. And yeah, it was a lot of
that to you hang up the pineberry and then get down for
a week. It's dry enough, you got to fill up the room and then
just pack it away in a room to trim later. Because you rarely
had enough time to trim it as it came in.
I'm sure
I miss those old days.
Yeah, I do too. To be honest with you, my old days are
different than your old days. Obviously, I'm like the
generation under but even then still like the for Californians
like the heyday of prop 215 was was like, you know, we had a
pretty good I think better than we had it for a long time.
For a lot of people. You know, the reason why indoor is king is
you are able to grow indoor in more places than you are able to
grow outdoor, both from like a place where outdoor was, you
know, would do well, and you could get away with it and not
get in big trouble. You know, indoor, you could have a garage
or a bedroom or a warehouse and it was safe from prying eyes
outdoor. You kind of had to be somewhere semi permissible or at
least where the cat and mouse game could get played. Yeah.
Yeah. So very rural, very rural. This is yet to be yet to be an
outdoor man. Up here in Canada to do it. So
what do you know about the Ortega clone that went around
Canada? Anything?
Um, actually, I've never worked with that one. I can't really
tell you much info on that one.
Yeah, I wasn't sure that that's just one of those ones that I
hear about. There's an Iranian that went around in Canada, I
think.
Auto. Yeah, I believe that's, that's more in eastern Canada.
Gotcha.
Just like the M 39. Those trades more of a Quebec thing.
Gotcha. Pink cush.
Did you?
I've never worked with that one. reefer man would be the
professional on that one. Yeah, we did a lot of work with it. So
I've never, I never really worked with it myself.
Okay, my next list goes on into the next generation era. Would
you say it's the most important era for your work and the stuff
you're most proud of?
Oh, yes. Federation was just my first year and a half in the
business.
And I almost 26 years now doing next generation. So yeah, that's
even to this day, I have a lot of the old strains that I picked
up, I still stick with a lot of my old strains and keep trying
to perfect them instead of bringing on everything new. Yeah,
it's that the popular strain of the year.
I admire that.
Unless it really impresses me. I'm not really interested in
other breeders work. Yeah, I love that.
Try to perfect my own stuff and keep working on my own stuff,
making it better. So
I mean, in the American market today, people that do that are
probably like 2%. Yeah, like 98% is probably one off hybrids that
they make, and then they sell and then they move on. And each
drop that they do is a unique, you know, breeding or reversals
or whatever.
The first time working with any of these moms. Yeah.
And it's very rare to have people that just like these are
my favorites. This is what I like. These are the traits I'm
looking for. And I'm going to keep working these lines towards
what I enjoy.
Yeah, that's, that's exactly how I do a lot of my varieties. Once
I know what I'm looking for, I'm just trying to stabilize
certain traits with a lot of the varieties. So yeah, and I a lot
of people keep offering me and I do obviously do do some one off
with tones and cuttings of other varieties.
So right now I have a really nice Larry OG. I've got Death
Baba and a few other strains that I just bring into it and do
make some one off crosses, but they're not the they're not the
strains like I treat like my children. There's a part of my
catalog that you know, been a part of my life for 25 years. So
I can I can tell you exactly how they do in different climates
and what to feed them what not to feed them. Well, I know more
stuff about the genetics and what happened on back in the
old days in the late 90s to 2000s because I left Canada in
2008.
Okay.
And I moved back only in 2017.
Oh, wow.
Almost a 10 year gap where I don't really I'm kind of out of
touch with what happened during that 10 years. Sure. When I came
back here five years ago. I kind of just get set up my warehouse
and I started doing my own, my own varieties again. And I mix
less with what's going on in the in the local community than I
used to.
Where did you go during those years? And were you still
breeding and selling seeds?
Oh, yes, I was breeding in Spain. I was making a lot of
seeds in Spain. I lived in New Hampshire for six months. That
was too expensive to live there. So I moved down to Spain. And
yeah, I had a few different breeding operations down there.
And I produced a lot of seeds for a lot of Moroccan farmers
and actually for farmers as well. There's a lot of a lot of
the Dutch guys. They would farm out their seed making to a
Spanish first. So yeah, yeah. In Valencia province in the loam
where I lived, I know a bunch of the big seed producers. They're
all personal friends of mine that produce for sweet seeds,
pyramid seeds, for green every other state over there. It comes
from the same farmers. And the Dutch Dutch growers to it was
too expensive to grow. So they would just come meet a Spanish
guy or somebody like me living in Spain and make seeds for
them. They bring us Yeah, they bring us the cones and say,
okay, here you go. We'll buy them off you for a buck a seed.
Just make them for us. So a lot of the Dutch companies don't
even make their own stuff anymore.
Oh, yeah, that's been going on for a long time, too. Since
2000. Really?
Yeah, I mean, I believe in 99 or 2000. They changed the law in
Amsterdam, there was a loophole or in in the Netherlands, I
should say where you could grow legally cannabis seeds, and they
couldn't mess with you. And I think they closed that loophole.
And then a bunch of the famous seed companies got raided or
busted or whatever. And I think that was one of the big reasons
that the exit has happened. And it also secretly seems to be
when they started farming out the actual seed production to
third parties, and not doing it in house anymore, but just not
mentioning that it was all third parties producing their
seed.
Yeah, and a lot of the Dutch guys, you know, if you're living
in Holland, wouldn't you rather live in Spain where it's nice
and sunny all year round. So a lot of them retired to to Spain.
So a lot of them did bring their genetics down there and they
have their network of friends and growers.
Yeah, buddy. Seems like Spain and Switzerland. First, you
know, reader, reader, Steve went to Switzerland, Shaun C went to
Switzerland, some other people went Swiss for a bit.
Bob, I was there. Scott was there. Yeah.
Yeah, all that. And then some people went to Spain and vice
versa. And that kind of became like the new places in Europe.
One thing I just is totally random, but I don't want to lose
it before before we do is that maybe you could talk for a
second when you were in Spain about like, how much Moroccan do
you think is still actual land race Moroccan? And how much is
imported Spanish work grown in Morocco?
So yeah, actually, I know quite a bit about that. So I went to
Morocco several times, quite a few times with a lot of big, I
had some Spanish friends that were big hash smugglers. And
some of them had grow shops and there were seed breeders in
Spain. I would go supply Spain or supply Morocco with seeds.
But the first time I went there to meet some of the farmers in
mountains in Getama. I went there looking for that old
school Moroccan. Sure. The real brown, the stuff they made.
Yeah, they made the key foot. But by the time I went there, it
would have been around 2009 2010. They had are at that
period, they had already switched over to mostly
Pakistani genetics. Interesting. There were very few farmers that
were still doing the old school Moroccan strains that had that
nice dusty flavor. More like the kind of more resembled a lot of
the Lebanese stuff, actually. Yeah, think about it. And a lot
redder hash, but the Pakistanis would yield double or triple.
And so but they at that point, they still weren't cutting the
males that they were just starting to learn to go out to
the Oh, wow.
males. And if you did, if you were a grower who did it, cut
all your males, well, your neighbors male pollen still
gonna float in. Yeah. But, but even with a bit of that floating
in, you're gonna, it's gonna be substantially less. Yeah. Yeah.
When we went started going down there to Morocco, a lot of the
big guys that were the big sellers in the region for the
local hash farmers, were starting to clue in that if we
started bringing buying the Spanish feminized seeds, they
would up their yields, they wouldn't have all these males,
and they would get a lot more hash. So they started importing
out of from Spain, a lot of the super silver haze, and critical,
sure, plus. So, so many of the farmers there started switching
to buying feminized seeds. And a lot of the US farmers in Spain,
when we had extra seeds, we knew that every year, the Moroccan
buyers would be up in Spain, and they would buy seeds by the
million. Yeah. And then they would distribute it to their
farmers, stop the quality and yields. So yeah, they switched,
I would say, with the last five years, it's mostly Spanish
varieties, which is based on Dutch stuff, one of the critical
so is, and I've actually been in quite a bit of contact lately,
the last two years with a big Moroccan guy down there. And
they're really looking to develop strains now that are
more drought resistant. So a lot of the a lot of the varieties
from Spain were not drought resistant, they use so much
more water. Yeah. And a lot of the farmers there now are
putting in drip lines, even back when I was there, the farm that
we went to, they already had drip lines, my Spanish friend
who was the buyer of all their hash, he brought down two vans
full of drip lines to this farm for these guys. And they were
doing a really good job of it. Yeah. But yeah, they're really
the guy that I'm talking to now. He's on the other side of the
mountain. He's not up in the mountains in Panama, he's down
in a research place of 10 acres. And they're trying to develop
the drought resistant varieties. Oh, wow. I've been talking to
him about it. And he's asking me which varieties of mine are the
most drought resistant. So they're going to be working with
some of my varieties doing some selective breeding down in the
area. It makes sense. They go from very drought resistant
varieties that probably were low, lower yielding because
they're because they could survive in an arid climate. And
they weren't really getting as much inputs as they needed. But
they would live to these bigger yielding Dutch things that
drought resistance isn't a problem when you're in Holland
indoor, and you're just getting fed with rock wool all the time.
So they weren't breeding for that. And so they get these
bigger yielding plants, but they're thirsty. And then they
realize they don't have enough water. You know, that's an
interesting area.
And when I was there, I never did find find any of the
original Moroccan. I had the guys that I knew there, I'd
asked them, is there any farmers still growing this original
variety? And I had them looking for me because I wanted to get
my hands on the seed. Sure. And I had any luck.
That's a shame about that is you would think that the critical
plus you were talking about and the super silver haze and some
of that, though, obviously, like some of that original Moroccan
would be prime breeding candidates to try to mix into
those lines and define ones that are drought resistant and
acclimated but yield.
Yeah, that's definitely right. That'd be the way to do it.
Yeah, too bad.
You know, I didn't mention it. But like when you were talking
about refer them being down in Jamaica, Jamaica has a similar
thing in that most of the original Jamaican lines are
basically it seems like almost completely gone. And they've
been replaced by Dutch genetics that were shorter and faster and
bigger yielding and easier and maybe better names for them. And
so it's it's, you know, it's the way nature works or
whatever. But, you know, a lot of these land races have been
displaced.
Well, that's one thing that I know reefer man is doing right
now in Jamaica, with the plot of land that he's working on, he's
trying to bring back a lot of those old varieties. He has
pretty extensive collection. And I know he's been working on
bringing back the old Jamaican lands breath with the Rastafarian
collective there, I believe he's working with, but trying to
bring back the old one. So if anyone can do it, he can do it.
I've often thought to that, like some of the places like in
Afghanistan and Pakistan, that have so many of their original
varieties, it's probably because it's been at war for 25 years.
And it's been pretty dangerous for Westerners, especially, you
know, white Christians or something like that to go into
those hills. And so as a result of that, they really haven't
gotten super silver haze or critical mass or this or that or
Dutch hybrids because it's not easy to go there. You know,
yeah, that's not it's yeah, you know, definitely a little more
secluded. Those genetics haven't been polluted yet. So
interesting. Maybe someday I'll have to grow up grow a beard and
go there. All right.
Yeah, I know. We'll go. I'll draw a beard and go. So all
incognito. So let's talk about let's see Diablo. That's a real
popular next generation one that I remember.
Yeah, it was very popular. That's another one I've lost.
But that was basically my Avalon crossed with that early sativa as
well. That Oh, wow. So it was very cool. Yeah, I know. There's
a lot of growers in the Midwest in Minnesota, Michigan, you
know, across Nebraska, Kentucky. Back in those days, they just
loved and raved about the Diablo because it was one of those
strains when it was in veg, it grew like a sativa stream fast.
But the second it tripped into flower, it would flower fast.
Whether it was indoors or outdoors indoors, it was about
a six flowering period. But it didn't give the quality quality
buds indoors. Outdoors, it was just amazing. So in a shorter
climate, you could you could you can get a large size plant and
when it flipped, it flipped hard and fast. That was one of the
yeah, it was very nice trade.
Our buddy rings that was his favorite. He has a bunch of
pictures of it just mass just like 14 foot plants out in
Mendo. Yeah, you're Afghani kush. Which hash plant did you
use in that?
The Afghani kush. It was an Afghani hash plant. In BC back
in the day. That was one of the first ones that I used to breed
my Avalon strain with. It was an Afghani hash plant crossed with
the BC kush actually. Okay, my first thing that I strain that I
refer to as the Afghani kush. Yeah. So that's, those are
that's the parentage there.
Okay, grapefruit haze. We talked about this earlier. It was going
around San Diego for a while.
Yeah, that's like I said, the original grapefruit, the pink
grapefruit, micado, dynamite, whatever you want to call it.
Yeah. With the saying the flying Dutchman skunk one by haze from
the flying Dutchman. Very nice. I've been working with that ever
ever since. It's now basically is that inbred line. But it was
the very it was the first first variety that I turned into a
into an auto flower. Oh, wow. Doing that as an auto flower.
Very, very long time now since I've been in Spain about 10
years. And it's the one that has great mold resistance. Everybody
that grows it here in Canada has when it's side by side with
another auto flower, it may not be as large a plant, but it is
stinky and no mold. Yeah, very, very resistant. So
what did you use to to make your plants auto flower? What was
your auto flower input?
It was the very first Ruter Alice cross I used was a Ruter
Alice big bud. Okay, that was going around from a grower
friend in Spain who worked with few other seed companies. And
that's what I did my first back cross with and it was already
it was already a semi stabilized Ruter Alice big bud was already
being sold as an auto flower. So that's what I used as my first
back cross. And then yeah, once I had four back crosses into it,
yeah, it was it was stable. It was more more stable. Yeah, I'm
a few generations into it. Now. I did a lot of what more
selecting since I've been back in Canada as well. So
that's cool. Yeah, I've done very little auto flower work,
but I did some with Ernesto from Buddha seeds, Spain. Okay,
his his white dwarf, they were they were dwarf autos auto
dwarfs. I think you called them. Okay, they were tiny. I had a
good friend in Spain that made a bunch of red dwarfs white
drawers. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. A few of those. It couldn't even be my
buddy's grower that they came from. Yeah. Ernesto, right. I
think he owns. Yeah. Yeah. Like most people over there. They
buy their seeds. Yeah, yeah, exactly. Yeah.
You know, this is a little off topic, but maybe not. When,
since you decided to go and move to Europe for 10 years, was it
personal reasons? Was it weather? Was it like you felt
like it was a business opportunity over there for seed
making? Was it a combo?
There's, there's a combo of reasons. I've always wanted to
travel Europe and, and you want back in the day, if you wanted
to reach the big leagues in the seed business, you have to move
to Europe. Yeah. So and that mixed with the week that I moved
there was also the week Mark Emery got sentenced to five
years in prison for selling seeds. Oh, that's a good time to
be and I was, I was to say, they were looking at me pretty heavy.
I bet. I just felt it was time to go and leave for a while.
Yeah, before I end up in the can as well.
Before you end up Yeah, being a marble.
I was more in the background, but I was one of the largest seed
producers that that he had. Yeah. So I figured, well, it's
the perfect time to leave. Better get out while you're
ahead. Yeah. So that's what I did. And did you enjoy living
there? I loved it. I miss it every day. I love that. Yeah. Oh
wow. I still consider I almost consider Spain my home. Living
there for nine years. When I traveled to Spain, it feels like
I'm going home. Yeah. Did you did you speak Spanish before you
moved there? Did you learn while you were there?
I learned a fair amount of Spanish when I was there. Yeah.
It's pretty fluent now. So is it fairly affordable compared to
like California? That you know, very affordable. Very well in
Spain, Spain. If you're living in the north of Europe, it's
very expensive. Yeah. I can find a living hall and I believe in
Canadian or American dollars, I probably paid about 2500 for a
small apartment. Yeah, a little garage in the back in Amsterdam.
So when I got offered the opportunity to move to Spain, my
rent went down to about $400. And, and I had a three story 14
room hotel that was that I lived in for $450. So, and the cost of
living is next to nothing in Spain. Oh my comparison to
North America. Yeah. So yeah, it's sunny. The food is cheap
and great. So the culture is nice and polite there. Yeah, the
culture is pretty polite. Yeah. Very, very different from what
I'm used to. I mean, the, the, the, the culture, one of the
things I think is cool about the culture, especially for people
that do a lot of indoor gardening, like we all do is
they stay up late. You know, they, they, they, they, they
stay up late. You know, it gets, it gets hot there. And so it's
very common. You know, you'll have, you'll have playgrounds
full of kids at 10 o'clock at night, because that's when it
cools down. That's normal. That's totally normal. You know,
eating it, eating at 945 at night, because that's when it's
cooled down and you start cooking, you know, late.
Does it get that hot there?
It gets very, very hot. Like, no. Yeah, I love that. I was
always being in Canada when I lived in the cities, I do my
watering usually at night, I go out and start working in the
grow room at 10pm because you knew the neighbors weren't going
to come over, things like that. So you go out to the girl room
at 10pm, you work till two or three in the morning. And that
was kind of my cycle. So when I moved to Spain, it fitted
perfectly.
Yeah, that's what I was just thinking. I was like, man, it
really is well suited for indoor gardeners, because it's got that
late night lifestyle. Like, Matt, you trip out, you can
literally be at a playground at 11 o'clock at night. And it is
full of screaming eight year olds and running around parents
hanging out. The swings are full people are like, it's so weird.
Like, yeah, they just they rest.
Yeah, a lot of the elderly people don't go out during the
day because it's too hot. It's not good for them. It makes
sense. At 10pm, you'll see all the old ladies on the street
with their canes walking up and down the street till two in the
morning. That's awesome. During the summer months. It's great.
It was very I enjoyed living there. And I'm still considering
retiring there once I'm
Yeah, my first time to get
on a personal note, my dad wanted to move the family to
Spain and like the 90s. Because he had a bunch of work in
Europe, and it was so much closer. My mom wouldn't do it
because she didn't want to learn another language. But he was
basically like if we would have moved there, then with the
exchange rate, what it was and how cheap real estate was, he's
like, I probably would have retired 15 years before I did.
Just because of the way it all worked out. Yeah, it was so
affordable. I think it's changed a little bit, but it used to be
incredibly cheap.
It still is compared to Canada and the US. It's still very
cheap. Very, very cheap. So yeah, I can never afford to buy
a nice house here in Canada again, but down there, no
problem.
Yeah, same in California. It's crazy. Now. It is crazy. Like
where I live in California, Bakersfield, it used to be like
one of the last little bastions of affordable living in
California, you know, where you could get a house for $250,000.
You can't get a tiny house now like a 1200 square foot house
for less than half a million. It's it's over, you know, like
for
$250,000 in Spain. Yeah, for $250,000 in Spain, you have a
beautiful house with a swimming pool and a nice view.
Crazy. Yeah.
Matt, I mean, Matt doesn't even live in a Matt. I mean, he
technically lives in California, but like, it's a party. Yeah, I
just mean, really want to say technically is because when
people think of California, they think coastal and mountains live
in hell. He just lives in in boiling hot desert dry. And it's
still affordable. And it's still an affordable now. Yeah, it's
crazy. So what what are some of the ones you want to cover the
most from next generation that that are current stock that you
want people to know about the most?
Well, we brought our Romulan back feminized. Yes. Awesome.
Yeah, it's a Yeah, it's as close as I can get to the original,
except that it produces better than the original produces much
better than the original.
That's a big good trait for it.
Yeah, yeah, I can't say it's not quite as piney as the old one
was, but it's pretty damn close. So
is that the dominant terpene profile for Romulan was pine?
Yeah, very fine. Pining. Gotcha. It's definitely the dominant one.
Definitely. So so yeah, I don't know if you've seen my catalog
or peruse the website a little bit, but I got a few new
varieties. I'm bringing back an old Colombian red Mexican
variety. Oh, wow. The seeds are just fattening up right now.
How long?
Around the 1212 weeks. 12 weeks. So awesome. And a lot of people
that scares off but not me.
Yeah, even if it was longer, I'd rather have a nice, pure,
trustworthy Colombian red line or something. Then worry about
how long it flowers.
I've also got a tester room. Last year, I made a bunch of I
crossed my Romulan with a few Malawi gold landrace. Oh, nice.
And also with the Pucca Rojo Colombian. And also with the
Acapulco gold. So I've got a nice room right now with about
five weeks into flower right now. I'm doing a big grow out
and testing them out. But the Malawi is the first round. They
were so wild and so sativa. And I didn't find I wasn't quite
very impressed with it. But I did a few crosses anyway, with
a few of the nicest plants. And the Romulan cross that I've done
with it are just coming along phenomenally right now. And it
shortened it so much and made it growable indoors because they
were just they were so lanky in the first round that I did. So
yeah, if I do release that, that's that's probably still
going to be a year or two away before I release that. That's
what I'm working on right in my private stuff right now.
That's really cool stuff, though. Yeah, Malawi can be
really resonance. I always have a story like I learned that some
like sativas will not flower under like normal 12 hours of
light with Malawi. That was the plant that I learned that with
after three months of keeping it under 1212 and zero sex
traits showing up. I'm like, what is going on?
With the Congolese sativa one time I drew that out. I was at
week 16 or 17. And the buds were no no bigger than my little
finger. Yeah. And all my friends were like, Jay, you're an idiot.
Why? You could have pulled off two or three crops already. And
meanwhile, they're just pulling down weights. I've got a six
room that I just, I just cut it through the garbage. But yeah,
but if you don't experiment with those, you don't find the good
ones either. So that's very true. Yeah, I never seen
anything like that for
Yeah, I noticed that with the Congolese, it wouldn't flower,
it would take so long. Yeah, kick off.
Was it from seed? Oh, yes. Yeah. Because one of the things that I
learned, you know, with some of the guys that had run like a
bunch of the Neville's Hayes and some of like the, that kind of
work in Holland was they told me like, if you take an old clone,
and you flower it, it's ready to flower because it's been alive
for long enough that it knows it's it should be blooming, but
it hasn't. And they said, if you get some of these equatorial
sativas going, they're very used to like from seed knowing that
they need to veg for six or seven months before they even
want to think about flowering. So they said it can be very
difficult to get an extreme sativa like that to trigger
early. Because genetically, it just doesn't want to, you know,
like you can force that you can force the matter with light
cycle, but it's harder, because it wants to match. It's almost
like a pre puberty, you know, human or something like until it
hits that phase, it's just not ready. So
yeah, the opposite of a lot of flower like, and it makes sense,
right? Like, you have a situation in which it's always
1113 or 1212, or something like that near the equator, like a
Malawi or a Colombian or a Panamanian or maybe something
like that. And they're just used to growing for, you know, maybe
even six, seven months, eight months before they bloom, and
then they bloom for five. Some of them take longer than a year
from seed to finish because there is no winter. They're
terrified of dying under, they don't it doesn't get cold enough
to die.
That's true. Yeah, if you want to grow those indoors, it's best
to keep them root bound in a small container in the corner of
the room for six months before. Yeah, and then pull it back out
again. Yeah,
I brought home some nevels haze, and I think it was 98 or 99.
Right around then the first year or two, it was released. And I
was planning on making all this seed. And I set up this room.
And I couldn't even get the males to drop pollen. You know,
for like, I had a whole room that was just ended up being
head stashed because it was like, you know, 20 different
plants that I was thinking was going to make seed and there was
no pollen to make seed. And I had to restart them and put more
plants in there with the same males and wait some more. And I
did but I that was in the I didn't know the tricks of the
light cycle. To me when you bloomed everything was 1212.
That was what the book said. That was what you did. I never
heard of 1113 or 1014 or any weird times like that. It was
like, you know, at the time, the level of knowledge I had it was
like 1212 is what you do. Yeah. So you know, learning. Yeah,
what were some of the books that you what were some of the books
that got you into growing? Like when you first started learning
to grow? Were there books involved or just people?
I was fortunate enough to get down in Vancouver where I
learned from other growers more than books. Yeah. And when when
Jorge Cervantes was making his first books, or maybe not the
first books that I knew of anyway. Yeah, he was he was up
in Canada. Taking photos in my grow rooms.
That's so funny. Some of the first books that I seen were
books that I was in. Yeah. So yeah, it was hands on hands on
learning for me. And that's awesome.
Yeah, that's that's really, really interesting. Not many
people can say that. Their first books that they were seeing had
their grown room in it.
So you have your your blueberry punch, which is which are
Romulan blueberry. Is that what it is? Correct. Very Romulan
male. Which which blue line are you using?
It was a one that I what I'm using now. My first I was a DJ
short blueberry from the late 90s. And I crossed that with the
grapefruit male that I was using. And then back crossed
that was an F four basically F four blueberry back cross that
I'm using. My Romulan male. And that's basically the one I'm
using. I'm actually doing a phenol hunt of that generation
right now. I've got about 40 females going right now. Oh,
nice. I'm looking for a new fresh blueberry to use. Yeah. I
always so I have my main grow room where I make my seeds and
then I have my five light grow room where I'm just constantly
testing and just growing out things. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I'm a
blueberry fiend myself. So I understand the hunt for the
perfect blue. That's one of my favorite things in life. Yeah, I
was a lot lot different than what you see is blueberry on the
market these days. We used to have different and way different
than the Dutch passion blueberry is nothing like the blueberry
from back in the day. Yeah. You know, when that's passion one is
a lot easier to grow. Yeah, it looks a lot better nicer in a
bag easier to trim. But it has no smell. It's not that old
fruity smell. If you'll blueberry had that don't seem to
care that I noticed that a lot of some Dutch strains, because
they all mix their weed with tobacco. So for them the flavor
isn't as important. They the Dutch breed bread for a healthy
growth structure. And but it weren't as concerned about the
smell. That makes a lot of sense with the fact that they
were mixing it with tobacco that they wouldn't have paid as much
attention to that. I used to battle with them about it. Yeah,
I bet me too. I still do.
Well, I mean, I would go over there and they would think I was
nuts for smoking pure flour and not mixing it with a bunch of
tobacco, you know, or like the most common thing they would they
would do is they would make a hashish snake that they would a
thin a thin, you know, roll of hash and then they would roll
back around that and make a big spliff and start chiefing Matt.
And so yeah, I remember, yeah, the first couple cannabis cups
in Amsterdam that I went to, I went with a few other Canadians
in Vancouver, feedback, my friends there and a few other
breeders. And they would make fun of us Canadians. Because we
would smoke pure joints. And they're like, Oh, these are the
hardcore drug addicts that smoking.
That's funny.
I don't actually smoke tobacco. So I found it very difficult,
like, especially in winter when Amsterdam is very cold, and and
kind of grimy to be in a coffee shop with like eight or nine
spliffs going out of and the amount of smoke and the amount
of tobacco smoke and just me just wishing like, like these
places need a huge carbon filter. Like, because yeah, it
was actually kind of intense. Like it's more tobacco than
weed. You prissy American.
I mean, they thought they thought it was they thought we
were nuts for sure. As far as smoking pure cannabis, you know,
but but yeah, it's
over there.
I have I met and I argue about this, but I almost think that
like DJ shorts blue work is so inbred that it works best in
outcrosses. No, I agree. You know, that like, it's really
hard. I've grown a lot of his work trying to find like amazing
examples of each line. And it's really hard to do for me to find
like the grail that like looks good and tastes good and has
like potency to it and isn't a leafy monster. But it seems to
shine when you throw it on things that aren't it.
Well, I think and I'm gonna stick by it till the day I die
now. And it wasn't from anything that I did. It was it was it was
growing someone else's blueberry work like and I at the time when
when this guy, Lone Star from Texas resin company when he
released his blueberry work, I had released my first blueberry
work. So I had no interest in growing his because I already
had the best you know, it's like I got the best minority smells
like blueberries. What would how much better could it be? Well,
mine was lacking resin production. And it was it was
beautiful. It was very purple. It looked more like Oregon
purple tie type, more loose buds, not dense, low resin
production and just no recreational potency. It had a
lot of medical potency where nerve pain and stuff that would
dull it was great for that. But recreational people would just
go this is garbage. This isn't getting me high, you know, but I
thought I had the best one and then I lost it. And I had to go
through a bunch of blueberries. And the first place I started
looking was Canadian blueberries. Because in my
experience, Canadians, that was that era where people were
starting to capture that super blueberry actual blueberry smell
actual blueberry taste was in the Canadian blue line. So
that's where I started. And I ended up going to this guy
Lone Stars work who I'm not sure which blueberry line he used.
But it seems like at some point near the end, he outcrossed to
some sort of Afghani let let the blue breed true, the blue turps
and blue flavors, all that breed true. But it doesn't breed like
an inbred plant. Because of that, because of that one single
backcross, I can cross it to like, his line to a blue velvet
and not have too much inbreeding, then all you get is
the mutations and the, you know, foxtail look with no
resin. So yeah, I'm pretty staunch on the blueberry needed
outcross at some point.
Yeah, I've, yeah, I've pretty much noticed the same thing.
Once I've seen, and it's, yeah, and the blueberries from back in
the late 90s or early 2000s. In Vancouver, there in British
Columbia, there was a lot of them. And they were very
similar in some ways to the grapefruit. Yeah, there is
grapefruit, there was some similarities. But if you draw
on a batch of blueberry seeds, some of DJ shorts crosses with
the blueberries were always better than the straight
blueberry. Yeah.
Makes sense. Interesting, too, is that I think when he started
selling his seeds, first, he started at Sag Martha with Tony.
And then he ended up at Dutch passion. But he didn't really
control that too much. I think it was more like he sent him a
bunch of seed and they made their own selections. And then
when he when it started getting sold in Canada, it's almost I
think he kind of took control of it again, and was sending seed
up there.
I have no idea what was going on. Did you take it was
available? It was available in Canada before Dutch passion or
anywhere in Europe. Oh, really? I didn't know that. Oh, yeah. So
he was selling first through Canada.
I know what there was there was clones of it going around when I
started. Oh, wow. Yeah, I mean, Oregon is where he's from isn't
very far from from, you know,
Vancouver and stuff. Yeah. No, not really.
Yeah, he'd make regular trips to Canada. And I believe he did
some work with spice of life. Yeah, yeah. Steve. Yeah, Steven
Ray.
Original sister Barry. Yeah, so that's just very had some of DJ
shorts blueberry that came straight from him.
So it makes sense. Yeah, that's wild. Yeah, I never really
realized that that the clones are going up before they were
even released in Europe. Like the seed lines are released in
Europe, the clones were going up and make you remember at the
time that they that sag Martha and those groups were selling
it. This is kind of pre the Canadian seed selling at least
to the public that was easy and well known.
Oh, you know, it was only Holland. Am I right? Like that?
Like Canadian seed selling happened a little bit later.
Yeah, it actually pretty much wouldn't mark for started and
then Kyle was kind seed that would have been around 94. Yeah,
I believe. Right, right in that ballpark. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I
mean, I was sharing with Matt before we did this, I have like
some we I have some like old cannabis cultures and some
different stuff. And we were like looking over like the
Federation list in marks catalog and different stuff, you know,
and you know, DJ was in there. He had his four things. I think
it was like blue velvet, blue heaven, blueberry and flow,
maybe something like that. Yeah, yeah, it was. You know, and so
he was in there in the Yeah, the early years of those things
being advertised, you know, there was definitely people
selling his stuff. So dollar high dollar for that for the
era, super high dollar, insane high prices back then. I wish
you could still get those prices. That'd be nice. Yeah,
wouldn't that be nice? I remember those prices just a few
years ago. I didn't around no more. No, that ain't happening.
So is there anything else you want to talk about other than
what you have coming up? And so anything else you're really
stoked about that you have good stock of you want to get out
there?
Well, we have a nice banner, banner grapefruit crosses. Okay,
we know right now, one of the other more popular strains that
have I know it's more popular in the south is truffles. I have a
black truffles I've crossed with that Columbia red. Oh, wow. So
and that will be on the website probably in a few weeks. The
plants are good due to get cut in about a week. So So yeah,
very I'm looking forward to that. I've already did some
testers of it. Now I did the batch of seeds of the Colombian
truffles, the Mexican sativa, the Colombian reds coming up
soon as well. That's awesome. And and the Romulan is still one
of my Yeah, I'm so happy with the one I have right now. Yeah,
finally released again. So yeah, I've got so many strains
right now. It's hard to wrap my head around anyone in
particular.
Yeah, I'm stoked to see you bring Romulan back to you know,
like I said, there's, there's been many cases of many
different companies, none in particular that I'm referring
to, but many companies coming out claiming that they have pure
Romulan, you know, or this Romulan hybrid and you know,
they're newer people and probably don't, you know, and
it's good to see a reputable person that you know, has good
provenance with this stuff that's worked it for years that
knows it bringing it back, bringing back with the real
name and everything.
There's the Romulan here in Canada, there's just one going
around on the recreational market in all the stores that
they sell as Romulan. And actually was Romulan Joe that
first showed me a bag when I went to see him a few months
ago. And we looked at it, we tried some together and we were
like, now this is a Romulan grapefruit cross. I was
guaranteed it's a Romulan grapefruit of mine. Yeah, that's
going now it's definitely not the original. And there's also
pyramid seeds now in Spain, they've released a Romulan. But
it's also but it's a Romulan cross that I had in Spain that
my friend of mine is making for them. So selling is not the
Romulan as well. But it's it's got some Romulan genetics in it.
Yeah, I know other than other growers that might have the
something as close as me would be Vic High. Yeah. No, yeah,
yeah. He did. But he had a really good version of it as
well. Yeah, a little bit more of a fruitier version, but it was
nice. It was very nice. Yeah.
So that's awesome. Yeah, I'm doing gonna be doing a lot more
work in the future here in South America.
Yeah, that's what I heard. I'm excited.
Actually, next week, I'm going to Chile and to Argentina. Again,
so I'm setting up working with a few breeders down there with my
genetics to try it down in their climate. And that's one thing in
South America, too, especially in Chile, they get a lot of
rain. So there's a lot of interest in our mold resistant
strains down there. That's awesome. teaming up with a few
breeders down there. And so we'll see how it goes.
So I hope it goes well.
The facility in Canada and operation. But in Canada with
legalization, there's not much money to be made here anymore.
Yeah, it's really, really difficult to make a living. And
the people are just bombarded with store weed. There's a store
on every corner. And unless you're a real grower who's
really passionate about it. People here don't buy by steeds
anymore. And there's so many other breeders that just flooded
the market. Yep. I just don't see much of a future myself for
myself in Canada anymore. So gonna probably start making the
transition. Yeah, over the next, the next few months or the next
year. So
it's only a matter of time before, in my opinion, for the
US is is just right behind you guys. And the way that you're
seeing it, I think is that is really a very realistic and
smart direction. I really, really believe that. Are you
going to be doing any land race hunting while you're down there?
I'm not well, I'm gonna be bringing some of them my my
Colombian, and a few of those strains for people down there to
grow out and test out. Yeah, some moms. But at first, my
first gonna get established down there with my flagship strains
like the Romulan, the island sweets, dynamite, the time warp.
My most popular strains gonna get established first before I
get too experimental down there. Yeah, yeah, right. So
one of the things I'll say about, about the Romulan is, is
as we are, as we're all getting older, you know, a lot of things
for especially for new smokers and stuff like that. They hear
things like nl5 or Romulan or this or that or whatever. And
they're famous names that they know almost nothing else about.
And so Romulan is definitely one that whether or not you have any
access to the real Romulan, or you just have a hybrid or
whatever, the name is going to get used because it's a catchy
name. It's stuck. It's part of cannabis history now. And it was
prevalent enough and popular enough that young people, they
want to try the best things of yesteryear. And there's people
out there that want to give them what they want, whether they
have it or not. You know,
yep. That's for sure. Yeah, with my Romulan, when I moved back to
Canada, my partner was like, hey, just work on that Romulan
because everybody asked for it. And I've been working for five
years now, before I get to release it, because now I'm
confident in what it is. I'm happy to put my name behind it.
But we three years we got asked to bring the Romulan back and I
guess I'm working on it, but I'm not going to release it
until I'm proud to put my name behind it. So yeah, we're
finally at that point now.
You know, it's funny, I was talking to your partner. And
he's like, yeah, you know, I know a little bit, but I was
mostly on the backside, you need to talk to Jay. He's like, I
used to run a seed bank, you've probably never heard of it. It
was called kind and I was like, Oh, this one, here's your
catalogs. I had like a big collection of old catalogs read
out of his old catalog to him. He was stoked. He's a cool guy.
I like him.
Yeah, he ran the kind seed, all the shipping into the business
from the UK for 17 years. He lived there and he became close
personal friends with all the big Dutch breeders, him and Ari
and are good friends. And he just knows about shipping seeds
anywhere in the world. And he's a super friendly guy on the
phone. So I've known him for 25 years. So every any customer
that talks to him on the phone, he makes them happy.
Oh, I bet. So yeah, I have to interview him sometime as well.
Because just the his side of the business is, to me is just as
important as you know, even the breeding side of the business if
there was a lot of history, he knows so much history and back
stories about what went on behind the scenes who got what
when you know who, who got what batch of seeds when in know what
behind what strain probably, you know, he probably has a lot of
info like that.
As far as the Dutch, yeah, as far as the Dutch scene goes, he
knows that very, very well. Yeah, better than the British
Columbia scene because he was over there during those days.
Kind seed was one of the biggest seed sellers. Yeah, to America
in those days. It's kind of like seeds men or attitude seeds are
now. Yeah, I'm seeing what back then so he had a good personal
relationship with all the breeders. Yeah, he's one of the
few people that I know has been in Arians breeding rooms where
mother plants are crazy. Yeah.
That's cool. That's really cool. Well, man, I have so much more I
could go over like I have a list of massive list of strains and
everything we can go over. I'd love to pick your brain some
more. We're hitting right around two hours now. So I was gonna
wrap it up because you've taken a lot of your time. But I just
wanted to thank you for coming on and speaking with us about
all these strains. I appreciate you also for keeping track of
your work. Like from a breeder perspective. I respect that a
lot like you you're able to speak your lines. You know your
lines you remember the males you you know all that that's that's
not a common thing and I highly respect that's something that's
something you can't fake it's it's stuck in my head. I
remembered I could think back 25 I smell a plant. I'm like, Oh,
that smells like something I do 22 years ago and it was in this
town under this light and it was me and I just ate a hot dog
you know it's yeah memories.
I feel that I mean Matt and I we talk a lot about there's certain
people that you talk to and they're extremely vague about
some of the stuff that they do and for me being like a you know
a weed nerd or something like that since it's like so much of
my life. Like someone wants to talk about it. Like you said, I
can be like, Oh, yeah, it was like I did this and it would
smell like that. This happened and I remember I was in you were
wearing that because it's just so hard. You know, you can talk
confidently about stuff that because you spend every day with
it. People won't realize that growing and breeding is day in
day out. You have to have success. Yeah. And you have to
stack those days together for a long period of time to get to
where you want to go.
Yeah, and there's no days off. None takes take your whole life.
Yeah, you don't travel you move.
All right. I'm traveling.
I want to thank you for having me on. Yeah, thanks for having
me on. It was we can chat again sometime if you want to get
through the rest of your list.
It would be an absolute pleasure, man. Anytime. Anytime.
So yeah, thank you so much. I hope you have a wonderful
evening and we'll talk to you soon.
You too, man. All right. Take care.
What?
It was like it was like I was connected with everything
around me. All of a sudden I just started questioning
everything I'd ever been told. You know, by the time I got high
that very first time when it started to hit me. I'm like,
wow. I got high.
