What's up everyone? I almost did the show on the other account because it's back
up for live feeds but I figured I already told everyone we'd be doing it
here so fuck it right. The last time you'll be seeing this background we're
getting ready I mean we've been moving but finally moving the last of this
stuff probably this weekend so it'll be a whole new background whole new
everything no more ugly fucking checker wall which is awesome yeah so what's up
everyone yes I play this guitar sometimes this is one that has special
pickups and it's uh what do they call them
Seymour Duncan P rails I think yeah it's a brooder to cramp everyone we
will be joined by CSI and not so dog in a few not so it's been a little under
the weather so I'm gonna try to hold it down for him this week he's got the
chest aids so yeah you'll miss the ska wall yeah ugly ass wall though what my
choice but next one will be so we'll see how it goes
sweet fuckwork so Rob oh yeah I got my curly shirt on the man the myth the
legend no I actually really suck at guitar to be honest with you I can play
punk rock and old reggae tunes and some northern soul that's about it how much
is rent out here the place I'm leaving was three thousand a month the where I'm
going slightly less because we bought so it's twenty three hundred roughly a
little bit more but not much it's a lot smaller than this place as far as the
house but the property is big so kind of stoked on that tonight we will be
covering oh what do you smoke and expels tonight we will be covering the forum
era post 2006 which really was I mean I chose that because that's when I come in
so mostly the tail end of overgrow cannabis world a little bit I don't
remember when planet ganja dipped out some grass city troll it up
pop-pimp tricone Kings the farter stuff like that there's a CD post up the icy
mag of course there's a big point to it too and it's that a lot of people like
that weren't around during the forums it's really easy to tell who they are
and the ones that pretend like they were it's also really easy to tell that they
were because or that they weren't because they only reference the ones that
are still up and only quote the forms that are still up which is a very very I
can't I can't mention that one sub Rob since it's private I don't want to
mention it try to follow rules on that one but um yeah I mean if people try to
put stuff all the time but you're only seeing a brief glimpse of what happened
back then some of the most salacious fucking horrible shit went down on
sites like C Depot where a lot of people started popping up a lot of people that
are selling seeds are popping up on C Depot and I'm sure they are super stoked
that you can't find that shit but we do have the way back machine and I actually
haven't tested that for C Depot so we'll see yeah ganja planet ganja was on way
back machine as well but only certain threads were it was really hard to find
any consistency and why certain things were or not oh here we go there's not so
see I wonder if I can still bring in Caleb once I bring in the best we got a
teacher now to do that we'll see how long request to join how do I add in
people wasabi invite to join okay that's all right
now what's up dude I exist you know you look like you're not dead yet I am
definitely not dead good deal good I'm in need of a haircut shit so yeah what's
up with the third party waiting for him wait for him for a few minutes I just
talked to him we'll be on fantastic yeah so I was just telling everyone we're
gonna be going over the forum era post overgrow so 2006 roughly and on and I
was explaining how there are a lot of forums still up that were around during
that time like the farm I see mad troll it up some of the some of the others
that came around that time but there are a lot that are not up and people that
like to pretend that they were around back then often reference the ones that
are still up that they can go back and like reread and pretend like hey I was I
was there I know what's going on but they're missing like 90% of the
conversations that were going on because those aren't even accessible any longer
one of the things I noticed about that era is that you know a lot of times we
catch people on stuff because people go back to bullshit yes and they read you
know threads and things like that to pick up years and tidbits and
information that like make their their story sound better yeah but they weren't
there to know who was who or like who to take seriously or what was
misinformation even then yeah you know and so a lot of times it's a tell you
know it is a big tell it's a big tell but to someone that never read any of
those forums you can come out and confidently start jabbing about a bunch
of stuff yeah and sound like you were there yeah I'm not I'm not gonna say
anybody's name but someone made a post the other day that obviously was not
around on the forums and said you know X person got cloned from Y person got
cloned from Z person and it was just super off like the most off it could be
I mean we I'm that's learning from me I try we try not to name names when it's
not but it was pretty funny the chain of custody yeah that was asserted you
know you just had you just had to laugh at a certain point but yeah I will say
even back then like you know I don't know exactly know how to describe it but
I would say that like like overgrow even had some of the best commentary but also
some of the worst like you kind of the forums really helped figuring out what
you were doing if you already went in there with some connection and some
ability to discern yeah you know cannabis world was a little bit more
like where the adults gathered yeah overgrow you could have like everyone
from like some 17 year old kid shit posting you even though we didn't use
that term back then yeah to like Camara and Sam skunk man and PhDs and breeding
talking shit and another in another area yeah so it really was like a cross
section of weed in America my main my main thing would be like I would compare
that to like grass City from my era grass City and roll it up we always
called it troll it up but those two were like what everybody would say like
that's where everybody everybody had an account on those pretty much because
that's where everybody started at during that era and then slowly you'd see
people migrate but then those the ones that hung out in that area area kind of
never really seem to go anywhere as far as their knowledge or making any headway
with anything really that's how I saw it yeah I mean and you know it should be
said to that like you know there was different different forums had different
I don't know different ethics maybe is the best way to put it yeah you know
some some were more lightly moderated and things got left up you know
obviously like hate speech and various other aspects was was eliminated you
know or but a lot of times you know unlike IG or whatever you know if you
didn't like the threads got let they might get locked if arguments got too
heated but they would yeah we'd be left yeah we're in today's environment on IG
a lot of times people just get rid of it yeah oh yeah it's all it's all what do
you call that curated it's all curated as soon as it starts going off the rails
or as soon as they start seeing information they don't want out there
yeah they'll just delete comments or they'll delete the whole thread or
they'll turn off comments yeah right away you know and then you know I see mag
you know there was you know there was an in crowd and out crowd mm-hmm you know
definitely I was the out crowd I I think I had a record for being the person most
banned from every forum and it I think I mean I even had my own forums back in
the day that people rocked on you know it got bad I mean it was interesting in
the sense that like in the beginning in overgrowing cannabis world and stuff I
was super excited and I got on there to share information with a bunch of people
and then you know but I was always nervous about doing any kind like you
know I lived in Mendo or whatever so I didn't really need to like meet new weed
people yeah but I liked learning what other people far away knew yeah but a
lot of people used it in the DMS to trade clones and do all this type of
stuff I never really did that I was more like an in-person kind of kind of guy
yeah and then when obviously when heaven stairway got in trouble and they shut
all that down yeah I got scared so you know this era that we're gonna talk
about like 2006 on it really is CSI and Matt's era yeah it really is where you
know I might have been lurking a little bit and poking around here and there and
even some other friends of ours that aren't going to join like our buddy
high and lonesome oh yeah yeah you know there was some people that were that
were extremely active in that area sure and know a lot of the who you know who
is who is a jackass who was kind who was a problem back then you know where stuff
came from and one of the interesting things about weed is that it reinvents
itself every five or ten years yeah so you get all these new people coming in
and people get to rebrand themselves yeah now it's happening every six
months it seems yeah well it's modern fast turnover yeah modern marketing
Martin I mentioned that I mentioned this before but it was kind of like what the
what the old Deadheads told me about how dead tour used to be before the
Grateful Dead had touch a gray a big hit yeah it was small everybody knew kind of
got vetted in you know things didn't change that much and then you know oh
my god big ups to Danimal okay so then and then and then there was a top day at
a top ten hit and literally hundreds of thousands of new people showed up yeah
and how do you assimilate them into your community that fast yeah you can't
really yeah you know it becomes difficult so a lot of times like old
timers or whatever they feel overwhelmed yeah because like the norms
of their community and what they could expect you know and instead of being
like a respected elder somebody's like who the fuck is this guy yeah why do I
have to listen to you yeah you know where before when it was smaller like
those people might have had respect yeah yeah it's a much it did get very
different and I want to say it wasn't quite at cookies where everything took a
big swing but it wasn't much long after cookies came around that the forum the
whole idea of forums kind of changed but I think that also had to do with
Instagram which is also why cookies kind of even got even more blown up I think
social media yeah the kind of the difference between the I would say the
forums were mostly writing with some pictures where Instagram flipped it 180
degrees to being exactly all pictures with a little bit of writing yeah so you
see some of these old write-ups that people have and their paragraphs and you
know they're like a small essay yeah right where people ask me stuff all the
time on IG and it's really hard because it's like what are you gonna write a
novel in the comments yeah yeah it's kind of like you're trying to write
something that's like this long like what can I yeah it's like a haiku yes
how can I get my thing across in like X amount of syllables or four sentences
yeah yeah you kind of have to especially on Twitter right and then and then you
end up and then you end up leaving out a lot of nuance and detail where on the
forum era people could like write three or four paragraphs each back and forth
and some like can't be could write really really just bad really bad
illegible stuff for paragraphs and paragraphs I mean when you write
paragraphs you really realize why we invented punctuation yeah for sure you
know why we invented paragraphs in the first place spacing periods commas all
the various aspects it really helps because yeah you know what one of the
things that hurts you online is that nuance gets lost yeah it does are you
being sarcastic yeah being funny what's your body language you know all those
types of things you know yeah that was actually a good point you know in the
overgrow era digital cameras you know didn't exist yeah I mean I was talking I
was actually talking about that in the in the one that you missed because you
were you know you were otherwise occupied where it was like people
documenting their stuff really advanced a lot more when digital cameras came out
oh yeah and then exponentially once phones had cameras yeah once phones had
cameras it was all bets off the era where you had to get your own stuff
developed that's unsadly it's not oh yeah I imagine it's not very documented
I mean I was it I was at CSI's house I don't know half a year ago or something
like that we were looking through a couple of boxes of his Polaroids right
yeah but they fade yeah that I can't sucks they fade you know and maybe if he
would have kept them in some kind of like perfectly sealed environment with
the right humidity or something like that you know but yeah you're looking at
Polaroids from 95 or 6 or 7 or whatever and a lot of them the colors are
bleeding into each other and it's hard to make it's not it's not you know it's
not shark yeah you know yeah that sucks that sucks bad I would have never guessed
that until he told me that yeah I mean you know he's got a couple shoe boxes
full yeah and I have a business chops to get him fucking scanned I was like you
got to get those scanned at least for history's like don't do any good I mean
I had my I had my my my first daughter in oh nine you know and I think and I
can look back on my phone I think you know the first real camera on an iPhone
came out in 08 oh no no I don't remember yeah late oh late oh wait you know and
and that's kind of that that was a revolution in itself oh I'm sure because
yeah you can just pull it out of your pocket and be like there's my weed plant
click it's always amazing that with all these cell phones we don't really see
many like real documented UFO pics I know I'm it's kind of off-tangent but I just
thought about that well I will say as a as a you know somebody who's pulled a
lot of tarps in their day mm-hmm that you know a lot of times when you pull
tarp on you're doing light depth you're pulling tarp at six or seven o'clock at
night right yeah and then you go back out there after dark which in June might
be 930 or 10 o'clock at night mm-hmm right so pull the tarp off so everything
can breathe because you only want to darken it for as much as you need to
right oh yeah and you don't want to trap in all that moisture and yeah right so
you got to go out there and you know Mendo or whatever in the woods and
sometimes I would see the most beautiful skies the most beautiful moons just yeah
and your phone could not show you what my eyes could see oh yeah for sure I
would take I would take you know pictures and you know and it would just
never and I'd go online and look how do I take better night photos yeah and it's
just not a camera with like a nice lens and you know the ability to like you
know it's just not it's just meant to show dicks and tits that's all you're
supposed to be taking pictures of fellows ladies you know and and so you
know there's there's an aspect to that where it's like I can bet like if you
can't see like nobody can imagine how beautiful this full moon is tonight yeah
and you can't capture that well how are you gonna capture like I'm sure there's
like this is that there's a weird thing in the sky it's yeah I know how are you
possible you know especially back in 08 or 09 how am I gonna pull out my two or
two and a half megapixel camera yeah on my phone yeah I'm gonna like capture it
no you know it took a long time for phones to even begin to catch up to like
what 35 millimeter could do you're busting my skeptical comments not so
you know rushing my skepticism I fully believe that there are aliens I just
disbelieve most people that tell them try to tell me a bunch of facts about
them yeah yeah that's my sure there are I just don't know if they've ever been
near earth you know like I I have that that's where my skepticism comes in when
people start writing getting like very long YouTube's about all kinds of
specifics you know yeah I get weird yeah yeah I mean I'll say this you know and
then Kayla and then he's officially fucking late yeah but you know when we
were talking about the the early the early 2000s or whatever I you know I
did that whole episode when you weren't here yeah I was hunting so hard for old
stuff then stuff from the 80s stuff from the 70s hell even stuff from some of the
90s yeah and it was a royal bitch and then nobody cared about it and I and I
searched for years and years and years and you know like we have a pretty good
network of friends yeah you know and it was really hard and now within the last
five years as ancient stuff has become popular mm-hmm and I'm not please don't
take this the wrong way if anybody's holding anything but I've never seen so
much like 79 blueberry 72 you know Brotherhood of Eternal Love
Acapulco gold you know 74 wahaken you know this that like all these 70s and 80s
strange all the famous strains of your yeah hey hey it's not dark it's just
blurry what do you got he's in that fog you smudge your camera on purpose he
blew a lot on the camera so there well wait the Sun's going down so you know
good to see you dude thanks for showing up right right so yeah we were just
talking about the different you know what was kind of going around post 2006
it was the end of the overgrow era and of the cannabis world era and maybe
maybe you could talk about some of the things that you saw during those those
that integral period between the end of overgrow and the beginning of things
like the farm what kind of what kind of strains were people fucking with around
man what was the hot shit are you talking about like oh six on oh six to
like oh six to oh wait somewhere in there yeah yeah yeah I mean I think
that's when chem dog really started become unpopular yeah and chem D came
out I think I honestly think that that's the year you know mass G posted
up on IC mag although that oh yeah that thread is gone oh is that thread gone I
did my research I think it's gone is that the creation of sour D1 no no no
that's oh that was overgrow that was okay so yeah that that's well long gone
unless somebody has archives so do you remember like around overgrow what kind
of the strains what kind of strains were mostly popular around that time like in
the in that end of overgrow era Amsterdam strains Dutch Dutch shit yeah
how about Canadian stuff yeah BC stuff yeah it was kind of it was kind of like
a lot of the stuff that was that some of those Ron parties yeah yeah yeah right
we're actually where Caleb and I first met you know it was a lot of White
Widow and blueberry and a lot of the work coming out of Switzerland was right
then so like the sweet tooth the blockhead the Louie genius yeah you know
and and c99 were around back then for sure genius c99 you know I forget is
genius Apollo but you know the Apollo 11 and 13 hybrids of all that stuff and it
was it was pre pre reversals you guys hadn't really started your revolution
yet so it was all males well we were borderline starting it that's yeah I was
just kicking off I mean Hyde was Hyde was selling his exe way back in like I
don't know what Oh to maybe even earlier yeah on a cannabis world and I did my
first you know real reversal in oh six intentional reversal intentional
reversal I I did that one reversal where you know I took a bunch of pollen from
that Urkel back in like 304 and yeah yeah that was Oh 304 and pollinated a
bunch of stuff on purpose yeah but that that was just that freak thing so yeah
now it's kind of yeah it kind of counts it counts it does count it was with
intention yeah yeah I mean they're there there I did have some friends that I
mean we didn't use I didn't we didn't know anything about any of the any of
the chems you could spray on plants but people used to try to torture their
plants to get them to free if it was if you knew it could harm sometimes you
could put it into too small of a pot you could let it get dry you could beat it
up a bit you could try to collect see if it could throw some that was like the
that was like our way of you know right can you beat it up enough to get some
pollen off it remember a Soma's Soma's way you just flower them out for like 80
or 90 days and get a couple bananas yeah wrote a lot of utilization yeah yeah I
don't know where he got that term from for it but yeah I remember yeah yeah
special guy actually I did like is this when his book came out or whatever I do
like the Soma beds I don't know that they were interesting they were
interesting they're just they're just deep indoor beds on wheels yeah no yeah
basically what they were you know with with you know some drainage in the
bottom and some layering you know maybe they have some rocks and they have some
like and then they have a layer of ground cover or something and then you
put soil on top and and they have you ever seen huh they had the air tubes on
them in all four corners where the air can down to the lower roots you would
look like big pieces of PVC with holes drilled in and you would put those on
the side and those would go all the way in the corners to the bottom yeah yeah
that you would actually and that would connect to the gravel at the bottom so
bring air yeah yeah it wasn't the worst idea no no I've done that actually trees
and especially for well it's not so much you had to go trees you know I mean you
know look at look at look at a bunch of you could you could actually grow a bed
with you know homie style with 25 or 30 plants if you wanted yeah right right
you know and then you didn't have to worry about individual ones dying right
right because you just watered the bed and everything stays alive oh yeah I
used to use those no drain beds way back in a 2000 or so no drain beds just
shallow like six beds you know how'd that work out I did pretty good yeah
yeah um definitely some interesting stuff that was back in my not so organic
days I used I used to know this used to be pretty funny where I used to know a
lot of guys in Mendo that were organic like April through August and then come
August they're like not or September they're not quite seeing their buds get
as big as they want and then they figure like well what's one big tub of pink
powder gonna really do to my organic it's it's basically organic yeah yeah
just a couple a couple doses of this 0 50 30 it's gonna get me where I need to
be and it's gonna make it happy and I've been organic for five months already
you know so it'll all flush out at the end that it's definitely still organic
yeah that stuff was us yeah bud blaster three cheers for grow more yeah but a
lot was the but but blaster was the was the Canadian heady version yeah yeah it
was Canadian it was it was it was it was one of those you know powdered
whatever it was all this it was all the same there was a bunch of people that
came out with 0 50 30 and tried to make it seem like their 0 50 30 was special
right monosodium one thing I'll say about the the bud blaster is that they
had a they had their own special grinder mm-hmm so their powder was super
fine and it actually dissolved some of the cheap stuff you get there in like a
thousand gallon tank or whatever and you're up on a ladder and you're dumping
stuff like that in there and then you get some softballs at the bottom that
you're like wondering how to hit with a stick to break up because it wouldn't
actually dissolve yeah you know right so but that's off topic you know I suppose
we should probably ratchet back around so we got to convince we got to convince
Caleb and Matt to talk because this is really their era yeah this is oh six oh
seven oh eight oh nine this is not my online presence right so the various
characters the various things that were going on the stuff that was happening
it's pretty much this is when these two you know CSI used to be known as
you know white trash redneck but yeah you know but that but that's where I
mean you know archive was doctor or the doctor yeah right yeah yeah you know
it's where a lot of the Monica a lot of the oldest nicknames and monikers people
still kind of reference each other like by some of those first names yeah mm-hmm
I don't know nobody's real name didn't need to ain't no purpose in it you know
and unlike IG you didn't you never a lot of these people you never saw yeah
my chick always asked me like what what's his name I'm like I don't
fucking know why the fuck would I ask him that you know that's just weird yeah
she thinks I'm a freak for not knowing anybody's first names after all these
years I don't fucking know I don't know I could do his taxes for him the fuck
then you know that for it was very it was very similar to that on like we're
on dead tour and stuff like that because everybody you know everybody had
a nickname yeah yeah you know everybody had a nickname yeah but yeah I mean
maybe maybe you guys could talk about like you know who who who were some of
the big I don't want to say the word influencer maybe but who are some of the
people that were sort of like driving the conversations who are you excited to
hear you know posting on stuff like and then maybe just like how hard it was to
get information back then because a lot of these forums you know you guys were
talking about the chem dog you know there was an aspect where the reason why
you know somebody like you know skunk VA has his name or chem dog 101 or any of
these things is because I had some form or another on IC mag or whatever it was
the first time these things started getting argued about and debated yeah by
people outside and a lot of times what happens too is that these things become
references because then you've got this guy comes out and says this thing on IC
mag at this year and then three years later on whatever on roll it up let's
say he's saying this and now on IG he said this and this you know and they
always they always want to be like this is the most current story this is what
you should believe yeah yeah and in some cases those forms don't exist
anymore and they're very fortunate that they don't and you know one of the one
of the ways that CSI got his reputation as inspector is he was really good at
using your own words against you hey well I just but I just mean in the sense
of someone would like confidently say this this this this and this and then he
would be like well why did you write in your own words that bastard it's right
how do you how do you make these two things come together I've got a bunch of
swerve quotes I can share you know and that's a lot of thing most people
probably don't even know who swerve is but there's been there's been a bunch of
people you know that come that you know flash in the pans that come and go yeah
they come up they have their moment they they they spew a bunch of shit they make
a bunch of money all of a sudden their stories start to implode right yeah and
you know in some cases they rebrand themselves and sell it again do it to
the to the new badge right right you know who I looked up to is gonna be a lot
different than maybe who Caleb looked up to because when I first started coming
in it was way different than when Caleb started coming in you know so who like
who were you looking up to during those years or who who is who do you think was
influencing really well that that had some respect during those years um I
mean I like you know just just for information you know alone I liked Joe
brand I liked you know chem dog mass G yeah you know skunk VA yeah and then on
like the OG side of things you know I was I always liked you know Big Ricky he
was old family red back then I actually a lot of people don't even know but I
named my old family purple my first TK hybrid kind of after his old handle old
family red you know I didn't even know that yeah you know I get connected yeah
I gave him a lot of credit you know chrome that was those were the years
chrome was starting out with the white you know yeah he actually was growing
some of my my hybrids and then he introduced the white when he was growing
them so yeah that's when that started I I think I was mostly into Bubba's OG's
and chem dogs back then yeah but uh what what were your your main main
interest though so when I popped in you know like Shanti Baba was still pretty
big and still had a good name a lot of the stuff I was looking at when I came
in was was Dutch stuff I really didn't focus a lot on Americans at the time
because I just didn't I wasn't hip to it you know I hadn't right when I came in I
wasn't hip to the fact that all those dudes were white labeling and most the
Americans were making their seeds or Spanish or actually back then I don't
even know who was making the motherfuckers seeds you know right but
yeah I mean it was very different I mean greenhouse hadn't been totally trashed
it was still kind of under the radar for new people at the time that that they
were doing anything you know untoward DNA was massive during those years they
were why I started doing six seeds a pack because their shit was six seeds a
pack and they were the ones selling the most I was like okay I guess that's what
you do you know what I mean right yeah and then sub cool of course it just
started fucking taking off and I was fortunate that I met Sonny Chiba very
early on so I learned very quickly oh maybe that guy isn't someone I should be
looking at for breeding tips you know right right it took me a while but I got
it yeah that's it was it was a much different take you know it's interesting
then because that's kind of when everybody first came out of the shadows
yeah and you can walk out of the shadows with any stories you wanted
about yourself or the strains or whatever else and a lot of times you
were the only person you know from Sam's got man on yeah you were the only part
you were the only person telling the story about those strengths right right I
mean you remember huh the audience was so small finding people who are actually
there you know was was very difficult yeah it was it was a lot smaller than
now I just don't you think people that came later can grasp how small the
community was mm-hmm and how she what information was mm-hmm now it's pretty
rapid-fire right you know and a lot of people connect all the time oh yeah
somebody said crunch bubble you know that guy I mean he that guy used to move
massive amounts of what was it blue dot through the third floor in Oakland you
know he had all those warehouses of 600 watt HPS is on hydro tables bumping out
a bunch of stuff for third floor but it was you know what what's funny about
that guy is that some of those pictures were like some of the first warehouse
scenes that people were willing to like throw up on IG on on the internet yeah
most people were growing in closets or bedrooms or greenhouses or in the woods
or wherever and all of a sudden you see a 40 lighter right and for a lot of
people that was the first time right it might look rudimentary now yeah now yeah
but even just like five or six or something like that you know finding
people and I think too that like what most people don't understand maybe is
that a lot of the a lot of the breeders like that got famous later like a couple
people on the show or whatever like almost all the breeders were European or
American or Canadian yeah right and the people that were working breeding in
America were generally doing it through friendship circles mm-hmm there was a
lot of trading and via DM amongst friends and amongst contemporaries it
wasn't like like on you know at least from what I remember it wasn't like oh
I've got a big drop coming next Friday here's the 50 here's the 15 here's the
names I made up for him here's the hybrids here's where you can get them
here's how we're gonna sell them all it was like you know you'd trade seeds when
you saw people or people were trade selling them via DM or something like
that like but it was different I remember as far as Americans went there
was not a lot of Americans doing direct sales on websites you would never really
see that like it was all done you know DMS or like on weird little auction
sites that were floating around but other than that there wasn't a really
good way to market yourself as an American breeder without mostly giving
seeds away to people I mean did you have that experience CSI mm-hmm I I
didn't get involved in any of I wanted to back in the 06 08 era I looked into
it but you know I was still way too paranoid to do any of that stuff yeah I
should have done it you know like you know DNA and sub cool and hell even
swerve you know yeah you know I mean all those guys you know made huge names
because there wasn't competition yeah there was no competition you didn't
really have to have a whole lot of talent to be very successful yeah no
what you said mr. soul handled all of SSC in the 80s well I mean what's
interesting about that is that you know there's been a lot there's been a lot
of talk about American SSC right yeah and you know Matt and myself got to
interview the owner who was very cool and you know all that kind of stuff got
put to rest yeah hard there wasn't there wasn't any
American help but that for maneuver but it goes but it goes to show how you know
in our world you can kind of step out of the shadows and be like oh I mean there
was a lot of people that you know they came out of the shadows and they were
the first time that people were like you know oh I'm I this is my cut yeah and
then it turns out that they just got the cut early yeah but they got a few years
of like oh if you want to use my cut you got to give me 50% of the proceeds of
the seeds or you got to pay me or you got a this or you got a that it's my
work it's my my my my and then it comes out later that they just got it from
these other people early but they were the first one to go public right you
know and a lot of times what happened is is that the first person to go public
you know got credit yeah yeah you know you know they got credit and their story
was the story for a minute and sometimes other people would get upset and get
online and start you know I mean I actually think that's kind of what got
you know you were talking about chem that's kind of what got chem online was
you know skunk VA got online a bit you know and started talking about different
things and then we're like oh my weeds famous I should talk about it right and
then that got and then that got that got Joe brand and and P bud and other people
that hadn't really met met up or like even linked or even realized what was
going on after fifteen years to connect right because of stories.
707 seed bank Shabba he's the one who you know got skunk VA on to overgrow and
I see mag to actually post about that stuff otherwise I think there'd be a
completely different chem dog history oh yeah if he hadn't done that you know do
we remember what the very very first claim of the chem dog seed not
necessarily the first one people remember but the very first claims of
chem dog who is the first one to claim that string was it even Greg or were
there other people popping up as it was getting popular going that's mine I'm
bread that shit I don't remember anybody claiming it lots of people claiming they
have the 91 or oh yeah yeah sure it's just like well I don't know how all
these different cuts could be hit there right one oh you know because it's
purple that's how you know when it hurts I saw a few chem dog cats and
they they some of them look like a mass super skunk chem dogs yeah but that
that just basically means somebody bought some weed that was was called
chem dog and it had some seeds in it and whatever I pollinated that chem dog you
know it can dogs not a bad hermaphrodite just by itself I mean not so
yeah you know no and so usually if you find seeds in your chem dog you know
it's been pollinated by something else yeah well there was there was also a
thing too that was there was really confusing I think and this isn't
anything against Greg or chem dog but you know it's it's like for people that
want specific lineages he was pretty famous for you when you buy weed you're
buying chem dog weed from chem dog it didn't really matter exactly what it
was it was weed from chem dog and so I think that created confusion too because
everyone was like oh it's this one specific thing you know but it really
was chem dog just branding I mean back then branding was branding you know it
was it was it was early it was an early form of branding yeah sure you know and
people weren't and a lot of these guys were young and nobody knew especially
then when things first started getting famous I don't think anybody knew that
some of these strains were gonna be so lastingly famous mm-hmm so a lot of
times they wrote down various stories or this or that and they didn't really
expect it to get become part of canon or become part of the fabric of the tale
and then they have to look back and defend it you know and you know it's
hard for people sometimes to say you know my memory was a little that's what
I remembered at the time you know right after more after more information came
out and I talked to more friends I've kind of revised a little bit because
other people had it's hard for people to say that a lot of times you would dig in
their heels yeah and then you've got two or three or four versions of the story
and you're trying to figure out which one works mm-hmm which one is the most
believable right you know what what's your favorite wildest story from the
forum errors that you knew I mean you that that you knew was kind of like
that's too fucking stupid to even be possible do you have any that stick out
where you're like that was a bold fucking claim and really wonky what
comes to mind when I say that okay so I hate to keep bringing up my boy swerve
it doesn't really have a whole lot to do with him but the guy he got pretty much
most all of his early og cuts from in 0607 this guy had an account on IC mag
and then he made up another account and I think this was in 07 and he made up
another account pretending to be his own mentor you know with all the same
spelling errors all the same you know type styles all that and he made a whole
thread on it and acted like you know he was the original creator of the OG Kush
blah blah blah and his boy right here his little student you know he's he's
best student I ever had. We hooked him up we laced him with all those those cuts
we've held since the 80s. There's still that story on on IC mag it's still on.
You know and I'm up in there with a bunch of other clowns just laughing away.
You know but that that one right there was it was pretty much the tops for for
me back in those days. I got one for you. I got one for you. Little old lady with
Asian fantasy. Oh that was a really good one too. I like it was a good one. Yeah.
Yeah. That one was was there was a string called Asian fantasy made famous I think
I think it's fair to say about the canon Bible. Jason King pretty much made that
string very much so. You know known it wasn't a well known strain I don't think was it.
No no no no. And you know he he talked about the rarity and how this guy never lets it
out blah blah blah. A few years later a person that we we we know who it was but I don't
think he'll ever admit it. Right. Went on and tried to say that she was the the wife
of the man who held Asian fantasy and he has died and she wants to get those genetics
out there you know and ended up I think it's pretty sure it was NYC kid kind of big upping
himself trying to give himself some provenance on a cut he never had access to. Well we don't
honestly we don't know that part of it because who have you or anybody ever seen this Asian
fantasy keyword fantasy outside of the canon Bible and NYC kid and his crew. No I mean
it's kind of a fantasy. Yeah and in fact African black magic. I mean there's some there's some
pictures of it or whatever but I mean Jason King even talked about how homey wouldn't
give it out to anyone and you know was it was a massive hoarder of it you know. And
so there's an aspect to it there too where it's like people people can hoard something
so much that it doesn't become famous. Yeah. Right. You know because nobody ever sees it
like before before this forum time that you were talking about there was probably like
you know four or five people or something in California that had the chem 91. And someone
just said I have Asian fantasy s ones from T.H. Gobs. So we still do it. Go NYC kid you
go. But yeah I mean it was like one of those things where like if you know if if O.G. Kush
if some of the if some of these famous things don't slip out and people don't start cropping
them you know there was an aspect where it was like for a long time there was only four
or five garages pumping chem 91. Yeah. Like every you know. So how much weed is that.
Not very much. It doesn't really give you very much opportunity to try it. Doesn't really
get give you an opportunity for like a fad to you know like if O.G. hadn't snuck out
if all those guys hadn't been money hungry down there in L.A. and it snuck out it probably
wouldn't have had that kind of impact. Yeah. Because it has to be there. You have to be
able to get even even if you have to pay a lot for it you do have to be able to access
it. Right. So Asian fantasy is one of those things where like it you know it never got
out. And then yeah. So as a result of that it allowed scammers to be like this is it.
Right. And how could you tell the difference. Hey you know you still you still buddies with
the with old Jason. Mr. King. I haven't spoken to him in a minute but we're cool. Yeah. He
lives on Maui. I know. I wonder if you can ask him kind of maybe some of it because I
talked to him before I like met you met you. Yeah. You know he he he affirmed that you
know all my information was right. And then he was like where'd you where'd you find all
this stuff out. You know I mean he might know some some background details that you know
definitely didn't make it into the book. But I bet. One of the one I've been actually thinking
about reaching out and talking to him because one of the things that's interesting is that
he probably has a shit ton of pictures of weed from myself and my and some and friends
and then people that I don't know obviously too but that didn't make it in the book. Yeah.
Because you know you might take you know dozens or hundreds of pictures or something and then
to make it. Yeah. You pick a couple. You know and all that. But he you know and I think
the Asian fantasy that he was talking about was in Hawaii. I have to ask. I want to say I remember
and I could be totally wrong so maybe I shouldn't say it but I think I think Bodhi knows the Asian
fantasy person maybe. I might be wrong. I don't know I'm gonna ask him. So we'll figure it out.
I mean to me it's one of the it's it's one of those like legendary strains you know that like
just never I mean you know I'll mention another one. Do any of you guys have any any experience
with Elvis? Yes. Yes. But I don't know if it was I don't know how real it was. It was just
a cut called Elvis. Because there's some really famous stuff out there that just it was never in
my crew. Never in like the extended circles of crews and you hear about him for a long time and
it got famous in various aspects but it's just like you know. I also thought I had Albert Walker
too though. So there is that you know like who knows who knows. Never got it from a good source
that they could say yes this is where I got it. None of that shit. Last one I had I passed off
to Skunkmaster Flex and I don't think he backed it up. And your Albert Walker was the orangey one
right? Yep. Dago Walker. Yeah. Good old Dago. Did you ever see the Mothership come through? I can't
remember if you said yeah. Yeah. So I told this story before but like it got mailed to one of our
spots. So Jason King's I don't think it's shade to say this but his girlfriend at the time was
this chick named Rebecca. Yeah. And she was from Asheville area of North Carolina. And so she you
know he used to rave about that cut all the time. And so she finally got some of her friends to send
it to us. Yeah. Right. And dude it was like our buddy High and Lonesome has a terrible story.
But it was kind of like that in the sense where I was expecting to get this tiny little box with
some clones. And we got this box that was like you know this big by two feet tall or whatever.
And it was two Mothership plants in one gallon pots with stakes and each one was about 18 inches
tall. And oh three or something like that. And it was like so all those pictures in the can of
Bible that you see of Mothership those all came from those two moms that got mailed to us. Yeah.
And then we mom those out. And you know it got they got grown at Eddie Leps and they got grown
to various friends houses and stuff like that. So I actually had I actually I had the Mothership
for four or five years I think. And it wasn't I think it was a super unique plant. It wasn't one
of I didn't have it didn't have the nicest flavor. I didn't really like the flavor that much but it
had a pretty cool high. And it did this weird thing where it would fall half over but then
hold itself up. So like you know how most branches if they flop they flop. It would like flop but
then it would like raise itself up and it would grow sideways through your garden.
Almost kind of a little like train wreck. It would get would catch itself.
And just like and it had like these it was a really odd sativa.
It had thin leaves and it was big branchy thing. But you know I mean I honestly like compared to
all the other shit we've been talking about like Bubba's and Kem's and you know Super
Scum. It was it was a little midsy you know in all reality. But it was one of those things that
probably like was genetically very different than everything else. So I like you know we like those
weird things. Real quick to touch back on Elvis since you were you were on THC Farmers stuff for
a long time right Caleb? Or at least attentive to it. I was on the outskirts of the Devil's Harvest
crew back in those days too. And there was there was some of those guys that one circulated through
that crew a good bit. And it started I think E-Rock from maybe like I don't know if I should
say a state. It's a long time over. You know I think he's he circulated Elvis for a while through
there. I wouldn't be surprised if a doctor maybe had grown it. He was he was real good buddies with
a lot of those cats. And I mean the whole time I was I was online I only I only traded cuts
through the mail maybe. I only received cuts through the mail twice I think. Yeah I like you
know 40 50 plus you know packages of cuts. But I only received twice. I did all my other business
just in person up and down the west coast. So that's me. I'm very much I'm in person.
Do you remember Miss Elvis from the farm? I wasn't very active on the farm at all. Very very little.
It was a person who showed like they were the main person showing the the Elvis cut back then.
There was something called like the Pink Cadillac cut and then there was the Elvis cut.
That's that's the only person I ever got it from. But I never they disappeared like not even a month
after giving it to me. But they were the ones that were always documenting it on the farm.
But I never knew if that was if it's just someone from that bullshit and made their way through
because they disappeared so fast. After me getting it from them. Was it super incensy?
No it was exactly like what they talk about like a vinyl smell.
Vinyl just artificial vinyl. Yeah not incensy at all. One of the things is kind of interesting
about that era too is it's kind of like the last era before like the the clone name dominance
thing started happening. Where everyone's growing OG or everyone's growing sour or everyone's
growing all that kind of stuff. So there was a lot of these odd strains. Not you know not odd
in the sense that there's anything wrong with them. Just odd odd random strains that were easily sold
you know. And so they they people liked them and they got traded. Yeah you know people weren't
looking necessarily for like oh I need to get this specific cut because I'm going to be able to move
it and it's going to go for X price. You know they were more interested in like the legend or the
history or whatever of said cut or the person behind it. And you could get on there and start
talking about your cut and all of a sudden drum up a bunch of interest. And especially like if we
wanted to go back you know when we were talking about how small it was. I mean think about how
revolutionary you know just some some of Matt's favorite some of blueberry stuff got you know
and how it looked. There wasn't that much competition. There wasn't that much stuff
outside of Europe or Shanti or Sensi or you know Simon from Sirius or some of that stuff. Like
there wasn't that many American breeders so the few people that were doing it like
like Mr. Soul or or DJ Short or whoever that were willing to to show their work. I think it kind of
got like outsized you know outsized impact. You know like Cindy 99 probably got way more famous
than it should have. You know just to be just to be just to be perfectly honest I don't think in
today it would have the same lasting impact. No not today. It wouldn't it wouldn't have it
wouldn't have been able to break through but it was like. So I do think because it is is like when
you try to think of an outdoor plant that's fast enough and still considered sativa to most people.
I think that it's it would be very hard to find a replacement for C99 that's that fast with those
type of high qualities and I think that also had a major effect because it was it's a perfect
outdoor plant for blasting fast you know and it could be grown indoors. I just mean it got like
all his work got real there wasn't that much competition so there was a lot of time to talk
about you know like not only Cindy 99 but like we're like the genius or the Apollo or this or
that or whatever or like you know everybody got plenty of time to debate the four or five things
that DJ released. Yeah because there just wasn't that there wasn't that many different things.
You know there wasn't that many now there's there's thousands of breeders.
And so standing out is very hard then it was like you know what was what was there like you know a
dozen big people doing stuff. Yeah it was a lot easier for people to fucking keep other people
down too like the ones at the top since there wasn't a lot of competition and they held a lot
of sway they could really cut fuckers throats real fast and it happened a lot too and it was a lot
easier to do that you know. I would have probably got cut then if I had even tried to start back then.
Dude I like I said I was banned off every forum and it got to the point where I was like fuck this
I'm gonna start my own forum like Mr. Nice I never got banned from. I got asked to leave after a
picture contest because the the right very pictures beat out one of Mr. Nice's and he
thought that was kind of fucked of me to put it in. But yeah all the rest of them it was really
hard because a lot of the ones a lot of people that were running those forums also had a seed
company. And most of those seed banks and seed companies would eventually start fucking people.
And if you were one of those people to speak up you're done you know they don't want you around.
Yeah I mean I see MAG definitely had some of that aspect to it too. Yeah there was the in
crowd and the out crowd you know for sure as far as that goes. I'm just surprised that forum is
still alive after everything that went on with it. Yeah see people somebody talked about that
people talk about 89 super skunk there was no 89 super skunk. One of the things that gets that
annoys the hell out of me honestly and this isn't to call out whoever has 89 super skunk but just in
general is like they'll take the first year that something was ever released or named and be like
I have that weed from a year or two before then. Yeah that's a big problem. Like so the first time
super skunk ever got used was in the 1990 seed bank catalog. Yeah that's when it had a picture
that's when it had a name that's when Neville released it you know. And so people are like oh
I've got the 89 super skunk. Well how? You know and then they're like oh you know then they got
to come up with like well you know it was all that pre-release special shit because my uncle was
buddies with homie who gave it down on special kickdown. Oh they'll be like you know you know
I got that 95 93 cents star. I actually have pictures of that 1989 super skunk and they look
awful cookie-ish. It's pretty pretty. But you know it happens all the time and then you see a lot of
these old cuts right now the years keep getting earlier and earlier. Yeah. You know I mean one
thing and this isn't you know this isn't to you know obviously uh bodies use this or whatever else
right but there is no G13 hash plant in the 88 catalogs. No no. It came out in the 89 catalog
for the first year. 89 and 90. You know but 88 is much better. It sounds nice you know and I'm not
trying to throw any shade on it or anything like that. There's plenty of people that have found
nice weed and you know Buddy made a bunch of hybrids with it and it came from ndn guy I think
right? Yeah yeah. Originally or whatever you know he reproduced it but it's like it got released in
89. Yeah. But everyone calls it the great you know the 88. Right. Close enough. You know.
All the details. Those that you know some of that first piff some of that first stuff they talk
about um they'll call it the great 88. Yeah. That shit got released in 89. So there's a bunch of
stuff out there where people will be like this cut is from a year or two before this line ever
got released. Here's a quick question though. I mean I have zero experience in this because I was
living in my you know hole in Humboldt. But you were there so or maybe you were there years later.
What was the possibility of them doing releases of their seeds at the canvas cups?
So that is true. It is possible like for instance the first canvas cup I went to the
was the Jack Herrera cup. Uh-huh. And the whole thing was themed on him right? Right. And it was
all about like it was the whole like all the festivities were all about the emperor wears no
clothes. And they released Jack Herrera seeds um you know from uh uh in 95.
94. Yeah 95. They released them but they it was you know it was late November.
Right. But it wasn't in the catalog till the following year.
Right. So it was like literally it was literally the first time for instance uh Jack was dropped
was at the can was at the cannabis cup. Right. In late November. So I suppose you could have gotten
it Jack Herrera at least six weeks before the year turned. Right. Right. You know I mean uh
for example Salmon Creek Big Bud um you know uh you know homeboy homeboy from Salmon Creek you
know he bought those seeds at the cup the year it won the cup and then smuggled 50 of those
seeds home in his little belt you know hide hide away belt thing. And yeah.
That's you know his selection from those uh Sensi Big Bud seeds or whatever is what
made Salmon Creek Big Bud. I mean that's that's definitely possible a lot of times
um a lot of new seed releases would get dumped in late November then. Because it was like an
industry gathering. Right. Right. And there was tons of and honestly there was tons of custies
there. I ended up hating going to Amsterdam for the cannabis cup. I went three times and then
never again. Mostly because it sucked. Uh and the reason it sucked was that uh Amsterdam is pretty
far north and so it's cold as shit in late November there. Right. So you can go in summer and it's
nice and it's beautiful and you're on a bicycle and you're cruising around all stoned or you can
go when it's sleeting and 29 degrees. And that's not as nice you know. And then all the best weed
would get saved for celebrities that were coming in. And a who's who. So there was worse weed to
get because it was all getting saved for you know Snoop Dogg or you know Sam Skunkman's friends or
you know whoever whoever the High Times crew or whatnot. And then on top of that you could buy
tickets to go to the cannabis cup out of High Times. Right. So you go to Europe on vacation
and the coffee shops are full with all these dudes from Jersey and New York.
Yeah. Screaming about wanting to get the best bud in the world. So it's like you fly 12 hours away
from your house and you're surrounded by a bunch of obnoxious east coasters. And there's not as
good weed and it's crowded and it's cold and it's raining or it's snowing and it's like I much
preferred going there in summer. You know just because it was nice and chill. You know but it
was like an event that was like the it was it was an event that you know. And you know really like
the story goes you know Neville didn't even want to release Jack Herrera that year. He didn't think
it he didn't think he didn't think it was done but they wanted something new and hot that they
could call Jack Herrera. And isn't the story of fucking Cindy 99 that it fucking dude bought
Jack Herrera in a coffee shop and found seeds in it. Yep. And then took him home and started his
whole cubing fucking princess whatever thing that he did. I don't think Rick did anything like that.
I'm just saying that's the story. Yeah. You know he found bag seed in buds that he bought at a
coffee shop. Yeah. Yep. Yep. Yep. You know. So is C-99 and Genius are both Jack Herrera at best
hybrids? Yeah. And really like and you know I think back then that was even earlier like we
weren't using the improper term back cross yet or you know BX. They were talking about fucking
wasn't it cubing? Yeah. Yeah. It was it was it was cubing. You were cubing it. You were like
fucking and they had all those like long winded posts on on fucking the forums about what
percentage and how much it was increasing with every one you did and laying it all out you know.
Yeah. There was some really bad breeder tech being shared that seemed cutting edge at the time.
You know. People still repeat that fucking shit like like a mantra. Oh you got to back
cross it four times and you get that's as good as an S1. That's a clone man. And I saw and I
saw somebody talking about I like the Super Silver Haze better than the Jack Herrera.
The whole reason Super Silver Haze exists is because Neville didn't feel like the Jack Herrera
project was ready for primetime. He just released it due to you know Alan and Ben
Drunkards from Sensei were businessmen. And so when he left he kept working on it.
And then a couple of years later I think in 97 or something he they released Mango and Neville
and Super Silver Haze because he felt like you know they'd actually gotten somewhere.
Right right right. But they still did a couple and I actually think that was the last big release
that Neville ever did. Right. But I mean I smoked that that Super Silver Haze cut because two I went
in 90. I was basically like every other year like I went 97 and 99 to the cups and those last two
cups that Super Silver Haze was all over the place because that was that was in that was like the
first and third year at one. It was like the hot shit over there. Right. It really was. It was the
hot shit. I mean it was super. There was a Fino of it that went like 14 weeks. Will the community
let Rez back into play. Rez is doing his own thing. You know what most people don't know about
Rez and are a couple of buddies remind reminded me of not that long ago was like before all the
bullshit with the with the law enforcement and all that. He was a dick online anyway.
Right. Big time. He was a big time troll jerk. Generally a pain in the ass to get along with.
Not a pleasant homie. Yeah. Despite despite any of the rest of the bull whatever you want to believe
about you know all the mess that happened legally or whatever. Yeah. He was a he was an early troll.
Mm hmm. He was a jackass. He had a huge ego. I mean he still does. He had a decent level of
intelligence which would have been I think much more appreciated if he hadn't had so much ego
with it. Yeah a little middle. You know I mean not you know a bunch of ego and a bunch of rudeness.
You know there was some root there was some rude people you could put up with a little bit better
but they were like borderline geniuses. Right. Right. Right. You know like Tom Hill could be
a real dick if you ask the dumb question. I wouldn't know anything about being rude.
That's you know I mean it's you know or Sam Skunk Man he could be a dick too because you know you
get tired of I've told the same story five billion times. Right. You're going to question me. You're
23. Shut the fuck up. You're a cocksucker. You know yeah. Eat my dick. You know basically
you know rude rude kind of rude you know. But it's hard it's hard to have patience.
You know and let's face it right. A lot of us are weirdos. A lot of us don't have the greatest
interpersonal skills to begin with. You know I mean yourself. It really is. I mean speaking for
me I probably have a little bit more than your average grower. Just a bit. Yeah. You know but
a lot but a lot of them it's like you know we're kind of harsh edges people that live in the hills
don't talk to people hang out with plants and they're really good with plants and they're not
so good with social interaction. Right. So you put those people on the forums and you put those
people like you know on IG or whatever and it's like it's not the easiest thing. I did have an
adjustment period that I will admit I had an adjustment period of where I may have been a
little meaner in responses and talking to people. A little snappy maybe a little bit of ego.
You know it happens. But some of us grow into beautiful smiling faces like this.
Well that's also still banned from Breed Bay for picking on sub cool. It's also it's also the way
I look at it is like you know I mean everybody has the natural inclination sometimes but it's
like are you trying to get your point across you trying to fucking argue on it. Right. Here's this
dude who says his dad created dog but I remember that guy is trying to dox me I think I'm a
balkan. OK. There you go. I mean the thing the thing about the one thing we'll say about dog
bud and then we'll move on is that Joe Brand and Pee Bud were buying and selling weed on
dead tour all the time for cash to go see dead shows. Right. Then this one weekend they sold
some weed and then they mailed Greg some more weed and then 15 years went by before they even
heard anything cool came out of it. Right. They literally they never saw chem 91 or anything like
that until 06 until the reunion when the forums got people back together. They had no idea.
They were on dead tour. Right. They met. You know you know these guys. Greg was in it was a teenager
from the East Coast and they sold him some weed in Indiana. Right. Which was just one stop on
summer tour and you're buying pounds and you're selling eighths and quarters and halves and ounces
and it ran out and you buy some other pounds and you just keep doing that and you did that for a
while and one of these sales turned into something. And now you want to hey 15 years ago do you remember
it was summer on dead tour. Do you remember this one couple pounds you had that you were hustling
for like a weekend. Do you have any clear memory of that because it's kind of important. Well I think
I think you might have remembered just because he hit Joe Brand up you know G hit Joe Brand up again
and had him mail him some more weed. I think two right. Two ounces and we don't even know if the
seeds came from the Deer Creek show or the seeds came from the weed that Joe sent him later.
It's from based on the stories I've kind of deciphered I think it it came from the ones
that was sent. That one had no seeds but then again we know G's stories are a little up and down.
I mean you know not to I like two of my favorite cuts of all time come out of G's little rooms but
I will say that all of us on this thing have tried to have tried to interpret what he meant
by rejuvenating the 91 after it got tired in 94. Yeah I always rejuvenate them. Rejuvenate yeah
the rejuvenation he had to let it go and rejuvenate it. That's how you fix it. From seed and that
shit never got explained you know and so I don't you know there's when it when anytime you have a
situation where you know we can even go back and take you know like ancient you know ancient
Virginia skunk bud grown for SSSC or Mr. Soul you know working for SSSC. You know you you create
these ancient legends and it's like how do you disprove them? Yeah in a lot of cases you can't
prove or disprove because they're so old. Well let's get back to the forums I got a question.
Yeah yeah. What was the first place do you remember where the first like seed bank the
first seed bank that carried your shit when people could actually buy it which one was it?
Well we don't talk about that. Okay so is it an unmentionable?
I ain't friends with that guy anymore.
Oh shit.
My fault that dude a little loco. Yeah oh okay gotcha. You got to remember I didn't even
start my seed company until 2014. Yeah yeah I remember. Yeah I I mean I could say one thing
is that my buddy that I never mentioned his name but Staten Island when we were doing all the super
dog work and we were doing all those hybrids that made it into the Cannabible he had big dreams of
realizing that you could probably make more money like off of an eight lighter of seed than you
could off an eight lighter of flour and he saw what was coming. I honestly didn't believe him.
You know I didn't think I didn't think that we you would ever be able in America to like
package up and sell enormous amounts of seed or anything like that because at the time
we were making all this stuff and we were literally giving it away to good friends and
stuff because we had more than we knew what to do with and there wasn't an outlet for it.
You know the era that that Caleb talks about getting involved is one of the earlier eras
is one of the earlier eras where you could really actually start to sell it. It wasn't simple in the
beginning even even if you were an active breeder finding out how to get it to the community wasn't
very simple. No at all. You had to trust I mean like even even with me I started the
selling seeds directly really early for for a U.S. person but when I first started you still had to
really put your trust in someone in Europe for the most part if you wanted any kind of traction
for your seeds if you wanted any I mean you had to work with seed banks for people they
eventually know who you are. If the seed bank didn't care you you probably weren't fucking
important and that's the way everybody looked at it. We were about to go into CSI after dark.
Yeah but yeah I mean you know a good bit of that was in the 90s you know when DJ Short wanted to
get his blueberry seed out there he had to give it away to two different groups in Europe. Yeah
first he had to give it to Tony at Sag Martha and then he had to give it to Dutch Passion.
I don't know if he intentionally gave it away but I think that's how it ended up working out.
Didn't he purposely give them to him and make deals? He purposely did. I think he thought
that he would still retain all control and this and that that's where he was probably mistaken
but in order for him to even like get money for his seeds he had to send them to an established
seed bank. Yeah. In a different continent. That's how hard it was to move seed banks
but you know when he I think Sag Martha they had his seeds in what like you know the mid 90s or
something like that right around there. The internet didn't even exist then really. Right
right. It did but not like it does now. Not on any level that you were going to be able to use it
for that. Yeah yeah. I think Overgrow started in either 98 or 99 and then it just kind of
I think Overgrow started in either 98 or 99.
Or yeah. Maybe. Yeah. Now you're right about that.
So like the first forums, the first being able to exchange stuff like how would DJ have even set up
an internet was going to set up a GeoCities like fucking you know web page and sell illegal beans
you know. I mean up until up until they passed the the 215 in in late 96 I think it was.
It was it was illegal in all 50 states. There wasn't any there wasn't even a legitimate reason
you could possess any of it. Yeah. And I think he feels burnt he felt burned but you know what
were you going to do when you gave it away to the Dutch. Right. If he didn't know that those those
Dutch guys were going to do whatever the fuck they wanted with it then he was just he had just
done his groundwork. Yeah. Well yeah that that's a blueberry is almost a a full day's topic just by
itself. It is but I just meant in the sense that like just to use it on the example of how hard
it was to sell seeds if you were a small American breeder. Yeah. He had to work with the Dutch
just to get it out there. There wasn't an avenue. What were you going to do? I mean you know you
know even like early even early American you know seed sellers or whatever used to try to fake
that their stuff was based out of Europe. Right. Right. Right. You know I mean one of the things
that IG did and and the middle and and the sort of the middle era of two middle late 215 was things
opened up enough that people felt free to be able to like you know you could have a Swamp Boys.
You could have a CSI Humble. You could have a you could have just these people that were like I'm
going to make my own packaging. I'm going to make my own beans. I'm going to go to these like gray
area cannabis cup swap meets and hustle seeds. I'm going to start to mail. I can say back in 0203 0405
I mean my buddy from Staten Island would tell me about this stuff that he wanted to do and I would
laugh at him. I was like oh you want us to all go to jail. That's what that's what it seems like
you're talking about to me. You know yeah. When I started I was one of the people I think I was
one of the few people that pretended that my website was in Amsterdam just to like try to
hide under the shadows you know just because no one was doing it. It's it fucking was a big
red flag. So yeah I mean waiting for that hit. Even having the infrastructure set up to be
successful. Yeah and that's kind of why there was so few breeders back then. Because it was
generally done out of love and you were trading amongst other people and there wasn't something
like there is now where somebody can be like oh I'm going to drop my Mac one drop and I'm going
to make 200 grand and you know I'm going to I'm going to I'm going to hype it. Yeah you really
couldn't hype it. There wasn't marketing. There wasn't an ability to reach a big audience.
Right right. I don't think you know. It took a while. Well in in in the era you know 06 you know
through 08 even 2010 I mean most of the marketing most most of the availability was all based on
internet forums right. Yeah you know that was. Yeah and people should also remember that when
overgrown cannabis world got shut down they got shut down because a very big you know
seed vendor got raided. Heaven's Stairway. That was and that scared a bunch of people.
And there's still repercussions and ripples hitting from that fucking bust.
You know and you know and then you know and and you know and people even in Canada and stuff like
that you know Mark Emery you know I mean he he went to fucking he went to jail.
It was it wasn't any. Did you have any dealings with Mark Emery Caleb
at all? Oh no no. Interactions? No no interactions at all but you know I was getting
cannabis culture or cannabis Canada from pretty much like the first issue you know. I've always
been a historian so I mean I have hundreds and hundreds of cannabis books and I was you know for
years I was getting every single magazine that was put out on on everything so I've always been way
more of a reader than a talker. Yeah you know it helps put details together sometimes. Yeah it does
yeah. But no no no direct you know dealings. I mean the stuff I liked from from those magazines
though and him were like the ABC stuff from back in the late 90s and then the Purple Indica, Purple
Kush stuff that was in those early issues as well. But uh and then of course. You think Emery was
working with the same Purple Indica that's around now or at least a relative? It wasn't Emery.
There was an article based out of Snohomish County in Washington and it basically dated that
stuff back into the you know at the very least you know early mid 90s. That's cool.
So there was a question we were talking about the other night and I was like oh I need to ask
Notso that and I can't remember what it was. It had something to do with uh how did Kim do you
make it to California Notso? Oh yeah how did it make it here? Yeah who brought it? Oh that's that's
pretty simple story. So it ties into the forums. So people in 06 people started getting excited
about uh Chemdog and the Chemdog story because it started getting posted uh like um uh Caleb was
saying Shabba got uh got um Skunk VA to start posting about his you know recollections and
different stuff like that and and then you know that's kind of actually what started to reunite
um uh people like Pbud and Joe Brand and uh Chemdog all they all started chatting. I believe
they even called like the the seeds that ended up being the one through four the reunion seeds.
Or yeah the number four they uh named the reunion fino specifically. Reunion fino that's what it was
because it was like they'd all they'd all kind of met up as this you know like different people
were like hey dude they're talking about your story on the internet right and so Chemdog hadn't
actually had the Chem 91 in quite a long time. Um he had gotten in trouble and lost it and he had
been working with some of the uh Chemdog super skunk hybrids that he had and bag seed and different
things and when it got famous again he wanted it back uh but nobody had it so he got um he got
skunk he got skunk VA to go back east with it and he was like if you bring it back to bring it back
to me and I've got this different one that you guys don't have out there and um I'll give it to
you. So he went back east and and saw a dude and gave him the and gave him the dog and then uh
Greg gave him the D and he came back and mommed it up and that's how uh me and uh IC collective
both got it. So it was skunk VA that did it right? 100 percent. Oh cool. And that was it.
Oh is it on you skunk VA? It was him it was it was all it's he's the reason it's he to me
he's the reason it's on the west coast. Very cool. He put forth the effort he went back east to see
chem dog uh he gave he gave the dog to chem dog he got the D. That was I think if I remember too
um uh I believe that um chem dog tried to give him back the MSS. Yeah he just said that. But it was
the shorter one that was in the high times and it wasn't what uh homie remembered at all. That makes
a lot of sense too. Yeah so then yeah so then he came back and he grew it up into a mom and or
whatever and then uh IC collective and myself got it not that long after that and but to me it's like
the reason it's on the west coast is is skunk VA. Well on Greg uh on G's tour um he uh he he dropped
it off uh in the you know LA area with Swerve the chem D in 06 but this is off of 06. He um and
Swerve traded him a bunch of fake cuts for it you know no big deal and then he stopped at uh
he stopped at um you know obsolete's in central cal um on his tour and then he stopped at Joe
Brands and then he headed up into Oregon and stopped at some other folks place and I think
he might have given them the chem D too but he he stopped at a good handful of places giving cuts
out selling weed at dispensaries all that kind of stuff on his you know reunion tour of sorts
and this was like first week of August 06. So it sounds like uh skunk VA went over there you know
earlier in the year and and and got the same or similar cut I don't know seems like there was a
few cuts that got passed out that year. Yeah yeah I mean it so but that's that's kind of that's how
that's how the and that led to a bunch of stuff that led to the the one two three four getting
popped and starting to get traded around right um that led to the D that led to the one through
the four and the D and all that starting to get added to the mix um I don't know that the weird
thing about the the chem stuff is that my buddy disliked the cis quite a bit he thought it was
ugly and he didn't like how it got him high so he never brought it west and so it never really
percolated around our crew um you know we way later we saw some of the s1s um but not the actual
first one you know yeah so but yeah I mean that's and I you know I'm pretty sure uh you know he I
never lost I never lost it after skunk gave it to me um yeah I mean that and that's that's the
kind of thing like you know uh CSI and I talk about it all the time it's like are there strains
where like the chain of custody wasn't broken? Right right. Because once you lose the chain of
custody um you know it's hard. It gets hard you know like um because who knows you know you try to
you you lost the sour diesel you try to get it back it's not the same thing you remember you
lost this you try to get it back it's not the same you remember um you know so on and so forth so
you know kind of like when a 707 uh got his his bubba back from me um I I don't think I did it on
purpose it was an accident it got mixed up in a flat what because I was bringing a ton of people
a bunch of stuff at a party and uh then like a year later he's like yeah inspect his bubba and
I was like what's this inspect his bubba and he had bomb threat and not oh shit not
but I was like my bad my bad I ain't trying to give you you know the fake that's one well not
fake but you know yeah but yeah that happens all the time I think I'd take a bomb threat over
over original maybe you can always get a new bomb threat if you have that that's true that's true
it's a good point you know here's a question for you since uh we've kind of meandered away
from the forum stuff but do you CSI do you do any work with G's are you planning any work with it
maybe if I could find a mass super skunk yeah yeah that was for you too really
yeah I was telling him last night that I think he should because I think it's a it's a rad clone but
it is it is very finicky and it does make it a lot harder to to pull off reversals on unhappy
finicky shit right it would it would be really cool kind of uh attempt to remake like a sour type
from yeah you know building blocks I mean yeah you know we all have the the 91 but you know what
building blocks you know it might not have to be the exact thing but what could you get close enough
to to make a sour diesel out of you know the original building blocks yeah you know I don't
I think G's leans closer to a sour type than it does a chem type personally
definitely yeah I think so it's a cool one yeah yeah all right so people want to hear something
about Irene I don't know what they want to hear about Irene I think we've already told the story
of Irene but do you have any good Irene tales oh I don't know I mean she's cool I think
I had Irene for a little bit and didn't realize she was she was you know as as nice as she was
until I think I grew her outdoors in maybe 2008 I'm thinking yeah I don't want to fudge the fudge
the dates though but yeah she came out so nice back then you know good old-fashioned Atlanta
good old-fashioned Atlanta Atlanta's finest yeah it is a special one yeah I mean it doesn't have a
whole whole lot of a story you know yeah just another another bag seat really that's what it
all boils down to is just another fucking bad seat I mean that is one of the most humbling
things about breeding is that a lot of the most famous strains are total accidents
mm-hmm right and then you put a bunch of time and work and effort into stuff and then you know
your air conditioner goes out and some shit herms and the seat off of that is better than anything
you tried to do and I think a lot of times when it comes to like these stories the the accidental
weed is so good it's what makes people want to try to like shoehorn in that they had some
intentional part of making it not so much that I was just there or we got late they don't want to
say well I just got lucky in my room mm-hmm they want to be like oh well I did this and I did this
and I did this and then that happened and yeah now it's all the weed that you all love well
everybody's got to work their stud isn't that how it's done you know but but really it was more like
you know I was I had my room I ended up partying for a few days I fucked off I walked in there
there was some bananas I found some seeds trimming that's like 99% of bag seed stories
yeah that that's kind of why I believe uh uh Matt Matt Berger and Josh D story because it's not
impressive it's not a it it's a herm you know in a little closet under the stairs story and it's just
like who makes that stuff up that's not right it's just oops yeah I mean you know I it it that's
very humbling but I also do think that a lot of that 90s weed it just goes to show that when
you're crossing things that like aren't when you're crossing real fire you know right um it's a lot
easier to get you know like was was Neville an amazing breeder or did he just get to get the
best of the best from America and cross it together for the first time right right you know
what I'm saying there's an there's an there's arguments to both he was you know he was the
first person to cross NL and skunk right you know huh not so rude no uh no uh I was thinking you
should get uh Tom on and try to get uh uh figure out a little more details about pine tar and
all that kind of stuff because love to you know I don't think he even knows who I am to get him on
or he's not likely I I think he's banned off of IC Mag so uh yeah I mean let me ask you like a
real question do you think that he would be better for a live or do you think he would be better for
a a lightly edited uh podcast or something oh probably a a heavily edited podcast you're right
because I mean we definitely Matt and I have definitely interviewed some like knowledgeable
old timers right and like yeah no Tom's a character I like him but man he'll yeah
he's right off topic yeah you know yeah so there's there is a question everybody is asking and it's
up to you if you want to talk about I don't even know if you want to deal with this one right now
or save it for a full episode Caleb backstory on Z what do you think oh man um I don't want to like
say say yet because yeah let's say you want to save it for a full show of some sort later well
I still have some groans to do on that whole thing but yeah man I I wouldn't be surprised
if it's not just an s1 of of that green sherbert cut yeah um there's there's just
two too many similarities and the whole you know uh heterozygous homozygous thing between the two
of them really kind of leans towards it just being a s1 of that yeah but I don't know um
yeah I could go on and on on some comparisons on you know how some of that stuff could uh
could potentially make sense um yeah but I don't know I don't know yeah we'll save it for another
time but yeah no that's a that's a good answer one thing one thing that is cool about that is that
about that is that um uh csi and I and Matt we all talk all the time about how when you compare
stories to what the plants tell you how they breed what their s1s look like um what what they
look like when they get crossed to different things and how what your eyes tell you lines up
with what the story is right right right you know and sometimes it it sometimes it adds a lot
in terms of what you see um you know like about I have a I have a really hard time believing
that the the the cis the 91 the chem d and the one through four all came out of the same bud
yeah yeah you know um they're just too vastly different to me um you know but that's I wasn't
there either you know and a lot of this stuff is like the most famous stories they all almost
because almost all of them come from accidents and because a lot of them come from other people
it's like the people that marketed stuff or marketed skittles or marketed cookie or whatever
like they probably you know different people get it maybe it doesn't get quite as famous
you know um you know and they should get great credit for marketing it to the point that they did
yeah right oh yeah 100% that I've never disputed that um you know I I give lots of people accolades
for mark successfully marketing and you know building you know clones that would never have
been anything up you know to what they are uh what I've always you know frown on of course is
you know people being dishonest doing it I think you can do it honestly and still be successful
sure you know having to just make up big old big old you know fictitious backstories or act like
you're the one responsible for it that's why instead of you know I mean there's cats like
you know Josh and Matt who are like oh yeah it was a harm accident under the stairs and then
there's other cats you know who are like yes we created that from our multi-thousand plant grows
aren't we awesome yes yes we popped we popped 15 seeds and the 20th was the best
yeah so you know um you know I I think the the truth is is the the biggest factor for me
yeah yeah there's an aspect where and you know we should say this too is that truth is a most people
everyone likes to say they want the truth but like people that really care about it it's like a really
small percentage yeah oh most people like truth if it helps them burnish their money or their
reputation or whatever else sure and the truth is usually boring you know people who are looking for
excitement from the truth they're gonna be like oh well that was lame yeah something up I don't care
especially when the answer is 99% of the time oh it's a bad seed yeah or yeah or you know or it
happened in an accident at my buddy's house or I was this or I was you know like you know you were
early involved and you know the story even just knowing the story is cool right but then people
want to be part like they want to be this active component that was critical to the story you know
right and I did forget someone earlier that was really important when I was was you know coming
in and that was that was doing reversals before I was and that was Rascal I think I think I would be
remiss not to mention him because he was doing good things and had legitimate cuts you know for
the most part as far as I know like he was doing good fucking work and he was doing it at a time
when it wasn't popular when people were pushing back against feminized seed so I give that guy
props to all the stuff that that guy made between whatever it was oh nine and twelve or whatever
yeah all those hybrids are fire yeah there was some good shit in there I mean he really I'm not
maybe not all but like the vast majority of the stuff he had some really nice cuts and he was
crossing them together and they led to some really nice things yeah I mean white fire you know a lot
of people don't even know like about the white anymore like not a lot of people talk about it
but that was the essence behind the white fire that was fucking cool right right yeah that uh
that's one I'd like to touch on too in the future um oh yeah they they uh you know the
swamp boys uh big ricky in particular he uh he's alluded a lot to knowing exactly what the hybrid of
the white is because it's supposedly a tk hybrid um but you know he he likes riddles and secrets so
speaks in riddles and lyrics I call it a haiku hillbilly haiku he likes sometimes I wonder how
long he takes to craft uh some of his instagram posts and how to make it like you know he because
he's got his own language when it comes to that you know have you seen have you seen stuff like
the white inside the tks ones yeah yeah yeah there there was a there was one plant in our
first run of them where um actually there was there was there was four plants that uh we pulled out of
the first run um and uh one was a green girl scout cookie like a green form cut um other was
a plant that looked just like the white you know not oh but so similar yeah it was obvious and then
there was the number 50 and the 51 were which were my two actual favorites of the whole bunch
and then you know I smoked both those heavily and the 50 turned out to be my absolute favorite of
the whole bunch and so that's the one I kept and still play with from the first and then I did
another hundred plus you know tks one pop and you know got other selections from there yeah
so Caleb what do you think about cookies uh great question for when asked what do you think
I think that goes into the category of 2000 uh what 2010 and on for 2010 2011 yeah
people people ask a bunch of that and I think I mean it's a story you know and it's a story that
like there's a lot of pieces that aren't known that well um but it's a definitely one that's
going to create a it's you know it's a super popular brand there's a lot of money involved
there's a lot of rep involved and it's one of those things if you don't get it exactly right
there it's going to be gunning for you here's a relevant one here's a relevant one for you
Caleb are you gonna s1 any of the nl selections I was gonna leave that up to you buddy yeah I
think we might I think we might I'm gonna see how it goes uh yeah no I think they'd be worth it
I think they'd do that you know I like my feminized so I'll grow some of Matt's uh
s1 nls hell yeah there we go well we've kept him here for god damn a long time so I know he's got
a busy night I gotta get back to packing um anything else anybody wants to talk about
awesome so what are you so what's what's the next drop Caleb and where where can we find it
oh I don't know if I'm dropping dead maybe yeah the next drop is dead
I'm I'm good for now yeah okay well go check out humboldtcsi.com correct
okay well go check out humboldtcsi.com correct yeah yeah humboldtcsi.com keep your eyes peeled
he's always putting stuff up on there on and off he doesn't often announce it so just keep
checking back um I'm still waiting on those next drop what's that I'm still waiting on not so next
drop yeah where the fuck's that at not so it's slowly developing okay good it's slowly developing
you know I'm not that I'm not that public of a guy uh it's changing though you know
thanks both of you uh basically like if if the two most important people for you guys seeing my
face on a weekly basis is the two people on this uh talk tonight guaranteed without them I would
not be showing my face or chatting about stuff they both pushed for quite a long time to get me
to tell stories and talk shit um so really it it really is they gave me the confidence to say
you people would want to hear it let's chat let's talk history and you know and there's an aspect to
it too where it's like a lot of this stuff we're talking about with you guys this is what we have
all been doing amongst each other privately for fucking ever yeah so we've all heard each other
stupid fucking stories a hundred times you know and and all that and so this is this is really how
information gets information and cuts get saved and and shared and you know history survives and
generally the point of all this is to get you know versions of history out there and gets passed along
right yep so other newer people can hear it so it's it's just not a wash and bullshit
and everyone keep your eyes peeled for a sterling uh what is it sterling green drop
eventually yeah eventually eventually eventually when it when it comes around
everybody's asking about it so i figured i'd plug it and there's a bunch of good questions today we
didn't get to uh as always if just because just because you asked and we didn't chat
um you know doesn't mean it's not it's not worthwhile you can always message us about them
uh we're always looking for different things to chat about what people have interest in you know
so uh keep all that stuff coming we always appreciate your guys's friday night 100 so
and go go check out the breeder syndicate patreon you got to go to google type in
breeder syndicate patreon go check it out go show some love to speak easy seedbank.com
they're who edits and gets these things up for the podcast version so show them some love and
check out right seedco.com and humbledcsi.com and we will see you next week probably at the
same time exactly peace good thanks good one night everyone
