Welcome to Breeder Syndicate.
What's up everyone?
I'm just jumping.
So tonight we're going to do a little Chem 101.
I use that term because that was the original thread on IC Mag that covered Chem Dog started by our buddy, High and Lonesome.
So this will be the Chem 101 video. I wish High and Lonesome would be here too on camera with us.
But yeah, no, this isn't a custom. This is actually what's called an Epiphone.
It's an Epiphone, not a Gibson. It's a Prism Plus.
So it's all Epiphone parts or I'm sorry, all Gibson parts, pickups, everything in it, coil splitting, but a really thin, thin, thin neck, which I love.
So yeah, so yeah, I'm going to bring Notso in and it looks like there's already 90 people in here.
So let's get this shit jumping. What's up, Keith?
Props to Keith, too, because he's the one who really kind of put this in my brain today to get this going.
What's up, dude? Wasabi. How are you doing? I'm good.
You ready to drop the verbal pipe bomb? I mean, you know, hopefully it'll be educational.
Yeah, I mean, we'll try to keep, try to keep, you know, facts from educated guesses separate, perhaps.
Yeah, yeah. I think a lot of times, a lot of times those two things get conflated.
Yeah. You know what people know versus what people think, you know?
Yeah. So I think that's a good idea. Let's see.
First, of course, like you just said, we'll start with the disclaimer.
A lot of this is going to be theory and conjecture based on educated guesses, based on breeding,
based on talking to pretty much everyone involved in the Chem lineage and Sauer lineage from back in the day till now.
A lot of it was put together by CSI Humboldt.
You know, a lot of what I've discovered and he's discovered and Notso's discovered,
all combined into one grand ultimate theory.
However, I don't want to speak for him. He can always speak on his own.
I offered him to come on here, but he's always too busy. So it's just going to be me and Notso.
And we're going to try to cover it as best we can, as accurate as we can and with the best intentions.
Because earlier someone wrote me and it was this, it was around, it was this morning.
And he was just asking, you know, like, what is, you know, Chem D? What is, what is Chem A?
What's all this stuff? And I thought about it. I was like, there really is no one place people can go as a resource
to really get a good idea for what these lines are, what's behind them and the history.
It's a lot of piecing together from different forms stuff.
And even then there's a lot of stuff that's just not out there because people are scared to step on toes.
And I think it's been long enough that no toes should be stepped on.
Yeah. I mean, it's also true in a lot of ways where, you know, the truth,
the truth survives a lot better when there's, when there's little fame or rep or money involved.
Yeah.
Because there's no reason to alter it. And, you know, as soon as anything becomes, you know, famous or, you know,
there's money involved or whatever else, then all of a sudden, you know,
sometimes there's battling amongst people as far as like who did what and when and how and da da da da da and everything like that.
So, yeah.
Yeah. And Kem is, you know, Kem's this topic has been debated now for, when did the forum talk start, Matt? Like 06?
Yeah. Somewhere around then is when people started really jumping on it. Yeah.
So probably like it's been publicly debated now in various ways and various, you know,
forms for 16 years or something like that.
Yeah.
Which is pretty incredible when it comes to like a bunch, you know,
a small group of like hippie kids just partying and then all of a sudden fame happens.
Yeah. Exactly, dude. So let's start with the start with the beginning.
The Kem 91, the dog bud, bag seed as it were.
All right. So maybe, maybe I'll start at not the beginning, but a beginning. Right.
And then we'll go back to the beginning.
So my my start in the cannabis story, as far as Kem Dog goes, comes in the late 90s.
I had I just I recently found the Mendo perps and I'd grown a couple of crops of it.
And I had I had a friend who will remain nameless simply because he doesn't really like fame.
But I previously referred to him as Staten Island.
And, you know, as we became friends, he gave me the camp, what later was called the dog at the time,
the dog and the super skunk. Right. Yeah.
And we became like really, really good friends for a long time.
And so he used to tell me a bunch of the stories about the Kem and how all that came to be.
And this is, you know, this is late 90s, early 2000s as all these stories are getting told.
So that's kind of my aspect into the camp. Yeah.
At the time, other than him and myself, he had given it a couple of years previous to giving it to me.
He had given it to the guy who's known on here is Skunk V.A.
You'll forgive me if I if I pause for a second, because I'm trying to like,
instead of just saying all these people's names, I'm trying to use their Internet handle, you know,
which is a little different because, you know, you don't ever call them by these things in person.
Right. But, you know, there was a few people.
There was a couple literally probably like four or five people in the state of California that had it.
Yeah. Right. And then, you know, you can fast forward to the forums where Skunk V.A. came out
and sort of the Chemdog 101, which Matt referenced, began to come out and all kinds of people started debating various aspects.
And but for a while, say, from the time that it was created until its fame, as it were, you know,
it was really only a small group of people that kind of had it.
So probably the easiest way to say it is in the summer of 1991, Chemdog was seeing some Grateful Dead shows.
And at Grateful Dead shows, I've said previously, it was a really great place to buy kind bud, especially in the early 90s.
It might have been one of the only consistent places to buy kind bud at the time. Right.
And so he was I think he was 17 years old at the time and he bought some kind bud from a guy named Joe Brand and his and his kind of his sidekick, Pee Bud.
Right. The story diverges right after that because he either found supposedly 13 seeds in that kind bud
or he or he got Pee Bud and Joe to send him one more batch of something.
Of something. Yeah. And he found the seeds in that bud.
But needless to say, the reason why people call it Deer Creek for younger people is Deer Creek is one of the venues in the.
I'm getting confused by questions. The Chem that Jason King wrote about was my Chem. That was my weed. I grew it.
And I gave him I even wrote him out a list of what to say. And it did not make an accurate transcription into the book.
Sadly, he took some artistic license. But anyway, you know, so.
Chem Dog takes it home. Right. And he has the seeds and he sprouts four or five of them. Or one.
No, he sprouts a few because out of that comes the Chem Cis and the Chem 91.
OK. And I will say about the Chem Cis that my buddy from Staten Island remembers it.
But the problem is Chem Cis is Chem A. Chem A through D.
Yeah. So, you know, two of them survived. Yes. Of the let's put it that way. Of the first of the first batch of seeds popped.
Two became named. OK. And the other ones probably ended up getting lost.
Everyone that I first met, everyone called it the dog. Most of the growers that had it.
My buddy from Staten Island, Skunk VA, etc. They were all organic growers.
So they weren't super hyped back then on calling anything they grew Chem.
Yeah, of course. And, you know, Americans, we like to shorten shit or whatever.
So most of us just called it the dog. Yeah, it was the dog. Right.
And so, you know, it so Chem Dog had the dog and he was growing the dog for a number of years.
And it became kind of popular in the East Coast in certain circles.
And he was really militant about not giving it out. Right. Because he didn't want to get cut off. Right.
He had sort of a trap market. This and that.
Now, granted, you know, as the case may be, you have to realize that, like, at this particular time, he's, you know, 17, 18, 19 years old at best.
Yeah. Right. These are Grateful Dead kids. Right.
So my buddy from Staten Island has been trying to get it from him and Chem Dog wouldn't give it to anybody on the East Coast.
OK. And my buddy moved out to Sonoma County in northern California, just north of San Francisco.
And he wanted to be closer to the Grateful Dead, Jerry Garcia, Jerry Band, the Bay Area hippies. Right.
So he left New York and Chem Dog, because dude was on the West Coast and 3000 miles away, agreed to give it to him.
If as long as he promised to never, ever give it to anyone back on the East Coast. Yeah.
He didn't want it to spread anywhere in New York or Massachusetts or anything like that.
Yeah. At the same time, he had this he had this weed that he smoked with these other hippies at some Jerry Garcia shows.
And these guys flipped out over it. They adored it. They wanted it really bad.
And so they said, if you come to Virginia. Right. We will give you this skunk cut that we have.
And, you know, in exchange for this, this cut that you have. So dude arranged it to go to Virginia and trade this cut for the super skunk.
And then he drove to Massachusetts and met Chem Dog and Chem Dog gave him the dog.
And because dude had a couple extra cuts of this skunk, he gave one to Chem Dog and then he took the super skunk and the dog and drove west.
Yeah. Right. That was about 1993. Yes. Or so.
Yes. So that's that's kind of that's kind of where like the the West Coast kind of comes into it is he brought it out to the West Coast.
And then that was 1993. And he was pretty much the only one growing it for a few years.
Yeah. Either one of them on the West Coast, actually. Nobody else had it.
So it was basically like one small garage and you could get either one of those strains.
If you happen to go to like a Jerry Garcia show at the Warfield or anywhere in the Bay or anywhere in California, he would likely be there with ounces.
Yeah. Slinging ounces for 400 bucks an ounce. Right. So you fast forward a couple of years and it's 1995 and Jerry has a heart attack and dies.
And Skunk VA decides to come off dead tour and wants to grow some wheat.
And so initially my buddy gives him the super skunk. Yeah. Which is dudes taking some Polaroids and he's posted them up on his I.G.
So there's some I think some 95 96 Polaroids.
And let's let's let's go ahead and delineate here that between start start pulling it.
The VA super skunk the one just try to refer to it as that because there might be other super skunk.
Yeah sure. So that's the other part of this one.
Yeah. That's the other hard part too is that all these other terms besides dog and super skunk came about on the Internet when people were trying to figure out what the hell we had.
So VA skunk Massachusetts super skunk chem 91 skunk the a cut.
I don't think any of those things really even existed until the mid 2000s.
Yeah. In terms of in terms of nomenclature in terms of names. Yeah. Yeah. Right.
To us it was like the SS and the dog. Yeah. Yeah.
And the only reason why I'm really telling the super skunk thing for a minute is just because it ties into how home he got it and brought it west.
Yeah. OK. So what something when someone should know is that and he wasn't part of the skunk VA wasn't part of the dead.
No. There was a bunch of us a few hundred thousand people that either went you know that traveled around with the dead while there was dead shows up until 1995.
And he was one of those people. Yeah. He was one of those people. Pee Bud was another one of those people. So was Joe Brand.
There was a lot of people that went to shows and hustled various things to to make it to the next show.
Yeah. You know. And so you know and don't get questions. Don't get caught up in questions. Don't get caught up in questions.
Yeah. Don't worry about. Yeah. So we'll cover him. So he so he got you know so basically what it boiled down to is that there was one guy from 1993 on that had it on the West Coast.
Yes. Right. And he promised he was he's always been kind of stingy about cuts. You know he kind of saw what was coming. You know it might have been a lot of years off at that point.
But he saw that there was a bunch of shenanigans that was going to happen. And so he was always pretty militant about getting trading cuts and stuff like that.
I didn't really trade cuts with him. I just kind of by sheer accident became like a super close friend of his. Yeah. And that's pretty much why I got them. Yeah. You know we just traded everything back and forth because we were so close. Right.
And so that's kind of the start. Now here's an interesting thing. My buddy from Staten Island smoked both the dog and the chem cysts back then. But he didn't bring the chem cysts West because he thought it was far inferior. Okay. He didn't want it.
So we know for sure that the chem cysts was one of the earliest cuts. Oh he. Yes. He. To my knowledge the chem cysts and the chem dog or the dog are the two cuts that came out of the first popping of seeds. Okay. And they existed. And he remembers smoking them in you know before he moved West in 1991 92.
You know he you know so he I have you know independent confirmation. Yeah. Right. That those both those things existed. That's that's good to know. Even I had no clue if Ken because it's always been said that chem cysts was a part of the chem A through D pop. And that's where it gets confused.
No. He he actually he and he thought it was ugly and he didn't like the high. Makes sense. And so he didn't he didn't bring it West. He had the opportunity to bring it West. He didn't want it. Okay. Right. You know and so that doesn't mean it wasn't good or whatever it just that it was one dude's opinion you know. But it was ugly.
Yeah. You know and it wasn't as good. And so you know. So anyway. So you know the story of chem is that you know what became known as you know chem 91 insists came out of that first 91 seed pop. Yeah. Right. And you know it it goes off it goes off on tangents because it ties into sour and all these different things but we can keep it.
Yeah. You know I don't know we can keep it pretty close. I'm doing my best to not look at questions but I know it's just it's cracking me. It's fucking hard. So so anyway those those were the those were the first two cuts. I mostly have. I'll say this. I know a lot about what happened on the West Coast simply because I'm good friends with him and I'm good and I've known the other people that had it for forever now.
Yeah. And you know we also traded a ton of stories about things before the forums really existed. Yeah. And before it was ever talked about or before we had any idea that like anything of this shit was going to be anything important. Yeah. Either. Right. Because that's what happens with a lot of famous weed is that nobody has any idea what they're doing is going to be important or people are going to care.
Right. So it's not like everyone's taking meticulous notes in case they get famous later. Yeah. These are we are partying hippies. Yeah. And take smoking weed. We're taking LSD. We're trying to chase chicks. We're tripping around. We're doing our thing. Circle jerking. All of it. Yeah. That was more like I think your punk rock scene you know so to speak but to each their own.
Punk rock scene I don't know.
To each their own. So you know but yeah that's that's kind of what and you've got to remember too for Chemdog I mean Chemdog was literally 17 years old when he got these fucking seats. Yeah. I don't know if anyone I don't know how old everyone who's listening is but like when you're 17 18 19 you don't have very much together.
No. The fact that dude was able to throw together some lights especially in the early 90s when there was no forums there was no information there was two or three books you could buy. Yeah. And some friends you know I mean the tech was pretty basic. Yeah. It was not easy to get information back then it was not easy to learn. Most of the time you learned you did whatever someone who knew who was growing around you was doing if you knew anyone. Yeah.
I didn't know anyone so I literally started from books. So you know he yeah and it was totally illegal. There was no medical or anything like that obviously. But you know that's how it started. It started with with some teenagers and bag seed from a dead show.
So as a result of that you know what it is exactly will will kind of be an eternal mystery.
Yeah. Well I know. Yeah. You know and I mean at least at this point it's at least at this point that we're speaking about it's complete mystery on what it is. Yeah. And you know and I should also say to that they get Chemdog wasn't friends with Peebud or Joe Brand or anything like that.
Like he what they weren't in the circle or of crew. They were just like someone that they bought weed off of it a dead show. So here and there. Right. So those guys had those guys had no idea for years and years and years that anything came out of that weed sale. Yeah. Like at all. You know.
And so you know people are saying being a skelly hash plant dog but stop it. Stop it. There's all kinds of stuff. There's all kinds. There's all kinds of rumors that have come out after the fact. Right. Yeah. But the bottom line is that some older partiers who sold weed for a living.
OK. Who are constantly buying and selling different types of weed on dead tour sold the sack of weed one day and then 15 years later found out something came of it. Yeah. So there was no like calls back like hey that thing is really special. What like there wasn't any kind of information exchange like that going.
And to me this is where kind of like well I guess maybe let's take it year by year. So let's get into the the Kim A through D then. I mean or can be through D I guess if Kim sister because Kim sister is considered Kim if I remember correctly. Same thing.
I mean it you know. So I mean you can say there's there's rumors. I I was not you know I was not obviously on the East Coast and all this stuff happened. But I mean I you know I knew the various people involved and that's what I was told. Yeah. What we know for sure is that two keepers came out of the first batch of seeds.
Yeah. That's what we know for sure. And then let's get to. So we've gone on about the 91. We haven't really said about what we think it is or anything. We'll do that at the end. Let's do the D era.
OK. So fast forward nine years nine years nine years. Right. And maybe God I should. I mean we have I guess we'll just bounce around in time. Fast forward nine years. Yeah. And he's got some seeds and he decides to pop some more seeds.
OK. And he labels them whatever you know ABCDE. So on and so forth. Yeah. And it seems like the one true keeper that came out of that was the D. Yeah. OK. So. So there was the D. Right. And at this point the story has has been that he found males and that he didn't find males based on what post you refer to.
And this. Yeah. Like a lot of things I've said before. I mean there's there's issues with Chemdog in the sense that not all of the things he has written on the forums can all be true. Yeah. Yeah. You know I'm not saying he's a liar. No.
I'm just saying that like your recollection and this year versus how you write it in that year and all that type of stuff you know and what you were doing and if you remember right. Yeah. Because you know I mean Matt you know Matt we've we've we've chatted with some very old school cats and some of them have very poor memory on what they were up to. Yeah. That's for sure.
That seems to be consistent among most older heads. Yeah. None of them knew it was going to be famous or matter or need to remember. Yeah. Or need to remember. So basically at this point we should say that I'm not exactly sure when the sis died. Yeah. Let's just say that there was the dog aka Chem 91 and then there was the sis. Yes. And then there was the D. Yeah.
So by 2000 there was there was three cuts. OK. And you know fast forward five or six more years and skunk VA gets on the forums. Matt would probably remember was that I see mag. I don't remember which one he popped up on. I think he popped up on the forums talking shit about Chem and this and that and everything else.
And that's kind of where the skunk VA cut came from. Sure. The name because a lot of times back then you attributed a cut to the name of the poster who first talked about the cut. Correct. And it was super common. Right. Yeah. That was a very common nomenclature way of talking about things. Right. Yeah. So you know and then I mean you know there's a.
So anyway so it gets it starts to get famous. OK. And other people realize it gets famous. And you know obviously skunk VA kind of started the fame. Chem dog gets back involved. He realizes that there's a bunch of stuff going on about his stories. I believe he started posting some versions of his events right around then. And somehow Pee Bud and Joe Brand find out what's going on.
And recently just so everybody knows like they're talking about Joe Brand. I recently talked to Joe Brand and we're going to do an interview but we've been having trouble like linking up the times to do it. So this is being told with his input in it basically. So when we get to the one through four I'll start talking more about from his point of view how it went down as well.
So what I believe happened is you know they these people started talking back and forth. And this was the first indication to Pee Bud and Joe Brand that something had happened to some weed that they sold 15 16 years before. Yeah. Right. So.
And this year is 2006.
2006. Right. And so Joe and Chem Dog start chatting or DMing or whatever the hell. And Chem Dog decides to give them force give Joe Brand four seats. Yes. And they were even they even named them the reunion seats. That's correct. Yeah. Because it was the reunion because it was the first time these various characters had started chatting again. Correct.
After 15 16 years of not talking. Yeah. Right. And so it was supposed to be four seats from the original bad was how the story went. The story went there were four seats from the original band. So they got popped and they got creatively named one through four. Since it was already a 3D let's do one. Yeah. They were they were named one through four. Yeah.
So you know the forum era was a little bit different era in the sense that things were starting to get traded around a little bit more. Shown in different rows. Different grows and different things like that. And like I said my my buddy who brought the clones out here was real stingy about trading cuts and especially especially that.
And so Chem Dog had made him promise to not really give it out beyond the tight circle. And so he kind of held that. Yeah. Right. You know. So but then obviously there's a bunch of desire for it. Right. Yeah. And so I don't know where we want to go from here. But that's all I mean that's the rough story as it was told.
That's the rough story. So that was originally told. Now Chem Dog aka Dog aka 91. Yeah. Right. Chem Sis those are the 91 pop. Okay. Some things were popped in 2000. Of that the D survived and became known and famous. Yeah. And then some more things one through four were popped in 2006. Yes. And those also became named and those also those also started getting traded.
And this is where the story kind of where where we ended up with the story when all of us started kind of researching it pretty hard is is from taking that story that we were told that they were all from the same bag of seeds and then growing them. And over the years you know whether me you Caleb everyone started collecting these cuts and growing them out and seeing how that compared to the tail.
And that's where everything kind of starts getting figured out over the years from Joe Brand to what he had as the Chem one through four. What really was. I'll answer this question even though you're telling me to ignore it. The Joe Brand cut came because Joe Joe Brand was it was I don't know if he is was a hard partier. Right. Let's just let's just put it that way.
He liked to get high. He liked to party. He liked to party on a wide variety of stuff. And he traded people after he got a hold of the Chem 91. He traded from I see collective correct. No. Yes. Yes. No. No. No. No. So it gets it gets confusing. Okay. I'll I'll get one for Joe's point of view.
But I'll but I'll I'll go back to that. So what became known as the as the Joe Brand cut is Joe ended up the J.B. Chem. He started trading people. Okay. The Chem 91 for various cuts. And lo and behold it wasn't the Chem 91. So he sent people you know some people called the Joe B. Diesel. Some people called the Joe B. Chem.
It was obviously maybe a J.B. 91. That's what I'm referring to though. He got the cut that he was trading from I see collective. That's how he tells. Okay. So so here's what we'll go. So I also know I see collective. And he has a different version of events. Yeah. So let's tell both. So that's so why don't you why don't you tell Joe's version.
Okay. So Joe's version is that when he tried to get back the cuts he went to I see collective and I see collective sent him back a version of Chem 91 that he thought that he may or may not have known was the real one. And Joe Brand immediately started passing it out and trading it out.
So could be. His I see collective story is not that much different than that. Okay. So I see collective story is that he lived in Oakland at the time and he'd been in Tahoe and stuff too. But he he had Joe Brand and Pee Bud come out to his house. Okay. And that was the first time it was an O. It was it was a little bit after 06 I think.
Right around that era. But that was the first time that Pee Bud and Joe Brand smoked the Chem 91. Yeah. Was at his house that they had never seen it. They they they may they obviously had smoked or seen the dog bud or whatever the seeds came out of. But that was the first time they ever saw the famous cut. Yeah. Okay. And they had the one through four.
And they had the one through four and they wanted to trade him the D and the 91 for the one through four. Yeah. And he said no. And he gave them the D but he would not give them the 91. Okay. Now this actually I actually kind of believe his version of events. Maybe I'll maybe I'll rewind a little bit. So because someone just asked where did I see collective get it.
We all got it. Huh. You already said that. I mean we attention. We all got we all got it from the same. We all got it from Staten Island. Yeah. He's the one that brought it west. Skunk VA got it. I would say 96 or something like that. I see got it in 97 ish when he graduated from high school. I got it in 98 ish. So you know and that was kind of where it stopped.
So Joe Brand had to get the cam 91 somewhere.
So that so I so I know where he got it. Okay. So Piva and Joe Brand were pissed that I see would not give it to him. Okay. Okay. So they go to our homie CSI and that's they gave him the one through four.
Then they would have had the original 91. They did have the original 91. They got it from Caleb 100 percent. And Caleb was like, I'm not going to give it to him. I'm not going to give it to him. I'm not going to give it to him.
They did have the original 91. They got it from Caleb 100 percent. And Caleb and Caleb. He's told me that himself.
But you have to realize, I know your your just think, okay, and I'm going to say this, like, you know, Joe used to struggle a lot in the morning.
And he's told me that himself.
But you have to realize, I know you're just think, okay, I'm going to say this like, you
know, Joe used to struggle.
And I'm not judging him on this.
But no, no, yeah, he used to he at that time.
He did a lot of opiates.
Yeah, yeah.
Okay, so he got the 91.
He somehow lost the 91 and started sending out mislabeled 91 in traits.
So yeah, so so he puts the onus on on IC collective, but reality may have been just a mislabel.
The reality, the reality is, is that from what I see told me, and I don't see any reason
to doubt him.
He said he absolutely would not give him the cut.
Well, yeah.
And then he definitely did.
And then CSI told me he absolutely did give him the cut.
Okay, so I kind of think that's how they got the cut.
Yeah, that don't make the most sense.
I don't know.
I don't know how long Joe brand had the real 91 before he lost it.
But when he started trading people, and that was that was like my buddy from Staten Island.
And other people's worst fear is they didn't want people to start trade baiting it all
over.
Yeah, which is exactly what Joe B and P bud started to do.
Yes, instantly except for everyone that got the dog from those guys didn't get the dog.
And you know what, we didn't even realize how how off that was until I think our first
real inkling of what had happened there was when Bodie started making crosses with the
88 g 13 hash plant.
And then that's when people are like, wait, what is this cut?
What is this weird cut?
You get into this thing, obviously, where, you know, okay, so you have you have Joe brand
and P buds version.
And then you have I see collectives his his memory of it.
And then you have Caleb's memory of it.
Right?
Yeah.
But what we know for a fact is that these cuts started getting traded around amongst
this little group.
That's how I see and Caleb got the one through the four.
Yeah, right.
Whether it was from I see or whether it was from Caleb or whether it was that it did.
They had it for a brief time.
Yeah, he lost it somehow.
But he either was scamming people or just had a mislabeled mom.
And was and had just gotten it and was trading it to all kinds of people for whatever else
he wanted to get for his garden.
Yeah, he was blowing it out there.
So maybe some people got the real dog.
And then later on, people started getting what became known as the JB cut.
Yeah.
You know, and then people are trying to figure out what the hell the JB cut is.
And it's like JB maybe knew or maybe didn't know that he was giving out a fake cut.
Yeah.
So that's where you know, so if you guys aren't paying attention, just go back and watch it.
We're not answering questions right now.
Don't even look at him not so.
So look at it.
So anyway, um, you know, according to, you know, and yeah, I mean, that's, you know,
the my understanding of it.
Some people call the JB chem, but I see collective said it was a diesel type and a shitty diesel
type.
Yeah, it wasn't as good as maybe it was a diesel bag seed or something along those lines.
You know, and so there's this thing where, you know, this stuff ended friendships in
a way like there's there's people that I have mentioned that don't talk to one another because
of ego around this cut.
Yes.
You know, to this day, you know, our buddy CSI, he didn't give it out forever.
And I think he waited even something like 10 years before he started publicly selling
seeds.
Yeah.
After he got it.
And he still gets gets flack for it.
Yeah.
Or whatever.
So it seems like what happened is so now you've got just so everybody knows you've got the
chem 91.
You've got the sis, you've got the D and you've got the one through the four.
Yeah.
So you've got seven actual chem cuts.
Okay, circling that family in any if you include the super scum.
I'm just talking about like, what supposedly came from the 13 seats.
Okay.
We're just limiting to that we're not getting into any of its children or any shit like
that.
Right.
So you know, so there's so there's a situation there where you know, we and the how we got
maybe I should say this how we got the D is that in oh six when all this stuff was happening.
Chem dog didn't know no longer had the dog.
Yeah.
And he hadn't had it for a long time.
But when it started getting famous and scum pha started getting rep for having this cut.
He wanted it back.
Right?
Yeah, he wanted to have the cut that everybody was talking about again.
He hadn't had it in a long time.
Right.
So scum va flies out to back east and gives it to chem dog gives the dog back to chem
dog and he gets the D in exchange and he comes back to California.
And that's how me and I see collective and some others all got it.
Yeah, was dude brought the D back.
Yeah.
Okay.
So yeah, you know, I mean, and so now there's so those are I think those are like the the
basic facts of it.
Yes.
You know, well, that's the basic human story of it.
That's the basic human story of it.
Okay, is that there was a couple cuts from 91 that survived.
There was one cut from 2000 that survived.
And there was there's two cuts from Oh, six that survived.
Yes.
The one and the four are still alive and verified.
The two and the three seem to be gone.
Yeah.
There's been some fake threes that have popped up.
It's one of the issues with when things that didn't get traded around so much, and they're
only held by a few people, you know, and some of those people aren't the most responsible
types.
accidents happen.
And so what we have today, as far as I know, is the real 91 is alive.
Yeah.
The sys is dead.
Yeah.
And there are some s ones that came from the sys, but the sys is dead.
That's what chem dog told me.
And I no one seems to have it.
So yeah.
So of the of the 91 of the 91 pop, the 91 is the only one that exists.
Yeah.
And of the 1000 pop, the D is the only thing that exists.
Yeah.
And of the Oh, six pop.
The one and the four both exist.
Yeah.
Right.
And out of that, obviously, there's things we haven't talked about yet, like s ones and
children of it and hybrids and so on and so forth.
You know, you know, so I don't know.
I mean, you know, that's kind of that's kind of the as far as I know.
There's you know, there's four there's four living original chem cuts.
Okay, so now let's go back to what we think they actually are.
Because I think this is what most people want to know.
We all know the stories.
We've all heard that same rough same story, maybe with a little additions between different
people's points of view for a long time.
So now we've got to figure out what the fuck are these things?
What was the dog bud?
What was what likely was it?
You know, so let's talk about that some of some of what so that's the that's so the the
aspect around someone's talking three CSI doesn't have three.
No, he does.
Just don't shut up.
You know, Matt, Matt, Matt and I are both really good friends with who he definitely
does.
He definitely does not have it.
He had it at one point.
Long time ago.
He had it at one point.
So you know, what's what's the best of them?
That's preference based, I suppose.
No, I will.
I will.
I will just I will just say my personal preference.
I think the dog and the D are two of my all time favorite cuts.
Not so likes the D. And like the D a lot.
You know, I do I do it's it's in it's in my top.
It's in my top.
You know, the tip.
You know, and whenever I show people the D they're impressed by it.
They are.
You know, they are impressed by it, you know.
So let's talk about let's talk about the 91.
What's your theories on 91?
So my theory on 91 is that we will never, ever, ever know what the hell it is.
The only thing that possibly offers us an opportunity is some kind of genetic testing.
But it comes from so long ago that I wonder if you'd even be able to compare it to anything.
Yeah, I can't imagine that comparing it.
You'd have to compare it to something.
There's nothing to compare it to for that.
So you just so let's put it this way, right?
Like I said before, lots of people were on dead tour, selling everything from burritos,
grilled cheese, LSD, we wear pants, clothes, everything you could imagine to make money
to stay on dead tour and to go see shows and to have a good time and to enjoy life, right?
Joe Brand and P Bud were some of the people that bought and sold weed on dead tour.
Okay, so they were constantly imagine you're on dead tour for several months, right?
And there was three tours a year, you know, spring, summer, fall, right?
So you're on dead tour, you're buying pounds of weed, you're breaking them down into ounces
and quarters and half pound houses or whatever, and you're slinging.
Yeah, somewhere amongst this sea of weed that these guys sold over the years, one sack became
famous.
They don't remember shit.
Right?
Like they never even knew that.
Imagine, imagine somebody came up to you when you were a teenager and was like, Hey, dude,
15 years ago, you sold me some weed.
And I got some really good shit out of it.
Yeah.
Right?
I mean, maybe if you only sold one or two strains, because that's what you grew, you'd
know, but these guys weren't hustlers.
These guys weren't growers.
They were brokers.
Yeah, they bought weed, and they took it on tour.
And they sold eighths and quarters and half ounces and zips to pay their way and to eat
and have fun and travel and whatnot.
Right?
So anybody saying that like, Oh, we think it comes from the skelly, or we think it comes
from this or we think it comes from the puck or we think that's all super conjecture.
It's all super stupid, in my opinion.
I know.
I'll say this.
Nothing that not the dog itself, the chem itself, and none of its progeny look like the puck.
To me, if people that have a problem understanding that it's because they don't have a basic
understanding of Afghanis, like there's so many different types of Afghanis.
And it doesn't, it doesn't ever throw puck phenos.
Never a putt.
Hash plant is so much different than Tim 91.
And I've seen so different lots and lots of phenos of hat of hash plant children.
Yeah.
And none of them look like the dog.
Yeah, none.
None of them look like the dog.
So I have.
So here we have, you know, I gave a basic outline of the story that there's a bunch
of shit going on.
Right.
And and now we get into the conjecture part, right?
Yeah, the conjecture part is like, is there's an aspect where you that sometimes the plants
tell you what's going on.
Right.
And you know, I've spent countless hours trying to figure out what's what's in the dog.
Okay.
And by breeding with it, it gives you some clues.
Okay.
So CSI and I both think that there's a good chance that it is literally an S1 or a bag
seed.
Yeah.
And the reason we think that is because when he S1s it, and he sells S1s, it doesn't have
a very wide genetic base.
Right?
It throws a lot of different types of potency, but it doesn't really throw a lot of different
types of looks.
Correct.
Correct.
You know, the other thing too is that, you know, the puck is short and squat and very
branchy.
The dog is very tall and lanky.
There are totally two different types of bud structure.
Completely, completely different plant structure, completely different bud structure, totally
different leaf structure.
Totally different terpenes.
You know, I think honestly, it's like people are trying to shoehorn what it could be, you
know, into what it is.
So one thing I've noticed about trying to figure out parentage over time, the best way
I've ever found to do it, and it's not always, it doesn't always work.
So this is just a general way of speaking.
But for Chem 91, we're having no idea of the parentage.
It holds true.
Because when you S1 it, you're going to see those parental phenos.
You're going to see them.
And it kicks phenos that have the same bud structure in some of its progeny, in the S1s,
that look like Sauer.
And Sauer to me is a typical super skunk type structure.
So at some point in its history, it's either a pure fucking Afghan Tee that ended up over
here, an Afghan Tee hybrid, or a super skunk hybrid, in my opinion.
So what I can say about the, let's start this this way.
What I can say about the dog is that by modern standards, it's not particularly pretty.
Correct.
It's not particularly frosty.
It's kind of dark.
And by looking at it, you would think it looks way midsier than most modern wheat.
Yes.
But it has super rare potency.
Yeah.
So as far as effect, it's an absolute champ.
It can taste good.
It can taste really good.
It can also taste just okay.
The potency is almost always there.
It's really, really hard to mess up the potency.
And so these name games happen, right?
Like I just mentioned some shit.
So the chem dog has gone from chem dog to dog to skunk VA cut to chem to chem to chem
91.
Yeah, the super skunk cut my buddy got in Virginia has gone by super skunk.
It's gone by mass super skunk.
It's by Western mass super skunk.
It's gone by skunk six.
And it may only be two of those things.
It may only be super skunk and skunk six and Western mass super skunk might have been
a totally I mean, I can say that, you know, my buddy who picked it up.
The guy told him it was super skunk.
Yeah, it said super skunk on the label.
And later on, we talked to the person who read it via our friend Johnny here.
And he said that it was a super skunk hybrid of sorts.
Basically what it sounded like is he was another kind of rainbow hippie type dude.
And he had some various skunks that he had gotten from Neville, you know, and maybe SSC
and he was crossing them back and forth to each other.
And the final thing he did was he crossed that hybrid he had into super skunk.
Yeah.
And that's what became known as the super skunk that is probably like I tell said earlier,
probably in sour as a chem 91 hybrid.
May I mean, I believe strongly that it is.
I believe it.
I believe and I have and I mean, I have I have some I don't have exact evidence.
I have some pretty strong evidence.
I think.
Yeah.
But so so there you go.
I mean, now we have now we have that's kind of the story.
And you know, it you know, there's conjecture.
What I will say is that I find it very hard to believe that the chem sys, the chem 91,
the D and the one and the four all came from the same hybrid.
Yeah.
They're different enough that it's that it seems to me this is where this is where it
would be amazing to have actual like human style DNA analysis.
Yeah.
You know, that was the big hope of the company that won't be named is is that they would
be able to, you know, take these long running things and clear up these family relationships.
So far, that isn't the case.
You know, I believe that.
You know, these things.
The thing is, is that people are talking about can we talk about some new stuff chasing ghosts?
These aren't ghosts.
These things are some of the backbones of modern cannabis.
I kind of said what we were going to be talking about for the beginning anyways.
Yeah.
You know, so, you know, there and you know, and back in the 90s, especially in 1991, there
wasn't very many seed companies.
There wasn't as nearly as many places to get things.
So what it comes down to is, you know, a lot of these things that came out in the 90s became
the backbone.
And even if you don't recognize them or have never had them, you've probably had tons of
things that they're in.
Yeah.
And let me let me throw this in there too.
So what when I when I when I research stuff, I break things down.
I try to use like a logic tree, like from, you know, philosophy, logic, like, you know,
you learn in college.
And we're still all starting on this premise that this guy that we know that sells weed
that was running low on weed, went home, kept some weed for a guy he had only met once and
sent him the same exact weed that he smoked in Colorado or wherever it was that he had
smoked it, sent him back the last of that weed and the weed that he gave him the first
time didn't have any seeds.
The bag of weed that he had at home didn't have any seeds.
But somehow that bag that Kim Dodd got had 13 seeds in it.
So there's a lot of a lot of room for human error in all of this, you know.
So we've got to start it.
It is a faulty premise from the beginning.
And if you try to break it down logically, you're like, oh, yeah, there's a lot of room.
Yeah.
Joe Brandon Peabody were dudes in their 20s selling weed to a teenager.
Yeah.
You know, yeah.
That's kind of and dude smoked the weed and they found some seeds.
You know, I so this is where we get to this is where we'll get to conjecture.
Yeah.
Right.
And we'll mix some conjecture with facts.
But this is I said everything before and it was kind of basic because I just wanted to
kind of give the timeline of of of fact of fact.
Yeah.
It's generally accepted.
Right.
Yeah.
And then we kind of go into what we think is in this stuff.
Yeah.
So I tend to think and CSI backs me up is is that most of the stuff out there are hybrids
of the dog or hybrids of chem 91.
Yes.
Right.
So, you know, when I people don't know this very well, but and don't this isn't an insult.
Don't take this the wrong way.
But after after my buddy had given chem dog the super skunk, the super skunk was legendary
for Herming.
Yeah.
Okay.
So in 1994, in 1994, the super skunk had harmed all over chem dog shit.
Yeah.
And chem dog called up my buddy in California and was raving about these hybrids that he
had found after the super skunk had accidentally pollinated the dog.
And just to inject this here, this is where I think Jesus was born in this general vicinity.
He so he he loved it so much.
And granted, he's only, you know, 1819 at the time or whatever.
Yeah.
He loved it so much.
He started growing these hybrids exclusively instead of the dog.
Yeah.
In 1994.
Okay.
And so this is the weed that he was selling.
And this is the way that was getting passed out that dudes were collecting seeds from.
Yeah.
Okay.
That they later popped.
And that became diesel one and two.
Yeah.
And then something in their room harmed again.
And of those seeds, people found what became sour.
Yeah.
Right.
There's a there's a there's a bunch of there's a bunch of bullshit that goes along with that
or whatever.
But it's, you know, it's hard because, you know, people like, you know, Klopp, who's
definitely involved in the sour and everything like that.
Yeah, at the time, you know, a chem dog and my buddy from Staten Island swears that no
one else on the East Coast had it.
Yeah.
He wouldn't give it to anyone on the East Coast.
So you start to get different people involved that start to claim different things at different
times.
Most of us obviously weren't there.
You know?
Yeah.
So, you know, it, what are you gonna say about those type of things?
Right.
It's another one of those things where people start to create certainty on a series of accidents
that happened when they were young and also partying.
Yeah, you know, and now they want to make it all intentional.
And you know, and so as a result, you know, I can see in real sour, I can see the 91 and
the super stoke.
Yeah, I personally believe that's the case.
You know, chem dog called my buddy and was raving about how much he liked growing the
hybrids that had accidentally gotten made.
Yeah.
And that he was filling up his rooms with them.
And that's all he was growing.
And he told him that in 1994.
1994 is the year that, you know, clop, you know, that weasel and Bondo and these guys
are getting this weed that they're finding the seeds in, you know?
Yeah.
So there you go.
As far as that goes, I actually believe that the D is a chem 91 by super skunk hybrid.
Yeah, I believe it very strongly.
That would make D either a sister to sour or it depends on which super skunk was used
because I know there were more than one in that.
I mean, I, I because you know, we did this project called the super dog where we tried
to take the density and the potency of the chem dog and blend it with the the look and
the frost and the flavor of the super skunk.
And so I you know, my buddies from Staten Island and I worked on it for a number of
years so I've seen a shit ton of chem super skunk hybrids.
Yeah, like a shit ton.
I've grown a lot of them.
And so to me, like I can just see both parents in the chem D. Yeah, you know, can I prove
it until we have perfect genetic testing?
No.
It's just we can never have proof.
Perfect genetic testing unless we have the baselines, which we don't.
I mean, it's you know, it should be possible.
It's not possible.
It could be possible like, you know, like human DNA, they could tell that you're not
a sister, you're a daughter.
Yeah, we could we could see some relations like that.
But we could never go back and say, you know, like, I'm just saying like, from the from
the 91.
Eventually, you should be able to tell her these sisters are children.
Yeah, from the 91 for sure.
For sure.
You know, because we at least have that.
Yeah. Right. And so, you know, the and the reason why I think that is because sometimes
the D smells like super skunk when you crack the jar.
Yeah, I think that dead, rotten body nastiness that everybody always haliatosis that they
always talk about. That's kind of a rank skunk kind of thing.
Yeah. The D herms sometimes like crazy in week three and four, which the super skunk
was famous for doing in the DS case, it's sterile pollen in the super skunks case.
It was super live.
Yeah. But I grew you know, I still have the the chem the chem dog.
I've grown it for, I don't know, 24 years now or something.
I grew the the super skunk for 10.
I think that they you know, I think that the sour the base of sour is chem super skunk.
And I think that it's very likely that the D is pure dog and super skunk.
And the one that can that nobody ever mentions that I've been fighting to get people to
give it its space in the family tree is diesel, which I think is the pure super skunk.
Just an S.
Yeah. I mean, the the you know, that the diesel is, you know, like I said, the the super skunk
through live pollen, both early and late.
Yeah. And I realized that it don't hurt when you don't make seeds after you have a
pollination of, you know, of of shit.
It takes a good four to six weeks for that seed to become ripe.
Oh, yeah. Right.
So if you've got some late Herm.
Unless you let that thing ride, ride, ride and ride.
You're going to have immature seeds.
So the fact I don't I see I don't think diesel looks more like anything at all, like D.
And even in the S1s, there's no D anything in it.
Someone mentioned that. So I mean, I guess what I'm saying is, is that the point I was
trying to make is that for for chem dog and these guys to be pulling out tiger stripe
seeds at eight, nine, 10 weeks, a lot of times the SS was was pollinating them through
Herm's two, three weeks into bloom.
Yeah. And that way by week eight, nine, 10, they were ready.
Yeah. Right. So it's very possible that diesel is an S1 of the straight super skunk.
Yeah. And doesn't have any chem in it.
Oh, my gosh.
Well, no, there's some good questions.
Now there's a question.
So we need to finish with with what the one through four are, all that stuff.
So so, yeah. So so to me, the.
That's what I think the D is, I can't prove it.
I would bet money, though.
I would bet money in how it breeds and how it smells and how it looks.
I think it's a straight dog SS hybrid.
Yeah. I saw some people mention the one through the four.
Do you think it has some NL five haze in it?
I think that's very likely after after seeing the one.
I think I think it is the quintessential example of a NL five haze dominant pheno.
In the chem one through four line, like it's more it's very little chem to me, it's
very NL five hazy.
Yeah. And so, you know, there's there's an aspect to it where it's like I just like to
say this because.
Once you get on the forums and once you start writing stuff and once you start chatting
about things, you're sort of locked into whatever you wrote.
Yeah. And I think that's been a problem for Chemdog.
Yeah. Because people asked him what he thought and he gave what he remembered.
And then people wanted like deep, deep, deep thoughts.
Yeah. On how it all went down.
And I don't I think he kind of spouted off as best he remembered.
And then people wanted a lot of information he didn't have.
Yeah. Right. It's indisputable.
There are two of my favorite cuts that these cuts came from dude.
Yeah. You know, however, they were formed, they exist.
That's the important part. They exist.
They're in the community. They've made amazing hybrids.
They're pretty awesome.
They're super potent.
They're nice. You know, the the interesting part about the one in the four, the one is
crazy. It takes like 12 or 13 weeks.
Yeah. OK.
The four takes 12 ish weeks.
Usually we have a buddy, Pip, that, you know, he takes it 84, 90 days every time.
Yeah. OK. It grows long running spears.
And so it's really interesting because the D is a very short squat Afghan lime green,
super skunk looking thing.
You know, the dog is a very weird looking non frosty Afghan.
The four is a super frosty long spears like your arm.
Twelve weaker.
So how do you get a nine weeker and a 10 weeker and a 13 weeker and a 12 weeker and
stuff that wants to be two feet tall and stuff that wants to be six feet tall?
I mean, it's possible. And the one's all mercy and dominant, like no chemi biolic type
stuff at all. You know, it doesn't, you know.
And so what I what I think is that.
The D and the dog are different.
The dog is the chem 91 and the D is the chem D.
So so basically what we have is we have these these various plants and two breeders.
They don't look the same and they don't they don't breed the same and their S1s don't
come out the same. So you would expect if you did a bunch of S1s of the chem dog that
you would start to see D phenos or four phenos or this or that if they're if they're
sisters and it's all in there.
Yeah. You would expect to see those things.
You would see those phenos. You don't see Jack that looks like any of those.
No, you really don't.
And CSI has run out hundreds of them.
Yeah. And other people have run out probably thousands of CSI S1s too.
You know, and so, you know, I think that, you know, I think that a lot of them are from
that. You know, that dog SS combo.
Yeah. You know, and so.
You know, I mean, the good part about it is is that the one is not is alive, but it's not
really well circulated because it doesn't look pretty enough and it takes it takes 13
weeks. But the four and the dog and the D are pretty well passed out.
And so lots of people have had them.
There's not really fakes of the four.
Yeah, I've never really seen people pass.
There's you know, there's been one or two fakes of the of the actual dog, but it's not
particularly common. The D.
There's a lot of fakes.
Yeah, tons.
There's a lot of fakes.
And so. There's some chaos behind all that.
I don't know if we want to get into all into all that, but.
And what I think I think the fakes of the D are all sisters.
Personally, I think he had a bag of dog super skunk hybrids.
Right. And when he lost the D, he went back in that same little bag and popped stuff.
And I think those and because because the thing is, that's weird, is that like three
of the so-called fakes can't people swear come directly from Chemdog.
Yeah. And that's probably the case.
I mean, the people that I know that got it from him, there's been a few people I'm
pretty sure I can trust that got things from him labeled as D that were totally
different. They were they were I mean, they all swear they got it directly from dude.
Yeah. And it ends up not being the not being the original D.
Yeah. It looks like the D smells like the D doesn't a lot.
Most of them don't grow like the D.
If you know how the D grows and they lay down the structure, they typically lack the
distinct flavor and the and the potency.
Yeah. But they look extremely close, especially in a bag or in a jar is dried weed.
Yeah. You know.
And so, you know, there's.
There's at least three, maybe four fake D's.
Yeah, there's a lot.
There's a there's quite a bit.
And I think those D's that got passed out later or bought from bought from Chemdog or
whatever, those things got trade baited all over the place.
Yeah. They got exploded everywhere.
Everyone wanted to trade the D, you know.
And so the real D kind of got buried.
The real became the least circulated of the D's.
Yeah, it's the least circulated because and I mean, this is this is this is starting.
This is going to get kind of political or whatever.
But like, I mean, we can just say it that most of there was a time where most of the
people in Colorado.
That are chem fam didn't have the real D.
No, it was the chemists.
This S1 most they went they went through two fake D's.
Yeah. And they didn't even realize that they had fake D.
No, you'd have to know to know they didn't they didn't know, and so they bred with it
and they traded it and they grew it and sold it and all this different stuff.
And it wasn't.
It wasn't.
It wasn't it. Yeah.
You know, I mean, in fact, I I went to an emerald cup once and I had a fresh jar of
real D. OK, there's all these people I don't need to name them.
There's all these people that are like fucking patting me on the back and they're
being like, dude, you did the most amazing job with this weed.
Yeah, this is unbelieve the flavor and the potency you got out of this weed is just
what the fuck did you do?
Yeah. Right. And it turns out, even though I was kind of proud of myself for a minute,
it turns out that the reason why they were so blown away by the flavor and the potency
was that I had the right cut.
And they did not have the right cut.
They had a different and people were trading all these different bags of weed around
that weren't the right cut, and they were amazed when they smoked the real.
Yeah. You know, and that and and this and this cut and it caused some embarrassment.
Because some of these people are, you know, chem fam or whatever, yeah, or tied in or
yeah, or whatever the case may be, you know, and so, you know, you're on you're on
Instagram and you're pontificating or whatever about like how you know everything.
Yeah. And then all of a sudden you don't have the real D and you try to get it crosses.
Yeah. And you get and you get the real D and then it turns out, no, that's not real
either. Yeah.
Yeah. Right.
And so those fakes just got traded so much that they drowned out the real D.
They also look similar in pictures and they look similar as dried weed.
They're much easier to tell when you're growing them side by side and they're much
easier to tell if you actually have a jar of real D to smoke next to them.
And there's also the little bit that the fake D or the chem CSS one kicks live pollen,
whereas the chem D doesn't kick live pollen as much, you know?
I mean, I've had I've had the chem D since 06.
I mean, maybe it produced a seed in that amount of time.
But yeah, so I'll answer that when my cut is super healthy, it almost never variegates.
If you can't get your D to not variegate, it's not the real D.
Yeah, there you go.
There's like there are people some call some of them dirty D.
Certainly when it gets hungry, I'll make people laugh.
And it likes cow mag.
It does. It's the chems are the chems are strong eaters.
And so sometimes if you're growing organically or whatever else and you have some
unavailability going on, it can variegate.
I have pictures of it variegating.
There's one on my page.
But when it's when it's tip top shape and totally healthy, you can really look really
close and you can see slight variegation on a leaf here and there.
But other than that, you really can't see it.
How prone to fox tailing is your cut?
Not.
Yeah, see, that's the other the main trait of the chem CSS one.
If you're if you're it's real fluffy and fox tailing, it's most likely not going to be
the one that people use.
Yeah, consider the original.
And so there's a you know, there's I mean, there's I don't know what's what's hard about
it is you want to tell the truth.
The finest chem D, I've smoked it.
It's a nice cut. It tests super high.
It's not the real deal at all.
And also also taking into account that it's been tissue cultured.
It has different hormones in it.
It's it's it the expression is going to totally be different.
So it would be hard to tell.
I'm not I you know.
Are you more skeptical on it?
It's not the D. OK.
It's not it's not doesn't mean it's bad.
I haven't seen it.
So it doesn't mean it's bad.
I mean, I've had friends that have grown it, that have bought it from finest and run it
and licensed gardens and stuff like that here in Mendo.
Yeah, it's a nice cut.
It gets you super baked.
It's not the real deal.
Yeah. You know, so, you know, there's an man, I don't know.
I mean, this is the point where it's like you want to tell stories and then you're like,
OK, well, what toes do I step on?
Yeah. Yeah. Whose toes do I step on?
And this is why the Kim story up until this date has only been told certain ways,
because like you tell this story like 100 percent as you as you can best tell it
with all the info that we have available.
It does step on toes, regardless, even if you don't want to.
It just yeah. You know, like Joe Brand and Peeba, they might get mad at me for saying
that the first time they smoked real dog was in 2006.
Yeah. You know, but it's a better story the other way.
But it's true. They did. You know, like people are asking them about all this and that.
And they sold a bag. They're very important to the story.
Yeah. You know, in the sense that like they kind of got it going, but then they don't tie
in again for another 15 years or something.
Yeah. So it's like people are going to get mad and send me some DMs about whatever, you
know, because, you know, and and, you know, there's an aspect to it, too, where it's like,
you know, then there's people that are, you know, approaching Chemdog and approaching
others. They want to breed with the deep.
They want to breed with the chem cuts.
They want you know, they want they don't want to get shit on for it.
They want to be chem fam approved.
Right. Yeah. And some people are like, you know, and some, you know, and so they grease
the wheels with money and they make it happen.
Yeah. And I'm not blaming dude for that or anything like that.
Like I I'm not trying to, you know, it's it's hard to make it, you know, somebody out
here for a pimp. Well, you know, I mean, there's there's you know, obviously there's
certain lines you shouldn't cross.
But how you monetize things and how you do certain things like that, like I don't really
think anything dude has done is crossed any lines.
So, you know, yeah, the CSI chems are totally worth hunting through.
Yeah. We said that like 90 times in this very, very, very much so.
The one thing that the chem, the chem 91 does more than almost any other strain.
It throws potency in all of its offspring.
Yeah. It doesn't matter whether it's out crosses, whether it's the S1s, there's some S1s
that are as potent or even more potent than the mother cut.
Yeah. You know, and so, yeah, they're absolutely worth hunting.
They're they're worth hunting from CSI.
They're worth hunting from skunk VA.
You know, if you have the real cut, you can make some really nice, really nice things,
you know, exactly.
You know, and then there's preferences to, you know, like as well.
Like I tend to think that the 91 is one of my favorite cuts of all time.
I have a nice one.
Yeah. And, you know, and and I have some good friends like Matt that are into it.
That, you know, they give it respect for its potency and its power and its place.
But it's not something they would be choosing to smoke every day.
Yeah, no, it fucks me up in a different way.
Yeah. You know, and so, I mean, maybe we'll maybe we'll maybe we'll say some shit about
the D just because it it I mean, maybe it should be said.
Right. Yeah.
So, you know, and I actually I think it's why is he laughing at me?
I don't I'm not you're telling me not to look and I'm trying.
I know. Sorry.
That was too good. Anyway.
And I think at times, you know, Kim Dogg hasn't been super trustworthy.
Not himself, but like with some of the people he was making deals with and there, you know,
there's aspects where I think maybe he gave out things, you know, he like, you know.
So, I mean, you know, when, you know, people don't know this because.
Yeah, you know, as far as I know, Skunk V.A.
has the real D. Yeah.
As far as I know, Skunk V.A. is a really cool dude.
And he's been very friends a long time.
I don't have anything but good things to say about him.
Lucky Dog Seed Co.
I think you'll find good stuff in his work.
He uses nice cuts.
Yeah. And most of his stuff, you know, so he's super transparent with me.
He's any question I've ever had.
He's been one of the most forthcoming out of all those dudes.
Oh, I think I think I think some of his some some of his interviews and stuff have been
quite honest from his perspective.
Yeah. So I got nothing but nothing but good things to say about about that.
You know, I will say, you know, mentioning the Colorado thing that.
Almost all of those guys out there had fake D.
Right, and they were convinced it was real D because they'd never had real D and they got it from Greg.
They got it. And they'll still argue till they're blue in the face that they had the real D, that it never was the fake one.
Yeah, they get pissed.
Yeah. That's yeah.
You know, but I mean, you know, I mean, that's the thing, too, is it's like and then because it got famous, all these people want to jump in.
And, you know, and sometimes like, you know, you get paid or you make some deal with someone and then it goes bad and you don't want to be embarrassed.
And so there's a lot of shenanigans that have gone on around it.
You know, and, you know, real Kim D is much better than the finest cut.
I mean, that's all.
But that's my speculation.
I would put I would put the real D in my probably top five all time strains that I like a lot for me.
Yes, it's everything, though, is so subjective.
Like we could never say that, like everyone's going to think this one's better than the other.
It just can't do that with weed.
No, but I mean, I will say we talked about Matt and I talked about it a little bit on our last live.
You know, I brought some real D a few times to our to our some of our gatherings that we would have during the Emerald Cup outside.
And it, you know, it put a bunch of experienced smokers on the ground.
Yeah. Why did people out?
You know, it really I mean, there was some people that were staring at the ceiling on the couch for a number of hours off a couple of bong hits.
Some people thought about going to bed early.
You know, it was it was unusually strong.
Doesn't mean the finest cut is bad.
I'm not saying that, you know, a lot of times people have this idea that if it's not real, it can't be good.
Yeah. And that's a different subject.
Yeah. You know, it can be it can be not real and good.
Absolutely. So there's an aspect to it where, you know, I don't know, maybe we'll throw some shade or whatever, but, you know, in Colorado, you know, a lot of people don't know this.
And they think that that he goes back fucking forever in chem fam or whatever.
But, you know, you know, Duke Diamond paid Chemdog a bunch of money for the right to grow strings.
Yeah. And he got he got the D and the and the Chemdog and whatnot from Chemdog.
And he paid, I don't know, like 30 grand or something like that.
That's how the story goes. That's how the story goes.
He paid a cheap paid a chunk of money, a chunk of money for the right to have the cuts and the right to breed with the cuts without a bunch of bullshit.
Yeah. You know, basically pay for vouching.
Yeah. Pay to pay for vouching.
Right. And so a lot of people think that he's he's had some deep tie or has been involved with the chems for a long time.
He never came into contact with them, I don't think, until he came out to Colorado and worked with your buddy, Matt Lee.
Right. Yeah, correct.
He never I don't think he'd ever maybe he'd smoked them before, but he never had them.
He never had access to them.
And when he wanted them, he couldn't get them from anyone out there that had them.
So he bought them. The only one I know he had early was Snowdog.
That's it. No, no. Yeah.
So, you know, so then, you know, he ends up he ends up breeding those cuts into everything because it's kind of one of the things when he started his own seed company that was like he was rocking the headbands and the chems.
Super hard. OK, so my buddy, I see collective.
He had lost the D and he had just been out visiting Colorado and he was like, well, why don't you send it to me?
Yeah, like, sure. So they send it to him and he grows it out and he calls him up and says, you don't have real D.
This is the this is what we call the Bundy sis as one.
Yeah. Not real D.
Not even close. Yeah.
OK, so for two years, three years, something like that, those guys had spent all this time breeding the D and everything they had.
And then they quietly had to change it to chemsis.
Yeah. They never intended on on breeding with chemsis.
And I'll give him credit for that.
He did actually.
He did change it.
Into chemsis. That's all credit because most people wouldn't even do that.
He did. He did change it, you know.
And then but it turned out that Pee Bud and Duke Diamond and and these other dudes out there, they all had fake D.
Yeah, it was it was Bundy S1, right?
Chemsis Bundy.
It was an S1 of the real chemsis.
They call the Bundy cut because Bundy was one of Chemdogs growing partners and one of the people that a lot of the growing was actually done by him.
He's passed away now, but it was kind of named for him.
Yeah, he's he's one of the other silent people in the whole history of Chemdog that doesn't get talked about a lot.
But I think he had more to do with the the genetics aspect and the crossing and any intentional crossing that would have been done would probably have been done by him.
He had he had a bunch to do about it, but he was like a lot of people, you know, there's there's the there's the forward guy that gets the fame.
And then there's some people behind them that are doing a bunch of the work, too, that don't get as famous for whatever reason.
And so one of the good things about that is that that schmuck joint breath tricked.
I mean, I think I can safely say, oh, yeah, he's got to be one of the rudest motherfuckers on I.G.
Yeah, he's a total shitbag.
But he he he tricked Pee Bud out of the dog and the Chemdy with promises of breeding and seed sales and collaboration and all that.
And then he turned around and just started selling cuts as fast as he could mother them.
And never gave Pee Bud a damn thing.
And never gave Pee Bud a damn thing and told him to fuck off and die, basically.
And he put some friendships.
Everyone that he got, everyone that got the D from that dude was fake.
Yep. Everyone.
He was selling three to five hundred dollar cuts of fake D.
Yeah. And that's how shit goes.
And the interesting part and this is the reason why I believe that all the fake D's are sisters to the D is that at least three of them that were absolutely positive came from Chemdog himself.
Yeah. And they're all very similar to the D.
Right. So, you know, to to to Chemdog, he's never been the type to be so militant about what strain it is.
When you were buying Chemdog weed, it was Chemdog weed because it was from Chemdog.
Yeah. He used to call the D Chemdog.
You know, you were buying Chemdog weed.
This is the Chemdog weed I have.
Here's Chemdog weed. Yeah.
You know, so for people that are like sticklers about things, that's not your guy, you know.
And so he was both the pre pre and the Kentucky skunk guy.
He was a lying, you know, he had the big tattoo on his neck.
He was super rude to people.
He was dishonest.
He lied. He stole.
He cheated. He was very unpleasant human being.
He's in Oklahoma, I think somewhere, but likely failing.
No, he did fail. He did.
He's back in his mom's. He's back.
Yeah. I mean, whatever he was, he was one of the rudest and shittiest people that I encountered on I.G.
Yeah. For those that don't know you, it is very hard to get not so to say anything about anyone that isn't a nice, like the only nice thing you could say about them.
I have rarely ever seen.
Yeah, I don't really. I mean, yeah, he just is just I don't know, just as a general human being.
But, you know, so so that's the thing is that there was a number of people that got a hold of Kim and there are some Kim people like my buddy from Staten Island.
He's retired now, but who really wanted to keep it very close.
Yeah. And, you know, and it got out and it caused a bunch of guff that it got out like a lot of other strains.
And, you know, so the chem says as far as I know, and I talked to Kim about this has been dead for a long time.
Yeah. There are several ones of it supposedly that exist.
The real D is alive and at least three or four fakes.
Yeah. You know, if you have what's called the dirty D and you like I said before, if you can't get the variegation to go away, it's fake.
And they look very similar.
No one is going to be able to tell you that you have the the real D by pictures.
Yeah, it's very difficult.
It's you know, when you smoke it, you know.
You know, I've grown some of them side by side with the real D and you can see significant growth differences.
Is as long as you have a control group like the real one to compare it to.
Yeah. You know,
absolutely. I believe that it's 91 SS and it was all accidental harms.
Yeah. The sour story and the chem story is all accidental hermaphrodism.
There is no intentional anything in it.
Yeah, it's all accidents.
You know, yeah, I mean, I never heard Bodhi say a bad word about anyone.
I don't really say a bad word about anyone.
I just literally think that like joint breath is one of the three worst people I've met on I.G.
Yeah, he's terrible.
And if you read his comments and how he talks to people and how he breaks his word and various that I don't even want to talk about it.
Well, he's just openly racist.
And that just is he just has all kinds of terrible qualities.
And so I figured I'd mention that because he literally turned around and started a clone business selling chem dog and D cuts.
Yeah. As soon as he got the moms big enough, that was likely his intention the whole time.
You know, it's not a stupid question, just ask, are the sour and D sisters?
Yeah, no, I think it's a great question.
I think it's a great question. I don't think so.
But only because
we know we know from the story of the sour that they got beans out of the.
They got beans out of this weed from from Chemdog, and it was it was very likely it was ninety one SS.
Yeah. So at that point, it's already a hybrid.
Right. It wouldn't be it wouldn't be the SS and the dog making seeds.
Yeah. And then they grew up those seeds and which called the diesel one and the diesel two.
And then those things harmed.
And out of that harm comes the sour.
Yeah. So do I think they're straight sisters?
No. Do I think they're very closely related?
Yes, I do.
So there's one little part we hadn't gotten into because it's kind of part of the story, but not.
And it's more of a recent type thing.
It sounds like and this is this is putting together stuff from Skumpia, from his mentor, me, Caleb.
Not to all of us, really, and everyone in our can illuminati group.
It sounds like at some point what was given out and taken pictures of and hybridized as mass super
skunk might not be the same original super skunk that came from V.A.
and was traded. So there is that little nuance.
So we should we should say this, too.
So there's an aspect to it where, like, people don't like to admit that they've that they've lost
things. Yeah.
And so you can go look on after this show or whatever.
You can go look and see those famous pics that Skunk V.A.
posted of the super skunk.
Yeah. From 95, 96, all that type of stuff.
And it looks very sour, like very long, very fierce, tall, lanky, stretchy, those type of buds.
The super skunk that got passed around Massachusetts and the stuff that was in the high times is a
much wider, much thicker, much shorter Afghani type.
Yeah. And so I think I can't say for certain, like I said, it's conjecture, but I think that, you
know, the super skunk itself and its children and its hybrids produced a variety of seeds.
And Chemdog probably had a bag of this seed and a bag of that seed and a bag of some of this.
And people have tried to recreate it.
Yeah. There was also some busts involved.
You know, there was some other issues.
There was various things, you know, and, you know, it.
I tell you from that, from that crew with Camillo in them.
Sorry, one second, because that that is one question I've always had, whether the one that's in
Gisle is the one that's in Sour.
There was a couple. There was supposedly a six and an eight.
Yeah. You know, we got, I guess what you would classify as the six, I suppose, although we
didn't find that out so much later.
But but that was the one that got that got passed it out.
I'm not going to answer which Sour is better and which one is the real deal.
We could do an entire Sour episode talking about it.
Oh, OK.
Yeah. All knowledge is from myganic.
Well, that guy is super. I mean, yeah, hard part about the hard part about the Sour crew is
that, you know, is that people have different memories of things, you know, and Weasel and
Vondo and some of these guys, they don't all agree on everything.
Weasel can't tell the same story.
I love the dude. He's super cool, super nice.
I love listening to him talk about history and stuff.
But he's had a very hard time being consistent in stories from one day to the next.
Literally, like there was a podcast maybe a week in between the two where he told
completely different stories about the history of Sour.
So when I'm going through history and stuff, when I see that, I usually toss it all out
because if it's an unreliable narrator, as far as being able to remember the story, well,
you know, consistently I toss it.
I will say this about this, the Sour thing is that because the Sour came out of a bunch
of hermaphroditic weed.
Yeah. OK. I believe there was a couple cuts even early on.
Right. And then Vondo, who was one of the guys that actually lived in the apartment where
the accident happened.
Right. Yeah. When he moved west, he took some seeds with him from that initial thing west
and sprouted and sprouted some and kept a cut in Southern California.
Yeah. According to him.
So I think, you know, I don't think that there was just one.
I think there was two or three.
And then, you know, it it became the most popular weed in America for 10 years.
And then fucking Rez named a strain and named his named his personal strain after it, sadly.
So who had the real one?
Who had the right one?
Everybody thinks the real Sour Diesel is the whatever one they saw first.
Yeah. Generally speaking, you know, that's true.
Yeah, I can say I can say this about the Sour.
I got the Sour in 2000.
And I've never lost it.
I don't know which one it is.
Yeah, but I've had it for 22 years now.
So, you know, is it the first?
Is it one of the couple?
You know, luckily for us, most of the diesel cuts are nice.
Yeah. You know, when people talk about real, when people talk, oh, I can trace it back to 95.
I can this. I can that.
You should buy it for five thousand dollars a pound because it's you know, that's a lot of marketing.
Yeah. I mean, but the Sour story is confusing.
You know, it is.
And it gets more confusing every day when people when newer people enter the scene and claim old heritage on their Sour cut.
And, you know, a lot of people are still the past five, six years and they don't know these people are new.
It just conflates it more.
And over the years ago, it's gotten even fucking crazier.
Yeah. And so there's a thing, too, where it's like there's a lot of people that had Sour back in the day.
And they got rid of Sour.
Yeah. And then they got it back and it wasn't the same one.
So it's very difficult.
The vast majority of people, I mean, I see, you know, I see people chatting about this or whatever.
I mean, you know, if people remember, I'm not even calling dude out, but if people remember, you know, Jay Plant Speaker went through a two or three year period where he thought that like seeds, you know, only growing from seed was the way and the clones were bunk.
You know, he was very you had probably had he's deleted them all now, but he's had hundreds of posts about it.
He was super into seeds.
The market changed on him and, you know, in 2017 or something, he got that Sour back, you know, and so he he's had this he's had the Sour about four years.
Yeah. Does that mean that he didn't he had it in the past at some point?
You know, but most people had to get it back because they moved on to other shit.
Yeah. And that's how a lot of things get lost is people are like, oh, I don't need that right now.
Homies got it. I'll just get it back whenever.
And then they keep getting back the thing that they don't remember.
Yeah. You know, so, I mean, I have this thing and it's expensive and it kind of sucks at times, but I like to keep weed that I like.
Yeah. You know, and so some of these things I've just kept for a long time, like if I lost my Sour, I would never be able I all the ones I've gathered aren't the one that I have.
Yeah. You know, if I lost the real D, I mean, I know a couple of people, thank God.
But like if I was trying to find it, like one of you guys out there in the community, it would be really fucking hard.
Yeah. Because there's more fakes than not.
You know, and so, you know, AJ doesn't even the cut that AJ grows and moves now isn't the cut that people got as AJ's 20 years ago.
Yeah, no, I can speak to that personally at the first Adam Dunn Cup when he brought out his AJ Sour.
We were all standing around just expecting because it was one of the first times he'd come out in quite a while.
And he was there with JJ and he brought out this jar and said, this is my Sour.
So we're all kind of hanging around it.
Let's see what this fucking AJ's grown Sour looks like.
And I shit you not, everybody just kind of took a whiff of it.
It was it was not it was not Sour.
As we know it, it was very, very different.
Yeah, I mean, you know, been a really bad cure.
It may have been any numbers things.
But yeah, I don't know.
I mean, there's people that have the modern AJ Sour cut.
Yeah. And there's people that have an AJ Sour cut from long ago.
And they're not the same.
No, um, Big Worm had a older AJ Sour cut and it was dank.
It smelled like Sour, you know, but I've had I've smelled AJ's new Sour and it is not the same thing.
People are saying, does anyone else have and work the same Sour that you do?
I don't know.
How how could I know?
Yeah. You know, I mean, I don't know.
I mean, people call my headband Notso's headband because I seem to be one of the only people that kept it.
Yeah. It's not like it's mine, but people are trying to figure out some way to name it.
And there's like eight headbands or something.
So, you know, it, you know, there's an aspect to it where.
What's real? Yeah.
You know, you know, there's there's got to be five or six years ago with Matt and some of our friends on our discord and stuff like that, and back and forth, we started chatting about aspects and they kept asking me, which Sour is it?
Is it the Choco?
Is it the Rez cut?
Is it the AJ?
Is it the the East Coast Sour Diesel?
Is it the Shroomy cut?
Amish? Is it?
Yeah, there's so many.
And I was like, I don't fucking know.
I have no idea.
I know you were talking about.
What are you talking about? Because I never got any of those because I got the Sour long ago and never lost it.
So I thought I had the Sour.
So why the fuck would I trade someone else for it?
Yeah, exactly.
Right. So I start collecting these things and I get the New York City Diesel and I get the East Coast Sour Diesel and I get the the Amish.
And this and this and this and this.
And I'm like, OK, I'm going to figure out which one mine is.
Yeah. And I grow them all out and none of them are mine.
So I was like, oh, you know, it seems like the East Coast Sour Diesel or what some people call the East Coast Sour Diesel and the Choco are the same.
Yeah, I was the one who named it Choco cut.
And it was only because when people would ask me like, hey, which cut is yours?
Choco had the best representation and grow.
And so did Cobb, for that matter.
And it was the best representation and grow.
That's the same cut that is that that the Devil's Harvest crew, Scott Reach and all those guys.
It's the same cut that they run as Sour.
And it's the same, most likely the same cut that CSI uses as well.
Amish and Shroomy are the same cut, right?
I have no clue.
Those are two I've never grown.
So, I mean, I, you know, I tend to like, you know, this might sound self-serving or whatever.
I like the one that I have the best.
Yeah, and I like the one I have best, you know, that's how it goes.
I like that one the best.
I do think that the one that my buddy, our buddy Pip gave me that was ECSD.
Yeah, it was the mother of the Death Star.
Yeah, that one I didn't like as much.
But yeah, I, I like that one a whole bunch.
Yeah, that's the people say S1, you're sour.
The reason why Sour is notorious for not throwing pollen.
Yeah, you know, it is horrible.
You can cross things to it.
Right. And Amish is the Pennsylvania one.
Yeah. And it got called Amish because of that.
So there's, you know, we've had friends that have reversed the Sour and gotten like 15 seats.
Yeah. If that, if we had friends reverse the Sour multiple times and completely fucking fail.
And people that are pretty proficient at reversing, not just me, but others.
And yeah, it's just not.
And CSI, various other friends.
Pip, you know, reversed some and literally got like a personal amount.
Yeah. And reversing stuff and having it fail is expensive.
So, you know, it's very difficult to.
So there's and, you know, and Sour is a wide, you know, it's like everyone.
How do I put this the right way?
Everyone claims to like diversity, but they still want to find the fire in every pack.
Yeah. So you start selling some sour hybrids and start throwing a bunch of a bunch of junk amongst the gold and people are pissed.
Yes. Because they don't want to buy 100 seeds to find a couple that are fire.
Yeah. You know, so Sour has been a difficult breeder and it doesn't S1.
It doesn't seem any of the cuts S1 well.
Yeah. Which is why you rarely ever see Sour S1s for sale.
Yeah. If you do, you should probably be fucking Cyanide in that shit.
Most often the Sour cuts that are sold or that are reversed or something was reversed onto them.
Yeah. It takes pollen fine.
Yeah. It makes, you know, it makes seed.
It makes hella seed with that blue bonnet cross that I did.
It makes all kinds of seed.
Yeah. But, you know, making seed of itself.
Not so not not so simple.
Not so not so simple.
As far as that go.
I you know, honestly, dude, there's there's another question.
I people think I hoard.
I don't hoard.
But I also sucks at passing.
I don't I don't I don't suck at passing either.
What I suck at is I don't I don't like to mail.
Yes. I'm very I'm very in person.
Yeah. Like if if we can meet, that's good.
If I have to mail you something, it's I'm not good.
I try to meet at truck stops.
I don't get it. You know, and so people are saying Death Coast Diesel, Death Coast Diesel from Pip.
Pip, I'll say this in in in full disclosure.
I'm biased because Pip is my good buddy.
Yeah. Both of our good buddies.
So take that as you will.
But I will say that his sourine, there's a number of his hybrids that a lot of fire has been found.
Yeah. Yeah.
His rubber city, his sourine, some of his other sour work.
You know, he's my good friend.
He cares. He has real nice cuts.
And yeah, he's as serious about provenance as any of us.
Like he is very serious about it, getting it right.
And but yeah, there's a there's a bunch of people and I don't want to I don't want to judge people.
Right. But there's a bunch of people that monetize their access to cuts.
Yeah. And sell cuts to whoever to make money.
I've never sold cuts to make money.
I give cuts to my personal friends.
So people would be like, oh, you're a fucker.
You don't give your headband out.
And I'll be like, what do you mean?
Like half my crew lived off the headband for years.
Yeah. You know, like if you're my personal friend and we're good buddies and or, you know, whatever, like I tend to share if we're not like and you're like, hey, can I just buy this thing off you?
I've just I've just never monetized cuts I've given.
And I'm not even judging.
I'm just saying that, like, I typically give I typically trade with people that I think are like have have a good heart and you weed the same way that I do.
You know, and so, you know, that's it's I don't really sell cuts.
I'm not I'm not hyping.
That's the other part of it, right, is that I don't I don't like I'm not hyping it for you to buy anything from me.
Yeah. You know, original D is a tough one to find info on because I did a live feed just trying to show how to find info on something and use that as an example.
I can't trace the day record.
I can't trace it.
I can't trace it back past a certain point.
And it's frustrating because it's one of my favorite cuts.
So I'll say this to the sour has a super confusing story because the people involved don't all agree exactly what happened.
Yeah.
And well, Duke, someone saying what headband is Duke using?
Duke is in a federal halfway house getting out of the clink.
He's not using anything.
He doesn't have any plants.
He's not reading anything.
The cut he had before is what we call the the 56 day.
It's an OG type.
He never had the L.A.
He never had a day record.
He never had anything like that.
Yeah, he doesn't have anything right now.
But he so.
So there's an aspect where before I lose my train of thought, the sour story is tough because everybody back in the day got their sour cut, helpfully labeled sour.
Yeah. All these other names came about when the forums happened so much later than that.
Right. And Rez Dogg fucking made a made a line of seed called Sour D and Sour was super popular.
But we know quite a bit about the story.
We just can't figure everything out because people don't agree.
Yeah. The headband story is basically a total fucking mystery.
People pop up here and there and people pop up here and there and say, oh, I know.
But who did it?
Who named it?
How they do it?
I can I can say this.
I got my headband cut in in very early 2000s and I've never lost it.
OK, it's a diesel type.
OK, the what people call the 56 day is a renamed OG Kush.
Yes. There was violence in the Kush family down in Southern California.
A guy fled to the bay with that cut.
He wanted to grow and sell that cut.
He didn't want the stress of whatever was happening in Southern California to follow him.
They decided they were going to rename the cut.
They decided on the name headband.
Yeah. And a dude in the bay, a dude in the bay.
What gave out a mislabeled tray.
Of that headband.
Yeah. And that's how Bob Hemphill, I see collective myself right around 05, 06 or something like that.
We all got it. Yeah.
Loompa headband is also likely a renamed OG.
Yeah. And he'll get super pissed at me for saying this, but it didn't pop up until about 08 or 09.
Yeah. You can get pissed off.
But that's I mean, it's just that even from him back when we were close, he would say it's just a fucking OG.
You know, it's it's it's likely an OG s1.
Yeah. You know, it it popped up by the time that he was talking on the forums about having it.
I'd had my my headband for eight years.
Yeah. Something like that.
I've been trying to look for information on exactly what my headband is for 20 some years.
Yeah. Not easy.
Yeah. It's not easy.
There's just certain things that the headband is a very mysterious story.
The 707 headband is the child.
It was made by Mandelbrot.
It's the child of my headband cut.
And my headband cut was actually passed out quite a bit in Humboldt Mendo.
But it's really finicky and a pain in the ass.
And people got rid of it because Sauer was easier to grow.
Yeah. So that's that's the deal with the 707.
The 707 Mandelbrot took the L.A.
the the L.A. cut, which we call it the headband cut and crossed it to an Afghan and sold it as the 707.
He made it in Humboldt.
That's the area code up here in Humboldt Mendo.
So that's why he called it the 707.
And so after post-swerve releasing his Sauer OG,
almost every single cut that was found from that was called something headband.
So at that point, I mean, I've actually I've actually wondered if my headband cut is
from the sour seeds that Vondo popped in L.A.
Could be. Yeah.
He told me he popped seeds and he got a really nice vino of it.
I don't know. That's complete conjecture.
But, you know, I it's very closely related.
Yeah. But actual information, it's kind of like when we talked on the live actual information about Urkel,
the who, the what, the where and the how.
No, no.
People don't know nothing definitive, nothing definitive.
People have a shit ton of names that they apply to way too many cuts.
Daywrecker, you know, original boy, original, right?
Lumpa, this, that, whatever.
Underdog. The underdog.
Oh, gee, I don't know.
Underdog. Oh, gee, it's just Lumpa's headband renamed.
It's all the same shit.
All of it's the same shit.
Candy Cut, the Firebomb Indica, Hawaiian headband.
It's had so many fun.
Actually, I'll say this.
Lumpa, you know, Lumpa was very open with his friends that he renamed the Lumpa headband,
whatever he wanted to to market it at the time.
Yeah.
He gave it.
Confusion causes sales.
Yeah. He, he gave it four or five different names.
Yeah. It's a great, it's, it's very, it's a shitty breeder.
None of my friends.
It's very inconsistent.
Let's put it that way.
It's very inconsistent.
And, um, but it's a nice cut.
Yeah. Definitely gets you high.
Definitely works.
It did good with the bonnet.
That was, I expected a lot more diversity with the bonnet, but it made some fire
when it came to the bonnet.
It was a nice cut.
It was a nice cut.
It was a nice cut.
It's a lot more diversity with the bonnet, but it made some fire shit with the bonnet.
But I've had other Lupus headband crosses that were just shit bombs.
And it's just inconsistent.
So all the stuff with all the stuff with Sauer and headband and the diesel family,
there's some fact and there's some conjecture.
And I doubt, um, you know, I doubt that it will ever be completely cleared up.
Yeah.
Even the guys involved don't all agree.
And as Matt mentioned before, uh, weasel or whatever, um, you know, he's talked
and written multiple different stories.
Yeah.
There was a guy that was wanted to ask about origins TK or whatever.
Uh, that's another one where the same gentleman has written three completely
different stories, different strains, different years, slightly different versions.
And so even if you want to believe that one of those versions is true, they can't all be true.
Yeah.
They can't all be true.
And in his, he's just seems to be more, more sure about what it was than he was in
the past.
I think that's the best way I'd put it.
And in the, in the beginning, he said in 1994, he got hired by the guys that he was,
he was being paid for to grow, to go to Amsterdam and mule some seeds back.
And they bought half a dozen different seed packs and they grew it all in this 12
lighter.
And it hurt.
And one of them, they missed a male or it harmed on this triangle that they called the
triangle because it was from the triangle area.
Yeah.
And then he told us a couple, he was on our discord a few years ago and he told us that
he went there in 91.
Yeah.
You know, his current story was, he went there in 89.
Yeah.
Um, you know, so he's, he's, he's written three completely different stories with
different times, different plants, different strains listed.
So, I mean, what do you do with that?
Yeah.
What are you doing?
The same dude has three versions of events, you know?
Um, you know, I, uh, my favorite OG, I think a lot of the OGs are good.
I don't think they're a lot different than each other.
I never understood LA's fascination with 40 different cuts of OG and having fucking
dispensaries filled with 27 different types of the same fucking thing.
Yeah.
Uh, I tend to think the oldest ones are good.
Uh, the TK I like a lot.
Um, certainly like the TKS ones from CSI are amazing.
Um, I like the flow rider, which I got early.
Um, so you know, I, um, you know, there's, uh, there's a lot of stuff that goes on
with that, that famous cuts.
That's what happens with famous cuts.
People rename them.
People get bad bags, seeds and put their own name on them.
Right.
Uh, people call them different names to sell them to different groups of people.
Yeah.
Who you get it from it basis.
What name you call it?
Because that's who they called it.
Um, the ghost OG, um, the ghost that's traded today.
Isn't the ghost OG that was traded long ago.
No, not the same cut at all.
I ghost that goes around as ghost.
Isn't even the same ghost.
The ghost that goes around as ghost now, isn't the original ghost
that was getting passed out.
And that original ghost was getting sold to people for 30 to $50,000 a cut.
I'm talking about the guy that goes around as ghost.
Isn't even the same.
Yeah.
The guy that got ghost throw isn't even the, isn't even the original ghost that
actually traded it in the very beginning.
Yeah.
That's not the person that cut was named after.
Chem 91 is, is, I mean, you could call it very bland.
I will say, and I said it before that.
Not always does the flavor pop on chem 91.
The potency and the effect for me is almost always there.
The flavor that I like comes out about once every three rips.
So I, and I've talked about my favorite chem 91 version, um, was a chem 91
hybrid from elite cannabis.
And the reason I liked it so much was because it was true to the chem 91 looks.
Smell was more, more turpy and the flavor was so fucking insane.
So if any of you guys can get ahold of resurrection, it's a great chem 91 seed
line, chem 90, you know, chem 91 is chem 91 is actually quite a bit like sour.
Uh, sour can be pretty fucking hard to nail.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You get it to reach its genetic potential.
It is absolutely bomb.
Yeah.
Um, very midsy before myself.
Yeah.
I mean, there was, uh, I, I believe I I'll answer.
I'll answer dude.
Cause he's tied into homie, but, um, I see collective, I believe he got the dog,
the 91 in 1997, right after he graduated high school, he moved in with skunk VA.
Yeah.
And they lived together.
Uh, he skunk VA was growing and that was the first place that I see
collective lived outside of, um, outside of his parents' house, you know?
And so, yeah, he got it.
He got it right around 1997.
And that was multiple years before any of us saw OG.
Yeah.
I mean, even if you listen to like, um, uh, bubble cushions story and those guys,
I don't think they even moved West until 1996.
Okay.
I got a question for you.
Not to, how likely do you think it is that Northern lights is
responsible in any way for chem 91?
I think that it's a reasonably good chance.
Interesting.
There you go.
Um, I can't post it here, but, um, I was talking before about our buddy Pip and
Pip had a, uh, 88 day chem four.
Yeah.
Okay.
That he had, um, put on that he had just gotten done and I had him open an 89
catalog of the seed bank Neville's Neville seed bank and put it right next
to a bud of NL five Hayes.
And it was like, it was really close.
Okay.
So you're, you're referring to chem four being probably at it, but how about chem 91?
I think it's a reasonable chance.
I mean, uh, CSI, not, I mean, which, which NL, I mean, look, um, in nine, in, in
1990, 1991 NL was one of the most common things you could buy.
Yep.
There was NL one.
There was NL two.
There was NL five.
Um, there was multiple hybrids of each.
So, um, do I think that, uh, do I think that it could be in there?
Yes, I do.
Um, I think it, I think NL and skunk and Hayes are likely in most things.
Yeah.
At least one of the three.
And sometimes I tend to disagree on, on NL five being in chem 91 only because
it's so, it's so uniform and stable.
You didn't say NL five.
I think NL is in it.
Okay.
But I still think it's more likely going to be an Afghan T descendant.
It could be, it could be entirely possible, you know, move it out of the NL range.
Personally.
But, but that, but that's what I'm saying is that, you know, we're, we're going on 31
years now since the seat is popped.
Yeah.
Um, this part is all theory.
This is you could sit there.
We don't know that it came from dog bud.
We don't know if it came from the dog bud that was sold on the lot to chem dog.
We don't know if it came from weed later.
We don't know shit.
Yeah.
We know some weed sold on dead tour led to the chem 91.
Yes.
That's what we know.
Yeah.
And it was given it was the weed was sold to a 17 year old.
Yeah.
By some early 20 something weed hustlers in a parking lot.
Yeah.
Out of, out of the car at a dead show.
So not exactly, you know,
yeah, the closest thing that I've ever seen to 91 and just growing general
Afghani different types, there was an old bizarre, um, land race that Soma was
selling and I think DNA sold it as Afghan, some kind of Afghan, um, for a while they
were relabeling it, but it was an old bizarre and it was very home prone and it
grew very much like chem 91 and list white pistols, uh, had a little bit of
the leaf cannibalization stuff.
Um, just the general structure, resin production.
And then the Afghani one has a lot of similar traits, which for a long time, I
thought it's gotta be an Afghani one for sure.
So tell the Afghan tea stuff kind of came up.
I'll, I'll throw something that, that throw through me for a loop.
Um, at one of our little can illuminate Kanna Illuminati parties that we threw
during the Emerald cup, CSI came down and was hanging out with us that weekend.
And him and I had a long chat about whether or not chem 91 could be an S one
from NL five Hayes.
Yeah.
And it kind of blew my mind because I'd never really considered it, but it does
have rare potency.
It is tall.
It does take a long time for an Afghan.
Yeah.
Uh, we do start these lives late.
Uh, we're Cali.
I can't help it.
Um, I'm sorry.
It's late.
And, uh, but that's the way it goes.
Uh, elite cannabis from Colorado is legit.
Yes.
Very much so.
And so, so, you know, Cale, uh, Caleb wondered, you know, could it have been an
S one from an L five Hayes and it just leaned toward the NL side and that, and
you know, and he thinks it's an S one of something, not a full hybrid just because
of the narrow range of Finos it throws.
Yeah.
Like it kind of throws itself.
Yep.
And so from a breeding perspective, that's a really good hint that, um, it's,
um, self self.
Yeah.
Yep.
That's a really good hint, but I do not believe ever.
Um, I think the only path to any kind of certainty is eventually DNA testing that
is as accurate as human DNA testing.
Yeah.
And I have no idea when that is going to pop up.
Sure.
Was it?
Filos?
We are not going to get any amazing new information from Joe brand or P bud or
chem dog or anyone that clarifies it.
Yeah.
We're just not, you know?
So, um, and that's not a dis on them.
It's just, you know, a bag of weed was sold that, you know, I mean, you know,
everyone wishes that like some of the most important things you ever do, you'd
realize it was one of the most important things you'd ever do.
Yeah.
But sometimes it's just Friday night.
Yeah.
Sometimes that ain't how it is.
You know?
Um, well, we still have people in here.
I'm going to say, uh, I'm going to throw up some auctions at the very end on my
website.
Uh, luckily the websites backup running.
We got credit card acceptance, the sprays up there to get, you can, we have cash
for money order, ready to rock.
Um, I'll throw some options up there for something.
I'm not sure what, but it'll probably be breeders packs of stuff.
Uh, I might do the, the, the blue sour breeders packs because it's a very, it's
very true breeding to the sour side as opposed to Barry doesn't come through so
much.
And I might do maybe a pack of the, um, um, sour dub cross to Jeezel, something
like that, where it's very super strong.
Um, super stock dominance.
So I wanted to plug that in there, right?
Tico.com and, uh, go check out speakeasy seed bank.
They also have some other stuff up there.
Um, yeah.
So now we got that done.
If you want options, go there after this, back to the story.
Um, people are talking about, can you just get a grow license and, and do it all
legally?
The problem with getting a grow license and doing it all legally is that then it
occurred right now and incur so much expenses to go legal in just about any
state that it makes it really difficult for people to just wildly experiment with
no financial benefit.
Yeah.
It would be amazing if that was the case and legality.
I was hoping for a while would really open things up, but it's kind of limited
things in a way.
Um, you know, because it's got, it's so financially expensive, you really have to
win.
Um,
it's going to be less and less coming up because with more, with more, uh, uh,
laws going down about space, how many plants you can grow, all that it's good.
There's going to be a lot less playing time.
You know,
I mean, people say, just said Oklahoma, even in Oklahoma, most of the people that
out in Oklahoma that, that are doing it cheap, they're blowing it up right now to
make a bunch of money.
Most people out in Oklahoma went there and lost.
That's, that's why, I mean, that's the thing that people want to know, like, is
that all the, all the breeding that I did for a long time was financially very
stupid.
Yeah.
Because I could have taken this, I could have taken that same space and pumped out
weed that sold for way more.
Yeah.
You know, uh, way more, you know?
And so that's why that's honestly why like so much stuff comes from like a
relatively small group of people.
Yeah.
Because most people, if they're given the opportunity to grow weed, they just try to
grow as much weed as they can of something that makes them the most money.
Yeah.
And especially 20 years ago when I was doing a lot of my breeding, um, before,
before you could monetize like with IgE and all these different things, and you could
be a little personal American breeder.
Yeah.
Like breeding was like a labor of love.
You know, my buddy from Staten Island talked about, you know, how, how many seeds
you could make in a, in an eight lighter versus how many pounds.
Yeah.
And he was like, man, if we could just sell these even for a dollar or two, we
could wait way more money than that eight lighter could make.
Yeah.
But we didn't have the infrastructure or the internet or the this or that or
whatever, in order to like, actually like, you know, and then even when we did get
the internet, I was on the forums during the cannabis world and overgrow era.
And then they busted heavens, get heaven stairway.
And they shut all that shit down and a bunch of people got in trouble.
And I kind of hid on the forums until IgE.
Yeah.
Because I wasn't a computer expert and I wasn't good.
I wasn't going to be like masking my IP address and masking this and hiding.
Like I wasn't computer savvy.
And you're not, you're still not computer savvy.
No, but I just mean in the sense of like trying to get away with like selling a
bunch of illegal shit to people I met on the internet, it didn't seem, it didn't
seem, uh, it didn't seem wise.
Even when I got into it, I was one of the first people to sell worldwide from the
U S and everybody thought I was a fucking idiot for doing it.
And I probably was, you know, like it was more risk than I should have taken at the
time, but, um, yeah, that even the idea of that just wasn't happening even when I
came into it, which is much later than you.
And it's hard.
I'll say this too.
Like I, you know, I don't want to say like, you know, some people might interpret
when you talk about truth or you talk about your opinion, uh, there's a, there's
a real common thing right now where people talk about, Oh, you're a hater or,
Oh, you're dissing me or something like that.
I'm not really trying to do that to most people when it comes down to it, but.
You know, people have their version of events and people have their version of
and most of the time people only tell you the truth in cannabis.
If it financially benefits them.
Yeah.
There's a lot of things that are sort of like commonly known amongst the tight
circles that don't get put out to the common.
I don't want to say common's the wrong word, but to the masses, because
they don't want the blowback.
Yeah.
You know, they don't want, they don't want the attacks.
They don't want the, you know, you're calling me a liar.
Oh, you're saying that like something I said once was inconsistent.
I thought we were bros.
You're supposed to back me up.
Yeah.
And that's how a lot of stuff stays secret.
And that's why it took this long for a lot of this to even come out.
Would I collab with Bodhi?
Sure.
Um, uh, Bodhi is again, he's a, he's a fucking Lobo.
Bodhi is a good friend of both of ours.
Um, you know, I, uh, yeah, you know, um, most of the time, honestly,
I, uh, you know, I, I, I use flower to survive and seeds were the passion.
Yeah.
For some people it's reversed and seeds are the way to
survive and flowers, the passion.
You know, I grew, I grew flower to survive.
So seeds were, I mean, I gave away, I haven't really sold seeds, but I
gave thousands and thousands of them away.
Yeah.
And entire seed companies were created off of it.
Um, because back then the goal to be Frank wasn't, uh, wasn't rapper money.
It was trying to make better weed.
We didn't think there was any money in seeds.
Yeah.
You know, do we, do we think the dankity dank is going to disappear?
It could.
Yeah.
It's under real risk because the powers that be don't really care
about, as you put it, dankity dank.
Yeah.
Um, everybody that spends dollars with companies, you're, you, you're
using your dollars like votes.
It granted is not a political process, but it kind of is.
And if you keep supporting companies that keep doing these like
nonstop gelato hybrids cookies.
Oh my God.
Let me enter.
Let me interject.
Sure.
Since he does get a bad rap these days and it's well-deserved because
since he outsourced all of their work to Spain, yeah, they are, they are not
the legends they were in the nineties.
Correct.
They, I don't know what, what else they have.
I don't know how much they have.
That's real.
I know they got busted in 1999, 2000, and they moved their operation
out of Holland and to Spain.
And they get third parties to make their seats.
Um, could they have one or two strains among there that they sent to those
people and they have, and it's semi what it was, I suppose, but they
sell everything that they used to sell.
They even use the same fucking pictures that Neville had in
his seed catalog from the eighties.
They have not, they have not updated their pictures.
Yeah.
30 plus years.
Yeah.
Ever.
Yeah.
I mean, you know, if, you know, if you want better weed cross
things that you like together.
Give out seeds to your friends.
Hold on to seeds, hold on to clones that you think work really good for you.
Try to get some friends to back them up too.
You know?
I mean, that's, that's really the way that the, as the dankity dank will
survive, better weed will survive.
If people make it a point, even if it's financially expensive to them, you know,
to keep it, you know, that's really what's going to go down.
So do you think we hit all the salient points of the chem stuff?
I think, uh, I'm going to try to keep it in that region for a good podcast.
Audio podcast.
Yeah.
We can, I mean, even like when we went off on sour and headband and stuff,
I consider that chem family.
Yeah.
It's still all very relevant.
Um, you know, and so, um, but yeah, I mean, basically what it boils down to
is that, uh, chem dog, um, through a series of accidents and sheer luck.
Uh, some really, really incredible strains came out of his little circle.
Yeah.
And I think honestly, he's more of a glassblower than he is a breeder nerd.
And I don't say that.
I don't mean that in a bad way.
People have different interests.
He's a very talented glassblower for sure.
Yeah.
Him, him being able to share some of this stuff with my buddy from Staten
Island and share it with other people and have some Herm accidents happened,
kind of changed the face of cannabis.
It did.
And so he deserves a lot of credit for that because he, as a teenager was
growing weed in a totally illegal state and on an undergoing risk.
Yeah.
And so if I've said some things that counter contradicts his like
official word or whatever, I'm not dissing him, you know, on any level.
Um, he contributed a lot.
Yeah.
You know, um, people want, you know, imagine if someone asked you to
remember 10 or 15 or 20 years ago, exactly what happened and imagine
you had three friends in the room and they put you all in separate rooms
and they ask you to remember the exact story, there's going to be differences.
Yeah, for sure.
And people's memories change.
You know?
And there's a lot of people who tried to change the story for their own good.
Later on, they weren't even a part of the original group.
So yeah.
I think we covered it all.
Yeah.
I mean, so now you have a lot of things where, you know, chem family gets
thrown around and this gets thrown around and yeah, you know, it's like
the people that are, that are most involved.
Um, you know, like my buddy from Staten Island or even IC collective or, um,
you know, uh, you know, for a long time skunk VA, but I guess he did a podcast
or two and kind of enlightened things.
The, the vocal ones were the ones that were the least involved.
Yeah.
And the quiet ones happened to be the ones that had the most to do with it.
Um, I didn't, I wasn't involved for shit except where I got them super early
and I kept helped keep them alive.
Yeah.
You know?
So, um, you know, it, uh, and everyone's version, everyone's version of events.
You can weave into the rest of the people's events.
Yeah.
And in some cases you have a situation where you just have to pick who you believe.
That's sometimes what it boils down to.
Yeah.
I mean, uh, you know, we have, we have debates all the time and,
and, and they'll be like, I can't believe you, you believe that asshole.
And I'm like, well, the asshole that you believe, I don't believe either.
You know?
As you could tell, like me and not so don't even necessarily agree on what the,
what it could be, what it's at the beginnings, there's still stuff that we
don't necessarily agree on and that we will debate like head to head all the
time because we're fucking nerds like that.
But yeah, same with CSI, same, same with any number of different friends.
People have their different ideas and you know, like I said, there's, there's
fact and there's conjecture.
You know?
Um, and I try to be clear when you venture from one to the other.
Um, you know, so, um, but I do think that getting the information out there
matters because as things legalize and things go, there's a lot of cool stories
in cannabis that'll just be lost.
Yeah.
So we're going to try to keep documenting them as best we can.
Um, hopefully this was enlightening for all of you, uh, or, or some people, you
know, I hope you, uh, I hope you enjoyed it.
And, and, and of course we, we talk all the time in the breeder syndicate
discord, you can join through there.
It's $5 a month and we all hang out, shoot the shit in there, watch fights
and talk a lot about weed history.
Um, the current political goings on in weed, be that different breeders,
different strains, what have you.
Uh, not so is in there too.
Uh, he's, he's a hard person to access on Instagram because I mean, he's probably
got a million fucking queue of waiting people to approve and he doesn't really
memorize who's who and people like to report accounts.
So it's, it's a, you know, it's, it's an easy way to catch him is in the discord.
That isn't it.
It's, it's more communicative.
Uh, I G used to be better when it was, when it was a time-based and before
shadow banning and all that type of stuff.
It's not, it's not what it used to be.
That's in terms of a communication tool, at least.
Yeah.
Um, and so, you know, and you, you know, you got kids and lives
and things and this and that.
But, um, I do think it's important to come out and like say, and have community.
Um, and a lot of, a lot of, a lot of, unfortunately, a lot of podcasts and a
lot of things are sort of like, like an infomercial about the person
or their own personal company.
Yeah.
There's not a lot going on where people just want to talk about history or people
just want to talk about various aspects that don't benefit them or
don't burnish their legend, you know?
And so I think we need some more of that just in general.
Yeah.
And to finish this off, don't forget about red seed code.com.
Speak easy, seed, bake hit them all up.
And it's true because if you don't support the real ones, then it makes it
much harder for real ones to exist.
All right.
Well, thanks for coming on not so it's always pleasure.
Maybe we can do Friday night is a good night to do this for me.
Yeah, I think we'll try to make this a regular thing.
So enjoy everyone.
Enjoy your weekend.
Peace.
