Bryn didn't like my song choice today I just want to make that clear that was
all me there we go me invite you to Kevin
It should singe then just hit yes
lay down Bryn
There we are
Alright this will work on my phone I guess
It's probably gonna be easier than my cell phone
or my laptop
Can you hear me?
Yeah I can hear you it's a little quiet
Alright let me try some uh
Give me a sec let me try some earbuds
Alright here
How's that? Is that better?
Yeah yeah it's good it's good
Just talk as loud as you can I think
Yeah okay
Alright how's that?
Perfect thank you for coming on
No worries
It's a perfect time right now you know with everything going on
with the filos the fallout from all that
I know people have a lot of questions
for uh
for other companies in the industry they're looking
for someone that they can trust
obviously that's been the issue
Okay so
I would say that in general
um don't trust
me
Trust is what has gotten us where we are
and I think you should look at people's
actions
We saw this coming many years ago
and it happens in every like genomics
industry I've been in
People start up a company
they offer a very low cost test to entice
people to submit they harvest that data
it turns into surveillance capitalism and then
they run off and make a database
All of that is fine
I think if you're forward with that
and if that's the stated intent
and I don't think anyone on this thread
is arguing that no one has a right
to breed everyone has a right to grow this plant
Absolutely they have a right to go and breed
I think it is the concern
on the table is did you have
uh you know a notorious intent did you deceive
people in the process of doing this
I think that's probably where most of the uproar is
So how
will we not deceive people? Well don't trust
us look at our actions is what I'd say
Since 2016
when we saw this coming we realized
alright we gotta build an antidote
and the best antidotes
to this are to enable
point of grow testing so people don't have
to hand over their DNA so we've been building
those tools for the last few years
If folks aren't familiar with
them they're on our website
We have a variety of people that actually run them as a service
We don't run that service here
because we're not comfortable
shipping stuff across state lines
The farm bill has
maybe changed that a little bit we're still trying to get ahead
around that but we do accept
stem samples
that can go in the mail if they're
non-viable that's the ruling
from hemp industry associations
versus the DA you can't have viable stuff
so you have to isopropanol treat them
I think Phyllis is doing the same thing and I don't
know whether their stuff is viable or not
I don't think that's the real issue at hand
it's that they have your genomic DNA and they can
do a lot with that
The leaf smears, our lawyers wouldn't let
us put those in the mail because they claim people could
tissue culture them and I've never
I've done cell culture I've not done
cannabis tissue culture so I don't know if that's
true or not we just weren't allowed to do it
So I
don't, I think that's a very thin chance
unless people have given them tissue and seeds
that they're actually doing that I think the real
I think it's a bit of a red herring when they say
we can resurrect
or Jurassic Park your strain
from DNA that's partially true
what they can do is they can take
your genomic DNA amplify
certain regions of it and transform it into
other plants and that's not hard
in fact we saw
that happen with Jay Kiesling he actually amplified
out all the cannabinoid pathway
and put it into yeast
and he did this pretty quickly when you consider
how long a lot of the other companies
have been trying to get THC expressing
in yeast, the Kiesling lab came up by
took everyone by storm and did this very quickly
John Page
did this too, he got cannabichromine
into yeast and showed them
the most recent Lafey paper so
the cannabinoid genes are very small
they're very easy to clone and they're very portable
so it's possible they can
scan through all the genomic DNA that they've
got and say alright these strains make
THCV, these ones make that, we should clone
a couple of these genes into other plants and see what happens
so the genomic DNA I think is the real
crux, they have that and to the extent
that they're turning and using that against
the manner in which they sold people
to submit it in
you know that goes against
that doesn't help that they have that really broad data
release policy because that probably gives them an out
to do that
but it's certainly
it's certainly a challengeable I think
because it was done under false
pretense, there's even
some posts we've seen
where they've claimed that
they
use, when people press them on what are your methods
they say oh we use the same methods in the Human
Genome Project, well that's blatantly false
and I can attest to that in the court of law that those
aren't the methods they used and you can
tell that by what they submitted in the NCBI
the sequencers they used didn't even exist
back in 1999 so
that's a clear stretch
and so there's false advertising going
on and I think that's where
a lot of the attention should, I think
should be placed. The other thing we did
outside of trying to decentralize the testing
so people could do it at the grow, the
sequencers aren't quite point of grow yet
they may be in like two or three years
with these nanopores but they're still a little noisy
and hard to use so if people
are still submitting samples in
we think you shouldn't trust us
you should assume one day we're going to
get either pushed out of business
you know step onto the wrong
law, federal law and get in trouble
or that we're
or let's say the worst case scenario, Monsanto
comes and buys us, what are we going to do then?
So what we've tried to do
is make sure the record of the time
stamps of your material
are not in our control and not in anyone's
control whoever owns our business and the
way we do that is we take your sequence
and create a hash of it
it's not the whole sequence it's just a hash
this is a
what's known as a unidirectional hash function
so your sequence file turns into
gibberish but it always turns into
that gibberish, that fingerprint
when you run a program called SHA-256
it makes a cryptographic hash out of your
data, whenever you present that algorithm
with your DNA file it will make that same
hash. You can't go from the hash
back to the sequence though, that's impossible
so we put that
hash in a blockchain transaction
so that it's globally distributed on a
public ledger with a time stamp on it that
no one in the world can change. So if we
disappear and you still have your DNA file
you can prove that
my sample existed at this particular
time and we put that in
place from day one on Canopedia back
in probably 2014
or so, long before we saw this risk happening
we just knew that was the right thing to do
so those are
two things that we're trying to do is
we're actively building
business components that enable
point of grow testing as opposed to
trying to hoard those
assays for ourself to run them for breeding
and those actions I think speak
for themselves. You can see
Seth Crawford has a CBG line
out there now because he used
some portable tools. He used orange photonics
to look for CBG in our
UPCR assay. So
to the extent that we're ever going to
harvest information out of a database
our intent is to turn that into
a test the growers can buy and use themselves
not that we would keep that
private and use it as some advantage
to breed. We've never bred before
we're not, it's not our
comfort zone. We've always built, if you look at our history
we've always built genetic assay tools
that's our sweet spot, that's where we
want to stay and we actually think that's a very attractive
market that if we can build tools
that all the breeders can use
there's plenty of
upside to go around. Oh sure
yeah, that's massive
in itself
Yeah, so I mean I hope that's
compelling. I can tell you in a
test the fact that every
assay we've built to date we have all
privately funded, but that doesn't mean
we wouldn't find something. I can't predict the future
maybe we find some marker in the data that's in
Canopedia and that turns into a test people can
buy, but it won't turn into
a proprietary advantage for
us to go and compete with our customers
that's not our model in fact
I think that's a very dangerous model
when you look at businesses, whenever you
polarize your investors against your customers
your end net result is a lawsuit
and so it's not
a healthy practice to do. You've got to find
a synergy between your investors and your
customers to make this work and if you
can't do that, I
think you're in for a world of hurt
Yeah, I think the main
issue with Phylos that
some people don't quite understand what's going on
and they just hear
they assume that they're stealing genetics
and I don't know if they think they're going
into people's grows, like pocketing
shit and that's not what's going on
I've not heard any of that and
I can't support any speculation
Our lawyers have told us
you can only stick to facts or you'll get libelous claims
and I can only talk about
the facts that
a few people have provided. We didn't even
chime into this until it was three days late
because we felt it wasn't our place to
and then once we saw there's enough evidence
that others presented
we can confirm it, but
it wasn't our place to snowball this
Yeah, for sure, and I think
they did that themselves by first
going to breeders like me and saying
we're never ever going to breed
we do not have a tissue culture lab
we will never participate in this
and then they went and did that
and then came back and called me a liar
which at that point I was like, wait a minute
now you're lying
Yeah, yeah, yeah, reputations, everything
So, does anyone have that in writing?
That's the
They delivered it all verbally
over the phone, stuff like that
I don't know anybody that has it in writing
and that was what was dangerous
Well,
it's hard to know what's real now
we've seen a lot of double talk
so it's very hard to
look through what they've said and what they've presented
to know what is true and what's not true
I do know some things that they're putting on paper
aren't real and that's a different concern
but the information
they're putting forward to investors
is not 100% true
I mean, they've gone out, the videos
at least, suggested that they have
some exclusive right to Illumina tools
and I know Illumina really well
they tried to purchase one of our companies in 2008
and I know the CEO, Jay Flatley
really well, he's since retired
but those people are all
in the same circle that I've been in
since 1996 and
I rang them up and said, hey, what is this?
This is the first exclusive license I've ever
seen you do and that
it's a running joke in the genomics field that
I got an exclusive from Illumina because you can't
these guys have been near a monopoly in the space
they never give out exclusives
I rang them up, did you guys give one out in cannabis?
I'm curious and they said no
send us all the information, it's going straight to legal
we're going to put an end to that
so if he's out there presenting stuff to investors
that he has an exclusive, he needs to
clarify that because
it's probably true he has his own
chip, like a 50,000 case snipper
that they designed, it's their
snips, but there's like 40 million
to choose from in the genome and you can easily
make a different one, change one snip and it's a new
chip and Illumina doesn't police that
and they can't, their position is
we'll make anybody a chip and they've offered to make us
one as well, we're looking at
it but the economies of it don't look as
good as sequencing to us right now so we're sticking
with a sequencing approach but
that's something that I think is a little
bit
maybe he didn't have the time to fully explore
that or explain that with, you know, on the stage
and investors where there aren't people being
able to probe him about the details of the exclusive
but that's not completely true
and then there's others on there
that are listed as collaborators
of theirs and various of their
scientific presentations
that we know very well and we've
rung them up saying is this your, are you
really in bed with these guys and the answer has been
no, please send it to us and
we're going to send it to legal and straighten this out, we don't
want to be misrepresented in the cannabis industry so
there's things on paper
that aren't real and what they're saying
I can't discern because they seem to be
giving a completely different story to customers
than they are to investors and that
leaves us somewhat, okay
what's true, what isn't true? It becomes
very speculative.
Well let's get you some questions, I know
there's 177 people
in here right now, I don't know if you can see that.
That's crazy man, that's great.
So first question
from Strainly, says
Kevin, what prevents MG, medicinal
genomics, from selling the data you would
have acquired through the tests
from your customers? It would be very complicated
to demonstrate if you did.
That's
probably true, we haven't sold any database
licenses today, we have
had various synthetic biology companies
come and ask us if there's anything valuable
in the data and unfortunately our
answer has been we put most of it
public, so it's the Jamaican lion
genome we put public in 60 days
and then a lot of the Canopedia
stuff you'll see we put public immediately
and blockchain hash it, so
it's hard to sell something when a lot of it's online
what you're seeing
with Phylos is very different
though, they claimed they were
going to be putting this stuff public to
give you guys prior art protections but they were
actually hoarding it for two years at a time
so they did have the capacity
to go and sell it to other people because it
hadn't been necessarily revealed
so
we've not entered into those arrangements
I can't say that that would never happen
in the future, but what we do have
are two different layers of data
release policies right now and we're
probably going to add a third after this whole mess
just to add a category where
people can put data into our database
and it can never be used for other
analyses. Right now there's a public
option where your data goes public and the whole world
can use it. I'd point
you actually to, there's been seven papers
published off of Canopedia data that
were not authors on, that people just scraped the data
and re-analyzed it and published a paper
on it. Sleet Prime News did a few of these
I think
I'll have to
list them afterwards, I can't recall them
offhand, but people are grabbing
that data and publishing
work on it. There's probably people grabbing it and not
publishing work on it and keeping it to themselves.
There's a class of customers
that want to keep it all private. The only
challenge we have in the
privacy event is that we do need to
compare it to everybody else's data in order
to deliver the product. So if they want to know
if the sample is
related to anything else in the database,
well it's hard to have that data not
compare it to everything else and
still deliver the relationships.
We're now realizing
we need one more tier where fine,
you can do that, you can compare it to everything else
and tell us the relationships, but we don't want you
to then go and sell it to somebody else.
We want that to remain private. So we need another
tier after what we've seen here.
I can say
that probably
this is a rough guess, but probably 70%
of the data is already public and only
probably 30% of the people opt to keep it
private and they usually convert it
to public once they talk to more people
and get more legal opinions on what they should do.
So
it's a rare case where people are
keeping everything entirely private.
I think
one of the biggest flaws I saw from the beginning
of Phylos was that they were
crowdsourcing data
for their legacy strains, what they call
their legacy strains, meaning like
let's say for example, Chem 91,
the original Chem 91 strain,
the more people that submit it,
the more likely it is to be the original strain
when in fact in cannabis, that's not
how shit works. Usually the less people
have the original. Do you
use the same method?
We've been reluctant to police
the oral history, so
all we do is present your relationships
and you do see clusters of like blue dreams
that are all next to each other and other ones that aren't
and people just make their assumptions
as what they are. We have been
reluctant to enable people to edit
the names that they send in and that's a big
debate in the company whether we should
and if we do do that, how do we record
that history because
what can happen in a scenario
like this is if you allow people
to edit the name after they see where
it lines up to everything in the galaxy,
you tend to get a bias towards
samples that seeded the galaxy or seeded
Canopedia. People
start to see that, oh look, I thought
it was OG but I'm not in the OG cluster. I must have
mixed something up but it's blue dream. Let me
name that one in the galaxy so I don't look like an oddball
in the galaxy. That creates
I think a real mess, particularly
if the data that
is deriving
these relationships is questionable,
this becomes a chaos
generator in the nomenclature system of cannabis
and I do think it's questionable.
We've downloaded their data
and when we try to run their data
through tools,
it throws a lot of it out. In fact, it throws
all of it out. Now, you can force it through
because we know why it
throws it out. So, this gets
in the weeds a little bit but the best
tools for doing sequencing QC come out of the
Broad Institute in Cambridge.
Broad Institute MIT has this
program, it's open source, it's called
GATK, Genome Analysis
Toolkit, and you take sequencing
data and you run it through here and it screens
it from the crap that creates
bad calls. And one
thing it does not like to see are
single PCR amplicons
covering a variant because
a single PCR amplification event
could get the maternal allele
or the paternal allele and miss one or the other.
And so, it wants to see
at least two different molecules calling
a variant. That way it knows you
surveyed both alleles,
the maternal and the paternal line. If you only
have one, you don't know whether you surveyed both.
So, it has a program in there called
Picard that rips anything out
that has only a single amplicon and the entire
phyllos assay design has got a single
amplicon covering allele.
Now, the Broad wrote this
because they sequence human genomes, lots
of human genomes, other things, but humans have been
mainly their focus. And
human genomes, this problem is
tenfold less problematic.
We have a variant, human to human, one every
thousand letters. And cannabis is one
every 94 letters. So, when there's that many
variants in the genome
and you're trying to design PCR primers
to amplify one of the variants,
what often happens is you put these primers
on top of other variants you don't know
about and therefore you artificially
amplify what your
reference was, what you thought you were going to sequence
from, let's say, they probably designed it off of
cantonic because they have a nice cantonic reference.
So,
in their design, they may have designed these
primers so that they fall on these variants,
they amplify only the mother line and not the father line
and they get a skewed tree. Now,
you present the community with these skewed trees
without any peer review on the methods,
you start calling it certifications and you enable
people to edit the actual names of
the strains and you have a shit show in your hands.
Oh yeah. And so, I
don't believe anything that comes out of that system because
the methods behind it have never made it through
peer review and I don't think they will because
there's many papers that have been published
warning against doing this exact thing.
That you really cannot do
single amplicon variants and
you really shouldn't do it in polymorphic genomes
because you're going to get all types of reference bias
when you do this.
So, I think that's the reason why their methods aren't
peer reviewed. All the other parties who
have arguably been working off of less
funding than they have, have gotten papers out.
You've seen Nolan Cain publish one, we
submitted some data to that paper, Steve
Hill put data in there, Mary Jean put data
in there. You've
seen Philippe Henry put some things out,
you've seen Anandia publishes all the time on their
methods. Almost every other genetic
provider out there has their methods published.
Soiler's another one.
And so, you can review
whether or not there's any artifacts going on
in the data.
So, this leads me to what
I'm most concerned about is that
why do they hold the data back
for
so long? Were they that understaffed that they
couldn't put the data public? I don't think so.
It is hard to put data
in NCBI. It can take a whole day to
have a bioinformatics person get
burnt up putting that data into NCBI.
But it doesn't take two years.
And what else?
What other data do they have?
They were talking about a 50K
SNP array from Illumina quite
publicly. Well, their assay
only sequenced a couple thousand SNPs,
1 to 2,000. So, how did
they design the 50K SNP array
if they were only surveying 2,000 SNPs
in everyone's samples they sent in?
Where did they design the other 48,000 from?
Well, they probably had to sequence
more territory in everyone's sample to
intelligently design that chip
or the chip is unintelligently
designed and it's
perhaps not a very good breeding tool.
One of those two things is true.
So, it does
lead you to question, how much
have they been putting public and how much
have they been keeping private and what type
of advantage does it necessarily give them in a breeding program?
Those are open questions I don't think anyone
has the answer to.
Those are actually really good questions to ask.
Here's another one for you.
Kevin, will the data... Okay, this is a great
broad question,
but it's very applicable.
Will this data hurt or help cannabis
in the long term, in your opinion?
The whole... Not necessarily
phylosis, what they're doing, but
overall, the breeding
using these tools
in general?
I think the tools will help. I do think we need
a chapter out of
the crypto space here of
decentralizing. Putting all
of the data in one hotline
punnypot database where,
let's be frank, the security policy there
is not very good. I don't know
if people have seen the threads, but
it was burping out admin password
throughout the year. We got it, and we're
their competitor. We're the last people that should get their admin
password, but it ended up on our screen
one day. That means
you have a collection of everyone's
data where the customers don't
get to see the data for two years, but the people who got
that admin password probably did.
That's the worst possible
scenario for getting
a prior art, is you held it from the people
who paid you for it, and yet you were sloppy
with the keys and let other people get in.
That is not a prior art
system.
I didn't
quite recognize that password
until I went back and looked at that after all this
went down. I'm like, wait a minute. Let me look at
that email. Oh my god.
For those who don't know, the password
that it burped out, I don't know if it's a real password or not.
This was many years ago, and
I never put this stuff public because
it's bad policy to put someone
passwords public. It's been
two years, and I gave it to Mowgli
privately. I'm assuming he
went and changed all those things the next day
when he realized his competitor had it.
He didn't. I'm sorry,
but that's a bad policy for you not to change it
after I tell you what it
is. In that
list, the password was autoflower
allele. I think someone else in the thread,
it may have been some grown
mids pointed out that the username
was forge, like forgery.
Those are
bad names.
Not great names.
When they say we weren't looking for anything
in your data,
Helen Keller
would have been a better name, not autoflower
allele.
That was pretty
revealing.
Again, that's speculative.
I don't want to get involved in too much speculation,
but I don't think
I need to speculate because the videos that
were put out pretty much
show the Jekyll and Hyde of this.
There's the investor side of the story,
which this data is extraordinarily valuable.
We're going to rule the world. Then there's the customer
side saying the data is all garbage. Don't worry about
it. You can't square
that circle very easily. I think that video
is basically
the nail in the coffin.
That's the one thing I've been saying this whole
time. People come to me
for dirt on Phylos or
whatever because I've been researching
them for a long time and have had it out
with them several times. The fact of the
matter is I don't even have to say anything
from my opinion. I just show
what they say. That's it. That's
where I've left it. I think that's been damaging
enough.
Unfortunately, it would have been nice to
have everything on the up and up from the beginning.
That would have been ideal, but it's not
necessarily the case. I like
what you're saying about decentralization. Obviously,
that's the goal for
having a company that's successful.
There's maybe
two things to consider.
I've seen a lot
of growers that are early on
and they don't want to buy all their own
sequencers yet. They're either outsourced
to us or other people. Some will even go
to their local universities because
it's unlikely a university is going
to turn around and breed on you.
They'll get to universities. We're trying to build tools
that some of the universities could run.
That way, we're not necessarily the
data hoarding risk that people may consider.
We understand after this went
down, no one's going to trust anybody to sequence
their stuff. We hope we can convince you
these blockchains work, but half the time when we tell
people about blockchains, their eyes glaze over and
say, I don't get it. Go away.
We understand that's not going to satisfy everybody.
We're going to start building
tools that may assist universities
to be able to sequence for you because, frankly,
they're going to have a big learning curve.
If you went to one today and said, here's my
DNA, they're going to stumble on
whether they can take it in or not, on whether it violates
their federal grants. Once they get past
that hurdle, they're going to
be stumbling on the fact they've never sequenced this genome before
and it's very hard to sequence. We have a lot of that
worked out into kits where they could run these
kits onto their sequencers and
get data that's very similar to other data
that's been made before.
Then they could compare it
to cannabidia data.
The biggest challenge we've had in PT
testing and cannabis genomics is that
for the first few years of this, every
service provider was sequencing a different part
of the genome. It's really difficult to cross
compare everyone's data because you're not sequencing
the same bases.
About two years ago, we
changed that and we downloaded
the phyllos data, we downloaded the cane
data and the soiler data, and then we built
a panel that covers at least 50
SNPs in all of those things so that we could try
to triangulate.
If you sequence on our panel, you can figure
out what it's closest to in all the other data sets.
We need more of that.
We're looking into
ways to enable a lot of the other universities
to pick this up. That way, it's somewhat
decentralized. If you don't like the university
in your state, maybe you send it to another one
and then it doesn't become this surveillance
capitalism approach.
In most other markets, sequencing is
very commoditized. There isn't
this window for someone to do this
because you can't shop around for sequencing
providers and therefore they don't get to
collect large hoards of your data. You can send
one strain to one place and one to another
and one to another.
This means the aggregation
of that data doesn't fall into
one person's hands who can be co-opted to sell
it to a party you're not thrilled with.
That does lead me
to a couple points people should be aware of.
The sequencing test
that people have been running at Phylos is the
most expensive sequencing per base
I think of any test in the world.
You're only getting 300,000 letters out
of this for about $285.
To put that in perspective,
and you might get 2,000 SNPs, one to 2,000
SNPs. The 23andMe test you get
for like $99, they're serving one
to like 5 million SNPs.
This is
a complete ride when
it comes to sequencing costs.
Even the tests that we run
are sequencing
more than 10 times the territory
of the Phylos test for nearly the same price.
There's
a very heavy price that's
being paid to give them your data.
Yeah, and you're
giving them data to potentially
be sold is what it looks like.
The data they're putting public I don't
think is very valuable. It's really the fact that they have
the genomic DNA. They've got
presentations out that are public now
that demonstrate them
cherry picking
99 samples out of the galaxy.
They have this structure thing that
tells you whether it's like Barry or
I can't remember all the names.
They categorize things into six buckets.
Those buckets are somewhat fictitious
based on what you tell the program to look for.
You give it a value as to how many populations
you think are there.
It's like a consultant that tells you what time it is.
I think there's six populations. It gives you a pretty picture
with six populations.
Anyway, they use that data to cherry pick
99 samples they're going to do whole genome
sequencing on.
When they say they're not using the galaxy
to do the breeding program, I think
that project right there begins to blur that line.
You're using the galaxy
to figure out what to sequence to really
extreme depth to start
your breeding program.
That to me looks as
if it is utilizing the data for
the breeding program. That's been
publicly presented. They also have publicly presented
that they're looking for the BTBD allele,
the CBD allele,
which is already out there. Seth Crawford's already
bought it and used our kit. We have a
marker that tracks that. We didn't
turn that into a breeding operation.
We turned that into a kit that anyone could buy
and any breeder could use.
He's done it successfully. I wouldn't know
how to do it successfully because I don't know how to breed.
He's managed to know
if I can track which samples
do not have any CBD alleles
and I start with type 3 plants
and they're all CBD
negative, that means they're probably
type 4 or type 5. They're one of those
two. He was able to figure that out
with orange photonics that it was in fact a type
4 and
move on with it.
Nevertheless, they're
picking samples. I don't know where they got
the samples. That's a question I can't answer. They
have them listed in some of these presentations.
They may have sourced them from dispensaries.
I don't know.
They're clearly hunting for markers for their breeding
program and it looks as if it's being guided
by their historical data.
Here's a good one
and I know you briefly touched on it
and you can choose to answer it or not because it is
kind of a personal
opinion question. It's
referring to what Bodhi asked the other night about
chimera.
Some data on chimera
because I know a lot of us, like I grew up
that was
chimera,
Watson and Clark were the
end all be all when it came to breeding
and slowly over the years you learn things
and you realize they may not be
who I hope they would be.
I have to say the first
three people that contacted me after
we put Chemdog public in
2011 were those three people
in that exact order.
I met
Robert Clark and Dave Watson
who were nice enough to host me over
there in Amsterdam and show
me around. We never
came to any agreement on
I think they wanted to do something like Phyllis back then
but we weren't funded and that was early.
The laws in the United States weren't really favorable
at that time so we kind of put MGC on ice
for a little bit while we waited for the Cole memo to get
more clarity on it.
I spent a lot of time
with Ryan Lee at a lot of the ICRS meetings
and I've had a great time with him in person.
I think I'm an asshole online.
I think that's what it comes down to.
I just pissed him off online
and he's black based.
He is one of the people
that convinced me
to back off on Phyllis.
In fact he got me to apologize to them
at an Emerald Cup a couple years ago for calling
them out on this. In 2016
there's a lot of news
on our Facebook site and arguably
back then it was not as
we didn't have the videos you have now.
We had information
from people. I had the history
of seeing genomic companies
get built. This is what always happens so it was naturally
suspicious. And then I saw
that they weren't putting any data public but telling everybody
that they were saving them from Ensanto by putting
a star on the galaxy. A star on the galaxy doesn't give you
any prior art. The USPTO can't do shit
with that. If you look
at the patents they issue they talk about
the BTBD allele which is a genotype
and they talk about chemotypes. Those are the
two languages the USPTO
uses to evaluate strains
right now. It might change, it might get broader in the
future but the precedence that's been
set with the Biotech LLC patent is that you
need a genotype and a chemotype
for us to understand what it is you have.
There's some lawyers
that may have better information on this than me. Reggie might
be a good person or Dale Hunt might be a good person to talk
to on this because they're more versed in
some of what's allowable there.
We made a noise
and we probably weren't polite about it.
A bunch of people
yelled at us about it
and convinced us to shut up.
You're being a bad community member here.
You don't have enough hard data
on this and you're being paranoid.
Over time
after we
apologized, I should say I apologized
about this, I saw the behavior
didn't change. They put out
845 samples a couple
years ago and another two years went
by and nothing else showed up. I was like
I thought we came to agreement that if
you're going to be open about this, you
had to be open and not use
the cover of the OCP to act
like you're open when you're not.
That's what
triggered us to get back involved. When we saw all this go
down, we're like, oh God, we're complicit
in this because we were barking about it a few
years ago and then we backed off and
now look what's happened.
I don't know what to say.
I haven't been in this space long enough
to really weigh in on those
three individuals and where
they live in the cannabis space.
I know Ryan's had some
fingerprints on the biotech LLC
stuff and so he's generally been
totally supportive of patents.
I'm not anti-patent either.
I generally think they're evil
but I think they exist.
Because they exist, if you put your head
in the sand over the rules of that game, you're
going to get screwed.
That's totally true.
You got to learn it and you got to play the game
at least offensively.
If you have enough money, you might be able to
afford the offensive tracks. A lot of companies
many years ago were so new
in the space, they couldn't afford the offensive tracks.
The offensive tracks can also be 20 to 30
grand a patent. You can probably get
the provisionals chucked in for a couple grand
but a year later or 18 months later,
you're going to be held to make a decision on
whether you're going to go full boat on this thing and
those are going to cost you more like 20 grand.
Defensive IP seemed to be
the cheap way to start
and that's what we tried to enable
with Canopedia was get things on blockchains,
get things public so you at least don't get
submarine by somebody else. You can at least say
my shit existed here and it's
not some bullshit site that might
disappear. There's actually,
we've got something on an immutable ledger that seems
to have a financial reason to exist for a long period of time
and the site's not going to go down
and my prior art's not going to disappear.
I think that's the biggest issue the USPTO
has in the cannabis space is
the sites go down
because there's all this censorship on the internet
over cannabis sites and so you can put your stuff
online and find it get wiped out by Facebook
or something else and then you no longer have your
prior art. So we need
these tools that are immutable
to survive all the censorship
that's going on.
And that's a great answer about
Canadamere. I think it was very
informative
and it's just based
on your opinion and your brief interaction.
He's a smart guy. He knows
this stuff. I've learned a lot from him.
I've learned a ton from him so
not disparaging there but everyone gets
different interests and sometimes these
conflicts make us go different ways.
Absolutely. Here we
go. If plants aren't patentable then
who has the prior art?
So
plants are patentable
unfortunately. I'm not saying
this as a supporter of what's going on.
In fact if anyone wants to watch
a very good review
on IP I'd encourage people
to look at Steven Kinsella's work
on this. He's a patent attorney who hates IP
and so he's got a very refreshing perspective.
He also is very
legit about it in that look they exist and if you
don't play by these rules you're
exposed. So you can
be as anti-patent as you want but if you put your
head in the sand you're probably going to lose.
You have to respect the fact that the law
is there. So there's a lot of
ways you can patent. In fact the
best way I think that may have
just emerged yesterday is
the USDA just opened up its
doors to take in cannabis seeds
and that is
that might be the best protection
I think growers can get right now
because I don't think phyllos
has stabilized seeds. I've just
got to say they just turn into breeding
and to breed if they get cultivars
in from other people that agree to license them
to them they then need to probably cross
them and change them a little bit so that they're unique.
That'll take a couple cycles and then you've got to back cross
those so that they're stable. And what
the USDA does is I think they want like 3,000
seeds. It's a lot of seeds. They check them
for whether they are in fact
stable. Pop a few and see if they're
really extreme in phenotype and if they are they don't
consider it a viable
PVP. So there is
Plant Variety Protection Act.
That's one. There are plant patents
which are their own class of patents but those
patents are for asexually
reproduced material, clones.
And then there
are utility patents which are the broadest
patents which are the patents that we saw Biotic
LLC get.
Those can be
very expensive to unravel. Once the patent
is issued you need to do an ex
parte re-exam which can be a couple hundred grand
to try and invalidate a patent.
That creates a different
financial dynamic.
Now we've put some data public
that may challenge it and may not.
I'm not a lawyer on that but the Jamaican Lion
project we did, we did that.
One, we needed a type 2 plant to sequence.
Two, we tried to find something that predated the patent
and build the best
forensics back to that date. This particular
strain won a Cannabis Cup in San Francisco
in 2011 and has
been known to be a type 2 plant that
sometimes is
beta-caropheline dominant, sometimes
mercine dominant. That's one area
I think at the USPTO
I know Reggie is trying to help educate
them and others need to educate them is that this
concept of using
terpenes as a fingerprint
for a strain is really dangerous because
it's not really a fingerprint, it's an environmental
signature.
That means
you could have the same plant and put it
somewhere else and get a different terpene profile or you can have a
completely different plant that's genetically distinct,
has a different cannabinoid profile but still
gives you, you can tweak it to pop mercine
or pop beta-caro depending on how you
grow it. I don't like those
as, I think those are very
broad and very dangerous because
when you get something that says I
own all type 2 plants that don't have
mercine as a dominant terpene,
you suddenly own way, way, way
too much property.
It's not
clear to me. I know Mark does great
breeding and great work and I don't doubt that that guy can breed
good stuff. It's more that
the scope of claims,
there's a
ratchet effect. They always get bigger, they never get
smaller. A good lawyer is going
to take that patent and try and broaden it even
more and broaden it even more.
We've seen it get pushed back
in Canada. There's a
collection up there of probably
LPs. I don't really know who's behind it but there's a group
of people up there funding an
opposition to the patent up there and they managed to narrow
the claims going into Canada.
The claim on that patent is
enforced in Canada right now and
it's more narrow than it is
here in the United States.
Alright, here's another question.
Also, just so
people know, as far
as being stable
phenotypically in cannabis, that is
a rare thing. IBL is very hard to
apply to in cannabis.
There are very few strains that have less than
three phenotypes, if any.
Yeah.
I'm not surprised when I look at the variation
in the genome.
It's a quite diverse plant.
It's hard to find other species that can be...
It's almost... It's not quite
there but it's pretty close. One snip every
94 bases is almost like having
chimpanzees and humans being able to cross
and still have productive off-string. It means
that you get a spectrum of phenotypes
in any one plant you have.
It's rare. The most homozygous
plants we've seen
came from Franco.
Those were land races.
Oh, and land races?
There may be some controversy about that. We didn't
source them but I think he got them out of the Congo
and there's some biopiracy concerns there that
I'm not really
attuned to.
He shipped us a few from there and those
things are the most homozygous things we've seen.
Maybe those will be stable
and give you seeds that are all
neoclonal. I think until we get
apomyxes worked out,
we're going to be dealing with that.
I think that's coming. At some point,
someone's going to figure out how to make double haploids
out of this and the whole thing's going to go seed.
Here's one.
Regarding defensive IP, do you believe
open source breeding is practical,
affordable, and common standard for small breeders?
It depends on what's affordable.
You might hear,
Dale Hunt may have a different opinion on this because
you can file provisionals very cheaply and maybe
that's the right thing to do.
You can decide after the term of the
provisional's up to say, screw it, I'm going to go open
source. I can't afford to go any further.
It really
comes down to whether the USPTO
is going to be effective
at their job looking through the prior art.
That's my concern. Having been
involved in the patent system a long time and
people can call me hypocrites.
I have a lot of patents in my name from all the stuff
that I've done and my experience
using the patent office is one that makes
me very
disgruntled about it because
the USPTO doesn't have a financial incentive
to do the preliminary search
report correctly.
They make just as much money on the re-exams.
They don't really
care if they issue a broad patent. The market's
going to sue over it later and then they'll get
more revenue when the re-exam happens.
The incentives there aren't
right for them to do very
thorough preliminary search reports.
You really have to
put it, if you're going to go
and put it open, you've got to make sure it's open
and obvious and in their face and they can't miss it.
Publish the data
in multiple places so that it's found
and that you have a mechanism for
whatever's indexing the
internet to find it.
Google has to be able to see. If you're putting this stuff
up on the IPFS,
Google doesn't crawl that and will never
find it. Great place to
store some data but it's not going to be found by the
USPTO. Gotcha.
That's really fascinating.
I didn't even know that.
What else do we got?
Can I ask you
what's your experience with cannabis as far
as personal? Is this something you've
been interested in prior to
the genetic aspect?
I got interested in
cannabis in 7th grade.
Long, long time ago and then I took a
big hiatus from it when I got
my first job. It was a human
genome project. I was
afraid I was going to get tested and get chucked off of that.
I was
probably away for it until
2010
or so a bunch of friends
of ours were getting cancer in their mid 30s
and 40s.
Everyone was like, what the hell is this?
We were building DNA sequencers at the time that could
sequence the tumor and sequence the patient, figure
out what drugable mutation
they actually had in the tumor.
The problem is they
then would turn to a set of tool boxes
like cisplatin and all this
poison. You'd have this wonderful
targeted approach of nailing the tumor in Achilles
heel but the selection of drugs you had all sucked.
That's when people started
forwarding me cannabinoid papers saying
what about these? These are safe. These are non-toxic.
That's when I really dove back into it again.
Then every time I think we started
getting cold feet about that business model
someone in our family would get sick that would benefit
from it. It would re-enrage us
into doing more.
My father's one. My father's had type
he's had stage 4 cancer for
4 years now he's been fighting.
It's a prostate cancer
that went to the bones. It went everywhere.
The only thing that's dealt with his
pain has been type 2 plants.
Very similar to actually what was patented.
That's one thing that got me
into the Jamaican Lion Project.
This is helping
cancer patients really close to me. I'm not
tolerating this. Someone
owns this. This is something that needs to be public.
Fortunately, DASH
funded that and they
funded it in a way where it went public
more or less 2 or 3 days after the
assembly was done. We didn't even have a chance to
look at it. We QC'd it, put it public
and we've since been combing through the data to figure
out what we can learn.
I think that's the right model.
We need to float all boats right now.
Having this cartelized
everyone having their own private
cannabis genome, that's fine.
If we really want to accelerate
the field, we need good references
out there that everyone can utilize, even our competitors.
I'm certain Phylus has
probably used the Jamaican Lion thing for making
their 50K chips. The timing
of that would have been perfect for them. That's fine.
We've
seen others publish off of it already.
Some groups done
a cannabis proteome off of
the Jamaican Lion reference we put forward.
That's in bioRxiv right now. It's a really
interesting read.
My history
has been on and off, but
we've seen CBD help
tremendously in arrhythmias as
well. We have a lot of
aphid in the family. This
actually affected my brother. There's
actually an ICRS presentation I
gave on this. His actual case
was really fascinating because we
sequenced the genomes of everyone in the family and figured
out he has two different calcium channel mutations.
One for my mother, one for my father. He's
got debilitating aphid. The only
thing that nails it is CBD.
Aphid's big.
There's like six million people in the country with aphid.
I don't think it works on all aphid. He's got a very
... Those variants aren't known to any other
database but him. They're very rare
variants. One's in the RYR2
gene.
My sister's an electrocardiologist. She was
afraid to basically ablate it. She's like,
I can't map this arrhythmia.
I don't want to burn it. You're going to have to
do something else.
CBD came to the rescue for him.
There's been this consistent
theme in our family where
this plant keeps pulling us back.
Wow. I wish you were in my family because
we've had some cancer things go on and
no one was able to have anything.
The craziest thing about
my father's story is
his ... I didn't
recognize this or put two and two together
on this until we were
flying him back into a hospice care
scenario.
All the nurses are constantly asking
what's his birthday? I kept telling them,
well, it's October 1st, 1937.
I'm like,
I know that date. What the hell is that date from?
That's the date they made
cannabis legal. Oh, wow.
He was born on that day.
It was like, I don't know.
It's weird cosmic shit like that that makes you
go, all right, I think I have to keep doing
this. Absolutely.
I think that's awesome that you actually
have a personal connection with it.
That's lacking. It's
seriously lacking in any kind of corporate world
or testing world.
This is what motivated us to do CanMed.
We run that conference
every year.
We have CME credits there because our
interest was we need more doctors.
When we initially got in this field,
it was hard to find a doctor that would
certify him.
We're in Massachusetts and we're way behind.
He lives in New Hampshire.
Live free and die is what I call it now.
It's one of these states
where their cannabis regs are
way behind everybody else. He had to have
two doctors sign off and he had to know them for
three to six months or something like that in New Hampshire
to be certified as a doctor of cannabis
in New Hampshire.
We're like, that's crazy.
We figured out something where a Maine
certificate would work in New Hampshire.
It's a big runaround for someone who's got
stage four cancer to be like, oh, you got to wait.
Yeah, exactly.
No, I'm not going to wait.
The CanMed helps get
more doctors certified
and also we try to get everyone
to present down there.
It's all science-based. We invite Mark there.
Even though we don't agree with his patents,
we believe he does great science.
We welcome him in to present
what he's doing. I'd welcome
Ryan Lee too if he has work to present.
It's all about if you present good work,
we try to keep the politics and the business conflicts
out of it.
We're running out of time, but
that went really fast.
Honestly, I thank you. You came
at a really odd
time in the business where all this
just happened and snowballed and it took some
big nuts to come and just
take questions firing them at you.
We all appreciate it.
I want to thank everyone online that's chipped in
on this because it is hard.
These folks do a lot of money and they could get
litigious over
calling this stuff out.
It's stronger when everyone can share
data and see what the truth really
is. It's really hard if you're just one voice
and you don't
want to bank your entire reputation
on it unless you see other people seeing.
They can corroborate the data and it looks like
other people did that. They really did their
homework on this and figured out what was going on
to a much higher degree than we did.
That's very helpful.
I appreciate you. We're probably going to put
this on YouTube if that's okay.
It's got a permanent home
so people can see this.
Thank you so much. If you
have time in the future, I'd love to have you back on.
I know this is a lot of data to
throw at people. I know people are going to be watching this,
re-watching this and have more questions later.
Get the discussion going.
I'm still really intrigued on where this goes, whether it
goes open or closed.
What's this all going to turn
into? I don't think we have clear answers, but
we're a tool provider. I don't think we
necessarily need them. We just need to be transparent
and make sure people understand
what we do with people's data.
I think that's the most important thing
is transparency. That's all people ask, really.
Be straightforward and honest.
It's not that hard.
It's amazing, actually.
It's much harder to actually be a liar
because it's too hard. You'll trip up on yourself.
Yeah, exactly.
Truth makes it really easy. You don't have to remember anything.
Exactly.
Thank you so much, brother. I hope you have a wonderful night.
Cheers. Thank you. Take care.
All right, guys. I'm sorry if I didn't
get to everyone's questions. I'm going to have them back on
if they'll come back on.
There was a lot of data there.
There's a lot of heavy science. A lot of stuff
I'm even trying to process right now.
It was hard science.
I'm going to have to go research a bunch of this stuff.
It does take a lot of nuts
to come on here
and be face-to-face with someone like me
that's going to not
pull any punches, per se.
I appreciate him doing that.
Go research. Go research everything
that he said. Go look it up.
If you find something incorrect, let me know.
We'll bring it to him.
I think the fact that he's made himself so available,
that's a big step.
It's hard to trust people
that are cannabis outsiders.
It looks like at least
it appears that his heart is in the right place.
That's important.
Anyway, I think
someone recorded this.
I hope someone
recorded this. If you did,
I think Flavnel is going to record this.
Send me the link when you get it up.
I'll put it up on the YouTube
as well. On the YouTubes.
Yep.
That's it. Cheers!
