Welcome to Breeder's Syndicate, where we explore the history of a clandestine seed through
the eyes of the folks who live here.
I'm Matthew, owner of Riot Seeds.
I'll occasionally be joined by my co-host, Notsojaw, breeder and grower from Mendocino.
Welcome to the Underground.
You got any new news? Anything good you can share with the public?
Share with the public? Not quite yet.
Not quite yet.
I am going on a... we'll have to see about next week because I'm going on that adventure.
I'm going to try to find some long lost cutting.
Oh, that one. You're going on the adventure.
I'm going on the adventure, I think, next week.
One of our buddies is going to be super happy about that.
Yeah, I might even be able to get lunch with him or something.
That'd be cool.
It would be neat.
I hope you get it, dude. I hope it works out.
So, we are going to chat today about a pretty wide topic,
but people have been asking a lot about it,
which is sort of like the whole like hash plant topic, right?
Because it's meant different things at different times.
And there's a lot of old famous hash plants.
And there's a lot of breeding that got bred into those.
And then there's a lot of new modern ones.
Yeah, new modern plants for hash.
Yeah, I mean, not only... and by modern, I mean like even like,
you know, there was a whole new round of named cuts that got, you know,
hash plant labels or different things.
And now hash plant actually means, you know, something totally different.
Sure does.
You know, so yeah, we're going to kind of talk widely about hash plants.
So, if you ever have any hash plant questions or anything along those lines,
today's a great day to shoot them and see what's up.
I got all the catalogs ready.
I've got illustrations ready of said hash plants, most of them.
And I even went back and... because there was one hash plant I thought of
that nobody ever really mentions anymore.
But for a while in the like the 08, 09 era, it was pretty popular.
And that was the cuttlefish.
So, I even dug up info on the old cuttlefish hash plant.
The old cuttlefish.
So, yeah, we're going to go over as many as we can remember.
As many as we can.
So, yeah, we're going to talk about the history of hash plant.
We're going to talk about a bunch of specific cuts.
People can ask away about specific cuts they're interested in.
Like Matt just said, he's got a list.
But like maybe the term hash plant, you know, just to start, right,
is kind of a weird term because all Afghans back then
pretty much bred and grown for hash.
Yes.
But then some strains got called hash plant and some strains got called
other names.
And do we know that was Neville the first one to name a strain
or did it come over that way with that name and then he used the name?
I mean, I don't know.
You know, the only thing that we know about like the G13 and the P&W hash
plant is that Neville says he bought them in Oregon through friends of
Jorge Cervantes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And Jorge confirmed that, you know.
Yeah.
But we don't know the origin stories.
So, I assume he just called it what he got it.
It was a hash plant.
Yeah.
I assume so, too.
I don't know where the name evolved.
It would be nice to ask Jorge, but I don't know if he would know.
But it's weird because it's like essentially like hash plant started off
as basically being any Afghan.
Yes.
Because they were all, that's what, you know, marijuana was grown for.
Yeah.
Was to make hash.
And so people started bringing over all these Afghans or hash plants or
whatever, all these various different things over to America.
And, you know, we talked about this a bunch, but crossing them with a bunch
of different sativas.
Yeah.
Right?
Yep.
Is kind of, that's kind of the beginning of it.
Right?
Yes.
So, here's, this is, I could probably jump the gun on showing this one.
Go ahead.
I mean, it's not terribly jumping the gun.
So what happened is, is that a bunch of people started bringing over these
Afghans because they wanted to add bigger, chunkier buds to their sativas.
And they wanted their sativas to finish earlier.
Right?
Yeah.
So, Afghanistan is a super different climate than over here.
So most of these hash plants or Afghans that they brought over,
they just rotted.
Yeah.
They just, they just read in terrible rock.
So the vast majority of the seeds that people brought over ended up being not
that useful.
Yeah.
Like people would go and get their sativas seeds from before they bred that
indica into it.
Mm-hmm.
Right?
And so early on, early on, the big hunt for hash plants or the big hunt for
Afghans was ones that didn't rot.
Yeah.
And that's kind of why I think some of these cuttings became so popular.
Like, you know, because most, you know,
most of the breeding that got done just got done with specific moms.
Yeah.
Because once you found one that did that, you traded it.
Right?
Yeah.
That's how they did over there.
That's how they did it.
So, so there's an aspect where it's like Neville went and, you know,
Neville even said that like, cause Matt held up his, his catalog or whatever.
All that hunting that Neville did in Afghanistan, he said, regrettably,
like those,
those Afghans weren't as nice as some of the clone only as he got sent over
from America.
Yeah.
Whether that was big bud or the Pacific Northwest hash plant or the G 13 or,
you know, some of the cuttings that he got.
And so these cuttings that did well, you know, the NL five,
all these different things start getting passed around.
Yeah.
Cause they work.
Right.
And so Neville probably would met with matches held up.
Neville probably made it really famous.
This is a hash plant pure by he crossed the hash plant to like the G 13 and
the N and the NL one.
And he,
and then he took a G 13 NL one and he back crossed it to the hash plant
again.
And that's what Matt was showing that ugly squat thing.
Hash plant pure.
Yeah.
This is the hash plant pure, which I mean, you know,
You know, there is debate on whether the PNW hash plant that exists today is
this, but looking at this and granted, you know,
different growing environments, everything else.
I would be hard pressed to say this looks anything like the cut indoors
grown here of the PNW.
It doesn't look like it sure does look puckish.
I wouldn't say it looks like the,
the hash plant cut that gets passed around either,
but boy, does it look like some ugly puck?
It sure does.
It's bud formation and all that type of stuff.
And so what's weird, maybe I should say this before we move on.
What's weird about what we did, right.
Is someone just asked.
So Afghan is hash plant.
Now the Afghan people grew Afghans to make into hashish.
Yes.
You know, they, that they made hash.
They still make hash.
They don't smoke flower.
So they never called it hash plants.
Right.
Like it was, it was just a term that got put onto Afghans.
And then people think it may admit meant something specific,
but all Afghan and Pakistani stuff,
that's what they did with their plants.
Yeah.
You make hash, you know?
And so, you know,
and so there's an aspect where we brought all these plants over to
America.
Okay.
And started fucking with them,
whether they're Steve Murphy's Afghan that started the NL thing or the,
you know, or the, the,
the Pacific Northwest hash plan or the big bud story or whatever.
We weren't using them for hash plants.
No,
we weren't growing fields like they were and doing anything that they were
doing.
Yeah.
Right.
So what we did, we were looking for them to blend well with our sativas.
Yeah.
Right now that's a trip, right.
Because that means that right when they got to America,
a completely different set of selection pressures got put into play.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, they were, they were selecting for breeding.
They came over here.
They they'd been selected to work well in the Afghanistan environment to
make, to make those people hash.
And we brought it over here and tried to blend it with our favorite weed
to get good weed to smoke.
Right.
And to, and to finish early indoors.
Sure.
Yeah.
But I mean, all these different, like they weren't trying to, they weren't,
there was no indoor.
I mean, we used Afghans for indoor when they came over.
Yeah.
But no, they, from Afghanistan or Pakistan or that region,
they were always growing outside.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
They weren't blowing up houses in a, no, they didn't.
They didn't, they came from a cold dry environment.
So they weren't worried about the mold.
I'm just saying that like all of the farmers looking for, for, you know,
you know, genetics, you know,
various aspects that benefit an Afghanistan farmer was much different than a
Washington, Oregon, California, indoor or outdoor grower,
trying to fuck with some Mexicans and some Columbians and some Panamanians and
some tie and blend this Afghan into that and get what they want.
We had a way different set of selection pressure and we didn't really make
hash for a long time, except for, for private.
Yeah.
Right.
Yep.
So, you know, but we liked, they were short, they were squat.
They were, they had a bunch of crystal, you know,
and were visual creatures too.
So frosty looking nugs work better for Americans, you know?
And so what were the, what were the famous,
what are the famous earliest hash plans?
So the early ones, I mean, as far as the earliest, we're going to go,
you know, like I mean the PNW, there weren't a lot of early,
early hash plants, but some of the ones early in the scene would be like,
you know, there was the seed bank hash plant, which would be their hash plant,
pure, which would be different from, you know, the G 13 or the,
the hash plant and a one, which was using the G 13 hash plant.
And a one, we have the puck of course, AKA Skelly.
We have the cuttlefish hash plant, BC hash plant.
There was also a champagne hash plant,
which I'm not sure if is different from the BC hash plant.
Maybe some of the Canadian folks will know we have hash plant 13.
Yeah. And some of these,
some of these aren't even necessarily from the hash plant family of strains
that came from Neville, you know,
some of these were just called hash plant because of whatever reason.
It became a bit, hash plant is a bit like cush
in that it's a general term that applies to a wide variety of things.
Yeah.
You know, and why one thing was all labeled cush.
And another thing was labeled hash plant when the cush was destined to be made
into hash.
Yeah. It's just one of those language things that happened.
Yeah. And there, there is, there is some confusion.
I guess we can go into individual ones in a little bit.
So if you want to continue, I don't want to jump it.
No, I mean, so that's basically like,
and then it became famous because in the eighties as,
as he just showed a Neville started calling things hash plant.
And there was famous hash plant hybrids, you know,
and mostly Americans used it because it was a short squat,
decent yielding frosty plant inside. Yeah. We weren't, you know,
nobody was really making hash in America. We smoke flour mostly. Yeah.
Oh, good. See champagne was different from the BC. Very interesting.
Good to know. And it's actually interesting. Maybe if you,
you were going to jump around, but I'm going to really jump around to like today.
So when, when we first brought over all these hash plants,
they were brought over and they had been bred to be excellent hash plants.
Yeah. Right. And people like people in Europe and in the know and you know,
Sammy and stuff have told me that they feel like a lot of modern cultivars
like are really shitty hash plants. Yeah.
That a lot of the traditional ones that were bred for that specifically and
bred for resin are much better plants for that. Yeah.
Because they were never bred for anything else. Yeah.
And now with the legalization and all that,
and the hash revolution that's happened with all these various elements and
dabs and everything, we're actually like looking,
people talk about dumpers, right?
They talk about hash yield a lot in various ways and methods.
And so figuring out what plants are good hash plants is like back in vogue.
Yeah. Kind of for the first time ever. Yeah.
Like on a, on any kind of like commercial scale,
people have been making hash here privately to share with their friends forever.
Yeah. But as far as like a, like a major thing, it's probably,
it's pretty recent last 20 years probably. Yeah. Easily.
And now with testing and people can be like, Oh,
this thing washes 6% or this thing washes this people start hunting for hash
plant yields. Yeah. And, and what is a good washer? What, what keeps its flavor?
But we went 40 years without those pressures being applied.
This is, this is a good input from archive. He said,
dumpers are mainly just plants with higher than average THC to TURP ratio.
Yeah. That's good. Yeah. So, you know,
so there's an aspect where it's like for a long time from what most people is
hash plants came over here and got mixed with other weed, you know,
for breeding purposes, you know,
because like if you look at the puck or you look at that picture, you know,
some of those things were short squat, ugly, you know,
they weren't the most attractive things always. Yeah. Even, even chem 91,
you know, aside from hash plants,
chem 91 is another Afghani not necessarily known for its beautiful qualities.
Same kind of way. Yeah. Same kind of way. Yeah. So,
but they started becoming famous because he put them in the first catalog.
Yeah. And so there was hash plants and then, you know,
like he was saying the Skelly,
there's some that survived from back then that became got really well known.
Yeah. But they're not related. No, not, not a lot.
Just see someone's asking me to show the hash plant pure again.
So I'm going to show that again. There we go.
So the hash plant pure Neville took the hash plant clone only he got from Oregon
and he crossed it to a male and L one.
And then he took a male of that hybrid and crossed it back to the,
to the hash plant. And that was his hash plant pure. Yeah.
And that's honestly kind of like what he did with a number of things.
Like when he offered his Hawaiian Indica there's a number of things where he
crossed it once to NL one and then crossed the,
a male of that hybrid back to itself and just released that as a pure line.
Yeah. That was actually a reasonably common tactic.
Yeah. It does appear that Neville got the hash plant and the G 13 on the same
trip at the same time from the same people.
How would you have liked to have been able to grab a pack of that?
Yeah. Afghan mix. Neville sold,
Neville sold seeds that Jim Ortega had given him. Yeah.
He got so many that he,
he offered up the same seeds that he found all of the maple leaf stuff.
And he sold for a couple of years as just 50 pack, 50 pack breeder packs.
And 150 bucks. Yeah. Yeah.
Unreal. Neville was cool in that sense.
And that he pretty much just told you what he was crossing.
There was no real secrecy behind it, you know? But he was also first,
so he didn't have to hide anything. Yeah. That helps.
But yeah, you know, the, these hash plants,
some of these hash plants have gotten famous.
It's very likely that the scout,
the puck is a direct descendant of that picture, Matt, you know,
that's the rumor at least that it's seeds from then. And then
our buddy Bodie has a pretty famous number of lines out that him and other
people have used. Matt got some of those from NDN guy,
the G13 hash plant, which was another. 1988.
The 88 G13. Yeah. I mean, that's, that's kind of how they,
how they type it or whatever, but it's basically supposed to be from the first
year that Neville released the G13 hash plant hybrid. Yeah. Yeah.
Right. Yeah. I mean, I, I,
who knows what, what they were really from or what year or which seed bank or
any of that, but that was the story given with them.
1988 since he seeds hash plant was or G13 hash plant, which was what they said.
So whatever it is, I mean, it's it, it, that exists.
And so a lot of people have that and people have puck hybrids and some people
still have the puck clone, you know?
And so there's some old hash plants that exist, but you can kind of like,
and then there was kind of like another wave where people started,
kept using the nickname, but it was all grown for flour. Yeah.
In my opinion, nobody was really making,
nobody was really using it the way they used it in Afghanistan. No, not,
not in the U S no, not in the U S. So, but yeah, there was,
there was something puck is the hash plant, you know,
or they think it is, that's what it's called.
I mean, it looks like traditional hash plant and the hash plant strain like in
that picture. It does have a lot of those similar traits.
It does have a lot of similar traits, you know?
And it's out there in the community and stuff like that. People breed with it.
So, you know, at the very least it ties back to something old. Yeah.
But that's most basically what they were doing is, is in America,
we were looking for like hash plants and Afghans that we could cross to other
things and would bring the flowering time and the height and had some crystal
and some density. But, but keep,
but keep a lot of the other qualities from the sativa. Yeah.
Those were sort of the first blends that people were after. Was it?
They wanted structurally what the hash plant did. Yeah.
And the flavors of the sativa and the high, but the flavor and the smoke and the
stretch, you know? Yeah. So, you know, it,
it's one of those,
it's one of those aspects where we put a bunch of different selection pressures
on it, but kept the name. Yeah.
Let's see what we got here.
So one of the ones often mentioned is the cuttlefish, you know,
like not often mentioned, I should say. But in the,
in the like late two thousands,
it was used a lot by sub pools crew and best I could tell.
I remember talking to Jill about, about it came from bad boy,
whoever that was one of their buddies.
And it was actually a super skunk cross to skunk skunk one.
And it was like a fruity, they say skunky fruity. I'm not sure on all that,
but yeah, that was what the cuttlefish hash plant was.
It wasn't even a cincy hash plant or seed bank hash plant.
It was a super skunk skunk one.
So we,
we had a bunch of people that were just asking about the G 13.
So we could focus on that for a minute. Hey,
Fletch you want to come on and talk to you 13 you're from that area.
So like I said before,
one part of the story is that Neville said on one of his American trips,
he bought the G 13 and the hash plant clone from somebody.
There he is. What's up. Hey, what's up guys.
How you doing buddy. Good to see you, dude. Good to see you. Yep.
What's going on.
Just hash plant. Hash plant.
The old Northwest favorites. I mean,
I think something that people forget is that the Northwest specifically like
Washington state is where HID lighting company came from.
It's where some of the first hydroponics companies came from that like the
early eighties, this was the spot to grow weed because
the climate is really good for having heat inside your house.
Generally all year. Everybody's always like, Oh,
the humidity is so high up there. Well, if you know anything about,
you know, relative humidity air, that's 45 degrees and 80% humidity.
And you bring that into like a 75 degree grow room and hit it with all that
heat from all your equipment makes a perfect climate 40 bed humidity.
So you always hear people, Oh, there's mold or powdery mildew.
I mean, I know tons of growers from up here and powdery mildew never existed in
anyone's garden until clones started coming up from specifically from Ed
Rosenthal's operation in the early, late nineties, early two thousands with
the other lady's name that was running it. But they would like, I mean,
they spread that shit worldwide.
That's what you want to be known for.
You know, centralized clone selling is really what's,
has spread most problems everywhere. Absolutely.
The dudding that, you know, the, the viroids, the powdery mildews,
bugs, all these various different types of things.
When people were just getting clones from their buddy or a small group of
friends, it kept most problems localized. Yeah.
And it's when people start stopped maintaining their own mothers and we'll
just like, Oh, I'll fucking buy 200 cuts for my next run.
And started getting them from dispensaries and getting them from these
centralized places. That's kind of when all these issues
started spreading like crazy was because they'd get into a,
a poorly run at Rosenthal's situation or they'd get into a dark heart or
whatever. And then they would just sell to thousands of people.
Exactly. Well, let's talk to G13.
So what, you know, so he probably knows, but I will,
I will say one more thing and then I'll shut up is that, you know,
Neville says that he got it on this trip and Jorge confirmed it when we
interviewed, Bjornson, right.
That was like the one tidbit that we got was he's remember,
he said that the G13 was actually called
the UW. Yeah.
The UW. That's what his statement was.
That was like literally in an hour and a half of, of talking.
That was the one piece of weed history that he casually mentioned that like
was, was any, but you know, it seems like it was one of those,
like, like Fletch was saying,
it was one of those things where they were collecting different clones that
worked good indoors and trading them. Yeah. Right.
Even up here, people are,
people are still buying stuff from the same place.
Right.
Even up here people were really reserved about sharing any kind of clones.
That was true, you know,
probably up until medical changed in like 2008 with Obama's whatever that,
that announcement was where everybody basically started growing weed because it
said the feds weren't going to fuck with you anymore. If you're, yeah.
Yeah. Pause. So before that, getting clones was hard. I mean,
people, you know, everybody just, if you had weed,
you never told anybody where it came from. So even if it was from your garden,
I mean, there was plenty of people you buy weed from.
You never knew they grew weed. Yeah, for sure. They,
they just said their uncle got it or whoever. Yeah. And so,
but the, the G so what, what were we talking about? G13 or what?
G13. Let's do G13, UW, stuff like that.
So you dub and well, G13, as far as I know, there's two,
there's historically only two clones. Yeah. Airborne,
which is from Ohio and then there's Pacific,
which is from out here like West Seattle. Yeah.
The Pacific was named Pacific because of the user Pacific on cannabis world.
Yeah. She, he, I can't remember. She,
she was like in some band or, and I can't, she was some kind of, you know,
modern shit of some sort back then. But
she had two different clones.
I think that's how she liked to be referred to and was the UW purple or I
think, didn't she call it UW purple Matt? Yeah. UW black or purple.
I don't know. People call it UW black now.
He said shit that people made up out of nowhere. Yeah.
The, the UW purple I think was,
and I think she would sometimes call it purple G13 up here.
But the, like having been around here for a long time,
I never saw the, the UW purple or purple that she had is the same as the purple
Indica Tacoma perp.
Family of plants that's well known up here in Washington,
which is like how me and Caleb ended up becoming friends 20 years ago.
It's because he had the Oracle. I had the PI from up here.
We knew those were families of plants that were localized to our areas.
And we were trying to figure out, Hey, are these things related?
Are they similar?
And me personally having now worked with the purple Indica a lot and knowing
its history up here, I mean, it wasn't even called purple Indica.
When I got it up here, it was just an unknown clone that I received.
And I was just able to identify it as a plant from that family of purples.
Yeah. Yeah.
Caleb and I,
we got this other clone that we call the Tacoma perp that came from a user
Stoney puff and stuff on this world.
And that was a different clone, but the same family of plants.
I also had pot bag seeds in like 2003.
Yeah.
From those bags of that same weed plants.
They were all almost identical to, you know,
you could have passed any of them off as at any of the purple weed that comes
around up here.
Yeah.
And that was kind of, that's kind of the same with Oracle, you know,
it's like, you've got Oracle.
Sure.
Great bait, all that shit.
71, whatever.
71, whatever.
And then you've got the, the, the, the, the,
Yeah.
Yeah.
20 different versions of the same,
essentially genotype of expression.
Yeah.
So type phenotype within a population or whatever.
Yeah.
So,
and it's hard to say whether the chicken or the egg came first.
Right.
Yeah.
Did the Oracle come first or did a GDP?
Which one came from which one?
And unless you have let's get the history of it, it's pretty out.
So the GDP,
the GDP is the GDP of the plant.
I've seen is probably most definitely related to the lemon.
AKA lemon G 13.
That was all as it was also called.
Okay.
Both carry this trait.
And it's also a,
I think it's a virus that transfers from.
It proceed from parents.
So it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a,
it's a virus that transfers from.
It proceed from parents.
Right.
I don't have the actual data to support exactly that.
But for example, the lemon peel that I have.
Yeah.
Frost with that has a.
Or virus.
We have tested for that.
Right.
It's had it.
Okay.
I mean, like after the second run from clone.
It had it.
And it's not a virus.
It's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a,
it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a,
it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a,
it's a, it's a virus.
And it.
Had it.
And I've never.
I doesn't transfer to any other strains at all.
Except for lemon.
Weird.
So show.
That is really weird.
And so does the lemon g itself.
What kind of viruses is it? Do you know?
Virus.
What is it? I'm sorry.
Raspberry door.
that. So, anyways, my point is simply that there can even be, you know, stuff like that
that can show you potentially a genetic relation. Yeah, for sure. But I mean, we've never sold
pure lemon peel hybrids, you know, for the yeah, yeah. That's wild. I think I think the
airborne is the one that Pip showed us, not so the one that he was keeping his G13 that
he called Ohio G13. And I think he had a similar theory that it was related to the lemon.
Well, he had the lemon. I mean, he he rocked the lemon. Like he monocropped it in that
region for years to he was really familiar with it. And I will say that, you know, one
thing about the Pacific that makes me think that it's probably old is that it is really
ugly. You know, it's not a pretty plant, in my opinion, which one? The Pacific, you
know, like, you know, like, or Pips, like, like, I mean, that's kind of like one of its
things, right? Where's like the G13 was like, when when Neville would chat about it, like,
you know, he said it was, it was kind of ugly, but it had crazy. You know, it added it added
a bunch of potency and a bunch of crystal. Yeah. But by itself, it wasn't all that good.
So when I did all those high times events and everything, you know, every once in a
while, you'd have someone come through that you and they were always old timers, you know,
like, yeah, these are more and they would just come through and just tell you some information
about a strain that you potentially have on your menu or have hybrids of. And this older
lady Kate had come to my booth. I think it was either at Emerald Cup or one of the other
high times events. And she told me, do you know what the lemon G13 is? And I said, well,
I first had gotten it from Shroomy back in like 2005 or so. So I knew it was old. I knew
it was from Ohio because he was in Pittsburgh. So it was from right across the border there.
And the lemon G was like, you know, it it's a very distinct plant. You can't miss it for
anything else. It's smell how it grows. It's kind of like just a really big plant with
big buds, but kind of not the most resonant thing. Anyways, she said that it was the G13,
right? That's from out there with a skunk misty from sensei seeds that hermit onto it.
And that's what that story. Yeah. And it makes perfect sense to me. If you look at the plants,
if you've ever grown, it does have skunk number one type growth characteristics.
That's where those long running colas came from. Exactly.
Number one from Amsterdam. If you've grown the airborne G13, that weird,
but sour, bitter smell, right? Yeah. That's from the airborne G. And so it's like you can smell it
between the airborne and it's, it's pretty obvious. And then, so like I was saying,
between all those factors, plus the dwarf virus, that's all that's self-contained to
that specific family of plants. It's pretty identifiable. Yeah. I can't say for certain
whether or not it's all a hundred percent the same family. So that kind of covers the,
the airborne G13, right? Most likely a clone from Ohio. I don't know any other history other
than that. And most likely the parent to lemon G as well. Yeah. Cool. That's what I know as
well about it. I want to survive in Ohio. This is a little off topic, but since we
touched it a little bit, what do you think on the purple Indica versus circle? I've grown enough.
Oh, that's what I was going to say earlier. I've grown enough PI hybrids that I've gotten
Urkel phenotypes from purple Indica hybrids. Wow. So it wouldn't surprise me in the least,
especially considering how widespread that purple Indica clone or that family of clones was. I would
bet money if you, if you showed that purple Indica to Greg that he would immediately be able to
identify it. Just like every other guy I know that's been up in Seattle and northern Oregon
for the last 30 years growing weed. Almost every single one of them, you can pull it out,
immediately identifiable by them. I've never tried. I should. I'll see what he says.
Yeah. What I'd like to do is go out there and bring him a bunch of samples and see if he can
identify anything. You guys are close. I mean, you guys are kind of close out there. Yeah. I mean,
relative. No. But you know what I'm saying though, is that like, who knows what kind of smells he
could potentially identify as just being related to something. Just like I was talking about the
Lemon G and the G13. Yeah. And then the Pacific G13, I never saw anything but a couple samples
of it and it never was very impressive. Yeah. The UW purple, that purple family that we were just
talking about, purple indica, those are definitely not related to the Pacific G13. And then UW was
just a name for any weed that came out of the University of Washington area of Seattle, which
was like kind of where you would go buy weed off the streets. You know, kind of like in Park and
New York kind of deal. Yeah. Like go down to the U district and you could buy weed off the streets.
And then you had, you know, between that, the glass blowers, which was a giant part that is
often overlooked. I lost over as if it wasn't an important part of it, but the glass blowing scene
was a large part of and of the distribution network of clones around the country back then.
Very much so. You know, when I first got the Trinity and the, and the snow and, you know,
a bunch of those things that was all out of Eugene glass blowing circles. Exactly. You know,
it was all, that was, that was one of the ways that hippies spread and communicated and, and
they were, they were blowing pipes and they, they had ends. Exactly. The dog shit, same channels.
I'm trying to think of other strains that were glass scene. The super bill. I mean, there's a,
there's a handful of strains up here that, that maybe haven't gotten any airtime, but the cough
was super. Oh yeah. Through the, through the glass blowing scene. I mean, the cough was like a,
Oh, somebody just said the Quimby. That's another one. I heard of it. The Quimby is just another
from Oregon. It's just another like old school. It was one of those strains passed around those
same circles. The green, that was one too. You know, they, they even had their own four way,
which wasn't like a four way from, was like a four way from Oregon, but they just called it
the same thing, but it wasn't anything related to Neville's or anything from Europe. It was like
Trinity by something, by something. I can't remember for sure, but that was, that's my
knowledge of G 13. You know, it's, it's somewhat anecdotal, but I've seen a lot of samples,
you know, over the years. So hold on a sec. People are saying, we're not just hearing facts.
We're hearing conjecture about G 13. The reason for that is because the G 13 is from the eighties,
which is a long fucking time ago. And the memories are old and some of them are legends.
What we, what we think we know for sure is that it came out of the Pacific Northwest.
Okay. And that's when it first popped up and friends of Jorge Cervantes gave it to Neville,
who took it to Europe and bred with it. And then it's, huh?
I can add to it. And the name supposedly came from the license plate as best as I've dug up.
And yeah, license plates, license. And then, and so it became, and it became traded. So then it
was bred in the Europe and then it was traded in the Pacific Northwest. Then it kind of became
this legendary thing for the most part. And so some of it is conjecture because you have all
these things called G 13, but what's their origin. I mean, one thing I'd like to mention is that
when I first started growing G 13 was not a really well-known subject. The only thing was some
internet folklore about it. And the fact that it was in the catalog back in the day, that was the
only knowledge about it. And no one really gave a shit at all about it until that movie, American,
whatever came out. Yeah. Yeah. Thousand dollar ounce of G 13 on the fucking American beauty
movie. And then everybody's like, what's that G 13 shit is that some shit came from the
government. It's the same thing that happened with U-Dub is like when I was buying weed,
U-Dub was just a, came from an area. It could be multiple different strains. It was like
creepy or any of those other names. It was never a single variety. And then once you had like the
medical scene around here, pop up and you had people trying to like kind of stake their claim
in the ground, but didn't weren't really in the scene prior to that. They're like, I have the
original U-Dub like, dude, there never even was like the fact that you're even trying to say you
have the only U-Dub is how I know you don't have it because, because it doesn't exist. You're
trying to stake a claim about something that was that was just a name. It wasn't specified to
anybody. Yeah. Very much like thunder fuck, you know, all those, or even, or even diesel. Yeah.
Yeah. I mean, my, my buddies who lived in New York in that era, that was, that was slaying for,
for dank weed right then. Was it that diesel you got that diesel? I mean, now it like means
something much more specific, but it started off as just slaying for good weed. Exactly. Exactly.
No Indian guy did not have anything to do with G13. People making up stuff. So while we have you
here, let's talk to another hash plant. I know we've done this before, but I don't think we've
done it on the syndicate show. HP 13. Yeah. I mean, my only experience with it is that
I went to those parties in Hawaii, um, back in the early two thousands. And that was,
that's the same, the Jason King can of Bible group of people. And that was the only place I ever saw
it. And it was well known amongst their circle that it had come from New York city or from New
York somewhere. Right. Um, it's not from Hawaii. It was brought there by,
from my understanding, a bunch of hippies. Okay. And that's, that's basically, yeah. I mean,
what'd you think about it? I always deserve the hype. No. Well, when I first saw it and it was
like jungle grown, I was like, Oh hell no. This shit. Right. Yeah. And I think I got the clone
later from, uh, from Caleb and, um, I grew it. I liked the turps on it a lot, but doesn't
transfer to flavor. Yeah. Well it itself, um, it's more one of those strains you can taste it
because it smells so strong, not because it converts to a really tasty flavor. Yeah.
And, uh, it's Hermi prone, the lower bottoms on it always through sacks. If you wouldn't have
light leaks or anything like that. And, um, it's pretty hard to breed with in my experience.
But it has one of the more unique terpene profiles out. So that's one thing Jason King
was correct about is that the, the turf profile is unique. Yeah. It's always,
it's always a bummer to me when the turf profile is so strong and direct and then it doesn't
translate into the smoke like bubblegum, like, like, like, like, like the, yeah, like the version
of bubblegum, you know, it smells sometimes the smell and the, you know, I mean, that's the same
thing true with hash too. Sometimes flavors on flour don't translate into any of the hash you
make with it. Yeah. Right. Yeah. It's not that HP 13 doesn't have a good flavor. It's just like,
it's so strong. You expect it, it promises to deliver more than it actually does because the
smell is so potent on it. Right. Yeah. Um, but what's, what, what, one thing I've found with
having run through so many seed plants over so many years is that there's this fine line between,
um, there's like three different types of textures of wheat in my main textures. There's
really turpy stuff that's low in THC and it kind of has that soft silky feel to the resin. It's not
sticky. It's not tacky and you can't wash with it at all. Right. Then you have like the other end of
the spectrum, which is like really high in THC, but whatever terpenes are in it, don't make it
slick. Right. It's just like alcohol and water. You add enough alcohol to water and it won't
freeze. Right. So if you, most terpenes and, and files and everything else in it are like
alcohol like compounds, they have low. So when you mix that with THC, you need enough THC to,
to stabilize the terpenes or vice versa. Right. So really turpy, low THC, it kind of has that
soft feel and it's sometimes the shit just doesn't translate to flavor no matter how
turpy it is. Yeah. They have this stuff that's like all THC, but no turps. And, um, and that
shit washes like crazy, but it always lacks in flavor. And then you have stuff where it's really
fucking turpy and it's really high in THC and it's that stick to the wall type shit. Yeah. And that's
almost always the best to smoke is the, that's like, that's like all of the old elites that
ended up testing between 18 and 24% THC or something. And they just had that blend of
turps and flavor and enough potency to get you there. Entourage effect, whatever you want.
It was interesting for me seeing a bunch of holding a big library. And then when testing
first started happening and you started getting to see what your weed was like,
me realizing that, like, I mean, I don't, I don't know about, I don't know about you,
Fletch. I don't really like most 30% plus strains. I kind of find them bland. Like the
ones that work best for me, like are somewhere in the, in the low to mid twenties most of the time.
I mean, I don't know. It just tastes really strong. I don't even care about the potency of
it. And at the end of the day, I mean, you know, I used to have Joe, I mean, still have hundreds of
jars available. Someone comes over and they can smoke through whatever. And that purple Indica
only tests like 15 to 18% on a good day. And for 20 years, no matter what everybody picked out of
my pile of jars to smoke, they'd always say that was the most potent strain to them, had the most
narcotic effects. So obviously THC isn't the only thing. The other thing is there's hundreds of
known cannabinoids. We only test for like 10 of them, maybe in bio assays. And we, and we've just
found like, did you guys see that Italian research paper where they found that THC that's 30 times
more potent than THC and they found it in flour? So, okay. So if you have 1% of that, that's the
equivalent of 30% THC. So if you have flour that's 20% THC and then have 100% of this secondary
cannabinoid that we currently don't test for, THCP, if that's what it is, that shit might feel
like it's 50%, right? Because you've got 30% with that extra potent stuff. It's like, you know,
it's like heroin and fentanyl. He doesn't like fentanyl.
Yeah, absolutely. And for people asking, this will be up on YouTube after we're going to try
to have it up in audio as well later on. So that's, I mean, that's kind of a tangent,
but it's basically, in my opinion, there's absolutely no way to tell like how well weed
is going to work on someone by the available testing that we commonly do today. You can get
a general sense of low or high THC and you can get some terpenes and you can learn some things
from it, but it's not comprehensive enough by any means to tell you why it works the way that it
does. Yeah. I mean, you're talking about, we're only testing for, you know, 5% or 10% of the
potential cannabinoids, most of which the other cannabinoids, we don't even know what they do
still. And then, then you're talking about, we test for a small portion of the terpenes and
thiols and everything else that produces. So it's like, we're going to start making assumptions with
10% of the data. Yeah, that's bad.
Assumptions about the plant with 10% of the data. That's pretty useless science right there.
It's almost like Phyllos creating a whole system on it, telling you could have genetic relation
about the same. And it's also quite possible that we put the most importance on THC
simply because it's the oldest compound we know of that relates to marijuana. And so we've just,
we've just all been preconditioned to accept that that's the big macro.
No, you know why we're preconditioned is because that's the compound they made illegal.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, that's the one that the government said was the most important compound.
And it's at the end of the day, it's probably not.
That's kind of what my whole point, we could, we could know 15 or 20 years from now that this
combination of cannabinoids or whatever is actually way more important to like this specific
feeling than any number on that level. Exactly.
You know, so. And now, and all these people breeding for 32% THC with no terps and still
smokes like fucking smoking gravel. And it's all because we're using a testing system to
sell stuff to consumers that isn't even in their best interest.
You know, Fletch, you said something the other day, and I know it, it, it didn't like a lot of
people found it controversial, but I thought I could relate to it very well. And you made a
comment that you are done with regular seeds and it's on defend seeds. Can you, can you like
extrapolate on that a little bit? So people understand what you were actually saying, saying.
Oh, I'm just making jokes most of the time. I know, but I mean, but it's relevant, right?
People take this shit way too seriously. But I mean, you know, the people that always have the
most to say are typically the people that are offended by it the most, right? And well, maybe
they're not so proud of what they're doing. I don't know. I just, I just related to it so much.
Trying to sell regular seeds in this market right now is very, very difficult. There's not as much
of a, I don't even know if there is a big market left for regular seeds at the moment.
No, I mean, most people aren't particularly, you know, especially with the compression and
pricing, people are not concerned with doing things the right way. They're concerned with
how they're going to pay their bills and make it to the next crop or keep the lights on at
their facility or whatever. And I mean, that's why you got people that are like,
you know, they got a thousand lights up. They don't know what to do with any of the product.
And their choices at that point are, I'm going to partner with someone that's going to run the
thing and sell it all for me. Or I'm going to start hitting up people that work at nurseries
of other businesses, tell their nursery employee, hey, I'll give you 50 grand to buy a clone from
whoever, right. And then try and undercut their market. And it's like, look, you're never going
to create a market for yourself by always just picking up the scraps of somebody else's.
That's a fact, man. It's a fact. So, you know, what's the point of picking up someone else's
scraps? It's like, you should be working on your own stuff because then you can have enough burn
rate on whatever that product is for yourself that you can take advantage of that and be proud
of what you're doing. And, you know, that shit won't offend you anymore. Yeah, that's a fact, man.
One thing I've learned too is that all these dudes that like to knock stuff off, that's what they do
for a living. It's all going to come to a screeching halt when a lot of the people that are producing
unique shit are no longer doing it. You know, once those people are removed from the equation,
then who's going to make the unique shit? No one. They're cut off. They're done, you know.
Exactly. It's like, what's the point in all just chopping each other's legs off when
we could all just be producing something only a generation or two removed, but is now
because you did your work and found something cool. Now the market's bigger instead of smaller,
right? If you guys want to survive, you better work on making the market bigger for everybody
that's in it, not smaller. Yeah. It kind of reminds me of like, just like the human nature
aspect of all this shit, you know, because there's a part of it too, where, you know,
you think about it like in music or something like that, when there's like something, you know,
people come out and they just create something and then that creates a demand for it. And then
there's a whole bunch of other musicians who follow in their footsteps because it's easier
than creating their own thing. Now there's like a heavy metal genre. There's like a gangster rap
genre. There's an era where like, it's not named. People are just doing shit.
Yeah.
Exactly. Right. And so what's happened with the named, you know, strain game basically,
is that rather than people breeding a bunch of weed that they like and trying to get more weed
that they like, they're like, oh fuck, this thing from Archive or Matt or whoever is blowing up
right now. I'm going to cross everything to Dossie Doe. I'm going to cross everything to
Skittles. I'm going to cross everything to Cushmans. I'm going to cross everything to,
because it's popular and they're trying to put their own flavor on it. But it's not like it
just happens in weed that happens anywhere where there's opportunity. And, you know, the other
thing I was thinking of when you guys were talking about the breeding aspect was that
even talking about Seeds Today, when, you know, when Neville was on Mr. Nice or whatever, he used
to talk about people would all the time bitch that they wanted all these pure Indica hybrids.
Yeah.
But if they didn't yield through the roof and they weren't amazing in every way,
they'd bitch up a storm. And so he was constantly thinking about like what he could release
and what the public would accept. So it made me think that even today, right now,
there's a difference between what the public says it wants and then where it's money talks
in terms of buying seeds. Because it says it wants a lot of stuff that it doesn't really support.
Exactly. Exactly. I think it's the price compression. Like everybody's looking for,
everyone wants something different, but they all want to sell the, have the same sales strategy.
Right. Purple frosty and want to sell a hundred pack. Right. Yeah. They're, I mean,
they're not everybody. I mean, there are companies that are phenom, they're working on,
on providing unique varieties to their business, regardless of whether or not it's a hype strain
or not. And, and they're in all markets. I mean, there's, you know, there's, there's a good amount
of those companies that are working on it now. But the problem becomes depending on how big their
business is, is the most productive varieties typically aren't the dankest. And if you're
selling to a wholesale only market and aren't vertically integrated, it's really hard to grow
a two pound variety instead of a three pound variety or whatever the difference is. And just
like fruits and vegetables, the big old monster tomatoes typically are the ones that taste like
water. Yeah, for sure. Yeah. I mean, that's, that's like one of Caleb and I's running jokes,
dude, is that the shitty little thing in the corner that you thought about killing ends up
being the clear winner in the smoke test always. And you're like, why is that retarded run over
there? Like, why is that one head and shoulders above all these beautiful producing structure,
amazing dense buds all over it. And this stressed out little thing here that almost died. That's
the one that everyone wants to smoke. I think it's a, I think the, the smoke ability of a strain
is a combination of two things. In my opinion, it's the type of, and how much resin there is
on the plant material. And then there is how the plant material smokes itself. And those are two
completely different things. Yeah. That's why people like hash is because you get rid of all
the plant material. So now the shit that like has good turps or good trichomes on it, but shitty
plant material, you can smoke it now. Strawberry banana. It's like, man, the flower is completely
nothing to write home about, but yeah. Make some fresh frozen hash with it. It's great. It's
awesome. Yeah. No banana smoothie. So there, you know, there's a purpose for that. But when you
start talking about like mass versus trichomes, if you increase the mass, but there's only the
same amount of trichomes, it's inevitably probably going to continue to taste worse.
So whatever has the least amount of mass that smokes poorly of flower material with the highest
concentration of resin, good, tasty resin is probably going to be your best week. So to me,
it's just a trichome concentration versus plant mass. That's interesting. Yeah.
I look at it a little differently because I talk about burnability all the time, right? Because
that's really important to me. But I think that there's like a, there's like an air to bud ratio,
you know, like, I mean, obviously some things you put them on the, you know, you put them on and,
and the thing is huge, but it weighs three grams. Other thing you put it on and it's the same,
it's the same size and it weighs eight, you know? So I think like how dense things are,
like one of the things I like about diesels is it kind of has all those like nooks and crannies and
hills and crevices and different things, the way the bud forms. So it's like, it's not that dense.
Right. And then I think that makes it, huh? That's what I was saying is the amount of trichomes
versus the mass of the plant material, the plant material. Yeah. And it seems like that stuff
washes better because there's more surface area where like the super thick stuff, you almost have
to chop it up into little bits to get it to wash well. Cause there's only so much exposed. Exactly.
How much pressure can you get on X amount of mass of flour?
And it's things like Bubba, right? It's like, you know, you could, Bubba doesn't have a lot
of surface area to put trichomes because it's so dense with plant material. Yeah. And why does it
test low? And why does one little nug like this turn into like a joint that's fucking that fat?
That's why, because it has a lot of plant material mass. Yeah. I mean, there was,
there was an aspect to where I used to have this, I used to have this judge of whether I thought
things were like perfect density to me. Like when I was breeding stuff, a bunch was, could I break
it off in the dark and put it into a pipe and smoke it effectively? And if, and if you can't
do that without like the snow used to be like that, like you almost needed scissors or a grinder.
You know, if you just broke off a big chunk and shoved it into a bowl or a
bong or something like that, it would barely burn. Yeah. It's too dense. Prohibition selection
standards, you know, and you know, cookies, cookies, cookies can be like that too. It can
be too dense. Yeah, for sure. You know, it breeds a certain density. What have you been focusing on
and on your projects lately? Like, is there anything you're stoked about anything you're
working with lately that you're like, fuck, this is so unique and so different that I,
you know, I'm going to work on this for a few years. Anything like that currently going on?
I mean, man, I'm just always just selecting through plants. I mean, I just popped like
another 500 seeds the other day. For me, it's, I just want to find new shit all the time. I mean,
shit half the time, all like, I just went to California and went to all these big grows
and everything and met up with everybody. Except me. Well, everybody, everybody was on schedule, but
the like, the one that I wasn't really particularly impressed with was the one that
all the biggest growers all said, Hey, can I get a clone? What's up with that one? I want to, I need
to, I need to make this one a strain or whatever. Right. And it's like, well, I didn't even think
that was that out of all the stuff I brought, that's not my personal favorite, you know? So
for me, it's like, I never really know what's fucking, I just try to grow really good weeds
and shit that I think is unique and tastes really good and has that, the right ratios, everything we
were just talking about. And man, everybody, I let everybody else decide what's really unique to
them. Because if you told me, you know, 10 years that papaya would be unique to people, I'll tell
you, you're fucking crazy. Right. That's the most run of the mill shit on the fucking planet at that
time. Right. But so only 10 years later, you know, Dutch skunk number one fruit turps is unique
because everyone grows only gelato. So, yeah. Yeah. If you would have told me skunk one would
have had a comeback, I would never in a million years have believed that. Exactly. I mean,
there was, there, there was a time, you know, in Mendo where you couldn't give a, a Calio pound away.
Yeah. And then, you know, and then the, the nails got invented and people started dabbing
and Tangy became popular, but. I couldn't believe Tangy when it, when it hit, I was like, what,
what are we redoing Calio again? What the fuck's going on here? Right. But, but we forget that,
you know, the majority of the smoking population is 18 to 28 years old. So after
most people turn 28, they get kids, family, they smoke less, they're not involved.
And that shit, whatever was old to the people that just quit smoking is brand new to the
next generation. Yeah. I mean, we, we, we had a, we had a, like a 15 year downturn for perps
and then it came back with a vengeance. Yeah, totally. With a vengeance, you know,
there, there was an era a long time ago when, when everything purple went like crazy.
And then that wasn't the case for a decade and a half or something. And then it came back
and all of a sudden, you know, I, you hear that like very 2005 statement, you know,
like, I don't know if this is purple enough. Could this be darker? You see people extending
the periods for these strains now by like adding two novel things together. So you got like
Tropicana cookies and it's like just Tangy, but it's purple, like the Blackberry. Right. And it's
like that. And then people are like excited about it again, you know, Mendo perp same thing,
you know, it's like people get tired of it when it's just the Mendo perp, but you know,
call it forbidden fruit. Now it's the hot shit. And now it's, yeah. I mean, I, it, it's crazy.
What's crazy about the forbidden fruit is that when citrus is strong,
it's like one of the most dumb, it can be, it can breed one of the most dominant turps at times.
Yeah, for sure. You know, and then, and then it's, and it's often a one or two note turk,
where it's like, you don't get other sense. It's like when it's citrus, it's just like pop,
it's citrus. Yeah. And that forbidden fruit is really weird because it smells just like,
it's like a one note purple. It's a pretty plant. You know, pretty, super pretty, super pretty. And
like, and all that. And, you know, but yeah, it's, it just, it smells like if you like orange
citrus and that's it. I think here's an important thing to, I think what we're talking about is
really a product of the, how easily information is spread nowadays, because like you were talking
about before how plant diseases were isolated to small groups of people, if at all, because people
didn't really share plants. The same thing was true with the selling part of weed 20 years ago
as well is I don't know what the fuck people were smoking in Georgia or Tennessee, right? I just know
what I can buy around me. That's it. And so I didn't have this preconception that I can get
some purple weed that smells like orange. There was not choices like that. So everybody just
basically created their own standards of quality and preference. And those were localized to even
just small groups of people. Right. And I think that's why we had so many unique strains that,
that were able to survive prohibition is because the whole market wasn't gelato or whatever,
because no one had a big enough row to do that. No one knew about a strain enough to do all that
shit. So, you know, every, so like strains like HP 13 survived because that was the best weed that
a whole group of people in the country could get. And they demanded that product. So that clone
survived and that, you know, that was one of the benefits of prohibition is that it actually did
help keep some of the diversity alive because you have these independent markets that weren't
affected from external, external input. And now we have the opposite where everyone is so influenced
by external input that almost no one keeps anything unique around anymore at all. And the
customer doesn't even know that they want it because it's not even available in the marketplace.
Oh, I mean, that's something I trip on all the time is because like California, like in,
in some degree, like, or where I live might be considered kind of like a, you know, the forefront
of certain things, good and bad. And one of the bad things was like the, the whole, like
named clone craze that took off where, you know, first it was purples and it was cushions and
sours and, you know, it just, but what that meant is that people kept dropping stuff. And we talked
earlier in the show about how that G 13 cut probably survived in Ohio because like you, you,
you grow weed in these areas where it's good enough weed that it always sells and there's
not pressure to change. So they keep these favorites wherever they are.
And Ohio, Ohio is, are they even legal yet? Or?
No, no, but I just meant like anywhere, anywhere that doesn't fade, like California pressure. I
mean, I'll tell you. So to me, the first real craze was the purple craze in Mendo. Before that
people just grew good weed and it all sold. Right. And then when the purple craze hit and it became
about the Mendo P or the Urkel or the GDP or, you know, this half a dozen different purple
strains, there would be people that would come up from the Bay and they will like, I will buy
every gram of this weed that I can find. Yeah. And so that created this pressure where all these
different growers were like, well, why do I want to grow this other shit? I'm just going to turn
this 40 lights or whatever into Urkel and boom it out because these people are going to cash me out
even for my odd pound. Of course. Yeah. And so with every time that happens, diversity gets
fucked. Yeah. And then you fast forward, right? Fast forward 15 years from then. And when the
purple craze hit, everybody starts hitting up like the six people that kept purple.
You know, like everyone I knew had an Urkel or a grape ape or, uh, or a, or GDP or a Mendo P cut.
Oh yeah. You know, there was an era after that where like every single farmer I knew
indoor and outdoor ran some sour diesel. But if it's not, if it's not what the easiest thing
to sell, then they drop it. You guys feel like we're in that stage right now,
currently with anything? We're a bunch of shits getting dropped. Yeah. I mean,
I'll tell you something crazy, dude. I had a buddy from, from Soham hit me up and say that
a bunch of brokers were starting to talk about wanting sour diesel this year.
And they couldn't, they couldn't find clones of sour diesel and Soham.
Weird. That is weird. Because it'd been three, four years and everybody's been growing gelatos
and weird hybrids of gelato and these weird purple crosses and jealousy. And you know,
and that was the only thing that people wanted to pay for. Yeah. It makes sense. You wouldn't
think sour would get pushed out, but it doesn't take that long. All it takes is a few seasons or
one season of your broker telling you, I don't want it. And you're going to find something though.
They do want, you know, or they tell you, Oh, I'll buy that, but it's going to be this. But
if you had this, I'd pay you this much more. Yeah. They're going to go that route. Yeah.
Definitely doesn't have the cookies appeal. It all, this isn't unique, but it's like,
but everyone had sour. It's just, it's a globalization of the marketplace, right? You know,
it really, it's a nationalization, but California supplying is globally at this point now. And,
so it's just like, you know, kind of when you travel the world nowadays, right? It's like,
it's a lot, it's not nearly as culturally diverse, especially in the touristy areas
than 20 years ago or in particularly 40 years ago. Not that I ever experienced that, but
it's just where we have this information is disseminated so quickly nowadays that it's,
that we're losing a lot of diversity on the planet for a lot of reasons. And
with cannabis, particularly because it was prohibited by the governments,
we have probably the very last agricultural crop that had its own free independent economy
and distribution system for a multi-billion dollar planet plant per year in value with absolutely
zero government intervention and policies that would dictate how and why people would
operate their business. And now we've moved to the whole opposite with that,
with globalization and nationalization. With one exception to that, they didn't have any control
over how we set it up except for things they did would make us adapt to not encounter them.
Yeah. So all the shipping methods, all the, the very, all the various aspects of the business
was to work around government intervention of any kind. So they didn't really, they didn't,
they didn't really dictate to us, but they did influence how we responded in a way.
But because of that, if we had a much more diverse scene, because everybody figured out a different
way to manipulate the system to their advantage, so to speak, right?
It really was Adam Smith and the invisible hand.
Sure. You guys familiar with that?
No. So Adam Smith, when he wrote about capitalism and all that, it's like a super famous thing that
he did, but he wrote about basically like real capitalism is like, there's an invisible hand
that takes the goods from where they are and pulls them to where they're wanted to be bought.
Like there's a system that will get set up if there's a demand in some place and there's margin
and profit to be made, a system will be set up by people to get that profit and to bring the goods
to where the people want to be. And that's essentially what happened with wheat. That's
how we got spread all over America when it was totally illegal was the invisible hand divvied it
up. Exactly. Okay.
You know, and then the invisible hand is just, it's just no government, no government making
any rules. I mean, it's interesting that like in California, especially they made a whole bunch
of rules and they crashed the very successful system within five years.
That's exactly what we're getting at is that like, if you let the government get involved in
anything, they will ruin it. Right. That's the general rule of thumb. They won war that we've
waged in the last 50 years in this country where we want it, whether it was a foreign war or a
domestic war, the war on drugs, shit, drugs are more available and more plentiful.
It's like, yeah, for sure. We don't win any wars, war on homelessness. We don't win anything.
I'm not sure if they're meant to be one. I really don't know.
Yeah. There's no profit in solutions. Yeah, exactly. That's what I mean. It's fucked up.
But there's no profit in collapsing an agricultural commodity that you're the one
taxing. Like the funny part is the government is so bad at their job that they're the only ones
that make money without having to spend any in this real business. You know, right. I mean,
other than other than just enforcing the rules that they that get written, but
they're taking in what a third of the income and the whole state or more in most of these cases.
And and the the biggest loser is them by collapsing the system around themselves.
Because if the if the price of weed goes to basically non-profitable and I mean,
look, I've talked about this for a long ass time. Without subsidies and or farmers unions.
Farming in America doesn't exist. You've been doom and gloom forever about it. I agree. Yes.
Yeah. We're here now. Really? No, he has. He's been talking about
very realistic and collapsing markets and what happens with industrialization and all that for
quite some time. But here's the biggest benefit, right, is because there's no union and no
subsidies to get this to survive that the consumption of weed is going to continue.
So a lot of people are just there's nothing to save these big corporations and these big
investment firms. Yeah. They in business. There's nothing to save them. Right. And
in a in the right scenario, depending on how much it ends up costing a lot of these big
businesses to operate and how the consumers perception and demands may change, small farms
might be the ones that come out winning because there isn't that as we're seeing now in California
and as the as every state gets its own supply set up and there's not this distribution network,
this demand from all over the world for export product. Yeah.
We're growing way more weed than people need to smoke. So all it takes is the consumer
demanding a little bit higher quality product and the consumption amount or the amount of players
being too many for the amount of consumption that's occurring. And the only things that may
be profitable is small businesses. You know, you guys did you guys not to interrupt. Did you guys
see that thing in Canada where they destroyed like hundreds of tons of unused weed? They burned
it because of overproduction. Yeah. And they couldn't pump it through the system and it
aged out and turned brown. And, you know, they had all these huge greenhouses and they did this
big power play. There's an aspect. It's interesting that you say that, dude, because
there is definitely a bunch of people that are trying to get into the industry by just having a
better burn rate than small farmers. What they're hoping to do is bleed everybody out,
be able to survive longer because they have more capital and then take over the bones and they end
up with a bunch of market share. Yeah. But what Homi is saying is that they could actually bleed
it out beyond where they're willing to bleed. And if the price spike doesn't happen after that,
to like be able to recover their lost, what they're trying to do is they're willing to
lose money now, but they're planning on making more later. And they just the plan is not to just
light a huge pile of money on fire and watch it burn. No, they actually exactly. But their problem
is that now that people are growing weed more easily everywhere, right, and more quantity of it,
like I mean, Oklahoma has intercepted pick six, the whole game from California in a lot of ways.
Oh, yeah. And that's going to continue to happen with every new state that comes online. It becomes
easy to grow more herb. So like, you know, companies like Trulieve in Florida. Well,
you've got companies like Jungle Boys and everybody else that can come in and take their
lunch from them from a from a business operations standpoint and quality perspective. And then you've
got the little small grower chipping away at you, too. So I mean, like the market may not sustain
their billion dollar aspirations that you may not be able to be that big. And we're seeing that in
Washington already. The biggest growers in Washington are shutting down 2000 light operations.
They're selling $200 packaged pounds wreck, right? 1000 light grows that bring in buyers from out
of state buy it from the from the licensed place that they deposit cash in the state knows about
it. And it's like the supply. It's there's so many operations to supply the demand now that
I don't think there is like a rosy outcome for them down the road.
So they might just be lighting lighting tens of millions of dollars on fire.
Well, if they can't find more money to keep sustaining their money losing operations,
it's they're done for anyways. I mean, you know, canopy grow shut down there. What did they spend
$230 million on a greenhouse in medicine hat. They sold it for 35 million recently just to
keep the lights on. I mean, like, Jesus, you know, you can't run a business like that.
Yeah, no flow Kana up by me, they raised 175 million bucks. And they they pretty much blew it.
Right. And so where's the ground going to come from when the economics looks the way it does now?
Yeah, and, you know, and there's another aspect of it, too. And you, you know, we were chatting
about this, I can't remember was last week or the week before. But, like, it is this weird thing,
because since cannabis is legal in some spots and illegal and others, right, and the and the,
and the line between the two is super murky. There's all this there's all this stuff happening,
you know, where most of the companies in California surviving by backdooring.
Absolutely. You know, that's how they're surviving. And then and then on top of that,
like, up in, you know, when the hemp when the hemp implosion happened in 2018,
up in his neck of the woods in southern Oregon, and all those areas, those places started growing
at a level never before seen. And there's all these there's all these criminal groups and cartels
that started doing things on a scale that had never been seen before,
and daring the authorities to come catch them. Right. And so there's massive amounts of weed
that are being grown. I've read in places that that, you know, Mexican, Mexican import is down
75% from from the good days for them. Right. And, and they are going into all kinds of different
businesses to make up that lost revenue. Right. And they're going to Oklahoma, and they're going
to Oregon, and they're going to the desert in California, and they're setting up these huge
depths and shops, trying to make money. So it's like a total free for all in that sense.
You know, it's like the level of overproduction is insane.
Well, yeah, everybody thinks that like, it's gonna get better. And it's like, look, for just
every person that's quitting right now, there's another person doubling up their garden,
right? Yeah, there's another glass house putting up another 5 million square feet, this isn't going
to get that much better, you have to identify your own market, and then supply that market,
whatever it is that you do, whether it's edibles, vape pens, these turp carts,
rosin, pick your pick your thing, maybe it's all of them, it doesn't really matter.
But the market can only sustain so much of that, right before you start basically eating into your
own profits with your overproduction. So like I said, as more people become operational,
more good operators come in, more good black market operators continue producing more states,
maybe it fizzles out for them, you know, who knows?
Maybe it just can't sustain the size of business that they want. Like these people spent $300
million building this big grow, because they were planning on doing a billion dollars a year in
sales, but they only got to 150 million a year in sales. They're not really doing it, right? So
I think that's going to be the reality for a lot of these big businesses. And then
if you get these really big overproduction situations like you have right now,
you're going to see people shutting lights off. But the thing is, is like as soon as the
like, all right, let's say you have a 2000 light operation, and you're going to shut it down for
the time being, because you have two of these, let's say you shut one down. And you're like,
well, we'll just wait till the price goes back up. Well, what happens when the price goes back up,
you flip the lights back on, fill it with plants. And a year later, the price is back where it was
again. Yeah, this is, you know, ag economics, you know, this is just how it goes. And so the real
question is, how much COVID cash did we spend on grows that don't need to exist? And if that's
really big, which I think it is, this overproduction will continue for quite some
time, I would think. I mean, really, it's it's two giants with a bunch of good weed growers getting
smashed in the middle, in my opinion, because it's like all the like, the two giants are like the
all the huge black market things that have set up by the various groups. And then the other giant
is all the backdoor legal weed that happens. And the reason why legal is so pissed at the black
market is because for the first two, three years, they were dumping all their excess product in the
black easy, and that was their cash flow. And now, now they're getting cut off by these ginormous
scenes, and they're pissed off about it. And it's taking their price, and it's making their life
harder. But but, you know, so they want they want all the black to be shut down. But they only want
the black to be shut down so they could resupply the black. They just lost market share.
The whiter black sales, they just want market share.
They just need market share wherever they're going to get it from.
Well, they define what's white and what's black. So I mean, they're the ones hiring the lobbyists
and are going to be hiring the lobbyists. So they don't mind what's white and black. Anyways,
you know, I worked on some on some big farms down in Southern California for a couple of years. And
one of the things that the sales guy did that was pretty trippy is he went and he looked at a bunch
of the data for all of the dispensaries. And he was pretty much like, you know, this farm that we
have down here, it could probably supply like 80 or 90% of the volume needed. And he was like,
kind of from the real world. So he was kind of tripping out by this number, because he didn't
know all the various nuances that we know. But he was just looking at it. And he was thinking about
all the other bigger farms than us, and all the indoors and all the depths and all the everything
else. And he was like, well, how is this working? The only way that the white market can survive
is if like 80% of them fail. If they actually have to sell within the state of California only
and no backdoor. Exactly. Yeah. And then the goal would be instead of like two or three huge
companies that suck, that percentage would be a bunch of bomb small growers that could actually
give consumers what they want. Well, that's what I'm getting at is that it actually shrinks back
to the size that it's that's actually sustainable for the state of California, not including the
export market. Most of these big grows are too big for that. Like they just can't get enough
revenue to sustain the business model. So they have two choices. They either just shut off a
bunch of operations and keep their 200 million a year or whatever it is they could get. Or,
and they just hope they can hold on to that from little guys that keep chopping at their
at their bottom line or at the top line. So, you know, this may go back the other direction
and people don't realize that. And I think if people focus on quality, expanding their market
instead of chopping off your fellow farmers market, the black market operators or backdoor
operators or whoever you are, you're going to continue to see growth in your space regardless.
That'd be my, that's my opinion. I could even say 20 years ago, the people that I knew that
were running 50 and 100 lighters that were really good at their job, they still bought their head
stash from four to 10 to 12 lighters. Because those that there's just something about like a
smaller space that only, you know, like you can, you can, there's like, nobody agrees where craft
ends. Right? Nobody, nobody agrees when it's like, it's just a little too big to be called craft.
But I can, but everybody agrees that the bigger it gets, the harder it becomes to manage perfect
weed. You know, a guy that like works on his four lighter after work and is in love with it and
spends a couple hours in there every night making it just exactly perfect. He probably has fire.
Well, I think as these, as this profit margin continues to shrink and then you got these big
monster grows, I think you're going to continue to find it's going to be continued to be difficult
for these big businesses to find employees that want to do that shit too. Right? I mean,
where are you getting skilled workers from in this marketplace?
And my, my buddy dude, he jokes that like, it's like a fucking factory job.
It is. And you're in there and the lights are on and the fans are running and the decibels are loud
and you honestly should have like protective glasses and some, and some, you know, and some
earmuffs and some this and some good team. It's, it's actually pretty fun because now you don't
have to man it. You don't have to be the guy like growing weed for yourself is being that guy that's
playing the, the, he's got the whole contraption on that playing like six fucking. Yeah. Yeah.
Like that. What the run in operating the whole business is that, and for some people, that's
the right way to do it. And if you want to control your product and your market and your marketplace,
that's how you do it. But these big monster grows, especially when the ownership has no
soul or passion for the plant and doesn't want to fund any kind of fun shit for their
employees to do in it. Yeah. I don't think you're going to find a lot of people that want to
continue to do that job long-term. Yeah. I mean, there's, there's an aspect to where,
and I want to say it before I forget, but when he was talking about quality, the other thing that I
would say that is actually going to lead to like the next generation of like real elites is if
people want to breed, stop breeding for the market. Cause that's going to change soon. Anyway,
start breeding weed that you personally think is fire. Exactly. Try to find weed that you and
your friends love to smoke and you love the buzz and you love things about it. Grow better weed
for yourself. The chances of that weed becoming popular is way better than you trying to create
something that you think will be popular. Grow weed you like breed weed you like.
My only business card and everybody that knows me is a box of jars. That's what I show up with.
But a box of jars, right? And then you can, because I can tell you pretty much everything
about a grower from a box of jars. Yeah, you could, you should be able to.
You know, and there, and there's an aspect to where it's, it's, I mean, we haven't even talked
about like if it went federally legal, like the international market and how that would play
into all this different stuff, you know, because in each new, in each new state that goes legal,
there's a bunch of investment money hoping to like dominate and make a bunch of money back.
And it's kind of been swinging around the country right now it's in New York and New Jersey.
Because those are huge places that are coming online and all these people are super excited
about trying to, you know, do that. You know, Washington where he, he's up, you know, Washington
and Oregon were ahead of California. And we didn't really learn any lessons. No, we just, we just
shit the bed right away. We're just like, oh, let's just make a bunch of terrible rules
right away, destined for failure. But I mean, that's, that may only make sense for California
with how we do stuff. So yeah, I mean, it's hard. I will say in all honesty, it's hard.
Because like he said, this is, it's agricultural, which has its own weird shit to it. Right.
And it's a multi, multi, multi billion dollar industry already. Yeah. So it's not like they
get to create the industry from the ground up and like tinker with it. They're trying to bring
this huge thing into the light. And they have no idea how to do it. What other thing have they
ever done that with? Yeah, that's a good point. What have they ever done? You know, that's why,
that's why some of this money is so excited. They're like, what do you mean there's
8 million pot smokers in my state already? Yeah, that's a huge customer base. Most things you make
that are brand new, you have to build popularity. Oh, yeah. Weed is super fucking popular.
Like it's already popular. So and no one controls it. So it's all tempting for the money to be like,
I want to control that. For sure. You know, and I agree rings. Yeah, I think Colorado probably was
falling out for Cali. Yeah, Oregon too. I mean, I was just like, I've been going through having
to delete all my old photos to keep my shit from getting my account deleted and everything.
Yeah. And like, man, I was I was like seeing memes I was making in like 2017 18 when everybody was
talking about the sky is falling and shit in Oregon. I mean, yeah, this is just reality for
an agricultural crop. And if you're not prepared for it, and for being flexible with how you're
going to operate your business, it's not going to be it's not gonna be a good time. You know?
Yeah. One thing I will say too, and I never really thought that I would see this, but
there's an aspect where like maybe for the first time, like being an actual weed nerd who really
loves it as an advantage, because then at least you get to love what you're doing. Where a lot
of people got into this because it was easy or because it was money or because there was a big
margin or because you know, it allowed them travel freedom or whatever. And as as it gets harder and
harder, they don't actually like doing what they're doing. So they get a lot more frustrated
as the market changes. Yeah, this is just another job. You know, it's Yeah, it's just an you know,
and they used to make a lot more for a lot less effort. And now they're making a lot less for a
lot more effort. You know where and there's a there's an aspect that I see in Mendo all the
time. You probably see it up there to an organ, you know, where it's like a bunch of people that
didn't really care about weed, but learned enough to make money and run some big shit and make good
money for 20 years. Now that it's going legal, they think they have this like lifetime of
knowledge about weed, but they really farmed most of it out, and they were in it for loo. And so
they're really not that talented at what they do. They really don't have the same knowledge base
as like people that were nerdy about weed, and kept wanting to learn about what they were into.
Yeah, of course. So there's an aspect out there where for you know, like being being like into
weed helps because it's gonna get rough. Yeah. It's gonna get rough. The combo did go sideways.
But sometimes that's what's cool about it. I mean, we could have talked about hash plants
for the last hour, I suppose, in sequential order. You know, I mean, man, who fucking cares?
Yeah, I enjoyed it. Fucking joints here. What the fuck do you guys want?
Yeah. bothering us for?
Yeah, it is. I mean, to bring it back to hash plants or whatever, probably in the
probably in the last five or six years, as people started measuring returns on what on on plants,
people started making hash seriously for the first time in America on a commercial scale.
And trying to figure out what cultivars and actually breeding for hash, which really wasn't
done in the 80s, 90s 2000s. Right? Nobody really people were breeding for flower. Yeah, for the
most part, you know, people weren't breeding for hash. I can't imagine. Well, frozen hash,
which is, you know, arguably some of the tastiest hash for sure. Yeah, they didn't have the gear.
I mean, Americans like it easy. We don't have like a village that we can just be like,
alright, for the next 12 hours, all you families, you're, you're like bashing weed over a screen
with no with no mask. You know, you watch some of those you watch you watch some of those, some
of those videos of what those guys do. And I don't know how they don't have an allergy attack like
every day of their life. Because they're just in a fucking huddle. Yeah. How many people they've
eaten? All that gut allergies moved out and did something different. Yeah, they had to leave.
They had to leave. These are desensitized people because it's just a dust cloud you're working in
all day long. Exactly. If you can't do this, you're living in Morocco. But the same thing is
true to where it's like there's a big push where like a lot of the popular hash strains, they
probably get popular because they yield great not because they're the best higher flavor. Yeah,
there's always that pressure to there's the money versus quality pressure.
I mean, number one was one of the best hash plants for me ever. Right skunk number one and
it's hybrids from Amsterdam. Why? Because Sam bred the shit for making hash. Right?
He's a resin farmer. Yeah. Like he made the money that he made by breeding a plant for 97%
THC in the trichome head and then selling that as technology to GW Pharmaceuticals. Like that's,
that's his that's his claim to fame right there. And he's like the only one that's
done that even and he did that shit back in the 90s. I mean, you know that it's an impressive
feat regardless. Yeah, every breeder should be right but made a lot of you know the netter hash
and everything else that became popular now is the water hash market. I mean, we were talking
to a Camara a while ago and he was talking about how he's never even seen Sam smoke flower.
That he you know, he breeds he's a resin. That's what he called him. He's a resin farmer.
Yeah, I don't like he does. He likes to breed for resin. That's what he's after. That's what
he's interested in. That's what he cares about. You know, that's pretty dope. I am
bubble man doesn't smoke flower either. It's kind of the same mentality.
Not interesting. But you know, I consider sour diesel and diesel family to basically be like
America's modern skunk. Yeah, you know, that I very skunkoid, you know, type, type, you know,
plant type aromas, all that. It's a little different. It's definitely not skunk one.
But it's definitely like it's in that family. Yeah, it's modern skunk. I mean, even just chem
family stuff in general is I would almost say is pretty similar. You know, yeah, big,
tall running colas on a lot of hybrids a little bit longer flowering hybrid plant. And, you know,
synonymous with, you know, good quality and commercial production. Yeah, only women enslaved
smoke flower. That's my favorite quote ever. It is. It's really funny quote. It's a really
that's one of the dudes that told a funny story, I guess. When Sam skunk man was in Amsterdam was
in Afghanistan looking for seeds. He asked some of them who did Dean for for flower because he
wanted the seeds. And the guy looked at him and was like, only women enslaved smoke flower,
men smoke hash. And he was basically like, Are you a woman or a slave? And he had to explain
that he wanted the seeds from the flower. He had no interest in the flower to smoke whatsoever.
But he wanted to make his own hash at home. And he wanted the seeds and that made sense to the
dude. But he was literally like women enslaved smoke flower. Men smoke hashish. So I handed him
a pair of chains. I mean, culturally, they're very different, you know, for sure. It's very
different. Well, it's an unprocessed product, you know. And shit. I mean, if I was, if you just,
if you just grow a field of seed plants, and randomly pick a flower to smoke,
it's probably not the greatest experience. No, no, especially if the flower wasn't ever bred for
smoke. Exactly. Like one of the one of the things about sativas is at least the, you know, they were
breeding for the flower itself to be smoked. I mean, one thing I find interesting that everybody
you always see that comment, it's kind of a misconception in cannabis breeding is that,
oh, just go back to land race, and it'll fix whatever problem someone's talking about. Like,
all these people are hermey nowadays, because of this and this and that. You should just go back
to the land race. Yeah, it makes something new. And it's like, if you've ever grown lots of land
race varieties, sativa, indica, everything in between, I've grown tons of seeds from all over
the world. And guaranteed, the vast majority of them have equal or higher amounts of hermaphroditism.
Like, you know, plants when you grow them from seed and the flower seedless, but it has those
little tiny black like, those, and you'll like roll a joint up and it's like all these
little black specks on the table. Right? I've looked at them under a microscope. It's I mean,
it literally it sounds like you have spider mites in your in your flower, but it's yeah,
I mean, they're, they're tiny. Those are really common. Do you know the Rostas pick those out?
I need trichome or tiny trichome heads and tiny calyxes. I mean, or bracts. Yeah. It's like,
that's the majority of what's in the populations is those type of plants. Now the resin can be
really nice. A lot of them, it smells good. It's really greasy is potent when you smoke it, but
the flower itself is just not desirable. Has lots of growth problems as well.
Yeah. Land race is like whipping yourself. Oh, definitely setting. It's definitely a lot of pain.
It's pain. It's turning back the clock. And, and then you, if you, if you think that that's the way
to fix a population or something like that, it's basically you assuming that, Hey, I'm going to
turn back the clock 50 years, and I'm going to do this myself from scratch and do a better job
than all the people that have done it between me and now. And it's like, dude, we're just lucky
that there was a decent population of plants for all of us to start with in the first place.
You know? And it's like the, the goal is to at least make hybrids and select for plants that'll
continue to increase that quality so that the next person that does that, that, that again,
will continue to improve the population better than you did. And that's, that's inadvertently
how we've gotten to where we are with all the herm, all the feminized pollinate, accidental
feminized pollination that gives us our main breeding population of today. Sure. Because it
was always the best plants crossed with the best plants because no one kept anything else for the
most part. Yeah. We've gotten this question a few times, so I'll ask it. What's up with your
Malawi? What's the sourcing on that? That came from the glass scene up here in Washington,
but by way of Oregon. Very cool. I don't know anything about who popped the seeds. I mean,
how it got here or anything. Yeah. Super, super like land race. It's like obsolete used it. Right.
I think Caleb had it at one point. I think shot 707 seed bank had it for sure and ran it from
back in the day. I mean, it was, it was one of those plants that had a really strong,
like hazy aroma when you smoke the flower. Interesting. Somebody said more like Eugene gold.
What's that? I don't know when they were talking about Malawi.
Maybe that was another name. Someone called it.
Mm hmm. Well, yeah, we talked earlier about like the weird Instagram stuff and everything that's
been going on. One thing we're trying to put together that I was gonna talk about tonight
real quick before we're done is that we're trying to put together the breeder syndicate social.
And I know like, I think Fletch, you saw Flandell's social thing he was trying to put together.
We're going to use that similar type platform so we can have a nerd IG for us. So we'll figure it
out. But I wanted to at least get that out there today. So people have an idea to look for it.
For sure. Yeah. Anything you're dropping soon, Fletch?
Maybe I don't know, but I'm not going to plug shit on here. We're just talking weed.
That's cool as fuck, dude. Yeah, not so.
No, I mean, I, I, we obviously had a pretty wide ranging conversation. Sometimes it's good.
We I had a Malawi. I don't know if it's the same one. How long did yours take forever to finish?
It was like 90, 80, 90 days, probably.
Yeah, I had this one and I never could get it to I needed to like debit starting in June,
you know, and, and, and I never did that. And I grew it inside a few times and it took twice as
long as everything else. That's the hard part about having sativas is you kind of need their
own unique space for their life cycle. Yeah. Yeah. You know, you because otherwise you can't
like clean and reset and read it. You know, you've just got this like, okay, now I have three plants
that are fucking forever in a day from being done. You know? Yeah. Yeah. Cool. All right.
Yeah. Check out breeder syndicate, Patreon, go to Google, type it in, come hang out with us on
discord. We shoot the shit all the time and thanks a lot for coming and hanging out. It's always a
pleasure. It was super cool. Everybody enjoy your Friday night. Later guys. Be sure to check out our
Patreon by going to Google and searching breeder syndicate Patreon.
We have a secret discord where we are available at most times and interact daily. There are a lot
of perks to be had there. So check it out. Need seeds, check out riot seeds.com where you can get
our seeds and our reversal spray for making your own feminized seeds.
