Welcome to Breeder's Syndicate, where we explore the history of a clandestine scene
through the eyes of the folks who lived it.
I'm Matthew, owner of Riot Seeds.
I'll occasionally be joined by my co-host NotSoDog, breeder and grower from Mendocino.
Welcome to the underground.
Hello.
I think this is working.
I think we're live, so I think we're good.
You think we're good?
Yeah, I think we're good.
We can rock it.
So tonight we're going to do the diesels A to Z.
I know we've covered it before.
Sometimes ad nauseum, we cover super skunk stuff.
However, I think this is going to be a good way to do it with our new platform, being
able to illustrate with pictures and whatnot.
So I wanted to be able to do kind of like a documentary style thing with pretty much
NotSo narrating as we go along and covering what we can of the diesel story, which means
we're not going to touch as much on the...
Uh-oh, we lost the NotSo, which means we're not going to touch on as much of the chem
story, I think.
Am I still here?
Is this still live, everyone?
Hold on.
Oh, there he is.
Okay.
Just making sure.
I have no idea what happened.
I think that was my fat thumb, to be honest.
We'll put that up to a fat thumb mistake where I hit the wrong button.
That's all right.
Yeah, see, we're live again.
See, now you guys know we're live this time.
So yeah, we wanted to cover it all.
We're not going to jump as much into the chems because we've covered a lot of the chems,
but we do want to do a serious diesel presentation.
So we're going to do a diesel presentation.
So we're going to do a diesel presentation.
So we're going to do a diesel presentation.
So we're going to do a diesel presentation.
So we're going to do a diesel presentation.
We're going to rehash this, obviously, or whatever.
So there's...
And maybe we decided that since it's the Thanksgiving holiday that we could pick a subject that
everybody likes to argue about.
Because it's one of those ones where whenever you talk about it, some people are happy,
some people think you're wrong on some parts of it, and some people are offended.
Right?
Yeah, definitely.
Whenever we do this, there is definitely going to be people offended.
It just is what it is.
So it's just as a disclaimer, this is like everything that we're saying is the best as
we know it.
New information pops up at different times.
Sometimes it's good, sometimes not.
But it's all wrapped up in one of those things where it became one of the most famous strains
in America for a while.
And then so how it originated gets battled about.
And because it happened in the 90s, when there was a lot of secrecy, it took, relatively
speaking, a long time for the story to come out.
For which people involved decided to speak when?
Yeah, there's a lot of claimants to the throne of diesel.
There's no shortage to that, that's for sure.
And which cut is the original?
There's different perspectives on it, right?
Obviously any time, one of the ways that people get rep in the cannabis community or whatever
is having some kind of tie or even responsibility, perhaps, for a famous cut or a famous line.
It's one of the best ways to get Canada longevity and fame, I guess you could say.
Best way to start a seed company, to kick off a seed company.
Yes, definitely that, for sure.
Especially if you're offering a clone that other people don't have very much, right?
So there's that aspect of it.
But then there's also the aspect is like sour and diesels became popular in the pre-marketing
era of cannabis.
They sort of became organically popular.
And then the more popular they became, the more people hunted them out to find more of
it.
And then the more it got grown, and then it sort of became a self-fulfilling prophecy.
Where eventually sour became popular enough that literally people talked about diesel
as gas.
And gas operated like a whole section of the market.
It still does.
It's still huge.
Every day I get emails asking, what do you got that's gas?
I need the gas.
Almost more than anything, people still demand gas.
And I think it's a number of factors.
So it's interesting, you can hit sour from all these different angles.
And as Matt said, we'll eventually get to the point where we start chatting about specific
cuts and things like that, but maybe even a more general start.
So diesel, and it's beginning, and this is some confusion out there, but diesel was slang
for good weed in New York in that era.
Just so people know, there wasn't a specific cut or a specific something that came out
where before that name had never been associated with weed.
Because that's what happens a lot of times with famous strains.
So diesel came out and diesel was just slang for good weed.
And then sour diesel came out and these diesel cuts, and it became so famous that it pretty
much swamped anything that had been called diesel before.
It became the diesel.
So there's other things out there that people called diesel back in the day, and it eventually
got swamped by this one family.
This is the family.
Now, do you want to start about, talk about what the original thoughts were that the diesel was?
I mean, I remember when we first got on the forums, a lot of people were saying it was
just bag seed and that was it.
Well that's pretty much held up.
Self-Chem 91.
You know, that I don't think is held up.
Just because now we've gotten a chance to look through a whole bunch of Chem 91 S1s.
And so it's definitely got other influences to it.
But I do think it's true that it was some bag seed.
There's a little bit more to the story than that, obviously, and that's where the confusion
comes in.
But it seems relatively safe to say that it's some combination of Chem and Skunk.
There we go.
So here's the dog.
Your old favorite, right?
Indeed.
This is an old High Times photo.
I assume it was taken of maybe from Gee's place.
Not 100, but I assume so.
And then, you know, I mean, it's not the most photogenic plant ever.
It has a lot of traits that are very distinctive.
You know, we've talked about it before.
The leaf cannibalism trait.
It's not everyone's favorite.
It doesn't make for a great finished bud either.
No, it doesn't.
Yeah, I have a few more good shots of 91.
I want to mostly give people an idea of how it will breed.
So looking at the traits of the dog, here's some more.
This is, I think, Jimmy Nitz.
All we're seeing is like seven thumbnails right now.
So you're not actually giving us very much.
Let me see what's going on here.
Okay, so it's not sharing it again.
I got to get good at this.
Let's see.
Share screen.
Window.
There we go.
Share.
There we go.
So this is Jimmy Nitz.
Pictures of it.
And this is the dog.
So we're looking at some of the traits of the dog here.
And you will see some of these pass on to what we see later on.
So that, if you go back a second, that pick right there, right?
Yep.
Especially with what the leaf does.
You know?
Yes, that's a great shot.
I can see that in Sour.
Yeah, you can see it in Sour's progeny too.
You know, and people, if people want to take note, you can kind of take note of like the
dark leaves, right?
And some of the structure.
It's obviously not exact by any means.
Dog is much more of kind of a stouter Afghan.
It is a little bit leggy, but nothing like the diesel.
But it does, I do think some of that bud structure and some of those dark leaves and some of
the way the leaves, yellow and brown, is pretty characteristic of the chem dog.
And here's an old chem dog picture from high times as well in the upper right corner.
You know, a different way of growing it, obviously.
Different style.
Yeah, I mean, it's, she certainly comes out in different ways.
And so just so people know, what's generally agreed upon is that Sour is some combination
of Chem 91 and Skunk.
And to illustrate that, I will bring this up.
Let's see.
And that's kind of where some of the guff comes in, I think, in terms of like what people
say it is, right?
Yeah, there's a Polaroid from Skunk VA about some of the old Super Skunk.
And I also think you can see Sour diesel traits in that pic.
Yeah.
You know?
So to me, it's basically a Chem Skunk.
I've grown a lot of Chem Skunk hybrids.
I'm not saying it's exactly that and nothing else.
It could even have a couple of Herms in between.
But I mean, the general story is that these guys got, you know, they were getting some
supposed Chem dog, either that or a hybrid, from this dude.
And they found seeds in it.
And they collected those seeds and they popped them in the summer of 95.
And they got a couple cuts that they kept and they called them Diesel 1 and Diesel 2.
Right?
Yep.
And then they gave some weed of that marked Our Diesel to their homie who grew it out.
And he found some seed.
And he thought that the Our Diesel had an S in front of it.
And so he thought it was called Sour Diesel.
Right?
So we know the mom of Sour Diesel because we know the bud that the weed came out of.
The seeds, yeah.
Yeah.
We know the weed that the seeds came out of.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So we know the mom for sure.
It was this cut.
And it's also, just so people know, because it started another legend, the mom of it,
they called Diesel 2, but some people called it Headband.
And so because there was this mystery of what the New York headband actually was, there's
a whole field of headband cuts that claim to be that one.
Yeah.
The first original New York City headband.
Right?
These are some really early picks, ones from High Times, ones from Cannibal, of different
Sour Diesel cuts.
And then in the bottom right corner here, you could probably be able to see the headband
as it was stated in the Cannibal, which is not 100.
There's different ones.
And then there's a few OG strains that got their name changed to Headband, which added
to the confusion.
Yeah.
Then there's names bandied about like Daywrecker, which Matt is more...
This headband looks pretty cushy in this picture.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And so it added to a bunch of confusion because outside of a really small circle, there wasn't
really any confirmation on exactly what the famous New York City headband was.
Yeah.
Nor did people know that it was Mom of Sour Diesel.
That's correct.
For a long time.
That was not known.
Yeah.
That was a tidbit that came out pretty much in recent years, I think, that was confirmed.
Yeah.
You know, and so as a result of that, like Matt knows a little bit better than me.
But in terms of the forums, wasn't it like there was a bunch of stuff like it came out
of the RFK skunk and there was DHL in it.
There was all these theories bandied about, about a much more complicated lineage, right?
Yeah.
Hawaiian RFK skunk, Norton Lights.
Yeah.
That was the theory JJ put forward for it.
And it was a decent theory, you know.
I don't think it turned, panned out very well because RFK skunk was being passed around
at the time.
And it was in the same kind of room.
So a lot of the same crews were growing it.
So it was, it was, it was a decent theory.
No.
And I mean, I also think too, that like much more so than theories, it's like you have
different people that are, that are involved in the scene or whatever that come along and
they tell their version of it and other people are staying quiet.
Right.
And so for, you know, for a lot of times and a lot of cannabis stories, the people that
come out first with the first story, get, get the most rep.
Yep.
That's why that OG Kush story about the lemon Pakistani and all that still is passed down
this day, like, like biblical because people really think that's real.
To be honest, regardless of all that, before we get into it, like a discussion about like
the various, the various versions of it, sort of what happened in my opinion is that, you
know, the East coast is, is a, is a big consumer area and they loved it.
And I think that it worked really well.
It had a really good zippy up high.
It got people super baked.
It tasted great.
It had a pungent and very distinctive nose.
And I also think the nose lasted for a while and didn't fade very fast.
So when people were bringing it different places like that, that persisted.
And so it just became something that people knew when they bought was consistent and good.
Yeah.
And so completely separate from the lineage, the vast majority of people that grew ever
grew sour diesel, knew almost nothing of what we just talked about.
Yeah.
They got this cut as sour diesel or sour or whatever.
And people would buy it for a, for a good month for a good chunk and they like to smoke
it.
And so all kinds of people started growing.
Yeah.
And on the West coast and Mendo and Humboldt, it was a huge thing, you know, because it
was, it was like growing modern skunk weed.
It got big, it was fluffy.
It took quite a while.
It wasn't the easiest outdoor plan.
It did great in depths.
Right.
Yeah.
And it was, it was kind of funny inside depending, it was temperature dependent.
And a lot of times people, you know, it should go probably like 10 or 11, 12 weeks, maybe
even 13, depending on the pheno.
And most people will take it, would take it back in the day as soon as they could get
away with getting the nose on it.
Yeah.
So there was a lot of sour that was, that was harvested between 60 and 65 days that
probably should have gone 70 or 75.
Yeah.
In all honesty.
Is this the, the one that I have up here?
Are you familiar with this one?
The super leafy looking one?
You know, I think that's the way it was grown.
And I don't, I don't remember where he took that one.
So I can't really say.
I've seen people put up pictures of a plant that looks very similar to this one saying,
yeah, I got the original diesel one from the Canada Bible, but I just never really been
able to confirm it just because it looks so different than any of the ways I've seen diesel
grown.
I mean, it seems like the thing about the, the, the thing about the bag seed beginning
is that it, uh, which I don't know which way to is the best way to put it, but it seems
like that multiple people got multiple bag seeds even early on.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And so there was probably, you know, at least there was a couple of things that were diesel.
There was a thing that was headband.
There was a couple sours.
I mean, even the people that tell the story, say the guy that found sour diesel, he had
a couple of Finos, but only one got out.
Yeah.
You know, I also, um, real quick for anybody listening to the audio version of this after
we upload it later, um, I highly recommend watching the episode because there's a lot
more to it with visual aids and stuff.
So definitely if you listen to it, go back and rewatch.
Go ahead.
Yeah.
So it got, it got really popular in the sense that it was, uh, it's one in my mind, it's
one of the best families of cannabis out there.
Yeah.
It has a really nice high, it burns really well.
It's not overly dense, um, which is good in my opinion, when it comes to taking bong hits
or smoking a joint or anything like that.
I think burnability is a, like an overlook component.
Yeah.
I totally agree.
Even, even breakup ability, like it's, it's really obnoxious to have to try to break up
these big ass dense nugs.
I don't know.
They don't break up that well.
I mean, this might be dumb or whatever, but like one of the things that I like to breed
for is like, you know, weed is convenient when it's like in the dark at a concert and
you can break off a chunk with your hand and stuff it into a pipe and that's all you need
to do.
And you can then smoke it.
Yeah.
Right.
That's a good trait.
Good quality.
It's a good, well, it also makes this thing where there's a certain amount when you're
burning stuff, there's a certain amount of like air to air to material ratio that helps
it burn.
Yeah.
And then that makes you get a good, a good hit or not.
And so I think diesels burned really well.
So they were like a pretty effective delivery device as far as getting buzzed.
How do you think the Grateful Dead came into play with the popularity of diesel?
I mean, that's, that comes into play really early on.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, you know, for one thing, if we're correct in that, you know, chem dog
is the beginning of it or whatever that like, you know, the seeds that came that became
chem dog were acquired at a dead show.
Yeah.
You know, it was bag seed there.
And you know, I do think in, in terms of like the nineties, especially, it's not so much
like this anymore, but in terms of the nineties, Grateful Dead hippies were sort of the highway
epicenter of the American weed market.
Yeah.
You know, it's, there's a lot of different groups that grow now and I'm not saying obviously
they were the only people, but like, you know kind buds sort of started being regularly
spread about through dead shows and hippies.
Yeah.
And there was a lot of them growing it.
And so as a result of that, like, you know the, the people sour diesel came from were
essentially hippies.
Yeah.
They like to go see the Grateful Dead.
They like to go see fish.
You know, it was the kids that like to go party and have a good time and, and see some
music.
And that brought together people from disparate parts of America.
Yeah.
Which means that mixed strains and that mixed seeds and people brought those things home.
You know, they brought it from California to wherever it went to New York.
It, it moved around.
Yeah, it definitely did.
So you know I think at the time probably like the Grateful Dead was like sort of like America's
last nomadic tribe of people.
It's an interesting way of looking at it.
It's true.
In a way.
Yeah.
You know, we were, they were kind of like the Roma, you know, they were kind of like
gypsies in a way.
Yeah.
Like, you know, three quarters of the year they tripped around the country.
Yeah.
And they, and they had to figure out a way to survive going from town to town.
And one of the ways they survived was by hustling weed.
Yeah.
And you know, so it was found at a dead show and then it like, and then they were growing
it and selling it to other hippies and then it, it harmed and then it harmed again and,
and so on and so forth.
I don't think that's true anymore.
Yeah.
There's no tour like that anymore.
And like, you know, growing cannabis especially has gone into all kinds of walks of life.
Yeah, for sure.
You know, so, but for a minute there, it was kind of like, it was spread around by a lot
of people that were like that or connected to that.
Yeah.
So.
Which one did you want to cover next?
Which direction did you want to go next?
So really what we could do is I think, let's put it this way, right?
There was two different things going on.
There was a scene in New York that was kind of small and indoor based where people were
getting crazy digits for sour, right?
People like AJ and Manny, various, various different groups.
And then it made its way West because it was easier because with 215 in California and
other places, it was easier to grow more of it in the West.
But it was still supplying that initial demand back there.
And I think for a while it was just sour diesel.
There was no other name or qualifier given.
And I would say maybe, and you can correct me if you think I'm wrong, but I think that
the forums is where all these other names started to percolate around.
Yeah, I would think so.
So from like, let's say the mid nineties when it came out to like the early two thousands,
was there names or was it all just sour diesel?
You know, I wouldn't know.
That's prior to my time.
So I think it was all just, I think, you know, I mean, I got my cut and it was helpfully
called sour D. Yeah.
That's pretty helpful.
Yeah, it was very helpful.
And you know, and then as the forums happened, that's the beginning of like people needing
to identify like where strains come from.
Yeah.
So then you get like stuff like, oh, what is this?
This is the Chaco.
Yeah.
This is the East.
This is the, this is the Shroomy.
Right.
Yep.
What were some of the other early names of sour?
Amish was one.
I mean, I think that was one of the Shroomy, other names for Shroomy because there were
several.
Yeah, because Shroomy was supposedly from Pennsylvania.
So it was sometimes called his name or Amish.
I called it Cobb sometimes because Cobb did amazing grows of it.
When people would ask me, I'd be like, either look at Chaco's, he's got a great grow of
it or Cobb.
Right.
Look at Chaco or like, why did, you know, there's a lot of people that call the dog
the skunk VA cut.
Yeah.
Why?
Because he was online talking about it and they were trying to figure out a way to label
the specific thing he was talking about.
And so, oh, it's a, so it's this one.
Yeah.
Right.
And so the same thing happened with sour diesel.
And what's funny about that is that sour diesel goes through phases where if it's good, sour,
nobody gives a shit.
And then it goes through a phase where lineage is important and people try to track down
lineage and then it goes through a phase where it's not important.
And if it's good, sour, it's good, sour.
And now we're in a phase again where lineage is really important.
Being the first one is important and having the real deal is important.
But there's probably like 15 or 20 different sour diesel names.
Yeah.
And even more so now in the past three years, I'd say many more popped up.
So many more, so many more.
I mean, so we've got like, just the ones I think off off my head that people talk about,
like East Coast sour diesel, New York City diesel, right.
Amish, Chaco.
ECSD.
ECSD.
The DHK cut was one.
The Devil's Harvest Crew cut.
DHK cut.
There was also the Dark Heart Nursery cut, the DHN cut.
Oh no.
I think I'm still going.
I don't know if he shit out or I did.
Let me know if you all see this.
Are you there?
Yeah.
Am I back?
Yeah.
I'm alive.
I don't know what happened.
I don't know how far Matt got with the name.
The Dark Heart Nursery cut.
So we had the DHN, the DHK.
There's a lot more.
Well, yeah.
And then a little later came the Rez cut.
Yep.
You know, because ChemDog gave Rez a cut of sour diesel and he started making seeds with
it, you know, and stuff like that.
And so there was probably a number of cuts that came from Rez seeds that got repurposed.
Because everybody just wanted to call to the brokers or whatever.
It was sour diesel.
They didn't really want to explain its origin.
So it got super confusing.
And it's almost a little bit like what happened with Hayes.
Where like in New York, there's like, you know, in Florida, there's like, you know,
15 different, 20 different Hayes names that only a tiny percentage of people really know
where they originated from.
And then there's things that are called, you know, that are named that.
In recent ones, it's like, you know, now there's like, there's a JP cut.
There's a skunk debt cut.
Some people attach my name to a cut.
There's an A cut, the Hunter Mountain cut, the Catskills cut.
And helpfully called the real sour diesel.
As if that clears it all up.
You know, the Manny cut, the AJ cut, we left out AJ.
AJ's had his name attached probably first.
Yeah, yeah.
Yes.
You know, I mean, there was, you know, the AJ cut.
And the AJ cut has probably had like several cuts.
Yeah, have been called the AJ.
It's kind of like ghost OG.
And that like, what's the original AJ isn't the current AJ.
Yeah, yeah.
The original ghost isn't even the same ghost from the forums.
It's fucking weird how that works.
Yeah, you know, things change.
So I mean, well, it is weird how it works.
But then we're talking about something that was sprouted in 96 and it's 2022.
Yeah.
And so it's gone through like 26 years of clandestine shifting around.
Right.
And it also was one of the most popular cuts in America for probably 10 years.
Yeah.
At least.
I mean, it goes through phases, you know, like it's been the most popular cut in America
a few times for long spans of time.
Yeah.
I mean, I think I think the only reason why I said for 10 years is probably because it
probably took until about 2005, 2006 for enough people to get a hold of it, that there was
just so much of it that it could become probably like the most popular kind of.
Yeah.
Because even though it's popular before, it's like you can only get so popular if only so
many people are growing it.
Yep.
So it did take some time to spread.
And I think it remained popular right up until probably like this last wave of candy, kitty
purple weed.
Yeah.
That took over and everything had to be, you know, some kind of gelato or cookie hybrid
of some type, some it had to have a specific look.
There was a lot of variations on the theme.
And for the first time in about 20 years, kind of gas fell off for a minute.
You started hearing if it's not purple, it won't move.
Yeah.
You stopped seeing a lot of the sour beginnings of the names and stuff added to different
strain names.
Yeah.
And now and what's funny about that is then sour had like a moment for two or three, four
years where it wasn't very popular.
And now it's had a resurgence.
Yeah.
Which is really weird because then you have a situation now where there's like 15 or 18
names and everyone has the everyone has the special, rarest, oldest, bestest.
Yeah.
Strongest, mostest.
Yeah.
The bestest.
The grandma's.
All of it.
Yeah.
Oh, all of it.
You know, and there's a lot of certainty in an uncertain world in that regard, in my opinion.
Luckily, most of them are pretty good.
Yeah.
You know, in all honesty, it's like there's there's only there's only really been one
that I thought sucked terribly.
Which one was that?
That was the Joe B. Diesel.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
The the the Kim 91 J.B.
Yeah.
I mean, yeah, the I don't know what I you know, there's a thing I've told this story
before, but there's a thing where I just had this one sour diesel cut for a long time and
I never traded with anyone because I had it.
And then people started asking me which version I had and I had no idea.
I still have no idea.
Yeah.
So occasionally I collect half a dozen of them or so and I grow them all next to mine
in the same room at the same time in the same environment to see like which which you know,
what are the differences?
Yeah.
Right.
And, you know, there's there's a good amount of cuts out there and their origins are mysterious,
you know, so I don't know what mine is.
I still I kept at first I was like, oh, I'm just going to get this half a dozen or whatever
and I'm going to grow them and then whatever one mine is, that's that's what everyone calls
it.
Yeah.
Only that didn't happen.
Let me see.
I'm going to put up a picture just so people can see what we're talking about here.
Where's the sours?
I think that's it.
It's going to be in this one.
And is it here?
Is that it?
No, no, no.
That's a choco.
Here we go.
There we go.
I need to is it is it up?
Yeah, I can see it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And just so people know, I think Matt can see comments.
The format I've got right now, it's like hard for me to read at the same time.
So I apologize if I'm missing stuff or if you see anything super pertinent, Matt, just
speak up.
Now it's just a black screen.
Huh?
Is it back up?
It's back up.
There we go.
OK.
I don't know.
It's probably like four weeks in.
There's a nugget of it.
There's so much like chocos like it is like at least this this this particular, you know,
but yes.
Yeah.
I mean, yeah, I got that.
I got that cut around 2000 and we've never lost it.
And that's what I consider sour diesel.
And if you if you pause it for a second, you know, when people were when we when you showed
those pictures of the dog, the chem dog earlier and I had you pause at that other one where
you could see like the leaf rust and death.
Yeah.
Weird necrosis and stuff.
If you look at that sour diesel right there, you can see that same kind of of issue.
Yeah.
Right.
So the very.
Yeah.
Go ahead.
So the very first sour I got, there's a lot of people that have sours that variegate.
Mine doesn't variegate.
It does that.
Yeah.
Whatever you whatever, whatever technical term you'd call that it.
So that's not really like somebody messing up on the nutrient or whatever.
Like the dog, it does the thing where it starts to eat its leaves about halfway through sometimes.
And there's not a whole hell of a lot you can do about it.
Yeah.
Sometimes it's more pronounced than others, but it almost always happens.
And that one right there, it never variegates ever.
It just does that.
You know, I was going to show this real quick.
This is a panda's cut that keeps being passed around as mass super of the diesel sour dub.
It also has that same trait.
It also has that.
Yeah.
It has a very similar trait in that regard.
So that's.
But then like my L.A. cut my headband, you know, and then other sours I see people have
like more of that chem D patterning variegation.
Yeah.
It doesn't do the leaf rust, leaf death, necrosis type yellowing.
It has its own distinct thing that it does.
Yeah.
You know, and I'm not saying mine's the first.
Like, you know, I don't know.
I don't know what I don't know what mine is before I got it.
But I can say I've had it since then and not lost it.
Yeah.
Right.
And it throws bats.
And, you know, more importantly than that, it's it's got like just because it's the first
one, it's got what I consider to have like the distinct sour notes.
Yeah.
You know, and can we talk about that a little bit?
Because like that's something that a lot of people, even to this day, like I'll hear,
oh, it's got the sour nose, you know, it's sour like like lemons.
You know, I get that a lot.
Like it's sour, like, you know, like sour, you know.
But when I think of sour, I think rubber skunky, you know, what's sour to you?
So what I will say is like the diesel family, right, that particular one, it smells it has
I would say it has gas, but the gas is almost on the back end, right, where a lot of diesels
it's it's on the forefront.
It's like the fumes of the first thing that hits your nose.
Yeah, that one has gas, but it also has this weird nose crinkle in the sense that, you
know, sometimes you smell things that like should be gross, but it's weed.
So it smells delicious somehow.
Yeah, it's got kind of that.
It's got like a nose crinkle gas that's a little bit sour.
That's a little bit off.
Yeah. Right.
That's my perception of it, at least.
And it tastes really the the flavor carries over pretty strongly.
Yeah. It's a big, big trade of sour.
I would say the general.
Yeah, the flavor itself of what you get on the nose is what you get on the palate.
Right. Where I think a lot of a lot of the more modern stuff as far as diesels and sours
go, which I still love a lot, like the fuel nose, the gas nose is like very prevalent.
It's like the it's like on the forward.
So that right there, although I didn't tell you that, Matt, when we were setting some
of these up, but all those East Coast sour diesel picks that I sent you.
Yeah. Right here.
These are all from the homie Pip.
Yeah.
I mean, he didn't grow it, but he he's who gave me that version of East Coast sour diesel.
Yeah.
And so I ran this one next to the Chaco and they're identical.
And so if you see that one, hold on, go back one.
If you see that one there, it's got to me like that's a nice cola.
It's got a very delicate, feathery, you know, skunk kind of like overlaying Calyx is kind
of approach.
Right.
A little bit of foxtailing going on where like if that the actual sour that I have was
much more of a chunk.
Yeah.
Right.
There was my donkey, but it was it was very chunky.
There was more side buds to it that East Coast sour diesel would throw bats, but they were
delicate, feathery, looser bats.
I want to say something real quick for people who don't aren't familiar with greenhouse
and outdoor.
And that's kind of like me.
I didn't do a lot of it.
So when you're looking at plants, it's they look very different indoor to greenhouse to
outdoor.
So if you're looking at this and thinking, oh, that doesn't look anything like my my
East Coast sour diesel or my ECSD cut, I don't know.
A lot of it's going to have to do with the morphology from it going indoor to outdoor
greenhouse and all that.
So I just wanted to make that clear for people, because a lot of people try to make those
associations by looking at pictures of cuts and saying, this is this the same cut, you
know, and that's a major jump going outdoor to to indoors.
So I do think and that's a good point.
And maybe we could segue into that for just a second.
Sure.
Which is there are some strains that are very easy to identify visually because they tend
to perform in different environments, whether it's indoor, outdoor, greenhouse.
They tend to perform similarly enough that they're easy to identify.
The diesel family in general is not that way.
It can come out very different even in people's indoors.
It's very sensitive to light.
It's very sensitive to food and whether it's organic or salts or whatever.
And so to me, the only real way to test diesel really well is to grow it side by side to
itself in the same environment at the same time.
Yeah.
I mean, you can't see it in this greenhouse right yet, but in that greenhouse, I had about
seven types of diesels all growing next to each other.
Same food, same size pots, same light.
Obviously, it was the sun.
I've done the same thing inside, you know, and so that's really where you get to see
the nuances.
Yeah.
I am not good at and I don't think anyone is really that good at looking at diesels
or certain strains like that online and being like looking at this pic and being like, oh,
that's it.
When it's being grown, K and F and under an LED in somebody's environment that's not
yours and you don't grow it like that.
So I think that, you know, I really do believe that you kind of have to like compare same
to same.
Yeah, I agree.
This right here, I was, I didn't load up a picture of indoor sour for whatever reason,
the ECSD, but I did keep a picture of super skunk candy, which has a very similar morphology
bud structure to what sour looks indoor.
It's very similar to the ECSD cut specifically.
I mean, I'll say, you know, I'll say that when I grow diesel, I see, I see super skunk
and I see chem dog in it.
Yeah.
I can't guarantee it's the only thing in it, but I see traits that pass down from both
parents.
Yeah.
You know, easily.
And I've grown a lot of all of them.
So, you know, it, uh, take that.
And I also think that like sour for everyone listening, diesels in general is our modern
skunk.
Yeah.
I, you know, I, I agree that sour, you know, I think that fuel and gas and that nose crinkle
and all that weird.
I think that's all offshoots of like that rank RFK, like all that skunk stink.
Yeah.
I think it's just all plays on the same notes.
I put up pictures of chem 91 again, so people can get another idea for a look at super skunk.
But if you go, go back to one more.
That one?
You can see it on that one.
And you had another one in there.
Uh, Oh, one more back.
There you go.
That one.
You can see when I was showing my picture of sour diesel and he was showing that sour
dub.
Yeah.
Right.
That, uh, so that's three different cuts.
You can see that same weird leaf curl, Browning leaf death the whole bit.
Yeah.
That's a trait that passes in my opinion.
And another trait that I see in super skunk a lot, and I only ever see it in super skunk
are these little, what we call them dog tongues leaves.
And they're little slightly rounded, not very resonance leaves.
And they're all over the buds and little tiny small parts.
And usually, uh, any super skunk types, whether it be chem 91, in my opinion, um, any of them
sour, usually you'll see those little things.
And uh, it's, it's a trait that runs through super skunk and it's usually easy to tell
super skunk because of that trait.
It's one of those identifying visual traits.
So, you know, I mean, I guess there's, um, so there's probably like a, uh, there was
the first wave of sour that got passed around a bunch and those were just labeled sour diesel
and they had basically no other monikers.
And then there was probably something from, I don't know, would you say like the mid two
thousands on where there was a whole batch that started getting named on the internet?
Yeah.
Right.
And then it fell out of popularity for a minute.
And now there's another whole batch that has gotten named on the internet.
And again, it's like, I know, you know, Jay plant speaker has asked people not to, not
to name it after him cause it's not his.
But what happens is, is you tend to name it by the source that other people would know
it.
You need some kind of descriptor.
Yeah.
And then what ends up being not so sour or JP sour or skunk tech sour or this sour or,
you know, uh, or, or whatever.
Um, and, uh, you know, I don't know that, you know, I would have to go get probably
gather up another half a dozen sours and grow them against the ones that I know.
Yeah.
Cause at one point I think I had like nine or 10.
That's a lot of them.
This is shit.
A lot of sours.
I didn't keep all of them, but I was trying to collect them to see what the hell was going
on.
Yeah.
Cause for a long time I thought there was just a couple of cuts and then I realized
there was a ton.
Yeah.
Keep going.
My headphone broke real quick.
Your headphone broke.
Yeah.
I got to switch headphones.
Keep going.
So yeah, I mean, I, uh, I, um, well, people are talking in the comments.
I'm going to look at, you know, the, uh, uh, the thing about it, someone just asked something
and I wish I had cry baby on right now to explain it, but somebody was asking what are
the main terpenes of, of sour.
And I don't think that terpenes, uh, tell the whole story.
Um, there's these volatile compounds.
I hope I don't, I don't, uh, mangle the word, but he would call it theols.
Theols there's, there's a number of different scent compounds and I think sour diesel and
skunks in general have a relatively complicated chain of those.
So it's a combination of terpenes and, you know, uh, volatile gases and other types of
things that combine to make that aroma.
Yep.
Right.
Um, and, uh, so far, uh, something sulfur compounds, uh, it's on tip my tongue, volatile
sulfur compounds, BSC.
Yeah.
So yeah, because you know, the, even with like the super skunk that he's got posted
up there right now, um, it smelled unbelievable the last two weeks of flower and the first
three or four weeks of, uh, post harvest and then it faded and it didn't store that well.
And it became kind of generic green weed.
So those terpenes were not long lasting.
That was not the kind of weed, the super skunk itself that you would want to store
and let chill for a month for best effect.
That was the kind of weed where like, as soon as it was smokable, you wanted to start ripping
it.
Yeah.
Because it was going to fade where the chem dog was the reverse.
It took almost a month for it to really come into its own.
Yeah.
And I think the sour is a blend of the two, the sour tastes great right away.
And it also holds it for a while, you know, so, um, it holds it pretty well.
Some of the super skunks do not hold that skunkiness super well past drying.
It, it doesn't last long.
Super skunk is best fresh and becomes generic pretty fast.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's the hardest part about it.
It doesn't store well, you know, it doesn't, it, it does not store well.
No, I wonder if that, you know, like we always hear about people like stopping growing skunky
stuff because like they didn't want to get popped or whatever.
I wonder if that another aspect would have been not storing well, like that is a major
important part of, you know, artists.
We, it didn't store that well.
Um, and it was only moderate potency.
Yeah.
That was the other component.
It's a classic example of a strain that does a couple of things really, really well.
Yeah.
But isn't is incomplete.
I mean, that was the whole point of the, of the super dog project really was to sort of
take the lime green color from the super skunk and its flavor and some of its visible crystal
formation, right.
And add that to the frame of the chem dog, which was denser and much more potent and
longer lasting.
Yeah.
So you were trying to see, can we get, can we get the good parts of both into each?
Yeah.
You know, uh, this what's weird though, is that if you made, if you made dry sift, um,
not water hash, but if you made dry, I actually think some of the stuff was water soluble,
but if you made dry sift with the super skunk and you jarred that and treated it nice, the,
the pro the smell profile would stay for a long, long time in Keith.
Yeah.
But in weed it would oxidize and go away.
That's weird.
And I mean, I'm straight up for all of the legendary shit people talk about super skunk,
like six weeks after you cut it down, that shit was generic green weed.
Yeah.
It didn't get you that high.
And I say that as like a big fan of it, you know?
Yeah.
Like it's, it wasn't something that like you were like, oh, you know, man, two months from
now this is going to be the fire.
No, you fucking ripped it.
As soon as it was dry enough to smoke, you started puffing it.
Yeah.
And it would almost, you would almost ruin the dog if you smoked it too soon.
It really benefited.
It was denser and it took longer to cure its flavor and its buzz really benefited by you
kind of leaving it alone for a few weeks.
So they bonded well together because you could smoke the shit out of super skunk for a few
weeks and then finally start hitting your dog.
And then there would be a time period where both were good and then the super skunk would
be bunk and the dog would still be good.
And then you'd harvest again.
Interesting.
And they essentially might've been two different types of super skunk, but just because they
were two different expressions, you could bounce between them.
Yeah.
I mean, I just, I, and it's, what's interesting too is that, you know, we joke around about
how like, you know, the most famous thing that Sam Skunkman ever did was breed the skunk
out of, out of, out of the skunk.
Right.
Yeah.
But his point of view was that the skunky shit didn't have the high he liked.
Okay.
And so he bred away from it.
It had a muddled, not that great a high and the stuff that we all don't like as much like
the citrus and the floral and all that, that had the more up buzz that he enjoyed.
Yeah.
I'll believe it when he comes on the shows and tells it to me.
I don't really believe that story.
Yeah.
I'd love to hear it from him personally.
That's the, that's the thing about all the old timers, right?
Is that there's like very little, there's, it's, it's all there.
Their remembrances.
Yeah.
You know, there is someone though that grew a lot of night or a lot of skunk one from
Robin Sam in 1978, three are going to be interviewing soon.
And he actually has a, he has the documentation.
All of the pictures you can imagine was even in high times selling it, you know, in the
THMQ showing that he was growing it, selling it, it was moving.
And he has very good memories of it.
Very accurate.
And he's, he's really quick with it.
So I'm looking forward to that.
You might actually prove me wrong.
That would be dope.
Yeah.
The more opinions you get to it, I mean, that's kind of the getting back to sour.
That's kind of the crux of like people having one sour story is there's probably like half
a dozen people loosely associated with the creation of sour in one form or another.
Right.
Yeah.
And two or three that are pretty central to it.
And they all don't agree on exactly how it all went down.
Yeah.
Even amongst themselves and publicly.
So, you know, a certain point it's like, who do you trust?
Yeah.
Who do you talk to?
It's hard.
It's hard.
Yeah, it's hard.
It is hard.
It is hard, especially because a lot of times, you know, and Matt and I deal with this all
the time.
But a lot of times when you interview people, their first goal isn't historical honesty.
Yeah.
It's making themselves look good.
Yeah.
I mean, that's kind of part of being human.
Yeah.
It's making the history in a way that suits them, you know, so the more angles you can
get on the same subject at times.
It can be better.
But this is this is a picture from Rascal.
And the reason I chose this picture was because back in the day, it was so hard to find any
good pictures of Jizel, but also realistic pictures, because there were a lot of people
growing stuff that wasn't it.
His showed the in my opinion, how it looks the best low resin production.
It wasn't as foxtail, but I mean, it gets pretty heavily foxtail and looks a lot like
super skunk in that old sensei picture.
But for people to be able to see what Jizel is, it was again, in my opinion, this is a
super skunk S1, not a super skunk chem dog D hybrid like the Kenobible said.
But you see all these wonderful expressions of super skunk, even a little dog tongues
in the Jizel.
I was hoping that some of this genetic testing that came out was going to start revealing
some of these connections and lineages.
So we would have data sets to go with the oral histories and the stories.
But so far, that's been elusive and hasn't really happened.
So we're stuck with the stories.
But I will say that this is just one guy's opinion.
But Jizel is probably up there with like my all time favorite family of weed.
You know, it's up there to me with Hayes or something along those lines in terms of like,
it's definitely like, you know, take it to the island type of bud.
And most of them are pretty nice.
I grew when I realized that there was a bunch of sours out there.
I took my sour, the ECSD from Pip, an NYC Dizel, the Joe B, the Amish.
Clarify the NYC Dizel.
Clarify that for people.
Clarify the NYC Dizel for people that it was not the Soma one.
It's definitely not the Soma one.
No, it wasn't even related.
It was from Bald Eagle.
It was from Bald Eagle.
Yeah.
It was from Bald Eagle.
And then I got a couple others and I grew them all side by side indoors and in a greenhouse two or three times in a row.
Yeah.
Right.
And it was interesting because they, when you're growing like the same family like that,
and you're seeing sisters to each other or half sis, whatever they might be related to each other,
they're definitely all from the same family.
Yeah.
So some of them had dark, had very dark green leaves.
Some of them had very light green leaves.
The yeah, the some of them smelled like the the Chaco.
I grew the Chaco and the East Coast Sour Diesel from Pip.
They were basically, I think, the same.
Yeah.
And they have like to me what I consider to be more like an L.A.
or like a headband smell.
Oh, right.
Yeah.
But the New York City Diesel from Bald Eagle was like pure fuel.
Yeah.
Like dipped in gasoline.
And then you smelled it.
No other notes of anything, just like pure nose crinkling fuel.
Yeah.
Some of them had skunk.
Some of them had a mix of skunk and headband.
That one was fuel.
The Amish was pretty nice.
But compared out of all of them, out of all that first batch, I think the the ECSD that Pip gave that supposedly half of Death Star,
that particular cut, the Chaco or whatever, was my favorite of the ones that weren't mine.
Yeah.
But they were all different.
And other than the East Coast, Sour Diesel and the Chaco, none of them were the same.
Interesting.
And then I grew them again, I think the second year and that year, remember, it was the second can Illuminati party we had.
Yeah.
And I remember I brought four or five different types of those that year.
You know, yeah.
I remember the Amish real well, because that was my favorite for flavor anyways.
Yeah.
But actually that year I didn't actually bring any of my own sour for some reason.
Like it didn't end up in the it didn't end up in the comparison, but I was growing all the newer ones.
Yeah.
And seeing how they perform and some of them were shorter and fatter and yielded, you know, a little nicer.
Some of them were taller and more feathery, you know, and their formation and stuff.
And so but they were all variations on the same theme.
If that makes any sense.
No, yeah, totally.
You know, they were all they you know, but I did find it interesting, like my headband has kind of my L.A.
has kind of lighter leaves.
The NYCD from Bald Eagle and another one both had very pale leaves like that.
Interesting.
So there was a couple like all these different expressions of similar stuff coming out of the same lines.
But then there was one that but then there was another one that that mine and the dog and one other diesel had very dark, dark, dark.
Yeah.
Like olive colored, not lime at all.
And some of them stayed pure green all the way through.
Some of them variegated and some of them did that weird leaf death thing like I was talking about.
Makes sense.
All those different traits from, you know, Super Scouts, you know.
So that was interesting, too.
And so, you know, I don't know.
I mean, people get all uptight about like everyone's everyone's sour now, like it goes back to the mid 90s.
It's the original.
It's the best one.
It's the this people are attaching their name to it and trying to sell them for high dollar.
The good thing for me, at least, is that despite all that chaos, it's better weed generally than what's been popular lately.
Yeah, I think it's only.
Huh?
I agree.
So it's only an improvement, you know, over all these other purples and all these different things that have been running.
Not that I'm against purple by any means, but just like the the purple only era, you know.
Yeah.
It's is Choco is not chocolate diesel.
Somebody just commented that chocolate diesel is different.
Choco is a dude from the forums that got a cut of sour diesel named after of him because of how he traded it, I believe.
Was that accurate?
Oh, no, he got it.
He got named after him because it was the one I kept referring people to go look to.
That was it.
It was just, oh, it was you.
Yeah, I was my dumb ass added another name to sour.
You're welcome.
You're welcome.
Well, anyway, so yeah, he got he was a guy on I see mag.
Yeah.
Right.
And and, you know, he ended up getting a cut of sour diesel named after him.
Yeah.
It's kind of it's kind of the movie.
Yeah, I saw someone said that Amish is a cross of sour and headbanger that come on, guys.
Come on.
I mean, there's a lot of different stories about these different.
I mean, that one headbangers like five years old.
Amish.
Yes.
No, the Amish.
I will.
I will.
All agree with Matt on there.
One hundred percent.
Yeah.
The name Amish from Shroomy far, far beyond.
Far precedes any headbanger existence.
Yeah, it's a little bit off on the ears, which is why I was giggling.
You know, and so, yeah, they there's a there's a whole bit of it where it's cool that there's all this like renewed interest in trying to figure it all out.
Yeah.
Right.
And one of the things that's made diesel cuts a lot more popular, I think, is because they because that strain became so popular for so long, it's almost like the NL five hazes where there's just more Finos of it than almost any other type out there.
Yeah, there's not like I mean, I think, you know, gelato and cookie has a bunch of Finos, obviously.
Right. But sour and sour is up there is like there's a bunch of them.
Yeah. You know, and so it's pretty widespread.
People have access to it, I think, and that helps something gain popularity.
Yeah, definitely.
And then people want to figure out, oh, well, which one is it?
Which one is this?
Which one is that?
Because everybody wants the original real one just in the sense that they think that that one has to be better than all the ones that came after.
Well, yeah, it's the original.
That's it starts out the best and it just loses as it goes down.
Isn't that how breeding works?
It just, you know, sometimes but sometimes things get better, too, you know, so I just wanted to this is another super skunk cross.
This is my blooper skunk, which is the diesel blue bonnet.
But I just wanted to show this because you can see a lot of the sour traits coming through very heavy in it.
Very obviously, it breeds very dominant or the super skunk traits, I should say, which you can see in sour and all the other super skunk types.
Yeah, you can go down grandchildren, great grandchildren when it comes to super skunk.
And if someone's selecting towards those traits, you will still be seeing those traits and often you'll be seeing those same scent profiles and whatnot.
We somebody was asking which there's some spammers in our comments.
Oh, yeah.
Cool.
Someone was asking which one has the dark one, the dark leaves, the cut that I have has dark leaves.
There's a lot of how much you feed it nitrogen to it also.
Yes. And the light source.
So that can that can be like I said before, visually, they can be very hard to tell apart in different people's rooms.
Yeah, because they are very environmentally and spectrum sensitive.
So they perform very differently depending on where they're at and how they're fed.
And, you know, it's interesting, like when, you know, when Pip was at that party and he smoked that ECSD, he was like, dude, that's some of the best I've ever seen it grown.
Right. And it wasn't so much a testament to me knocking it out of the park or anything like that.
It's more of a testament to like sours can be really hard to nail.
Yes, they can. You can make sour super boofy, super fast.
You know, you grow sour and you knock it out of the park and you're so stoked.
And the next three or four times you grow it, it's not nearly as good.
But you didn't change much.
Yeah. And so you don't know why.
So when you really knock it out of the park and you get its full potential, its full buzz, its full nose, everything, you're just like, oh, my God, this is some of the best we'd on earth.
Yeah. And even when you miss, it's still usually pretty good.
But you know that there was better.
Yeah. Especially if you've already had better.
You're like, that's what I mean.
Yeah. You know, you know that, you know, there was better.
Yeah. You know, I don't know.
So let's get into the L.A.
I'm going to show off some of the headband L.A. right now.
All right. So the L.A. is I told that story before as well, but just so people know, the L.A.
is the first headband that I got.
We got it about a year after the diesel.
So we got it in oh, one or so.
And we've had it since.
And it's we used to get sold to sour all over the place.
But as you can see, that is what Matt throwing up.
That's the same greenhouse that that East Coast sour diesel was in.
You can see that that thing throws straight bats compared to the ECSD.
Is that the Malawi or a Durban in the back?
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. There's some sativas in the back over there.
Some head stash along the wall.
There might be some NL five haze.
There might be a Malawi.
There's a Panama, I think, on the far right.
There's a Panama from CSI,
the old cannabinoid in Charlize, Panama.
Yeah, there's there's some that those years, whenever I can,
I like to throw experimental stuff out there and see what happens.
You know, yeah, I like putting plants in the sun if they if you can do that.
So, yeah, that's the lean loves it.
Yeah, I like to peddling, you know, I do.
I like it mixed in with other things more than just straight pure.
Yeah. Stringent terpenelein.
But especially if it comes with a buzz that I like, I can handle it. Yeah.
You know, but that's most things.
So, yeah, that's my that's my headband right there.
Again, I don't know lineage.
It's very it's very sour.
It's very diesel like it's a little different in terms of its buzz.
But it's obviously you can just look at it.
It looks like it's from the same family.
It's bigger yielding, especially in the sun.
And it's it's it's one of my favorites
for a lot of times, a lot of people can't tell the difference.
You know, and a lot of this is our.
Huh? It's a difference between this and what?
Sour. Yeah. OK. That makes sense.
Just like it's like to them, it's like, in fact,
there was a bunch of people that would just call it sour
and then they would come up looking for that sour. Yeah.
And it's mostly because of the buzz, you know.
It has a really great buzz and it has a really great nose.
And so for a long time, when it came to diesel family,
I had that cut and I had that sour diesel cut that you showed way earlier.
And I was super happy with those two things for a long time.
Yeah. You know, there are some of my I mean, I've grown them over
and over and over again in every situation imaginable.
Outdoors, greenhouses like that one indoor.
Outdoors is the biggest pain in the ass because you kind of have to go
till close to November.
In there, I think those pictures were taken probably like October 25th.
Something like that. Not this year.
It was this is a number of years ago now, but that was late October,
right before Halloween. Yeah.
And so they do better sometimes as as as greenhouse plants,
because you really have to get nice weather
to get them to their full end.
They take a while to form out, you know, so there's a lot of times
where like like we just did, like right, right after right after Halloween,
I'm cutting it down. Yeah.
And I try to get as close to Halloween as I can
and even go a little past it if the weather stays nice.
And if you're in a greenhouse,
you're a little more protected from the weather
so you can inch out a few more days.
Right. Yeah, because it doesn't get as cold.
You don't get do and you don't get all that other stuff.
But yeah, that's the
you know, that's the headband.
And those weren't very big plants.
Those were just plants put in 15 gallon pots.
Veg for probably three weeks, four weeks, and then and then they got flipped.
How does she change from greenhouse to indoor?
How does she vary?
You know,
she's changed a lot.
So in the beginning, it didn't really matter where you grew her.
She was a champ.
In fact, there's a lot of old buddies of mine that
changed their whole situation by growing that inside
because you get basically one and a half to two per light.
And that's back in like the old single ended hortolux days. Yeah.
You'd get one and a half to two per light all the time.
No problem. And it was fireweed.
Yeah. And outside she was a little bit more.
She like I said, she was you get good years and bad years.
Right. Because there's a potential on that.
If you don't know the the bud to size ratio going on,
you can get you can get a lot of larf.
Yeah. You can get a lot of almost weed. Right.
And so there was a long time where you were growing weed,
where like there wasn't this like modern hash market like there is today.
So a ton of larf would make your trimmers cry and was also problematic.
Yeah. Right. So you had to know how to trim that thing up.
And I'll say now as she's aged, she likes probably greenhouses the best.
She can still do really well inside, but she doesn't like bulb heat.
Yeah. If that makes any sense.
She's fine with like like like actual nature heat.
But there's something about heat from a lamp.
That she just does not vibe with at all.
And one thing I should I should shout out,
because I have some friends that have tried to grow her.
She eats like a champ.
She is can be really hard, the more she variegates, the hungrier she is.
Interesting. So when she's perfectly healthy,
it's actually really hard to find the variegation on her anywhere.
And if you bloom her when she's heavily variegated,
she won't come out nearly as nice a weed.
And so she needs strong food and she needs calcium,
not so much cow mag, but excess calcium.
You know, you can just put in straight cow without without the mag and she does good.
But but she can be hard to feed.
All the sours can be hard to feed.
You overfeed the sour at the wrong time and you kind of ruined it.
The ECSD doesn't like as much heavy feeding as like that.
That one probably would, like it sounds.
No, and I I didn't I didn't actually like send you those pics,
but from that from that same greenhouse, but the following year,
I have this picture of like probably like 40 or 50 East Coast sourdiesels
growing in front and then my sour growing behind it.
And they're almost done.
And there's like this sea of green with the ECSD.
And then as soon as it hits mine, it's all yellow and brown
because all those big fan leaves are eating themselves and dying.
Yeah. Before before harvest or whatever.
So it's like it's like a line in the greenhouse.
You can clearly see where it starts.
And that's one of the reasons why, like, I think that side by sides are so cool
because to really assure that like people all the time now on IG, especially
they reach out and they want to like identify cuts based off
a couple of pics and something their buddy says. Yeah.
It's really hard to do that with a lot of cuts.
You know, the best case scenario for proving it's real is either
getting it to someone that you hope can identify it
or trying to get the cut from a different source
and growing them side by side and seeing what you can see. Yeah.
You know, so.
You know, they
I got distracted by the comments.
Yeah, me too.
This dude is convinced the headbanger is in that fucking line.
I'm like, fucker, I was there when he was making that stupid ass.
I mean, come on.
So, you know, but that's the thing is, is that as far as diesel goes,
it's been reborn. Yep.
There's new legends. There's new stuff going on.
There's new I mean, even like, you know, there's some that I didn't name
just because I don't even like the people that that attach their name to it.
So I have it. But there's other people that offer seeds of it.
Yeah. BX is of it.
You know. Yeah. Things along those lines.
IBL and. Huh?
Oh, no, there's no IBLs of the L.A.
Kush yet. That's right.
No, no. But of but of but of of Sauer and stuff like that.
There's not even any seed lines of L.A.
out there other than what CSI has released. Yeah.
But the popularity of me talking about it and the fact that he released it
and people found a bunch of fire in especially in the in the
L.A. by Kim D.
L.A. was fire, too.
I got a bunch of that has led to a bunch of people,
you know, clone sellers and various breeders all claiming that they have it
because people like it. Yeah. Yeah.
But I don't think they have it.
Probably not. But it's OK.
You know, it's OK. It's OK to to want.
Yeah, I mean, and there's also a thing, too, where it's like
it's not even like I'm trying to sit on my high horse about it or whatever.
It's just one of those things where it's like when interest and money
comes along and something all of a sudden it appears in places.
Yeah. And especially to people that aren't like particularly concerned
about history or lineage and they're just trying to make a buck.
Sure, they're going to offer it for 500 bucks a clone.
Yeah. Maybe 15 or 20 people bite on it and they make and they make a chunk of money.
Yeah. And all they needed was a Sharpie and a label.
So but yeah, I mean, I think.
Honestly, I don't have any idea if my headband is the real headband
or the first headband or the one from New York, I know we got it as headband in 2001.
We got it since and.
Just having grown it for that long, I would definitely say it's closely related to Sauer.
Yeah. How, whether it's a parent or a sister or a half sister or some, I couldn't tell you.
I don't have definitive proof, but just just looking at all those pics,
you can obviously tell.
And then, you know, if you had a bag of it or whatever it it is.
I mean, some people it's their favorite weed.
It could be diesel bag seed.
It could be any of the number of any up and down the line.
It could be the original.
It could be next to the original.
Could be 90 down.
She variegates like the like the ChemD.
Yeah, that's so weird.
But it makes sense, though, because it's just to me, it's a super skunk trade.
I see it through all different weird super skunks.
Without having to even touch ChemD.
You know, so I almost I've I've I've almost had this thing that like I wondered, like,
you know, I mean, who knows?
But this is really speculation.
But I was like, what if what if ChemD is like an Afghan expression of of dog super skunk?
And the headband is like a sativa expression of dog super skunk.
Definitely possible.
Definitely, you know, within the family.
I'm not saying it's the only thing in either one.
I just throwing it out there is like when I look at them and I look at how things grow and I look at like leaf similarities and stuff like that, they're obviously closely related in some way.
It's just how. Yeah.
But the most important thing is to me, like that sour and that L.A.
are two of my all time favorite.
They're probably in my top five.
I could smoke them all year, every day.
I really enjoy them a whole bunch.
And I like quite a few of the other diesels, too.
I'm not trying to put mine on a pedestal or anything like that.
What do you think about people who qualify diesels as roadkill skunk?
Do you think that they are potentially in the same scent profile?
Do you think what's your thoughts on that?
I would agree.
I think diesel.
I think I think when you get that fuel nose, I think that's only like a couple degrees away from skunk nose.
Yeah, it's got the same like it's got the same like nose crinkle.
Like, is this offensive?
You know, bright, strong.
I actually think that that sour and diesel family is modern.
Skunk. Yeah, I think it's the modern skunk family that survived and we just we're hunting for this thing that like mostly exists.
And I'm going to make you qualify this again, because you always say this.
You say it's a modern skunk family.
Do you mean modern skunk one family?
Do you mean modern Afghan family by skunk or do you mean by the scent profile?
The way the doesn't grow like I mean, I mean, modern.
So to me like it, I actually probably think like this could get me in trouble, too.
But I think it's like I think it's like I think sour diesel is like ancient skunk, but improved.
And what I mean by that is it's like imagine if instead of breeding it towards citrus and floral and grapes and all that, you bred it towards gas and fuel and headband aromas and weird nose crinkle and sour.
Right. And but we've never seen that in skunk one.
Huh? But we've never seen that.
Definitely not pure.
No, no.
I mean, I think you know, I think he I think he intentionally bred away from that.
And I also don't think that this is pure skunk.
You know, I think it's got chem.
It's obviously got some chem in it.
And that's where and I think that's where the power, some of the power and some of the added density and stuff like that comes from.
So I just think you tend to think it's more skunk one based as opposed to the Afghan tea base.
For most, I don't know if I would say so.
I mean, I don't know.
I don't know if I would say that I.
But I also don't like, well, I mean, to be I didn't I didn't send you this pic either, but that but our same friend, Bald Eagle, he had this Colombian strain.
Yeah, I remember that.
Remember, I lost those in the fire.
Yeah, I have a picture of the headband right next to that Colombian.
And they're not the same, but man, what did they look related?
See, to me, when I look at like greenhouse plants and outdoor plants, they all kind of look the same.
I don't have that trained eye, so it's hard for me.
You have a lot more experience in the greenhouse, seeing the variation between plants and stuff.
So I think it would be hard for someone who doesn't have that like me to be able to see that that similarity past.
It all looks kind of similar.
Yeah, I mean, that's one of the benefits of growing in Mendocino County and the two that teen era was that you got to do indoor.
You got to do light depths.
You got to do outdoor greenhouse.
You got to do all these different kinds.
And so for someone like me who keeps a lot of the same strains around for a long time, that means you get a lot of different expressions of the same strain.
It's and you really you really get to see how it performs in different conditions.
It's super important to have that.
I think I lack that for greenhouse and outdoor, but it's one of those things that I'd like to eventually at some point in my life catch up on.
Because I think it's super important to be able to have that.
I almost feel bad now because I got distracted and I could I could have dug on my phone and given you various pics from inside and different things and shown you how many how many different kooky ways they actually look.
Yeah, I mean, expressions.
The most interesting part to me as I learn more about it and how plastic these these plants are.
So if you want to take it a step back, though, right?
Yeah. Is that until I saw those Columbians.
Right. Yeah.
It clicked something in me because before there was this aspect of like.
You know, the Columbians that you would see would be these big, huge, crazy, stretchy things I'd never really seen, like too many, like somewhat bred Columbians in a certain direction.
And when I saw that, I was like, oh, so obviously in skunk, there's a Columbian element.
Right. What if sour diesels and this headband and stuff like that?
Are you talking about skunk one?
Yeah, 100 percent.
OK, OK, because when I think skunk, I think Afghan Afghans, because that's what the right turn.
Well, I mean, so I think to be to be fair, right, just to take it even a further step back is that it seems like no matter what story of sour diesel or headband or anything like that, you believe
that it was a merger of the chem family.
Right, with the with the skunk family and whether you believe that was the MSS cut or you believe it was the RFK cut or you believe it was the the DNL cut.
Right. Yeah.
Whatever whatever whatever tale of origin you want to lean on, they all seem to agree that there was this blending of chem family and some kind of 90 skunk family.
Yeah. Right.
And so what happens when you blend those things?
That's what I think all these different diesels are showing us.
OK, in a way, if I had if I had to get get my guess on it, too, and there's some that lean more Afghan and there's some that lean more sativa.
Yeah, because it's in there.
Right. There's probably there's probably more Afghan than sativa.
But like you look, there's a reason why really good diesel takes, you know, in a lot of people in a lot of cases, 11 or 12 or 13 weeks.
Yeah. Right.
That's pretty well, there's a lot of Afghans that run 11 to 12 weeks to go.
No, that's true. There's a lot.
But the reason I was asking was because recently, you know, I've been digging through the old high times a lot in the old magazines and all the homegrown.
So what I've been doing is going through the old TMQs and I've been going through up until about 1985, going through all those and trying to figure out where was the first time people were using the term skunk for cannabis?
Because like we kind of know that like the term skunky started hitting heavy in the Afghanis.
But I wanted to see if anybody was referring to Mexicans or Colombians or any of that other stuff at any point before the 80s.
And it never happened, never happened in any of these magazines or any of that up until they started referring to Afghanis as skunk.
You know, then you started getting red hair skunk and, you know, Afghani skunk or that skunk bud Kentucky skunk.
But it took up until that.
So I don't even know if any of the Colombians or Mexicans truly had that kind of scent profile to be adding to it to make a skunk plant.
I mean, the thing is, is that so if you take, let's say, for instance, that just for the sake of pure argument with with speculation, right?
That the the headband or the sour diesel or something like that is a combination of some blend of super skunk and some blend of camp.
Yeah.
Right.
If you just take that right there, then from the super skunk side, you have Colombian, Mexican, some kind of Afghan and then Afghan tea.
Yes.
Right.
And then from the chem dog side, you have no fucking idea, but you have some kind of some kind of weird old Afghan mix.
Yeah, probably.
Right.
And so it's more Afghan than it is than it is Sativa.
But that doesn't mean that some of them couldn't have a tall, leggy growth rate from some of that Colombian or some of that Mexican.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
I that's all.
That's all I'm saying.
I was more referring to the scent profile of skunk that most people identify with skunk like that.
But even if even if you consider what I just said is true, then sour diesel would have the Afghan that was in skunk one.
The Afghan tea, the maple leaf that Neville mixed it with.
Right.
And adding the chem.
And the chem, which to me and this is what I'm bringing up right now so people can see the illustration of it, I think is also super skunk.
So it'd be doubling up on the Afghan tea if that was the case.
Again, I point to my little dog tongues, the fact that just a pure super skunk without anything else, no chem in it does the same kind of leaf traits, you know?
Yeah.
So that would be almost if that is the case, if I'm correct on that, it would almost be like a doubling up on that Afghan tea, reinforcing that.
And, you know, and since we don't know the origin of the chem at all.
You know, and we're not even 100 percent sure what the you know, we don't know anything about the origin of the of the maple leaf either, other than it came to Neville labeled Maple Leaf Maple Leaf and he named some phenix.
Yeah.
So there's a lot of mystery in there.
But.
What I will say, generally speaking about sour is that it seems like it has a sativa frame, most of them.
Right.
And then it stretches, but that it has some more.
It varies how much Indica influences in the buds.
Some of them are pretty chunky.
Some of them are a little bit more feathery and a little bit more layered.
Right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And it has some density and some potency from the Afghan and it has, you know, the the the stretch and, you know, some of the buzz from the sativa and it blends in all these different weird ways.
Yeah.
And it just depends on because honestly, that that New York City diesel, I actually told you, like when you when you look at it growing, it was very similar in growth in terms of the way the plant looked.
Yeah.
To my headband cut.
Except for it was about three or four feet shorter.
Oh, wow.
So it went like squat and wide.
Right, where mine kind of went big and tall and floppy, but like as far as leaf shape and and and, you know, serrations and leaf color and the way the bud formed, there was quite a few similarities.
Yeah.
It just looked like a much more Afghan version of the same thing.
It stayed shorter and squatter and wider, and mine wanted to get tall and throw like big forearms everywhere.
Yeah, I want to grow bald eagles someday.
That one looked pretty cool.
It did.
I don't know if he has it anymore.
And I lost it in the fire.
So I mean, us fires killing.
Yeah, I mean, starting and starting in 2017 on.
I mean, I got evacuated three times between 2017 and 2020.
It's fucking nuts.
From three, three different fires.
And so obviously when you're in, you're evacuated, it's really hard to care for your mother.
Yeah.
From a distance.
You know, losing my hair.
If that happened.
Could have had an effect.
There could be some graying that went on or whatever else.
I mean, luckily I share and I backed a lot of stuff up from different people, but I did lose some things in that era that I have not gotten back.
This is a good question that you can actually comment on because I think you're working on this.
How about epigenetics affecting one cut to acclimate into two different environments over a period of time and reunite to be judged as being different or the same?
I am doing that right now, so we don't know.
But I will say that, you know, CSI and I have a little experiment going right where we gave each
other our oldest sour diesel cuts and we gave each other our chem dog cuts and we gave each other our chem D cuts.
And we're we're going to see a if we think they're all the same.
And B, you know, are there differences?
We're actually we're absolutely positive, actually, that the chem dog cut is the same, but they've been separated for, you know, I mean, I think he got it
in 06.
Yeah, you know, so they've been completely separated and never exchanged for the last 17 years between the two of us.
Yeah, I'm fascinated by this because I've always had that theory about acclimation and stuff.
And I'm very interested to see how plastic the chem 91 cut is.
And I also have another theory because chem 91, even in the S1s, it's pretty freaking uniform.
So it's probably, you know, either bag seed, bag seed unintentionally self or a work line, whatever it is.
So I have something interesting.
That plastic between the two.
I have something interesting I could add to that.
Yeah, which is not it's not definitive by any level.
Right. But when him and I traded, right, he runs a pretty simple organic setup these days.
Right. Yeah.
And it's it's, you know, most of his most of his blooms are geared towards seed making, which is obviously different.
Right. But we obviously veg different.
We were having a combo last week, I think, and we were talking about different methods.
And I do something right now that I that some people call synganic, right, which is that especially in my mom's or whatever.
And I've been traveling and stuff.
It's been easier for me to blend some organic and some salt together.
Yeah. And use that to grow my plants.
Right. So, huh?
Heresy. I know.
I know. I mean, for you, it's probably that I used to get so much hate mail.
Because, yeah, yeah. You know, shit.
You're like, oh, my God, give me the salt, you know, life, bro.
But so I grew a blend of I grew a blend of salt and organic amendments and stuff like that inside.
Right. And so I traded him some stuff and he hit me up and he was like, man.
And I was like, what? And he's like, your plants smell way stronger and veg than mine do.
Yep. That's cool.
Which I found was pretty interesting.
Yeah. You know, we started so we started chatting about what we were feeding them, you know, and, you know, and when he was growing flour for market.
Right. He used to do all these different, you know, he's do all these teas and all these amendments and all these extra special things all the time to get it just exactly perfect.
And now he's you know, he's got he's got a decent amount of stuff going on.
So he's like he tries to keep it simple.
Yeah. And he grows really nice weed.
But it's like he you know, he's vegging organically with a lot of dry amendments.
And I'm using some of that and then some salt and he was he straight up was like, every plant you gave me is more pungent in my mom room than my own shit.
In veg. Which I thought was kind of an interesting observation.
Yeah, I don't know. I don't know what that's going to lead to or anything else.
But it was, you know.
Yeah, it was interesting that he already had that kind of feedback on it without even blooming it.
He was like, your plants smelled stronger.
You know, in veg, I noticed it when I brush them and when I touch them and when I work with them and then I go and I work on the same strain that's mine and it's more muted.
Whatever that means.
And that interesting.
So we haven't figured out.
Well, I mean, what I think it means personally is that the plant wants what it wants.
Right. And if you give the plant everything that it wants as far as food.
Right. Then it's able to do all the various processes it wants to do and reach its potential.
Yep.
And I think a lot of times with organic, especially indoor organic, you're not actually giving the plant everything that it wants all the time.
Yeah.
It's because because it's like I kind of look at it.
This is like might be blasphemy for people or whatever.
But I kind of look at it like organic gives the plant a lot of things that it likes.
But sometimes it struggles to give the plant exactly what it needs.
Yeah.
Because when you give a plant really, really high quality and I don't mean Athena or anything like that, but like like something like Canada or cutting edge or somebody that's actually decent.
If you give them really high quality salts, the plant has to do nothing but absorb those.
And it's a lie that people talk about where if you use any salt at all, you'll kill all of your beneficials.
Yeah.
People don't know this, but like or some people don't know this.
But the plant absorbs salt through its roots.
That's what it absorbs.
And you can't tell the difference between a salt from like cutting edge or Canada and a salt that's organically derived.
Oh, my God. You're going to make so many people so upset.
It is true.
It's true.
One's superior.
I'm not saying that one's superior to the other because.
No, but it is.
What I'm saying is, is that what I'm saying is, is that like when you when you bathe a plant in a nutrient that has salts in it, it's almost like you're giving it a lot of nutrients.
It's almost like an IV.
The plant has to do nothing.
It can just as long as the pH and the temperature is right, it can just absorb that food right up into it.
Where in organics.
Oh, man, when in organics, he agrees those same salts and those same things are bound up in like more complicated chains that have to be broken down by microbes and bacteria and stuff to release the salts.
Yeah. Doesn't mean that organics not going to do other stuff like enzymes and and a whole like soil food web and mycelium and different things that like.
So there's all this complexity to it.
But essentially, it's really, really, really hard to get a perfect organic mix indoors in pots, especially small pots.
Yeah. Much easier to do in beds.
It's much easier to do in large amounts of soil than small.
So when you have a bunch of moms, you know, like CSI does, you're a lot of times you're growing them in anywhere from four inch to two gallon pots.
Yeah. I found in the in smaller pots, it's easier to be synganic and have a bunch of and have a bunch of organic and then still feed a light PPM or EC, whatever you choose to use salt base.
Yeah. And then that just kind of gives.
And to me, the goal of an old mom, especially some of these things are twenty five, 30 years old, is like keeping them as healthy as possible.
Yeah. These are things that are annuals that should be dying.
Yeah. Well, you know, as Matt will tell you, like once you get a plant unhealthy, sometimes it can be a real struggle to get it back to being fully healthy.
Sometimes there's some cuts I've never seen go back to what they were, no matter how healthy you try to get them.
You know, now, you know what happens to who is that when it is true that that salts will kill some organics, but that's mostly at like high seas and stuff like that.
If you're feeding really low or moderate, it's not going to really kill your beneficial bacteria or do anything like that because the organic is producing salts, too.
And a lot of times when people go into the store and they buy bottles of organic nutrient, like let's say you're going to buy some kind of like some kind of blend.
But the reason why that shit costs money, the reason why that shit costs money is because they already brewed it and made some of those big like organic chains break down.
And some of those organically derived salts are in the mix waiting to be used already.
Yeah. It's not like you just have to like, you know, dust, bone meal or blood meal or something like that and like wait for them to break it down.
Yeah. Most organic liquid amendments are just people breaking it down for you ahead of time so that it's easier and more readily available.
Yep. And easier to apply, you know, but some stuff you put in your soil, it might take two, three months to even break down.
Yeah. And what rate does it break down?
And what if your plant wants more of it than you have to offer?
I'm not trying to get off on some kind of nutrition tangent, but I will say, and this can tie into sour diesel, that I'll tell you a funny story from my friend John who runs Cutting Edge.
OK. Right. There's this product he came out, which is a carbohydrate product.
We have some potassium in it that's called Sugary.
Yeah. Right. It's a carbohydrate based sugar product.
So he's got these clients back in the East Coast that grow a ton of sour diesel and they call him up furious.
Your shit ruined our diesel.
Yeah. What do you mean it ruined our diesel?
How did it ruin our diesel? Your shit ruined our it made our diesel taste sweet.
Right. Yeah.
So they're all pissed off because to them they have to have the notes.
Yeah. So he actually made a product called Sour D.
Right. Which is the exact same product as Sugary, but instead of extracting the carbohydrates and sugar from sweet fruits.
Yeah. He extracted them from tart, sour apples.
Interesting. And that made it.
And then those and then those people grew it using that and the sour flavor came back.
So even even the development of the nose could potentially be based on the type of food you're using and what it balances.
Then we just say that when elements are analyzed, whether organic or salt, it will still be the same thing.
Right. Exactly. But so those those that's very true.
But that's the 17 macro and micro elements.
OK, that's not all of it.
Different types of sugars that are just sugars.
Or two different carbs change.
Yeah, maybe maybe the sugars and the carbs like feed different bacteria.
No, that's a good point. Yeah.
You know, that's a good point.
Who knows? I don't know.
I'm not I'm not saying that that's not a story that has a definitive ending.
Yeah. It's just an antidotal story of like, you know,
he changed up his nutrient a little bit and it changed the flavor profile of the same strength.
Yeah. I remember botanic care offered like grape sweet, like all these different kinds of sweets.
I always wondered if that was legit, like berry and like, yeah, no.
In the beginning, it was just a lot of it.
And then they came out with berry sweet.
And yeah, they came out with a number of different ones, you know.
And so I I'm not I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to say that.
You know, and so I haven't actually done that experiment with the sugary or anything like that myself,
but I will say that I have some friends that grow in living soil.
And they have some similar strains that that other friends I have run that grow in a very different style.
Yeah. And the the living soil stuff is is overall much sweeter.
And, you know, much more biology, just I'm not even talking about.
So I just mean like the weed that comes out of it.
OK, you know, like it's it's it has like it has like a sweeter like some of those some of those like other flavor profiles aren't pronounced.
And then I have a friend who grows the exact same stuff in salt and they get a much different flavor profile than the living soil people.
Yeah, I definitely believe that for sure.
So that's that's kind of what I'm saying is like I'm I'm not going to sit here on this episode and try to like tell you anything definitive about why.
I'm just saying that certain strains are sensitive enough that even what style you're growing and what you're feeding them could potentially impact the chain of things that occur that make the nose that you perceive.
Yeah. That's what I'm saying.
And you recognize you recognize this guy yet?
The one we haven't touched on that cut.
This is the day wrecker, the one you haven't flowered yet.
Wait. Yeah, is that is that what goes by the name of the original day wrecker?
This is what she looks like.
Yep. Yep. I have that.
I have I have had it for, I don't know, a number of years now.
Right. And I've never actually noticed the little dog tongue.
So I don't have any. I noticed the little dog tongues and the foxtails has a lot of sour traits.
He's a no, that's interesting.
I have not seen that picture of it.
I like a lot. Some of these are gray skulls and some are T.H.C.
I'm sorry for getting his name off top my head, but he deserves credit.
They're great pictures. Yeah.
So, yeah, that that one is that one's also.
That one's been percolating in the collection for a while, I'm hoping going to bloom it this winter.
That one, you know, Matt gave to me, hopefully labeled original diesel.
Yes, that's correct.
And I don't know any history behind it by that.
Some people call it the day wrecker.
It's hard. It's a hard one to trace back.
It really is. I'm going to grow it next to my other diesel family cuts and see what I think.
It certainly grows a little differently.
It's a little bushier to me, and I think I think Pip would Pip agrees on this one.
It's one of the more potent of the diesel families, one of the most potent like it is.
It is for us. It's it is narcotic and shit.
It's a little strong.
It's a little strong.
I would say it draws a little strong end.
Yeah, that draws from the Afghani end very heavily.
How many in the how many days does it take?
I mean, I know Pip would say 84, but how many days does it take?
Yes, 70, 77, right in between there.
Right in that same range.
Yeah, right in that same range.
So, yeah, no, that's one.
I have a great reader, too.
It's a great reader.
Yeah.
I think not just catching a lag, a bunch of cool discussions going on.
I might.
You might get a little bit.
Am I here?
That's there you go.
You're back.
I'm back.
There's a bunch of cool comments about nutrition.
I've thought about doing like a solo show recording about about like about nutrition
for a while, I just haven't actually pulled it together.
But it's like to me, it's like a fascinating topic because I've grown
for at different points in my career.
I've grown the exact same strain side by side.
And I've been able to do that for a while.
I've been able to do that for a while.
I've been able to do that for a while.
I've grown the exact same strain side by side under same same everything, but feeding them different.
What do you guys think about a not so story hour show, too?
I think it's a good I've been trying to push him to do it because he's he's very good, like an audio book voice, like with not being interrupted by me saying, yeah, all the time.
And I know people get annoyed by that, but we're trying to continue the conversation and make it not, you know, but I'm looking forward to it.
So prod him, poke him.
It's it's my it's my fault.
I should have done it, but I haven't done it.
You'll get to it.
I mean, I could say that, but but nutrition is something that is it affects sour and diesel cuts a bunch.
Yeah. And it affects a lot of strains, a bunch.
And it's one of those things where it's the closest thing to religion that we growers get, where they're convinced that whatever they're using, whatever they're feeding, especially organic and K&F and living soil types that they have stumbled upon the word of God.
Absolutely.
And so if you try to talk to them about what you what you've experienced, sometimes it can be here.
It can be, you know, I mean, they can't burn you at the stake, but they might want to.
They definitely want to.
That's for sure.
Yeah. There could be some Salem witch trials or something like that, because, you know, there's I think salts get a bad name in certain regards.
And I think organics, you know, is poorly understood in a lot of ways.
And I'm not going to hijack the whole show, but it is it is interesting, much more so than almost any strain I've grown or any or any family of strains that I've grown.
If you start playing around with food and light spectrum.
You will get way different results with diesels.
Yeah, definitely.
You know, you really will.
Like I've grown, you know, I've grown them under different light spectrums, metal halides, high pressure, sodiums, double ended ceramics.
You start changing the food.
That's something that really responds to changes.
And that's what makes it so hard to identify, too.
Under ceramic metal halides, I remember it almost had like a more cushy type, but it wasn't Fox tail.
It looked almost delicate, small, cushy.
It was really weird for a sour.
The ECSD cut chocolate.
Somebody was just saying in the comments, I'll just bottles or poison.
That's a bunch of bullshit.
You know, bottles are just the bottles are just a form to hold a liquid.
Right. And, you know, if you get like a really high quality hydroponic nutrient, right, especially one that's made out of high quality minerals.
Those minerals are just pure forms of like the what the plant needs.
You know, salts get a bad name because cheap salts have heavy metals and have other bullshit and are derived from things that aren't that nice.
Yeah. But really, really high grade salts.
It's literally just like, you know, it's there's minerals that the plants are absorbing and they have them in this order and they get them from a really clean source.
And there you go. You know, it looks like we made it an hour and forty five minutes in talking about diesel.
Oh, my God. And it's lovely components.
Well, there's also something. So, like I said in the beginning, a nice argument for your Thanksgiving weekend.
Yeah. You know, people will probably hate me for saying certain things about this evening.
Tonight. Sometimes I say the most innocuous things about diesel and I get hate mail because I poked a hole in somebody's story.
So it's not to tell anybody that they're wrong.
It's just this is just our opinion.
Yeah. And not always poking holes in someone.
So, you know, I mean, it's what you do.
So I'm going to give a shout out real quick to me.
Let me stand up so I can get this in the camera.
Wake Brewing. Go check them out.
Great craft brewing company.
They hooked it up for Thanksgiving.
Amazing Thanksgiving brews.
We have our sale going on and right.
It's dot com. We are restocking.
We just restocked like tonight.
I should have had it up earlier.
The Santa Cruz wreck, which is the Blue Dream set or Santa Cruz Blue Dream crossed to Arcadia train wreck.
We just restocked that restocked some smell boat stuff and use coupon code Black Friday 50 percent.
Oh, I'm sorry. 30 percent off or coupon code Fem 50 and you get 50 percent off the Fem spray.
You got anything not so.
No, I just hope everyone had a happy Thanksgiving or at least is enjoying the time off.
Harvest is mostly through for most people and, you know, trimming is either well underway or paused.
So I hope everybody survived and I hope everybody has a nice holiday.
Yeah. See you next week.
Thanks for showing up, everyone.
Thanks to everyone who threw in some super chats.
We appreciate you. Lots of love.
Peace.
Want more Breeder Syndicate?
Be sure to check out our Patreon by going to Google and searching Breeder Syndicate Patreon.
We have a secret discord where we are available at most times and interact daily.
There are a lot of perks to be had there.
So check it out.
Need seeds? Check out RiotSeeds.com where you can get our seeds and our reversal spray for making your own Feminize.
