He hates it when I do that. He hates it. He's like trying to sleep next to me like this motherfucker.
This loud ass music.
That was Harry J All-Stars. Old skinhead reggae stuff.
Putting Bob Marley to fucking shame. Anyways, here we go.
So I'll let people join before I get started.
The clowns. Yeah, it can sound a little bit like baby elephant walk a little bit sometimes.
So where this all started last night was I was looking up original diesel.
And you know, I had this old clone, had it for a long time.
Lost it during the Mooney thing. Matt from Elite Cannabis sent it back.
And it's called original diesel. It's been the original diesel that I used for the original diesel BX1.
Lots of projects. And the other day someone asked me, yo, what's the source on it?
You know, I'm not sure what the source is on this.
I remember Shroomy's diesel being listed as original diesel, but Shroomy's diesel is different.
Oh, thank you dear. There we go.
So I started digging around and what I found was fucking crazy.
And I realized, you know what? People that don't really have a long experience in this
and when they actually go try to look up something, they need to know who is who,
how to really sift through the bullshit. So I decided I would go do that.
Yes, the image is good. Let's see.
You think Mr. Nice Super Silver Haze is still the original parents used in the Sensi Silver Haze?
Now Shanti says yes.
I don't know. I don't know.
By the way, for the people joining and everything, I said that I would give out a coupon.
I think this is it. Oh yeah, no, it's this.
Here's the coupon code for 35% off everything except the spray.
It's PrePre420.
Is there anywhere to get authentic Super Silver Haze?
Is there anywhere to get authentic Super Silver Haze?
Old People's Collections is about it, I would say, man.
Because the Super Silver Haze coming out of Shanti's shit is nothing like
what you would expect as old Super Silver Haze.
Granted, you could go find old Jack Caroline's. You'd get similar phenotypes.
I would say Mango Haze from Mr. Nice would be a good one.
There's the coupon.
I might try to archive it on YouTube. I'm not sure if I'm going to do it, but we'll see.
But as I go through this, I'm not going to be taking more questions on other stuff.
Just so I can stay focused, I'm going to be putting this up.
Try to keep your questions focused on what I'm presenting in this.
Because I'm fucking ADHD.
It's really hard to keep focused on anything anyways.
Goddamn this fucking phone.
Let's see.
Wake up, druggie!
Crish!
People make it no sense.
Let's see.
Where do I start with the stupidity?
Where do I start with the stupidity?
Now that would be the Jeezel stuff.
Nyah, nyah, nyah, nyah.
Nyah, nyah, nyah, nyah.
Anyways, so this is where we start.
Boom.
And unfortunately I can't shrink this, so I'm going to have to...
Let's see. I'll bring some stuff up on my computer.
Because this is obviously not going to work great if I can't fucking shrink it.
So you guys can get an idea of what I'm looking for.
So, the first thing I type in...
Would be about original diesel.
Let's see. Go to Google and type in...
Original diesel strain.
That would be what most people would do it.
So, some of the first stuff I'm seeing...
Is that Dr. Underground is the breeder and original breeder of diesel.
Well that's fucking weird, right?
Dr. Underground, from what I know about Dr. Underground, he's a British dude.
He's a fucking British dude.
I don't think he was the one who bred original diesel.
So, now this is SeedFinder.
That'll give you your answer on whether this is a good source or not.
No, it's not.
Second thing I see...
Original sour diesel comes up.
And that's not original sour diesel.
That's not what sour diesel looks like either.
And that's from Swerve.
So, thank you Swerve for sticking bullshit up in here.
Let's see what else we got.
Nyeh, nyeh, nyeh, yeh...
Okay.
Let me find this one.
So, we get into THC Farmer now.
THC Farmer, a lot of times, like when it comes to diesels, chems, OGs...
You're gonna find a lot of topics, conversations on diesels, chems, OGs, stuff like that.
Specific cuts.
And a lot of people that pretty much think that they know every fucking thing about cannabis there.
Let's see, THC Farmer.
Especially during a certain era.
Original Daywrecker Diesel.
This is the...
This is the...
This is the...
Hold on, I can't read shit.
Let me put it back here.
This is the original Diesel Daywrecker thread.
You can see it up in the corner.
On the farm.
Someone says, I'm a bit confused here.
When I try to find info on the strain, it comes up saying it's the same cut as diesel number one.
Headband.
Underdog.
Daywrecker.
But I was told they're different.
If anyone can clear this up, that would be cool.
And that's a valid question.
That's a valid question, man.
A lot of people say that.
That it's Daywrecker, Diesel number one, headband, that they're all the same cut.
So.
Then they give...
Someone comes back, someone named Indica.
Tilda.
Whatever that whoop sign is.
Tor.
Don't know who this person is.
I found this in my archives.
I hope it helps some.
So.
This is where someone first brings up in this thread.
The Grateful Dead show quotes.
About Deer Creek Amphitheater.
About Juan Kenobi.
AKA Joe Brand.
Fucking.
And talk about P-Bud.
Chem-Dog.
That whole thing.
How many seeds were popped.
How many seeds were labeled what.
And.
But yeah.
It still doesn't get down to the.
Answer.
So it lists, you know, all the Chem-Dog crosses.
Original Diesel.
Here you go.
Also known as Diesel number one, headband, Daywrecker, Diesel, underdog.
Came from a cross of 91 Chem-Dog.
Crossed to.
Mass Super Skunk.
Crossed to Northern Lights.
Done by a guy known as Weasel.
Hmm.
Okay.
So that's.
That's probably been the most common.
And.
Answer.
When referring to this.
Up until a little bit later.
Up until a little bit later.
Now.
Down a little bit further.
JJ New York has been working on a Chem-Dog D based seed line for several years now.
He started crossing a Chem-Dog D to Sensi Afghani.
Number one.
After thoroughly testing both Sensi's Afghani and Sensi's Hindu Kush to determine which was more stable and would be better for the initial cross.
JJ then did a back cross known as Double Dog.
Several Finos of this.
Blah, blah, blah.
Down under trade.
Trade Dog.
Nothing to do with Diesel.
This is all to do with Chem-Dog D.
Reservoir Seeds.
Res-Dog of Reservoir Seeds recently released a Chem-Dog cross.
Or several Chem-Dog crosses as part of his Trinity.
Trinity.
Charity options.
The crosses included Chem-Dog D.
Crossed to Sensi's Hindu Kush.
And Snow-Dog crossed to Sensi's Hindu Kush.
Chem-Dog D.
Sour D.
IBL.
And this all goes back to the Chem 101 thread by my friend Hyann Lonesome.
So he did what I think is probably the best compendium of answers that could be given at that time.
And then someone quoted him in this.
And mad props to Hyann Lonesome for trying to dig through all that bullshit and put the most common consensus answers out there during those years.
He gives himself a real hard time because he knows that a lot of things have changed over the years.
But for the time it's still pretty magical that someone could put all that into a nice area.
He goes through the Chem-Dog crosses being OG, Sour Diesel, All This Is Correct, Super Snow Dog, Diesel, Bubble Chem, Dog Days, Chem-D Peeba and stuff like that.
Alright.
So is that the answer though?
Is that the answer that is just, what is it?
Chem 91, Mass Super, Northern Lights.
Well, read on.
Quote from Green Thumb Danny on THC Farmer.
Yeah, D9 brother.
Diesel Day Wrecker headband all the same shit.
Slap whatever handle you like on her.
Boo!
I see my old buddy Estartes on here.
Estartes was actually one of the first people to pass me the white.
Really cool dude.
He passed me the white, DJ's Flow, DJ's Blueberry.
Not a lot of people remember his name but he's a really good dude.
There's a fake headband going around the club scene aka 707 headband and this is correct.
It's a Sour Diesel OG cross by all accounts.
Not the same lineage as the Indy posted above.
Brandon is obsessing over this.
Alright.
Look for AJ's cut on, oh god, I looked for AJ's cut on THC Farmer.
That is not worth navigating through.
Let's see.
As far as I know the real headband underdog is closely held and not in the club scene currently.
And that is correct.
Estartes injects some nice info.
Okay.
Then we have my buddy True Grid on here.
It's funny because he messaged earlier.
Damn funny this thread popped up today.
I've been looking for day record info for a couple days.
That or maybe I get stoned or see it on here.
Forget it was on here and then search more.
Anyone make any S1's along the way that still float around or is it a locked up clone only?
So he was on the same search in 2009 trying to find info about that.
And he goes under the name Los S1's.
Really good guy, really smart guy.
He's been on the boards a long time.
So he he asked like after I posted that I was going to do this.
He was like, oh great.
Is it going to be a lot of people saying what they think and a lot of bullshit?
And yep.
Alright.
So let me scroll down.
Now a person named DaFarmer.
No, Lumpa did not have the real headband.
Every site I get on there's a real headband.
I'm not going to go into detail on that.
But I'm going to go into the real headband.
Every site I get on there's always some stupid uneducated debate on the Chemdog genetics.
This is the first time I truly feel as if someone has done their research.
I commend you brother Indicator.
We appreciate it.
Okay, so I'm going to keep scrolling down and then there are some quotes about
this the guaranteed original Chemdog
with Skunk VA cut which Skunk VA cut is the original Chem 91.
It's got the best provenance out of everyone.
See that was a guy named Reaper.
Then there's someone showing off their boof and then someone showing headband.
But basically it all takes this weird curve into the headband realm, right?
Okay, let's see.
Let's see one second here.
And then we go to Chemdog's original diesel.
So we're going to go to a different thread because this one is already done.
That's all the info you're going to get there.
Let's see Chemdog's original diesel headband.
That should take me straight to the thread.
Let's see. Yeah, here it is.
So this is the one that I went through the most and I thought it was worth showing the most.
Let me see what we got.
The blind leading the deaf is exactly right.
If Jaha Hoover's profile is still in there, I think he did a thread of AJC.
Jaha Hoover is an OJD.
I'll go through this.
I actually kept pictures because neither of those guys deserve to be mentioned on anything about anything.
They're fucking retards.
All right, here we go.
I gave OJD a lot more credit than I should have because he's just been around a long time.
I figured he wouldn't be a fucking retard by now, right?
But I digress.
And then someone says original diesel gives the same quote also known as diesel one headband day wrecker underdog came from a cross of 91 Chemdog mass super sensei Northern Lights done by a guy known as weasel.
Now what they didn't know back then is that weasel would eventually come out and talk.
He speaks and he's around.
He's on Instagram.
It's not looking so good for old weasel.
Weasel can't keep his story straight twice and a lot of this.
I don't know.
It's there's been there's been quite a few different quotes from him since then anyways, and I don't know if it's a matter of.
I'm going to block out half because he's fucking getting on my nerves.
Let's see.
There we go.
No.
Weasel has made several different quotes.
I don't know if it's attributed to age.
Whether whether it's.
It's being stoned.
I don't know but you can't get the same story right twice.
So that's a problem, right?
All right.
So let's go ahead and go through the farm and we're going to see more about this original diesel.
Here we go.
Venom 818
I've seen many dispensaries, but I'm not sure it's a Chemdog cut.
Impressive options say where they sourced it.
The original D and then says here's here's our buddy swerve.
Here's our buddy swerve.
The original diesel cut going around a SoCal is Shroomy's original diesel.
It's good, but not the real cut.
So we have swerve chiming in with some info there.
Thank you swerve.
And then venom 818 responds.
Thanks for the input swerve.
Do you know where I can get some seeds or a cut in pure form?
Swerve has now put himself as a an expert in this area and people are asking him for cuts and
info on seeds.
Why not?
And then we have winter who says top dog seeds just had a couple packs of underdog number one on the bay a week ago.
I quickly got a pack.
I was searching like you might do now.
This is in 2010.
I'm not sure when the original diesel day record cut
AKA if it is the same cut as underdog.
Was that around in 2010?
I don't know.
Then someone named eco comes in and probably one of the smartest things.
That the original diesel story seems super complicated with info.
As to which ones are out or by who found this on a chem thread.
It's interesting.
Here we go.
Now this was this post.
That's up there in the right corner right now.
This one right here.
The weird thing that shroomies original D clone is not the same as chem dogs headband.
Well, that would be weird, right?
If shroomies D if swerve is right that shroomies original diesel is the one going around and it's the same thing as headband, but it's not the same thing as chem dogs headband.
Well, chem dog himself has said to me multiple times that he never had a headband never grew a headband.
So that throws a little wrench in the in the in the problem.
It says chem dog smoked out swerve and a friend of mine located in Santa Barbara, California with a batch of headband and both said it was basically straight up.
OG kush completely different than the original diesel cut.
I am very confused by the whole headband day wrecker stuff because I've been seeing more and more of the OG kush ask headband flooding Santa Barbara nor Cal growers.
In fact, chem dog even told my buddy in Santa Barbara something along the lines that this is OG bro.
Yet this is head yet.
This headband is another headband than the cut that's been going around the board for a while now.
JJ New York wrote a description of the original headband day wrecker underdog and it sounded a bit like or a lot like the original D clone.
He said it smelled spicy skunky diesel II taste JJ also said I don't think chem dog ever had an underdog headband cut.
So what the hell is this?
OG ish headband cut the chem has it's flooding the SoCal medical scene right now.
So overall like what you can illustrate here is when anybody asks about the original diesel so far what keeps happening is that it gets moved on to day wrecker.
Yep.
Yep.
Bye-bye.
It gets moved on to day wrecker.
Unless and unless you know guys like my buddy El Jefe there have something to add instead of just being a bitch then they get booted.
So I'm trying to stay focused here.
Anyway, it always gets shoved off man.
Like you try to go for original diesel.
You'll get info on headband headband headband and there's no there's nothing but the can of Bible stating that they're all the same.
It gets convoluted real quick and I can see why it's hard for a lot of people to go research a lot of this stuff that weren't around during all this.
Someone asked Joe brand your outdoor cut or your original diesel cut is the same as the shroomy got passed around.
This is actually true.
Juan's original diesel is the same exact cut shroomy source from Pennsylvania, which I've heard is different than diesel one day wrecker and underdog cut.
So just more confusion with with that.
Now venom 18818 says good read bro.
Now I'm more confused right like who wouldn't be and then some and then sway says I've noticed that pretty much every cut from progressive options has been fake now progressive options was an old clone only collective and in LA not even that old wasn't even that long ago that they were still in operation, but a lot of people went got cuts from there and bread with them.
Snow and several other people went down there and got cuts because that was easier obviously than sourcing them correctly and a lot of them were fake.
And then we have dusty bowls aka Danimal aka backyard farmer aka however many mean however many names he needs to try to stay in in this business because he's fucked so many people over.
I hooked up one Kenobi with the with the s420 original diesel the shroomy 420 now shroomy.
I wish I would have I should have kept this.
I have a picture of him.
He's a sex predator pop for fucking little kids.
So shroomy is not the most reliable source, but I mean just because you fuck little kids doesn't mean that you'd fuck in backdoor farmer.
It doesn't mean that you know, you can't be trusted on clones, but I don't like kid fuckers.
So fuck shroomy right?
All right last year.
This is a shapeshifter January 19 2010.
Yeah, that part fucking sucks.
But what are you gonna do last year?
Kush corner used to vend a record the double dog snow dog cat piss.
Unfortunately, they were shut down.
Otherwise, everyone else has that 707 could be different.
Don't know what that means.
Then we get down to see where's the where's the loompa part.
Let's go answer some loompa questions.
There it is.
NKK Hills.
Let's see what's see where we're at here.
So this is some of the other stuff.
Let's see swerve there.
There's where there's the quote.
So you guys know I'm not just putting it out.
I mean, he these are his words not mine fucking turd.
Let's see.
Where are we at?
Let's see.
Where are we at here?
Shapeshifter.
There's the Kush corner quote.
That guy was a fraud swerve console but also fraud.
Don't be lost.
Come back.
You'll be okay.
Moda Militia spelled terribly.
Loompa's headband is the is it the same?
There's a question.
So now we go back to the Moda Militia loompa's headband.
Now if we conclude and there's no reason to conclude this other than Jason King that diesel number one is the same as original diesel is the same as day wrecker is the same as headband, etc.
Where does loompa's headband fit in?
I'll go back to the JJ response.
So basically he just repeats what someone else said.
No, loompa's headband was not sourced.
It was not sourced in a way that can be provenance.
Loompa's said a few different things.
He said that it was stolen from a place in New York smuggled in someone's pocket to him.
Right?
He puts it back.
I forgot what year he said, but it was something he said.
It was the very first OG Kush to show up on the boards, which is very incorrect.
It is an OG Kush.
It's got some sour traits to it, but it's definitely an OG Kush.
It is nothing related to the old original diesel.
Yes.
Yeah, inspect to use the loompa's headband, which is the correct term for it.
Only because it's not headband.
It's not the original headband.
But yeah, that's actually one of the best lines that I've run of the loompa's headband crosses is the Ercol underdog.
That shit's bomb.
And then they move this over.
It jumps over to, what is this?
It's a double underdog.
Why anybody's talking about double underdog other than the fact that it has underdog in the name?
I'm not sure.
It's obviously not original diesel.
It is a seed line.
And then there's a person named Dubwobble.
Let me find this one.
Dubwobble.
Let's get to the Dubwobble part.
There's the double underdog, swerve, double underdog.
Where's Dubwobble?
Should be right about here.
Yeah.
I don't think there's any seeds of pure headband.
At least I've never seen them.
I've had a cut of headband for five years now.
It is not OG.
It is not Chemdog D.
It is not sour diesel.
It is way closer to sour diesel than OG in characteristics.
I have seen the so-called OG phenotype.
I believe that someone got their cuts mislabeled and they're actually growing OG.
The structure just isn't the same as the diesel type headband.
So that's, again, a little bit more clarity from someone that kind of knows what they're talking about
that has had the original diesel cut, but it's really hard to figure out.
And real headband is not OG.
Again, not OG.
Different area of the country.
Wasn't called headband at the time.
It's not OG.
And then Dubwobble says,
The 707 is not headband.
At least not what Harborside or Blue Sky passes out.
By the way, for everyone that PMs about trading,
I'm not able to PBM back. Blah, blah, blah.
And then we have Venom coming back in.
Yes, the 707 cut's definitely bomb, but I don't consider it real headband.
And then we go back to Joe Schmoe's double underdog cut for a while.
Gotta keep scrolling down because people are still talking about that.
And then someone bringing up underdog number one.
And then Green Thumb Danny.
Now, Green Dumb Fanny is a better name for him.
He does consider himself quite an authority.
And a lot of people consider him quite an authority on this site for some reason.
I'm not sure why.
And then it's him talking about, again, double underdog.
And Joe's cut throwing balls.
And then he calls someone Porch Monkey.
But I think that was their name.
Every single subject, no one takes it back to the,
Hey, wait a minute. Aren't we talking about fucking original diesel here?
How the fuck did we get to all these other topics?
Let's see.
Let's see.
I'm trying to find...
The next part.
We have Cowabunga Ron.
To confuse it up even more.
Let's see.
Empress, Firestarters, and Candy Kush.
Big L.
Don't you have some of those beans already?
I've seen you write that in another thread.
Just wondering, man, I would have popped those immediately.
So what he's referring to,
Empress, Firestarters, Candy Kush.
Candy Kush is another name for, or the Candy Cut, really,
is another name for Lumpus Headband.
Empress was Ken D. Lumpus Headband.
Yeah.
So it's nothing here nor there.
Trying to find if there's anything else to reference in here real quick.
And then we'll move on to the next quote.
We have Power OG showing up.
He's a fucking retard.
He says,
Go look at Lumpus forum to see about the real and only underdog cut I know of from Lumpa himself.
I know THC is selling another not real underdog.
Right now I'm running Cali Connect 818 Headband, which I think is Swerve's creation.
Guy's a fucking retard.
And it's hard for people to do this research,
that go on, that have these questions,
that need these answers,
and they don't know who these characters are
and how well they can be trusted.
And this is a shining example of being able to go through this thread,
navigate it as best you can,
and see if you can find the answers.
And by the end of it,
we have Power OG talking about
more Lumpus Headband,
and Yeti,
and how he got it from the man,
and it's the real deal,
and that's where it ends.
So, let's go to the next one.
Let's see. Where's my next one?
This is my favorite, my personal fave.
Alright, back it up, back it up.
Where's, oh, here they are.
And then I gotta find the original post, though.
Let's see.
No, that's not it. That's Icy Meg.
What about this one? There we go.
So this is what, uh,
this is what,
this is what,
on TH Farm.
Original Sour Diesel Cutting.
Looking up Original Diesel, this is where I fucking keep ending up, right?
Sour Diesel, shit like that.
This is started by TH Gobbs,
my old buddy,
TH Gobbs, right?
Yeah, dude, uh, Skunk Fia,
that's exactly kind of what I was,
I was getting to, is like,
man, people have all these questions
and I'm like, dude, go do some research,
go do some fucking research,
and then I realize this is what I send them to.
Anyway, TH Gobbs,
Original Sour Diesel.
Now, this guy is also known as NYC Kid,
this is Mycotech's best friend.
This is the guy passing the Asian Fantasy Cut
and the Blue Asian Fantasy Cut.
This is his Original Sour Diesel clone.
What do you guys think?
Pretty fucking,
pretty fucking cool.
Pretty fucking, pretty sick, huh?
Pretty sick for a sour.
There's some more shots.
Whoa, look at that sour.
Sour!
Anyway, oddly enough,
everybody blasts him on the thread and he never says another thing again.
It's one of the few times where I'm like,
wow, everybody didn't just buy into it
and go, fuck, that's dank!
That's fucking awesome!
So let's move on to, uh,
let's move, uh,
this is actually a really good guess.
If that plant is a clone, only my guess would be Afgooey.
I wouldn't say Blue Dream, that doesn't look like Blue Dream to me.
Um, Afgooey is even a stretch,
but it's a better guess than sour.
Alright.
And here's pictures of ECSD.
There you go.
There's sour.
Anyway, so let's move it over to ICMag.
Because at that point,
that's what you got, you know?
So here we go.
Original Diesel!
Hello, Connoisseur!
This is OJD he's referring to, and Jaha Hoover.
I was just wondering if there are any pictures
of Original Diesel that you use.
Is it the same as Underdog, Daywrecker, etc.?
Now, these guys are over in England,
and what a lot of people don't know
and they take for granted, I think,
is the fact that these guys, it's really hard to get clones
over the pond. Even still,
it's still really hard to get clones
over the pond, so a lot of times they're only using seed lines.
Um, and so
know where things are being made,
know who is making them,
and you'll have a better idea
of whether it's legit or not.
Just, uh,
it helps you
break down the process of whether these guys
are going to have legit shit or not.
So, going and sourcing American
clones over from British breeders
probably isn't going to be your best bet.
Anyway, so this guy's
asking them, hey, is this the same
as the American Original Diesel?
I mean, it should be. You're calling it Original Diesel, right?
You're calling it Underdog and Daywrecker, right?
Alright, so
next. Let's see, where was I?
Boom. OJD, hi, bro!
Ah, I don't think it's the exact same
cut as you posted. I don't have any pictures
handy, but I'll try to dig one up later and post it.
Yeah, well,
here's the pictures. Ja Hoover chimes in.
Here are some shots of the Original Diesel
OJD uses. This was sourced by
DNA Genetics
and was passed out to our friends. This cut is verified
to be the real deal Original Diesel
by the big
dogs in the game.
DNA being the big dogs.
Here you go! Here's some
shots.
Not sure what it is.
But they put up plenty of shots of
something.
I'm guessing it's
some res work. It looks like
Super Sour Silver Diesel Haze
to me.
That's what I would assume it is.
Not sure. I mean, granted, they grow shittily
so it's hard to tell, but it's definitely
not it.
And here's just the typical picture results
when you look up Original Diesel.
Right? None of which
are it. Closest one
is that middle one that looks a little
similar to it, but it's a little more
bulky in structure. Looks a lot more
like Jizzle.
Let me show you a picture of Jizzle.
Just for illustration purposes.
Jizzle picture.
There you go.
That's like a Jizzle
I think it's a Jizzle S1, but here's a Jizzle picture.
That's much more
what you would expect.
And it mimics the Original Diesel
look.
Overall,
this is what happens when you search
this shit out.
And as you see, there were many people that chimed in
that have respect in our community
that are Raiders,
that are cannabis historians
and putting their input on it.
And granted, you know what? A lot of info has come out
in the past 10 years
about these lines
what they are, what they aren't.
And so you can't
They're trying to use what info they had at that point
but you can hold it against Swerve because he's a fucking retard.
You can hold it against
Green Thumb Danny because he's a fucking retard
and they're speaking in facts
and like this is definitely this
this is definitely that.
Doesn't Gage Green work
with the Daywrecker Cut?
Who fucking knows what he's working with?
He probably sourced it from Dusty Bowles
would be my guess.
Backdoor Farmer, Danimal, that dude.
I'll try to leave it up for viewing
I have a hard time saving these
after I do them so they need to be
uploaded to YouTube and stuff so
if one of you wants to do that
and pass me the file, I'll be happy to put it up.
Weasel story I know.
Weasel crossed Sensi Northern Lights to a diesel
Chem 91, this became the underdog
AJ then renamed underdog to headband.
Well, we have some issues with that too.
We have some issues with that too
because JJ New York has also said
that he named it headband.
We don't know who named it headband.
AJ and JJ are very good friends
I'm not calling either one of them a liar
one of them probably did, maybe?
Maybe?
But we're not sure which because they both take the claim to it.
Alright.
Let me see what I missed now.
The Exodus Cheesecake came from
Skunk One Seed Pack in the 80s.
That is correct, Germinator 2.
Did I miss something earlier?
Didn't come from a collective in Luton and Milo.
Didn't put it out
in the race scene. Not facts at all.
Yeah, it
came from Skunk One.
Select a director.
I talked to JJ years back, said he lost it way
back, never gave a clone out neither.
Said it was extinct. That's what I've heard too.
You know?
Pretty much everybody
says everything's extinct that they no longer
have access to in that little circle
so it's hard to say.
I've seen Kemdogg refer to headband
in his own stuff and then I've heard
Kemdogg also say
that he's never run headband.
But it's usually other people referring to Kemdogg
having headband as opposed to Kem saying he ran headband.
So that's a hard one.
What else was there?
The extinct mass super skunk.
I found a picture of it last night.
Supposedly
it's supposed to be the best
Jesus was supposed to be the best representation
but I saw some pictures last night
and I was like wow that doesn't really look like
anything that I remember seeing
anything close.
Yeah I'm not sure
why headband and Daywrecker
got stuck together other than the Canna Bible
and people fucking read that book
and they stick to it religiously.
Religiously.
Anything said in the Canna Bible's got to be true.
And it's just
so many things have been proven to be incorrect
in that book. And again
it was a long time before there was a lot of info
out there and a lot of these guys were talking
so they were probably trying to make
best do with what they
could but Jason King had some good access
to people. So he
you know
yeah
supposedly ran the diesel.
Now the one thing when researching
when researching
diesel
the one thing after
talking to all the dudes involved
on the diesel side from the New York side
says that they for sure had the
Chem 91
what it turned out to look like
was that they have Chem 91 bag seed
and that was what was
used to then
call diesel. So it would have been a little
bit different than Chem 91.
Beard Ed
I don't know
that's what the source
says up there about old Dr. Underground
Let's see
I don't know that he claimed it
but he's the first person that comes up
for having created it. So
Someone say diesel?
Hold on I'm trying to find something
This mass skunk picture
Now this the picture I'm looking for was taken
from Chem Dogs
room and was shown in high times
of it. God damn
I got too many fucking pictures of bullshit
on here
But yeah that's the best we can tell
it's either a bag seed of Chem 91
or Chem 91 that was called
diesel
I would believe the bag seed story
that's more likely to have happened
as opposed to the cut just being passed
But yeah, it's hard to say
So
overall what the answer ends up being
is who fucking knows
I got nothing
I got no answers going through all that
bullshit. Not a single answer
worth going over. There's the mass skunk
that's supposed to be the mass super
AKA the Virginia super skunk
Skunk Fia does that look like
the Virginia super skunk?
I know it's kind of a shitty picture
Let me try to swap it
There we go. You can kind of see it up in the corner
Hopefully it's not too small
There it is up in that corner. It's really airy
I don't know if it's just that
it's not the best grow of it so it's really hard to say
It has similar leaves to the diesel
but god damn it's pretty airy
So yeah it's hard to say
This is from
Greg's room I believe
Mystery seed from the Chem D
I wonder what that was
It does look like it was hating life doesn't it
These are all the other pictures
I don't know who's ringing my doorbell
right now. Chem sister
Lay down Murray lay down
Murray get over here
Get over here
Anyway yeah
That's what I wanted to run through
It was a fun trip down memory lane
going through fucking old
The big dogs are coming for me
The big dogs are like
What the fuck this fucking guy just gave away all our secrets
I think it is skunk fea I think it's around 2005
When you can explain the difference
between all 14 real chem D plants
being passed around
Yeah that's a rough one
Let's go see who's at the door
because I'm sure Brynn didn't hear that
Let's go see
Stay
I wonder if it's the
dancing Habibi
Oh it's the
cartel lady lovely
Something to do with a box
I'm sure Brynn loves talking to her
Anyway
Back to what we were doing
Oh
Swerve's gonna threaten to quit the business
You guys don't have enough respect for me
I've done so much
Swerve
Oh man didn't I put that naked picture
of him somewhere up here
I might be able to even post it again
I don't want to dig all the way back
to the beginning of my shit
but I thought I took a screenshot of it
and made a smiley face on his nipples for him
I did
There you go guys
That's Swerve
Who is Swerve?
That's Swerve
Notice the kids toy in the background
That's my favorite
Almost as good as that shit
Oh lord I don't have so much of that
What was that about?
Cartel came in often
They wanted their quinceanera flowers
They got our books
And they were like do you have our quinceanera flowers?
I said no ma'am
No we don't have your quinceanera flowers ma'am
Here give them to me
I want to see what they are
Oh it's your books?
Oh fuck
Anyway
There you go
There you go
Anyway
That was our buddy Swerve
I had to bring it back up
He's a fucking asshole
Anyway
The whole point of this was to show
I've kind of been a dick
When I tell people go research it
Why aren't you fucking researching it?
Why are you asking me?
When I start snapping on people
I'm sorry
Some shit you just can't research
The answers aren't there
You have to go to the root
Of the sources
You have to go back
You have to talk to the clops
The weasels
I wouldn't recommend talking to AJ
You're not going to get the same answer twice
You have to go back and talk to these guys
Don't bug Skunk V.A. though
Because he don't like being bugged
Just kidding
Don't go be impolite
In asking this
Don't expect stuff
But be respectful when you're asking
There's no answer to the original diesel
What this cut is
Where it came from
Is it the Daywrecker?
Is it the original diesel number one?
I don't think it is
I remember everyone saying
The original diesel number one
Including Vondo
Said it died very early on
Is it headband?
Probably not
Headband seems to be a different cut
Than the original diesel
It's not the same cut that I see Collective
And the Elite crew have
As headband
I wanted to break that down
If there's any other
Any other strange
You guys want me to research
I'll do that in the future
We can do this once
This is a pain in the ass
Every few weeks
Love ya Duker
Love ya Skunk
It's confusing
It is absolutely confusing
Being in the middle of it back then
Shaking your head
These guys don't know shit
Why do people keep asking them shit?
In the end
Goes to show
They don't know shit
What?
Oh my god
I would have fucking killed
Let me show it
I think there's two of them in here
They're acid blotter papers
It's actually real acid blotter paper
From Luke Chu
I believe is how you pronounce it
No it's actually pronounced Chu
These are pretty fucking cool
And the cartel just got delivered them
Instead of our fucking house
Again
Are you ever going to make Panama Red shirts?
They are up and they are already for sale
Cannabis Carnivore
They're over on skunktech.com
See?
It's even got a certificate of authenticity
A little Luke signature
But yeah
I think it's fucking rad when an artist
Goes out of their way to make acid blotter fucking art
That's fucking cool
I'm really stoked about those
As you can see on the back
It is really meant to be used for that
But I don't know if I can
These are a little expensive to be used for that
Anyway
I would have been pissed if they delivered this somewhere else
God
Idiots
Alright
So any of
And when I say these guys are cartel
I'm not fucking kidding
That's not an example of being racist
They are fucking cartel
We have Mexican cartel here
Pretty fucking heavy
Family Motors
Stuff like that is all cartel owned
They live right next to us
And they are not nice
I was walking over there
And I didn't really say anything
I just walked like I was fucking pissed
And I went over there
And they kind of looked
Like what is this white guy doing
And then he says
I was like hey what's up
My name is Matt
And he's like
They call me Pancho
And I was like yep
I bet they do
I know
And when I opened the door I kind of charged a little bit
I remember
She pointed the fuck with me
Was she nice?
She backed up like oh no no
Fucking weirdos
You got 20 people living in one
Two story house
Yeah 20 people living in a two story
Woooo
Yeah
So if you guys have any questions
Go ahead and start shooting them
I can answer questions now
What?
Oh Harry J Allstars
Did that reggae track
It's called Liquidator
Oh I don't know
If Duke's seen my tattoo
I don't think so
I have a black hand tattoo
Um
Yeah there we go
The vagabond inn in Bakersfield
We also have the villa inn
And it just
It looks like a villain
Duke
Duke gets around apparently
Duke that's shady
Duke you shady
What's up Stray
Duke you've been places I don't wanna know
Yeah Jesus was one of my favorites by far
Artist in Link to his work
The artist I'll type it out
Luke Chue
But it's pronounced Chue
And you can find him at
Luke
Luke Chue
There you go
Um I think they still have one of these left
On 1xrun.com
The other one sold out
There's only 100 made of each
Duke
You kind of give me a funny feeling in my tummy
That you know that shit I don't like that
He knows about the vagabond inn
You shady as fuck
Nope hi Alonesome
I'm gonna bring you on so
You can tell us all about the
Chem D's
Is Hefe totally sad
That I bumped him from here for being an asshole
How was he being a dickwad
How or why
Hefe's always a dick
That's what he gets
I know right
Chem Valley
Chem Valley D
The worst shop in Baco
Oh god
All of them
They're all bad
Apparently multiple Sour D cuts
Weasel cross to male underdog
To mascun
There's a debate on
What happened with the Sour Diesel
Whether it's the Our Diesel
It would have been nice to have Hefe fucking in here
To answer the Our Diesel
From Vondos fucking point of view
Because he knows the story from Vondo
Better than most
They had the bag seeds of
Whatever
The Diesel
In a bag that said Our Diesel
And that became the Sour Diesel
That's the story from
From Vondo and that's one of Hefe's friends
But he had to act like a jackass
So he's not in here to fucking answer that
Dummy
How would you describe the differences in smell
And color growth between Chem D and V
That's a long question to answer on here buddy
So Weasel and AJ don't know
What Albany Crew did with mascun
Diesel and L to make Sour D
I don't know
I was trying to focus
Hefe was acting like a jackass
Hefe didn't want me doing this
And I'm not sure why Hefe didn't want me doing this
Maybe he just wanted attention
I'm not sure
But yeah
There was a
A really
After the Adam Dunn show
Weasel did another podcast
And it was a bunch of info
Contrary to the original podcast
And I've really been trying to find it
But I can't because there might be some answers
Between both of them
And what was consistent
But I can't find that one
I've had a really hard time finding that
Ever hear of a strain by Gooey
Triple A Death
I have not
But I'm not proficient in Gooey's work
Where's the pink Death Star
It's up in Canada
Canadians run the shit out of that
Miss Jill, Purple Afghani, N.E.E.T.A
Miss Jill
County, that is a beautiful cut
You got 707 Seedbank Catpiss
I believe it's the
Pittsburgh piss
Norcal Catpiss
That's about the most I know about it
Any Truth to Catpiss
There are so many different Catpisses
It's almost like ChemD
90 of them
Yeah
There are so many different ones
So it's hard to say
Maybe Time Warple is one of them
that typically spits out those ammonia piss turps.
My buddy in Canada,
Lame Game on Flame,
he knows where to get lots of pink Death Star.
He's been showing me lots of pink Death Star fucking
extracts and bud and all kinds of shit.
Are they all related?
I'm not sure if,
I don't think all the Chem Ds are related for sure.
Cat piss, I doubt all the cat pisses are related.
Super Silver Haze, you can find it in that,
another Afghan Haze combo.
Yeah, Ziggy is awesome, I love that dude.
He's a hell of a guy,
plus he's a little old punk rocker.
Gotta love it.
Jill gonna do a reverse so she's handling it,
handling her shit.
Look at that.
Can you see my comment?
Because it doesn't show up like a-
I don't know what, what?
The pigeon ollie?
I don't know.
It doesn't like fade in.
Denali missed you, bud, yeah.
You can see? Yeah.
Why the fuck's it fading on mine?
I don't know.
You'll figure it.
And Denali said missed you too.
See, there you go.
You got your answer.
All right, what other questions you guys got?
How those blue bonnets from Texas Kid turning out
from Lone Star?
I believe, Lone Star?
Didn't Lone Star make that shit?
Let's see.
I had a picture somewhere.
I was illustrating,
because I have all my males in a tray together.
They're all kind of in small pots,
but he was standing out so much,
the selected blue bonnet male.
Hold on, let's see if I can find him.
He kept standing out in a crowd of everything
and it was pretty amazing.
Let's see.
Is that it?
No, that's not it.
Now I've got fucking Liquidator in my head.
Yeah, I had a picture of it,
but he in the midst of all the,
let's see, how do I do this?
The code is pre-pre-420, thank you.
35% off right now of everything but the spray.
It's pre-pre-420.
That's it.
He was standing with his family,
it was like this, almost at 90 degrees straight up.
Like it was pretty crazy in the middle of everything.
And his stock's like this thick.
Eh, yay thick.
In a tiny little, bigger than a Solo Cup,
but it's a square pot.
Oh, whoa.
And he's super tall, so he made himself stand out.
So I'm doing a four-way,
a four-way, the Fairfax four-way
across to the blue bonnet,
some Mac blue bonnet, just to see where that takes it,
because I don't like Mac turps.
Jesus.
I don't wanna stay up.
Hey, shit.
How does he know, did he live,
did two cars live here?
I don't know.
Jerry's all the time?
I don't know.
What's up, I'm all day.
Can I find any roadkill skunk in your other lines
aside from the heirloom Afghani?
There's still heirloom Afghani hybrids that I have
that you can find, you can find skunk spray.
Some people call roadkill skunk different things.
I just, when I think of roadkill skunk,
I think of a skunk being run over, you know what I mean?
Like that's a smell,
and you can smell that fucking half a mile away.
So yeah, that kind of stuff's in there.
What is the trip, fucking trip with Copycat Genetics?
What a sweet webpage, never seen so many frosted S1s,
even RKS to boot.
Copycat's a fraud, dude.
That dude's a fraud.
He released S1s and they were all red lines.
So stay away from it.
We're gonna be having an even bigger sale on 420,
but that's always a way, but we'll have a really big sale.
I'm gonna put out a bunch of stuff
that's never been released.
And it's only gonna be one or two packs of some stuff,
but put it out there.
The sale, the pre-pre 420 sale is just for tonight.
It will not be available tomorrow,
so if you want in on that, 35% off everything
except the spray.
And tonight, Duke's gonna be doing a live stream
and tonight, Duke's gonna be doing a live feed.
So everybody go check out Duke's live feed.
I'll be there too.
He has some of the best live feeds out there,
so I'm excited to see it.
Yep, that's it.
Go watch Duke's.
I'm not sure what time he's going on.
He said tonight, maybe after this,
maybe a little bit later, but pay attention.
Cheers, y'all.
