Welcome to Breeder's Syndicate, where we explore the history of a clandestine scene
through the eyes of the folks who lived it.
I'm Matthew, owner of Riot Seeds.
I'll occasionally be joined by my co-host, Notso Dog, breeder and grower from Mendocino.
Welcome to the underground.
So this is the first time we're trying this on YouTube.
I think we're live, I don't know, I hope so.
But Notso's out today, he's at a wedding, so today I decided to bring in the homie Smellboat
from Smellboat Seeds.
Originally when I was going to start the first podcast, when I started doing live streams,
this is who I was going to do that with.
And he got busy with other stuff in life, and we're both stoners, so we just lagged.
Never worked out, but I'm super stoked to bring him on because he's probably one of
the people I have the most fun talking with, and I know everyone will super enjoy him.
So without further ado, let me figure out how to bring in a different background and
add in my buddy, Smellboat.
It's me, Smellboat.
What's up, Smellboat?
Oh, I can hear you.
What's up, man?
How you doing?
I'm good, Bubba, how are you?
Glad to have you, dude.
Glad to have you.
So I wanted to first start talking about what is Smellboat?
Because the first question everybody has is, what the fuck is the name Smellboat from?
Ah, fuck.
So video games.
Long ago there used to be, it's probably still around too, when I was like 20, 19, so 25,
26 years ago, we used to play this game called Counter-Strike, and my name was Smellboat
on Smellboat Captain.
Smellboat Captain.
Smellboat Captain, the captain of the Smellboat on Counter-Strike, and it sucked to get killed
by the Smellboat Captain.
I bet, dude.
Who's the captain of the fucking Smellboat?
So did you just combine two words?
Pretty much.
That's it.
Yeah, that's smart.
So yeah, like Carl Larry was another thing when I was, like in Nintendo when they would
save baseball games, they would save players' names, they'd be all Carl Larry.
So my baseball players were always Carl Larry.
My shooter games were always Smellboat.
I like that.
I like it.
Yeah, I mean, what's the point of coming up with something, you know, cool?
Yeah, I mean, yeah, like the first thing I see is people are like, what is a Smellboat
seeing?
What the fuck is a Smellboat?
It's a human.
So we first started talking on the forums back in the day, and then first became like
really good friends.
Yeah.
Pretty much at the beginning of Instagram.
Yes.
We first started talking really heavily.
And at some point, like we had always talked about hanging out because we don't live terribly
far from each other.
We're both Valley boys, like Central Valley boys, not San Fernando Valley boys.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
So at some point we made a decision to go on this trip to Emerald Cup together.
And you went full well knowing everybody wanted to kill my ass.
Yeah.
And you were just there.
Bring in the big gun.
We'll punch the motherfuckers.
You were just there just to like, help me from losing my shit.
And you had some seeds and you had some killer bud.
We're like, fuck it.
Let's go have a good time.
You know, we brought Petey.
Yes.
Hold on.
Hold on.
I can actually, let's see.
I'm going to show off Petey.
Yeah, there's a Petey.
Let's go show off a Petey.
Hold on a second.
I got to remember how to say it.
I got to take out these stupid things.
Okay.
Here's a Petey.
Let's find the Petey.
There's a Petey.
There's a Petey bird.
A brother from another mother.
Yeah.
So that, that young fella, God, what was he like early twenties when he went with us?
And he had never done shit.
He's not even 30 yet.
You know, like, yeah.
So he had never done any kind of anything.
He had helped me with like some local shows and things like that because I was like, I
don't know.
I'm not a big fan of the local shows.
I'm not a big fan of the local shows.
I'm not a big fan of the local shows.
I'm not a big fan of the local shows.
I'm not a big fan of the local shows.
I'm not a big fan of the local shows.
more times. Dude, I got kicked out. That's the lady. The lady was there. The lady who
just stared at me like the NCGA's wife. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. She hated me so hard. I don't
know why. She changed her feelings from hating me to liking me to hating me again. And eventually
we had to move on because it was just chaotic. Yeah. Yeah. But I remember dying, like falling
asleep and PD found the only cup of coffee in all of Emerald Cup after chasing one for
two hours for me. I had to throw props to PD in here. Yeah. He had fucking carried all
of our shit. We'd make multiple trips back and forth through the car. I love it, man.
That was a brutal weekend. That was, that was, uh, I don't think we got back to the
hotel. Well, remember we didn't get there until like two or three in the morning. Yes.
And then we had dinner and people wanted to meet at Denny's cause it was the only fucking
place open. And I get sick off of anything that, you know, that is it food I make. So
I couldn't fucking eat the entire weekend except for that one place. Do you remember
that little tiny like restaurant cafe that we found and with the pie, the lady had all
those homemade pies and she was closed and we were fucking like walked up and we're all,
Oh, please open more. We bought all her shit. We bought all of her fucking pie, everything
and stuff. We were so like, just give us all the fucking pie you got because the kitchen
was fucking close. And we went back to the hotel with like 40 pies.
I remember so fucking high. I couldn't, I was just like, I need to sleep and just pie
money, money and pie.
I just went and took your money from you. I counted it, wrote that shit down and just
go to bed, little sleepy man. And then the next day I was like 40 times more tired.
Dude. So that's right though. We got there at like one or two in the morning. We didn't
have the food, didn't get to the hotel until like three or four and then had to be at the
show like at nine in the morning or something. And then we did the show. Like we stayed way
too fucking long on day one. We stayed, we stayed until the night.
And then day two, I had to do that, the interviews. And then, and then I had to do that commercial
thing with Microbe Life and dude, we were so fucking exhausted. We were all like, can
we just go? And then we were going to stay another night and I was all, fuck that. I
can make the drive. You two just sleep. And I just drove like six fucking hours. I was
like, yeah, just go.
That was crazy. We did it somehow. That was the weekend of the Golden Coast thing too.
Now that I think about it, it was, that was when that really got handsome. And what's
his name too?
Pocketskid?
Yep. And then Swerve was there.
That's the weekend Swerve shoot his pants.
Yeah. And then what's his, one of the big dudes, I thought it was the Hawaiian guys,
but it wasn't.
Grayskull? He was there.
It wasn't Grayskull. It was one of the other big dudes wanted to beat the shit out of somebody.
So we had to settle him down too.
That was Grayskull and he wanted to beat the shit out of the Golden Coast.
There you go. It was Grayskull.
He had found out about what would happen with me and Dave and he already wanted to kick
his ass. So he's like, what the fuck? And I was like, dude, he's not going to fight.
He just keeps calling for lawyers. Fuck that guy. Like it's not even worth fucking punching.
That was a fun trip when I went out to Maui and visited Grayskull and Joey and them too.
I wish you could have been there.
Killer weed, right?
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They lost.
I was supposed to get in like on a Thursday.
I never even, I basically sat in the airport all day.
Then they flew me to LA because I don't like to go to the drive to the big airport.
So I'll fly out to little airports just because I don't want to leave my car, you know?
And I sat in the airport for like nine fucking hours and then they fly me to LA where I was
supposed to go to San Francisco.
And then I get there and my plane had already left.
So then I had to stay in a hotel, then get to the hotel until like one or two, had to be at the airport back at five.
I did meet John Sally that morning and we smoked before we went to the airport.
So that was pretty funny. But yeah, then I flew out and I was supposed to go to that show, but they lost all my luggage and it had like my whole quarter pound in it for the show.
My clothes and fucking everything.
So I was like, and then I get there and they're like, come to the show, come to the show.
And I was like, dude, I've airport lived for like two straight days.
I'm not, I'm not.
Yeah, I'll come and see you guys tomorrow.
I'm done.
I'm fucking done.
Brutal.
Yeah.
But yeah, those fucking pies, back to the pies.
I wish to God, I wish to God I knew the name of that restaurant and that fucking, those pies was so god damn good.
I honestly couldn't tell you what any of those, I can't even tell you what any of them tasted like.
I just remember being a fat kid, grabbing my face with like three different kinds of pies.
That's what it was.
We literally bought, she had like all these different order of a pie, half of a pie and she's all, well, what do you want slices of?
And I literally saw, just give us all the pie.
Just empty.
And she looked at us like we were fucking stupid and that's all.
No, no, for real.
Just give us all the pie, all of it.
We want it all.
And then she, I think she ended up making us food.
Like I can't even, she would, they were fucking close though.
They were like, that was the nicest old lady in history.
How the hell did we even get her to open a door for our scumbag ass?
I have fucking no idea.
I know three dudes standing outside drooling.
I think we ended up eating there the next day as well.
Like twice.
We, I think we went there twice.
Yeah, we probably did.
I would have no recollection.
There were people I met that weekend and hands I shook and I couldn't, I was so tired.
I've never been more tired.
That was the, I, that was the, the interview with the, the other, that kid, the Australian
kid, and then the, the commercial thingy with, uh, uh, microblast, microblast.
I was so fucking out of it.
I don't even remember like make saying where I don't remember it.
I literally don't remember.
Like, I know we went and did it because we did it, but I don't interview with your, one
of your brothers.
Yeah.
With, with, uh, with, yeah, with the good brother, but the cool brother.
Yeah.
I have the, the cool brother.
I thought it was the other one.
No, it was, it was, uh, it was fucking mad.
Oh, Brian.
Yeah.
If he wanted to do a brother interview and I was like, I don't give a fuck.
Let's do one.
Yeah.
Like we always, I mean, you know, we were brothers.
It was, it was good until he became a weirdo.
Yeah.
I mean, for people not watching, don't know if you're familiar with mad farmer seeds,
this is his biological brother.
Yeah.
Like biological.
We're not just saying like, Hey, this is a brother.
Same mom, same dad, same grew up together.
So all that shit.
So he's, he's been around to see all that company forming, but he was always doing his
own thing at the same time in a different area.
So let's talk about how you started, dude.
I mean, we've never covered it on the syndicate.
It's been covered elsewhere, but I'd like to cover it just to, just to jump off.
Yeah.
So, you know, I grew up around it.
So like literally I remember the first plants I actually grew myself.
I hid in the front yard of a small town in Oklahoma because my dad had got caught with
180 kilos and we left California, you know, obvious reasons.
And we moved to Oklahoma because it's a much more lenient state in the eighties.
I mean, why wouldn't we go to Oklahoma?
So, yeah, dude.
So he, the, the, so just honestly, the whole story is my grandfather was the chief of police.
My dad's brothers were both sheriffs.
My dad got caught with 180 keys, did a couple of months.
When he went to court, there was no marijuana left.
The marijuana ads vanished.
Walked away.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Left.
So they let him out.
He went to my grandma's grabbed a bunch of pounds out of the attic and we drove to Oklahoma
and lived there for four or five years.
So like things could calm down.
So I really didn't know, like, I think I was like, I mean, my first memories in life were
always smelling scum and shit, you know, like my dad would come in with giant black trash
bags full of weed, you know, and trim it in the house and all that.
I'm sure I always went to school smelling like marijuana.
I remember when Reagan and then started the dare program, the cops always wanted to talk
to me and I didn't ever understand why, you know, but I had to run down.
I knew what was going on.
So anyways, I grew this little, these little plants.
I used to collect all their seeds and my uncle would mow the yard like once a year.
So he went out and mowed the yard and there was these giant pot plants in the front yard,
literally.
And so that was the first time I grew it.
And then I got obsessed.
So everywhere we'd go fishing, I would grow little plants.
I'd go and grow, put little seeds in the ground.
And then I would literally start, I started to learn that if I put paper bags over the
top of the plants, it would make them flower.
And so I would leave little paper bags and we'd come back the next weekend and I'd take
the paper bag off and then there'd be like these little eight inch plants and started
at the green flowers.
Yeah, dude.
And I didn't want to smoke it or anything.
I just like, you know, fucking around.
But my first really big growth is when I got out of the army, I was pretty mentally busted
up.
Like my brain was fucked.
I went through a bunch of shit and oh God, it's a long story.
And so I was looking for a place to grow.
Like that was what I wanted to do.
It was about 1997 and I just wanted to like spend a summer away, check out and all that
shit.
And so there's a little town here called Three Rivers.
They're Three Rivers, California.
It's right at the base of the Sequoias.
And I went up there and a friend of mine's brother had this big side of a mountain that
was completely, there's nothing, there's nothing.
It was right off of the road.
No roads, no water, no anything.
So my bright idea was to, hey, let's start growing on the side of the mountain and let's
grow from the bottom all the way up to the top.
So I have to climb this mountain every fucking day that doesn't have water with water on
my back like a mule.
Yeah, yeah.
So I do it and I'm killing it, man.
And these plants are getting big and they're getting beautiful and spring comes, you know,
and the rains come back.
Then we used to get a pretty good amount of rain and I started getting these.
There was a creek that ran down it.
So I started setting up these big 300 gallon water troughs down into the ground.
So as the creek ran, it captured it and it made that life a lot easier.
Well, one day I was hauling ass, like running from the top of the hill down to the bottom
and I fell through the fucking ground and it was a goddamn rattlesnake pit.
And I never, I never knew that rattlesnakes like get together like, like thousands of
fucking rattlesnakes will like turn into a ball and do rattlesnake shit.
I don't know what the fuck they were doing.
That is gross.
I fell into this hole like thigh deep and it sounded like a buzzsaw went off and I ran
and I never went back and I never checked on my plants and I said, fuck that, grow.
Fucking fall into rattlesnakes?
Dude, I was so freaked the fuck out.
So then the following year, I didn't grow on that land anymore.
I got this old rancher guy up in Squaw Valley who had 180 acres or so.
And it was really cool.
I had this old movie set on it and shit like in the seventies or eighties, they were doing
a Western movie.
So it was literally a facade.
Like you go down the road and it was just like faces of these old saloons and motels
and they built this massive fucking hotel up there.
Like the fireplace in this hotel is like the size of my house and it was completely flooded
out.
Well, the story has it is that they were doing a Western and the movie never got made.
And then when the people who were like paying for the movie showed up, it was just a bunch
of people running around naked doing LSD and coke.
So they pulled the plug on the movie, left everything up there.
This guy bought it, turned it into like a huge cattle ranch and basically just let me
have free will.
And that year I hit a thousand pounds on the floor with two fucking workers and was so
in over my fucking head.
And dude, back then it was worth so much.
It was worth way, way, way more.
And I would do it.
I was so stupid.
I would be driving through town at three to four in the morning with the back of the truck
just trash bags just filled up and it's all filled with pounds.
Just like, yeah, just driving.
Everything is fine.
I'm white.
Don't look at me, cop.
Yeah.
It's kind of crazy what you think you can get away with back then.
And then you end up getting away with it.
Yeah.
Thank fucking God, dude.
Thank God.
I'd still be in prison.
Like I would still be in prison to this day.
But so that's why I remember like you had brought up, like we used to talk to each other.
It was I always thought it was overgrown, but you had you corrected me today and said the other name.
Oh, no.
C-Depot.
C-Depot is where I first met your brother.
It could have been earlier.
Okay.
Where your brother first made his name and like made a bunch of quotes was on C-Depot.
Yeah.
If that still existed, things would be different.
C-Depot, you and I would talk.
And it was funny because it was basically because my name was Smellboat.
Yeah.
And I had a lot of pictures of stuff.
Yeah.
Everyone was all, what the fuck is this shit?
You know?
And I was like, oh, it's just stuff I'm growing right now.
And everybody at the time were growing these little tiny indoor, like one light roots.
And I had these monster fucking fields, like literally sides of fucking mountains.
So I was never on line though, because I had a job.
I had a job.
A thousand pounds.
Yeah.
It kind of worked.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So dude, I was so exhausted back in those days.
Like, and then I had, I just fucked.
And once again, I got so tired and fed up with the partner back then.
Kind of had to falling out, kind of had M16s pointed at me.
At the time, I was only a little bit out of the infantry.
So I also was handy with weapons.
Yeah.
So it crossed my mind to go and take what was mine.
Yeah.
But I thought better of it.
That's probably smart.
Yeah.
I made enough to be happy and build a really big, nice indoor grow.
And that's kind of where I got my indoor grow was from that bullshit, you know?
And then my indoor grow just got bigger and bigger and bigger and more and more.
But then once again, I got too fucking busy because I like to do everything by my goddamn
self and it doesn't work.
Like when you have lupus and shit, like you're all like, I'm going to take on
fucking 64 lights.
I'm looking at the grow.
It doesn't work well with stress.
And then I find myself laying on the couch.
Yeah.
Everything hurts.
But I kind of covered the start.
Yeah, I think that covers the start.
I think that covers the start.
The seed part though, you remember me telling you all the time, like I used to be obsessed
with like one branching.
Yeah.
So like I would just have males and to preserve the genetics, I would literally take a male
and see that one branch and then that branch would get kept in those seeds.
So my collection of seeds is absolutely fucking massive of one branching, you know?
Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Lots of different types.
And then I got really, really serious about it when I hallucinated from that chocolate
cherry one.
Oh yeah, that'll do it.
Made me feel like I was on mushrooms.
I was all like, you know what?
This is going to be, it's too strong for me.
But I know these potheads that are over here in the fucking chat are going to be all, I
love getting really fucking high.
So I was like, we're going to work with this shit.
It was way too fucking strong for my ass.
It was, it was way too strong.
I had the clockwork orange, it was like that.
And people would ask me like about it.
I'm like, I don't know.
I don't smoke it.
It's not what I like.
It's not that it's too strong in a way that I don't like, you know, it interacts with
me to where it fucks me up in a paranoid kind of, yeah, not fun way.
And I like fun ways.
Yeah.
So, so some of your first releases, uh, were those with what we were releasing them for
a season?
Was your first release or did you talk to me?
You talked me into it.
I always have to talk the best guys into it, keeping seeds around it and making seeds and
joining the seed revolution.
It was like three years.
Yes.
Three years.
It's like three years of, yeah, you need to release seeds.
And I was like, yeah, I like the stuff I was seeing.
It was during a lot of it was during the beginning of the cookies era.
Yeah.
And, and, but it was right at that point where we were like, okay, we're sick of seeing
cookies.
They're sick of seeing cookie stuff.
What can you do that's unique with cookies?
And you found a way to make some of the most beautiful, absolutely beautiful, but still
reckoningly potent shit.
So let's talk about what you were working with to get to that point.
Yeah.
So funny how this worked out.
So there was a website called Kanazon.
Do you remember that?
Well, I remember Kanazon.
So Kanazon, I had a really good friend on Kanazon that went by the name Smoke.
He was from Canada.
And that is where I sourced that chocolate of the chocolate tie.
Yeah.
From.
Okay.
Rev.
I got the cherry for the cherry tie.
Rev's cherry tie.
I don't know how tie-y tie it is.
There's tie in it for sure.
But it's a few different things.
I think there's two totally different males.
Yeah.
It is.
And with one female.
Two seed flowering time.
I think that's what Rev was doing.
He didn't want a 90 to 120 day.
He's trying to get it down to 80 days.
Yeah.
And I fucked around and used a male from Rev's cherry because Smoke could send me these seeds.
And I got to tell you more about that too.
But Smoke could send me these seeds.
And Smoke was hilarious, dude.
If you were ever on Kanazon, you would know who he was.
I was banned.
From day one.
One liter bottles, clear plastic soda bottles.
That was his grow.
And they had these tiny little like T5, T8 looking bulbs.
And he grew really pretty flower.
But every grow, he did one branching.
And that's how we became friends.
Because I told him about like, oh my God, dude, this is how I used to do it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And he sent me literally like 10 seeds of everything he had ever done.
So.
Oh, wow.
And his, he loved like black rose, white rhino, white widow.
He sounds familiar.
Yeah.
I'm sure I knew who he was from potpimp or something.
Yeah.
And he was, he spoke French better than English.
So I used to translate all back then you could still use fucking translator.
So I would write it in English, translate it all into French and send it to him.
And send him mumbo jumbo.
And after a time it turned out fucking horrible.
I know.
Why do you keep accosting him like that?
With all those sexual innuendo.
So, dude, I still email with him at least once a year.
And he still has 12 of the original chocolate seeds.
Oh, really?
12 of them.
He said, so he stabbed somebody a few years back.
He called them gorillas.
Tried to rob them.
He stabbed one of them.
Had to go do this whole court thing.
He's on probation, all this shit.
Just crazy stuff.
And he said, as soon as everything dies down, those seeds are mine.
So I can look deeper into it.
Let's see.
Hopefully he gets that.
So, dude, I still don't know what it is.
He called it chocolate tie number one, two, three, seven.
Just it's little plastic bags, marker and lots of numbers.
Holy fuck, though, when I hit that with the revs.
I'm not kidding.
The people who got to smoke it, it was literally like a chocolate cherry candy.
I might even have pictures of this.
It was a milky chocolate with a cherry finish.
It was fucking stunning.
So that's the one that made me hallucinate.
It did.
I went and laid in bed.
It was so fucking bad.
It was there.
That's with the rainbow.
So that is the chocolate cherry with rainbow back into it.
Chocolate cherry.
I took a male from that and hit triangle with it.
And that made what I ended up finding my red vine.
That's right.
That's right.
And then I took a male from red vine and OGKB had just hit the scene.
And it's super intrigued my ass because it looked like a duck foot.
This plant used to get called duck foot.
It looked like some of the Hercules mutants that we use to bind the seeds and shit like that.
And so it intrigued the shit out of me.
I got a cut of it and I hit it with the chocolate cherry.
The OGKB didn't get me super ripped.
Like I could smoke a joint of it and be all like, oh, I'm chill, you know?
But I wanted to see what this crazy 12 foot fucking mongoloid plant and this weirdo slow
plant would do when they got after it, you know?
So the red vine was that medium though.
So you got the chocolate cherry in there now that I created that with triangle.
That's where I found red vine.
Now red vine isn't the name of that cross because I used to not name my crosses.
I just think this is what it is, you know?
Red vine was that mom.
There was a certain plant named red vine because it tasted like the licorice.
And then so a male from that went to OGKB.
The first fucking seed I found, I started to flower it.
And I looked at it and I was all, god damn, that plant's special.
I took a bud off of it.
And I put it back into and cloned it and everything like that.
And a little shoot came out.
That was rainbow.
Rainbow almost never happened because it was the first seed I fucking popped.
And my eye told me that I didn't take a clone off of it because it's the first fucking seed.
And that first fucking seed, I went and took a little white headed flower later on because
I liked the structure.
I liked everything about it.
That bitch started to get resin like in week two.
I'm growing hairs and resin.
This is kind of weird.
So it ended up revegging.
I actually think I took like 12 clones off of that plant.
Like 12.
I'll get off of the fucking plant with the buds.
Like I knew there's something was telling me that this plant, there's something about it.
So I took a ton of fucking cuts off of it.
One of them came out quick.
The next ones took a little longer.
There was one that took over a fucking year to actually finally grow out of that little
white tip.
But by then I had already flowered her ass, mothered, grown.
And you kept it around anyways because you were struggling to live?
Yep.
I still kept that bitch because I was like, I took you.
Bitch, you're going to live forever.
Yeah, you're going to keep fighting.
I'll let you live.
I remember I had a train wreck and it was when I decided to get rid of train wreck.
And I took it out.
And he was like the last clone in a solo cup at the time in an apartment.
I took it out and I set it on a table and I swear to God, two weeks later, I went by
and looked and that bitch was still alive, just living there and I'm like, I guess I'll
keep you again.
And I said it died.
Of course, after that, it died.
Of course, after that, I swear to God, would you, they can survive in the worst shit.
But once you bring them back and try to rebaby them, they're like, no, I don't like this.
Yeah.
You manually done something accidentally.
They want the fucking bawling gag and it'd be the fucking.
Real quick, I want to show these off because someone sent these in today.
My buddy Skidwill, I showed you these earlier, but these are the riot seeds.
Wall art and knuckle.
Look at that shit.
He made my logo 3D and made it perfect.
Now this is like the.
You showed me some other ones today too though.
Yeah, these ones.
This is actually our colors of our logo and stuff and artist signed on the back.
ACAB666 beautiful.
Look at that shit.
So yes, it's permanently mounted behind me now.
I wanted to thank Skidwilly for it.
It's always going to be right here.
So thank you Skidwilly for all the hard work.
That shit is amazing.
So yeah, I had to, I had to throw in some props.
So let's talk what you've been doing the past few years.
Yeah.
So.
Same shit I always do.
I go into a shell.
I go into me time.
I got to get away from everything.
I've been working like crazy.
My breeding projects.
I'm probably four or five projects in since the fucking original rainbow.
I did.
People kept asking me for female seeds.
So I did a female project with both reversing rainbow.
I didn't like how rainbow reverse.
She was hard to reverse.
So I took sis and sister reversed a lot easier.
And those female seeds are pretty fucking amazing.
Like I wish my buddy was in the chat right now.
Let me see if he's in here.
I see the podcast.
What's up the podcast?
I was looking for, I don't want to say his real name and I forgot his fucking his name.
Oh my goodness.
I have to get to some of these.
There's a lot of comments.
We're going to have to take a minute.
Oh yeah.
So anyways, oh, it's big to a crisp.
I wish baked was in here because rainbow sisters like rainbow, right?
But she's more purple and you get more of this chocolate menthol.
Then you do with the rainbow, you get like a hard to explain, pine-ish funk.
If you smoke rainbow in a room and like, you know, like, like, let's say I went down to your house.
You've smoked it.
You've seen it.
I could go to your house and you could smoke whatever you wanted.
And I can come in there and know when you smoke rainbow, she leaves this essence in
the fucking air of it.
I can't really explain.
Yeah.
Sister.
I can't explain.
It really carried the smoothness of chocolate.
Now you don't get the barrier, any of that back on the back end.
It's like menthol chocolate.
Yeah.
It's almost like one of those peppermint patties, but I don't want to say that because that's
the one that Dren liked, right?
The chocolate, the chocolate, you know, the rainbow.
Yep. Yep.
Yep.
That's the one.
Yep.
Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, so I reversed her and that's where I made a whole bunch of fucking fins with her.
I crossed so many strains that I actually liked, like I actually liked wedding cake.
So that's one of the newer strains that I liked.
And then I did a bunch of old stuff, triangle, the San Diego cut, which you have to grow or
because you have to, it's one that we've talked about for years.
Um, uh, shit.
What else did I fucking great pie?
Great pie crawl.
It's great too.
Yes, dude.
Uh, Ercol, uh, SR 71 or go whatever.
Fun.
And I swear they're the same plants that just kind of veered off into two different houses.
Yeah.
Right.
Uh, they just got, uh, just a bunch of stuff.
So that was one of the first projects you remember you were sending me the reversal
spray.
Yep.
That was like three fucking years ago.
Yes, it was.
It was like when we went to the cup.
Yeah.
It was when I got home, I sent you some spray.
You sent me the spray.
And then I did, um, uh, another rainbow, uh, uh, the triangle by rainbow.
I wanted to make some, I've been, I started obsessing over the old OGs, like unhealthily,
like obsessing with the older Gs.
So I took a triangle by rainbow and started hitting all my old OG cuts and making, uh,
regular rakes, regular seeds out of those.
And I did that project.
Regular seed lines.
Yeah.
And, uh, holy shit.
Um, there is some OGs that are coming out of there that you'll get to see that are, um,
it's like, holy fuck.
Like you actually did it.
You kind of brought OG like, like the OGs I remember back, you know, into, into the OGs.
OGs of nowadays are very different than what we remember the dank old OG.
I mean, like I can think of a few different like expressions that I'm used to seeing in OGs
and anything past that I don't really consider it OG because they weren't
the original expressions of it.
You know, dude, I've got like that old burnt rubber, that old acrid shit coming out of it.
You get that fucking, uh, lemon pine, saw shit coming out of some of them.
Um, we've got some really nice expressions out of them.
Um, once again, I grow, I have always bred for myself and it just so happens that people like
the same kind of stuff.
Some people like the same kind of stuff I like, you know, so some of the stuff I breed people like,
um, my flowers never are going to be your biggest yielder in your room.
It's just not what the fuck I look for.
Like, it's just not something you breed for.
Yeah.
That's not what I breed for, man.
I breed for the first, I like, uh, flavors and that's why I started obsessing over the OG.
I missed the gas.
Like I missed that gas.
I missed, and people say gas, but there's so much more complexity to it.
Like we were just talking, there was that acrid, like bile smell.
There's the fucking garlicky, funky gym socks smells.
There's just those bad smells, you know, I started missing that shit.
Everything was sweet now and everything was fucking the same.
Everything is the same.
That's where we all end up.
Everything was fucking purple punch.
I'm not shitting on purple punch when I say that, but everything started to look like
fucking purple punch or cookies or gelato and, or, and then gelato was like ice cream cake and
ice cream cake is back to purple punch looking shit.
Yeah.
That's why when I brought up wedding cake, because it is one of the newer ones, that's
all, Hey, that's pretty fucking nice.
Like, yeah, it's nice and piney and shit.
You know, a lot, a lot of people still like, um, wedding cake, despite it being all hypey
and in a lot of stuff, it still is a pretty good plant.
Despite all that.
I'm trying to find some good questions for us while we're going through.
Here's, here we go.
Here's a good question.
When was the first time you remember seeing Urkel smelly?
Hmm.
Fucking Christ.
99.
I think 99 ish.
99 ish.
I think right around there.
Um, God damn.
It was definitely nineties.
Um, let me, I don't know at the time it was actually called purple Urkel.
Yeah.
At the time when I started first seeing the purple strains.
Yeah.
Um, but those purple strains ended up becoming a lot of different fucking names.
Yeah, exactly.
And, uh, so I started first seeing those real purple strains in Northern California, um, in
that nineties.
So everything that was coming out was these big giant green spheres, but then all of a
sudden these little purple flowers in Jesus Christ, it like set the world ablaze.
And, um, and so that's, I grew a lot of Urkel, a lot, a lot of fucking Urkel, but I'm a
allergic to Urkel.
So I'm not allowed to grow it anymore.
I hate the kids allergic to it too.
She's everybody's seen that like the terpenes, like literally the terpenes in the air, like
the pollen it produces, it grips me to shreds.
It makes my immune system attack myself.
So fuck, fuck that plant.
Can't grow it no more.
And you mentioned that you mentioned you have an immune disorder too, right?
Like what do you find that works best for that?
Um, fuck water, drinking lots of water.
Weed wise though, like, uh, the good combos of sativas that don't get you jittery, but
it still gets you that, that motivation that, you know, like where I can get up and move,
but you don't, I, since I had a fib to go with my autoimmune disease and I've had heart
surgery and been shocked fucking so many times back to life, um, I cannot get elevated because
my heart's been up in the two forties before and they're all like, you hit in the crack
pipe and I'm all actually, I don't smoke.
I mean, you know, but, um, I'm going to die.
So you might want to fucking do something.
So the super sativas like, and that's why, like, I love to breed with them, but I have
to be really careful when I first breed with them.
So my first rounds after I smoke them and stuff, I usually will take like one hit and
just see where it's at.
Yeah.
And then if I don't get too elevated, I start to lean into it more, but that combination,
man.
And I do, I seen somebody had mentioned a CBD.
Yeah.
And, uh, I, I like CBD, uh, in my, in, I like smoking even like almost like hemp flowers.
There's some hemp flowers now that smell good.
Tastes good.
Oh yeah.
All that, uh, podcast, the shape shifter cut came from who's those dudes who do cement
shoes and, uh, classics.
Cool.
Classic.
I got that cut from, um, one of the cats, Marcus from yeah.
Cool.
Classic.
Yeah.
Uh, it's a pretty good cut.
That's why I worked with it.
I enjoyed that cut.
See what else we got here for you.
What are the questions where you got, um, someone was asking about, I have to ask, answer
this one.
Great.
Block blockhead by black sativa.
So the black sativa is an unknown fucking sativa.
The man who gave that to me is past.
He died years ago.
Um, he handed me some amazing strains.
So if you have the blockhead by black sativa with the rainbow and she's a beaut, like just
know that that came from a special place.
I don't know what black sativa is.
I'm assuming it's trying to black or a Vietnamese black or something like that.
Um, I called that shit garbage barge because it literally smelled like raw.
The trash.
I remember that.
Yeah.
Yep.
So the blockhead by black sativa is a special girl.
I love pot.
So I seen that, that, that Adam mentioned that shit.
Okay.
What about when smelly ran into AFCU first?
Do you have any experience with that?
Can we, I do, I, I'm pretty sure AFCU we would never stay in bench for me.
Um, she would just always pre flower constantly and it pissed me off.
So I ran her for a little while and that was it.
It wasn't one of the ones that like, for me that I was working with religiously.
So I don't have a lot, a lot of experience.
It was like the, you were bringing up, you had, what was the AK 47?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I had an AK 47 AFCU cross that literally just flowered under 24 hours away.
I think that sucks.
And it was fucking amazing, but you constantly took clones, clone, clone, clone.
Yeah.
You can't keep them in bed.
You can't keep it in bed.
So that was my experience with the AF GUI.
And it made me sad because it's a good fucking plant.
And I just, it wasn't made for my mom room.
I suppose.
Are we bottlenecking boys?
I don't, I don't know that, what that means.
I think people are confused about what bottlenecking means in cannabis, but if you
notice, like you can cross things into each other, try to make it a uniform line and still
can't happen in cannabis.
And if that can't happen, how are you bottlenecking anything really?
I mean, you can, you can increase inbred traits and like blueberry without bottlenecking too.
Yeah.
I think blueberry was so deep into its lineage.
I mean, what, 15, 20 times in like.
Yeah.
I don't, the one that I ended up with, I have no money.
It has like, they said that, so DJ was supposedly an F4 when they got it.
Some dude worked at four generations.
Another dude worked at another four generations and somehow kept the blueberry smell without
looking anything like blueberry or having mutations.
It's an interesting one.
It's a really.
I did a rowdy fly fishing.
I did get some lots of different Kim's from our friend in Santa Cruz.
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And I had a very, was it variegation kind of the fucking yeah.
Yeah.
And then I had a CIS.
I think he had one label Kim says Kim 91 and then the D I, they're good plants.
So all the Kim D was a good plant.
I mean, all of them were nice green, like kind of shit.
I like to smoke.
So no complaints for me like at all.
So I did finally, and I worked with Kim a bit as well.
I I've never really been a Kim person myself.
Like the chem 91 itself.
Like I don't like smoking it too much.
I think it's ugly.
I mean, there's a, it is a really well, like scumpy acre is a killer, but I cannot make
that plant look fucking pretty.
I actually did okay with it.
Like I could make her look decent enough, but no, you're right.
She doesn't find her way to the garden is very often.
Because I do have these other OG cuts that I love.
Somebody said something about a legend rainbow.
And I actually did that.
I did a legend OG by rainbow and one of the crosses recently.
That was like out of the OGs that you've crossed a rainbow, which is your favorite?
The San Diego.
Yeah.
For some reason triangle with rainbow, it really brings a lot of triangle because you've
got triangle in rainbow and triangle there.
So you get a lot of OG, but you, this San Diego, I, but once again, I wish I had one
of the, a friend of mine.
Uh, he's actually a really good friend.
God, that girl right there.
I love that one.
Goddamn.
I grow pretty weed.
That's a funny weed.
Dude.
The fucking that skittles by rainbow right there.
Yeah.
That's right here.
The name of it.
What was the name of it?
Shit.
Fluttershy.
I think.
So both of these are flutters.
They look like I wasn't sure.
They're both Fluttershy.
And what's funny is that is two different plants.
Oh, wow.
That's one's in my garden.
And one's in a friend's garden.
That's cool.
Which one do you think's in my garden?
I'm going to say the left looks like your photos.
Dude.
See the underneath shot, the one from up under that one's that was mine.
What?
That looks like yours on the left.
I don't know, but that's, what's crazy.
That fucking stupid skittles by rainbow.
They look almost identical.
And the fella who grew that one on the left, I call him meat hands because he breaks everything.
Wait, that's the dude that I met?
Uh-huh.
You fucking did Boston.
Yeah, I remember.
You did Boston.
Yeah.
I'm sorry.
Ham hands, if we're being.
Ham hands.
And ham hands make that bitch look like that.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Wow.
I honestly, I love pot again.
Once again, me and him talk quite often.
I truly believe blue dreams and skittles.
I truly believe it, especially with crossing with it and seeing it.
I've seen like blue dream looking plants come out of that shit.
Like it's a trip.
It might not be.
Where did you, do you know where you sourced your skittles cut at?
I got it from the, okay.
So, you know, the guy, I don't, I'm just going to say, I'm not going to say his name.
Do you actually know him?
He's from slow, San Luis Obispo.
He used to always be with gauge in them.
Okay.
And he works with the, what are they called?
Turpogs or whatever the fuck those dudes names are.
Before skittles became cool.
He was moving all their outdoor for him of the skittles.
Shit was Brown as fuck, but it had a good nose.
Yeah.
And I got it from him.
So it was an ugly ass plant.
Ugly as fuck.
And flower.
It just, I don't think the, yeah.
Even indoors.
It was fucking wanting to be Brown.
But right with rainbow rainbows.
I, Hey buddy, let's fuck.
Right.
Let's do this thing.
Right.
Yeah.
All right.
Here's a, did you guys down there run into the kind and if so, was it traceable back to
DJ or Washington growers?
I remember just a kind bud.
Yeah.
That's, that's how I remember it.
Like, so yeah.
So what we were getting back then, like coming out of the Humboldt, they would just call
kind bud or green bud or Humboldt and shit like that.
Yeah.
But the kind bud was more like a term for like, what is the new side exotic and shit
like that's used now we use kind, but in the nineties to describe, you know, good green
bud.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I still have seeds from those green buds that we were getting out of Humboldt in the nineties.
And it's literally on pieces of scratch paper and I have wrote it in pencil and it says
Humboldt on it.
Or then one would say Humboldt IBL and then one would say like Humboldt green.
I still have these seeds.
I mean, most of them are like pale tan white shit.
They've been in the freezer now for 20 years, but I kept them just in case.
Yeah.
I would, I think we'd have to have them get actually.
Like embryonic rescue.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Probably.
But I don't even know if it would be worth it because so you would get pounds and as you
go through the pounds at the bottom of the pounds, you'd find a few seeds, you know,
and when you were selling the pounds, you didn't want the buyers to see the seeds.
So I'd pull the seeds out of all the pounds as they were coming down from up north.
So I grew a bunch of those up in when I did the thousand pound row, a bunch of that was
the Humboldt stuff.
What was it?
That was the last time I smelled skunk.
That was the last time I smelled skunk.
Makes sense.
And we still have some of those seeds.
So there's definitely going to be some skunk scents in some of those seeds.
And that's the only reason why I would consider like trying to, I don't want to pop them because
I don't think they would grow.
You know what I'm saying?
Like I don't think so, but they're still like DNA inside of it.
Yeah.
I know what you mean.
Is it disappointing?
Like if they don't grow and then you wonder if you wasted that tissue for potential DNA
shit later down the line.
I told you, I showed you the pictures of the stuff I had from my dad's prison.
Yeah.
He was in prison and it was, he sent me fucking seeds because he's a weirdo.
I can see in this fucking little correctional envelope and those seeds were all like fossilized.
Literally, they were like crystallized on the inside.
Oh yeah.
No idea what those fucking seeds were.
But if he was sending them to me, that was his last jail stint.
That wasn't like when I was a baby, but later in life.
So I was like, what the fuck?
You know, you're sending me seeds from jail.
These must be special.
And then somehow they got put into a box and that box got put into the garage.
How did he end up with seeds in jail?
Who fucking knows?
That guy, I'm telling you, man.
Well, supposedly I was conceived while he was in jail.
Oh, I can see that.
My mom just got to cruise out there, you know, and be like, Hey, what's up?
So we're going to make a baby.
Yeah.
We're going to make a fucking baby.
It's the seventies, who cares?
It's ridiculous.
That's a good way to get, that's a good way to know that you're special is when you're,
when your mama went to jail to make babies.
Yeah.
For you, for bringing you into this world.
Yeah.
It's all like, ah, I heard you were conceived when you were in jail.
That's probably a good one.
So someone's asking, are those chocolate, uh, Thai seeds, small, medium or large?
Uh, well, you, I have some that are tiny, tiny ones.
And then I have also bred some that are large.
I think it really depends like the male.
Sometimes the male lets the little seeds come out.
Sometimes the weird thing with some of the Thai ones is you'll get these really big fucking
airy, weird seats, like, like almost white seeds in it, but they're there.
They grow like they, they look pale.
Oh, they're big.
Yeah.
But they still fucking grow, you know?
And it's, I think a lot of it is because I don't want to let her go for 487 days to become
black seeds.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No.
I have some, uh, that are really tiny.
Um, when was the, the, was it the green, the green, green tie, um, what'd they call that
one?
There was a green something tie.
That's really tiny.
The smallest seeds I've ever seen are those African seeds.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The Ugandan seeds are like the size of a pinhead.
Like they are like tiny, like some of them are fucking like little bitty black specs.
Uh, I've had some from the Mekong Delta, uh, Delta nine labs used to sell them the, the,
they were the Mekong haze.
He called them, but there's no haze in it, but it was just a Cambodia land race that
went 26 weeks, but they were tiny, tiny, tiny black.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Tiny black is fuck.
Like black as yeah.
And they were tiny little shits, but the tie seeds are weird.
Like I've seen variations of the tie, but, uh, once again, though, like I do, I only
had so many pure tie seeds at the time.
Like, it wasn't like I had an infinite supply of those fuckers, you know?
So like, uh, with, uh, Revs Revs, Tyceys, I actually still have three of, uh, the original
seeds.
I found, uh, the cherry and I have, I have like 20 or 30 of those cherry ties left.
Yeah.
And they're, they're decent size seeds.
They're not like, yeah, they're normal, a normal fucking seed.
Uh, someone asked if you're working any cool tire Southeast Asians, where's that?
Uh, any cool tie Southeast Asian plant, uh, varieties in the vault you're planning on
working with in the near future?
Well, everything with rainbow has lots of tie and I've backed it to cherry tie.
I backed it to chocolate tie.
Um, so I, I love my ties.
Um, and like we were talking about, like finding the ties that the hot room, that mushroom
filling, right.
Yeah.
That took away all my pain, but it scared never.
I used to do a lot of fucking LSD.
So let me just put that out there.
A lot of fucking LSD.
So having flashbacks from weed, is it fun?
Like, what the fuck is going on?
I started seeing submarine sandwiches walking around on the ceiling and how easy shit.
Yeah.
It's all, Oh my God.
I am so fucking high right now.
Um, yeah, I will forever work with time.
Uh, yeah, yeah.
Uh, I, I just like, I like, I know some people, you know, don't like the structure and don't
like the stretch and those things, but I like to take a plant, put it in the flower
and have her grow into, you know, a tree.
And as I flip, I don't want to bench for two and three fucking months.
Like I don't want to grow these.
The electricity in California is so fucking expensive.
The least amount of time for growing leaves, the better.
So I like my plants to stretch.
Like some people fucking hate it, but that's a warning.
When you buy things with rainbow, you might find a mutant, but you might find the most
stretching plant you've ever seen in your fucking life, like wild fucking plant.
So keep, keep that in mind.
Keep that in mind.
Keep that in fucking minds.
Cause somebody is going to get a pack of, uh, assists as S ones tonight.
I don't know.
How do you want to, how do we want to do the giveaway?
I don't know.
Somebody is going to get a pack of the S one, uh, rainbow sister that I'm obsessing over
right now.
Um, how can, what can we do to give it away?
Like, I don't know.
There's a random person.
Like, I don't know, like guess the number.
I'll write a number down and everyone, unless like three people guess the same number.
Yeah.
Whoever guesses it first, let me have a fist fight for it.
Oh, how's the RVK work coming along?
I love red vine.
I will forever, ever work with red vine.
I did red vine by rainbow.
Um, I am going to be reworking with a new male from those seeds eventually.
But like I was saying, I have so many fucking, I'm just a critter.
Like, I don't know how to explain myself with seeds other than like a fucking inch critter.
Like, like I just got an itchy about and fucking work and work and work.
Um, usually, uh, Welsh, uh, you will find a keeper in every pack.
Um, most of the people on here who have bought seeds from me would, I would hope would vouch,
uh, vouch for that.
I found something that they enjoyed in my seeds.
Um, uh, let's see somebody else.
Should I grab to find that lemon pledge?
Oh, gee profile.
I need a good OG.
Oh, the San Diego by rainbow or even the triangle by rainbow.
It's fucking weird.
Uh, the San Fernando Valley.
Look, so I did work.
SFE with rainbow.
I did.
I, I, I did a cross with that, but then I started hearing some weird shit about SFE
and, and, uh, that there was lies tied with it and, uh, some other stuff.
So I only released those to some friends as freebies and shit like that and stuff.
Um, so I never sold any of, I don't think I sold it.
I don't think we sold any of this.
I don't think I just gave him away as freebie packs.
You'll also find out when you buy seeds from me, I am way too fucking generous and just go,
here's three packs of goddamn seeds for a fucking price of one.
And I just give away shit.
Cause I'm a weird, I like being nice.
Where did they buy your gear right now?
No, I don't have it on any sites right now.
Um, Mr.
Matthew here, right here.
I'm circling with my mouse is going to be taking care of that for me next fucking week.
The next round of stuff we'll be carrying on the right side.
So if people are looking forward to it, just hold your horses and we'll get it up there as soon as,
as soon as we slowly can.
See, uh, I love a pot.
Oh, and why is he the bond bonds?
I'm telling you the fucking red wine gas, right?
But I'm shit.
You not, it's the weirdest thing.
Red vine likes to come out in these crosses just randomly.
And you will find this red vine licorice, or like he said, like a cherry fucking wine.
Yeah.
And it's, it's a trip.
It's a fucking trip, man.
Um, yeah, I, but I think, uh, that, uh, I love a pot has probably grown a lot of my seeds.
Yeah.
I think that, yeah, I think he's grown a lot of my seeds.
Uh, he's a good, he's a good guy.
I have several fellas in here who have grown a lot of my seeds.
Um, the bond bond was a fucking great one.
Um, I'm sorry, I'm trying to, uh, uh, read up.
Oh, I see somebody asking what is rainbow?
Okay.
So fifth season, I'll go over it again because somebody, uh, did say some lies about what
rainbow was, uh, my brother.
Yeah.
So rainbow started off with what I was saying, the story earlier from a friend of mine named
smoke from Canada, and he called it chocolate time.
Okay.
And then the Revs cherry tie.
And that's the cross that I made that made me, you know, I, I, I'm not kidding.
My wife would vouch for it.
I lost track of time.
I went late in bed.
She had to keep coming and checking on me.
I had to keep asking her how long it's been.
Like I was in, I was in a place, man.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I was in a fucking place that was uncomfortable for like, you know, like I was younger back
then, but I had stopped doing LSD.
I stopped doing mushrooms.
I had stopped expanding my mind.
And now all of a sudden after years, like my brain is going through some shit and it
wasn't comfortable.
So, okay.
So, uh, smokes, chocolate, Revs, cherry, right?
So then I took a mail from that.
And I was, I, like I told Matt knows I love OGs and, uh, triangle has been one of my,
like go-to OGs for breeding back in the day.
So, um, I hit a triangle with the mail and then that's when I found the red vine and
I didn't really work with those anymore.
It was done.
The red vine was it fucking red vine was my jam.
That was it.
I remember, I remember that era.
Yeah.
That was it.
And then I thought OGKB came out and I said, well, fuck man, that plant's like that it's
that duck foot.
Like it was that plant, that weirdo plant.
So I took a mail from the red vine, which is the chocolate and the cherry plus the triangle.
And now I take a mail from that to the OGKB and that's the story with the first fucking
seed was what I ended up.
I did not name that by the way.
No, a three-year-old did.
Uh, she has the best names.
She is now fucking 13 now.
She's 13.
Oh, she's 12.
She was a little girl.
She'll be 13.
Wow.
I know.
So, um, that little girl, I was on the phone.
It was you and me talking.
And then my friend, uh, my friend Ryan and I were talking and I was telling him about
like, I found this fucking plant and I, I've never seen anything quite like it, the way
it stacks, the way the resin is, but it was that smell and that turd.
And I kept saying, Oh, gee, Oh, gee, Oh, gee.
So I get off the phone, you know, and she looks at me.
She goes, daddy, I know what you can name your plant.
And she's in there watching my little phone.
And he says, what's that?
She's all rainbow SSOG.
All right.
So the SS has no meaning.
It's literally, it's not fucking Nazi shit.
It's not fucking, it's not a sunset Sherbert.
It's not sour something.
Or yeah, literally this is a child's brain who named it rainbow because she loved rainbows.
And she heard me talk about OGs.
I don't know where the SS came from, but she said rainbow SSOG.
And I was all done.
Done.
Smarter than both of us combined.
I'll go with her.
Instantly.
Instantly.
Because I was good to name it all that shit I told you.
Yes.
The label would have been fucking all this shit that went into it.
And now there's people, so many different people trying to push different rainbows.
So it's been Mark and unicorns, rainbows and unicorns, man.
It's fucking out of control with the rainbow.
And you were the one that was super flaming for doing it.
Now everyone's flaming with you.
I know.
Well, here's the fun thing.
I don't think I've said it very often.
I made a bet that I could name, like do this plant.
The kid would name it these pony things and all this stuff.
And I would have grown ass men talking about my little ponies and stuff like that.
And I fucking won that bet.
Yes, you did.
Because look, there's my gay time unicorn pops.
How good did those look, though?
Are those real?
That was real.
They're like those strawberry ones, but with chocolate.
Chocolate and fucking glitter.
That's so fucking good.
Unicorn blood and shit like that.
I'm gonna get with the gay time for sure.
I believe that was one of our Australian friends who sent me that picture.
That's amazing.
Yeah.
Oh my God.
God, Sam.
Hey, so right there, I got that peppery white widow.
I actually was just telling Matt the other day, I still have some of the original, like
back when the controversy split, white widow, black widow, blah, blah, blah.
Those seeds are being done.
I still have some of those originals.
I love that strain.
Yeah.
And SS is for boats, right?
That's fucking great, Barack Obama.
It's true, man.
It is for boats.
And I understood that, but I didn't think a little kid
like the SS man.
I didn't think the three-year-old would know what it was.
I always thought it was shoot stopping or whatever.
Dude, somebody asked me that once.
That's why I was being very clear.
Yeah.
Hey, is that like a Nazi stuff?
Nozzle? Nope.
No, there's none.
No, no, but my stream Fluttershy 88 might have some.
I know.
Yeah.
You might want to check fucking Fluttershy or fucking Applejack.
Applejack.
Applejack.
Applejack.
We have a couple of SS's on our line quarters.
A few lightning bolts might happen.
Fucking Christ, man.
I was like, you see how gay my stuff is?
It's all super pink and everything.
You don't really think I'm a Nazi.
Oddly enough, we were drawn to each other.
I know.
And we've actually been to a rest stop together.
Yeah, there was.
We had Starbucks together.
Yes, we did, dude.
You can't get much more romantic than that shit.
We had lots of it.
I mean, do you remember on the drive up how like half of California was on fire
and like people were lighting the highway on fire as we were driving up?
Yeah, yeah.
So weird.
It was fucking insane.
Yeah, like people were lighting it on fire as we were driving.
Like as we were driving.
Yeah.
They had like blow torches.
Yeah.
Torch guns.
And they were just catching the road on fire.
I fucking insane.
Yeah, that was a weird one.
I remember we went to some Mexican food restaurant like Delano.
It was pretty.
Oh my God.
That was the best fucking beans I've ever had in my life.
Beans and rice.
I felt so bad because I don't eat when I travel.
Yeah.
Because I don't have a colon.
It was removed.
Yeah.
And I ordered beans and rice and I took a bite and I cried.
Because I should have.
It was fucking the greatest.
I was a Mexican food snob.
And that shit was.
It was so good.
I remember wanting to drive back and get more rice before.
I got it done.
And I was like, fuck.
Hold on.
We need to just turn around.
Let's get some.
Put it in the ice chest and we'll have it in the fucking hotel when we get there, man.
God.
Yeah.
I miss.
Dude, I've drove the 99 trying to find that like visualize it.
But we were so dead.
I can't like I knew it was like this little standy story thingy.
And we got off of the road and it was like kind of in the middle of nowhere.
It was my Delano, I think.
Yeah.
And we did like a little roundabout and it was like a dirt area.
Yeah.
And a little parking lot.
I stayed out.
PD had to piss.
Yeah.
I had this.
I needed to smoke.
And I went inside.
Yeah.
You went inside and got fucking rice.
So I said, yeah, I want I want to try beans and rice too.
Yeah.
Be a big boy.
I went in and just asked the girl.
Will you do a bowl of beans and rice and then like a tortilla on the side?
She's like, do you just want to be in a rice burrito?
I said, no, no, no.
Listen, listen, you do a fucking eat with a tortilla on the side, because if I get that
burrito, I'm going to eat that motherfucker.
Yeah.
But if I just start dipping little bits of tortilla, I'll be an anorexic fucking weirdo.
And you're like, you better stop eating.
You're going to shit your pants.
Oh, fuck, man.
God, that was a car full of fucking morons.
We did a live.
We did a live.
We did do it.
That was one of my first very first life eats ever.
We did a fucking live.
And I remember people are asking me questions on why I used.
Aloe or something when I was cloning and I was I was yeah, and I was just like, I thought
it was always obvious, like it's free cloning gel, you know, like like I was like, because
I'm a cheap ass.
Yeah, because I'm cheap and it works.
And it fucking works.
Yeah.
So I remember that it was one of the questions that stick out for some reason.
Yeah, that was one of the first I think I started doing life eats a week before that
to build up to the Emerald Cup because I was going to be bringing a bunch of seeds and
I was like, hey, we're going to be there, blah, blah, blah.
And then on the way there was probably my second or third ever live stream.
And then now it just never stopped and they couldn't get rid of me.
Oh, you don't.
Now you're.
Yeah, I feel so bad that so many people have typed stuff.
If there is something I'm going to look for like five minutes right now, I promise.
If there's something you want me to answer, type it in because I'll look right now because
I feel bad.
We're looking.
People are spending time writing this stuff and I feel like an asshole.
SS is for super sexy and I'm all like, look at all this.
Exactly.
Look at all this.
Didn't you know?
I turn around and show him a little fucking brown eye in the back door.
They're all like, whoa, hold it.
There's so many chair.
It's like a werewolf.
Britt was asking me that question the other day.
She was asking why guys have to white more than once.
Yeah, we have.
We have respect there.
Yeah, we just want to hang on.
I want to hang on for dear God damn life.
Especially if you've got mush, but then you got fucking problems.
Who shot JFK?
Probably several people.
Probably several people.
Yeah, it seems like it.
Wait, I don't know, though, because I have been hearing.
I have been hearing that JFK is alive and doing well.
Yeah, that is true.
I'm just saying I'm just.
Railing out coke right now as we speak.
And there's a variety you found you really like.
There was the oh, God, what was the brother's haze that was coming out?
Santa Cruz.
Hey, brothers, that's just his brothers.
Yeah, God damn.
Yeah, that was the haze.
But I cannot smoke it anymore.
Yeah, I bet that can imagine.
It just fucking wrecks me.
I still can smoke Blue Dream, though, and Blue Dream has some haze.
I yeah, I love it.
It has haze in it and it was coming out of the same area that the Hayes brothers are
working in.
And they call it Santa Cruz.
Hey, Santa Cruz, he's had these brothers.
He's so I I'm not saying that that's the haze that they use.
But for Blue Dream to be so fucking special, I would bet a dollar that it was.
There's definitely some haze in it.
I mean, it was super silver haze, I believe by a Kentucky.
I can't remember the name of the company that originally made the super silver haze.
Did you short to blueberry cross?
It was used.
But yeah, yeah, it was something.
So I still like that one.
And that's where I like.
I like that.
I like that mixture because I can smoke Blue Dream and not get the jitters.
I think it's because of the blueberry in it.
It just it is anti anxiety.
I love it.
I love blueberry like by itself.
Like I love to smoke old blueberry that tastes like blueberry and it doesn't get super high.
That's why I like growing Calio, too.
There's probably nine percent THC in that fucking plant.
I love smoking the shit out of it because I can smoke old joint.
No, I'm ready to go to do shit.
Yeah, right.
Fucking spaz attack in the corner.
Not like twitching.
Yeah, dude, it's fucking terrible.
OK, so have you grown out Mongo or pure gooey?
How do you compare it to different than after?
Do you remember that one from a reader?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I'm not like super up to speed on GUI breeders.
I know what he did and stuff, but I had not got around to growing.
I haven't I've never grown any of it either myself, to be honest.
I have a lot of friends that like the glue gluey clone.
Yeah, I never grown any myself.
God, RKS.
So literally my first memory in life ever, my first memory in life.
I was on a boat fishing with my uncle.
I was still like in baby diaper stuff and it was dark and the skunks were just spraying everywhere.
And as a kid, that's what I thought.
It was I was just leave.
It was just that's all the same memories I had with my dad was that and to this day,
people don't understand it.
But I can't like if I smell a skunk that has sprayed an area and it's a few miles away,
I equate that with weed or burning weed.
I love skunk.
Yeah, I like the smell of it.
As a matter of fact, I had a homie send me some skunk tincture here today and I opened
it in the house and bring it.
And I was like, oh, my dad had a pet skunk when he was a kid.
They took the bag out.
That motherfucker grew its back back and sprayed him in his fucking face.
I see another one of my friends right there.
Taylor Graham.
Taylor.
Oh, God.
Grow techniques, man.
I think you and I have had that.
Dry and curing.
Yeah, so I drying and curing.
I like the first few the first day or two.
I like to get a large amount of moisture out.
I don't want to say quickly.
God, it's so hard for me to say this because people might take it wrong and say, oh, it's
going to be weird.
So I leave all my leaves on the big water leaves.
I take off all bud leaves, stay on everything like that.
So with that, we're saying that it's holding a lot of moisture.
So I get a lot of air movement in the room, but not on the plants.
There's just a lot of air movement.
And then I have a lot of air coming out and getting clean and coming in.
We're constantly flipping the humidity around and out.
And those first few days are really, really important because if you let it stay wet too
long, you're going to lose some of that crispness.
In my opinion, you're going to lose some of that crispness to the terpenes.
So I get a quicker, like dry at the beginning, and then I slow that motherfucker down.
Then I pick it back up.
So it's so weird.
I don't do this classic, keep it one percentage across the board.
I literally am in and out of my dry rooms, checking them fucking multiple times a day,
that kind of stuff.
I will raise humidity, lower humidity.
So for me, I am probably one of the worst people to learn to grow from because-
Because of all the life.
It's all in my brain that I'm constantly fucking doing.
Even when I'm feeding plants, I go and check the plants and I go, okay, this is where I am.
This is what I do.
So it's like when I leave and PD has to come and fucking help, oh God, everything gets ruined.
I'm sure.
I mean, yeah.
Yeah.
I now do not go any vacations or anything while I'm growing, unless I can fill my reservoirs
and be back before they're empty and he just waters and stuff like that.
But be anal about it.
Constantly check them, fill your buds, put your hands on it, smell them, see where it is.
You want that crispness.
Yeah.
I like how your buds dry and how to keep some of the moisture content, but it's not like
you don't get black ash or anything crazy.
It's just enough to go sticky still.
Yeah.
It's clean.
He's got it down.
It's some of the best weed I've ever smoked.
Him and Pitsweed are my two tops.
I appreciate that.
Fernando, the chirps on rainbow.
I can't.
I get asked a lot, Matt, what do you-
The chirps on rainbow.
It's like a piney, funky-
I compare the chirps on the rainbow clone, the actual rainbow clone to a very turpy OG
with some doughy notes.
Yeah.
I suck at smells.
Almost like sourdough bread with OG.
Like a fucking sourdough starter.
The other one, my favorite cut is the chocolate one.
That was Brynn's favorite.
That's the one she loved.
I like it because it had more of an anti-anxiety high, kind of like a blueberry does for me.
Yeah.
Matt will have C&C next week.
I think what I'm going to do, you guys, on this release is the
Femmes.
The reason I'm going to do the Femmes is I've grown hundreds of them, and I am really proud
of them.
They're really kicking out a lot of really nice stuff.
The rainbow cyst made a lot of nice crosses.
Oh, I got a cramp in my fucking leg from reading all those numbers.
I fucking-
Scarecrow, you already won.
Scarecrow's already won the first one, right?
Okay.
Scarecrow's already won one.
The flowering times on the chocolate cherry tie, that was what was funny, is the rev had got-
That's why I questioned the cherry on the cherry tie.
Yeah.
Because the rev had got it under 70 fucking days.
His whole goal was to shorten it, and the rev went hard on that project.
That chocolate cherry, though, that made me go crazy legs, Rowdy, I grew it outdoors into
November.
It was, I think, 18 feet tall or so.
It was as high as the fucking barn, and the barn was two stories.
I should have never smoked that marijuana.
I should have smoked that marijuana, I'll tell you.
Yeah, I should have done that.
But it did put me-
I do have some blue dream crosses.
I do have some TK crosses with the-
They're going to be Femmes.
It will be Blue Dream by Rainbow Cysts, TK by Rainbow Cysts.
There is the SD by Rainbow Cysts.
There is actually the-
I know this one's going to-
But it actually bred so well, the 70-
London Pound Cake 75.
That one breed pretty well?
It fucking bred really well with Rainbow.
All it did was linsed flavor.
It's all in.
Yeah, like a lot of lemon or-
Yeah, yeah.
And my favorite OG is called-
I've called it the San Diego cut or the San Diego OG.
That is my favorite OG.
I don't really know exactly what this, and like they said, Alex said, triangle.
I believe that San Diego and Triangle are the same fucking plant
that were in two different people's gross.
And I acquired both of those cuts, but had been on two different paths.
Like person A kept really good care of their cut.
And person B might not have taken as good care of his cut.
And that one time that that plant had a little regression,
changed the plant just a little bit.
So Triangle, San Diego, fuck, man.
On a deserted island, I could only have one.
I don't know.
I don't know.
It'd be a rough.
That'd be a rough fucking go for me.
They're like equal.
They're equals.
Yeah, I can't pick a few just to take on a desert island.
There's several I want to bring.
I'm too much of a flavor person and smells person.
I'll have like 14, 15 jars when I grow that I keep and I'm all, oh, that was so good.
Oh, that was so good.
And I prefer to smell 14 different flowers and then go through and pick it.
And then it's the whole breaking it up.
I still break up my fucking weed with my fingers.
Yes, I can get.
And then I roll my joints and I still use little, little like to be able to feel how
it's breaking up.
Yeah, I like to be all of like every last bit of it.
I like how it's tried.
And yeah, you don't get that from a grinder.
Nope.
That's what's cool about the San Diego cut.
It breaks up this.
You get this tiny little stem at the end and it's this sticky leaves of funk, nasty.
So I was shucking some of those seeds.
I wish she was in here, but she's not.
I was shucking some of those seeds the other night.
My friend who is in here, actually, I'm not going to say who you are, but he's in here.
He knows who he is.
And I was shucking seeds a couple of weeks ago and I told him the story to the wife of
the wife came in pissed that one of the dogs had pissed all over the house.
Yeah, they had just pissed everywhere.
And she's all there's piss in the fucking house.
And then she looks at me, she goes, it's the weed.
That's how pissy some of these OGs can be to people like people can like this cut to
some to my wife smells like piss to me.
It doesn't like at all.
Like, yeah, but it's that weird.
Yeah.
Like that.
Yeah.
That fuck that ammonia shit.
Yeah, that amount.
Yeah.
So I can't find 296, but I did find 297.
You found 297.
I found 297 and all that shit.
It was I love pot.
So if someone wants to grow your shit, so we're sure I love pot.
Also had the 279.
And that was when I was all like, oh, my God, somebody has it flip.
All right.
Hey, I love this one right before that is 293.
So I love that on, you know, me.
Send me the fucking message on Instagram.
You know, the routine.
I don't have to tell you.
You said it so much earlier than everyone else do.
Dude, I know.
I know, dude.
I'm so thank you.
You guys are fucking playing that game.
I love doing that shit.
It's fucking awesome.
Yeah, I appreciate everyone coming.
Yeah, I like how I just put this up here to answer that question.
And then I see the icon.
I'm like, oops, oops.
Yeah, who is that fucking creepy shit?
But yeah, I do.
Are you still in here?
I love pot.
If not, I know you on IG, so I will just hit him up.
Yeah, let me see.
Is he still in here?
Thanks, everybody.
Yeah, you can.
The beast.
OK, so.
Yeah, I dare I see it.
There we go.
You know what to do.
I love pot.
Just hit me up on the IG and I'll give you a few varieties you can pick from.
Yeah, if you want Rainbow Sys S1.
That's if you I would take Rainbow Sys S1 or whatever.
I'd like to have Smelly on more as long as we can wrangle each other and get it settled.
We'll do it more.
Yep.
You guys, I would I love doing this kind of shit.
I actually haven't been nervous in a long time with you and I were first talking earlier.
This is a big deal.
When that countdown got 28, I was like, what are these feelings?
What is this shit in my chest?
I was all instantly like, all right, it's it's go time.
It's time to start making fucking words.
I started to start making words and smiling.
Yeah, I feel like you want to be here.
Yeah, fucking say a bunch of weird shit about weird stuff.
Dude, we didn't even scratch the surface, though.
I know.
Story time.
I know we have been an hour and a half.
So much more to cover.
Dude.
Yeah, we have a lot to.
And now that I know he can get online like a like a big boy and get on this.
Yeah, holy shit.
So we'll be I'll be coming on more often, I suppose.
I do have NL5 crosses as well.
I don't have NL5 Hayes crosses, but I have Hayes crosses with Rainbow Sys.
I can send you some NL5.
I have seeds that.
Yeah.
And I have my brother's NL5.
He didn't create NL5.
You know, I have the cuts.
Yeah, I have the cut that he possesses and I've worked with.
Before we go, here's a quick one.
Did your brother create Purple Urkel?
No.
OK, thank you.
That's it.
Yeah, that's it.
That's a question everybody wanted, I'm sure.
So there you go.
It's come on.
Like I can't.
I love my brother hates me right now.
Yeah, he's so I want to I'm going to say it's story just two minutes.
OK, so when I created Rainbow and I started growing it, my brother called me.
He I never call.
We never call.
We would text.
He called me and asked me for a rainbow.
He said, hey, give me Rainbow.
I'll work with it and we can release the seeds as a brother.
I had already literally sit fucking back all my seats.
I had already worked these lines.
I so deep into it.
And he wanted basically the finished product and to sell it and say, like, you know, a
brother project.
He wasn't interested in you starting your own company.
I think which was the he was interested in you doing it yourself or you making the money.
He was interested in you giving the work to him.
And I didn't I wasn't interested in selling fucking seeds.
Yeah, you literally convinced me to do it.
Like you're the person who encouraged me, who like we're all like, hey, you guys, this
guy fucking knows like things are in stuff and like he grows really well.
So I'm going to make him sell you seeds.
I'm going to make him put his shit on the market.
I'm going to make him put it on the market.
I'm going to make him put it on the market.
And I fucking put it on the market.
And I can't appreciate the amount of friends that I've met now and the conversations I've
had on Instagram.
I know I don't post on there, but I still do come and have conversations with so many
of you guys.
And like and I really do appreciate that because there's some nights when I feel like shit.
And one of you guys send me a message and I like we start conversing and some of us
have had conversations for fucking hours, you know, just by just chat.
So that is where it started.
Then they came to my daughter's birthday and were mad at me for selling them to Matt.
And one of the auctions that we did got a few of the auctions that we did got really
high.
Yeah.
I cannot control what people.
I was fucking I was freaking out.
I was telling Matt like that's too much money.
Yeah, literally.
That's like I have to send this person all of my seeds because they're spending this
much.
I did.
I literally they won like a pack of seeds in the auction.
I sent them like four packs because that's too much fucking money.
And then that happened like ten times.
Like, yeah, we did like ten auctions.
I was expecting like three, four hundred dollars.
No, there were some of them that were like two and three thousand fucking dollars.
And I freaked out like I was on.
No, like it's not worth it.
So.
OK, so and they that.
Really got them mad.
And then one of one of you guys who are my friends sent me some screenshots of some pretty
terrible stuff that was said about me behind my back.
And so at that point, I was like, you know what, if you don't like if you don't want
to be like my brother, like this is not be like brothers like.
Yeah.
And it is what it is.
You know what I'm saying?
Like I have never spoke on this.
I know for fucking years, for years I've had this and I've know I've been ran down.
Like I know I've been ran down.
Like I know I've had shit talked about me and lie said about me and bullshit like that.
If you have questions about me or something, just come and ask me, man.
I'll fucking.
He's very much an open book like I am.
Just ask him.
Yeah.
And yeah, I'm not going to fucking lie to you.
It's like when people ask me about AFGUI, I'm like, I don't know.
Yeah, I didn't really grow it.
The only time I ever had a bitch fucking flower than veg, like I couldn't grow it well,
like I sucked it growing AFGUI.
I yeah, so but that's I wanted to give that little bit.
There's so much more to it, but that's about it that I'll say unless somebody wants, you know,
to know more or whatever.
So we haven't spoken in three years.
Three years.
Yeah, it's been a few years.
We both wish on the best.
And like I always said, like I said to you, even at the beginning, like me and your brother
weren't necessarily cool, but we were always cool.
So I had no reason to like not like him.
And I was always cool to him.
And I always thought, well, he had made good shit.
I thought he made good shit.
And there was no reason to make anything up.
That's the Illuminati telling us to wrap the motherfucking shit.
Yeah, you talk too much.
You said too much, man.
You said too many fucking words.
So yeah.
So everyone, this is my boy Smellboat.
He's over on Instagram at Smellboat.
Easy to find.
And we're going to have his seeds up on the Right Seed Shop, Rightseeds.com.
You get the Feminize spray there, everything else.
And yeah, man.
I appreciate you guys listening to me spew fucking shit for almost two hours.
Literally, it was the tip of a fucking massive iceberg.
There's so much more shit we can speak about.
We didn't even get into like being where the cookie fuckers grow and white label with their
P.M. and their fucking buds and burn your back door and bounce.
It's just so much goddamn shit.
So the next time I'm on, I will get into that detail.
I was there with these two eyes seeing that shit.
We'll do it within maybe within the end of maybe within a few weeks.
A few weeks or a month.
We'll do it.
You got it, brother.
I will be here.
All right, you guys, anyone have questions?
Hit them up.
This is my boy.
And thanks for coming and showing up.
Thanks, man.
I know it's last minute and I really appreciate you do all the time.
Anytime you need me, I'm here.
All right, brother.
Later, guys.
Take care.
Want more Breeder Syndicate?
Be sure to check out our Patreon by going to Google and searching Breeder Syndicate Patreon.
We have a secret Discord where we are available at most times and interact daily.
There are a lot of perks to be had there.
So check it out.
Need seeds?
Check out Rightseeds.com where you can get our seeds and our reversal spray for making
your own feminized seeds.
