Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Hi. Hope that woke you up. Our next speaker, Sam
Maranto, is the State Director for MUFON Illinois. Early this year, the
ufological community, if that's even a word, was rocked by a headline about a
UFO sighting over Chicago, the O'Hare Airport. What made this so interesting
was the amount of traffic that this one particular story attracted from the
internet. I believe that the stats were well over a million hits and in the
history of ChicagoTribune.com, no story had ever pulled that traffic. So if
anybody tells you there's no interest in UFOs, I think that's proof enough. Sam
Maranto is an investigative researcher who goes out into the field,
researches not only the O'Hare sighting, but many sightings even outside of
Illinois. So let me welcome to the stage Mr. Sam Maranto, and for the first time
I've ever said, Maestro hit it, and MUFON Maestro hit it.
Snappy little ditty, isn't that? Well I figure if Michael Shermer could bring
his toys to the Larry King show, I could bring a little music to MUFON
symposium. That's some serious lights. Wow. What I'm going to be talking about today is
the O'Hare incident. I'm going to cover a little bit of that, and then I'm going to be covering a little
about an incident in my backyard, which is the area known as Tinley Park. And we had a
series of sightings out there, mass sightings back in 2004. I'm also going to
jump into the correlation with other sightings in and about those times in
other states. Also going to show you some footage that I think is some of the
most remarkable footage from each of these events. What I'd like to do is
first give you a little bit of information about the O'Hare incident.
First of all, anybody here never hear of the O'Hare incident? Anybody? Never heard
about it? You've been in Papua New Guinea recently.
Ok, because this went viral. I mean, within a short period of time after this
story broke January 1st by John Hilkovich and the Chicago Tribune, that
story went on the wires before he was able to pop the cork on his champagne
that New Year's Eve. By the second of January, it was literally all over the
world. It was in international press. He was doing interviews, in fact, on the
first for stations down in Australia. Now we're going to show you some footage
from actually YouTube and a few other things from CLTV where the story
actually was aired for the first time. He actually talked about it the Friday
before the first and the interview is pretty interesting. We're also going to
show you some footage of the interview on CNN of an actual individual that was
there at the ramp, one of these ramp rats, or else, was it the ramp rat? One of them, or
else the pilot. Then we're going to see a little fox piece that I was involved with
and show you the quality difference in some of these. So if we can run the first
video DVD and hopefully we can.
Hey John. Hey Jim, how are you? Well fine thanks, how are you?
Busy with this UFO stuff. Oh my god. Did you see it hit the Fox crawl on Monday night?
Did it? It's just been everywhere. I mean I've been on CNN, did my fourth appearance today.
Really? Every MSNBC, every network. Oh my goodness.
And just worldwide. Australia, everywhere.
That's what we're going to start off. I'm going to say, John the response has been well out of this world, hasn't it?
Congratulations. So where's the latest on the investigation? The FAA?
This is going on actually before it's actually here.
United is now acknowledging that they were approached by employees. So they've done that flip flop.
I'm trying to locate photos of this. I'm told there may be photos.
Wow. He sweats like a bear. That would be cool.
I'm told that the story on CT has almost a million hits.
Yeah, it's the most read story in the history of ct.com.
Are you kidding me? I got an email yesterday from Bill Addy.
For one million hits on their website. And this was the afternoon.
Yeah, the entire history of the website. Of the first.
Incredible. Incredible. So does the possibility exist? You might get the pictures and get them in for tomorrow?
Actually, I don't think so. I mean I'm told the pilots on that plane that was being pushed back,
I said in the story that they opened the windscreen and stuck their head out.
Now I'm being told that one of them had a digital camera and snapped some pictures.
Wow. So Unite is not playing ball with me.
And FAA, I've expanded my FOIA to include the flight plan, which might include the pilots names.
And I'm trying to work with the union as well.
Are they still going by weather phenomenon?
FAA, you know, pretty much because of the federal holiday, I haven't talked to them that much.
But yeah, they haven't changed their story.
I've just heard from other people since then that that explanation just doesn't wash.
And they haven't gone out of their way to say anything otherwise so far?
No. I mean, they say, you know, it was November 7th. They're moving on. They're just doing their daily thing.
Well, I tell you what, all the people who saw it must be feeling a little validated right about now.
Oh, yeah. And I'm getting tons of e-mails from other people outside the airport as well as at O'Hare who also either sighted that same object or saw the whole of the sky.
You had to go to the sun after that just to clear the rest of those pores out.
Okay. So what did it look like again to the folks who saw it?
It was a saucer-like object hovering over the United terminal, right?
Yeah, directly over gate C-17.
It was stationary in the sky, dark gray metallic, you know, like I say, saucer-shaped, no lights.
And it was there for some minutes.
And then when it disappeared, it just streaked through the clouds with such energy that it broke a big blue hole in the overcast.
And the hole remained there for several minutes until the wind drifted and pushed the clouds back together.
We'll cover a little information on that, too.
The blue was the sky.
Yeah, the blue was the sky.
But otherwise, the entire skyline was cloudy.
Totally overcast, huh?
Oh, I forgot that spot over there.
An airplane just doesn't react like that.
It slices through and it doesn't disturb the atmosphere.
There you go.
Do you have any interviews set up after this, John?
Yeah, I'm going back on a radio station, a couple of radio stations this afternoon.
And then Headline News has a show I'm doing at 3 o'clock.
Okay.
Ooh, I'll have to watch if I'm...
Yeah, we'll have to set up by then.
Okay, Australia.
What other international?
Oh, my God.
I mean, all over Europe.
Oh, my gosh.
You know, hearing from people in Ireland, they say, you know, we heard about what's happening at O'Hara.
Ah, you're kidding.
Which O'Hara?
I mean, just...
As well as serious, you know, researchers at major U.S. universities who have attempted to do their own investigations,
and when they go to the government to try to get information, they get stonewalled.
So there really is this universal feeling that the government knows a lot more than it's willing to tell.
Oh, man. Okay.
What I find interesting is, would they say that otherwise if it wasn't so candidly, you know, done here?
I don't know.
What I found interesting is John Hilkovich...
I am so...
See how he presents this right here.
I was the first one to get to talk to you about it.
That's right.
It was Friday.
Okay.
The UFO hair story the Chicago Tribune exclusively broke on New Year's Day is garnering attention around the world.
Joining us now to talk about it once again is Tribune transportation writer John Hilkovich, who broke the story.
And, John, the response has been, well, out of this world, hasn't it?
Yes, it has been astronomical, Jim.
Every major country, it seems, people have written in,
both those who claim they've spotted UFOs during their life as well as serious researchers.
I mean, just the last two days, this is my email.
And these are the serious emails.
You know, the ones from Kooks who said they were brought aboard alien spacecraft I put in a circular file.
So it's just a story that has legs and people are fascinated by the thoughts.
And I think there's some belief that there are advanced life forms that are visiting us here on a regular basis.
You've been contacted now in the last few days by several countries, but that also includes serious university researchers here in the U.S.
You know, I've got to tell you, too, I got a call from my dad in California Monday night.
And he's like, what is up with the O'Hare UFO story?
I'm like, where did you see that?
Where did you read that?
Well, it was on Fox Network's crawl at the bottom.
It's just amazing how much this is garnering.
Yeah, it really is.
And worldwide attention, as you say.
And from people who have observed, made observations themselves, including on November 7th, the date of this incident,
additional people both at O'Hare and outside the airport who have either seen this gray, disc-shaped metallic object themselves
or they saw that huge hole in the sky that the object created when it vanished.
Let's go over that one more time.
What did people see when it all of a sudden vanished right through the clouds over the United Terminal?
And then how's the FAA been reacting the past few days, too?
Any new ground on that?
Okay.
Well, the object was hovering in a stationary position about 1,500 feet above the United Terminal for some minutes.
And then when it left, it just burst through this thick cloud layer, creating a large open space of blue sky on an otherwise overcast day.
It took some minutes for that opening to close up when the clouds drifted back together.
And it's just extremely unusual, according to the witnesses.
I mean, airplanes just don't react like this.
They slice through clouds and they really don't disturb the atmosphere that much, except for the wingtips and such.
The FAA is still, you know, pinning this to some kind of weather phenomenon,
that some lights from the airport and the overcast sky somehow got together and created this image.
But weather experts, astronomy experts, others that I've talked to said that that's bunk.
That explanation just doesn't wash.
United, on the other hand, after first denying that they got any reports from employees about this sighting,
is now saying, yes, indeed, their employees did approach them immediately because of concerns about safety.
And to reiterate, John, the witnesses who originally came to you are all seasoned, professional, credible professionals, like pilots who saw this.
They're pilots, they're senior managers, they're mechanics and others.
So, you know, they are very truthful about what they're saying.
And we're trying to locate photographs, if they do exist, of this incident.
Well, John, we know you have plenty of other interviews to do today with other countries,
so we'll let you go and we'll keep our eyes to the sky. Thanks.
Thank you, Jim.
And the conversation still rolls as it rolls to black.
Isn't it amazing what really garners people's, for various reasons, I suppose, you know.
How cool.
I can't wait to see in a week where this stands, you know.
Yeah. I'm just amazed I'm still getting requests for interviews because...
Yeah. Now, wasn't that insightful?
Cool. Thanks, John.
Thanks, Jim.
Can we run the second part, please?
This is from CNN.
But do they come from other worlds?
You don't believe this was possibly your imagination?
It was definitely not my imagination.
Joe was a mechanic for United Airlines.
While taxiing a jumbo jet to the hangar, he and another mechanic...
...looked out the window in the general direction and noticed an object up in the sky,
a dark gray object sitting above the terminal complex.
Joe, which is not his real name, is one of several airport workers,
some of whom have talked to the Chicago Tribune,
who say they saw a saucer-shaped UFO hovering just beneath the clouds at the airport.
He's the first to go on camera to talk about it since this happened several weeks ago.
He wants to remain anonymous.
But you're sure it was some kind of object that normally would not be above O'Hare Airport?
I've been at O'Hare for quite some time,
and let's just say that I've never seen an object in my time there that looked like this.
And I'll tell you definitely it was not an airplane as we know it.
But it could be an airplane as another world knows it.
Possibly.
We brought in one of Chicago's top sketch artists...
Followed the contours of the object.
...to listen to Joe and draw a picture of what he says he saw.
More like an oval, dark gray oval.
Because no photos have surfaced, and Joe doesn't know of any.
Now, it didn't say Goodyear on it, did it?
No Goodyear, no. That's a really good drawing.
Is that what it looks like?
Very much so, yeah.
Other witnesses told an organization called the...
Now, there is the object that most people who have seen this footage say was the object.
This was a cell picture.
I don't know how much darker they can get that.
It's up in... let me point it out.
It's right up there.
See it?
That's the object.
And this was actually sent anonymously to Above Top Secret,
which is a very good website and blog.
The thread on this was I don't know how many pages.
And, in fact, my witness that came forward,
that is also, you'll see included in the NARCAP report.
And NARCAP was actually field this case.
The reason why, of course, is Richard Haynes is known for dealing with aviation personnel.
So this was really important that this was field to him.
I was able to do some work, interview this individual,
and strangely enough, my format has changed
because I was actually supposed to come here today
with two sets of footage that never materialized.
Up until the last moment, I was guaranteed I was going to have them.
I'd like to progress now, if we can,
to an interview that we did with Fox in and about this time
that I think took on an entirely different tone from these,
and I'd like your interpretation of it or your opinion thereafter.
Can we move to the next segment on this?
Is it possible?
I'm crossing my fingers.
I'm getting nowheres.
Okay.
There is another segment, a Fox piece,
but evidently we have some technical difficulties.
Is this right?
Somebody tap me in the back of the head or send me a pigeon with a letter.
Okay.
Anyways, we'll give you some information about the O'Hare case
and where it finally ends up.
The final report, which is 155 pages,
you can actually see that and download it at narcap.org,
N-A-R-C-A-P dot org.
And when you go there, go to the left-hand side of the page,
and it will say the O'Hare report.
It was posted August 27th.
In there you'll see the compiled information from FOIA requests,
which actually were fulfilled,
but they did not come in simultaneously
but trickled in a little bit at a time.
Interesting, in that request was also some radar footage,
about 14 minutes that are missing
and would have been pretty important but didn't happen.
And here we go back to this piece.
To the west off I-88, this man snapped a photo of it
as he drove to his home in Westmont.
It kind of looked like you took a building and knocked it over
and it was flying around.
And to the south in Tinley Park.
I got it on tape! I got it!
It has perplexed T.J. Javcon.
And so I turned around and I looked up and I'm like, no way.
I'm like, no way.
For nearly 6 years.
They're back!
But never fear, inside this Orland Park apartment,
Sam Maranto is on the case.
Did you see that? Right here, there.
How do you like that?
I look like a troll.
They put this thing right next to my head.
My cat bit my hand the day before.
They're showing the holes in my hand like I'm some sort of drug addict or something.
Maranto has been especially busy ever since a UFO was spotted over O'Hare last November.
He's been interviewing reluctant witnesses who won't go public with their accounts.
These are not crackpots.
Still, he admits most, if not all, of the photos of the UFO
that have since surfaced on the internet probably aren't legitimate.
Absolutely insane.
But back to this.
I've gone through this probably about 10 times.
Hours of home video from various South Suburbanites.
There's airplanes along with them, look at that.
All shooting the same hovering light configuration as TJ Javcon back in 2001.
2004, he goofed up.
That's when you're like, wow, what is this thing?
Ken and Sherry Gunakosoi in Oak Forest.
Not a single sound.
No noise at all.
Is it above top secret, reversed engineered technology? Possibly.
That's a hoax. It's a hoax being perpetrated on people.
Astronomer Mark Hammergren believes these lights are nothing more than ...
Flares suspended below weather balloons.
Nobody wants to say to people that there's no Santa Claus.
Hammergren also has bad news for Linda Von Henke and her family.
Waiting for it to either come on down or take me on up or whatever it wants to do.
It's breathtaking.
This is the planet Venus.
Then there's this guy.
They told me I'm nuts.
Asking to remain anonymous even though he too insists what he saw was a UFO.
Do you any know any big giant square rectangular blook and blimps that move like with the speed of a fighter plane?
Humans make extraordinarily poor witnesses.
They misperceive things.
Do you hear this?
But some people like Chicagoan Mike Ernst refuse to back down.
Here is this craft, this UFO.
His sighting was at O'Hare as well.
Six years ago when he was working the graveyard shift cleaning airplanes.
It was just like a metallic silver.
It's about 80 to 100 feet long, 70 feet off the ground.
You see these real bright lights coming from within.
It was so close that I could have grabbed a rock and I could have hit the darn thing.
And all of a sudden it just accelerated and gone it went.
There's cameras everywhere.
The FAA has to have pictures.
I'm not making it up.
There has not been one piece of physical evidence that has passed the scientific test.
But they still believe.
I saw what I saw, period.
If you can't control it, kill it, or conceal it, okay, entirely, you have to deny it.
In the end, does it really matter whether or not these UFO sightings can be explained away?
After all, wouldn't that take away all the mystery, the intrigue, and the fun of it?
Mark Sachsenmayer, Fox News, Chicago.
I wish that would have happened earlier, actually.
Laughter
Well, that was an interesting piece.
He led the piece with this lady obviously looking at Venus.
Everybody in this room knew that.
I don't know who this person was, never talked to her.
Second person we talked to actually saw an advertising banner that's usually seen in downtown Chicago along the lakefront.
It's a very large banner that's either pulled by a helicopter or a plane.
It's big.
And this he could cut, we don't need this, we could kill this piece here.
Stop the video, DVD, looks like he's getting eaten by something.
Laughter
I don't know what happened there.
That was actually the full interview by Mark Sachsenmayer from Fox of the witnesses, those two witnesses.
But what happened was the piece was supposed to play out differently as I was told.
We planned for this about three or four weeks in advance.
We spent a couple weeks getting everybody lined up.
And not all the witnesses showed up for the shoot.
The tone of that shoot for Fox was supposed to be very serious.
It was not supposed to be like this.
The one individual you've seen that was talking about the O'Hare incident of 2001 in April was very convincing.
I met his family.
I believe this gentleman to be very earnest.
And the funny thing is his last name is Ernst.
And a hell of a guy too.
And he knows, he remembers this entire sighting very vividly because as he says it was up close and personal.
He could have thrown a rock at it maybe 60 feet away.
There were four other people with him.
But that wasn't everybody that witnessed it.
He knew there were other people and other hangers looking at it and just didn't talk to them afterwards.
So sightings around O'Hare are really not something unique or new.
I believe our first sighting at O'Hare was in the 50s and it was part of Blue Book that at least recorded.
The other thing about this sighting at O'Hare, and I'm trying to cover a lot of material,
mind you now, this condensed version is 155 pages long.
If you get a chance, please read it.
And I'm going to give you the bottom lines and everything.
First of all, what we're looking at is something truly unusual, truly anomalous.
Secondly, many people seen it and it was photographed.
It was photographed and some photographs I believe that did come forward,
at least one of them may very well be a legitimate photograph.
But since we don't have anybody tied to it coming forward, we don't accept that as evidence.
You know that we at MUFON take a very rigid stance on what is evidence and same thing at NARCAP.
But one individual, one witness that we spoke to, or I spoke to, I think she gave some very good insight.
And if you don't mind, listen to some audio from my interview with this person.
I think it's very interesting.
Can we start the audio, please?
She's confirming the fact that photos were taken.
Can we stop for one second?
What she's saying is we're looking at an object with softer edges,
not quite the same as the hard edge UFO that we're usually depicted and everything,
spinning counterclockwise.
And the other thing about it she mentions earlier in the interview,
it had some unique qualities to it of its reflectivity
that made her consider other types of components other than metal,
even possibly some type of ceramic, which was very interesting.
This lady has a background in journalism.
She was a reporter.
She was a TV anchor person in the Washington area.
She has an interest in the military and military aviation,
and she has a background in it because she is a military,
was referred to as a military brat.
Her father was a retired, or is a retired, commander of a Navy air wing,
and she knows what flies, how it flies, and what should be up there and not be up there,
and she's also seen some highly sophisticated stealth technology.
She was absolutely certain that what she saw that day was not of this world.
Maybe a little bit more of that audio, please.
That maybe that's what was called distortion around the edge.
There was a sky area of very close.
And you pulled over. Any idea?
So that area of Gate C, Concord C, which makes sense, that does make sense.
Yeah, yeah, it totally makes sense.
That's pretty good right there.
We'll stop that.
That's pretty much enough audio right now.
People are falling asleep.
So what we'll do is I'm going to show you some footage to keep you really awake.
How's that?
Now we're going to talk about the Tinley Park sightings.
Obviously what came down with the O'Hare sighting is everything conclusive
and definitive so far is at NARCAP, and that's all I can do is direct you
because there's so much material there you'd really have to read it.
I have the books in front of me, but I cannot see a thing,
so I can't read the details.
What I'd like to do instead, show you some footage from Tinley Park
that I think you'll find rather impressive.
But before we show the Tinley Park footage,
I'm going to show you some footage from Arizona.
And this, I'm going to give you some insight.
August, the month of August in 2004 started with a bang.
I can tell you that a lot of things happened in 2004.
As you can remember, August was the month of those major hurricanes.
Do you remember that?
Our first of the series of a five category came on shore the 13th of August.
Well, on the 19th of August, we had a craft or an object hovering over
Minneapolis-St. Paul for six hours in a 30-knot wind.
Does everybody remember that one, or did you ever hear about that?
It sat up there.
Did you remember hearing about it in the news?
Of course not, right?
Even down in Papua New Guinea, you didn't hear it there.
So the problem was it wasn't really covered very well.
NARCAP, I mean, not NARCAP, but New Fork received a lot of reports.
There was footage of this.
There was also an event that night in, let's say, northwest Arizona.
I'd like to show you the object that was seen there in a 30-mile-an-hour wind.
Can we show that?
That should be Rob's footage.
This is from Arizona Research Group.
1A.
Okay, where's that pigeon?
Now, see if I was on the radio.
This is what's known as radio hell.
Okay, there we go.
Now, the vantage point this individual was looking at,
this thing in the air in the 30-mile-an-hour wind,
he described it as being not aerodynamic by any stretch of the imagination.
Pay attention now to these illuminations around the side.
And I refer to them as illuminations, not lights, for the purpose of illuminating,
but illuminations, the result of energy.
And you see this one just go on?
Well, it's all around it.
It's very un-aerodynamic,
and he first described it as being a huge battleship in the sky.
What you're looking at here received UFO footage of the year,
or photograph of the year, from Jerry Pippen's site.
And knowing the individual for four years,
I can assure you this is a genuine photograph,
and it is something out of this world, or at least unearthly technology.
How do you like that?
Research coming from this area has got to be one of the best scientific,
actual scientific research.
This and a few other events that happened to this individual
really propelled him to look into things that really made him,
let's say, question his reality.
And when you look at stuff like this,
and I don't know if anybody out here, I'm sure there is quite a few,
have had a UFO sighting,
once you have one, it's hard to go back to just your normal realm, you know?
Things change.
Well, for this man, things really changed.
And also in Tinley Park, the next set of footage I'm going to show you,
I think things really changed.
The south side of Chicago, we have all these border towns,
and we'd kill it, we'd kill that footage.
There's actually quite a bit of footage,
but I don't have permission to show a lot of things.
I had permission to show that.
You'd kill that footage if you don't mind.
Stop that footage, please.
Thank you.
Tinley Park, anybody know the area by any chance?
Tinley Park, Illinois? There we go.
And it's a very populated area.
To give you some idea, it has a good demographic,
it's a good cross-section of people, and it's highly populated.
As you know, it's south of Chicago,
which is just basically an extension of the population.
It is also the most illuminated area south of the Loop.
It is really an illuminated area.
Also in that area, there's a very strange subdivision
that looks like a cyclotron, even as high as 36 miles up in the air.
And yes, I've looked at it through Google, 36 miles up in the air.
There's also an auditorium, a music center out there,
that looks like a huge monolith.
It's really bizarre the way it looks from space.
Now, under the assumption that what you're about to see
is of an extraterrestrial origin, and I have no clue,
I didn't check anybody's license and pull them out of this thing.
I didn't even, you know, no vehicle ID, I didn't see anything.
But either way, the technology is definitely unearthly.
And if we could run TJ's footage,
and TJ's been lucky enough to actually see this twice.
We had mass sightings out there in Tinley Park on three events.
This event took place two days after that other object you saw in Phoenix.
That was the 19th, this is the 21st.
Could we kick the audio up on this?
That's him breathing, and the crickets in the background.
They were having a party outside, 40 people.
Ozzy Osbourne just got done with a concert.
People were heading off on I-80, about two miles away from there.
And the Air and Water Show was earlier that day.
And I think my friend here gets a little...
I got it! I got it on tape!
He gets a little excited, huh?
I got it, I got it on tape.
Now what you're looking at here...
I'm going to have you speed that up, please,
to get an idea of what we're looking at.
When I seen this the first time, I wanted to put it in faster motion
to get an idea if there's any pattern to this,
or if they stay in any pattern, possibly being attached to something.
And that's what we basically came up with.
This, from what you will see in the next sequence,
of the other sighting, which was the October 31st sighting,
and if we could forward to that,
which will show up on the screen as being 850-something,
you will see a plane.
So the next set of footage you will see...
Here we go. Here's a plane going in front of this object.
I got 20 minutes left on battery, I hope.
The object's about a mile or more further away from this gentleman,
and a plane cuts in front of it.
Watch and see this.
There they are.
October 31st, 2004.
What is it? What is it?
He had some kind of light.
No, it's not him.
No, no, no, no.
That's them, right?
Yeah, that's them.
It's the same red cherry lights as we had before.
What they see is red.
Red is the wavelength that you would see,
because it's the longest wavelength.
But actually, if you were very close to it,
you would see a composite of the full spectrum of our light range.
Now, where's that plane?
I don't see it.
I got this.
Can we back up? I think we missed the plane going through there.
Yep, there it was.
Is there a fourth one to come?
Yeah.
This is the end of the 21st of August.
And actually, another craft actually shows up afterwards on each occasion.
We need to go a little bit ahead.
Now it's starting to fade.
The plane's in the air.
The plane's in the air.
I don't know.
I'm tired. I'm running out of breath.
I'm going to zoom in a little bit more.
Is that that UFO?
They're back again.
There's airplanes along with them.
Stop that for a second right there.
That object is, from the airplane, more than half a mile away.
Compare the illuminations.
Now, you heard that astronomer say that what this was
was flares on a balloon.
A flare is a rating lume of about 60.
The illuminations on those crafts, on the airplanes,
are substantially more than 60.
They could be 300 or more, depending on which lights are blinking.
Now, when you look back there, this object being a half a mile away,
and we're looking at an airplane there,
when you know the difference of size and calculating the distance,
those illuminations are about three times the size of that airplane.
Now you get an idea how big this object could be.
The other thing is, these are at the end of a large V,
or a V-triangular isosceles-type craft.
Very large.
On the 21st, we actually have footage of objects coming in and out of this object.
The object you're looking at in the background is over 3,000 feet long.
I want to know where on Earth we build things like this.
You can run that a little bit more, please.
Look at that! There's airplanes with them!
Yeah!
They're UFOs. We don't know. They're UFOs.
They came back on August 21st. Now there's more.
Now what happens is, he thinks it cut between the two on the bottom,
therefore making the assumption that I was wrong, that this is not one object.
He didn't know how far the two objects were away from each other.
This very event we have on videotape, VHS,
that is on a 90-degree angle, confirming my hypothesis.
Pat myself on the back.
Now what's interesting, when he gets close to some of these,
he can see some of the colors that are really interesting.
No, it's not.
No, no, no. That's them, right?
Yeah, that's them. It's the same red cherry lights as we had before.
Look at them turning like that.
There seems to be a pattern, too, when you analyze it 1 30th of a second
to see the patterns. They also go on and off.
Two will illuminate and fade and one will get brighter.
There seems to be a pattern.
Also, when you look very close at the craft itself,
there's arcing blue, like electrical blue arcing underneath it.
I have still photographs.
That's the way UFOs.
Pretty interesting. How do you like that?
Now we're going to show you some footage from Phoenix
that I think is also truly remarkable.
Again, from Arizona Research, our gentleman out there
who has done some magnificent footage.
I think he has up to 60 hours of footage now of some things.
Now this is what we were able to show.
Hopefully sometime in the future we'll be able to show more.
This is Rob's last one, I believe.
And if we could see that, I'm going to tell you what it is.
This happened on 9-11 of all days,
2005.
The funny thing about it is, you know in Phoenix,
like when we had the Phoenix lights,
all of a sudden they're saying, you know, two hours afterwards
and they dropped the flares,
they're saying that prior event was actually the event.
The funny thing about this, they dropped flares in the same area
where this very huge and unusual array of lights, let's say,
and possible object was actually located at.
And the funny thing about it, they did that a couple days afterwards
and yet the news agencies picked it up as that being the event.
Now mind you, we had two hours before and the Phoenix light,
this was actually days later and yet they said this was the event.
Amazing, isn't it?
They do time travel in the media, did you know that?
Let's see if we could have that last piece, that last...
There we go. Now please watch this.
Now you see those three, these three here,
pay no attention to that, that's actually a result
or an unusual artifact that shows up on his camera.
I want you to know he went through nine cameras doing this research.
So if you want to be a field investigator
around these types of anomalous events and phenomena,
you better be able to replace your equipment
because they beat the heck out of it.
Please pay attention down here.
You see this line?
And if you can, speed it up, please.
Pay attention to this.
And we're looking towards south, towards South Mountain,
about 20-plus miles away.
In this direction would be Sky Harbor.
Anybody here know the Arizona area?
Okay, so you have an idea where we're at.
North by Glendale, up that way.
Now see what's going on here?
You will see things shoot out and up along this object here,
this illumination, this illuminated field.
Now I made the assumption to him,
or I brought the assumption to him,
let's make the assumption this was one huge object.
I says, would you be able to give me an estimation on its size,
knowing where it would be located?
And the estimation came back to 8 miles long.
I find this to be... well, back that up, please.
Back that up.
I can't show this other footage.
Is that rather impressive or not?
Now you will see a plane... there it is.
Okay, let's back that up and run that slow
because a plane is coming... an airplane's coming in.
Just a little bit, back it up,
and you'll see an airplane to the right come in through here
going to Sky Harbor.
And all I could say is,
can you imagine being the pilot saying this?
I'd take a week's vacation at a minimum.
We'll come across here.
Now this was a 9-11-2005.
The funny thing is, 9-11-2005, we also had events in Tinley Park.
The Tinley Park sighting,
there was correlations with multiple events around the world.
The first sighting day, we actually had sightings around the world
as far as even in the Aegean Sea.
The very next morning, we had sightings down in Houston, Texas.
On Channel 11, they actually showed some footage, supposedly.
I was never able to get it.
The 24th or the 23rd, depending on what time zone you live in,
in Australia, there was the very same craft as seen in Tinley Park,
the same illuminated field and isosceles layout of illuminations,
actually photographed in Melbourne, Australia.
Okay, thank you very much with that.
How's that? Pretty good?
Time is getting close, and I'd like to cover a few things.
I'd like to cover this point, if you don't mind.
Communication.
Regardless of how much technology and whatever we have today,
we've got cell phones, heck, you can call somebody
anywhere around the world, again, Papa New Guinea,
and you could be out in the forest or whatever,
and you have a cell phone or a satellite phone,
you could still communicate.
Cell phone, probably not, but satellite phone, yes, right?
Communication is a funny thing,
though how we communicate is even funnier yet.
Now, for the past 60 years,
and we're celebrating 60 years of Roswell, correct?
We're also celebrating 60 years of modern ufology.
We've communicated to the scientific community
through this period of time and basically presenting them
with what we feel to be rather substantial bits of information,
quality evidence to some degree,
and, if you were to talk to Ted Phillips, very hard evidence.
Unfortunately, the community at large,
at least the scientific community at large,
hasn't been, let's say, dented as of yet.
Though I think the general public is finally getting the idea
that there's something more to this.
Now you can look at all different types of polls,
and they vary between certain amounts.
And if you talk to a skeptic,
40% think that something's here,
or they like to use the term believe.
I would like the term belief thrown in the garbage.
Believe is actually a leap of faith.
It's to take something on faith without evidence.
Anybody here, walking through those corridors,
looking at the material and talking or listening to any of the speakers,
and seeing the data and footage, or any witnesses,
if you could walk away and say that I can believe,
because, again, it's a leap of faith,
then I'd say you're not listening very well or reading very well.
You should know by now that something truly unusual is going on.
If we're being visited, I would say yes.
By what, from where, I have no conclusion.
But I think we should leave all those options open, at the very least.
We shouldn't make any quick decisions.
But in the same token, we should allow ourselves
to at least consider the possibilities.
And this is something we should really prod science with,
because it's to the point now that we really have to go beyond that.
So for the next 60 years,
I like something else would be, something else may take place,
at least we hope something else will take place.
One thing to do is to bypass science altogether.
Let's just talk to one another.
Isn't it funny? We don't talk to one another anymore.
We talk to one another at the meetings,
and we're not congregating at things like this that much.
Let's do that.
The other thing is to make use of other ways and means to communicate.
One way is the abstract form.
Intelligence is, true intelligence, is the use of abstract abilities.
Use of the abstract.
Art and science have more similarities than one can imagine.
And with that in mind, I'd like to show you a very nice music video
by Sufjan Stevens, who is the musician,
the artwork by Jim Davis,
who is the art director on the East Coast at one of the universities.
The first time I saw this, it actually brought me to tears.
It has nothing to do with the actual event
of a sighting in Illinois on January 5th,
but it made a good title,
and it strung the chord of imagination for this gentleman and these two artists.
On that note, I'd like to please show this video.
And I say please again.
The DVD. Thank you.
