Ah
That that that that that that
There we go, I just had to play this again, I'm gonna force everyone to watch it cuz it's real funny before I started
I didn't want to act too gay
I remember the time at the football party in high school
We all watch porno and we jerk off in the same room true fucking story. I was there were you there?
I was there. I was there. I was there. I was there. I thought this is kind of gay
Neither, neither, neither, neither
But I just wanna fit in
Neither, neither, neither, neither
I just wanna fit in
Neither, neither, neither, neither
I just wanna fit in
I just wanna fit in
I guess that's pretty straight a bunch of dudes all watching porno at the same time jerking off at the same time
I guess that's pretty straight
Huh?
Yeah?
Is it?
Ah
Anyway that shit was funny had to play it
Yeah, that's a F-E Black Beauty with custom pickups in it sounds better
So, oh, yeah, I need to bring it not so let's see
Sorry
What's up?
Did you get to hear the I just want to fit in song again? I did. Yeah. Yeah
I was one of the people you forced to watch it. Yeah. Yeah, I know. It's really good
Yeah, I mean you've always been fascinated by male bonding rituals. I have
you know, I
I wish I had more hands. That's all I mean it, you know make friends that way make better friends
See we're gonna get my trying to get my little skunky guy on oh look at that. Yeah, there he goes
All right
Here we are here we are
Okay
Let's see. What are we gonna start off with? What do we usually start off with?
I mean we usually start off maybe with like a general overview of like what we're actually gonna chat about I suppose
Okay, you know so we thought today we would we would talk about like different parts of
Growing and flower and like what it means for you
So we'll try to there'll be times where maybe we'll get a little technical
but we'll try to make it topical and bring it back to stuff that
Because there's a lot of different ways of growing. There's a lot of different ways of
You know, there's a lot of methods right? Yeah, and if there's anything in in weed that leads people to religion
It's the way that I grow is the best way. Yeah, and I have the best pot because of this method
Right, and so it gets really hard to debate any part about it because there's so much
There's so much pride I guess yeah, I mean it's it's like art, you know
Everybody's got ego with their art and if someone tells you that you know, it could be done a little bit better
It hurts something. Yeah, so yeah, definitely and you know, there's there's aspects of
To of like, you know one size fits all
Yeah sense of depending on what your goals are and we'll talk about we'll break it down into chunks
Whether you're breeding or whether you're growing for pure heads or whether you're trying to grow commercially on a bit larger of a scale
Like there's different pros and cons to your approach
They're not all the same. So it's really hard to be like, oh, I just need to learn this one thing
And this method if I perfect it will consistently do the best for me no matter what I'm trying to do
Yeah, and that's just not the case. No, no, no, it's just really not the case, you know
And then maybe we could talk a little bit about like what those methods do to the flower
Sure, and some misnomers maybe about how and everybody thinks that like nutrition is like the only thing
Really that messes with it
But there's temperature and there's spectrum and there's how you treat it afterwards and all that that kind of goes into it
Yeah, you know
You know and so as a result of that there's like there's a lot of there's a lot of people trying a lot of good
Good ways to grow cannabis that they're not putting all the pieces together
Yeah, you know, I one of the most common questions I get that in relation to nutrients and in feed is
When people email me about a specific strain they'll ask like hey, how do I feed it? What's it like?
And and I try to explain to them the difference between like, you know, it depends it all depends
I don't even know what expression, you know, you're going for
I don't know what expression the plants gonna get at the first place in your environment
So it's really hard to tell people how you're gonna feed because it's not just strain dependent
It's it's individual plant and individual roots dependent
And I think it'd be a good way to illustrate it talking about it matters
It's like trying to be like well this if you just do this like you can pick up any woman you want
Yeah, you know this this this dating method is just 100% effective
Yeah, and doesn't take the other human being into account, you know
And I also thought like this is this is a little esoteric but there's like a there's this really cool book
By this he writes the New York Times or whatever and his name is Michael Pollan
And it's called the botany of desire. Yeah. Yeah, it's a great book and documentary and it's a it's a
You know, it's like a plant's eye view from the world
Mm-hmm. So I thought maybe to like we rarely talk about like what cannabis or hemp or whatever wants
Yeah, like what it's trying to do and what it's going for because in order for us to get what we want
Right, we have to play with what it's doing
Right, we have to play with what it's doing. Yeah to convince it to give us what we're after
Yeah, because what it wants isn't necessarily what our end product of smoking it is
No, and I mean in some case, you know, like I mean basically at its most basic level
The plant wants to mate create seed continue the progeny of itself
It has zero interest in creating good smoke for us. Yeah, that's not seedless seedless is failure
Genetically to it. Yeah, and so there's a bunch of stuff that that plays into that
you know and we just thought that you know, like we I you know, we
Listen to a lot of these things we hear a lot of discussions and mostly what I see is a bunch of people
No offense. I'm not trying to piss anybody off but like patting themselves on the back for what method they've chose
Yeah, and that's the superior method and people aren't really interested in hearing different opinions about things too much
Yeah, you know there's yeah, it's so it's it's very like it's very cliquish
It is very cliquish whether you're a salt farmer or you use bottles
You know right there like bottle people or you know, that's that's kind of faux pas right now organics
Yeah, right, you know like not only organics but no bottles organic. Yes. No bottles or no bottles K&F
Living soil, you know full salts
synganic
You know, there's all the I even you know
all these different things play into it and like and I you know, I mean I think that there's I think that there's a lot of
Misunderstanding that goes into all of it. Yeah, right and so you hear all these there's all these talks
I'm not gonna sit here and say that I'm some you know
There's other more intelligent people that can talk about like the pure nutrition aspect of it
I can give a general overview that will probably work but mostly what we're talking about is like end results and
How to manipulate your plants to get what you want, yeah, right and there's different goals and it's not all the same
Yeah, I mean like like I've talked about this a lot in the past
choosing for selection a
Lot of when I choose a plant for selection or for keepers
I'm choosing a plant for keepers for breeding, you know, whereas someone someone else's keeper may not
Be that because they're looking for an immediate
Production plant that has all the traits they want right there
I want something that's gonna have the traits that it passes down as opposed to what it's showing up in itself, you know
Yeah, Neville and so the old-timers used to talk about that that sometimes the breast the best breeders
Were not the plant that they would put into production from that same line. Oh, yeah. Yeah, very different things
There could be there could there could be they could be the same and they could also just end up being different
We end up breeding with production plants
Because those are what survived. Yeah
For the most part, you know
Yeah, you know trying to you know, it's not like there's a bunch of even amongst traders and collectors like ourselves
We're not you're not trading old males
Yeah, right. No, but you're not getting like oh, that's the 98 male of this and this, you know
No, no, that doesn't you're lucky if you're lucky if like, you know, you'd get a female from that long ago. Yeah
Yeah, I don't I don't think I've ever heard of anybody keeping old males like that from the Dutch days
No, I mean some people some of them do but they're certainly never gonna trade them for you
They they view them as like the bedrock of their company. Oh so much g13 Hayes mill. That's one
That's one that did make it out now that I think about it. I don't know if it's still around
Yeah, but yeah rare. Yeah, very rare rare, you know
I think one example with with STS and stuff like that
It's even become more rare because they've eliminated the male in a lot of cases
Yeah, so I don't know maybe we could give it we could start because it is a little rambly or whatever but
We could we could start maybe with like what's your goal?
So like I was gonna break it down basically into like three like big chunks, right?
There's like growing for you, which is basically trying to make it as heady as possible and usually relatively small scale
Then there's growing for seed. Mm-hmm, and then there's growing at a larger scale for
Production. Yeah, and there's various obvious there's various grades and levels of that
And that's a lot of what people are faced with today in terms of like how?
How do you scale up? Hettie's? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, that's been a major major problem for people
Yeah, and people are realizing that like oh like, you know this this method that I've done for 20 years
It's worked great my two greenhouses. Yeah. Well now I've got six ten thousand square foot licenses and my weeds not as nice
Yeah, and I think a lot of people convince themselves at the beginning of rec that they were totally gonna be able to scale up
You know like it shouldn't be hard, you know, right?
Yeah, just didn't work out that way and not only not only from a difficulty standpoint
But also certain things that might be perfectly economically feasible at a certain scale
You know inputs that you might be using or whatever
Might not scale up. Yeah. Yeah, right and the amount of liquid you're gonna go through and the amount of this and the amount of
That and the amount of labor it might entail. Yeah
You know and so and and so all those things all those things play into it, right? So
Maybe we'll just start real general and we'll talk about like the difference between like growing good weed and growing for seed. Okay, right
so
You know if you're growing if you're growing if you're trying to grow for good weed these days that means seedless
So that means you're gonna trick the plant into constantly
Going
Waiting for pollen that never comes. Yes, right
And so what you're trying to do is you're trying to give it you know enough nitrogen enough badge or boost or whatever and to
Get it to a certain size
Get it to flower set and then grow good flower harvest it smoke it. That's your gig
Yeah, right and so that requires a certain kind of nutrition
Right where if you're growing from seed
You're planning on pollinating it right and then since it's gonna be making babies like seeds inside itself
You'll probably give it a lot more nitrogen and you'll give it a lot more of a mix
That is is very different than if you'd smoke it. Yeah, I tend to
feed heavy nitrogen during
flower for seeds
I feed it like tomatoes a very tomato regimen is great for seeds keeping them healthy and viable
But I
Flip out like if people feed since a milla like that because it just to me it just ruins it
You know when you just flood it with nitrogen for the most part
I mean and so maybe there's an aspect that people should realize here. So
One of the interesting things is there's this I'll give a plug. There's this company called Canada. Okay, yeah, which is a Dutch company that
designed nutrition for cannabis
Right and the reason why they're special is that for a super long time when people were developing nutrition
They couldn't test it on cannabis because it was illegal
Yeah, but cannot could so canna
You know, they they were able actually to grow different plants
You know their cannabis different ways and then test how the plant actually up took nutrient, right?
So they had this method of like give it just enough and nothing more
Yeah, right where like I would say American companies are more supersized me like we'll sell the customer way more than they need like advanced
The 32 product fucking sweet. Yeah, you know general hydroponic, you know, I just mean like the usage rates
It's like go heavy put a bunch in there, right? And so what happens with you know from a plant's perspective, right?
you know plants will sit there and what they want to do is
They have no idea that there's like humans taking care of them really right
So yeah, they want to soak up as much food as they possibly can within themselves
So that when the food starts to run low
They have enough left inside themselves to like carry on the process of making seed
Yes, right. So like back in the day you see a lot of people that I go
I want to pack on weight on my flower right and they would like give boosters or something heavy at the end
Yeah, and then you just you end up with unused nutrient in your stuff and what can I figure it out?
Is that if you gave it at the at the like early mid part of flower say like week three on a 10 week strain?
Right, then the plant would have the next month to use up that excess
Yeah, and grow all that flower and boost itself and then it would still be running out running low towards the end
Yeah, because what you want is since you're gonna trick the plant and you're never gonna seed it
You don't want a bunch of that excess stored inside the plant itself. No in general
No, right
And so that's what happens sometimes when people like quote-unquote pump it or they ride a high EC or they have a lot of organic
Nutrition that's like their soils hot
Yeah, the plant just soaks up a bunch. Mm-hmm
And it and it's got a bunch in there because it's trying to make sure when it runs out
It has enough to make seed. Yeah, it doesn't know you're gonna make seedless. Yeah
So you have to like plan your nutrition around?
What you're trying to do?
Yeah
If the plant knew that it was gonna be seedless
It just it would probably not put so much energy into making the little hairs, you know
Oh, yeah, and I mean, you know like our buddy
You know CSI who grows in beds in his rooms that he makes seed
I mean he puts enough nutrition in there for six or seven months. Yeah, he mostly feeds water
Because he's not concerned. It's really high nitrogen. It's not something he would ever do if he was growing for flour for market
Yeah, it's like a completely different mix and that's why it's so bunk
You know when he talks about like when it fails people act like oh, well, then you just got a bunch of good heady weed
Yeah, and he's like no I got a bunch of overly nitrogen
you know, we are gonna burn the right way like it's not gonna come out heads because
It was a mix for seeds for seed creation
Yeah
you know and for to grow heads you kind of want to give the plan everything that it needs and
Then ideally let it use up its excess before you're done. Yeah
It's also why he doesn't show a lot of pictures of the actual seed process making because it's not pretty like it to feed it
correctly to
To to have it making healthy seeds. It's not a visually appealing plant
You know some people and majority people wouldn't understand that part
Of making thick healthy tiger striped seeds that are that are gonna be good for customers
But it's not gonna look pretty where if he has different rooms for instance that he's growing
He's using to do like seed pops and experiments. Yeah, he's gonna like phenol hunt and see what they are
Those soil beds will be mixed at a different ratio. Yeah
You know, it'll be a lot less nitrogen, you know, it'll be a lot more scaled for flower
Yeah, you know and then you know, there's and then there's an act there's there's other aspects to where it's like
Plants really are like people in the sense that you know
You've got your friends that can eat whatever they want and like, you know
And they're and they stay thin as a rail and you got your plants that like look at a potato chip and get intent gain
10 pounds
Let's do that same thing. They eat different rates. Yeah, they have different feeding requirements
They have different root systems. They drink out of it
And so what becomes what becomes hard is like, you know, I've always thought when I was doing bigger shit
that you're trying to put plants that drink the same and
Eat the same in the same area
Yeah, right because I've had situations where I'm burning one plant or one line and the other line wants more food. Yeah
Right, yeah, anytime I have purple in the room that's going on
Or or you know, you're trying to grow something that drinks a lot and really fast
Versus something that like drinks slower like kush and you don't need to water that thing as much so you end up over watering it
Mm-hmm to compensate, you know, and that's what makes like that's that's honestly like people dis mono cropping
But that's why a lot of people like to mono crop
Yeah, because you can dial in your nutrient regimen or how you're feeding your plant or your style
Right to fit that crop like we have a good buddy pip souvenir seed Co or whatever and he talks about
You know, he was at our party one year. Remember he was he was blown away by how good that diesel was
Yeah, and he said, you know, it was it was you know, the cut was from him at the time
and you know, he was used to putting one or two in the corner and
He couldn't feed it the way he'd feed a whole room of sour, yeah, so it would come out nice but not perfect
Yeah, you know because it's one of those things where it had different requirements than the rest of the stuff he was doing
Yeah, so it wouldn't come out as nice. Yeah sour is also one of those where it's like fucking you miss it you miss it
Yeah, it's very easy to miss, you know, it's finicky. And so
You know, there's an aspect to that where people think that there's a one-sided relationship
There's a one method they can teach they can take the method they know and apply it to anything
I mean you start to see there's these like a five and c5 and the cough and
Piff and Cuban black haze are starting to gain in popularity
Or even GMO, right? Yeah, if you're gonna have a plant that takes 12 to 15 weeks
You're going to have to feed it differently than a plant that takes eight to ten
Yep
You're going you're gonna have to you're gonna have to veg it first
You're going you're gonna have to you're gonna have to veg it for longer you're gonna have to give it a different mix
And just so people know it's not like the mix dictates what happens to the plant
The plant's trying to feed on what it wants
Yeah, and it's either there or it's not
And I think that's a misconception. Like maybe we could talk about that for a second. We're like the plant absorbs salts
Yes, that's what it absorbs, right? So if you're feeding gh or
You know, I don't know, uh
You know
Eagle or 2020 or you know, or yeah any kind of salt or liquid chem nutrition
You're giving it like the 17 major and macro elements like in like an IV basically
Yeah, right, but if you if you're fully organic, you're still feeding it those same salts
It's just they're in longer chains
They're in longer chains, so you have to get various bacteria and and fungi and stuff to break it down
make it available
right and so
Like people don't get that they're like, oh you you know the plant and if you break it
If you took a perfectly derived organic salt and a salt that gh or cutting edge or somebody throws in their mix
You couldn't tell the difference under a microscope
Yeah, I I don't even know like even if you are a soil scientist couldn't
Right now that doesn't mean they're the same thing
that that's not that's not true, so it's like
because like basically like
You know chem is like, you know our understanding of what the plant needs
Organic is more like if you get it perfect
It gives the plant everything that it needs and then there's a bunch of like relationships with the with the soil itself that like
It likes and we don't really understand
You know, I have a question. I have a question for you. So I I am not
Worldly or knowledgeable about organic feeding i've always been like a house and garden canna type dude bottles
Sure, and that's just what I rocked with, you know, um
so
when you want to force the plant
To drink what you want when you're doing organics. Do you just do something to lower the ph or raise the ph to no
You have to you basically when you're doing organics
You I mean there's different approaches like there's bottles like for instance like to use the same thing canna biocanna
If you buy organic bottles
You're essentially buying things where like the company has taken the time to sort of like cook it or ferment it or brew it or whatever
method
Yeah, and those salts are more available than just adding raw amendments to the earth
Okay. Yeah, so like for instance
You know if if you were if you're going to be that kind of guy where you're going to get soil and you want to?
Amend it a lot of times
You would get it and all you want to do is raw amendments
You'd probably get it add your raw amendments and let it cook for a month or two before you'd even ever use it
Yeah
You know, um, and then because what you're trying to do is you're trying to like get all those
All that bacteria and fungi and everything time to break down the organic
food in there
And make it available
Right because that's the issue right? So the big difference is like when you feed salt
You can guarantee that the plant the availability is there
Yeah, if the temperature is right and the ph is right and the mix is right in your salt. It's going to get all that food
In organics and hoping that food is there
But it has to be at a certain ph like it a certain ph is nitrogen can't be carried, right?
Certain p at certain ph chem or organic the the plant has to have that ph to absorb it through its roots
Yeah, and certain ones like nitrogen is more available at certain ph and yeah, there's there's a range there's like a chart and that's kind of why people
Um, they give you that range for cannabis
Yeah is because you know, you get five and a half or 5.8 or something
Yeah, there's going to be certain things that are more available than in the mid-sixes and vice versa
right and it's usually
Uh, you start out lower end up higher, right? Yeah. I mean if you want to do it that way
So, you know, it's it's it's one of those things where like if you have a well-buffered organic soil
It's probably something you don't have to think about
Okay, if you know, uh, but it also depends like if you've got a great soil
But your water is ph9 coming out because it's well water
Yeah, you might need to treat your water to not make the life of the microbial life in your soil harder
Okay
right, but yeah, so
There's an aspect to it where it's like
You know, and I don't think most people most people look at it it's where it's like salts are sort of like a cheat code
You know where organics is like the pure way to go, right?
And I don't well, I mean there's an aspect to that. I I do think it's true
But I also think that there's some organics that's dirtier
than salt
You know people think that like salt is made in some kind of crazy lab when really
It's like mind minerals that are refined to a certain purity
Uh-huh, and when you're talking hydroponic purity, that's like one step below like pharmaceutical grade
So it's really really clean and it's designed to run through
Aerogets sprayers drippers all kinds of shit not clog. Yeah for the most part. Yeah, you know
Um and and all that and so, you know, it's it's low and heavy metals
uh the good ones
um, you know, and that's another thing too is like when people
people started uh
You know, and then you go organic, right?
And so organic is a label
But I don't think most people get that a lot of the organic stuff that you get is byproducts from other industries
No, I didn't know that you didn't know that. I don't think so. No if you get i'll give you a perfect example
Right if you get bone meal or blood meal
Yeah, okay. That's organic by law
But it comes from major slaughterhouses
Well, that makes sense the cows aren't organic yeah, they weren't fed organic food
You could be getting mcdonald's hamburger cows
Yeah, your bone and blood meal
Burger king wendy's right think about like the biggest meat buyers and producers
And that's all mixed together and it's all it's all the same and there's not actually a way to differentiate
Unless you're really lucky and you know an organic farm
Yeah, but it's all certified organic
Is one better than the other though like realistically so bone meal is ground up bones from cows, right?
Okay blood meal is the juice and the sluice that comes off the slaughterhouse floor
Mm-hmm, and they collect it and like powderize it delicious, right?
Feather meal is the same shit. It's a byproduct from the the poultry industry
Oh, I didn't know that. Yeah, that's better sense. Okay, you know pulled turkey
uh chickens, you know
You know, uh all the parts that they can't sell you
Yeah ground up and turned into fertilizer
Okay, right. So you have an aspect where it's like, oh i'm fully organic
And then you end up like in the I use bone meal and blood meal and feather meal and this and that and you're like
Holy fuck, you know, yeah, because it's it's it's legally organic. It's got the legal label
Yeah by law, but it doesn't come from organic animals
Blood meal smells like girls periods. It's gross. Well, yeah, it is and you know the issue the issue used to become too
Where it's like, you know when we used to be gorilla and stuff like that or whatever
Uh when I first got to california
You use blood meal or something like that and all of a sudden you get it wet and the the the vultures smell it
Yeah, my dog flips out and they start circling or the dogs want to get into it or a bear comes and wants to rip
Your shit up because it's not you'd go put a bunch of awesome fish emulsion
In your shit and then you get a black bear
Yeah, who wants that who thinks that there's fish and starts digging for it? Yeah, you know, and then you're and then you're fucked
you know and so
There's an aspect where it's like people think there's a free lunch and it's like it takes
Even if you're using that stuff, it takes it a while for it to break down some of it's available quick
Some of it not so much and like fish emulsion and all that that's all from
The you know the seafood industry. Yeah, it's all the it's all the brewed bits of the nasty parts that they can't sell you
Some of the some people like build the soil or whatever, you know, like some people have stopped using
uh bone meal
Because of the issues with cows and mad cow and just all the chem. Yeah, and they're selling you fish bone meal
Okay, because you know because it's it's it's still bones and still calcium and all that but it comes from the seafood industry
Because it's not quite as toxic
Yeah
even though it's organic so
You could have an organic style where you could pick all these inputs
Where I would rather use canner cutting edge. Yeah, I would think it would it would be cleaner to me
Yeah, you know and even even stuff that's clean like back guano or seabird guano, right?
Or they don't they're not there's obviously not like factory back guano or factory seabird
But you know you are destroying habitat to get it
Yeah, right for bats they're going into caves and for seabirds they're going to a lot of habitat and they're scraping the shit off it
Literally to send it to you. Yeah, and you know, do you know why that shit comes from like indonesia and peru and all that not america
Uh, I don't know
Because america has osha and you can't send a 10 year old boy with a bucket and a shovel into a cave
That's that's a good point. I have watched inflected water. I'm dead serious, but that shit's fucked up
They do it where it's super cheap and there's not a bunch of labor law
And they'll do it industrial style and they'll have a bunch of people with buckets and they'll have like a bunch of bulldozers
And they'll be fucking up some huge. We have plenty of bats in america
Yeah, yeah, it's just cheaper to get it out of peru or indonesia and ship it
Because they don't have to obey labor laws
Yeah, and kids are great workers. They're great. Yeah, you know and there's not child labor in there
So a kid with a bucket, you know, and so it's good. I'm not I believe me
I've used tons of back guano and seabird guano and stuff. So i'm not dissing it
I'm, just saying that that's the reality of getting it. Yeah. Yeah, it's a great nutrient
I love plants from I love brewing teas with it and stuff like that. It's like it's good stuff
but
Uh, it's not exactly harvested environmentally soundly and what happens is the people isn't the greatest thing
I remember the first time I got sent home with tea from the hydroponic store my very first trip
got sent home with
Compost tea
And I really sat there wondering if I was supposed to drink this like if it was some hippie brew
Like that I was supposed to drink. I didn't understand it was for the plants. That's all my embarrassing stories
Yeah, so, you know, I mean back, you know now we are really in a golden age
of
Teas and composts and inputs and availability
I'll say that like I mean I used to work in the hydro industry. And so I I got to know
How they sourced a bunch of amendments
What the differences in quality were and why certain why certain companies were cleaner and better
Yeah versus other ones that were using cheap inputs and covering it up
Yeah, right. And now you have a situation that goes on it's really a bummer, but it's like
There's a lot of stuff that's from the ocean that we used to consider super heavy
Right, but now that they test for heavy metals, it's dangerous
Yeah, because it's got too much lead or too much arsenic or too much cadmium or whatever in it
Yeah, you know so you could be you could be like oh i'm using fish emulsion and this and that and i've got all this
Amazing stuff and I even have a hook
And you're putting all this stuff in there and then your weed test high for heavy metals
Yeah, I mean that's why they tell like women you're only supposed to eat so much tuna and so much big fish when you're pregnant
Oh, yeah, because the mercury because the mercury well that stuff is in you know
You want to get some amazing crab or shrimp or whatever? Yeah, it's got it in it
Because they live in a bath of it right yeah, and so in some cases it's like people are like oh
You know salts are the evil bad choice
Yeah, and organics is the smooth reliable choice
And I think that that there's you know, there's like it's more complex than that
Yeah, and you can grow good weed with both
You know, there's a lot of organic weed that's grown that I don't consider that's that nice
Yeah
You know, oh, yeah. Yeah, i've seen some knf should be fucking wild
Yeah, and so maybe maybe maybe we should like get out of the esoteric for a bit
And i'll tell a story that like like is pertinent to people smoking, right?
so
I used to go I used to go to the oregon country fair. Okay, which is right outside. Eureka
It's like a famous hippie festival still goes on
Uh got delayed a little bit with covet or whatever
But so I I went up there
And I was I was from chicago and i'd lived out in cali for a few years and all that
But so I was all salt back then
Because where I grew up and where I came up like growing weed you use salt
I lived in apartments like there wasn't you weren't like grabbing soiled. You weren't you didn't have a backyard, you know, like you yeah
it was like
So anyway, but you move out to mendo and it's like a lot more
It's a lot more like back to the earth back to the land or whatever
So there's a lot of people out here that grow dirt
And I went up there and I had all this saltweed
Okay, and it was like the super skunk and the chem 91 and the mendo perps and you know, sour
Super dog and stuff like that and they all loved it
And they were all super prejudiced against
Chemweed
Yeah, but they loved my chemweed, right? Yeah, and then they all grew organic
And I never knew a bunch of cats that grew organic like that
Yeah, and so we were like comparing each other's weed all the time
Yeah, you know and so we uh, you know, we we ended up
You know, we ended up teaching each other a bunch of shit
Yeah, right and I ended up I ended up going and working a little bit for john jevons
Who's written a couple famous books?
He lives up in willets by me and learning as much as I could about organics, right?
Yeah at a time when like organics was very very like do it yourself
Yeah, not very many online didn't exist really like, you know
It was basically you were buying raw amendments and everything you had to do you had to do the work yourself
Yeah, maybe there was earth. There was earth juice
Yeah, earth juice. Yeah. Yeah still around there was very few products. There was very few inoculants
There was very few bacteria. There was very few any it was very
Like buy raw ingredients and go for it yourself, right? Yeah, so
I did this project for
I don't know probably four years
Where I grew my favorite strains
In my in one of my rooms and most of the room was dedicated for flower for medical, right?
But I had a section that side by side in the same two lights
I would grow the best organic weed I could and I would grow the best salt weed I could
Yeah of the same strains over and over and over again, right?
and then
It was just for head and so I would pass out a bunch of joints to friends of mine and stuff like that and it
Would all be blind testing and they would just smoke and tell me what's up
Yeah, and that started to shock me, right? Yeah, because sometimes
With certain strains they consistently preferred the salt
Yeah
Right and then the salt was so much easier. I didn't have to put all that. I mean people should know back then
It's like we made the people that taught me like we made our own soil in like concrete in like those concrete tumblers
You know, you'd buy one of those. No, you know, you'd buy you know
You'd buy your own concrete tumbler and you'd put all your yeah
and you put everything in it and you'd stir it up and then you pour it out and you're wearing a mask and
I mean, I had multiple friends go to the hospital for
Um fungus infections in their lungs. I said
from breathing guano
Yeah, so it was actually kind of dangerous. You kind of had to like eye and mask and glove up
To be because you're working with a bunch of shit and a bunch of animal byproducts and all this different stuff, right?
Yeah, and so I would try to make the headiest mix I could
Yeah, and I learned that like some strains
Consistently people like the organic one better
And some strains people some consistently like the salt
Without which do you remember? Do you know?
100
Straight the the the chems and the sours
uh
Typically like we're easier with salt
Yeah
Uh, the mendo perps the the super skunk a few different ones would come out really nice organic
Yeah, right
Um, and it's not like you couldn't it's not like they weren't good
It was just like what you preferred back to back and I think that's really important
For people I people have been asking me a bunch because i've been making some posts about various historical strains
Yeah, really the only way to have like an effective comparison
Is for you to grow it yourself
In your environment in your room same time
Okay, i'm going to get these four sour plants
Yeah, i'm going to grow them at the same time under the same environment
Right. I'm not going to get it from my buddy who grows a totally different style and his room's different temperature
Yeah, i'm gonna like it doesn't you just have to be able to see it in the same event, right?
So you can see all these plants all these plants for three four years. We're all treated the same way every time
Yeah, you know
and
and uh, you know, it was
And and and so
You know, and I have a bunch obviously you have a bunch of friends that smoke weed
So you're giving out ab joints
Yeah
right
And um and and trying to get feedback and I don't think most people ever compare
Styles, they're doing one style at a time
Yeah
Right. So how do you know what's different?
Right, and so we were trying to figure out like me and a few friends. We were trying to figure out well, what is better?
Yeah
What is what is and it was surprising in the sense that
you know and there's another aspect too where it's like you start to realize once you start to get a little bit more educated about
it, but
um
Indoor organic is almost never like outdoor organic
Yeah, I wouldn't know so well, I mean i'll give you a perfect example it makes total sense right so
Indoor organic is almost 100 organic
Right, it's like a mixture of peat moss and perlite and you know, or or cocoa or different things where outside
Maybe like 10 of the medium is organic
Yeah, and the rest of it is clay or or or crushed rocks
Minerals are like almost 45 of most soils
So like that's why they talk about like there's a six inch layer of topsoil
In a lot of places and that's like your organic matter and then underneath that it's a bunch of rock basically
It might be porous rock but crushed rock, but that's what most earth is
So like most people's organic inside is like soilless
With added amendments. Yeah, like you'd never find like if you took say like sunshine number four or something
And rice holes and other shit and you add all your amendments and you make this super heady mix
Yeah, it wouldn't exist in nature anywhere
Your mix yeah, it's like a cannabis specific mix basically for an indoor garden
Yeah, so you never actually really
Like any kind of organic inside is like a series of compromises
To begin with
Because you're not like scraping up a bunch of native earth
Yeah, and then using that
Yeah, I mean it's not really organic. Is it?
Well, I mean you can't call it organic. Anyway organic is like a federal term
Yeah, that's what I mean. It's like I don't even think legal weed
I don't even think legal weed you're allowed to use the term organic yet
Interesting. I don't think so because because organic is actually you have to you have to meet federal criteria
Yeah in order to to get the organic label and not be lying
Right. Yeah, but you can't get federal approval for cannabis because they still think it's it's it's funky
Yeah, you know people are saying we're getting artificial light is an organic, right?
So, you know and then there's a thing too where people talk about this is like a big keyword
and by no means am I trying to diss anybody but
What does living soil mean?
Right, you know, I always assumed it meant there were fucking worms and microbial life a bunch of that shit
Right, but almost all organic if it's active has a bunch of microbial life
Sure, you know if you if you take home a well-made tea from your hydro store
That they brewed fresh or you make tea yourself
You're putting in trillions of living organisms
Into your soil it's alive
You know, it typically means when people talk about living soil
They're basically talking about usually like a some kind of no-till method or some shit like that, right?
Yeah, but you know, but even that is like do you know why most people use no-till?
I have no clue to prevent erosion, dude
There's a lot of because if you don't till the earth then when the rain comes it's not going to wash away into the riverbank
Okay, does that make sense?
No
No, okay. So imagine imagine like you're on a factory farm in fucking, you know somewhere like iowa
Okay, and you're tilling the earth
Like a foot deep you're fluffing it up and you're making it all light and loose and then there's torrential rain that comes in
Okay, and in that runoff a bunch of earth washes away into the mississippi
Yeah, that makes sense, right? Okay. So that's how that's where most of our topsoil went when they talk about the dust bowl
in uh in in oklahoma
Yeah, they tilled up all the earth and the wind came up and it blew all the fucking earth away
It did there was like yeah because of the buffalo and shit there was like 10 feet of topsoil in oklahoma
Yeah, and they didn't know what they were doing with farming and they got a drought and they tilled it all up
And then all these huge winds came in and they and it washed it all fucking away
So I had no idea. That's what the dust bowl meant. That's what the dust bowl was. It was literally it was literally
People tilling farmland and then the farmland blowing away in the fucking storms
so weird, so
No, till is basically like this thing where in conventional agriculture
They don't want to till the earth and have it blow away or rinse away in rain
So they don't they don't till the earth they leave it right and they just dig a hole for for the plant
But a lot of them use conventional herbicides and kill all the weeds
Okay, so no till inside is like this guy just commented I thought no till was like not disturbing the microbial content
Well, that's what weed people say
For no for no till outside. It's that but it's also a huge amount of erosion control
But you don't have erosion problems indoors
Yeah, you could till all you want. It's not like you're gonna get a windstorm. It's gonna blow away your shit, you know
Yeah, that's why I was confused when you're talking about a windstorm i'm wondering how that applies to indoor for no till but that's
What I mean, but like no till was designed so the soil doesn't fly away
Yeah, and then it gets applied to an indoor environment where there's no wind
Yeah, that's yeah
Right. Yeah, and then you know, there's people and when i'm talking about nutrition
I'm sure i'm gonna people are gonna get all upset because i'm gonna you're gonna start stepping on toes and they're gonna say
Oh, well, no, it's about the layers of
Microbial and fungal and this and that not disturbing them or whatever, you know
Um, but to be honest like cannabis is a shallow root growth plant. It likes to grow wider than it goes deep
Yeah, and so basically what you're trying to do with cannabis is give it a not some kind of aerated good amount of air and water
And the ability for the roots to freely go where they want
Yeah
You know, so a hard compact soil. That's not that's not a good job
I i've also been i've also been accused of being wider than deep this this is uh wider than deep. Yeah
Yeah, shallow even
Shallow some say shallow someone say shallow
Wide is all in perspective. Someone say so getting back. So, you know getting back to like what all this means is that
You know, I I was reading some comments from some people the other day where they were talking about like their friends that do no till
It works amazing for certain strengths
Yeah, and then other strains they do don't respond very well to it
Or you know, you have a situation like we have a buddy up in trinity and it's like if you're going to do depths organically
Yeah, that's a lot harder than a single season where you can give it
You know a food designed for vegetative growth for a few years of months
Yeah, and then food designed for bloom for a series of months
it's not as easy organically to like
Get two or three rips out of the same thing a year
No, yeah, that makes sense
You know and time it perfectly for what you're trying to do. So it's like and I don't don't get me wrong
I think organic quality weed is like
Can be better than any salt?
To be honest, but I think a lot of people don't get there
Like salt has a way higher floor. There's a lot of poorly grown organic wheat
Yeah, you know and it's not like they're messing up. It's it's more just like the availability of the food isn't there when the plant needs it
Yeah, so that was like that
Huh, it took me years years and years and years to finally smoke organic weed that was really grown well organic
and and to me was as
uh
Well grown as anything grown
Badass and salts and that was from um, mad elite that dude kills it organic and changed a lot of my own ego with
Like thinking oh fuck salts are so much better so much easier
Why why waste the time because it was it was really special. I mean it also depends, you know, like
So, you know, you got to fit and this is kind of like what I said in the beginning where it's it's like, you know
You got to fit your growing style for what you're trying to do
Yeah, of course, right and that's important because they don't all fit
you know, yeah, and you know if
Let's face it like in today's economy with the weed price is so cheap and you know
No matter whether you're whether you're in the traditional market or you're in the fully legal market
Um, you know times are tough
Right, and so people are trying to get x amount of weight per greenhouse or per outdoor patch or per grow room, right?
And so you're trying to get as much pretty weed because people are visual as possible
Yeah, right and that's not necessarily heads. I mean even back in the old traditional days a lot of the guys
I knew that were running 50 or 100 lighters would get their heads from people that were growing six or eight lighters
Yeah, yeah, that's a pretty common thing even now
Yeah
well
the other part of it too is like back in the 215 days when anybody with a 215 card could
Go to a like a dispensary and excuse me legally sell their herb to that dispenser, right? Yeah
Think about that dispensary. There was no regulations. There was no cost of entry. They bought so much garage weed
Oh, yeah tons dude and they could just pick based on quality
Yeah, and guys are bringing in weed. That's like, you know, it was cut two weeks ago. It's fresh. It's still in the perfect form
It's in turkey bags. It's like not very regulated and they can just pick the best and ditch the rest
Yeah
Now with all this legality
You know a lot of times some of that weed doesn't hit the shelf for two or three months
Yeah, and it's being grown in these big salt factories
Or it's being grown at a scale where like all the little things that the eight the eight lighter guy could do they can't
So you
Huh, you you've actually experienced scaling up major, right? Oh, yeah. Why don't you talk about that?
I i've never done the except with the big big, uh reversal and having to save those dummies fucking
Already flowering crop for a reversal. I had never done major major scale as far as feeding and all that stuff. It was it was
Significantly different especially re-vegging at that scale. It was insane any you know, and there's a there's an aspect too where you can talk about
this is pretty funny because
You know, there was these people that just opened up like whatever it is like 126 acres and in fucking socal and they're calling it craft
Right. Yeah. Yeah
Everybody agrees that there's a difference between craft and commercial
Yeah, the difference is is that people get hyphy about like when does where is that line?
Yeah
You know and like I said before I used to never see the people that would do are great growers and doing a great job
They still would not get the same quality weed out of their 50 or 100 lighter that we would get out of a garage size
scene
Yeah
For the most part they just wouldn't they had way less time per plant
They weren't doing quite as many little things that made the plants happy, you know
Like it was a little bit more commercial and yeah, you know, and then there's an aspect too where it's like
They um, so scaling becomes hard and a lot of times when people scale they lose quality
So we could talk about that for a minute too, and i'm not trying to diss them
But you look at like the the jungle boys, right or some of these big, you know, rock wool factory farms
Yeah, they're doing that because they have all these different rooms
And relying on a bunch of hippies and weirdos to like hand water everything right every day is problematic
Yeah, for sure, you know, they're trying to automate all this different shit and then just like work on looking at the data
And then messing with the the settings and the data and not looking each individual plant, right?
Yeah, and so what they're doing is is that there's a lot of technology from northern europe
Um that basically is the basis of all hydroponics
Yeah, uh grodan all that they all learned how to do all this growing tomatoes and peppers and cucumbers and all these vegetables
For places that are shitty like northern europe, but have money. Yeah
And you can go there and you can see hothouses greenhouses that have tens of thousands of plants tens of thousands of lights
huge
Right, so you see these trick systems that they're installing
They're all based on that
Yeah
Right. Yeah, so they get all these things and they're looking at graphs, right?
And they've got they've got like the moisture meter and they're perfectly planning the wet and dry cycles and they're and they're
You know dialing in their their salts and everything and it's like even the setup itself is like a plumbing nightmare
It's so intense
And then people call their weed cardboard
Yeah, right because what happens is is they're you're trying to do a one-size-fits-all
And cannabis actually it turns out it doesn't like being fed perfectly its whole life
No, like they've done studies where they've shown that certain amounts of drought stress or certain amounts of stress to the plant
um
Actually creates more terpenes and more crystal
Yeah, i'm gonna say beat the hell out of your plant. No, i've seen it firsthand those straights stress like, uh,
Where did I first learn that about it? It was it had to do with uh bugs
Attacking the plant and and uh, that's why the trichomes are there
Yeah, bugs like bugs signal, uh, you know, they they signal a thing to the plant where I need to make more thc
I need to make it harder for them to crawl on me. I need to make it harder for them to bite me
You know and so you get these perfect rooms and everything's perfect
And everything's everything's dialed in and they're like fine tuning stuff and they have control over all their parameters, right?
and
Then their weed comes out
Not that good
You know and the guy that like, you know
Like they got a little dry and a little wilty a few times and they stressed here and there a little bit
Like that weed was happier
Yeah, there was it was better. But they're trying to grow like a reasonably good looking product at scale
Yeah, and they can't have fucking you know, three dozen rooms
And treat it like you have a garage
Or treat it like you have one greenhouse and no job
Yeah, you know, well, you know you have a situation there's people that you that are ig that are quite popular and they they don't
Have that many plants and they have a greenhouse
Yeah, and that's their job and you can go out there and you can baby them
And you can give them every little thing
But then you join a legal scene and and like you're working
I don't talk very much about what I was doing
But like you try to develop some things at scale and you've got to water some acreage
And it's a whole different thing
Yeah, and it's not that easy to do
No, I can't imagine
You know, there's so much to go wrong
A lot of people messed up even just going from how big they were doing just to like two or three or four ten thousand
square foots
Yeah
Like and they started really and they started, you know, really messing, you know, they started really messing up
Yeah, you know and and so
Like a lot of and that's why because because like dispensaries
Can't just buy the best weed from whoever walks in with a duffel bag anymore
Yeah, they were able to buy from like a lot of small time local gardeners
you know and the bay would get tons of people from
Even la la in san diego were flooded with weed from humble and lake. Oh, yeah
There was people that would drive up to my area every week to get weed to bring it down to the dispensaries
That was their entire gig
Was to flow it right into dispensaries
And so they could they could say yes or no to any weed that walked through their door
Right
and
Now there's all this regulation and there's all this thing and there's all this packaging and there's all this testing and there's all this time
And people are trying to learn how to grow on a lot bigger scale
And their weed is like
Yep way down
Way down in quality in my opinion
You know and people are going to learn they're going to get better over time
But right now customers are fucked because they're paying more than they used to
And the availability, uh is shittier
But at least it looks good on ig
It looks and that and that's another thing ig fucked it all up
Yeah, because you couldn't sniff it or smell it or anything like that like you you know, you could just see it
And so cookies cookies was perfectly timed for the social media wave
Yeah, because it was unusually
visually attractive
And very unique looking it definitely did stand out from what was out there
Yeah, and now there's a whole thing where you see so many of these different strains and a lot of them
I think have been chosen based on looks and testing
And they can be like not to judge it. Oh, look. Here's apple fritter and it tested 33% and look how fire it looks
And then it fucking is the worst herm bomb on the face of the earth for breeding
Are you smoking and everyone's all excited because the the people that they respect are hyping it and then six months later?
You know, you're like I don't think i'm gonna buy that seventy dollar eight
Yeah, it just didn't it just didn't hit it for me
You know what before before we scoot too far along
I do remember there's one thing that I wanted to talk about and when it's uh feeding for breeding as far as
Vegetative stuff one thing that I find a lot of breeders do when I talk to them and it's totally counterproductive
Is when you are running cycles of different rooms and different different strains you're trying to do multiple projects
And they're one after the other after the other
You start learning to feed differently to slow down the growth
To try to make room and that's not something that's that's totally counterproductive and counterintuitive
But some of us have learned how to stunt our plants and bring them out of being stunted
Because it's just there's no way to to constantly have that room to feed in new cycles
So, you know, there's things you'll do when breeding that you would never do for production because it would absolutely just butt
Fuck you for for grape flower. Well, yeah, I mean if you've got if you've got a big collection of moms and stock then
Very likely what you're doing is you're keeping a bunch at moderate. It's a small size
Under enough light to like keep them going and happy but nothing too vigorous
And then you've got always moderate health and then you're planning you're planning on putting some plants in like a vigorous
Very well lit spot to get them going
Because you have projects in mind for them and you want to get very vigorous cuttings and small plants going off them
And so there's a rotation there that goes in where it's like a fine balance. Yeah
hurting to
To not you know, if you're someone like kayla, you know, like like csi or whatever and you've got 150 different plants
In moms and then you've got a bunch of stuff you're keeping for phenol hunting and all of a sudden
You've got hundreds of different strains and in you might want to slow things down on a bunch of it
Yeah, a phenol hunt. You might want to keep it going really slow
Yeah, you know and even starve it somewhat
Until you see what you have because if you start pumping it like you're trying to pump it to get ready to bloom a room
All of a sudden you've got jungle growth and where do you put it all?
Yeah
Yep, especially keeping some of the older lines the the in all five hazes and stuff like that you get it gets junkly
So fucking fast
Yeah, it gets so juggling, you know, and then you know
and and so you have an aspect where it's like I just thought we could talk about it from a flower perspective too because
You try to talk to people and like the thing that I get the most when we you try to talk nutrition is like smugness
Like they people people are smug. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, like they want they want to know that i'm growing the better way
This way works
You know, what the fuck are you talking about? I get two and a half pounds of light. Everybody thinks my weed is fire
You know
And i'm not i'm not dissing anybody. I'm i'm not like that's not what i'm trying to say. I'm just trying to say that like
Very few people are doing side by sides to try to see
What methods are giving them better weed?
They're growing the same style at one time and if they change styles they change it over entirely
Yeah, you know and so you're not really comparing you're just and you know, most people's goals are just to sell it
Right. So yeah, there's things with organic like when I first moved here
There was people that have been using their beds or using their holes in the in the hills or whatever for 10 or 15 20 years
And every year those things got better and better
Right
Because they were able to add amendments. They were able to add, you know bacteria and various things
It was alive. It was like old and aged and fully functional and work and going good to go
If you're going to grow organic the first rip or two probably isn't going to be as nice as the fifth or sixth one
Okay, that makes sense because it take like, you know, you've heard about green sand
You ever heard about green sand green sand doesn't even become bioavailable for two years after you put it in
Yeah, same with uh normal silica, you know, it's like one year I think there's things that are on that are fairly immediate
There's things that take two or three months. There's things that take a year
You know, and so if you have aged if you have aged stuff, you know, like a lot of that breaking down and availability has happened
And yeah, and the natural cycle is doing it for you. But if you're starting a fresh facility
You're going to get a bunch of raw ingredients or whatever like, you know
Tossed together and you're gonna have to amend
Yeah
you know and so if you're like if if you probably
Another thing is that like if you're a small tent farmer or you're a small garage farmer
And you're just trying to grow the best you can
Don't try to copy some giant scene
Yeah, they are not the way for you. They are not growing as good a weed as you could on a smaller scale
You're like you're like a hobbyist slash farmer
Right, yeah, if you're gonna grow at scale you're gonna try to have to figure out how can I take the methods that I like?
And scale them up
Yeah, you're probably going to sacrifice some quality at scale
You know and you know, and if you're if you're trying to grow for seed then you know, then definitely you're not growing for flower
You're probably going to want to add more nitrogen. You're probably going to want to top dress with some different things
You know, I also like to use uh, and i'm i'm a sucker for power si
Just because I used you know regular silica for so long and didn't understand that it wasn't really
Very bioavailable for the plant and when I started using the power si stuff because someone was asking about feeding for veg moms and stuff
Like that that's probably been one of the the biggest game changers for me was that specific additive monosilicic acid or orthosilicic acid?
Because it makes it makes everything so readily and bioavailable. It's just so fast how quick it uptakes nitrogen and
Everything that goes along with it and I should also say something too, right like so whether you're organic or salt
Uh, one of the big reasons why things don't grow in winter is that the roots get too cold
Yeah, and then the pores shrink
and when the pores shrink and the and the and the
Relationship between the pressure but within the roots and within the the soil itself changes. They can't uptake salt
So if you're feeding with 50 degree water
And you've got and you're growing with like canna or you know or thena or any of these things people are mentioning
And it's too cold. Your plants are all going to suffer because the plant's not going to suck up the nutrition your ph can be perfect
Right, but the temperature is too much for it. It needs a certain temperature range
Yeah, and there's also a thing too where it's like water in the 80s holds like half the oxygen that water in the 60s holds
So there's actually like a window there
Yeah, where like mid 60s to low 70s is probably the best ratio of like absorbability versus like
Oxygen ratio because the only place your plant really absorbs oxygen is through its roots
Yeah, it takes co2 in through the leaves and it takes o2 in through the roots
You know and when people over water that's what fucks the plant up is there's no oxygen in there
Yeah, that's the roots. Yeah, the roots can't breathe so they drown
right
and so
You know, there's an aspect where it's like if you're growing indoor and you want to be organic
Um, there's trade-offs like you see these people that are like, oh, they're i'm on the 26th cycle
You know, I just add various amendments over time. I just water it the bio, you know, the
It the organic does what it needs to do the plant absorbs what it wants when it wants
But then I have people that grow organic that grow in pots and their whole goal
Is to give it enough food to veg and bloom to where they want
And then run out of food
towards the end
So that the plant starts to starve itself for nutrition and you start getting all those beautiful autumn colors on the plant
Yeah, and then when you harvest it
It's used up all of its excess because if you're growing knf style or you're growing
Like stuff that's amended that you just you know, you're no till and you're never changing it
Well, then you're never flushing for instance. Yeah
And so some people are a big believer in flush
Mm-hmm, you know whether you're even salt or organic some people want to give it just the amount of food it needs and then starve it
Yeah, and some people give it chock full food right up until the end of flower
Yeah, and a lot of times when you're growing for production
You know like people the other thing is is like when you're growing for flour
And this always used to make me laugh right is that people want the best weed
But one yellow leaf and you fucked up
Yeah
You know, they're looking at a bag and they're like, oh there's a little bit of there's a tiny bit of brown in there
Yeah, there's a tiny little bit of yellow. You should give me a deal
This is some fucked up weed and you're like no I flushed it for two weeks. It's perfect
And they're like no no it's got some funk in it so a lot of people will just pump it
Right up until the day of harvest
Because it looks better because it looks better to the broker. It's not gonna smoke as good
Yeah, but it looks better to the broker
Yeah, and that's what they care about. They don't want the broker to bitch and start kicking the tires and try to knock points off
Yeah
Right, and so then people don't grow as nice a weed
I mean, there's even a thing where
like
You know, uh, i'll say this about the chems where it's like if you grow
The dog or what people call the chem 91 now and you take it what we all used to take it which is about 70-ish days
It usually tests between 18 and 22
Percent yeah, and it knocks your head off
right
But if you take it 53 or 54 days
It'll still have white hairs all over it, but it'll test 28 to 32
Yeah, and so a lot of people that like put it on the market. They take it early
Right to get that high percentage because the the shop and the and the distro or whatever
Like it's one they don't want to give you for a 19 or 21 percent weed
They don't want to give you the price point. That's so fucking but if it's 31
So you'll you'll see weed and you're like i'll look at this weed and i'll be like that dog is like two weeks premium
Yeah, but it tests at 30
And the shop is happy
Yeah, the distro is happy and they'll give you your price
Yeah, and it's not as good for the smoker
Right, but something a lot in a lot of cases like these regulations and these new rules
Are not taking the smoker into account
I mean it in some sense though, like I think smokers may have priced themselves out just by
Just by
Absorbing things like cookies things things that are you know
Cardboardy with high thc stuff and they were happy with it
Despite most people like when you really ask them like do you really like like that?
You know the form cut do you really like getting high off that like they'll be like, oh, it's okay
You know for 20 minutes or 10 minutes and then it's you know, whatever but
Yeah, they kind of let themselves be told what to buy
You know they do and this is where we ended up
They so there's an aspect one of the things that's interesting
and it's something I mentioned before but it bears repeating I guess is like the first four or five years that they
Published like the emerald cup and like some high times entries for thc
Mm-hmm and you were able to see
Like, you know before people were breeding by numbers
Before a lot of breeders were getting data on like what you know
What the what the thc content was almost everything that was winning was between 22 and 26
Yeah, there was like four or five things
in the first five years
Like that ever tested in the upper 20s or hit 30. Yeah. Yeah, right again
Like in two of them were chem 91. There was a strawberry cough. There was another weird one
You remember how rare the 30% club used to be? Yeah. Yeah, it was unheard of until like
2009 10 people started claiming the 30s 30 right and so now you have this so
Basically all the favorite lead that people were paying good digits for
Was coming in in the low to mid 20s at best. Yeah, so it basically means as soon as you hit high teens to mid 20s
That's where almost all the elites were falling
Yeah, everything that everybody fucking drools over from back then kushes sours fucking all this shit was all hitting that range
Yeah, and then people started growing because shops were like i'll pay you more for higher thc
Yeah, so they start selecting
cuts that test better
Yeah, not necessarily ones that smoke better
and start
Selecting labs that test higher. So now that's why I say breeding by numbers. Yeah
So you're instead of breeding by smoke testing and what your friends think and how long lasting the high is like you were mentioning
Or how intense it might be they start being like, oh, well this one tests at 32 and four percent terpenes
There is no such thing as a fucking high 30 yet. Is there?
I mean are we in the high 30s now?
So, I mean there's there's a lot of things that people do like like, uh,
You know csi have talked about this a bunch where there's a lot of labs that over test
Sure, because it's good for the distro. It's good for the store. It makes an easy sale. Everybody likes it
And so he's done experiments where he sent things off to commercial labs
And sent the same bud to a friend who he knows is going to do an accurate test
And it might be as much as five or eight percent different
Oh, yeah, i've seen it much different vastly different it's insane
But the thing is is now you've got five or six or seven or eight years ten years or whatever breeding by numbers
And there's a huge 30 plus percent club. Oh good. Good skunk master flex posted something. It's 40. Well, there we go
So you start getting higher and higher right and but then the effect sucks
Yeah
So then what does it matter? Yeah, you know, I mean
I
I had a blueberry purple punch test at 34. So, you know anything's possible
You can't even pull those numbers out of individually, you know
And what's crazy about that is when you think about 30 or 35 or 40 like matt was just laughing about
That's the percentage of thc by weight on the flower
Yes
So yes, it's crazy because you start getting these numbers and it's like is it just going to be?
like
You know how much thc can you pack on a plant?
Yeah, and how much is left for cannabinoids and other cannabinoids and yeah
And it's not obviously like alcohol where ever clear is stronger than vodka, which is stronger than wine
Which is stronger than beer. It doesn't work like that
like there is
There is a certain situation where like, you know csi and I see fletch on there
There's some old school strains that only test like eight ten twelve percent
Yeah, and they don't hit that hard but once you get up to 18 to 20 to 22 to 24
That's where like all the elites and the old best weed faults
You know where most of the skunky stuff is falling right now that we've been looking at low teens
No
four to eight
Four to eight for the most skunky stuff. I mean, you know the the mendo perps is supposedly, you know
Seed from the late 70s or whatever. Yeah, um and it tests, you know eight or ten percent
at best
Yeah, some of the s1s can get up into the high teens
But the mom cut itself is pretty low
You know and I think that used to be super common. Like I think even like old school skunk one, right?
It was for 13 to 15 back then
Yeah when they could get testing done
You know, um, and so we've gone from like the start of everything where things were
You know low to you know single high single digits to low teens to mid teens to upper teens low 20s
Yeah, and now it's all maybe it's all fake or whatever
But um, it doesn't seem like after a certain point there's a big correlation between high numbers and best effect
No, not at all
because my friend would get all pissed off because he'd be like dude, I don't know if
I don't know if I can get your weed for the right price. This dog is only this chem 91 is only testing at 18
But it took your head off
Yeah, you know, but they would rather take two week preemie
chem 91
Because it tested 29
Yeah
Right. And so I just I just think that like people started rather the only thing that matters is like how
How it affects you?
And yes, the more people get away with effects and like not testing stuff like by smoking it with a variety of humans
Yeah, because even one person two people like some of my favorite weed is stuff that matt doesn't like at all
Yes, just not that he doesn't appreciate it. It just doesn't make him feel good
Yeah, yeah, some of it just fucks me up like paranoid or anxiety or yeah
Yeah, some people get some people get weirded out. Some people love a buzz some people like sativa
I mean there's a range of of effect
Yeah, and so I think if you get away from like, I don't think a bunch of people are doing smoke testing anymore
Yeah, they're trying to find something that looks impressive and tests impressive
Yeah, right and then all of a sudden now we have a bunch of like midzi elites
Yeah, right
We have a bunch of elites where it's like people were saying. Oh, I hate fritter, you know, like well
There was a minute there where like and people are growing stuff because they're like, oh this weed gets this amount of pound
Yeah, it's an elite
So i'm gonna grow lemon cherry gelato
Or i'm gonna grow this runts by this or i'm gonna grow this jealousy cut because my buddies can get a top dollar for it
And i'm not i'm not trying to call it mids
But it's probably not going to stand the test of time
No, you know like like right now sour is coming back around diesels
Yeah, why because it's fireweed
And it works and it smokes and it tastes great
Yeah, you know and that weed that works
Is always going to have a popularity basis
Yeah, or weed that doesn't work, you know, like you can only the hype boys can only hype it for so long
I mean burner can obviously sell the shit out of anything
Yeah, yeah, you know
He's great at promotion. He's great at getting hip-hop and rap and various stars smoking his weed and exclusive spots and building up
But he's a horrible horrible kisser. I have no idea. You know, don't let him lie to you
He's a liar about that shit
But there's an aspect where it's like you can only promote something for you can only force people to like something for so long
Yeah
Before they make their own decision
Yeah
Right, and so that's why
That's why you have all this shit that like gets like flash in the pan that gets popular for eight or ten months
Or a year a year and a half
Yeah, and then it's gone. It's replaced by some new hype
Yeah
Where things that used to get popular before like the purples or the cushes or the sours or whatever the skittles?
When they become organically popular
Right where it's like grassroots popularity drives it. They're a lot more lasting
Yeah, then when it's hyped
You know
Yeah, because hype has become marketing cannabis weed wasn't weed wasn't ready for modern marketing, dude
No, we weren't ready for it at all. We were so ripe to be abused by modern advertising techniques
Yeah, then like, you know, it just got overwhelmed and people realized oh, I don't even need to have good weed to make money
10 years ago that shit wouldn't have worked. Everybody would have laughed at a motherfucker for trying to front that hard
You know, but nowadays it just flies 10 years ago
The only way something became elite was when enough people that were respected decided it was good
Yeah, and like or you know the market demand or the market demanded it
Yeah, and the market
really when it boils down to it when you have stuff like the purple wave with the urkel and the mendo pee and the
Grape ape and all those and granddaddy and all that or you have the cush wave in southern california or the sour thing that happened
for 10 years
That was market dictated a bunch of a bunch of people wanted to get as much of it as they could
Yeah, because they knew that the customers would endlessly buy it. They didn't get burned out
Yeah, that's why you can have 40 different fucking named cushes in socal
Yeah, I was trying to name them all the other day and it like made me want to pound my head against the because
There's literally like you could walk into and you know
2010 you could walk into a dispensary in la and they would literally have like two dozen kinds of cush
Oh easily some of them have like 50 60 different types of ogs. Yeah
All these different names and some of them were repeated and just somebody of course. Yeah, they just had different names
Yeah, but yeah, like the entire dispensary
Was one family of wheat and slight variations
Yeah, you know and you know from the east coast and different things coming to california sour was like endless
Yeah, there was endless demand for gas
You know and now
Instead of seeing endless demand for one or two things that people can focus on a lot of growers are like what the fuck?
Do I even grow?
Yeah, because if you're in the legal market
You don't have a direct connection with your consumer
You have to get a distro and uh, unless you own them you have to get a distro and then a dispensary to buy it
I remember red
um up in canada talking about that with the the canadian legal stuff about
Now they have the buyers or are people that aren't even from cannabis now and they are who?
Determine what value you're getting for your weed non-smoking. Oh, yeah
Corporate people honestly, that was a depressing part of that. I really liked that interview. He was super personable. Yeah, that was hard to listen to
Uh, just the just the reality of what matters and what doesn't
Yeah, and him looking at at testing and paperwork
And deciding what to do without even seeing the wheat because if it didn't have the testing and the paperwork, right? It was irrelevant
Yeah, it just didn't matter and so a lot of times okay
There's a lot of stuff out there that's really fireweed and the reason why you can't get it
Is because it doesn't make financial sense for the grower to grow it because the people that are in between him and you
Don't want to do it
Yeah, so you get fucked
You personally out there you get fucked because the growers friends get to have it
Sometimes, you know, it gets traded amongst each other. It gets survived and all that, you know
But the consumer doesn't get to see it
Yeah, you know and we were joking i'll mention it one more time because there's there's this, you know
Huge grow that's getting set up in socal
It's like over 100 acres and everybody was ragging on them or whatever because it's like another big
Corporate takeover type thing, right? Yeah, and you look at their clone list and they're getting a bunch of gelato hybrids and skittles hybrids
Right, like the market is underscored underserved right now with gelato and skittles
Yeah, they really got to fill that niche
Yeah, of course not, you know
And so and you know if customers could buy straight from the farm or straight from cooperatives or whatever
You know, then cooperatives would be able to grow more niche weed
You know and be like, oh i'll do some try to get some real bubba kush
Yeah, try to find some real sour diesel
Try to find some urkel try to find you know, there should be with legality all the classics you should be able to buy
Led zeppelin
In the in the in the record store, oh I was like what they got
I just mean imagine like you're like, oh no, it's not popular anymore. You weren't around the 70s. You can't buy it
Oh, yeah. Yeah, like legal weed there should be a thing where it's like all the hits if we're gonna compare it to music, right?
You can go get all kinds of punk. That's like way out of date
Yeah, but you can't get acapulco gold
Yeah, you can't get urkel
You can't get you know g13 nl2. You can't get you can't get the classics of weed
Right and so right now california itself is a wash and all this candy name bullshit
Right, which is fine. If people want to buy that stuff, it's fine
I'm, not i'm not trying to throw it out there, but you can't
You know like, you know, it can't all be sherbet
It's like it is though it is like why can't I get real sour diesel? Why can't I get real?
Kush, why can't I get trinity? Why can't I get bubble kush?
Yeah, why can't I get granddaddy purple?
Yeah, you know because because there's there's like, you know consumers don't have power
To demand they have to go to the store and they have to buy what the store wants to put in their store
Yeah
You know and that that might be getting chosen based on their margin
There's this company up by me fucking flo conna, right? They blew through a shit ton of money
Do you I don't know if people know this but like there's a lot of big companies that pay dispensaries for shelf space
Yeah straight self space shelf space
Like be you know and that and that's a profit they make just to put the fucking the weed on the shelf
So the consumer can see it
You know in the 50s or in the 60s or whatever there was that huge
Record scandal because everybody all the djs disc jockeys. It was pay to play
Oh, yeah, the payola. Yeah. So how how does how does your how does your hit get be popular?
If you can't get a radio station to play it so people hear it and they want to go buy your album
Yeah, and there's people that were getting bribed to play certain things and not play others
Yep, i'm connecting it to music again
But it's the same fucking thing these dispensaries because there's not enough of them
They're deciding what gets on their shelf and not and they're deciding it what's based on what's good for them
Yeah, not what's good for the consumer out there. What's good for them?
Yeah, you know, so
Choice has actually gone down
Quite a bit quite a bit expenses up quality is down choice is down
And how do you how do you like let's say that that you know csi or somebody like or me or whoever?
Fletch comes up with an amazing new hybrid
Yeah
Right unless you're vertically integrated and you can control the supply chain. You can't even guarantee you're going to get it in a shop
Oh, yeah, you can't guarantee at all that a bud tender will give a shit
Yeah
You know
So it's like a whole deluge of like everything that's already pop already popular
and variations on that theme
you know and it gets controlled and so
The reason why I think that all these elites from I always talk about like the 90s and the early 2000s are still my favorite
era a weed
Is it because the best weed from then was consumer choice?
Sorry, I just read that question popped up after everything we said
Anyway, yeah anyway, but you know, but yeah that you know it it all the you know
Sour became popular kush became popular because people wanted it
They were willing to spend a bunch of money on it. There was demand
And yeah, you know and and people wanted to fill that demand
Yeah
And now it's like oh, it's you know
It's here's a bunch of here's a bunch of weed and with nurseries people might not know this but most most like cultivators
They don't even get to keep their own mom house. They have to get it from a nursery
That's so wild and then the nursery might offer 10 or 15 different things for this season
They might have a hundred things but they're only they only mommed up enough to do like a lot of certain stuff
Yeah, so then you're you're forced to operate off their menu
So it's like the nursery limits you
Right, like when I was working in a big scene a couple of years ago
I was trying to find some some some real sour diesel like on the legal market metric
Yeah
And I couldn't find it pure
Of course the best thing I could find was spy rock sour which was some sour across the some kush
I couldn't find it pure to grow on the farm. I was consulting it
Yeah, you know, but back in the day in 215 you could be like, oh we're gonna fill these four greenhouses with this
Yeah, and then we're gonna take duffel bags to the dispensary
And then you're gonna buy it
People are gonna be stoked
64 ruin the fucking world. I'm most of most of most of uh
Most of the good cushion a lot of the good kush that was in la came from my neck of the woods
Yeah, there was constantly brokers coming up that their entire job was just to grab excess capacity from up here and bring it down to the
SoCal
You know dispensaries
Yeah
You know and and so people could go hunt the best weed
and then go and then the and then the you know, the the uh dispensaries could pick the best week if they wanted to
Yeah now it's like they have to buy it from a dispense
They have to buy it from a distro and the distro has to buy it from a farmer
And it just turned everything into like a commodity
Yeah
You know and so as a result of that everybody I never thought I was worried about a bunch of shit with legalization
I never thought that like we would accept way higher prices than the black market or the gray market and shittier quality
Yeah, but so far that's what we've gotten
Yep
Sure is
You know, that's what we've gotten
and so, you know, we started off talking about
And the reason why we've gotten that is because you have all these
commercial farms that have intense pressure with taxes and overhead and regulations and paying out all this fucking money, right and
quality and consumer happiness is like they do the best they can in some instances, but it's not that great
But they're doing the best they can with the constraints they're put under
Yeah, and a lot of little things that used to get done to make weed nice is getting eliminated
Yeah, and so your weed isn't as nice
You know when people talk about all the time your weed is fire your weed's not fire
Yeah, you know and a lot of times
It's like some of these things like the emerald cup and all this different shit, you know
Like and i'm not saying this i've known tim for a long time. So this isn't a disadherent on any level but
When you're forced to basically like for the most part only accept from like licensed buyers
People aren't entering the best weed in california anymore
No, no
Because you have to cut off this large segment of the population that used to win fucking cups
Yeah, they used to be able to come there with their perfectly grown greenhouse weed
From their little greenhouse that they treated perfect and they got to give two four two to four ounces to the testing
And then they placed third
Yeah, oh
But you know
But but the thing is the difference fletcher's like stop shitting on my weed
The difference between fletcher from what like from archive from what I understand is that they have a dispensary
Yes, they have control
Archive can make a choice to i'm like i'm going to take the moonbow. I'm going to take this that I love
And i'm going to make sure consumers get it
Yeah
right
So but most farmers most farmers in california aren't vertically integrated
Yeah, they have to sell their week they have to sell their week
You know and so if you're vertically integrated then you can have some uniqueness and you can choose like
He could choose to take things that he doesn't want to share
And you can only come to his stores to get them
It's no fair motherfucker
You know and and a lot of people are cut off and a lot of people's top shelf. No dispensary's top shelf used to be
six to twenty lighters
Yeah
You know done by small scale people
And that was constantly filling the top shelf because that was the top shelf
Yep. Now all those people are fucking cut off
And what used to be the midzi shelf is now top shelf
For more money while those people are looking for new fucking jobs
Kind of stuff, you know and so a lot of the best weed got cut off from consumers
Yeah
You know before they could even smoke it
You know, you can't like I don't know you can't you can't get real haze in california
Yeah
No, you can't get real sour diesel. It's starting to make a comeback. Maybe it'll start forcing itself on some shelves
Yeah
But there's only but then there's all this stuff too where it's like
These vertically integrated companies like if you're going to get from jungle boys or whoever
Jungle boys or whoever you're probably going to get mostly their weed that they're growing because they want to sell their weed through their outlet
Yeah
Too so then you know, you get the selection from them
You know and a lot of these dispensaries have captured markets
So what you're getting is you're getting a lot of commercially grown weed
That they're trying to grow for cheap
And get a minimum level of quality
And then you're trapped because you can only there's only you know, 700 stores in california
You got to buy it on one of them and you can't really get great deals. So you end up
Like getting a bunch of expensive commercial
Yeah, and that access to that actual top self top shelf that actual fire that was treated deliciously and grown
Perfectly with organic or salt or whatever and all the little things done the right way
Yeah, you don't even get to see that anymore
Yeah, like you know, what's funny is uh
All these american beer companies were never winning any any beer awards
Did you know that right? No, so these all these like international competitions
Obviously like mickelobe and milwaukee's best and budweiser and all that
We're never winning any gold medals at any of these at any of these competitions
The beast wasn't winning medals. No
So they made their own
They made their own category american lager
Oh, so now a bunch of these companies have gold medals
Because they were only fucking competing against themselves
Yeah, right when they were competing against other micro breweries and places from belgium and germany and all that shit. They had no chance
Yeah, their beer wasn't as good
Yeah, right. So now you're getting the same thing here where you're getting all these big factory farms and they're like do you want?
Old style. Do you want old milwaukee? Do you want mickelobe? Do you want budweiser? Do you want cores?
Yeah, you know like oh you want some heady. How about some heineken?
Yeah, what's maybe some amstel light get an import?
Right, and that's what you're competing against. You actually can't get these little
You can't get these little things where the quality really matters
And until they open that stuff up, so if you're growing for yourself
I said it before
Don't emulate some big farm
Yeah, they're cutting corners
They're doing things that only work at scale
You know
Uh and and all that right like do things there's there's a there's a I mean it's I don't want to get too technical because i'm
Trying to keep it general
enough
that like, uh, you know, it it stays fairly popular because I don't know how many people are actual growers on this thing versus just
smokers or whatever, but yeah, um
But yeah, it's it's it's there's an aspect where it's like plants don't drink the same
It's really hard to like just automate everything
And there is micro climates even like we've done this in reversing a shit load how how?
One clone to the next clone won't reverse the same way
Even if they're two feet apart from each other or a foot apart from each other getting the same exact feet
Micro climates are a real thing too. So yeah climates and some of those big rooms. The micro climates are really different
Yeah, you know and I mean we haven't even talked about spectrum
But yeah that has a big if you're not growing with with the sun
Um, one of the best lights to this day is still the single-ended old school horlux thousand
A lot of these grown under double-endeds and stuff like that like a lot of them people are choosing spectrums that give the most weight
Yeah, and not blends that give a better quality
Yeah
You know, uh, and because because we're not in a position yet. It's like such a regulated and taxed industry
That the best isn't allowed to bubble to the top
Yeah, it's controlled
by dispensaries by dispos by
Burner by people popularizing things by celebrities stepping in and people throwing their money around
And so that's why that's why if you're if you're bummed at how your the weed sucks in clubs, that's why
Yeah
Because consumer choice has gone way down since 215
We are at an hour and a half right now dang
People want to start winding it down. We could start doing the shit. You want to take some questions or I could take some questions
I mean I could talk to maybe i'll talk for five or ten minutes
Even though we're winding it down because I haven't uh, I haven't talked about it. But
Aside from nutrition and environment, which we kind of talked about a little bit before
Um the spectrum that the plants grow under makes a big difference
And that could probably be its own whole show but just in general
Plants developed underneath the sun which has all the spectrum all the time everything from uv to
You know every color
huge
Where most indoor lights are approximations of that and they have relatively narrow spectrums
Yeah, right and you put plants underneath them and they grow vastly differently depending on what kind of light they're exposed to
We used to 20 years ago when there wasn't all these other lights we would grow one light of metal halide
And the buds would come out half the size
But they would burn better and they'd be way frostier than the hps stuff
Yeah
Now you see all this stuff with ceramics and leds and this and that and everything else and it's like
Different plants some plants respond to like a different different types of light and do well regardless
Different types of light and do well regardless
Some plants do phenomenal under one type of light and then like you move them and you think oh i'm gonna put them under this
And it's gonna do great and then they hate it
Yeah, because they're not getting sometimes you'd see people where
They were growing all these straight hps's
And then they'd have straight up old school metal halides like hanging from the ceiling
Yeah, you mean the vertical ones? Yeah vertical just just to give but I just mean I still got scars from those fuckers
But just just to give a different spectrum like not to be the majority of it, but just to shine some blue
Yeah, so the plants had that to use and you remember like the crusty buckets
Yeah, that guy's that guy swore if you didn't have 25
metal halide light
You couldn't get those kind of huge plants
Yeah, he swore if you if you had all hps you get you get shittier weed
Yeah in order to get the size and the frost you needed some blue
Yeah, and that's partially why the old hps single-ended a lot of people considered them to be the best all-around light and they were the
Standard because they had 25 percent more blue
Yeah, you look at their spectrum versus like a double-ended right now. That's hps and the hps is almost all orange and red
Yeah, very little uv very little and so I I have a bunch of plants like my headband and my sours and dog and stuff
You know and you grow them under different lights I grew that I grew the dog once under pure ceramic
Yeah, I cut it at 85 days and it still had white hairs
Yeah, and you know what's weird is that I grew the dog shit under that same light
And it finished two weeks earlier than it normally would
with a different spectrum
Yeah with the with the cma normally the dog shit would go 12 or 13 weeks. Yeah, I grew it under pure
3100 ceramic metal halides
It was done in 70 days every hair turned fully ripened. I've got beautiful pics of it. It's shaved two weeks off, but the same spectrum
Made the dog go two weeks longer than i've ever taken her. Yeah, that's funny
I've never taken the dog 85 days of my life, dude. Yeah
You know, she's she's 65. She's 63 to 70 and she's pretty done
Yeah, and but when I finally cut her and I gave up
Tons of white hairs all over
Yeah, so, you know maybe like as a as a final thing if you're trying to grow heads
Spectrum plays a big deal food plays a big deal. Your style definitely helps and like less is more
Yeah in a lot of ways like just enough
And nothing more is a better style than like let's give it way too much and pump it
Let's supersize it. Let's get hot, you know, let's run hot
um, you know, I don't
That's not gonna that might give you better weight, but I doubt it'll give you better better wheat
yeah, you know and so
and that's a lot of times like what what it happens is like
Like whether it's drying or curing or growing or your nutrition or your environment
Like growing the same strains over and over they're your favorites and learning why some rips they come out amazing
Yeah, and some rips you're like
You know
Yeah, because even good growers get they get the ant runs
Oh, yeah
Yeah, I mean honestly people people are still using shit other than leds. I think leds have come a long way
I'm, still not convinced. They're better than a blend of other light
I still have never even tried led lights. So if any led light sponsors want to sponsor
I'll give it a fucking try but I I tend to like cmh quite a bit
Do I think that leds are great for for various aspects of heat?
Do I do I have I started seeing a lot of nice weed under them and do they have good applications I do
But I still think some of the best heads you can ever grow are off an old school hortilux single-ended bulb
Yeah
You know
A lot of award-winning weed and a lot of fire came out of that
Yeah, the whole indoor sour era the whole indoor cush era the whole indoor
Purple era all grown under those bulbs, you know, I always hated fucking hortilux
That is they had a chick that was running it and they were so anti-fucking cannabis
It was retarded how anti-cannabis that company was and how much money they made off cannabis growers. Yeah, I mean it's well, you know
There's prohibition. It's it's it's dangerous
there's a
Like we could wind it down, but i'll tell a story. So I live in mendo
and one time
Uh, I was friends with the uh, I was friends with the produce guy at our safeway
And there was one point in willets where that safeway sold more organic produce than any safeway in the country
Yeah, because there was so many fucking of us
Right. It was just unbelievable. So this guy he tells me this funny story of this guy
from
reynolds comes in
right
because
This safeway was the number one selling
Turkey bag store for reynolds turkey bags in the entire country. We were number one. He couldn't believe it
They came out there to figure out
What the hell is going on?
Why are people cooking so many fucking turkeys? Why are people cooking? They had no idea. They were like this zone
We have more like can we spread what we're doing here?
To other parts because our sales are through the fucking roof, you know, yeah, and when they found out it was all for weed
Like the dude's face just you know, he was just so bummed right?
But it was it was like because back then you couldn't get like turkey bags in 50 or 100 packs like you can today
Yeah, you would have to go to the store
And like the turkey turkey they came in like two or three packs. Yeah. Yeah
So if you had you know an indoor and 20 pound you had to buy 10 back 10 boxes
Yeah, and you're at the store, you know, it's like buying like lube or something like that
You're like you want to get other shit
Why I never got the turkey bag fucking thing because it's not like it really kept smells
It was the standard it was it was a bag that fit a pound
You could tie it and like the thing is with fluffy weed if you didn't get the bigger turkey bag
You could not have enough of a tail to make a knot
And seal it down. Yeah off of off a full pound. So like where do you get a bag that can fit a pound?
Yeah, that's a good point. That's a very good point, you know, and it's like you grow kush or something or you know urkel
You're gonna get a a tight pound
Yeah, right you grow diesel and it's gonna be like a a tall pound yeah
You know
So there's an aspect to it where it's like it just became the standard
And one days of fighting over fucking sizes of bags and weight
Yeah, and and so the amount what's crazy is that like will the will it's safe way learned?
And they just had I mean they would just they would they would just buy immense amounts of the shit
Yeah
all the time it was like such a huge seller for so long because there wasn't
Eventually companies started making where you could go to the hydro store
And you could buy like 25 or 50 or 100
And it was like something you could purchase there and not be so embarrassed
But yeah, you had to back in the day. You had to just go into the grocery store
Yeah, that's where you fucking got it. You know, yep, and that's how it fits. So
um, so yeah, I guess we've been on I mean we've been
I the reason why we wanted to chat about this is because we thought that
Uh, and we could get deeper into it
So you can always reach out to us on our discord which matt'll plug or you can reach out to us on ig or whatever
But there's a lot of different strategies. I didn't want to nerd out too hard
But there's a lot of depth to what kind of weed you're trying to grow and what your goals are for it, right?
And how you want to feed it and how you want to treat it and it matters
You know and so don't just look online at someone you think is killing it
And just feel like oh, I figured it all out. I don't have to ask any more questions. I'm good. I'll just
Replicate this one method
And I know all I need to know
Yeah, because a lot of times there's a lot of issues with them
You know, so
you know, um
So yeah, I mean matt i'm i'm not very good at doing the plugs matt do the plug on the discord and the whatnot
You've got it. So, um
Our discord you have to go to google type in breeders syndicate patreon and that's how you find us
Uh, we have our discord. We have all kinds of uh additional features
At the discord that we can enjoy together. Um, we're always there shooting the shit talking
Fucking around posting pics just being obnoxious. I'm me i'm being obnoxious on there. I try to be as obnoxious. I can't be and um,
We have right cco.com. I promise i'm gonna get the hawaiian lights hybrids up
There's only three up right now
Um, we were having problems figuring out why they weren't displaying and hopefully they'll that's fixed I think
So hopefully those will be up there and you can grab them this weekend. My apologies for being late a week
Um or two weeks maybe I think um, what else is there?
Uh, speakeasy seed bank all of our friends are on there go check it out
Go show support and i'll plug too after years of not dealing with it
I have my follower list
And I accepted thousands of new people I also rejected a shit ton of people so if you got rejected
Uh, maybe who knows maybe I was in a bad mood. Maybe you didn't have enough posts
Maybe whatever you can always message me and say hey, dude, I listen add me
You know, i'll try to keep up on it from now on we're gonna try to create more content
Um, basically, we're just trying to shoot the shit about culture history and growing better wheat
Yeah, and so you can always ask us questions you can always hit us up
Uh on ig if you have ideas for shows that you might want to talk about maybe it takes us a while to get them
but um, you know, we want to talk about what you want to hear
You know, and and so
You know, some of it will be can be user generated. You can always ask us longer questions and get better responses
um on the discords
You know and we talk about various subjects and things like that and it's easier it's easy to get there so
You know, uh, we're trying to do our best
we're trying to do a little different podcast than most or you know live or whatever and just basically like
You know just have it be like a little bit about culture and life and growing in a mix
So, yep, you know, thank everyone for listening on their friday night. We'll be back again. Same time same place all that
Yep, and uh, you have anything to add
No, I think that's it. Well everyone have a great friday night. Thank you so much. Enjoy your evening
