Howdy! What's up everyone? How's everyone doing? I'm barely awake. I apologize in
advance. I've been on a backwards fucking schedule so yeah. Gotta move again soon
so fun there. Everybody loves moving. That's how I feel about that. So now we're just
waiting for Natsu to show up so we can get this party started. I came a little
early. That's what she said.
What's up, Bulldog? How's everyone doing? Before Natsu gets here, don't
forget to join the Patreon guys. We have some cool shit going on tomorrow. There's
some fights I'll be watching and it'll be cool. I also have the Hawaiian Lights
drop for the Patreon folks. All the hybrids are out and they've been out for
about a week. I'll be adding those to the non-Patreon very soon so we got those
going on. Lots of good shit popping off. Farm stuff too. If you checked out those
fan lines, those are up right now for everyone. All right. Well Natsu should be
joining us anytime soon. Except that I accepted it. Guess we will see. Until then
I'll just keep staring at my own fucking head. There he is. What's up, you
silly bastard? How you doing? I'm all right. I got allergies and my internet
connection sucks today. So I apologize ahead of time for any bullshit. That's
all good. I'm still getting over the sickness that I've been having. Mostly
just in my chest and in my sinuses still. It's fucking bad though. Whatever
I got with Diane. I don't think I'm getting sick. I just think it's Mendo and
springtime and things are blooming. Yeah. Everything's out and about, you know? Yeah.
Yeah. It's about that time, isn't it? It is here. It's good. You know, things are...
I mean, what's funny is like a million years ago when I first came to
California to see the Grateful Dead and Jerry Garcia band. I came out here in
spring, right? Yeah. And everything was green. And coming from Illinois where I'm
from where it's flat as a pancake because of the glacier. I thought it was
like Ireland. Yeah. It was all like rolling hills and flowers and it was
brutally cold where I lived. And it was so nice here. And I had no idea. I got to
like 110 and everything died in summer. Yeah. You know? Yeah. Oh, I know. Oh, I know.
Here it gets to be like 120. So yeah, you live in the literal frying pan.
Yeah, we live in hell. Yeah, you live in hell. So that's not my
favorite part of California. What? I know. I know, dude. I know. You know? I mean, I
appreciate the desert. But it's not my spot. We burst Kevin McCarthy. Come on.
You did, you know, if you like flat and dry and very, very hot, you know? Yeah.
Warm nights. And good people. Good fun. Yeah, indeed. So what is our topic for
tonight as far as education goes? As far as education goes, I thought we would
chat about a couple of things. We would talk about maybe sort of like the very late 90s,
early 2000s period in the West Coast. And because there's a whole bunch of stuff then
that's pretty pertinent to now. Yeah, it was all kind of going on. And then I think we
might talk about at some point, probably will fit in because it's been a big topic amongst
us this week is a little bit of like authenticity. And how to address that.
Yeah. How do you address authenticity in these times where everybody's making money off something
being authentic? Well, yeah, people have their own motivations,
their own wants, needs and desires. Yeah, you know, that type of stuff. And so, you know, because
I'm some cherry pie kush talk. Cherry pie might be able to fit into that a little late. I've kind
of avoided the whole cookie thing yet. Yeah, it's probably a couple episodes on its own. And it's
pretty complex. So we probably will chat about that at some point. But that one needs some
fleshing out a bit. Yeah, I would say. Yeah, it's gonna be a deep one.
Yeah, that's a deep one. And there's a lot of people making a lot of money off it. And there's
a lot of rep on it. So the more money and rep you have, it kind of ties into the authenticity
thing we were just talking about. Yep. You start talking history and it interferes with anybody's
money or rep and all of a sudden, they're extremely upset. Yeah, you know. You know,
I mean, I made this I made this like joking post. I don't post much anymore on IG. But I made this
joking post. I saw this cartoon and it was like, I remember it differently. In a way that fits my
worldview and paints me in a positive light. Yeah, that's for sure. And, you know, relating
to weed history, like you run into that a lot. Yeah. You know, you run into that a lot. You know,
so maybe we should, I don't know what are we we're getting up to 150 ish people here.
We like to bullshit for a couple minutes and allow people to show up.
Yeah, you know, yep. And get to a certain point before we start chatting. So here's one,
here's one just what is the best blueberry not so dog? The best blueberry. So this is another
one that when I tell you what I think people will get upset at me. Yeah, yeah. Because, you know,
if you talk to second generation genetics, who is JD, who's DJ son or DJ, they will say the only
legitimate place to get blueberry is them. Yes. Right. Yeah. But the you know, for some reason,
the blue bonnet seems to throw these days, at least some really potent blueberry turps.
And it's not mine. I didn't make it. I don't get to take credit for it. But I did use it.
Just to be transparent. Yes, he did use it. So I had my own blueberry line.
There's actually a tie in.
Well, I have my own blueberry line that I created before, during the time the blue bonnet was being
made. And Lone Star was kind of competition to me at the time. And I was very egotistical about my
blueberry, of course, because everybody thinks they have the best blueberry. And I used it and
it did breed true for blue traits and very beautiful blue turps and very pretty, but it
didn't have much potency, or resin production to speak of. And I think Lone Star did it better than
I did. I really do. So yeah, we're lucky is that it still exists. Yes. And you can still get it
from a number of different sources. Yes.
Ton. So we're getting there. I think we're up to a decent time. So we're going to start.
And these talks have kind of been we've we've been kind of moving forward. We started in the
beginning in the 90s a bit. Now we're starting to move forward. We actually still have like a third
wave of seed banks that Matt and I want to do that we never actually dealt with that involves Canada
and everything else. But it starts to get a little bit more dispersed and difficult to get the
accurate stuff. So it's taken us kind of a while. Yeah, so there's a lot to it. And there's a lot
to cover. You don't want to leave out a lot of stuff. And you don't want to forget a lot of stuff.
And some stuff we do leave out and forget and have to go back and tag because it is. So yeah,
and that's kind of, you know, that's kind of one of the things about these talks is there a bunch
of history. There's some there's some speculation. There's some bullshitting. They're trying to be
conversational and tell people about the memories that people have. They you know, we'll talk about
things but they get people bent under shape already. So rather than talking about like the
third wave of seed banks, I thought we could chat more about like, what was happening on the West
Coast? Yeah, which is where Matt and I both live. What was happening on the West Coast in that era?
And how specifically California and how that kind of like started to impact what came after?
Yeah. Right. So just to let everybody know, in 1996, in November, they passed the 215 Act,
the Proposition 215 in California. And that made it was the first state where you had
medical. Now, you know, medical was very restrictive at first, and it was only about
four or five conditions that it applied to. And the cops had spent their whole career just busting
anyone with weed. So they were also slow to change. Because they saw weed and they were like,
fuck you, it's weed, I'm arresting you. And so people think that it like just became legal
in 1997. It did not. It started a slow process. Right. And the era we're going to talk about is
sort of like the very beginning of when guerrilla started to end and that process started to really
take place. Yeah. You know, there was the very beginning of medical in California. So things
were starting to open up. People were starting to be less secretive. And as we mentioned on shows
before, I think it was 1999 that Overgrowth started. And not that long after the Cannabis
World started. I don't know the years on when they started. So, you know, after a few years,
you had this network of people that were connecting via these, you know, these forums.
Yeah. And chatting and stuff like that. And so
when that ended up happening is, you know, this started a whole wave of different things.
This started, there was, you know, really, the forums were the first time you could really ever
trade outside your circle that you knew in person. Yeah. You know, right?
Yeah. I mean, even today, I still see people, you know, in other states where they say, you know,
I can't get that clone. I live in this state. And it kind of blows my mind because back then,
even like we didn't all live in, like people were getting Bubba clones from Ohio, you know,
that were in California. You know what I mean? Like you didn't necessarily go to the state to
get it. Yeah. And I mean, you know, one of the things that's interesting about that is that,
you know, there's different people. For a lot of people, we have a good buddy of ours that
lives back in the Midwest. And, you know, for him, the forums and IG and Discord and stuff like that
was a way for him to talk to other weed nerds. Yeah. Right. But for somebody like me who lives
in Mendo, like everyone around me does what I do. Yeah. So there's no shortage of hanging out. Like
I'm surrounded by people like me. So there was some people that like were, you know, really
intent upon getting on there. And that was their mode of communication. Yeah. And some of us just
lived in places and stayed off all that. Yeah. You know, so like when you popped up or whatever,
it doesn't really like correlate to like what you're up to. We all lived in the shadows.
Yeah. Right. So tying into that, I'm probably in my, I don't know what it is. I'm probably in my
mid 20s or so. And I meet this guy. I don't think it's weird to say his name. His name was Ron.
Yeah. Right. Yeah. Yeah. And Matt knows Ron. Very well. Very well. Yeah. And Ron was,
Ron's a character and he's still around. And he did this thing where he started throwing these
harvest parties in fall in my area. And he actually threw him, he'd rent like a big ass
fucking house in Sonoma County, Healdsburg, outskirts, areas like that, like a big mansion,
essentially. Yeah. And he had like a catering company. And so this thing would be, you pay
a certain amount of money and this thing would be catered. And then all these heads would come.
Right. Yeah. And so it was the first time for me that I really was around like that kind of scene
because most of those people that were there, like they knew each other from Overgrower Cannabis
World. Yeah. There was like groups that came with people like me and stuff like that, that like were
from that area as well. But there was a lot of people from all over. And if people are wondering
who Ron is, he's NCGA, North Cal Growers Association. A lot of people associate him
with like the Blue Widow Cup. That was one of his big jams. Yeah. And he used to help people get set
up. He's always been pretty politically active. Yeah. He's always been a lot of the fairs and a
lot of various things that went on, you know, with, he'd usually have a booth and he politically
organized early. Yeah. He got me my first Emerald Cup Cannabis booth. That was the first booth I
ever shared in Emerald Cup was with Ron. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I mean, I went to this thing,
I don't know, I was 23, 24, 25, something like that. And I went with my friends. I got invited
by a buddy of mine. And what was neat about it is you go to this place and you walk in,
they have like, you know, huge dining room table or whatever. And everyone that wanted to share,
you would write your name, which was usually like the handle from the forums or whatever.
You would write your name and you would put some weed in the bag or the jar. And so the whole table
is full of different kinds of weed and hash samples. Right. And then it's, you know, and
then it's one of those things where you hang out for two or three days and smoke a ton of weed
and trade seeds with people and trade strains with people and shoot the shit. Yeah. Right. So
I go there and I'm young. And I'm hoping to meet like, I am like so convinced, dude, that I'm gonna
meet these old timers. Yeah. Meaning my age now, but that's at the time, you know, I, oh,
dirty old sog was there. Look at that. Anyway, so I'm all convinced I'm gonna meet all these
people and they're gonna, it's gonna like unlock the key to a bunch of old school strains I want.
Yeah. Right. And I get there enough, there wasn't some of that there, but there was so much like
everything that was super popular in the very early 2000s. Right. It was like, Apollo 11,
Apollo 13, C-99, you know, White Widow hybrids, freaking SSH hybrids. Yeah. He's telling us the
best times I ever had. They were super cool parties. Yeah. It was really cool to see. I mean,
there's a bunch of people there who I won't mention because they don't want to be popular.
But I will tell you that's the first place that I ever met CSI in person. Yeah. That's the first
place that I met Shaw, who some people probably know as 707 Seedbank on IG, who did the, you know,
the chem, the chem dog BX2 and a bunch of work with Cat Piss. Yeah. A lot of people got Bubba Kush
from him. Yeah. You know, he's a, he was a pretty big guy back then. Yeah, he was pretty involved.
Shaw, you know, people like Jason King from the can of Bible, Kyle Cushman, Jack Herrera,
you know, just, you know, a bunch of mountain men from Mendo and Humble, you know, yeah. You know,
and then various types of people like Chip, who now has the Real Dirt podcast, I think. Yeah.
Mendo Gold. Yeah. But he was actually, when at those parties, that was before he started Royal
Gold. He was still working on like Coco Fiber then that was so long ago. Coco Fiber wasn't
even a commercial product available in stores yet. Yeah. He was planning on bringing it to
America. Yeah. He hadn't started Royal Gold, but he was planning on it. Right. Wow. Yeah. And so,
and so a lot of us that was, that was a lot of times where the where we got to put faces to names.
Yeah. You know, like, I didn't even know, Dirty, I would have loved to have hung out and talked to
Dirty Old Saw. I didn't even know. You know, if I met if I know your real name, I don't know it.
So hit me up. But there was a, but there was a bunch of people there. Yeah. And so,
like Chip, for instance, who started Royal Gold, he, he had just come back one of those years,
he had just come back from Switzerland, a tour in Switzerland, right? Because for people that don't
know, Switzerland was like the first place in Europe to really open up to cannabis,
like outdoor and greenhouse style. And so when Amsterdam and Holland got rough,
Shanti and Breeder Steve and a number of different people shifted over to Swiss.
Yeah. Right. And so, Chip had gone out and visited those guys. Right. And so he's got all
these pictures on his computer of like these greenhouses full of Neville's Hayes. Yeah.
Like 10 foot tall plants direct planted in the ground. So it was just, yeah, Vic High,
it was just really neat because it was a lot of, it was a lot of connected people.
It was a lot of people that were active on the forums. It was five or six or seven years.
Before the reversal era. Yeah. So everything was, everything was reg seeds. Yeah.
Everything. There wasn't any, any S one. I don't even think I'd heard the term S one outside of a
book. Yeah. I don't think so. I doubt it. So everything, everything, everything was hybrids,
you know, and people would bring their hash, bring their seeds, bring their own personal
breedings. And it was like a way instead of mailing each other and giving out addresses
and DMS and all that, it was like a super swap meet. Right. And so it was really neat in that
regard because for one thing, Ron had a catering business. So part of the money that everybody
pitched in, he hired his whole team and you, and he made two meals a day for three days.
That's wild. That's cool. Yeah. You got to sit there and roll joints and smoke and shoot the
shit and pull tubes and trade seeds. And then you're fucking starving. Right. And then like
some like tuna on crisps comes by the thing, you know, and you're like, Oh my God, I want some of
that. And you're just so high and you just start eating some of that and drinking. Now you feel a
million times better. And so the reason I bring that up is because while now with a lot of these
events and a lot of these lives and a lot of, a lot of times like putting a face to a name has
become common. But back then it was uncommon. Yeah, very. So it was like really, it was really,
it was really like unusual and neat. You felt special. Yeah. You know, and I mean, there was,
you know, there was times where, I mean, I went, I went there, I think, yeah, the foods were to die
for. They were really good. They were fully catered, full on meals. They'd have snacks and
hors d'oeuvres that would be get brought around, finger food and stuff. It was pretty decadent.
Yeah. You know, and then just like anything else, even if you're an experienced smoker,
you start smoking eight, 10, 15 kinds of weed you don't normally smoke.
Yeah. And it's the first time you're smoking all of them, even a week or moderate weed will
get you pretty baked. Yeah. Eventually if you're just pulling all day, nonstop. Yeah. Yeah. And so,
you know, there was different things where it was like, you can't hang out with everyone.
Yeah. So, you know, you make friends, some friends I made there, you know, I kept up with
really well. Yeah. Others like CSI, I didn't catch up with again for a number of years after those.
Yeah. Because you just, you're in different directions, people, you know, all that different
types of stuff. And, you know, Eddie just, it was kind of just like a who's who. Yeah. And a lot of,
a lot of the times those people fletch, people that weren't very well known then.
Yeah. But now they're all hella well known. Yeah. You know, and they have some of the best
seed banks, you know, some of the best breeders around, some of the best collections of weed
around. Yeah. You know, when I went there, I didn't have most of the stuff that I have now,
but I had, I had the Maui and I had the Chem 91 and the Super Skunk and I had the Super Dog.
Yeah. My, my buddy who doesn't like to be mentioned, you know, from Staten Island,
he came a couple of years with us, you know, because we were still like right in the middle
of doing that Super Dog project. So, yeah, we had different phenos, we had the Super Skunk,
we had different things, we had hash that we had sifted from things and all that. So,
it was just a really neat gathering and time period. Yeah. People keep asking like what
happened, but I think, I think we did a good job of recreating a little bit of that just a few
years ago. A lot of people weren't invited, you know, because it was smaller, but I think,
I think that there's still an ability for our community to pull together like that
and have these big events where people just get along, chill and smoke weed.
Yeah. So, it was a privilege because I wasn't around for the Ron parties at all, but it was
a privilege to be a part of the Cannelluminati parties. Those are, it was fucking insane to
be a fly on the wall at those events. Yeah. I mean, they keep, they do keep happening.
But I will say that like, they probably won't happen like that quite again.
No. Just for the simple fact that shit changes.
Yeah. You know, nobody knew who CSI was then. Nobody knew who Fletcher was then. Nobody knew
who I was that, you know, I mean, there was people that were known, you know, but a lot of them were,
we were all in our 20s or whatever, just trying to figure out, you know, various aspects of life.
Yeah. You know, and we were all learning and trading from each other and seeing what was up.
And it was, you know, it was just days of, and there also wasn't a bunch of money or rep involved.
Yeah. It was kind of like the last era before that era started.
Yeah, it was. So we were all young,
innocent and dumb and you know, and all that kind of stuff.
Less of a competitive nature, maybe. Yeah. We were all, I mean, honestly,
I came home with so many seeds from that event and I gave away, you know, thousands of seeds.
Yeah. For free.
Yeah. We just traded.
Yeah. Oh, you've got some sweet tooth by Blockhead from Steve, you know?
Oh, give me a hundred of those and I'll give you a hundred of this and this and this and this. Okay,
cool. You know, and it was like, try it out. Yeah.
It hadn't been monetized yet. No one really believed that you could make a bunch of money
in America selling seeds. Yeah, I bet. Especially that era.
It wasn't, it just didn't exist yet. So it was like all these heads each with their,
everybody was happy to like, if you could get people you respected to grow your beans.
Oh yeah. That was everything.
Fuck man, that was like, you know, and then they hit you up and they were like,
dude, I found fire in your weed. Yeah.
Now you're like rocking around and you feel all good about yourself.
Fire in my weed, you know? Yeah.
Good job. And you know, and yeah, in the forum era, Caleb was white trash, redneck or inspector.
Now he's CSI. Yeah.
Who's Turpogs? I've never heard of her. Oh my gosh.
So we're gonna bounce around because all those different things sort of interact. So just to
kind of like put a, you know, Ron's parties were where a lot of us made friendships with each other.
Where a lot of us met for the first time, it brought together different disparate groups of
weed heads from their twenties through their forties, you know, fifties.
It went on for a number of years. It, you know, it happened in the, in the, in the falls.
There was a lot of fire outdoor. And I should also mention, because this is pretty important
to that era where this is before the Urkel and the, and the purple craze really took off.
Yeah. And so that's really important
because all good weed still got grown and was sold.
Yeah. There really hadn't been waves where it was
like, get this one cut. Yeah.
And this cut, you can sell all of that. That hadn't really happened yet.
Now I attribute a lot of that to fucking Jason King too, for hyping cups up so fucking hard that
era. I mean, you know, it's, it's, it's hard.
I don't necessarily attribute it to him. I attribute it to the brokers.
Sure. Because I can't, I can't talk about other areas, but like in Mendo, let's say in 04, 05,
if you wanted to have a 50 lighter and you wanted to sell every gram of your weed you grew.
Yeah. And you had granddaddy purple or Urkel
or something along those Mendo perps, it all went.
Yeah. If you had sweet tooth by Louie,
maybe not. Yeah.
I mean, you probably could, I'm not saying you couldn't, but there wasn't buyers shooting up
from the bay. Like, I got, I got room for X amount, find it.
Yeah. Give me that sweet tooth.
Yeah. You know, I mean, but, you know,
cause all that, all that work, I should say that like, so, and we'll talk about that at some of
these things, but what were the, all the popular things you can think of were at that party, both
as flower and hybrids and seeds. So the white family was crossed into everything. DJ shorts,
the blueberry family was crossed into tons of stuff. Brothers Grimm was crossed into a different
amount of stuff. Yeah.
You know, and then, you know, a bunch of classics and things like that, that were still around.
Big High was still doing big stuff. Federation was still doing big at that time.
People, I can answer that question. Someone just said, where's Jason King? He's on Maui.
We'll talk about that in a minute because that was actually, well, that'll overlap, but
it really was, it really was like, you know, you hear about the legendary harvest festivals
that happened in Humboldt or Mendo, small little gatherings and stuff. That's really what it felt
like to me. Yeah. It felt like being able to go to one of those types of things. And back then
you really just talk shop and weed with your close group of hermit friends.
Yeah. So getting to, getting to go to like,
and hang out with dozens of different people for three or four days and chat and chat it up,
really set the foundations and a lot of the, a lot of the friendships and stuff for later.
Yeah. It really made a big difference. I think,
you know, friendships were forged there. Transfers were made there, but you know, ideas of things.
Yeah. For a lot, for a large part of it. And I think like when you started coming in heavy,
like it was all a bunch of that stuff. Yes. Yeah. It was still very much around.
Like when I first started coming in heavy, I was looking for the blue widow clone. I was looking for
the sweet thing clone. I was looking for all that shit. Yeah. You're looking for all that. And that
was like, that was everywhere. I mean, that was like what everybody had in clones, what they had
in flower and hash and seeds and all this different types of stuff. Yeah. You know, Kyle was there
documenting it for high times. Although I don't think Ron let him actually made an article about
it. Yeah. Cause he wanted to keep it like on the down low and not fuck it up, you know? Yeah,
for sure. But, but, you know, it was interesting. And the reason why we're going to kind of bounce
around to all this different types of stuff is that all overlaps. Yeah. Right. So somebody asked
about Jason King. It's probably a good time to chat about that a little bit. Sure. So at that time,
there was this guy's name's Jason King, and he had this idea that I'm going to take a bunch of
pictures of famous strains and then I'm going to write my own super opinionated blurb about each
one of these things. Yeah. And he called it the Cannibible. And I don't think anybody knew what
he was doing at the time would be, would matter. But what he did, which is super cool, is he came
out with about three Cannibibles. Yeah. And they sort of document this whole like late nineties
through early to mid 2000s era, right before the Clone Wars, where all these specific clones of
Kush, Urkel, Saur, all that started just dominating. And a lot of these random hybrids
started to becoming hard to find. Yeah. Right. So he came out with this Cannibible. And I remember
getting it. And one of the coolest things about the first Cannibible was that the entire first
introduction is written by one of my weed heroes, Rob Clark. Yes. Right. And Rob did,
Rob did this thing where he wrote this big introduction into the Cannibible, which honestly,
I'm not sure anyone could have done that and given as much legitimacy to Jason King
as Ron Clark writing a big, long seed history and clone history introduction.
Yeah. Because like I've said before, Ron wrote the Bible for seed breeding. Rob, sorry, Rob,
Rob Ron. Rob Clark wrote the Bible for seed breeding, marijuana botany. He wrote Hashish.
He's legendary. He's an encyclopedic knowledge. He's definitely like one of the elders of the
whole marijuana thing. Yeah. You know, he's made lasting contributions to cannabis. And so
him writing that and what he did is he outlined which strains, which was a huge debate even back
then. Yeah. Which strains went to Amsterdam as clone onlys and which strains went to Amsterdam
as seed lines. Yeah. And a timeline of who gave what that was kind of brief, but who gave what
over there. Yeah. And then a timeline of like all these different seed companies and what years they
release different versions of things. Yeah. That was one of my favorite. They his chart on the
release of seed companies. It was the first time I'd heard of like lowland seeds and all that shit.
Early Pearl, the Pearl stuff is him. Someone's asking that. Yeah. Pearl is all the Pearl stuff
is related to Rob. And so so for a lot of us that you're trying to piece together all this shit.
Here's a guy in the know that knows all these various seed companies and breeders and work and
all that. And, you know, he he outlines this thing. Yeah. OK, so, you know, so he so he comes
out with this thing. He writes this big, long thing, which is amazing. It's my favorite part
of the book. No offense to the rest of the book. Yeah. And then the rest of the book is a bunch of
Jason's opinionated comments on different pictures of weed he's taken and what he thinks about.
Yeah. From all over. Right. So I get this thing and I'm super nerded out by it. I love it.
OK. Well, flash a little bit. And there was this gentleman who just passed away not that long ago,
but his name was Eddie Lep. Yeah. OK. And Eddie Lep had a farm in Upper Lake, which is about
20 minutes from my house. And he grew a bunch of weed there. Yeah. OK. And he really blew it up.
He's he's one of the he's one of the best. He was one of the early biggest flaunters of 215.
Yeah. Like I'm going to follow the law. Come get me. And so a lot of people that a lot of people
met there. Yeah. Right. And so I met Jason King both there and I should should say at some of
those early Ron parties. OK. Yeah. And we became good friends. Right. Yeah. Through, you know,
through those connections, through hanging out at Ron's parties and then through, you know,
he was he was a photographer and trying to document weed. And everybody back then was
fascinated that Eddie Lep was willing to fill a field full of cannabis and be like, come get me.
Yeah. Yeah. You know. And so, you know, and and and so I decided to help Jason with this
with this project. Yeah. He wanted to make a second Cannabinoid. Yeah. Right. And I'd lived
in Mendo at that point a number of years. And Matt, as you're well aware,
weed was weed world was still insulated. Yes. Very much. You're not going to get a bunch of
pictures and you're not going to meet all the right people without an end. Yeah. Yeah. It's
still kind of that way for the old school guys, though. You know what I mean? Like, but nothing
like hard to talk to, but nothing like it was before you couldn't even find how to contact an
old guy. At least now they have like maybe an I.G. page or some some way you can track them down.
That's true. When I first got into this, I remember I tried tracking down DJ Short to speak
to him, you know, no dice. You had to find where he was going to be speaking and see him in person
if you wanted to get a hold of him at that time. So we'll we'll bounce we'll bounce around just so
everybody knows I'm going to talk about Eddie and that and that whole era, because that's pretty
cool. But so these things will all overlap because they're all going on basically at the exact same
time. Yeah. Ron's parties, Eddie's scene at an Upper Lake, the stuff that I haven't talked to,
Cannabible, all this stuff is all like happening and is part of the same flow, same few years,
right? So I become friends with Jason and I decide to help him with this project. Yeah. Right. Get
him introductions to people, let him meet other people that can help him kind of navigate through
Humboldt and Mendo and document and all that type of stuff. So as a result of all that,
you know, and I should say this is that I was pretty good friends with Jason back then. I haven't,
we've drifted apart. He's lived on Maui now for a long time. And I don't go to Hawaii or haven't
since I had kids. So we've kind of drifted apart. We're still on good terms. He's a super opinionated
guy and he used to drive some people nuts. Very true. Very true. Like there are people that will
be like, that guy drives me fucking nuts. I always got along well with him. Yeah. Right. And
on top of that, I was very sympathetic to what he was trying to do. Yeah. Just another weed nerd
trying to fucking put the pieces together. Yeah. I strongly disagreed with him about certain things.
Oh, yeah. And all that, you know, and we would battle about, you know, all kinds of shit,
you know. But that's not, that's not any different than today with people.
Yeah. But he was documenting and there's a lot of things in there, you know, like you talk about
like the bull ride. There's a lot of stuff. Yeah. That fell off the wayside that's documented.
Yeah. You know? And so I started helping him figure out this different stuff. Right. And,
you know, and me and Eddie and some other different folks started helping him put together
the Cannibal. Yeah. Right. And by helping, I just mean making introductions and, you know,
can this dude with a camera come to your scene? Yeah. Because that's kind of crazy, right? You
got to have some trust. Yeah. Can I bring a dude with a fucking camera? Yeah. To your scene? Yeah.
You know? And just so people get an idea, this is pretty funny. I remember Jason got a 12 megapixel
camera. Yeah. With a super nice lens on it to start taking pictures because the first Cannibal
was all film. Right? Yeah. That 12 megapixel camera with a super nice lens was over $11,000.
Oh my God. I'm dead serious, dude. Over $11,000. Because I was at his house. He actually rented
this house from Eddie Lep that was in Lake County. Not at Eddie Lep's property, but a separate home.
Yeah. Like I said, I lived 20 minutes from there. So we were together all the time.
And, you know, like I said before about Ron's parties, at the time I was growing the Super
Skunk, the Chem Dog 91, Mendo Perps, the Black Domino, the Snow, the Trinity, a bunch of the
Super Dog crosses and hybrids, all that type of stuff. And so, you know, I start helping them
get all this stuff photographed and documented. And, you know, and it was pretty neat in that
regard. Because, you know, there's a lot of stuff that was like, that's been lost.
Yeah. But there's a ton that's in those books. But there's video, but there's picture evidence,
and there's various aspects, right? And, you know, so if people are interested,
because of that close relationship, I had a bunch of stuff that ended up in that book.
I grew the dog, I was in this process then, of growing a bunch of my favorite strains,
completely organic, and then full salt. And then in the same room at the same time,
right next to each other, and then doing a bunch of blind taste tests with me and my friends and
trying to actually see, which is better. Right? So, the Chem 91 is in there as both dog and Chem
Dog, grown both ways. My Mendo Perps is in there, the Snow, the Trinity, my Super Dog 7 cut that I
lost is in there, which is a hybrid between myself and the guy from Staten Island made this line.
It's basically a super skunk Chem Dog line. The Purple Effects, which is Mendo Perps crossed with
FX, which is a cool story. Actually, somebody said Coral Reef, that's not mine. But our buddy
Fletch has been hunting for that for a super long fucking time. So if anybody knows where the Coral
Reef is, hit us up. But anyway, like,
that Super Dog thing is the odd connection that me and you have, where I spent years and years and
years trying to figure out who made the fucking Super Dog by asking around the whole Chem fam,
all that shit. And at one point, I couldn't get any fucking answers. Like half the people would
say, yes, it's Gisle. It's the same thing. It's just another name. We made it. Yeah. It didn't
turn out to be that way. But I remember before we met, I remember in 2010, I made a Super Dog
2010 trying to recreate what I had read about in the Cannibal Bible because I could never fucking
find it. And many, many years later, when we finally interacted, I realized you were the source
of the Super Dog. And that was really interesting because it was such a big long chase for me
because of that book. I remember I mean, I don't really want to tell the story of how I lost it all.
But I remember like, I mean, I had it at all those Ron parties. I passed it out freely to a
bunch of people. I gave a bunch of Super Dog hybrids to Mandelbrot and it ended up being a
lot of the basis of a lot of his mails that he started using to get started because even back
then, everyone had to use pollen. Yeah. Not that everybody doesn't use pollen today, but everybody
had to use like mails. Yeah. Like full regular mails. Reversals were six, seven, eight years away.
Yeah. Then, so I didn't even, we didn't even know it was. The only reversals anyone never heard of
is accidental herms. Yeah. That was reversals. And sometimes if people wanted to make accidental
herms, they would torture their plant. Rotalization.
They would make it dry out. They would make it almost die. They would fuck with its life cycle.
They would just torture it and see, can I get it to pop a bunch of pollen? Right? Yeah. So anyway,
technique. Yeah. Like I don't have, like I lost the Super Dog. I lost the purple effects, but
there's write-ups in that book of it. Right. Which is pretty neat because then there's,
there's at least pictures of it. Yeah. That's how it got documented and why we still know about it.
Yeah. And I should tell, I should tell a funny story just because. So
Jason had this girlfriend named Rebecca back then. And he, she was from North Carolina and
they had this strain that is semi-known right now called the Mothership. Yeah. And it was this old
ass weird sativa. And Jason just raved and raved and raved about it. And so he got his girlfriend's
friends to mail it to him in Lake County. Yeah. Right. So you're thinking today, you know, with
all the mailing tech that people have, you're thinking some like small innocuous package or
whatever. Yeah. So this, this fucking thing shows up and it's a box that's about a foot, a foot
wide and a foot, you know, this and two feet deep. Right. Yeah. It's this big fucking box,
you know, and we open it up and inside are two motherships with a bunch of,
with a bunch of stuffing around them in one gallon pots tied to stakes. And they're like,
they're like 18 to 24 inches tall. Yeah. So instead of the person mailing us cuts,
they mailed us like one gallon pots of dirt and 18 to 24 inch tall plants in the box. That's all
there was. You open the box and it's like two plants in there. Yeah, that's wild. But it was
so unusual. I think, I don't think the post office was hip yet to like weed and like, especially
plants in the mail, sending big ass plants in the mail. No, probably. Yeah. And there's actually in
that can of Bible, there's some there's some pictures of that mothership. Cause I was one
of the first people that grew it because I actually had running grow rooms and there's
pictures of the mothership at Eddie Leps property. There's pictures of the mothership for my
greenhouses and stuff. It was a really unusual plant, but, but yeah, it got mailed to us in the
most sketch way imaginable. I remember in Canada Bible, if I think it was the mothership that at
one point Jason King was trying to say, this has to be related to HP 13. Cause I've never tasted
anything like this. That was one of those extreme speculations that he was a, no, yeah. I mean,
I sh I should say, I mean, he's my friend and everything like that, but you read the descriptions
of like the dog and the chem dog and different things. And I even wrote down like lineage and
history for him. And then when he went to do his artistic interpretation of what he wanted to write,
you read it and you're like, Oh, that's fucked. Yeah. Oh, well, but that happens all the time.
People talk about all this journalist quoted me incorrectly or took my out of context or whatever
else. So, but at least that's a documentation and it was there. Yeah. You know? And what,
so one thing I'll say, and then we'll move on and we'll talk a little bit about Eddie's situation,
right? Is that, so we did, I'm going to lose my train of thought, but Jason decided to do a Canada
Bible release party for the second Canada Bible. And he decided to invite everyone that contributed
to the book with pictures, right? And everyone that helped him put together and a who's who.
And they, and he rented out this very, this very magical place, which I don't know if most people
have heard of. There's this place called Ore Springs in Mendocino County and it's a natural
hot springs. And you know, so it's got all these like cabins in the woods and stuff and all this
beautiful Redwood and it's right next to the Montgomery, huh? No, I said yes. And it's right
next to Montgomery woods, which has some of the tallest trees in the world, right? I think three
out of the five tallest Redwoods are all in Mendocino County, right next to this, this hot
springs. Yeah. So it's pretty magical place, right? So he does this thing where he throws this three
day Canada Bible release party. Right. And we all get to come and we all have our little rented
cabins and whatnot. And it's the same thing like one of Ron's parties, essentially. It's a bunch of
seed swapping and trading and all this different stuff. And Eddie Lep's there and Rob Clark's there
and, you know, Caleb and Sean, like all, just all the people I already mentioned. A lot of the same
people are there. And a lot of people that contributed to the book, Eddie Lep, his whole
entourage and all these folks, right? So I got to meet one of my heroes at the time.
Who's that?
I got to meet DJ Short.
Fucking A, that's one of mine that I got to meet too. What a coincidence.
Yeah. So, and that was kind of intense because, you know, as we've mentioned on previous podcasts,
you know, if you're a weed nerd on the forums, you've got all the, this is way pre-Cookie too,
right? You've got all these like, you know, test grows and stuff on the forums of all these
beautiful blue families, hybrids and blue work. And you're like, holy fuck. So, you know, I'm in
my mid twenties or whatever, and DJ's significantly older. And so you feel like you're meeting an
elder. And you're just starting to fuck around, you know, my buddy from Staten Island and myself,
we've been breeding for a number of years at that point with our super dog and different things.
But we finally felt like we were just getting started. And here's this guy that's like,
was released in Europe in the nineties. Worked with Sag Martha, worked with Dutch Passion,
had Canadian stuff, had this whole movie. And everybody back then was kind of on his jock.
Yeah.
Wouldn't you say?
Yeah, yeah. Everybody.
I mean, he was kind of a famous guy then, you know, he was internet famous.
Him, Hempy, Vic High, you know, there was some really like famous internet personalities on
those early forums.
Yeah, there was.
And DJ's work was one of them. He stood out.
Yes, he did.
And he was one of the first American breeders, since the breeders who first brought their stuff
over to Amsterdam, like Sam and Rob and all those guys. He was like the next wave of people that got
famous. And there wasn't that much competition either. Yeah, people say Hempy, Hempy was a
fucking, Hempy had a lot of good points, but man, was he a tough character.
He was a dickhead.
I don't like that little booger.
He was, he was, if you said something, I mean, a lot of those guys like Tom Hill and stuff,
if you said something ignorant, they just tear your fucking head off.
Yeah, Hempy can't even be put in that same category. He made, he's thick as an idiot.
I mean, you know.
I had to deal with him too much.
So anyway, I, you know, DJ's at this, at this Can of Bible release party, right? And he shows up
at the time, I'm all excited, but to him, it was probably like, there was a bunch, I was a
custody, right? So he shows up and he's got little manila envelopes, you know, with just, you know,
50 and a hundred of all his lines. Which I think back then was only four or five.
Yeah, it was only a few lines at a time that he would ever sell. They were just super expensive
for the time too.
Yeah, he had Blueberry and he had Flow and Blue Velvet.
Yeah.
And maybe the Moonshine.
Yeah, Blue Moonshine or Old Time Moonshine, one of them.
Yeah, it was Blue Moonshine, Blueberry, Flow and Blue Velvet.
Yeah.
Those four. And so CSI and I get to talking to him, you know.
And I have to say, and he's still around and stuff and all that. So he's going to be kind
of irritated at me, but it was my first experience with realizing that a lot of these old time
breeders don't know that much.
Yeah.
I mean, I thought, here I am, this guy's been doing it 15, 20 years longer than me.
Yeah.
You know, he's made all these amazing strains. Everybody's getting all these amazing hybrids
out of them and he's releasing all these inbred lines and who doesn't like the word Juicy Fruit
Tie or Purple Tie or this or that. So you're all fucking pumped.
And then you start talking to him and he's vague as fuck.
Yeah, it was, yeah.
Like super vague.
Yeah, I think that is one thing that I have found with people whose opinion I respect.
Everybody that has met DJ Short, including me, has had the same experience, except that he,
with me, he just told me I don't own my own company.
That was-
No, you know, I'm not going to say that. He was open and he talked for a long time. We talked
for hours over multiple days.
Yeah, he's-
Shooting the shit, fucking it together. He was super jovial and conversational and all that.
He wasn't like we were talking about Hempy. He wasn't a dick.
Yeah, yeah.
But I kind of feel like being a weed nerd myself and talking to tons of breeders,
if there's one thing you can do, you can talk in detail about your own shit.
Yeah, you should be able to.
Because it's your shit and it's like you're fucking a weed nerd and you're fucking into it.
And it's your passion.
And you can just do that shit off of memory.
And he just kept saying stuff, oh, I'd have to go back and look at my notes.
I'd have to check my notes.
And I'd ask him, did you ever back cross or did you ever use any of your original genetics again?
Yeah.
And he was like, no.
He's like, at the time, he was like, I still have thousands of seeds,
but they're so old and I haven't stored them well. I don't know if they pop.
Yeah.
Right. And so I just remember, like walking away from there and just being like,
I just thought I was going to get a wealth of information.
Yeah.
And in the hours and hours that I talked to him, I don't even know if I got too many tidbits.
Yeah, no.
You know, and then if you read his book, now it's going to sound like I'm dissing him.
It is a very, very rudimentary way of growing inside.
It is. Yeah, definitely.
Now, the one thing I will say that I think is super cool about his book is he does describe
a bunch of weed that he smoked when he was younger.
That's my favorite part of the book.
And then he also does this thing where he has this, I mean, we didn't,
no one used the word terpenes back then, but he tried to make like an olfactory chart.
Yeah.
Like a smells chart and break down what smells are related to what.
Yeah, it was a really good chart.
And it was a fantastic chart.
I highly recommend it still because anything that trains you to speak about things in language
is helpful.
Yeah. Yeah.
So, I mean, he was talking about like squirrel cage fans and, you know, I mean, that's kind of
like, you know, he kind of grew in trailers in Oregon and used very 80s tech and never really
advanced, right?
But be that as it may, despite being very disappointed by talking to him about things,
I still bought like 400, 450 of his seats.
Yeah.
Every line he had, the velvet, the moonshine, the blueberry, the flow, I bought, you know,
I don't know, 75 to 150 of them.
Yeah.
Right.
And I went home and I grew them all out.
Yeah.
I think the name of the book is like cultivating exceptional cannabis or something like that.
Yeah, that's it.
Yeah.
Right off the top of my head, something like that.
It's got a really pretty flow plant or something on the cover.
Yeah.
Extremely purple.
I think it's a flow, but some other people have said it's a blue satellite too.
Like there's some discrepancies on that as well.
Well, one of the things, I mean, when you interviewed Chimera and Red,
Yeah.
You know, you know, one of the things that Chimera is good friends with DJ,
so he's not going to say anything rude.
But what he did say is he kind of basically admitted that he thought that everything that
he had was like the same line.
Yeah.
And it was just different express like DJ would see an expression within the line and he would
be like, oh, this is its own thing.
It's blue velvet.
Yeah.
And if I just breed stuff with expressions like that, it's its own thing.
But that's not really what was going on either because he was crossing opposite to opposite
when he was doing line breeding, working directional, which is what you don't do.
It was very artistic take on breeding for the time.
And in fairness, like we said before, they were writing the book as they were going,
you know, like these were guys just getting into can of breeding.
There was no books to be had, you know, at the time when DJ was doing this.
So mad props to him for fucking doing what he did.
I was able to work at the bunch of his work that I'm stoked on.
I'm not as stoked on his human work as far as human breeding.
But other than that, you know, like as far as cannabis breeding, I owe a big debt of
gratitude to him.
I mean, I'm not but I just you know, it's one of those like he that's the conundrum,
right?
Is that you see all this amazing stuff, you see how it all works, you get it yourself.
And I grew up.
Imagine people listening.
I grew out 450 seeds over the next year.
Yeah.
And you know, I'd like to say I found a few keepers that I miss.
Yeah, I didn't.
Yeah, I did.
I it was unbelievably beautiful.
A lot of it, especially pre cookie, there was lavenders, there was blues, there was
pink, there was purple, there was various shades of in between.
It didn't have a lot of turps.
And it didn't have a very potent high.
Most of it.
Yeah, yeah, for sure.
But when I outgrossed it to different things, I got way better weed.
Yeah, than anything of the pure lines I got from him.
So you can imagine how fucking excited I am, right?
Because now there's no seed bank.
There's no middleman.
It's like I'm getting handwritten manila envelopes from the guy.
Yeah, the real deal Holyfield.
Oh, my God, am I gonna find the fire?
Yeah, here it comes.
Right?
Labeling backing everything up.
I mean, you know how it goes when you're running hundreds of things and you want to keep track of
it.
What the fuck?
Yep.
You know, it's a huge pain in the ass.
Yeah, I just recently did that.
I mean, people are talking about, you know, popping 450 seeds in the in the chat not finding
anything.
I just recently popped almost the same amount of stuff from from blue lines and went through
all of it and had a very similar experience.
Now I will say something because there is some there is like a an economic aspect that
we don't talk about right where back then, you know, most fire indoor was, you know,
four to 4500.
Yeah, a pea.
Yeah, though.
It was really easy to grow flower and have a side room or two with a couple of lights
in each for experimentation.
Yeah.
You know, the the rate, you know, a 12 lighter could was was everything you need in life
if you want.
Yeah.
So the economics were really easy to allow people to experiment and fuck around.
Yeah.
Now things are super tight and it's gotten quite hard and mathematics and economics are
much more difficult right in this particular period of time.
Yeah.
But back then, you know, it was like that's what kept the cropping from being boring.
I got a question for you.
This is a good question.
This is from the chat, but it's a good question and relevant.
Where did that Swami guy come from?
Was he around when you were hanging out?
So I know.
No, no, no, no, no.
That's why I didn't see Swami.
I did not.
I did.
I did not.
I mean, he's pretty recognizable character.
Yeah.
You know, yeah, you wouldn't have even if you didn't become friends with them or whatever,
like you wouldn't have mistaken him.
No, I don't think so.
And, you know, we'll get to that.
I don't want to break it up, but we'll get to that when we talk about the authenticity
part in a little bit here.
Yeah, sure.
As far as that goes, because there's a bunch of people that one of the things about cannabis,
I'll talk about super briefly, is that you can just sort of step out of the shadows.
Yeah.
And then people are like, I don't believe where this person came from.
If I'm who I am, I would have known it.
Yeah.
You know?
Um, so, you know, it's, it's one of those things where, uh, there's a lot of shady characters in
cannabis and there's a lot of, and there's a lot of people who make good and bad opinions
about people on the internet that you have never met and you don't hang out with in real life.
Yeah.
You know, Matt and I are friends in real life.
Yes.
You know, like we're real life friends.
Made real love to each other.
You know, platonically from a distance, you know, all that.
But you know, it's different and you have a bunch of people who become fanboys or girls
of different people and attack whoever they want to and stuff like that, you know, and it becomes
difficult because they don't know their enemy and they don't know their friend.
Yes.
Either.
They know like a social media construct of that person.
Sure.
Which is not the same thing.
No.
So, but we'll get to that in a bit.
So scrolling back, you've got Ron's parties, right?
Yeah.
Being sort of a nexus for this thing.
You've got the Cannabible parties, which were another nexus bringing people together, you know?
Yeah.
But I was, I have to say I was super disappointed because I really feel like, you know, if you take
home 450 seeds from four different lines from a breeder and you don't find anything you really
think or want to keep, you know?
Yeah.
That's super disappointing.
Yeah, it is disappointing.
That's a lot of money.
It's a lot of money.
I mean, he gave me a good deal.
Don't get me wrong.
It's not like I paid full custody because I'm at the, but he liked to make money too.
But yeah, but the size of the room, the amount of just everything that goes into the economics
are growing.
It's a lot of money.
It's a lot of time.
And you know, like I talked before, it was like, you know, there's eight or 10 American elites
of NL5 Hayes.
Yeah.
I ran 60, 70 NL5 Hayes and didn't find any of those keepers.
Yeah.
But other people did.
Yeah.
You know?
So DJ was a disappointment just in the sense that he comes from like a different generation
of weed nerd, I think.
Yeah.
Where they're just not that deep into detail.
Yeah.
You know, I mean, one thing you can say about Rob Clark or Sam Skunkman, it's whether or
not you want to believe a bunch of what they say or not, they're heavy on detail.
Yeah.
A lot of the old guys you talk to, you know, they're light on detail.
Yeah.
They don't remember or they try to make it up.
They did it.
Yeah.
But they just don't like, it's even the same thing with like the sour stories or a lot
of the stuff that happened in the 90s that we try to get to the bottom of.
Yeah.
They didn't know it was going to be important.
I'm pretty sure DJ thought he was always going to be important based on having met him.
I'm pretty sure he always believed he was going to be important.
Yeah.
I mean, like I said, over that weekend, I probably talked to him for five, six hours, seven hours.
Yeah.
We were there for three days.
All we were doing was like literally smoking weed and hanging out and shooting the shit
and eating food.
Dude, I would have loved to have had that opportunity with him.
I just, it just seems so not interested in discussing anything with me.
And it was hard because I did look up to him so much.
And it's not that I lost respect for him, but it's just like, the more I learned about
breeding hands on, the more I learned about why his lines turned out the way they did
and why I was having such a hard time working those lines, you know, it all made sense in
the end.
Yeah.
I mean, you know, I'm not dissing him because like you're fucking around in the 70s or 80s
or even in the 90s or whatever.
It's like you learn as you go, you know, you bottleneck something when it's early on and
that's what you got.
Yeah.
I'm not dissing him by any means because there's a lot, like I said, there's, I think his lines
are overly inbred.
Yeah, definitely overly inbred.
But some of the most fire weed at those Ron parties was outcrosses of blue, of blue work.
Yeah.
So there's nothing wrong with having an inbred kind of unique to the cannabis scene line.
And it takes some outcrossing to really bring out its true character.
No, that's kind of what breeders would want.
Something very stable and worked.
I don't think that's a diss necessarily.
Now, of course, do I wish that DJ would have repopulated his juicy tie and his purple tie
and his original lines every four or five years and kept fresh seed of the original things?
Yeah.
Sure.
Of course I do.
Do I wish he was interested in them and didn't just let them go to shit even though he had
them?
Yeah.
But yeah, I do.
But you know, I mean, everybody looks back on when they were younger and was like, boy,
do I wish I did this?
Yeah.
Who doesn't have those regrets about their 20s?
Yeah.
You know, I don't even remember what happened in my 20s.
Right?
So shit's fucked up, you know?
And so that's happening.
All these Cannabible things are happening.
They're all getting documented in that regard.
And Eddie Leps was another place that was kind of like Ron's parties or the Cannabible
parties where people overlapped a bunch.
Yeah.
Because people wanted to come out and see this guy is growing a thousand pounds in his
front yard.
Yeah.
Holy shit.
Yeah.
He's a wild one.
Now, now it's like it sucks because, you know, what happened to him is he ended up going
to jail for 10.
Him and his wife ended up going to jail for 10 years.
Yeah.
And you see gardens way bigger than his all over the place now.
Yeah.
And he didn't, people should know this.
He didn't just go for it.
Okay.
He did this crazy thing.
This is probably worth mentioning where the law said you were allowed to have six
plants and a 10 by 10.
Yeah.
So he mapped out his farm in 10 by 10 grids and he collected, right.
You know, he collected medical cards for each grid.
Yeah.
And each medical card was tied to a specific grid.
Yeah.
And you could give him your strains to grow in that grid.
And he would do a certain amount of work, like feed it and water it and this and that.
But like you could come out there and do your own de-leafing and your own various aspect of
different things like that.
You could put in more work.
Yeah.
If you wanted to and really make your 10 by 10 nice.
And then there was, I don't need to get into that part of it, but there was a split between
him and you.
Yeah.
You know, so honestly, it's like, he didn't just like blow it up and go for it.
He literally had 10 by 10 plots with six plants per plot.
Yeah.
Tied to a medical card and he would just stack hundreds of them.
Yeah, he was just challenging the government to challenge their own, like little gray areas
of the law is what he was doing.
Pretty punk rock, I might say.
Yeah, super punk rock, super rebellious.
And he wanted to have Eddie Lepp gardens all up and down the fucking the highway.
Yeah.
He literally felt like most people wouldn't be able to grow their own.
But why couldn't you come bring your medical card to Eddie Lepp's collective?
Yeah.
And grow your own fairly near your house where you could go tend to your plants on the weekend.
Yeah.
You know, and what happened to him was he had this huge plot in his front yard.
I'm not going to dig them out.
I got some posters from him and a bunch of pictures and stuff, but it's too hard to show
like on the thing.
But anyway, he, and then the last year he had, he decided to get seven acres across
Highway 20 from his house in Upper Lake.
And he was going to grow about 13 acres of cannabis.
Yeah.
Dead serious.
32,000 plants.
Yeah, that's a lot for the time.
Yeah.
32,000 plants, all documented.
Right?
All with, and I begged him not to.
Yeah.
Because I was like, dude, I don't think the DEA, I don't think they'll let you get away
with it.
Like I'm worried, like they'll come down and they'll bring the hammer down, you know?
Yeah, some photos of that are in the Cannibal Bible.
100%.
There's a whole thing on Eddie in the Cannibal Bible, actually.
Yeah.
You know, and there's definitely pictures throughout the Cannibal Bibles that are from
Eddie's spot.
You probably won't recognize them if you hadn't been there, but anyway.
So I begged him not to do it.
Some other friends begged him not to do it, but there was other people that thought he'd
be fine and they were really pushing their boundaries.
Yeah.
They were pushing it hard.
And you know, he got raided by the DEA.
It cost him a lot.
With 32,000 plants, you know, and he, him and his wife got 10 year sentences.
Yeah.
10 year federal sentences.
And the shitty thing about federal sentences is that you have to serve 85% of the time.
It's not like the state where you can get off halfway for good behavior.
Yeah.
And he was a Vietnam vet and him and his wife were older.
His wife passed away in prison, sadly.
Yeah.
And then he got out and, you know, the world had changed.
He went from being this like rebel, maverick kind of center of attention, which to be honest,
he was kind of egotistical and he had, you know, he tried to form a cannabis church and.
Yeah.
You know, he was fucking, that's, you know, a lot of characters, right?
So, but he got out and the world had changed.
Now there's all these motherfuckers doing gardens his size.
Yeah.
And it's all fine.
And, you know, he gave up, you know, he gave up a lot for that.
Yeah.
And he got hammered pretty fucking hard.
And there's people there, there's people that, I mean, I'll mention a few people, I guess,
you know, one of the Skittles crew that like that spun off into Dying Breed and now is his
own person, Shiloh, probably a bunch of people know.
I was like the second person in Mendo that Shiloh met.
Yeah.
Him and Dallas, who's got another, you know, who he works with now,
they both were working at Eddie's.
Yeah.
There was a bunch of people that became kind of well known later,
that were kind of Eddie's farmhands back then.
Yeah.
You know, because it was a big deal.
It was a big mess.
Yeah.
He wasn't the most organized character either.
So you can imagine, you know, he was definitely king of his hill.
And he spent a ton of time entertaining and being himself, you know.
And then you're trying to grow thousands of pounds.
Yeah.
You know, and, you know, and but we were all young then.
A lot of us hadn't, none of us had really made our names anywhere.
You know, it was all people that, you know, it was just, it was a smaller world.
Yeah.
You know, for sure.
And so, but Eddie had a bunch of parties at his house.
He had a bunch of gatherings at his house.
A bunch of people from Spy Rock and Bell Springs would come down because they were shocked that
he could, they did big shit up there, but they live such a crazy lifestyle.
They were shocked he could do it literally like you drive, I can still,
I drive by his house pretty often still.
You can see it from the highway.
Yeah.
Yeah, his old house that he lived at for a long time.
Yeah.
And that's the house that's in the can of Bible, you know.
And it was like a who's who of legalization guys.
I should say something else.
You know, his last years, Jack Herrera moved and got a house right down the street from Eddie.
Yeah.
I passed by that house too, Eddie.
Jack Herrera was at a bunch of those parties.
I have some signed books by him and stuff like that.
He was over there a bunch just hanging out, you know.
Yeah.
You know, he had some health problems right there on the 20.
Yep.
He had some health problems and some strokes and stroke issues and stuff like that.
So some of his last years he was, you know, he kind of had like,
you know, sometimes some parts of your face don't work the greatest.
Yeah.
But his mind was still there, even though sometimes he struggled to get out certain things.
Yeah.
But, you know, Jack is another hero.
Yeah.
He had a whole cannabis cup made after him.
He was, you know, he wrote the book on the hemp possibilities.
Yep.
You know, it was kind of a smaller world.
Yeah.
But it was all those Ron's parties, the can of Bible parties, Eddie Lep's whole situation.
This was all sort of like a NorCal, you know, Emerald Triangle, Lake County
kind of thing that was going on, where a lot of people were starting to come off their hills and
meet people, you know, and it was pretty integral to what came later, I think.
Yeah.
You know, it was a lot of us that are middle aged now and are trying to pass down history.
We were looking up to people like Eddie Lep or Rob Clark or Tom Hill, who is a cantankerous old man.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, he was a little nicer.
I'd love to get him on here, but we'll see.
We'll see.
He was a little nicer in person, but man, if he didn't know you and you said something dumb on
the internet, you know, he was going to eviscerate.
I get it.
Yeah, he would eviscerate your ego.
He would rip it out of your asshole and make you feel like the smallest little bitch in the world.
People are saying, there's very weather, there's people saying,
oh, I might've met you back then, not so it's very possible.
Yeah.
You know, that you met me or I met you.
I mean, there was a lot of comings and goings then, even at those parties at Ron's parties,
it's not like I got to meet and like made lasting relationships with everyone there.
Yeah.
Some of them were 20 minute conversations.
Some of them were hours.
Yeah.
Some of them were in the tight circle of people I was hanging out with all weekend
because that's how it worked.
Some of them were on the periphery.
I mean, it's just kind of one of those things.
And none of us were, none of us were anything then.
Yeah.
We were all just a bunch of young weed nerds, you know?
Yeah.
Tom was like, yeah, I agree.
Dirty old Tom.
Tom was super nice to me.
But you read some of the stuff when people ask them dumb questions online and holy fuck.
Yeah.
Right?
Yeah.
I mean, he's, he was highly intelligent.
Some people don't suffer no fooves.
No, he was highly intelligent and he didn't have a lot of patience.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I can definitely relate to that sometimes.
Yeah.
I mean, but you see that, you see that even now, like you get so burnt out by dealing with people.
You know?
I think the same thing happened to Sam Skunkman to some degree.
Oh, yeah.
You know, he was probably nicer and more chill.
And then you get, you have to answer the same 50 questions a billion times and you get accused
of all this shit.
And all of a sudden you're a cantankerous old man.
Yeah, it's very easy to fall in that category.
You know, but those guys were all legends, all heroes to us.
Vic, Tom Hill, Hempy, you know, these were all like leaders of the scene, you know?
And, and old timers to us.
Yeah.
You know, Tom's got to be, I mean, Tom's got to be 20 years older than me.
I don't know.
Maybe, maybe.
I don't, maybe 50s.
You think he's only in his 50s?
Yeah, I think, I think you're pretty old, actually.
I think you're probably older than him.
You're in your 60s?
Yeah, you know, it's all the oil of Olay.
Yeah, it keeps, keeps me young or whatever.
But the reason why I'm babbling about all this shit is, it's where a lot of people,
because there was essentially like, there was essentially like, what's the best way to put it?
Maybe the best way to put it is that in the 90s, most weed scenes were very isolated to themselves.
Yes.
To very small circles.
It was very risky.
It was illegal everywhere.
No one was really chatting.
The Grateful Dead, Dead Tour, Fish Tour, that kind of thing.
There was some overlapping things because people would meet and not be as scared because
nobody knew where anybody else lived.
Yeah.
No, I'm not, dude.
I'm 45.
Matt's joking.
No, he's 60.
He's lying.
I'm 45.
No, I'm definitely not 60.
Definitely not.
You know, but, but, you know, I mean, and I'll say the same thing too, because I just saw
my buddy who I was talking to earlier today, Skunk VA's on the thing, right?
I go to Ron's party and I am so hoping to meet all these legendary people and strains and shit.
And I'm like, just hoping to get hooked up, you know, and not to be a dick, but like,
I felt like I had the chem dog and I had the super skunk and I had the Mendo.
I felt like I had the best weed there.
Yeah.
I was like, I had weed that tore people's head off.
Yeah.
You know?
And, and, you know, that's not to be bragging or anything like that, because it was literally
just the luck of the draw and the luck of my friends.
Yeah.
You know?
And, and Dead Tour, you know, was one of those things where it was, it was sort of like a huge
weed emporium.
Yeah.
And it made a lot of these connections.
And it made a lot of these things that I tied in.
And the whole reason I came out to Mendocino County was because I had a buddy who lived
in Ukiah, which is in the heart of Mendo, who after 2015 passed was like, dude, get
the fuck out here.
Why are you living in Chicago?
Yeah.
So it was literally connections from Dead Tour that like brought me out here, right?
So getting back to what I was saying is that in Northern California, and in Dead shows,
there was a weed scene.
And on the forums, it developed a weed scene.
And in the Emerald Triangle, there was kind of a weed scene, right?
And then these parties and these events and stuff was sort of like the first mixers.
Yeah.
They were the first places where these scenes started to like overlap.
Where the forum scene and the Mendo and Humboldt scenes and the Grateful Dead scenes and all
these different groups that have ties to different circles, they start like a Venn diagram, the
circles start crossing.
Yeah.
And I honestly think that set up kind of everything for the American weed scene for later.
I think so.
I really do.
Like none of us knew it at the time.
No.
By any means.
It wasn't like we're like, oh, we're here for history, you know?
It was just, but it did.
It was the merging of things.
I mean, I should say even back then, this was a few years after Ron's parties, but like,
you know, I mentioned the purple effects that's in the Cannabible.
Maybe I should talk about that for a second, because people might be interested in that.
The purple part of purple effects is just Mendo perps, right?
Yes.
And the effects was this old garlic bud strain that I got from the head grower who worked
for Tim Blake.
Yeah.
Now, Tim Blake now is very famous because he's the founder of Emerald Cup.
But back then he was just a big gorilla outdoor, indoor farmer.
Yeah.
And his main worker was about my age.
They are the purple effects.
And they gave me the effects, which was a super golden, gorgeous, frosty, turpy thing.
Right?
Yeah.
And, you know, there wasn't any reversals, but how the purple effects got made in the
Cannabible is that I had a system that got a little stressed because I had an air conditioner
issue and it took me a few days to get it fixed.
And, you know, as CSI will tell you, you stress the Mendo perps and the fucker will harm.
Yeah.
Right?
So the Mendo perps harmed all over the effects that was right next to it.
And me and a buddy got about 1000 seats.
Jesus.
800 to 1000.
I mean, at the time we were hella pissed.
And the reason we got that many was because we had like these six or seven, you know,
quarter pound to six ounce, you know, effects plants all around it that we couldn't sell.
Yeah.
They're chock full of fucking seed.
But we cracked this thing and it ends up being super turpy, you know, and all that.
And it ended up in the Cannibible was gorgeous weed.
And, you know, I should say that there's been some battles amongst the crew.
We'll talk about that too.
But some of that weed exists still.
I don't have it.
I lost it in a bus.
But some of that weed exists still and it's in the Rose.
It's in the Sprite.
It got passed around at some of Tim Blake's early.
And, you know, people should know that Tim Blake had this spot called Area 101 in north
of Laytonville.
Right?
Yeah.
And he threw a bunch of weed events up there.
And he threw a bunch of like, essentially like weird raves and different kinds of like
musical gatherings and all that kind of stuff.
And it was kind of like a scene.
And, you know, the first half a dozen Emerald Cups were all super local events held there.
Yeah.
And so I passed out a bunch of seed.
There was a gentleman that used to work up there and used to work at Reggae a bunch called
Fuzzy.
That's not his real name, but that's his nickname.
And, you know, and all that and stuff.
And so, you know, he ended up getting the purple effects for me.
And that's who the, you know, Tony Mendo and those guys got it from.
Yeah, and it got blended into Skittles and it got all these different things, you know,
and it lives today.
Yeah.
You know, but that was a total, that was before Femmes.
That was literally an unintentional fuck up, where in summertime, the AC went out for two
days.
Yeah.
And, you know, it got hot.
And then I put a new AC in and everything was good.
And then the Mendo P just threw pollen.
Yeah.
And I had a, and I had a feminized cross.
People are asking, what about California Black Rose?
As far as I know, it's the same thing.
Same thing.
So what happened to them is like a lot of cannabis terms, Rose is trademarked.
Yep.
Rose is a very specific kind of wine.
And there's also another seed company that has a totally different line called Rose as
well, Relentless.
And that's not related to, I don't think it's related to the same diamond grape one, but
don't quote me now that I think about it.
I don't know.
But it's still very different.
So they had to change it because they got, because as you get legal, and you start entering
these things and stuff, you start getting sued.
Yeah.
You know, Girl Scout Cookies and Thin Mint is cookies because they got fucking sued by
the Girl Scouts.
Yeah.
You know, the reason why Skittles has Z's, you know, is they're trying to skate around
these trademark laws, right?
So Rose is Russian OG crossed with Skittles.
That's the Z.
Crossed to Purple Effects.
That's the E. And it took second place, I don't know, three, four years ago or whatever
at the Emerald Cup.
So what I got out of them, and this one's been, I think I have a screenshot of it.
It was Russian Kush, Oz Kush, Effects, crossed back to Skittles is the claim.
Yeah.
Something like that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So it's close to that.
But they had the seeds that they had were Purple Effects seeds from Fuzzy that was from
me.
Yeah.
Because back then it was like there wasn't any, I mean, in this same time frame, I should
say this too, but you know, my buddy from me and Skunk VA's old friend who, with the
chems and stuff, we were working on these super dog projects together and crossing them
to all kinds of different hybrids and clone only as we had.
And my buddy Mandelbrot at the time who wasn't into seeds or breeding wanted to get started
with weed.
And I ended up giving him a bunch of seeds and some clones to get him started on this
project.
And he ended up becoming pretty well known.
Some of the stuff he got famous for was based off that work.
Some of it was a little different from different things.
Yeah.
But the reason I brought that up isn't to like lay claim.
It's to say that back then we were very free with trading things.
Yeah.
Because no one ever thought that they could come out of the woodwork and lay claim to
anything.
Yeah.
Right?
Yeah.
That wasn't a worry.
Now it's all like, fuck you, you can't breed with my cut.
That's mine.
That's my seed line I want.
Matt knows this more than me because I've avoided so far a lot of the weed politics
by giving away a bunch of seeds for free.
Yeah.
When you sell seeds like Matt, you end up getting, you know, I want half the seeds because
you use my cut in this one cross.
I want rep.
I want you to mention me.
I want you to give me money.
It's my shit.
You don't have permission.
Blow jobs.
I have so many blow jobs I've had to give just because of seeds.
It's not fair.
Not fair.
Yeah.
It's not, you know, I mean, do what you love.
Do what you love.
So it's what I'm good at.
So yeah.
So there's an aspect of politics, but this was before that politics.
People just swapped seeds.
People just swapped, you know, people just swapped cuttings.
People swapped, you know, all this different stuff.
It wasn't like, you know, you didn't want your name attached to weed.
Because then they'd fucking find you.
What the fuck is that?
Yeah.
It's ridiculous.
You know, you'd get in trouble.
Right?
You don't want anything named after you.
What the fuck is...
Crazy, you know?
Yeah.
And then now it's come full circle.
It's 180 degrees.
And now it's like, someone's like, I didn't breed this cut, but I did make it famous.
So therefore, if you're making any money off it, you must give me money.
The rule of the map.
And it's in, yeah.
And it's in my terms.
Yeah.
You know, I want seeds.
I want money.
I want rep.
I want all three.
And all this different stuff.
But it's just like those things.
I mean, it's even like, you know, people were asking way earlier on the thing.
That I have to sign a disclosure for DJ.
Yeah.
DJ came up with all that.
All that.
This is my shit.
You can't do anything with it.
Way fucking later.
Yeah.
Yeah.
At the time, there was no...
At the time, there was no...
I mean, people should give credit.
You know, I mean, I just saw a homie mentioned that people should give credit.
You should say that I got this from this person.
You know, you also should.
If you got a cut from somebody, you should give it back to them if they lose it.
That's really good etiquette.
You know, I've had multiple things that I've lost.
And I've tried to get back from people.
I mentioned the purple effects.
That's one of them that exists.
I can't get it back without trading other things for it.
Yeah.
Which I think is super shady and a breach of the code.
At least the code when I came up.
You're definitely supposed to do that.
There's some honor.
I mean, half the reason people trade things is so you don't lose things.
Yeah.
Because angry girlfriend, angry boyfriend, bust, fire, landlord, moving, accident, whatever.
You know, all those different types of things.
You know, you trade things back amongst people.
You know, I mean, one of the reasons, you know, I'll say this because he's listening or whatever.
But I mean, one of the reasons why the Chem 91 didn't get lost.
Yeah.
Was because there was a tight group of, you know, four or five of us.
Myself, Skunk DA, IC Collective, my buddy from Staten Island who all had it and all lived in NorCal.
And, you know, we all kept it alive.
You know, people sometimes people got in trouble.
Some people still had to move.
Sometimes you had to get it back from somebody or whatever.
And it was like we were all heavily invested in making sure these things lived.
You know?
Yeah.
I mean, that's why a lot of these cuts are still in our group, you know, like in our tight circle.
Because, you know, we all move around.
We all fucking, you know.
He said he's just saying I'll just say I'll just say this.
I got to keep thinking because I keep wanting to say his name.
But Skunk DA, I like I have a hard time bullshitting at pace and reading comments at the same time.
Yeah, I mean, he did.
You know, he you know, you know, there were some people that lost it.
I mean, my whole name, you know, he just said that I had to give IC back the cut like five times.
My whole name Not So Dog is because our buddy from Staten Island drove up to CIC collective
and got a bag of dog and brought it back.
And it wasn't the dog because dude was dude, dude used to party.
And he got mixed up and mixed up his clones.
And he grew a whole room of chem dog.
And it was like Romulan or something like that.
You know, it really was.
We had to get it to him back because he was like, what do you mean it's not it?
It has to be.
You know, and I'm like, no, dude, it's not so dog.
It's not it.
We had to call him up.
And homie was all excited.
He's like, I've never seen it look like this, you know.
And I was like, the reason why he's never I stuck my head in the bag because I was in the bag.
I was in the car with Staten Island.
I told it before and I looked up and I'm like, it's not so dog.
It's not dog.
I don't know what you're talking about.
You're tripping.
You know, and so, you know, I mean, that's crazy.
You know, they used to be.
Yeah, they used to be best friends.
And I'm not, you know, there's and there's aspects to stories I always leave out because
they're personal and I don't think they're super pertinent.
Yeah, I'm just stoked for us because I want to get both those motherfuckers on here at
the same time with you.
It would be great.
It would be cool to get homie to get to come talk because a lot of the story people should
know and that people are like, oh, not so it wasn't there.
This that whatever else a lot of the stories I have, you know, come from Staten Island
or come from Skunk VA talking to them 20 plus years ago.
Yeah, before the forums before the fame before he got on and got his handle Skunk VA, you
know, before the cut was getting traded when it was just our little crew that had it.
Yeah, you know, honestly, like they don't come from me.
They come from my memory of like what I remember about sitting around shooting the shit and
growing weed and doing shit together.
Yeah, you know, it would be it would be a really
neat thing to do both to bridge that gap between the two of them and get them to talk
back and forth, you know?
And you know, we've been trying to get dude on here for a long time actually.
I've been trying to get Skunk VA too.
He's just so shy.
He's kind of prickly but I mean, him and I were, you know, me and him and Skunk VA, we've
all known each other a long time.
Yeah, really long time way back.
And so, you know, at a certain point, you know, you bury the hatchet about different
things.
It's hard, you know, it's hard.
It's hard being in weed and having all these like interpersonal, you know, you mix business
and friendship.
Yep.
You know, and people have different memories about shit.
Yeah, you know, and all that.
So, you know, it but yeah, it's good.
I spoke to right before the show, actually.
Skunk VA and I were talking about chatting back and forth a bunch via text about some
stuff and we have a ray of hope on something that we maybe thought was long lost.
So if it's so developed, I'll report back.
But that's what we try to do.
It's like old friends trying to look out for one another.
Yeah, you only make it through this world, you know, the people are much more important
at the end of the day than the money or the fame or the bullshit.
Yeah, I'm big into people.
You know, I need enough money to survive, you know, but I'm big into people.
Yeah.
You know, so it's I like to see my friends doing good.
I like to see and we've all you know, all of us are like, semi autistic weed nerds in
some way or whatever, you know, and like you, it's odd, you know, living alone or living
living amongst, you know, small groups of people and living weed and taking a bunch
of risks and staying secret for a long time.
Like me showing my face is fucking nuts.
Yeah.
You know, and now I show up weekly.
Yeah.
You know, and, you know, so I just I just thought it would be it would be cool because
this era is like right before kind of Matt came into things.
Yeah.
Which is like, I apologize because I keep trying to get shows done where I make it like
more Matt's era than mine.
Because there's an era where like...
My era is much smaller.
There's an era where like, you know, I was having a bunch of kids and had some issues
or whatever.
And, and Matt was super engaged when I was a little less engaged.
But so far, you know, I'm going to drag him kicking and screaming into his era, where
it's mostly him talking and me shutting up.
But he keeps making us do these things where it's a little older stuff.
Yeah, I think it's a lot too, because I've been, you know, doing the live feed for a
long time.
And I think for this many years, I think people are more excited to hear from someone else
for a bit.
And I'm excited to hear like from an era I wasn't a part of.
And I think nobody gives a fuck to hear what I have to say about something I wasn't a part
of.
And I don't either.
So I think it's not just about my ego on this thing.
I think it's good to get all aspects of history on here.
And you know, there's a thing too, where it's like, I mean, we didn't know back in the day
that the chem dog was going to become super famous.
It stayed alive.
Because our buddy from Staten Island used to take it to like, you could meet him outside
of any Jerry show outside the Warfield and probably buy a $400 ounce.
Yeah.
You know, you know, all that you could, you know, when Jerry Garcia died, you know, and
he decided to and, you know, Skunk VA came back to California, you know, he got cuts
from homie and he started growing because all of a sudden he was settled down.
He wasn't traveling and seeing shows and stuff.
And that's where some of his Polaroids come from of that old skunk cut, you know, and,
you know, small group of us were growing the dog.
And we were always, we called it, you know, no one called the chem 91 and all that.
That's all like later, we all called it the dog.
Yeah.
And, you know, Skunk VA and our buddy from Staten Island, they mostly grew organic.
So they didn't want to call their weed chem.
Yeah.
They weren't going to call it the chem dog.
I think that picture, I think that picture of the super skunk for me, at least, and what
I'm interested in is one of the most important pictures that anybody could have kept.
That and some of the Josh DOG pictures.
Yeah.
Those are specifically the sour picture and pictures of sour pictures, the old super skunk
super, super fucking important for solving that weird mystery of like, was this super
skunk cut the same as the original super skunk cut that was hard to, that was hard to figure
out.
Yeah.
And that helped a lot.
I mean, there's a thing to like part of the, you know, we don't need to go over it again,
but we'll talk about it just really briefly.
We're talking about like, Ron's parties and these and the triangle and the dead scene
and all that.
I mean, the whole reason that the Francine got taken out east and you know, the super
skunk came west and all that stuff was all because of Jerry shows.
Yeah.
That our friend and Skunk VA were at and friends of his from back east and smoking weed together
at the show.
And then people wanting that stuff.
And so I don't need to, you know, I wasn't there.
I don't need to tell that part.
You know, he's told that story pretty eloquently and stuff like that.
But it is showing how those circles overlapped.
Yeah.
You know, and one led to the other and stuff like that, you know?
And so, you know, huh.
Let's lock in Skunk VA for next week, next Friday, Skunk VA will be on and he will be
happy to be performing.
Thank you, Skunk VA.
I don't know if he said, I don't know if we locked him in, but if we did, we're going
to chat again this weekend.
I have a line on something I thought was long lost that's dear to both of our hearts.
So I'm trying my damnedest to make sure I can get it back to all of us.
But we'll see, you know, and I do believe I'm not particularly superstitious.
But I do believe in the energy of the plant.
And I do believe in the universe a bit like making things come to you.
And I can say for everyone out there, for me, at least the number one way that you get
the cuts that you want and you get the things that you want in cannabis is by treating the
plant the right way and having the right intentions.
Yeah.
That's what I say, because that's going to long term, that's going to get the right
people to trust you.
Yeah.
And that's going to lead to what you want.
And I do believe the plant has an energy.
And I do believe the plant wants to, you know, wants to find people that'll keep it safe.
I agree.
I really do.
I don't know.
There's not, I can't prove it, obviously.
But I believe that there's collectors out there and the plant hides in places where
it's hoping that someone cares about it and isn't just monetarily attached to it, but
loves it.
You know, and a lot of the things that I have, I wouldn't have because I would have gotten
rid of them as soon as they were unpopular.
Yeah.
But I personally liked them and cared about them.
And then there's friends of mine that feel the same way.
And that's why they have their shit.
You know?
Yeah.
And so it's a general theme among our friends.
Yeah, it's a theme, you know, and if you get, it's like you get trusted in circles and,
you know, maybe we can go into this.
There's an aspect of like authenticity that we were going to talk about before, right?
Because we are kind of getting an hour and a half into it.
So maybe we can talk a little bit about this.
And there's aspects of things where now that I'm being public, okay, and I'm starting to
tell some of these stories, I should say that there's a lot of things that maybe like
five or 10% of the weed community knows pretty well.
Yeah.
That becomes difficult where how do you let the other 90% know?
Yeah.
So there's a lot of like accepted facts among small groups of people that want to trade
this kind of information, right?
Sure.
And then you want to get it out there and you get fucking attacked.
Yeah.
And so, you know, Matt can attest that he tried to get me to do this for a long ass time.
And I wouldn't.
Yeah.
Right?
I mean, well, I mean, you were just watching what happened to me and you're like,
fuck that.
I don't want that in my life.
I was also like showing, I mean, I did Caleb's event up in, you know, and it was like, I
showed my face.
I was in front of a huge crowd, you know, of people and I was just like, oh my God, you
know, I mean, I didn't give my real name, but it's still at the time it was difficult.
Yeah.
But what it comes down to is that if what convinced me to do it is, is like, if you
don't try to get some version of the truth out there or what you believe to be the truth
and it's just going to be overwhelmed by bullshit.
Yeah.
Right.
And there's an aspect where it's like, and I really get upset about it sometimes where
there's this IG thing where people pile on each other.
Yeah.
Okay.
And you know, Matt's a villain on IG.
Yes.
I want to be.
To a lot of people that don't know him in real life.
Yeah.
You know, and if we want to fast forward a bit before COVID, Matt and I, there was other
friends that helped and stuff like that.
So I'm not trying to diss anyone I'm not mentioning, but Matt and I and a few other
friends kind of like got this idea to throw what we call like the Canilluminati party.
Yeah.
And it was sort of kind of based on Ron's old parties and some of those old gatherings,
but more modern.
And we decided to do it the same weekend as Emerald Cup, you know, because everybody would
be in town.
Yeah.
So we rented a huge house and invited a bunch of people over on Friday and Saturday night
of Emerald Cup.
And both years, you know, we had hundreds of people come to the house.
Yeah.
Right.
And believe it or not, nobody punched Matt.
No, oddly enough.
Nobody attacked Matt.
There's a lot of people that you don't imagine that like respect him a whole bunch.
Yeah.
I don't know about that, but they didn't punch me.
Yeah.
You know, you have a lot of friends, you know, there's a lot of friends.
You get a bunch of collectors and breeders and weed nerds and people in the industry
that come through and want to hang out with each other.
And you got to realize that like we were trying to throw an event where it's like those guys
spend all day at their fucking booth talking to customers and trying to give their customers
a little bit of one on one time.
Yeah.
Right.
And then at night time, you know, they get to come out and hang with a bunch of people
just like them.
Yeah.
And trade weed amongst people just like them and shoot the shit and, you know, trade cuts
and talk about bullshit and do all this various shit, you know?
Yeah.
And so we really had a good time those couple of years before COVID fucked it all up.
Yeah, that was fun, dude.
Yeah, we had, you know, we had a lot of people.
We had, you know, CSI and Bodhi and kind of, I mean, you could go there was hundreds of people.
Yeah.
A who's who.
Not everybody, but a lot of people, you know, some people were busy or burned out or whatever,
you know?
Yeah.
And so we were trying to recreate some of those like more innocent time parties.
Yeah.
And, you know, and, you know, and I brought tons of weed and various friends brought tons
of weed and we just have like a huge table full of jars that were labeled and anybody
could freely smoke.
Yeah.
Whatever they wanted.
And even like just like the forums, there was a bunch of friends I made on IG that some of
the first time they smoked the headband, some of the first time they smoked the real Chem D,
some of the first time they smoked this different stuff was at these parties.
They might hear you talk about it, but they don't actually see your weed.
Yeah.
You know, and then they get a chance to do it and then you get to share a bunch of your
weed with friends and you get to do all these different kinds of things, you know?
And so that part is really neat because that kind of, I wish you went to dude,
we're gonna have another one after COVID.
You know, there's a, you know, it's just like a who's who of people that have been
around for a long time and you would not believe how little beef there is.
Yeah, there was none.
There wasn't any beef.
It was just a bunch of friends.
It was smoking out, eating a bunch of food, having a great time, you know, trading beans,
trading cuts, making connections, putting faces to names, right?
Yeah.
All that different types of stuff, right?
And so you have an aspect where we've had some issues this week where, you know,
you start having these talks week by week.
And like I said, Matt's a bit of a villain online.
And because now I'm coming out and we haven't even hit some of the controversial topics yet,
but as I'm coming out and talking about stuff, you start getting enemies.
Mm.
You start getting people that are annoyed that people are listening to you,
or they don't believe your version of events, or, you know, on IG or on various discords,
they want to like disparage your character and say you weren't around and say that you
didn't have anything or your weed was shit or your seeds suck or whatever.
And honestly, like it becomes really hard because a lot of people that are listening,
you don't know the person you're siding with and you don't know the person that
you're against in real life.
Yeah.
Like an honest real life.
Yeah, no.
You know, so it becomes hard.
How do you choose?
You know, how do you make stuff happen?
I mean, there was people that were accusing me this week of not even see the chems until 08.
You know, and then I came out of nowhere and then all my stories are lies and not so
it just means the stories are not so.
And let's be fair, though, like the people that were doing this were people that were
in the outer circle of our friend group and never made it quite on the in circle because they were
bad people and they fuck people over or they did certain things that seemed to be bad.
Yeah, people haven't asked to grow.
You know, and that's my point, right?
So Matt will come out and say, this person's a scammer.
He's stealing cuts.
He's trying to fuck you over.
He's trying to take your money.
And then that person and like and some bots and like a bunch of fake accounts and a bunch
of people that bought seeds all attack Matt.
Yeah.
You know, he's a faggot.
He's a Jew.
He's fat.
He's this.
He I got.
Oh, no, I'm also a Nazi.
He's a not.
Yeah, Jewish Nazi.
All these various things are getting attacked.
And so as I become a public figure a little bit like they start attacking, oh, is that
that party is weed sucks this and that everything else.
And it's fine people to throw barbs.
It's part of it.
Yeah, right.
And I'm not even saying you should trust me.
But what I am saying is that, you know, weed has a lot of people lived in the shadows.
Yeah.
And it's not documented.
And the reason why we're doing a bunch of these stories is because we want to get oral
history out there.
And we want to do it in a conversational fashion that doesn't bore you to death.
Yeah.
And we try to do that.
And then that steps on toes and then people are furious.
And so they can't fuck with the story.
Right.
But so they'll fuck with Matt or they'll fuck with me or they'll say you're a liar.
They say, oh, I know for a fact he didn't touch Kem until after 08.
Or he didn't have this or his headband is watered down or whatever they want to say
about Matt.
It's just the 707.
Yeah, just some bullshit.
And it's like, you know, and it's like, you don't want to spend all your life fucking
like refuting a bunch of bullshit.
You know, because it's like, everybody that knows me knows me.
Yeah.
You know, and Matt and vice versa, you know, and so we're trying to get truth out there.
We're trying to get truth that like we're not making any money off of.
Yeah, you know, a lot of these, a lot of these podcasts are like weed infomercials.
Here's three hours of why you should buy my seats.
Yeah.
Let's talk extensively about you and why you're great and why you're integral to the
story and why you're a cannabis historian and why you're so amazing.
And this is going to help you make money.
Shit, I should have been inserting myself into all this old shit.
God damn it.
Yeah, you know, and it's like you do need, you know, we do plug for two or three minutes,
some stuff that Matt's doing or, you know, CSI or different people at times, because
there is a financial element to like making all this different types of stuff work.
Right.
Yeah.
To some degree.
But really what it is, is that now that I'm old and I'm in my mid forties or whatever,
there might be people that are 23 that want to hear.
Yeah.
Or it might be 40 and want to hear the real truth.
And then eventually you just have to decide because there are some real scumbags.
Yeah.
That just come out and insert themselves and then rely on,
if you speak up, I'll blow up your fucking life.
And is it really worth it?
Yeah.
I'll attack and attack and attack and attack and I'll fuck you over and I'll make your life
miserable for weeks.
Yeah.
So shut the fuck up about what you all know.
Yeah.
And there's so much of that, honestly.
And coming from so many fucking angles, like it's a headache.
It's rife for sociopaths.
It's rife for shade balls.
Beans have always been shady and they're not getting any less shady.
Yeah.
You know, they're just not.
Yeah.
You know.
But there's a bunch of us, you know, who have been around long enough.
You know, I mean, there's this running, I'm not going to call them out or whatever, but
like, I don't even, it was like a super long time ago.
And like me and Skunk VA were talking about whether or not we were going to go to these
like dead shows in the city.
And he's telling me, he's like, man, because he's a little older than me and he was on
tour for longer than I was.
So he has more connections than I do, to be perfectly frank, because he's about six or
seven years older than me.
You know, he was like, dude, we could go.
But he's like, then I'm going to see this guy.
I know he doesn't pay his child support.
And I'm going to see this guy and he owes my friend 15 grand and I'm going to see this
other guy.
And you know, these people's backstories and then it's like, you're going to see some people
you're like so stoked on.
And then you're going to see some other people and you're just gonna be like, man, why can't
you be cooler?
We were friends.
Yeah, you're kind of a shit bag.
Yeah.
Pay your kids, you know, pay your child support, pay my buddy back.
You ripped him off when you were down and out, you know?
Yeah.
And that goes on in Weed World.
And then what city?
San Francisco.
At the time, at the time, both him and I lived in Northern California.
He lived in Sonoma.
I lived in Mendo.
So we were, we were thinking about going to the city.
So we were, we were thinking about going down to SF and catching some shows at Mountain
View or something.
You know, and that's the thing is like a lot of times I'll talk about things in like a
general sense.
Because you start calling out individual people and then the next week of my life is fucking
that asshole trying to defend themselves.
Yes.
And you know, and blowing themselves up.
Yeah, and me and homie, Matt and I and me and Skunk B, we know a lot of history.
Yeah.
Not all of it is, not all of it is, is beneficial to the people.
No, unfortunately.
But then you can't, you know, it doesn't pay to spend your whole life trying to warn the
fan unity about who to attack off because it's whack-a-mole.
Yeah, I tried that.
I really did.
And it just, it did not pay off.
It was, it was detrimental to my career.
I will say I don't recommend people do that for any reason whatsoever if you have a, an
interest in being successful.
Yeah, I mean, I, so yeah, you know, I mean, there's, there's that aspect.
And so I'm not saying trust me or trust Matt.
I'm saying like, if you're giving us your time every Friday night, you get to talk to
us at length and ask questions and stuff.
Eventually you have to, maybe you can hear enough of things that you get a general sense
of who we are.
Yeah, but I will say that IG is an image and that sociopaths are very, very good at curating
an image.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You know, they do best.
And, you know, and yet someone just said nobody's perfect.
People aren't perfect.
You're right.
People aren't, you know, people aren't perfect.
And I'm not even trying to judge people.
That's why I'm not calling anybody out by name.
Yeah, I'm just saying a general, I'm just saying a general state of events.
I do have someone I was going to call out by name, but it's, it's getting late.
And there's one more big thing I want to, I want to get put aside.
So it's not just my opinion.
I'm actually using their words.
Yeah, I'm not going to, it's not even a big enough deal really, but it'll just be funny.
It'll be funny.
For someone I once looked up to.
Do it.
Do what?
Whatever you were about to do or you're not.
No, no, I still need some of the, the old.
Some of the details.
Yeah. Yeah.
So, and I don't want it just to be my opinion.
I want it to be dude's own words.
Sure. No, I get it.
Yeah.
So, I mean, and that's kind of what we talk about, like when people are like the can illuminati,
you know, the can illuminati is not like some kind of organization or membership.
There's no dues, you know, there's no one that controls it.
What it basically means is that you're enough of a weed head that you care enough of the
history to hold on to strains, to hold on to seeds, to want to dig for the truth.
And you talk to other people like that.
And it basically, it's a like minded group of people.
And we know who each other are.
And it's like, even amongst that group, there's not even really trading.
No, there's just like, dude, like once, you know, it's like, you know,
a skunk VA and I were talking earlier today about it.
It's like, we're not going to trade anything.
No.
Like, it's like, oh, you need a couple of these and I can get you this or whatever.
It's not like a trade.
It's more just like, you know, you're in the circle.
This is what I have.
This is what you have.
Yeah.
You know, I don't think there's anything wrong with trading because trading is perfectly
acceptable, especially if you don't know each other.
But once you've been personal friends for a couple of decades, it's just friends helping
friends.
Yeah.
You know, and a lot of the ways that this stuff exists, like, you know, our history,
that's really why I'm chatting is because I don't want all of our history to be lost.
No.
I want it to be out there in some kind of form.
And it's almost all oral.
Yeah.
And with a lot of the forums going down over the years, whether it be from the feds, you
know, getting ahold of the ICMAG server to, you know, Canna Collective, Pot Pimp, any
of the C-Depot, any of those that have gone down, they had a lot of information on them.
Like C-Depot, a lot of people that people look at today as old school heroes and whatnot
or really trustworthy people all popped up on C-Depot and their whole history is gone
because that site was gone.
The dude disappeared after fucking everyone over that owned it.
So that's gone, but it's in a lot of people's memories.
So this is really the only chance we have to put that out there.
Yeah.
And so we're just trying to regurgitate stuff and get it out there and get different versions
of things.
Yeah.
You know, and, you know, like anything, you know, some of these stories, there's people
that have different memories.
Yeah.
There's people that have different versions, even like the three or four people that were
there might not tell the same tale.
Yeah.
They were the ones that were there.
I know I got a nickname for being a power bottom at the last party and I'm pretty sure
I was power top.
Pretty sure.
You know, but I mean, it's cool because then you get, then you get, you know, these parties,
these gatherings and stuff, they really are bonding.
Yeah.
They really are where human connections are made.
You get to smoke a bunch of your good friends weed.
You get to see them in person.
You get to hear what their voice sounds like and hear them laugh.
You get to break bread and food with people, you know?
Yeah.
And you get to share weed and share experiences.
And so I think that's, you know, what, maybe we can get the Can Illuminati parties together
again.
Now that COVID seems to be dying down and there's lots of people that are either been
infected or vaccinated and it's not so much like the plague.
Yeah.
It was for a few years where it was shutting shit down.
Yeah.
But those kinds of gatherings are important.
And so tonight, you know, we're almost at two hours, so I'll probably shut up here in
a second.
But I just wanted to give like a general random overview of some of the overlapping things
that were happening in that era.
Yeah.
It really set the stage for everything that came after.
Yeah.
It was really where a lot of friendships were made.
It was where a lot of trading and a lot of seed exchange was done.
It was where a lot of cuttings and a lot of people smoking other people's weed and learning
happened.
And then a lot of those guys ended up becoming super well known in the community.
Yeah.
You know, so, you know, it, you know, but you don't know it at the time.
No.
That's the funny thing about history is you don't know if you're making it, you don't
know, you know, so.
But really what it boils down to is we're all just people.
Some of us care about the plant.
Yeah.
Some of us care about rapping money and, you know, scamming people.
And there's a big conflict between those two right now.
Yeah.
In the community.
There's been one for a long time.
Yeah.
But it's gotten more public and I mean, even like, you know, Matt's been doxxed before,
you know, and even some of those comments I was referencing that we're not going to
mention this week, people were saying my real name.
Yeah.
Not that I cared to some degree, because it's, you know, like, I'm showing my face
every week.
So yeah.
Principle of the thing though, you're not saying your Christian name every week.
No, I'm not saying my Christian name every week or anything like that, you know, and
so, you know, but what's funny about that is that I can use that later to prove something
that will like blow them up in the face.
Yes.
Yeah.
And I've been pushed enough, enough times by this human being to, you know, just suck.
It sucks to have to do it.
But because they're saying such extreme shit, like there's only a few things in life that
I take for personal is when you talk about my friend's family, or you call me a fucking
Nazi.
Like, I spent my whole young life, literally fist fighting Nazis and being punched by them
many, many, many times.
So I take it very seriously when someone accuses me of such things.
So yeah.
And you're, and I'm a Jewish Mexican.
Yeah.
So there's not, there's not too many Nazi Jews, you know, it's kind of unusual, but
so anyway, Matt, if you want to do your plug, because we're almost two hours here or whatever.
Yeah.
So we have our Patreon.
It's called the Breeder Syndicate Patreon.
The way to find it is to go to Google and type in Breeder Syndicate Patreon.
If you go to Patreon and type in Breeder Syndicate, it's not going to come up because it is a
pot channel and you cannot search pot channels.
So go to Google, type in Breeder Syndicate Patreon.
Tomorrow I'm going to be watching fights.
If you want to, you know, hang out and do some fight watching, we can do that.
We have the Santa Cruz goat farm, Fenlines, the reversed Arcada train wreck lines, up
for sale right now on the site.
Go check them out.
My boy packs a fucking killer dude and he made some killer things, including the Santa
Cruz Blue Dream train wreck, which I'm really, really stoked to see.
We also have me and CSI's Hawaiian Lights drop.
I'm about to make the Hawaiian Lights hybrids public so everybody can fucking join in and
grab that shit.
So go check it out.
Yeah.
So I think that's it.
Go check out Speakeasy.
They do all the editing of the podcast and stuff.
So go give them support and follow.
And I'll just say one thing after Matt did all that, you know, we're getting up to 200,
230, 250 people a week now doing this every Friday.
Thank you all for listening.
Thank you all for taking time out of your night to bullshit with us and ask questions.
As always, you can reach me on IG.
You can message me.
He's been approving people.
So I've literally approved like 1500 people this week and it keeps going.
If you really want to get approved, send me a message and I'll see it and I'll do it faster
for you.
I'm trying to get through.
Everyone, I really appreciate you giving us some part of your Friday night.
And we're going to try to get more topics and more history out there and keep it fun.
So thank you all so much.
Thank you guys.
See you next week.
Cheers.
