What's up everyone? So I'm sick tonight so I probably won't be talking a whole lot
not so hopefully we'll be doing most of the talking like usual. Yeah our Riot
seed co account got blocked from going live and I found that out the second I
tried to go live. That's fucking weird but I do get reported a lot so whatever
fuck them. We'll do it on this platform and it may be a smaller show but I don't
really give a fuck so all the people who want to be here will be here. If y'all
look back there look at that beauty that is a tender telecaster. Hey what's up?
Hey yeah so old fucking Instagram blocked me because someone's been
reporting me. Wonder who? I mean you're popular. Yeah it could be any one of
my loyal adoring fans. So you know so we can yeah I mean it's hard to it's
definitely got the potential for abuse. Yeah I mean if you want to tell history
you're gonna be pissing people off no matter what you do no matter what you're
talking about no matter which subject it is because there's always someone making
money off the subject you know. Oh yeah there's people that are make there's
people that like what is it the more mystery less history. Yes yes. That's like
relationship advice but I guess it comes into play with cannabis you know. It does
it does. I was thinking like even in UFOs dude people go fucking nuts on each
other when they don't necessarily believe the same exact you know thing
and and they report each other and they get real nasty and like dox each other
and swat each other. Yeah I mean everybody likes science until it
challenges their assumptions. Yeah there you go. I mean and it you know and it's
rare that science is going to back you up on everything that you believe. Yeah
yeah exactly. Oh wow we do have 80 people in here so that's a plus. It is. Despite
this account being much smaller. It's it's looks like it's popping up so and
it's only been a couple of minutes so hopefully more people pop on and whatnot
and I guess if we're interesting enough we'll have a podcast on it or something
too maybe so we'll see. Yeah maybe we'll see how it goes. We'll see how it goes.
All right is there anything you wanted to touch on early on? Well I mean we kind
of like we were kind of gonna have a grab bag of things to chat about today.
We were gonna talk a little bit since it kind of ties into what you and CSI have
going on. We were gonna kind of touch on a little bit of Hawaiian history and
what Hawaiian means in general in terms of cannabis you know. Yeah. And you know
and then we were gonna and there was something that kind of irritated both of
us about terpenes and some other stuff that we were gonna bullshit about. That's
right I printed this out too. So we can you know so yeah you know so not too bad.
So maybe what we can do we got 91 people in climbing so that's pretty positive.
Yeah. So maybe what we can do is we'll keep off the the semi-controversial
stuff for a little bit and we'll start on we'll start on the on Hawaiian right.
Hawaiian. What does it mean to be Hawaiian? So Hawaiian is interesting. Hawaii is a
trippy place because I believe it's the farthest islands from a continent in the
world. Yeah. Right of one of the seven continents it's the farthest it's the
farthest thing. And so there are no there's not much on Hawaii that's native.
Yeah. Of any kind anything. Most things are non-native to Hawaii because it's
essentially a volcanic island chain in the middle of nowhere. Right. But one of
the interesting things about Hawaii is that Hawaii I believe is the only
American state that's actually in the tropics. Oh yeah that would make sense.
So like even even if you go down to like say Florida like the very southern tip of
Florida or the Florida Keys for instance. Yeah. Those are still considered the subtropics.
Yes. Not actual tropics. Yeah. Right. What about what about Guam? You know Guam is an
estate. That's that's true yeah. It's a territory. And I will admit that I'm not
familiar with all of America's territories and where they may or may not be located.
Yeah. I only know that Guam people are called Chamorran. That's I learned that
because I had a friend that was from Guam and I said he was Guamanian. He got real pissed.
But but I'll say this like from the perspective that we're speaking of if you're doing something
in the United States in the 50 United States you don't go through customs the same way as
if you're outside of it. Yeah. So you know we've got this you know I don't have it but they're
doing some you know Hawaiian lights and I have a pretty old strain from Hawaii. And
so we thought we'd chat about what that meant. So there is no we unlike most of what we talk
about where Mexican or Colombian or Panamanian or Thai or African or any of this shit. There
really is no record of marijuana in Hawaii much before you know the 60s or something.
So there's not like there wasn't really any indigenous cultures cultivating it there. Yeah.
Right. And so there's an aspect where you know it's rumored and they certainly were involved
that the Brotherhood of Eternal Love. Yeah. That was one of the locations that they used to grow
cannabis before helicopters flew. And so as a result of that a lot of the common strains back
Mexican Colombian that kind of thing could be grown successfully out there. Yeah. Even today
in Hawaii most people if they want to grow in Hawaii they veg indoors or in greenhouses with
artificial lighting because it's basically so close to 1212 there all the time that anything
that we normally grow in our in our stuff unless it's some kind of pure equatorial sativa would
flower immediately upon going outside. Oh wow. I didn't know that. Yeah. I mean it's it's it's
you know I mean that's part of the reason why equatorials take so long. Yeah. Is they don't
have any like wintertime pressure where they have to create seed before they die. Yeah. It's always
kind of warm and nice and there's not you know you take Afghanistan or Hindu Kush or something
like that where there's a pretty good amount of difference between daytime and nighttime versus
summer and winter. And in the equatorial regions there's not a big difference. Yeah. It might be a
couple of hours. Yeah. Right. And so you might be 12 12 or you might be 13 and 11 or you might be
11 and 13 but you don't really very much beyond that little aspect. Yeah. So Hawaiian Hawaiian
basically is a catch all term for anything in Hawaii. Yeah. Right. Yeah. And what apparently
what used to be grown out there was some combination of Colombians Mexicans ties and
and then some of that stuff was mixed with Afghans. Yeah. For structure and weight and this and that
you know and and all that type of stuff. So you know when when for instance like they were talking about you know
the stuff that Seattle Greg and those guys were getting in the 70s or 80s that they were mixing with their Afghans
they were getting Hawaiian. Yeah. But you know that was probably some combination of Colombian tie
Mexican blended together and or maybe mixed with Afghan. Yeah. Is kind of is kind of that you know. And so
Hawaii used to be a pretty bomb place to grow cannabis. And then the problem became is when the helicopters started
flying in the early 80s and stuff. There's not very much land mass in Hawaii. Yeah. So it's not it. It's not like
northern California or other areas where they just have this vast area to search through. Yeah. There's you know
volcanic areas that it's really easy to see if there's a weed growing. There's jungle areas that are unsuitable. There's
only so many you know human area human habitation areas. And so the area they have to cover is pretty small. Yeah. It
wouldn't be too hard to just fly up a little bit and see. So there was a big boom in the 60s and 70s of people growing
out there. And then as soon as the helicopters started flying a lot of people got a lot. You know Hawaii kind of ceased
being an export on any major level. I'm not saying that it wasn't. Some of it still didn't exist but a lot of it moved into
greenhouses and moved on to the edge of jungles. It became really difficult to get off off any kind of large scale stuff.
Yeah. Because the islands are so small. So when Matt did his interview with with Greg I think was the very first Breeder
Syndicate interview. You know he talked about he thought that the Hawaiian that they were using in L5 was some blend of
Mexican and Colombian. Yeah. Was his was his. Yeah. Was his take on it. Yeah. That was his take. Some kind of Mexican
Colombian which would have been pretty common because that would have been two of the main imports seeded weed imports that
were coming into America at the time. Yeah. Right. And you know and so I have a small tie to to Hawaiian. Not that I live
there or anything like that because I never did. But one of the strains that I still have is we call it the Maui. And of all
places I met a guy from Maui in the in 94 in Amsterdam who had come out there to trade seeds with some of the breeders out
there. And we shared a joint and stuff like that. And I was with some friends and he gave us a small handful of seeds and one
of them became the mountain. So they have truck stops in Hawaii is what you're saying. So I'm in Amsterdam. So they I mean
they have a whole district district. You know they don't even have it. They don't even call it. They just they just it's very much more
open. So and so being 19 or whatever the fuck I was I asked zero intelligent questions of this man. I thought he was a super old
timer which he was probably about my age. He was probably in his 40s but to a 19 year old. Yeah. He seemed a grizzled veteran. Yeah
I'm sure you know. And that trip I spent thousands of dollars on seeds. And the only thing that I ended up keeping was this female
from a handful of seeds that he gave me when we shared a joint. Wow. It's pretty much stuff. You have all the Dutch that that
particular trip which was was one. It was my it was actually my first trip to Amsterdam. Believe it or not in 94 that particular trip
I didn't find anything that was a keeper amongst the stuff that I bought initially. Do you remember what you bought. I bought all kinds of
shit. Yeah I bought an elf. I went to Sensi in 94 and I bought an L5 Hayes. I bought an L5 skunk one. I bought super skunk. Yeah.
From them. You know I bought some. You know I I I think I bought some bubble gum that year. Yeah I bought I bought a random. I bought
some stuff from maybe Dutch passion. Anyway I was stupid. And instead of buying. Well I was 19. Right. So instead of like three or four
things and buying like you know 50 seeds of each thing. Yeah I bought like 15 or 18 things and like one or two packs of each. Yeah. Right.
So then you like crack a pack and it's 10 seeds and you get four females and you don't like it. Yeah. And I was that wasn't at the era I
was so young then. That wasn't at the era where we were like keeping males or breeding or anything like that. Right. So the other thing
too is I got that Maui and we tossed all the males because they were fucking useless. Right. What are we going to do with those. You know.
But but so Hawaiian Hawaiian is definitely you know in that it's kind of it's in the lexicon. Right. And you know someone just said oh
Maui wowie Maui wowie was is kind of like Matt Natanuska Thunderfuck or this or that or whatever. It's a catch all term. It was it was
originally made by a guy named Fast Eddie from the Brotherhood of Eternal Love. So there really was a Maui wowie at one time. Unlike
Matt Natanuska Thunderfuck we can't trace it to one person but that one we can. But what has become Maui wowie I think most of what we see
is Maui wowie are mostly Afghan dominant types. Yeah. And they you know they used to they used to ship some of that stuff in
macadamia nuts. Oh wow. They did. They used to ship it to the states. They used to hide it in the center of macadamia nut tins. Yeah.
And stuff like that. And so you know Hawaiian was sort of a was sort of a catch all phrase. There is no indigenous Hawaiian. Yeah. Right. It
was all basically entrepreneurs bringing other indigenous weed to Hawaii and trying to figure out how to get worthwhile buds. Yeah. It's
basically what it boiled down to. And you know what's interesting about like the the Hawaiian that I have what we call them. And the only
reason why we call it the Maui is because I was dumb and I didn't ask any fucking questions. So the only thing that we knew was the dude was
from Maui. Yeah. But that's it. I met Fast Eddie. I doubt you met you met Fast Eddie because the Fast Eddie that you probably met
was a very famous dude from Dead Tour who is part of the wrecking crew. Maybe you met Fast Eddie from the Brotherhood of Eternal Love. But
around. But yeah I've never been able to get a hold of him. I've tried a lot. But the fact the Fast Eddie that most people are familiar with is from the
wrecking crew. He was he was a pretty famous person on. He goes yeah that guy. It was it was a pretty famous dude on Deadline. If you went to Dead
Tour on any level you probably heard him be like Doses. He had the deepest voice. Doses. He would scream at little kids and stuff. And they were all
drunk and they were just a mess. But anyway. So there's an aspect where you know. So that's Hawaiian. Hawaiian is anything that got brought to Hawaii
and got grown there. Yeah. Basically. Right. Yeah. And then it just gets the name Hawaiian. And just like a lot of what we've talked about this
before but just like a lot of stuff where it obscures like we give nicknames to things and it obscures the origin of where it came from. Yeah that's what
Hawaiian did. You know Seattle Grey got Hawaiian which isn't very helpful. Now you get pure Mexican pure Colombian a blend a blend with Afghan.
He didn't know. Yeah. They could tell was Mexican Colombian because that's the best you could tell was Mexican Colombian. You know. And so you know.
And so that's what got blended in. And back then especially you know nobody knew that all this stuff was going to be famous and lineage and all that was
going to get poured over and be super important. Right. Yeah. And notes were a bad thing. So it is like saying oh I got the California. Yeah. There was a
California indica that made it around the I'm sorry. I got the California. You know it's about it. It like gives you an idea of where the area was
from. Right. And so you know what's interesting is that being that I'm not from Hawaii and I don't really have any ties there. I do have we I do
have some good friends that grew up on the island on various islands and grown there their whole life. Yeah. And when I showed them pictures and
flowers of my Maui cut they did say that there was that wasn't that uncommon of a phenotype that they had seen in the past in Hawaii and that they had
grown from the past. Yeah. You know. So Hawaii is sort of like a catch all from people get stuff you know. I mean like it like there was even a thing
we were talking about a couple episodes ago during the chem dog episode where there's a Maui. Yeah. Why is it called Maui dog. Because someone got
supposedly a dog bud seed and took it to Maui. Yeah. Opted on Maui and now it's Maui dog. Yeah. So the interesting thing there's some pictures of Maui on my
page. It's really interesting. It's huge. It's chunky. It's pretty short. It's got a bunch of Afghan influence. But if you look at it the leaves are
incredibly skinny and double serrated. Yeah. There's this aspect where it's my audio kicking out. It's just off my back off from your video. Kind of. I mean we can hear you but it's just off from your speaking. You look like you're in a Kung Fu movie. I look like I'm in a Kung Fu. Is it better now. No. But it'll work. It'll work. So
sorry that sorry that it's ad libbed or whatever like I'm dubbed. Hopefully that changes. But yeah. So my Maui is you know CSI is always looking to do things that match. Right. And so in addition to my headband you know I've shared a bunch of stuff with him in the hopes that he would breed it and it would get out to a wider audience a bit. And one of the things that's going to get dropped with Matt
and CSI is my Maui by the Hawaiian Lights. I think it's I don't know if that one or Maui by NL5. It might be just be it might be Maui by NL5. But anyway he used it. So you know and so there's an aspect to where it's like you know it's been out there before. There's a cut from Mandelbrot called The Truth which is Maui by Superdog that I made 20 plus years ago or something like that.
So it's percolated around and it's kind of been a Mendo it's been a Mendocino County classic because it's probably not now with the way the market is. But for a long time it was one of those cuts that you could put outside reliably get four or five pounds off it and it would be done in the middle of October. Yeah.
Yeah. And it's pretty. I remember I remember seeing pictures of it. I've never I don't think I've ever smoked Maui but I've never seen pictures of it and thinking it was absolutely gorgeous especially for an outdoor plant. Yeah. And it turns purple in the cold. Yeah. And stuff like that. And it's obviously some kind of sativa Afghan blend because if you look at the buds and the density and how quick it finishes it's got a heavy Afghan you know but it's leaves are like that's I mean it's like super skinny leaves. They don't even
fatten really. They're just like consistently skinny the whole way down and they've got a bunch of double serrations. What's it smell like. You know it smells kind of it smell. I mean it's one of those ones where when I asked the Oh God let's not do that. Yeah. So I'll get all irritated.
It's one of those ones where I've asked tremors for years and years what it smells like. Yeah. And you get ranges from my favorite is you know wiggly wriggly fruity gum. Mm hmm. That's a good smell. You know it's got a super distinctive smell and I will say jokingly that it's a joke that it's like my longest female relationship because we pop that seed in 1994. Yeah. And I still have it.
it. So she's 28 years this year. 28. Yeah. Fucking old. Yeah, that's really old. It's
fucking old. And so I've had her literally, she was the next to the crystal chunk. She
was the second weed that I ever really started religiously cropping. Yeah. And if you're
in Indiana or Chicago or Illinois area, and you ever smoked the Maui, it's very likely
it's the same cut. Because that's where we cropped it first and a bunch of friends grew
it out there and probably still grow it here and there. You know, yeah, it's not elite
by today's standards in terms of like the high, but it's probably it's got a good high.
But it's not up there with the best of the best in my opinion, you know, but yeah, it's
got a bunch of amazing qualities. And it it's, you know, it breeds really well for for color
and frost and structure and all that type of stuff. It's really consistent. And it'll
probably be another show but it is blended into some very famous stuff. You know, that
we won't dive into. But all I know is, all I know is where it's from. Yeah, that's the
totality. That's how it goes. It was from an old dude on Maui that had been growing
there for a long time. And he basically said he grew things and acclimated them there.
And he came over to Amsterdam to trade seeds with friends. Yeah, and he would bring stuff
back and mix it into his lines and da da da da da da da. And so he said it was an Afghan
that finished quick and yielded well and was rot resistant. And you could see the, you
know, you could see the the sativa in it. And so I have pretty high hopes that CSI will
blend it into a few different things. Because it's such a stable breeder. And the other
part about it that I really like is that when anytime you get anything that's that
old, it's lineage ties to something completely different than what's a mishmash of today.
Yeah, that's true. Anything from the mid 90s doesn't really have any of the most famous
40 or 50 cuts that we usually talk about that's in it. Yeah. So a lot of times when you're
breeding you get the best results when you start breeding things that are kind of unlike
each other and not too related. So it's not related to Cam or Kush or this or that or
da da da da da da da, you know, and so it hasn't been overused and over blended. You
know, and so Matt sent me a thing this morning about all the, I'm sorry, I started reading
stuff and got distracted. But you know, we could one day do, we have some good friends
that probably would be a lot better experts on like Hawaiian growing culture and famous
strains and stuff like that. I don't really feel it's like my place to like lead a kind
of discussion like that. It's not an area where my knowledge goes hella deep.
Yeah, I couldn't talk on Molokai frost like people are asking or Kauai electric. I couldn't
talk on any of that. Yeah, I mean, you know, I've heard plenty of stories secondhand. I've
had, you know, I know a bunch of growers from over there and stuff like that over the
years. You know, but you know, we could do a whole episode where people could ask questions.
You know, but I we did think it was worth mentioning. We did think it was cool to talk
about because Hawaiian is sort of getting like brought back in because of this interest
in the NL and NL5 and what Greg was doing. And, and, you know, maybe maybe there's an
aspect of like talking about what Hawaiian was. Yeah, yeah, was beneficial. So, you know,
Hawaiian is is sort of and like what Hawaiian was, isn't what Hawaiian is.
That's correct. Yeah, because what Hawaiian was back then might have been a mix of Colombian
and Mexican and some Afghans and stuff that the Brotherhood of Eternal Love was doing.
But Hawaii now is just another place that clones get sent. Right? So it's got cherry
pie and it's got skunks and it's got this and it's got chems and da da da da da and,
you know, so on and so forth and whatnot. Yeah, it is a cool place in the sense that
there's a, you know, it's super humid there. And it's a totally different environment.
And so you have to find things that do well in that environment.
Yeah, you know what, I that would be a good idea. Maybe we can have Pakalolo in Paradise
on and yeah, that's why I didn't want to talk about it. We have some resources and
some friends that would be far more educated because that's their neck of the woods. Yeah,
to talk about that kind of stuff than we would be. I just wanted to bring it up in the sense
that we've been getting a bunch of questions about Hawaiian and Hawaiian lights and a lot.
What's your Maui and stuff like that. And, you know, Maui is one of those ones where
I even lost it, sadly, for a number of years due to some unfortunate circumstances. But
because it was a classic grown by old timers around my area in Mendo, it lived. Yeah, because
like I said, you know, there was, you know, in an era where like weed was weed, to some
degree. You know, a four to six pound reliable plant that was done in the middle of October
was pretty beneficial. Yeah. So it was kind of one of those things I brought, I brought
it out in 98 or whatever. Yeah. And started spreading it around. And it's kind of percolated
around our area off and on since then. And it's still around there. Yeah. Yeah. I mean,
I still have it. I live here. There's a few friends that have it. It's certainly probably
under pressure with how few strains sell currently. You know, and how rough the market has become
and how low the market has become recently. But it definitely still exists. I gave it
to like I said, I gave it to CSI to breed with, you know, and preserve help preserve,
you know, it's always it's always risky. When you're trying to save things, you have to
find people that have an interest in stuff that were willing to hold on to it. Yeah.
Right. Because there could be a fire, there could be an accident, there could be a bus,
there could be any number of different things. People are talking about what's Aloha White
Widow. I don't really know much about Aloha White Widow, except for Amsterdam, except
for it was White Widow from Amsterdam popped on in Hawaii. Aloha Seeds was from Amsterdam.
Aloha Seeds was from Amsterdam. Yeah, they were a Dutch company. And they they made it.
And they just called it Aloha White Widow. So everybody assumed it was, you know, a Hawaiian
White Widow. See, there you go. I even assumed. Yeah, yeah. I just assumed that it was a it
was another one of those things where you're in. You know, you're in it's it was just one
of those things where it's like, oh, it's from Hawaii. Let's add Hawaii. I actually
called Aloha Seed Bank in Amsterdam. God, when I first heard about the strain, because
I wanted to see if I could still source it at the time. Yeah, they wouldn't even talk
about what was in it or any of that. But yeah, it was it was their their seed line.
They weren't just they just weren't interested in selling it anymore. So it's sort of one
of those things where Soma decided to call a line New York City Diesel. Exactly. And
it's not sour diesel, but we'll call it diesel because it was the first you know. Yeah. So
who knows? Who knows? I was mistaken right there. I didn't actually know its back history.
I've never personally grown it, you know. So I think probably like 99% of people had
no clue that it was Aloha Seed Amsterdam. It's just it's just how it's always gone.
Everybody was Aloha Widow. Of course it would be. And that's that's one of the things that
Matt and I always talk about where it's like, you can make misleading statements and not
outright lie. And then people will just assume. Yeah, like exactly. These genetics are authentic.
By the way, I was super stoked. A long time ago, I made a joke about how you could rename
blueberry or blue dream and call it blueberry fucking yum yum. And someone would probably
buy it. I just today saw a strain called blueberry yum yum taken off. Oh, man. Damn, hot damn.
Somebody's talking about NCGA.
10% wrong.
You know, so yeah, I mean, there's the name game and then creating assumptions based on
that. Yeah. You know, I mean, 20 years ago, if something was named after some kind of
smell or aroma or whatever, it probably had some kind of distinctive remembrance of that.
Yeah. Now it has no connection to it.
Is it a ludicrous song? I call it blueberry yum yum out my ass. But goddamn, it's hard
being original. I wouldn't have known that. It's very hard being original. So yeah, I
mean, there's there's aspects where, you know, Hawaiian, you know, it's probably going to
remain a mystery. And when anytime, anytime you have like a mystery, right, that's hard
to be proven. You're going to get people that are going to claim that they have knowledge.
Yeah, they have facts behind the rumor. And it's like, oh, well, you might not have had
the Hawaiian that went to Greg, but we did. Yeah, that was my uncle. Yeah. Yeah. My uncle.
That was my dad. That was my uncle. That was my that was my dad's best friend. That was
my you know, my aunts, you know, my my aunt's boyfriend, whoever, you know, because you
can't really refute it. And that's really popular in cannabis is being able to not refute
things.
Well, I mean, you saw just just in this episode, just in this 20 minutes or whatever that we've
been live, you saw one person come in here, ask for an opinion because they weren't sure,
and then flip out because it was counter to what they wanted to hear.
I missed that part. I'm not very good at patting my head and rubbing my stomach. So
I ignore a lot of the comments, not because they're not valuable, but because I have a
hard time like bullshitting and reading at the same time. Yeah. You know, my brain muscle.
My brain was in here repeatedly asking about someone nonstop and then asked about someone
that referred him to that person. Someone from Virginia that dude. So I was just like,
I can't stop.
Yeah. I mean, I don't know. There's and there's aspects to where it's like sometimes people
make a really good assumption that like this is old enough and this is mysterious enough
that it'll never be outed.
Oh, yeah. Yeah. I think most of them that do it think that.
Think that it's old enough and it's in the past enough. And it's I mean, we even saw
it when I won't even mention their name, but we did this that we outed somebody a few years
ago that consistently had he was a younger cat and he consistently had strains that were
from one to two years before they were ever released. Yeah. And you could just tell that
they were just hunting on the forums for early info. Yeah. And then they figured they'd ratchet
it back for a year or two. And then they didn't realize that there was people that were actually
alive and in cannabis then. Yeah. You know.
Yeah. He didn't even that dude didn't even go look at the catalogs to see if he could
get the year right. He's just like, fuck it. I'm going to guess the year.
We don't even talk about that. But when I first saw him on Instagram, I thought that
dude was like in his 50s.
He would have had to have been.
And then I figured out he was like 27. And I was like, what in the fuck? You know? No.
So you know, and yeah, there's a thing. I mean, there's multiple people that have claimed
connection to various seed banks or various people or various this or that. And, you know,
one of the cool things about the internet is that it's linked a bunch of us. Yeah. And
so you get a chance to, you know, you get a chance to ask those people. And then they're
like, hell no. Yeah. You know, and, you know, and so, you know, there's a yeah, someone
picked it up. Skunk 18, fam. Uncle Fester's Skunk 18. Nature fraud.
I noticed someone mentioned about the seeds being federally legal. And I at first I was
like, what? First, that's from a source like a single source. And I'm not 100% sure on
what they posted. But if if cannabis seeds were to be classified as hemp seeds, you'd
still need a hemp license, you need a seed distribution license, and you'd only be distributing
in your state. So no, I think you can send it. I think you can send it out of state.
But I think the issue is, is that you can't just be like, I'm going to send my buddy in
Florida a bunch of seeds and write hemp, and we're good. No, you have to have there
has to be legitimate companies in both states. Because hemp is legal.
They have to be registered in the state of California as a California hemp seed company.
Yes. And you'd have to send it to a registered. Is that how it works? You'd have to be in
the market for them to buy the seed. Because hemp is hemp was put in the farm bill.
Yeah. So it's, it's legal in all 50 states. Yes. It's not a state. It's not a state by
state thing. And there's even there's even hemp transports where you can transport legal
hemp clones from one state to another. Interesting, but you still to this day after
working at the hemp farm, I know that they cannot buy anything not licensed to be sold
in California by a hemp registered. Sure, that might be a different. So yes, technically
it's legal, but there's but it's still like you have to have two hemp businesses. Yes,
to be a legitimate sale between hemp businesses. It's not like I'm going to send a bunch of
hemp seeds legally. We haven't gotten to the point where it's like tomato seeds or something
like that, where it's just like enthusiasts can just trade whatever the fuck they want.
Yeah, I mean, I just ran through this and experienced it with the California hemp laws
and like register trying to register to be a breeder of hemp and stuff like you have
to do go through so many fucking hoops. Maybe that's just California too, but you have to
go through so many hoops to be able to grow hemp in California for sure. Yeah. I mean,
I'm sure I'm sure state state by state, they can put their own regulations on it. Yeah.
But I don't believe that any state can make hemp illegal because it's a federally federally
legal on the farm bill. It's just it's not illegal, but it's heavily regulated. And I
think what happened is, is that all these people in all these different states jumped
into hemp and there wasn't a pipeline for that much CBD or CBG or hemp products yet.
Yeah. People are saying that like Costco doesn't have a license. No, but they're selling hemp.
That's been treated with heat. That's a whole nother different kind of license. Everything
else, once it's been treated with heat, it's unviable. So of course they can sell that.
Yeah. I mean, that's, that's been around forever, but yes, it has. So I don't know. I mean,
there's a, but yeah, there's, there's been, I mean, that's one of the, one of the reoccurring
frauds in cannabis is just like, you know, since new people are in every five or 10 years,
you can recycle the same garbage over and over again, you know? And then people get all mad and
they start coming on and defending themselves. And then the people that told the lie first,
they start to change aspects of it because they realize they've been outed, you know,
and they have to shift what it is, you know? And it's just one of those, it's just one of
those areas that's like, right for bullshit. Yeah. You know? And so maybe, maybe I should,
maybe I should do like, I never do a plug on here, but maybe I should do like a plug, right?
So anytime you see like, quote unquote, my headband cut, or like when I just talked about
the Maui or anything like that, like my entire intention for spreading genetics is for people
to have good weed. Yeah. So, you know, I, I don't, I don't, I'm not making anything off of,
off of, off, off these things. I'm not profiting in any way. I'm not trying to jump into the seed
game. I've had a bunch of friends trying me to, trying to get me to, one of them is on,
is on your screen right now. But I've resisted, you know? And it's nothing, it's nothing against
people that make seed for money or anything like that. Cause obviously I have a bunch of
friends that do so. But like part of passing out, you know, clones and stuff like that to good
friends and especially CSI is that he's got enough of a Matt and CSI and others have enough
of a customer base that you can get good stuff out there that's different. Yeah. And one of the
ways that like, you know, I've said it before, but probably the person that probably the person
that did the biggest guarantee that my Mendo perps will never disappear from the community is Caleb.
Because he fell in love with it and he grew, he crossed it to a shit ton of different things. And
enough people bought that, that even if the mom was to terribly get lost, her children and
grandchildren are fricking everywhere. Yeah. And so that's really, if you want to talk about legacy
with seeds or anything else, you know, anytime anything gets popular, like all of a sudden,
you know, Caleb releases some, some Chem D and LA and some, and some TK in LA, right. That he
reversed and people are finding amazing things in it. And now for the first time ever, all of a
sudden you start to see clone sellers popping up with the cup, you know, and you start to see
fricking, and you start to see, you know, people popping up with, with, you know, crosses that have
it, you know, and all that different types of shit. And so, you know, it's just one of the
things that goes along with popularity. Yeah, you could probably go back six months and before our
year before I started talking about it, and nobody has it. Yeah, nobody was ever talking about the LA
Kush headband before we started talking about it. So nobody was mentioning it. Nobody was mentioning
it. I mean, not that it hadn't existed before. Not that it didn't exist with Mandelbrot seeds 15 years
ago or something like that. But in the last five or six years, it was it was nowhere. Yeah. Right.
And so and now all of a sudden, and really, it only got my name. I didn't even want it to have my
name. People were just trying to differentiate like how what to call what headband. Yeah. And so they
attached it to it. So it's like, people always assume that I'm getting some royalty, or I'm
getting some kind of, you know, aspect, or I'm getting cuts or, you know, payback or whatever.
And they're assuming also sometimes that you verified said cut. Yeah, but I verified it. And
that's why it has it. And so, you know, there's an aspect to it where it's like, the only reason why
I passed it out to a few good friends is just to hopefully have people that get weed that I like a
whole bunch. Yeah, and get that into some hybrids. That's really it. Just so everybody knows, you
know, so if you start seeing, you know, people pop up on clone traders and this and that and everything
else. It's not like I'm the only person on earth that has it, but it's very, very small circle.
And it's most likely a scam. Yeah, at this point, you know, if it becomes incredibly popular,
like everything else, it'll probably leak. And there'll be some, you know, but I mean,
it's really just, oh, somebody, somebody's finding a bunch of fire. I have that.
Yeah, you want it? It's 400 bucks. Oh, I'm breeding with that. I got seeds of it already.
I got that. Yep. And that's the seed name game. And it's the seed name game. And that's it's as
far back as like, as people in Amsterdam not wanting to give out lineage just so their competitors
would all copy that lineage instantaneously. Yeah. So, you know, just for clarification on that,
like it's not and there's nothing wrong with selling seeds or this or that or whatever else,
but it's like, my entire breeding is like not been that's not been I bred for because I like to weed.
Yeah. You know, and I think it makes some people mad that they can't attack me for fucking them
over like breeding herni shit or this or that or whatever, you know, and really when it comes down
to it too is like, you know, a bunch of our friends have been talking to talking about it.
And it's like, if this seed crash leads to a financial crash for a bunch of people,
it might go back to a small handful of enthusiasts making seeds.
And it will be I really think it will be. Yeah, because 95% of the people as you know,
I've gotten into seed breeding in the last five or six years, with the intention that it could
be another revenue stream and it could get their name out there and it could get this and that. And
part of the reason why so much stuff today comes from so few breeders from 20 years ago is because
nobody bothered to breed. Yeah, it wasn't all that common. Yeah, because it was there wasn't money in
it. Yeah, there wasn't a lot of money in it. People think there's a lot of money in it now.
But if there's only a few people making a lot of money. Yeah, there's only a few people. And there's
and you know, and so there was a minute there and I G where people could sell seeds and make their
own private hybrids and like sell them to their followers and all that. And that seems to be
collapsing a little bit right now. Yeah. So we'll see in two or three years, how many of those
people really love making seeds and care about breeding and which ones it was just another
avenue. Yeah, for revenue. And that's there's anything wrong with revenue. You know, nothing
wrong. I have seen a massive the one thing I mean, whether people hate me or like me, I haven't gone
away. And I've seen a massive overturn since I've gotten here and I'm I'm expecting a super massive
overturn because I mean, just in the past five years, you know, thousands of people making seeds
trying to sell that this popped up. And that's gonna get a lot harder. That's the problem too,
is that since most people started recently, you know, they're grabbing what they have
available to them that's recent. So all this breeding is like all the same five or six,
you know, five or six years of the most recent most famous stuff. Yeah. And I, I don't think
that you're going to find anything magically different. Crossing cherry pie and kush.
No, I think that people have tried that. Yeah, over and over and over and over and over ad
nauseam. And you know, and you're probably not going to find anything new using kushmets.
No, and I'm not even dissing those strains. Don't get me wrong. I'm not. I'm just saying
nothing unique to today. It's going to seem unique from it. You know, yeah, I mean, there was there's
a guy commenting there was a bunch of people that had the surprising thing about about the head my
headband cut is not that it's mine or whatever, because I didn't make it or anything, but that
most people won't hold on to anything unless it's making them money right now. Yeah. So there's an
enormous amount of stuff like, you know, 15 years ago, I knew dozens and dozens of growers that had
Urkel and grape ape and GDP and green crack even yeah, and green crack. And then as soon as the
market changed. Six people kept it. Yeah, there was a bunch of people that had headband 15 years
ago. You know, or sours, you know, yeah, I mean, I even had a friend call me the other day,
who's lifelong resident of southern Humboldt. And they're looking for sour cuts. Yeah,
because in the last two or three years, everybody has been popping all you know,
working with all this candy and all this dessert and all this purple and all this stuff.
And now people are starting to ask for it again. And nobody kept it. It's not like it doesn't exist,
they'll be able to get it back again eventually. But maybe they don't get back the same one.
Yeah, that's, that's, that's a big deal. That's why a lot of people don't have her like you said,
Urkel was one of the most grown things up there. Everybody that had more than 10 lights in Mendo
was growing Urkel or grape ape or something like that. Mendo. Yeah, they were all growing purples.
Yeah, you know, and, you know, and then, you know, when sour and kush came in,
everybody dropped it. Yep. When cookies came in a bunch of people dropped
sours. When this came in a bunch of people dropped that. And I do think there's going to be a
renaissance of some of those strains because they're better, in my opinion, than a lot of
the modern cuts. Absolutely. They'll come back, they taste better, they work better,
they're longer lasting, they have more unique eyes, you know, that type of thing. So I think
they will make a comeback. You know, but, you know, there's, I mean, I've, my sour that I have,
I've had this sour since the very early 2000s. I don't know which one it is. Yeah. But it's not
most of the ones I've collected a whole bunch of them. And it's not most of them. I haven't found
one. I haven't found one. I kept hoping I'm like, Oh, maybe it's the Chaco. Maybe it's the Amish.
Maybe it's the Joby. Maybe it's the ECSD. Maybe it's the NYCD. Maybe it's the, you know? Yeah.
And it's really hard as you really can't tell diesels apart by pictures.
No, not, no, they all tend to look super skunky. You really have to grow them side by side and you
really have to kind of smoke them if you want to pick out differences. Yeah. You know? So,
you know, what I know about my sour is that it's old and that we kept it.
And that's about it. You know, the headband got renamed sour by a bunch of people. It got,
you know, it got tossed around, but it was a little bit more finicky than regular sour. And
it could freak out on you sometimes. So a lot of people got rid of it because it wasn't as easy as
the other ones. Yeah. You know, and then people get rid of their cut. And one thing that I've
learned is that if I would have lost my sour cut, even though I have six or seven other different
ones right now, none of them are that one. Yeah. And there's a bunch of people that always talk
about, you know, I tried to get back that thing that I had and I can't find the sour diesel cut
or the blue dream cut or the GDP cut or the Trinity. I can't get it back. It's like this one's
good, but it's not what it is. I, um, Dukie made a good comment. He said the skunk search should
start in a sour S1. And I agree, but I think the places I saw it the most were when you cross two
different expressions of super skunk was where I was seeing it just constantly pop up.
I thought that was, but I think that you can probably find that in a sour S1.
I'm just, you can't make them. The problem is with sour S1s is that like it fails or you get
like 20 seats. Exactly. That's why, that's why I even went with crossing two super skunks that are,
that are different expressions, like a sour and a diesel. But I do agree with them. I think that
diesels are modern skunk. Yes. I think it's one of the most classic examples of a modern skunk
type plant that we have. Yeah. Diesels are modern skunk. And the good thing about the diesels
is that unlike a lot of other things where you could be like, Oh, that one's fake or whatever.
Most of the diesels are pretty fucking nice, man. Yeah. They burn good. They smoke good. They have,
you know, they range in gassy to more headband aromas, stuff like that, but grown well,
taken long enough, dried right. They, they work, you know, um, they work, they're good, you know?
So it's one of my favorite families. So, you know, there's probably like at this point from
my experimentation, there's at least 10 or 12 cuts that are all different from each other that
circulate. Yeah. And of course everyone wants to be like, Oh, mine's the oldest, mine's the original,
mine's the one you remember. That's why you should pay X amount for it. Yeah. In clone form or in
weed form, because I can try it, take, take it back right to 95. You don't know the bros that I
know. You don't have those people haven't been growing since 95. I just, I just, I know the
sense that, that it's like, then it becomes, you know, that's really what it becomes. It becomes
a marketing gig. Uh, but luckily, um, you know, uh, they, a lot of them still exist and they're,
most of them are all good. There's only one or two that I didn't like very much.
Yeah. I liked, I liked, um, uh, your growth, the Amish. I'd never tried it before that.
Oh, that was that those couple of years that I brought it to the party. It was fire.
It was dude. All the diesels you grew were flavorful. They all had that mouth coating
thing in common, but they were all super flavorful outdoor. I'd never really had much diesel outdoor
that was good. And that year it wasn't, it wasn't straight outdoor. It was greenhouse. So I had a
little bit more control. It was sun grown. It was sun grown. I do. I'm a, I'm an indoor grower. So
anything that's not fucking pure indoor to me is outdoor. I mean, somebody mentioned,
somebody mentioned, I'll bring it up. Somebody mentioned Pip's ECSD. Um, you know, Pip gave me
his ECSD to try, uh, as one of my, like, which one of these sours is my sour. And it wasn't my
sour. It's one of them that I liked a whole bunch. And when he came out to the party that year, um,
he was like, dude, I've only grown it this good once or twice. Yeah. You know? And I mean,
some of that's probably, I did a nice job on the growing it, but, uh, you know, sun's real nice
light. Yeah, dude. Love the sun. The sun is a great light. So if you get good weather with the
sun and you get warm, nice days that go into late October, early November, and you can take that
sour late. Most people with sour, the problem that became with sour up here is that as soon as it got
the nose, people would cut it. Yeah. And it probably needed another 10 days to two weeks.
And it's real easy for it to go from being a good nose when you cut it to turning complete
once you try to fucking cure it. I've seen sour go bad so many times just in the cure.
People are asking what AJ's is, you know, I don't, I mean, I know AJ a little bit, but,
um, you know, what AJ's was, what AJ's was in the late nineties and early two thousands
does not seem to be the same thing that he has currently as AJ's. Yeah. I'll say that. Um,
and it's not, you know, and there's even times where I, people are talking about like,
oh, there's this like, like names I've never heard of. Yeah. Right. Like,
oh, now there's the real sour. Now there's that Albany sour. Yeah. Now there's names that like,
never even existed during the forum days or anything like that. But there's new terms that
are popping up the real deal. Yeah. And that people will be like, I'm convinced that this
real deal sour is your headband. Yeah. And I'm like, I don't know. How would I know?
How the fuck would you know? How would I know? How would you know? You know, like, how would
you could give it to me and I'll try it, I suppose, or whatever, but it's like, it's not,
I can't tell you, you know? Um, but like I said, luckily most of these cuts of diesel cuts are
real nice. Yeah. Most of them get you nice and high. Most of them burn well. Um, you know, uh,
yeah. I mean, Amherst sour diesel, right? Fucking, I mean, he's, he's passed now, but
Mandelbrot made that up. Yeah. That was my sour diesel that I gave to him that he crossed into a
bunch of stuff and he just decided that it was from Amherst and added Amherst to it. Cause that's
what he thought. I didn't get it from Amherst, you know? So, but it, it sticks. Yeah. Albany
real, the real sour. That's not a, that's not a leading statement, right? Yeah. Trying to convince
people the origins, which one is it? Oh, the real one. The real one. The original one. You know?
Yeah. The, the original, original, the real original, real verified, you know, actually
sour diesel. I'm just gonna let actually. Yeah. And some of them, you know, it seems like the
Chaco cut is the same thing as the ECSD. But these names are so it's kind of like cush. The names get
so interchangeable that one piece for one person's Diablo OG could be another person's SFE. Yeah.
You know? And, and all that, you know, so you know, and, and really like when I got my sour cut,
it came hopefully labeled sour D yeah. It didn't have any moniker on it. And then I never got,
I never got AJS or res's or Chaco or ECSD because I already had the diesel.
What, what is a plant spanker? So I've never heard of her. Never heard of her. Okay. Keep going.
You know? And so, so yeah, people, people get, people get stuff that gets attached to it.
Yeah. You know, whose is it? Oh, it comes from this dude. So it's his,
whose is it? Oh, it's this one. You know, Amish got named it because it came out of Pennsylvania
and there's a bunch of Amish. That one was from shroomy. And it's also called shroomy diesel too.
So-called shroomy diesel. Yeah. You know? And so there's, you know, there's, there's a lot of stuff
like that where nicknames get added and subtracted. I don't know what the real deal sour is.
I don't know what the Albany sour is, but it's like, as, as more of the story comes out,
I would assume that like Albany is just trying to tie it to Manny and some of the original sour
people. Yeah. And you know, what's funny is like, we know the term from Vondo that they called the
sour that they all preferred the Manny. And we don't really mention that much, but I guarantee
that someone's going to pop up with that motherfucking Manny in two weeks or a week,
you know? You know? Yeah. And I, I mean, there's, and you know, and, and so sometimes one of those
things, just like, just, just like the, the dog isn't really, you know, it's not really,
you know, skunk VA's dog, but he gets on the forums and he's the first guy talking about it.
And which cut is it? Oh, it's the skunk VA cut. Yeah. You know? Oh, it's not so his headband.
Yeah. Cause you're trying to figure out some kind of language to chat about it.
It's Matt riots, 12 inch cock. I get that all the time. Just because I,
yeah, that's just the difference between our measurements and metric and metric, you know,
people getting inches, inches and centimeters, you know, totally confused, inches and centimeters,
but, but yeah, you know, and no, I mean, someone just said, Hey, for the preservation,
I'm not even dissing. I've known a skunk VA for 20, 20 plus years. I'm not dissing him.
That's not my intention whatsoever. I'm just saying he didn't attach his name to it. It was,
it was actually Caleb who attached his attached skunk VA's name to it because that was the source
that it came from. Yeah. And it's like, so, you know, which had, you know, which headband,
you know not so his headband, you know, which, yeah, I hate that one. Oh my God. I don't even
use, I don't even, I don't even like that word hate, but I really despise the murder. And like
the funny thing is like the 56 day, that's what it was told to me when I got it. No six,
but it's not 56. It's more like nine weeks or 10 weeks at least. Someone just said,
son simulator had something to do with sensing me later had nothing to do with the creation of
diesel, but he did make some nice diesel hybrids later on. I do agree with that. He did a cool
strawberry diesel. Yeah. Lumpa headband Lumpa headband is most likely a OG Kush S1 bag seat.
And in that case, Lumpa did name that motherfucker after himself. He did, he did have an ego boost
and name it after himself. That was intentional, but sometimes it's not intentional. Skunk VA,
he didn't intend on it. And actually chem dog got a little hyphy about it because it was like,
technically his cut. And all of a sudden people are calling it skunk VA's cut. Yeah. You know,
I'm kind of embarrassed about my, you know, not so his headband because,
um, you know, I don't really attach myself to stuff like that. Yeah. You know, I didn't name
it not so as Mendo perps, you know, or anything like that. Like, you know, I guess you gotta have,
depends on whether or not you want to have a, an ego attachment to it. Yeah. You know,
but really when it comes down to it, when you get back to breeding, all the stupid names,
all the attachments, all the, all the, everything else, the only thing that people are going to
remember is if it's good weed. Yeah. So you are my phone, my phone's getting down to like 10%.
So let's cover some of that real quick. All right. So there's this thing going around right now that
really irritates the piss out of me. And, um, there's, um, you know, they've been pushing all
this stuff with the Emerald cup judging and all that. And SC labs has come out with this new
classification and they're trying to get rid of using sativa and Indica, which that's a different
discussion. Yeah. I agree. I agree that, that we, that there could be better terms. There could be
better terminology applied to that, but what they want to replace it to, um, is that, and what
they're using for the Emerald cup this year is the most ridiculous bullshit I've ever seen. Yeah. And
the reason why is because they have six categories and I'll try to do them off of memory. Um, but
it's Hayes, Jack and Hayes. Yep. And it's, um, this probably won't be an order. OG and gas. Yep.
Sweet dreams. Sweet and dreams. Sweet and dreams, desserts, exotics. Uh, what's the final one?
Tropical and floral. Tropical and floral, right. Which are two different. And so like that's the
most ridiculous smell and terpene classifications I've ever heard in my life. Exotics. What is it?
What's exotic? I mean, do they go off the exotic mic definition of exotics where runs is an exotic?
Well, I mean, just exotic is like exotic is something that's unusual to you.
Yeah, exactly. That's all exotic. I'd be like, like maybe some Southeast Asians,
I would consider exotics or some wild Africans. But if you live there, it's not exotic. It's
common. Exactly. So how can you have, what is, what is sweets and dreams? Sweets and dreams is
the one that makes the, like no sense to me at all. And then, you know, like, and then there's
an aspect of, okay, so you've got sweets plus dreams and then you've got desserts. Now I get
dessert cookies has a marketing campaign where everything they name is dessert based. Yeah. So
they get the whole, so they have cookies and they have Sherbert and they have flan and they have
this and that bullshit and whatever. And none of it tastes like the specific dessert.
Exactly. It's just, they have a theme. Yeah. Right. I will say that cookies, the original
thin mint, which they can't say anymore because a Girl Scout sued them. But it did have kind of
a doughy flavor. Yeah. I don't get that from any of it. All I taste is OG, but I know people do,
do get that from it. So it's, it's also like how you smell, how you taste different things.
I mean, I can at least, okay. It's got some kind of doughy type aroma to it. You know,
there's some people, but what is exotics? But it was neither thin nor mint. That's right.
What is, what is exotics? What is, what is dessert weed? What is dreams? What is dreams?
What does that even fucking mean? Like blue dream, even Jack and Hayes. Okay. So Jack and Hayes in
California, like, um, you know, that it's mostly terpeneline. Yeah. But that's by no means the only
Hayes aromas in Hayes. In fact, I would put blue dream in the Jackson Hayes category more than I
would like a blueberry category, but I certainly wouldn't make a category for dreams based off one
strain. But you know, it's like, even if so, even like all in back in New York, right. Uh,
where there's a bunch of Hayes cuts that are still pretty famous and kept, you know, they don't,
the best ones they have back there aren't terpeneline. They don't smell like Jack.
They smell like frankincense. They smell like church. They smell, there's a variety of smells.
So hold on, I'm going to respond to one thing. Uh, someone said they are leaning into genetics.
No, they're not. And chemo bar, this is not based on chemo bar, which I think is important. And I
appreciate the effort in advancing the discussion. The thing is this discussion was already advanced
past Indica and sativa and hybrid long ago. And it's, it's only the people that aren't very well
read on the subject that are still there. And you're still there, which is so it's been done
by Robert Clark. Just so everyone knows that when you're judging at the Emerald cup, all these jars
are labeled and no one has any supposedly has any idea what they are. Yeah. They're supposed to
just, just blind smoke and gas and smell and look and share. It doesn't come with, oh, this is white
runs from X and X farm. Yeah. It's just sample number one 48. Yep. You know, and we're going to
name it. Is this, is this dessert to you? Is this dreams? Do you feel dreamy when you smoke this?
Yeah. Is this dream that that still blows my mind? Cause I, you know,
even the, even the, even the OG, even the OG and gas it's like in OG there's piney,
there's earthy, there's so much depth in OG itself. And you can't just combine diesel and cush
into the same category as gassy OGs. What, yeah. What about, what about the,
the, like the Irene ones that are more sweet cereal OGs like that.
And ones that are like lemony and pine soul and ones that are straight earthy mouth coat.
Yeah. So really to me, I'm not trying to, to diss them or whatever, but it, it, it really is a step
backwards. And I really don't want that kind of language to start being used because you know,
what the fuck is dreams? Yeah. What the fuck is dream? Yeah. The thing, my point was like,
I, I, I agree in advancing the conversation because I do not think Indica and Sativa and
hybrid are accurate. However, someone already did that. Like someone pointed out Merlin and,
and Clark came up with the broad leaf dominant narrow leaf drug. I'm sorry. Broad leaf drug
type, narrow leaf drug type. And from there, I mean, you, you know, you can classify it any
other way, but those BLD and NLD. Yeah. BLD and NLD is a great way to do it because it doesn't
talk about the high type. It just talks about the outward expression. And maybe we should,
you know, we're planning on having our buddy crybaby come on one of these shows. And we're
going to have like a terpene and a, and a aroma episode because he can probably talk more
intelligently about those kinds of things than we can. He's got a better language, but really what
this is, it's about communication and language. So when we're talking about our eyes, it's really
easy to be like, this is periwinkle or this is burgundy, or this is orange, or this is,
and you can be like, yes, that is, we can both see it. But when it comes to, to nose, right.
Other than sour, bitter, dead, salty, there's only like five or six things that you actually taste.
Right. Yeah. And then the rest is impression. So people will be like, oh, this smells like pencil
shavings or a fresh car, or it smells like, you know, something common like oranges. So you don't
really describe the smell. You describe something else that it smells like. Yeah. But, but that
classification, what the fuck does dream smell like? What is, what is exotic smell like? You
know, what used to be exotic in Europe? Pepper. Yeah, that's true. Huh? Yeah. Spices from the
far east. They were exotic. You know, you can have exotic, exotic dragon fruit, but if you live
in Hawaii, it's probably not exotic. At one point, you know, mangoes were probably exotic.
Oh, yeah, yeah. Have you had those before? I know. I remember. Yeah. Fresh vinyl, linoleum,
you know, new car smell, all that. And so there's a whole bunch of those things where it's like,
it's really difficult to have the language to talk about smells with people. And I'm bad at it.
And, you know, and I always I always when trimmers and stuff like that, I always try to ask them away
from the rest of the trimmers. What do you smell when you smell this weed? Yeah. And try to get a
bunch of different people's feedback. And then do I see things that people keep talking about?
Yeah, is there a commonality that you can pull out of their impressions?
Because not everybody has the same impression. Like, for instance, how would Europeans know
roadkill? Yeah, right. There is no roadkill in Europe. No, no roadkill skunk. No roadkill skunk.
But that's what they mean when they talk about roadkill. Yeah. Roadkill skunk. I should have
been more specific. But it's like, you're not American. There is no you've never smelled a
dead skunk on the side of the road. Yeah. Unless you came here. Yeah. So, you know, there's an
aspect where it's like, I looked at all this stuff. And you've got all these judges. This
motherfucker don't understand the concepts of monotrophies, triterpenes, sesquiterpenes.
Shut the fuck up. We don't you obviously don't understand the discussion. So go back to the
fucking element. You can talk about terpenes and you can talk about individual terpenes. But like
the language around how those terpenes blend into different aromas.
Yeah. You know, like, just like there's there's only so many primary colors.
Yeah. And you know, terpenes, you can combine two different things and have them smell the exact
same way, no matter what terpenes you're using. You know, like there's certain ways to make
strawberry smells and there's other ways to make strawberry smells that are very similar. The two
people could smell as strawberry. But the problem is not it's not a terpene conversation in that
sense. The level of the level of education amongst people to discuss aromas and cannabis is very
limited, even amongst the educated. Yeah, it's a limited conversation. And so I don't think it's
advanced by and they're all pushing, oh, my God, we're breaking barriers. And here's how we're
judging stuff. And we've got different colored stickers to put on jars, whether it's dessert,
or whether it's haze or whether it's exotic. Yeah. And I just think that's a joke. Yeah,
I think the categories are not related to reality. Yeah. You know, and it's not dissing them.
You know, it's not dissing them. I mean, if anything, it's probably dissing SC labs, maybe.
But it's just another way to try to talk about language and talk about classifications.
But it's not accurate. It's not helpful. Most weed before cookies, nobody said, nobody was like,
oh, my God, all this weed smells like desserts. Yeah. This is like, this is flan at my favorite
Mexican restaurant to a tea. I just exhale flan. No, yeah. I just exhale strawberry shortcake.
No. Yeah. Yeah. Let me see. Yeah. Yeah. I think that'll be a good episode with crybaby.
To Yeah, I mean, I don't know exactly how class will do it. But he's a good buddy of ours.
In the language than I am. He's got a much deeper base of talking about the language and the
terpenes and stuff like that. Yeah. Yeah. So we're gonna do Matt's phone's gonna die. I got
some stuff I got to take care of and whatnot. So we're gonna do a little bit shorter. Normally,
we try to take it to like an hour and a half, two hours every Friday. We're gonna cut it a little
short today for a variety of reasons. But we just kind of wanted to do no matter what we wanted to
kind of bring people together on Friday night, bullshit about different subjects with cannabis,
give people things to talk and think about. And so Matt, if you want to do any plugs,
oh, yeah. Go to Google, type in breeder syndicate, Patreon. If you want to join the Patreon,
we have our discord where we talk about all this stuff incessantly because we're fucking
nerds. That's what we do. And it's what we love to do. We got our Hawaiian life stuff dropping.
And of course, I did not take a picture of all the hybrids like I was going to and print out.
But there are some really awesome hybrids that CSI did with the Hawaiian light stuff. And that's
going to be dropping probably this weekend. But expect to see some old rare shit in there,
including the bomb threat bubble, which hasn't been released in ages in any hybrids.
No, that's a good one. Yeah, that's a fucking wild one. I've grown that one myself. It's a fun.
It's a fun one. Yeah. But anyway, you know, and you can always reach out to us. You can always
give us you can always hit us up on Instagram or on discord and give us ideas. Hey, I'd love for
you guys to talk about this. I'd love to learn more about whatever. We're super open about that.
We just want to bullshit on a weekly basis about cannabis and keep people interested. So thank you
so much. Right. Tico dot com Hawaiian lights up to open pollination is up right now and tomorrow
are the fights. For those of you on the discord, we're going to get together for the fights.
It's going to be major awesome one. So yep. Cheers, everybody. Have a great night.
