Welcome to Breeder's Syndicate, where we explore the history of a clan-destined scene
through the eyes of the folks who lived it.
I'm Matthew, owner of Riot Seeds.
I'll occasionally be joined by my co-host NotSoDawg, breeder and grower from Mendocino.
Welcome to the underground.
Yeah, I mean I can say in a general sense I just went on a mission looking for pockets
of old things.
Yeah, and you found some pockets of old things.
I did.
Yeah.
I did.
Yeah.
So, you know, and that's, it's kind of interesting too because it's like one of the things about
weed that I find really interesting, and we'll talk about this as part of like the clone
thing tonight, is that how like brokers and the demand from the public dramatically changes
what people grow.
Yeah.
Right?
So in California or Oregon or Washington are these places that are like really sort of
like in tune or can't sort of came about with medical or legal earlier.
There was a lot more rapid change in what people grew because of what people demanded.
And so in some cases now, you know, you have to go and look for some of these, I don't
want to call them backward states because that's rude, but like states that were slower
to adopt, you know, some of this stuff, which meant that people could grow things that were
a lot older and they still worked really well for the crew that they were giving them
to.
Yeah.
Because there wasn't a lot of competition with the new new as it were.
There wasn't, there wasn't pressure to change.
Yeah.
Exactly.
And really, you know, that it kind of ties into what we're talking about tonight because
pressure to change and a desire to make your life easy and give the broker what they want
is what kind of makes old cuts disappear.
Yeah.
You know.
And that's what we're seeing today.
And we've talked about the last few episodes.
I mean, if you were told 10 years ago that a sour, real sour diesel could be kind of
hard to acquire depending.
Yeah.
No one would believe it.
Yeah.
I'm actually shocked that lately today, keep people keep telling me that the forum cut
of cookies is becoming hard to source, which blows my mind.
Yeah.
I mean, it's one of those things where, you know, I've mentioned this before, but every
five or 10 years, weed reinvents itself.
Yeah.
I mean, Matt and I looked at, I have a friend up here who got a freezer of somebody who
I know everyone talks about freezer beans or whatever.
Yeah.
But my friend got a freezer of old beans from people that was someone that was retiring
and kind of getting out of the game.
Right.
And instead of being like from the ancient 80s or SSSC or shit that people claim, it
was almost all from 2008 to 2012.
Yeah.
It was a pretty cool era.
I reached out to Matt because I was busy having kids and doing a bunch of sit-ins and that
was sort of like really your prime time.
Yeah.
Right.
When you were like really, really in tune with what was going on.
Yeah.
And it was surprising to Matt and I looking over it, just how ancient a lot of those things
were and how 99% of it was unavailable.
Yeah.
Even especially the Rascal stuff, like at the time was really hot, selling really well,
a lot of the Femme stuff.
And it was our main competition at the time as it were for Femme stuff.
And looking at it, a lot of that stuff's hard to grab now and it's great stuff.
Yeah.
A lot of it.
And that's only from, you know, 14, 12, 14 years ago.
Yeah.
Which doesn't seem that long to me.
It's not actually that long.
Because, you know, traumas are very current.
It always feels current.
So that's what's interesting is like you get back to 10, 12 years ago and it's almost
impossible to find a lot of seed stock from then.
And then you go back 10 more years and it's harder and you go back to the 90s and oh my
God.
And you go back to the 80s and it's almost legends.
Yeah.
You know, which isn't really all that long, but the way prohibition works and the way
the market works.
So, you know, there's people, there might be people in various states that are slow
to adapt that have been rocking the same thing for 20, 25 years.
Yeah.
Because it's worked for them.
Right.
And the little customer base that they have, that they, you know, that they give their
access to is super stoked on it.
And so you almost need those pockets.
You know, because like, you know, when we talked about the Purple episode, every big
grower I knew ran some kind of GDP, Urkel, MendoP, you know, great, something hybrid.
And then fast forward 10 years and like six people held on to it.
Yep.
That's how it goes.
And I've had hundreds just in my little area.
Yeah.
You know, and yeah, there's someone that's talking right now about, oh, I'm sick.
It has to be Purple.
You know, the Purple craze was like, I would say it was like 03, 04, 05, maybe a little
bit of 06.
And then it went away for 15 years.
Yeah, it went away for quite a while.
15, 18 years or something like that.
And then now all of a sudden it's back.
And people are just as annoyed now as they were back then.
Yeah.
You know, although back then I would say one of the biggest things about the Purple craze
that I don't like was it was really the first time where a lot of diversity got lost because
people just wanted what the brokers wanted to buy.
And so they were growing all these different things and, you know, and then all of a sudden
people are like, well, I want Purple.
Yeah.
Yeah, a lot of beautiful, beautiful green, lovely strains went by the wayside for the
Oracle days.
And we're going to talk about like old clones a lot today.
And that was really one of the eras that kind of ushered in like the everybody wants to
grow the most popular thing at the time.
Yeah.
Because pre Purple craze of like, you know, early 2000s, the amount of diversity that
worked for the small and the medium market was pretty incredible.
If it was good weed, it probably sold.
Unlike today, where you do see a lot of really good weed go by the wayside for stuff that
maybe we would all agree isn't as what we would consider kind as some of the others.
Oh, somebody just said, oh, six is when I first went to reggae on the river and the
Kusty kids had got Purple.
Got Purple shirts on?
I went to reggae on the river from, I don't know, probably like 95 to 03 or 04.
I think 03 was like their 20 year anniversary, maybe or something like that.
And after going for 10 years, I'd seen most of the acts I wanted to see and it had gotten
kind of a little hectic.
Yeah, I kind of felt like it was more like have a bunch of city kids show up on the river
and hope nobody dies.
Kind of vibe.
Can you imagine reggae on the river in Bakersfield?
How that would go?
Well, there's no river.
There's a river here, but we didn't have, we have the Kern River here, which is big,
but we didn't have that.
What we had was called Reggae Fest.
And it was just, I started playing those shows in about 06 because we had the reggae band
going on at the time, but it was very different than like the steel drum type reggae that
a lot of people had.
It was just phenomenal to see what Bakersfield offers in terms of reggae fans.
It was pretty cool.
I mean, I never got to go to reggae on the river myself.
That's a tangent, but I will talk about it just a couple of times because when I was
coming out here in the mid 90s, as a Midwestern kid, reggae on the river has like two extremely
clear memories where I really realized that like the Emerald Triangle in California was
a different place than where I was from.
There was dready kids walking around reggae in 95, 96.
Back then it was still a two day weekend festival.
It was a lot more locals that hadn't had like as many like city kids and stuff coming up
from the bay yet.
But people were walking around with five gallon buckets with spears in them.
And you could buy a spear, like a spear of weed, a top.
Oh, I thought you meant spears to throw.
Not like that kind of spear.
But I mean, like, for me, as like someone who comes from like a world where it all had
to be hidden, walking up and down the lot with a bunch of stems sticking out of a top
and pulling out an 18 inch top to sell.
That's fucking awesome.
That was pretty incredible.
And like where reggae used to be, it's like where the river is, you can like look up and
like the 101, the highway 101 is way up there.
Right?
Yeah.
And I remember I was like sitting in a seat on the riverbed and I was pulling bongs.
And I looked up and there was a highway patrol looking right at me.
And so coming from the Midwest, like if you make eye contact with a cop and you're doing
drugs, like it's not a good scene.
And he waved to me and then just went back to what he was doing.
And I was like, literally ready to like throw the bong in the river and run into the crowd.
Because that was like my training, like what I, you know, like it was time to run.
And he just gave me a wave and went back to what he was doing.
And I was like, Oh my God.
You know?
There you are.
You're back.
Yeah.
Oh my God.
So yeah, I mean, those were like two seminal moments of reggae on the river that for most
people might not be that big of a deal.
But it just showed like how different it was, how like there was a bubble that we lived
in.
You know?
Yeah, that was a bubble.
That was a bubble.
So I went through and tonight we're going to be might be joined by someone.
I'm not sure we talked about it, but as stoners will do, we just decided that we'll see if
he shows up, you know, because, you know, plans are plans and that's rough even for
me.
So we'll see if this person shows up.
But I went through the Can of Bible 3 because I remembered that there is a great list in
here of the late 90s, early 2000s clones.
And I thought it would be fun to go through this list together.
And there's some that I added in, there's some that I took out of their list because
they really weren't that relevant in terms of anything.
They just happened to be things that he was aware of that he threw in the middle.
But we got it all together.
Bryn even made it pretty with a fish.
And yeah, whenever you want to start going through it, we can start going through it.
Jason, someone just asked, Jason is not the guest.
No, no one's talked to him.
But, you know, who knows, you know, I used to be pretty good friends with him a long
time ago.
He would definitely be a character to have on one day.
Yeah, for sure.
In that regard, you know, yeah, it would be very interesting to have on.
Super opinionated.
I don't maybe he's mellowed in the last bit.
But, you know, he definitely has highly opinionated.
He definitely, oh, that's mellow.
Yeah, he was super opinionated in person.
Some people that drove him absolutely nuts.
I can relate.
I do that.
I really liked him and I liked like his vibe and what he was trying to do.
Yeah, yeah, sure.
But it's hard because like when you're when you're so certain about something and you
don't leave room for other people's opinions.
You can secretly offend a lot of people.
Which Matt knows nothing about.
I wouldn't.
I wouldn't.
I'm very open.
He's not he's not.
He's not into that.
But but yeah, you know, they.
So just as a general sense, before we before we, you know, dive into the list a little
bit, I will say that, you know, like I was mentioning earlier, when there wasn't much
weed, most weeds sold.
Yeah, because it was better than Mexican.
That was sort of like the standard.
Like if it was better than green or brown Mexican, it's sold.
And then as the thing matured and like and and fads and waves started happening, certain
popular cuts started getting, you know, more in demand than others.
But there was this period, I would say, from the mid 90s to the mid 2000s, that may have
been the greatest diversity era we've seen.
And that's where most of these cuts that Matt and I are going to talk about come from, because
they came at a time when there was a lot of seed banks starting to operate in Amsterdam.
And there was a lot of genetics starting to get traded around friends.
And almost all good weed had a place.
Yeah.
And it hadn't really it hadn't really been like, oh, you don't have sour.
I don't want to buy it.
You don't have Urkel.
I don't want to buy it.
You don't have gelato.
I don't want to buy it.
That hadn't happened.
And that meant a lot of people could grow what they liked, pick what they liked, and
form a little vibe on it.
Yeah.
And I would honestly say that's probably all that stuff that we're about to chat about
is probably the backbone of today.
You know, I would also put this in the era before OG Kush was readily available in seed
for everyone.
That's when I noticed the big change in whole collectives being just OG Kush.
We want OG or fucking nothing.
You know, right before that was readily available for everyone.
I remember I remember walking into a club in LA.
Yeah, seeing literally no exaggeration, like 25 different types of Kush.
Yeah, yeah.
And it like, we're like, it's based on it.
And you're like, well, like, that's all your that's that's the whole thing.
Yeah, you know, like, there's nothing else.
The reason why there's financial reasons that happened.
There was, you know, there's various economic indicators that push all those things.
Yeah.
You know, like when I first started coming out to Mendo, it was very, very common to
buy mixed phenos pounds.
Yeah, it was all the same strain.
Right.
But they were they would blend the different plants together.
Yeah, it didn't have to be like, I have a 50 pack of just this one cut.
That hasn't started yet.
But then eventually it became it had to be this one thing.
Yep.
And every time that's happened, even though the purples I love the Urkel and the Mendo
P and stuff like that are pretty close to my heart.
And I love sour diesel.
And most of the sour diesels that people argue about right now, whether they're real or not,
or most of them are good smoke.
Yeah.
I mean, the bushes are excellent smoke.
I'm not as big a fan of cookies, but you know, like, you know, they're all good.
Yeah.
They just they just came at a cost of everything else.
A big cost, a big cost of everything else.
So I don't know.
I don't have the list in front of me.
You have in front of you.
I don't know how you want to keep it in some kind of entertaining format.
All right, I will just start naming and then let me know if you have any memories.
Somebody said the Aota.
I don't I'm not familiar with it.
What is that?
Aota is A-O-T-A.
And it was all of the above.
Okay.
We used to rock the Aota in the early 2000s.
I don't know who mentioned it.
But the Aota was really tasty weed.
So whoever mentioned that, super cool that you popped that up.
Yeah, that's something I didn't even know about.
I don't think I don't think I've seen the Aota since probably.
I don't know.
I don't know when the last time I saw the Aota.
But we had it in our crew.
I don't even remember where it came from, to be honest.
But it was it was it was it was good weed.
It was it was fruity.
And it was it was really tasty.
Okay, so I keep remembering little ones to add in as I'm going through this, but I'll
start at the top.
Afgui, which predictably was going to be one of them.
Do you have experience with the Afgui?
You know, a lot of people like the Afgui.
I sort of thought it was blandish.
You probably smoked that nasty ass outdoor version.
I mean, I don't know.
You can talk about it then because I don't have the greatest memories of the Afgui.
So it was spelled so many different ways.
People have spelled like Afgui, Afgui.
Some people think that Gui is Afgui, which goes from Gui Breeder.
I don't know.
I don't have enough experience with Gui Breeders Gui.
The Afgui I was familiar with was a more I wouldn't say short, but yes, it was it was
more squatter than most plants people are used to dealing with.
It had this beautiful, almost watermelon, blueberry type turf that was very hard to
describe and it was true breeding for it.
Almost everything I crossed it to or that it was crossed in took on the Afgui smell.
And I could see how people could get very overwhelmed by it because it's very distinctive.
You could also describe it as like cantaloupe-y berry.
It was it was unique and I tended to love it.
It would pass on beautiful resin traits.
It had good potency, not the best yield, but I think overall it's one of my faves off this
list.
Oh, there you go.
I was going to diss it slightly because I know I just saw a bunch of low midzy, before
we called things midzy, midzy outdoor.
Yeah.
And I would think it could be very midzy outdoor.
It was not that it was not.
I never saw the greatest examples, but then there you go.
You know?
Yeah.
How about I have no experience with real Albert Walker, but I did get the Dago fake Albert
Walker.
Have you grown Albert Walker?
I don't know that I grew the real Albert Walker, but I do think that was a pretty flavorful
and potent cut.
Yeah.
I know Fletch has a lot of familiarity with it.
Fletch would be an excellent person to chat about the history of it.
That's one that like none of my old crew really had any access to it.
You know?
Yeah.
I mean, I had a line that might have been growing it for a bit, but it wasn't too much.
Okay.
Now, this is one that a lot of people are familiar with from, oh, what the fuck?
Dutch Flowers.
Their work with it.
The Blue Dot.
Oh, I know there was two.
The Blue Dot.
I am familiar with that stuff.
There was this guy.
My God, does he go by Crunch Bubble?
There was a guy on the forums.
You could probably search for him or whatever.
And the Blue Dot was one of the big strains that used to get pushed through, grown in
Oakland a lot.
And it was pushed through one of the early dispensaries that we called the Third Floor.
That's what it was, Third Floor.
Third Floor, which was a pretty famous dispensary back then in the East Bay.
A lot of people got their purple cuts from the Third Floor.
They were very tied into my area to Humboldt and Mundo and stuff like that.
They got a hold of like the Granddaddy and the Urkel and stuff like that.
And yeah, Crunch Bubble from IC Mag.
He used to blow up tons of Blue Dot back in the day.
It was a nice cut.
I never ran it personally, but it was one of those like Bay Area specials.
It really got rocked a lot.
I think it was part of Blowfish, if I remember correctly.
That guy used to send it.
He had like 40 lighters or whatever.
Early warehouses with like, do you remember like all the old like skinny rectangle sunlight
hoods?
Oh yeah.
With the single ended 600 watt Hortilux.
Hell yeah.
And like the trays and all that.
That was like cutting edge at the time.
But he had some pretty good sized scenes or whatever.
And there was like a huge demand for Blue Dot.
So I don't have a bunch of personal experience growing it, but I mean, I would get bags of
it on occasion going to the Bay.
And it was definitely like, it was a Bay Area classic, I would say, for a period of years.
Someone just said, I do think that Green Crack is a pheno of Skunk One.
You know, at least it's heavily in there.
Yeah.
Put it that way.
Yeah, I could see that.
Definitely.
The mango, that loud mango turf I usually associate with Skunk One type stuff as it
is.
Blue motherfucking Dream.
Blue Dream.
So Blue Dream is one of those things that has a bad reputation.
Mostly because anything that could get eight to 10 pounds, you know, let's say five to
10 pounds, be a little bit more generous.
Anything that could get five to 10 pounds outdoor reliably got blown up in my neck of
the woods.
And so if you, to me, if you grow Blue Dream in like a little pot and you get like a four
to eight or 10 ounce plant or something, it's really flavy and really pretty wheat.
But most people's opinion of Blue Dream is this giant outdoor sort of B grade, maybe
poorly dried, you know, rock hard buds, the turps aren't really there.
But you know, it kind of got famous because, you know, people used to go with Blue Dream
billionaire, right?
Where back when weed was worth a lot, you could put out a 99 Blue Dreams and get 700
pounds.
Yeah.
That's a lot.
That's sweet shit.
Yeah.
And there's this run with Blue Dream, Green Crack, even my Maui a little bit where it's
really big yielding.
And then most people smoke the big yielding stuff and don't smoke like the little more
carefully grown, nicer versions.
So their memory of it is just the big blown out, crazy nugs that are B grade.
So another thing that I remember with Blue Dream during that era was that a lot of people
when it first popped off were growing one cut.
There was one Blue Dream cut that was going around and it was pretty well passed out.
Like a lot of people had this cut, was being blown out of collectives and it was pretty
damn good for the time.
It was very resinous, had good potency, good yield, didn't mold up too easy.
None of the stuff that, you know, would normally keep stuff down.
But after that big, huge first push, seed lines were released named Blue Dream by Emerald
Triangle Seeds.
I think HSO put out a Blue Dream and those quickly, quickly were picked up and run.
And those cuts were passed as Blue Dream and the original cut was quickly drowned out by
other blueberry haze type combos.
I do think that that thing that Matt just described is actually a common thing that
can happen to certain strains where a strain gets named something.
And then it gets named and put into a seed line.
And then there's all these phenos floating around that aren't the original cut that made
it famous.
Yes.
You know, so there was a bunch of different Blue Dreams.
It was supposedly blueberry by some kind of haze.
It was a super, the original cut was super silver haze, crusty DJ short blueberry.
Yeah.
And so, you know, they, but you know, like I said, if you grew, if you grew like a little
six or seven ounce plant of that thing and you're light depth or your greenhouse or your
indoor, it was really nice weed.
Yeah, it was, I like it.
I still like it.
Our buddy Pat works with it currently.
He did the Blue Dream train wreck hybrid for all of us older heads.
That's like phenomenal and cool.
Yeah.
I mean, yeah, I was just going to say that, you know the first time I really showed my
face on any of these things was when our buddy CSI asked me to do an event that he
was throwing up in Humboldt.
And I went and I was on a panel with him and you know, Mean Gene and Kevin Jodry and just
different folks, you know.
And he talked about like, you know, train wreck for Northern Humboldt was one of like
the first named cuts, you know, the wreck.
The wreck, you know.
So there's a lot of legends with the wreck because it was, you know, it was, I don't
know if Santa Cruz original haze, that's a whole different movie.
Blue Dream is super silver haze is a much, much changed child of haze.
I see.
I think what Select Genetics is referring to is, again, there were several different
seed lines, unknown, undisclosed haze.
So most people would agree that Blue Hen from, what are they called?
Kentucky Sea, I can't remember off the top of my head.
But Blue Hen was the super silver haze 98 blueberry, probably where it was selected
from.
But it was also widely grown other than that under the name Blue Hen as well.
But the very first Santa Cruz cut of Blue Dream, which still exists is a super silver
haze cross.
That's the one we're referring to specifically.
And it's tasty.
I think everybody likes the high.
And if you grow it too big, it definitely is shitty.
But I think that's true of a lot of weed.
There's a sweet spot of yield and quality.
Yeah.
Bluegrass seed.
There you go.
Thank you, Cameron.
Bluegrass seeds.
Yeah.
There's definitely a sweet spot.
It's not all the same sweet spot with strains, but there's definitely a point of diminishing
returns as you get bigger and bigger plants where it just doesn't give you as nice of
weed.
Yeah.
So next would be bubble gum.
Oh, bubble gum.
I did.
I had a lot of experience with a lot of other bubble gums in the seed line.
But this specific clone, I didn't get until a few years ago.
And I find it phenomenal.
It's an amazing breeder.
It's mold resistant.
This specific cup that CSI and Pip and all those guys use came by in 1995 from the cup.
I believe it was bought the same year that it won the cup.
So that's what goes around.
It's a selection from serious seed to bubble gum.
The bummer for me, it's a great breeder.
It's very frosty.
It's fairly potent.
I wouldn't say it's up there with the best of the best, but it's got a good little punch.
The disappointing thing about it to me is that it smells very strongly of bubble gum
turps.
But the flavor does not translate for me.
Not even a little bit.
It smells like you're smelling Big League Chew.
But it doesn't feel like you're chewing Big League Chew when you smoke it.
But it's a great breeder.
It's super consistent.
It's one of the most mold resistant things out there.
It's a cool plant.
Yeah.
Arrowhead Hemp Farms, yes, Indiana is serious seeds.
It is a serious seed selection.
Though a lot of people put the Indiana bubble gum as the mother of serious seeds that they
use, but that's not the case.
It was actually a selection from their seed line.
And if we want to go even back further, Adam Dunn has this whole thing about where it came
from.
Neville felt like they just stole it from working with him and renamed it.
It was some combination of stuff that he was already working on.
So there's dispute over where it came from.
And that happens a lot where people try to obscure origins.
Yeah, definitely.
That's a common thing.
All right.
I see Bull Rider in the comments.
Everybody wants to hear Bull Rider.
I hate to break it to you guys.
Bull Rider was before my time.
It was before my time.
By the time I got to San Diego, Bull Rider was RIP, fucking nothing.
The only thing you could find was Afghani Bull Rider, which there is no proof, evidence,
anyway that Afghani Bull Rider is related to the original Bull Rider.
It's very different.
Old Betsy is said to be a sister to the original Bull Rider.
We still have, Old Betsy still exists and is still held and run by multiple friends
and crew.
And it's supposed to be a sister of the original Bull Rider.
I don't know that Matt or I know anyone that has original Bull Rider that we believe.
Not that we're sure of.
But Old Betsy exists.
And who knows?
Just outside of our experience.
It definitely could exist, but I haven't seen it.
A lot of people made a lot of claims about it recently, but none hold up.
And most are based on the Afghani Bull Rider.
Maybe I should say something just real quick.
One time when I was in Chicago, before I moved to California, I saw some bubble gum that
they had bought from out there and brought back.
It had hot pink hairs and was lime green and was super gorgeous.
I never really saw it again.
I only saw it a few times.
Who knows who was growing it back then?
But I did see a very cool version of it a long time ago when Sirius first released it.
Yeah.
So, yeah, we went through Bull Rider, bubble gum, Banana OG.
Do you have any, I know you've grown Banana OG.
Do you have any memorable experiences with it?
I do actually think that, you know, a lot of these things, especially in dessert and
fruit names now annoy the fuck out of me because they have no relation what they're marketing.
They have no relation to whatever they name them after.
But I do think Banana OG does have a little bit of banana terp to it.
Yes.
You know, I will say that.
I will say it does have, I get a banana sense when I smoked it.
It's an odd OG.
I don't really know what to make of it.
If it was an organ kid or somebody like that made it famous, it's not really my background
on that one.
So Banana OG came from a pack of OG'ers Kush, his original release of what he wanted to
be the OG Kush seed line.
No, Chiquita Banana is not the original.
I came way later and it's a rename.
So he got it as the OG Kush, the clone that he had.
And he got, he selected a male from some, I think it was an indoor 6040 from Sagar Matha,
which meant 60 Sativa 40 Indica.
I remember that line.
Yep.
Yeah.
He popped those and I've asked Tony from Sagar Matha what it was and he said it was just
something he bought in bulk from someone.
He didn't know.
It was just labeled 6040.
So he knew exactly what it was.
So anyways, whatever was in the 6040 kicked whatever would breed truth for these banana
terps.
So he released OG'ers Kush expecting it to be a good version of OG Kush.
And that's where people found this beautiful clone that was very banana like.
And later on, you know, as people pop more seeds, more people found different clones
they would call Banana OG.
There's a one that circulates right now that most people have is the same one and it's
very good.
There's a few more that are more laffy taffy, like artificial banana type.
And that's what you smell.
I've smelled one banana hybrid from Pico, our buddy, and it smelled like fucking banana
bread, like just dead on like that banana cinnamon.
It's one of the most amazing banana smelling things that I've ever smelled.
So I'll throw in something that's kind of related.
You know, before there used to be in the in the 40s, 50s and 60s.
The banana, the banana that everyone ate was a different banana, you know, that you eat
then you eat now.
Yeah.
And it was destroyed by root fungus.
Right.
So it had a much different flavor than the current banana that everybody is grown up
with.
But what's interesting is kind of how banana candy tastes a little different than you would
expect it to taste like it's banana, but it like it's kind of you think of it as like
candy, chemi banana.
That flavor was developed off the first bananas that were commercially sold in America.
Yeah.
And they didn't change it.
You know, the catch.
Yep.
There you go.
Yeah.
Cavendish.
So most banana candy is based on the flavor of the Cavendish banana, not the modern banana
that everybody is used to eating.
And, you know, I actually owe a great deal of my career to the banana OG and some of
Oregon kids stuff and Tony from Sacred Math is stuff.
It still lives on today and a lot of strains that I work with and the others work with.
So banana OG is the shit.
I think I like it, though.
I will say in a lot of outcrosses, depending on what you cross it to, there are phenols
that are just straight cardboard and they're hard to dodge.
But that clone stands the test of time, I think, for sure.
It's a it's a good one.
It kind of got buried a little bit and it got lost amongst other things.
But it's it's a it's a cool, unique turf and it had a nice buzz.
Yeah.
So, you know, here's a fun one that that probably is is actually several different different
clones or seed lines.
Hold on one second.
These guys are correct.
Actually, the Cavendish replaced the I was off the top of my head.
They're talking about which banana cultivars existed and I got it reversed.
So the Cavendish was the first and the Cavendish is now and it replaced this thing.
I don't know how to pronounce it, but it was like gross mackerel or something like that.
So yeah, someone keeps asking about the Chiquita.
That was the Chiquita banana was popped from the platinum banana OG Kush, which was a hybrid
of Bubba Kush, something in banana OG.
And it came I mean, that was so much later because it was from my work and it was later
like seven years after I made the platinum banana OG and my work was so much later after
Oregon kid did.
So now it's they're very different.
But the Chiquita banana is based on it, but has a lot more in it.
OK, what's next?
Cat piss again.
Many, many different clones.
I think I saw several in San Diego called cat piss that were very different from each
other.
Some I didn't smell any cat piss in.
Some people did.
What's your experience?
Well, I'll say a couple of things.
One is that, you know, I think that it's one of those aspects of smell that people relate
stuff to.
So I think it's like I think it's like I think it's like how some people perceive certain
kinds of terpeneline.
Yeah.
Right.
And since terpeneline is kind of a common aroma that pops up, I think there's more than
one cat piss.
And I do believe we're going to have a Shabbat on the on the program next week or in the
next couple of weeks.
And so we could probably save the deep dive into cat piss for him because that is one
of his specialties.
And he knows an enormous amount about the history and he's tried all the different ones.
There was the San Diego cat piss.
There was a Pittsburgh cat piss.
There was different types.
Yeah.
You know, but you know, so there was a few different names.
Yeah.
One second.
I'm bringing in someone if you want to see how he's doing.
All right.
What is cheetah piss?
Who fucking knows?
Other than having the name piss in it.
You know, that's marketing.
That's like a cookie team coming up with marketing names.
He never really has any names that tie to what this strain is actually like.
Yeah, they definitely have a team of marketing people deciding what to call things and what
kind of art goes with it and what the packaging is going to look like and what the mylars
are going to be.
So they're a very new school type of approach to naming strains.
So it's all good, Gene.
You can text if you have time.
What's next?
Someone asked if any SSH smells like cat piss.
Yes.
I mean, that's a great example of terpeneline, cat pissy smells.
I have argued if you go and read like a bunch of Neville's old posts on hazes, he'll talk
about when you inbreed haze, all you get is a bunch of cat piss.
Yes.
And when we inbreed haze, all we get is a bunch of terpeneline.
And as any breeder will tell you, once terpeneline becomes the dominant smell in your strain,
boy, is it hard to get other smells to pop up.
Yeah.
You know, it is very, very, very dominant.
Yeah.
Now there's different terpenelines.
They're not all the same.
Some are sweet, some are astringent.
You know, some are this or that or whatever.
There's definitely a range in terpeneline there.
But yeah, whenever Neville talks about cat piss, I think of terpeneline.
Yeah.
And I do too.
I mean, I know there's Afghanis that are acrid and ammonia type.
And that's what I used to think of when people would say pissy.
I would think of the acrid ammonia, uric type smells.
But I think a lot of people think of terpeneline.
And I just, my nose does not pick up that piss scent from terpeneline.
And then when you, you know, the other part of it is like once you, when you grow or you
smoke C5 or something like that, and it's just a terpeneline monster.
And he refers to it as very cat pissy.
Then obviously that's what his mind goes to.
Yeah.
You know?
So.
Okay.
Next, the cheese.
The cheese.
So the cheese has a pretty cool story.
It might be the oldest skunk one pheno that's spread around.
It's supposed to be from the late 80s.
It's supposed to be popped by sort of like a bunch of, would you call them punk anarchist
squatters?
Supposed to be.
I don't know much about the crew.
I thought they were supposed to be ravers or some electronic shit.
Yeah.
Same thing.
You know?
I mean, anarchists, you know, like punks, ravers, underground weirdos listening to unpopular
music.
Yeah.
You know?
Yeah.
Type of thing.
But skunk, but it was a pheno of skunk one.
And most skunk one is citrus or floral, sometimes grape.
Never skunk.
And the rarest would be probably the kind of a funky cheese off aroma.
And so there's a sister of it supposedly called psychosis, which is not nearly as circulated.
You know, the English are all big on it because it's one of the few things that actually originated
from their island.
Yeah.
The blues livers, psychosis.
And there's another one too that they always used to talk about.
And I'd really, I'd love to grow them one day, but I have never been where I could get
it from a source with provenance.
I've only gotten it from like seed lines or, you know.
And it's one of those cuts that different people give different names to like the bright
side cut or the this cut or the that cut, you know, that kind of thing.
But it's basically a classic skunk one.
Yes.
Yeah.
You know?
The other thing I will say about is I learned a lot from that cut.
A huge amount from that fucking cut.
I learned that it was one of those cuts that like early on growing it, it was really foot
funky cheese for me.
So as I got it later and it was fruity and sweet, I was like, no way, this is a fucking
fake cut.
Fuck this thing.
This is not what I remember.
And it was one of those cuts that really taught me.
Yeah.
Yeah.
People are talking about a suicide cut.
There's like any, like a lot of old famous strains.
You know, I'll use a different example.
I mean, in my lifetime, I've watched the chem dog get called chem dog.
We shortened it to dog.
Our buddy came online and it became the skunk VA cut.
It got called the chem 91.
You know, different cuts that are the same.
The same cut can get different nicknames and different, different things over time with
different crews.
Yeah.
You know, Exodus, suicide, bright side.
All these different things.
They're all, you know, there was like a small little family that came out of this late 80s
English scene.
You know, so and, you know, it's skunk one.
It breeds really well for calyx, you know, better.
It improves leafiness, makes less leafiness, makes long running colas.
It's mildly potent, I would say.
I'd say most skunks are in like the mid teens in terms of THC, you know, gets big, a little
metallic, maybe.
I don't know.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Someone mentioned one that we actually, I should have put on the list, but I didn't.
And that's Blackberry.
Did you ever have any experience with Blackberry up there?
Not Blackberry Kush, but just Blackberry.
We had more with Blackberry Kush, although I always thought it was just Blackberry and
I think people added Kush to it because at the time all these brokers wanted Kush.
So it's like, here's your purple Kush.
Yeah.
The original Blackberry was a lot different from the Blackberry Kush.
The Blackberry Kush was a white rhino Bubba hybrid from Oregon Kid.
The original Blackberry was from a dude named Soma Blaze, if I remember correctly, Scott
Soma Blaze.
And he ended up passing away.
Naboo ended up kind of carrying on the torch of it.
And you know, there were a lot of beautiful pictures.
I think in one of these can of Bibles, if I can pull it up super fast, has a beautiful
picture of it.
There's a real famous picture of it inside of a jar of like Blackberry preserves that
was really famous of it.
At the time there wasn't a lot of colored weed, so it stood out very much so.
And it was used a lot in a lot of the hybrids that were famous from that point on because
it bred true for whatever its purple traits were.
For a long time, you know, people thought it was different from the Mendo perps.
But I think later on people realized that there was a good chance it was a bag seed
for Mendo perps.
And I think that's kind of where we're at with this.
Oh man, if Naboo had a voodoo doll right now, he'd be getting stabbed in the jungular vein.
He would.
He would.
He definitely would.
He would be really upset.
But it does seem like the timeline is correct.
Yes.
You know?
The only thing I'll say about the Blackberry, whether it was Blackberry or Blackberry Kush,
both of them were pretty weak potency wise.
Yeah, hella midzy, fam.
I wouldn't say midzy, but not potent.
No, yeah, it was very hard to get high from that stuff.
You know, if that was the only thing in your jar, you better have a light potency.
A light tolerance, I should say, if you want to get anywhere on it.
For me.
Yeah.
Yeah, me too.
And yeah, Blackberry Kush especially, I had a very hard time.
It was beautiful too, because it was super resinous.
And it was one of those things that I always put in my head as like, that was some beautiful
looking weed.
And when you pick it up, you see all that resin.
It was the, it was the, it was the shit that taught me pretty fucking frosty weed doesn't
necessarily mean you're going to get fucked up.
For me, Blackberry Kush was the kind of thing that brokers would come up here and freak
out on and buy a shit ton of.
Yeah.
Once.
Yeah, once.
And they wouldn't, they wouldn't move it.
They were like, No, I got way too many complaints.
It was too like, people want to get high.
And some people are comparing it to Purple Punch.
But Purple Punch has, I think, personally great turps.
And I would say Blackberry Kush really was not on the great turp range.
No, and we didn't even call, there was no turps then.
That was even, that was even before most of the revolution of hashish that happened again
with all the nails and all that.
So it never got the, it never really got the, I don't know, it was, it was bumped in
Mendo for a time.
But yeah, yeah, whatever.
Okay, here's your, your, your favorite.
Chemdog.
I think we started covering some of it.
So go ahead.
The Chemdog.
You know, yeah, I mean, you know, it was, it's one of those things where it's been talked
about tons by various people, myself, our buddy Skunk VA and all that.
I would say that the best thing you could say about Chemdog is that it is, it's got
rare potency, very rare potency.
And the potency tends to be dominant and translate into lots of hybrids that you make with it.
So it makes up for being, and strangely, it doesn't look very resinous.
It's not very pretty.
It sort of looks to me like ancient.
It's you know, it's like some kind of ancient ugly Afghan.
Yeah, I think it's hideous.
And like, I see the Skunk VA, Crazy Composer, those two can make that shit look so pretty.
I don't know how they do it.
But most grows, like even my grows of it, I see it is just cannibalizing its own leaves.
Oh, it does.
I mean, that, that actually Sour does the same thing as that.
And that's kind of why I think, but they, there's an aspect to that where a lot of I'll
say this, and this might piss some people off or whatever.
But there's a lot of people that are taking, we would always take the dog to like, say
10 weeks.
Yeah.
Right.
And that's when we kind of somewhere between 65 and 72 or 73 days, depending on how long
you could let it rock, you know?
And you know, it would test somewhere between, you know, 18 and 22 or 23% then, but it knocked
your head off.
Yeah.
And then when all this testing bullshit came into effect, they realized that that was too
low.
Yeah.
And so some people started cutting it at like 53, 54 days and you can see white hairs all
over it, but it'll test at 29%.
And then, so the grower gets to grow it quicker and turn it quicker.
And then the dispensary is happy because it gets to put this high THC label on it.
And a lot of people end up on the legal market these days buying premature chem dog, in my
opinion.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And I don't know what it does to my head.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So it would be nice if it had flavor too.
That helps.
Sometimes, this is what I'll say.
Sometimes, and this is just my personal opinion.
Sometimes chem dog has amazing flavor.
Yeah.
Really deep flavor that I love and I can smell it in the weed and it can, and that smell
translates and like I grow chem dog all the time and maybe one or two rips a year.
It gives me that flavor.
Yeah.
And I have tried a million different ways to figure out whether it's heat, whether it's
new, whether it's this, whether it's that I've grown in salt, I've grown it organic,
I've grown it every which way you can imagine.
Yeah.
And it's just finicky.
Sometimes it gives me the flave.
Sometimes the potency is almost always there.
Yeah.
It's, it, it, the potency and the high is pretty, is pretty standard.
Yeah.
The closest I've seen of that terp extreme was from, and I always talk about this, but
like, Hey, I've like, I didn't get the love for chem 91 or the dog, as you guys called
it until I smoked a chem 91 hybrid that he had made.
That was very chem 91 dominant in the turf, but it was just turned to a 10.
I imagine it's probably how chem 91 was when you guys first started growing it.
And I understood the love for it after that because that, that turf profile is fucking
nice.
It's very unique.
I've never smelled anything close to it.
It, uh, it's in there.
It's just hard to coax out.
And it does do this thing where you can grow it perfectly organic or chem, whatever, you
know, uh, whatever you want to do.
And a lot of the times it'll get this leaf rust and it'll start cannibalizing its leaves
and it'll start dying.
I'll start looking like shit.
Um, uh, the bud itself usually stays perfectly fine.
Yeah.
You know, but, uh, but yeah, it's rough.
I see, I see a lot of those endless white pistols on it too.
Just like no matter what people do, it just will keep throwing white or stigma.
So I'll throw, I'll throw out something interesting when you used to grow it under like hortalox
or your standard, whatever.
Yeah.
It would take 80, it would take 70, like I said, 68, 72 days, something like that.
Right.
I grew a bunch of my favorite head stash under pure ceramic metal halides, like a blend of
the 31 and the 42 and the dog shit got done two weeks earlier.
Yeah.
And I pulled the chem, the chem 91 at 87 days and it still had white hairs all over it.
Yeah.
So it did this weird thing where the spectrum made the sativa finished two weeks faster
than I'm used to.
Yeah.
And then made the dog go two and a half weeks longer than I've ever seen it and it still
wasn't done.
That's super weird.
So who the fuck knows why that is, you know?
But yeah, I mean, I've been, I've been growing it since 1998.
It's one of my favorite strains.
So I usually have one or two at least going for head.
Yeah.
So I've grown it a lot.
Okay.
Next up, your second favorite, maybe.
Chem D.
Chem D?
Yeah.
Chem D is cool.
You know, chem D has a different high than chem 91.
It's prettier.
It's frostier.
Much prettier.
It smells, people call it, you know, I don't know what you call it, roadkill or dead bodies
or some kind of like decrepit funk.
I always refer to it as like bad breath to me.
But what's weird about it is that I can crack a jar six feet away from someone and they'll
be like, who's got the skunk?
Yeah.
I've also smelled baby shit come out of it, like pure putrid baby shit.
But then you-
It has a lot of expressions.
Yeah.
But then you get close to it and you can't smell that skunk.
Yes.
You just smell the putrid.
Yes.
You know?
And I think, I think it's a, I think it's a, I think it's a hybrid, honestly, of, this
might get me in trouble, but I think it's a hybrid of chem 91 and super skunk.
Yes.
And I think the super skunk gives it its frost and its color.
It even herms kind of like the super skunk did.
And like I said, the chem 91 throws that crazy potency.
Yeah.
So it's a short squat Afghan.
I would also say that there's three or four fakes that float around.
Yes.
And those fakes tended to get trade baited a lot more than the original cut.
So Matt was talking about how certain cuts got buried by the wave of what came after.
Yes.
Lots and lots of people have fake chem D.
Everybody wanted D, but not everybody had access to D, but there was always a bunch
of people willing to, to, to pass around fake versions of it for a little bit of chinga,
you know?
So, and there's this thing too, where it's like, when I say trade baiting, what Matt
and I mean, when we talk about trade baiting is some people would go after cuts just to
get certain things to be able to trade them for other things.
Yes.
So like there was people like myself or Skunk VA or others that held onto the chem D and
had them and there's different people that had it and they held it kind of tight.
And then there was some people that got it just so they could use that cut to unlock
a bunch of other cuts they wanted to get access to.
Yes.
So they spread out and it just so happened that they got some fakes and even like some
pretty reputable people that like are supposed to know a bunch got faked.
So it was, it was out there was a bunch, there's a bunch of people and it can be really hard
to tell in the bag what, you know, they look very similar.
Side by side grows usually show you and to me, the real D like it has a potency and a
flavor of the other ones don't.
Yeah.
So there you go on that one.
I have no idea.
Someone just said, I have no idea if the GMO was made with the real chem.
I mean, GMO was made in Spain, I think.
So I'm very doubtful that it was used.
GMO is a great cut on its own.
So it's just kind of irrelevant in the sense that it works good, it yields good, it smokes
good, it washes good.
So, you know, it's a good cut.
Yeah.
And I always like when I categorize it in my head, I always refer to like, the chem D
I remember it as the more cushy looking one by its nature, how it stacks and everything.
And the chem two, I always remember as the most cushy of the bunch.
It was more like little tiny nugs looking at all.
If I'm being real, I think there's chem 91 in both Sour Diesel and in chem D.
Yeah.
I think chem D is sort of like a squat Afghan version.
And Sours are sort of like a tall, lanky Colombians, skunk type version.
Yeah.
That's my, that's my view.
Okay.
Chem dog number four.
Chem dog number four is cool.
It's probably the most widely circulated chem.
Yeah.
I would say.
I didn't see a lot of fake cuts ever pop up.
There's not really fake cuts.
It yields like a champ.
And it, it reminds me a lot of NL5 Hayes.
Yes.
Our buddy Pip, who we joke loves to take everything 12 weeks, no matter how long it's supposed
to take.
Yeah.
I had him take a really nice nug of chem four and put it on top of a picture of Neville's
1989 NL5 Hayes.
I have it on my phone.
I can't, you know, and, but it's like, it really is a dead ringer.
Yeah.
And I, if I smoke enough chem D or chem four, I get like a raciness in my chest.
Yeah.
It has long running buds.
It's much taller.
The only thing I'll say about it is that it takes probably 12 weeks and a lot of people
cut it at 10.
Yeah.
I think a lot of people were cutting it at eight to nine, like in California.
So there's a, there's a lot of chem D that doesn't make the cut because most people don't
want to take it that full 12 weeks.
I like that quote, the blue dream of gas.
Yes.
Yeah.
But if you, if you take, if you take the chem four 84 days or something like that and you
grow it nice, it's, it's really nice.
And I would say no chem four is probably one of the furthest from the original.
It looks nothing like the chem 91.
Actually, chem one is probably the furthest from the original, but chem four definitely
is very far from it.
Indeed.
Yeah.
So let's see, I think we don't have to do the chem sister S one specifically.
Let's do, we can do the chem sis real quick.
Okay, go ahead.
The chem sis is dead.
Yes.
It exists in a couple of S ones.
One of them is called the Bundy cut.
One of them got traded as chem D all over the place, mislabeled.
My buddy that I always call Staten Island confirmed that Greg had both the sis and the
dog in the early nineties.
And he chose not to bring the sis West because he didn't like the high and it was ugly as
shit.
Yeah.
So there you go.
Yeah.
That's, that's good history on it.
You know, um, uh, cherry slider.
Do you have any experience with cherry slider?
No, I have no history on that one.
It came from a dude named Skitty.
It was, it was from the early boards.
Um, I wasn't a big fan of it.
Very leafy.
Somebody just asked, what is the chem sis skunk VA uses?
I think he uses the Bundy cut, which is a chem sis S one.
Uh, I talked to Greg about the chem sis because it, since it never came West, uh, with my
buddy, I never really had a bunch of, uh, access to it or anything.
And he told me as far as he knew, the original was dead and there was only some bag seeds
that existed.
So be that as it may.
All right.
Um, you ever fuck with chocolate trip?
Nope.
Nope.
Okay.
I grew up with a chocolate trip.
Um, the one I grew is the one a lot of people grew and I thought it was like a C 99 probably,
but no one's ever said that.
Like I've never talked to anybody about it, so maybe I'm just fucking stupid.
One thing I'll say about Dutch flowers is that I've always, I've always, I've said a
bunch on this show that I thought that weed wasn't ready for modern day marketing techniques
because we're a bunch of like half autistic weirdos that hide out with plants.
Um, you know, Dutch flowers in the forum days, they wrote beautiful ad copy.
Oh, the best.
The best.
You would read their metal Hayes or their chocolate trip or their this or that, and
you'd read it and they would get people so hyped for their drop.
Just paragraph upon paragraph of gorgeous writing about what the weed was like.
Yep.
And people would get so fucking excited about every single Dutch flowers drop.
Yep.
And, uh, and you know, yeah, they, they, they did well with let's get a professional ad
guy in here and evoke some language.
Yeah.
They use language very well.
They sure did.
Um, I collected their stuff heavily and even after I found out like by growing a bunch
of it, that it was really, it was either just stuff renamed or just not very interesting,
you know?
Um, people are asking questions real quick that are going way too fast.
So I'm apologize if, if your question doesn't get picked up cause we're trying to chat and
whatnot.
Um, but I will say someone just mentioned pot of gold pot of gold was a, uh, um, pot
of gold and, uh, was, was one of my favorite, probably my favorite thing that came from
the flying Dutchman and it was a Hindu Kush by skunk one.
Yeah.
It was a very, very flavorful strain.
I liked it a whole bunch.
They also had this other thing called the real McCoy, which was a Hawaiian by Scott
and they might be on the list, but there's a, it was a Hawaiian by skunk one that was
also super good.
Um, I liked both of those a bunch.
And then the final good question I thought was gravity from Neville.
Um, we think, although we're not sure, it seems like gravity is unreleased versions
of black domino.
Uh, so black domino was a, a sensei release.
It was, um, hash plant by NL one by, uh, garlic.
Yeah.
But he had a few different versions that he made before he released it.
And I think gravity is one of the two unreleased versions.
Uh, yes.
Metal haze is one of the Dutch flowers ones as well.
Uh, that was basically a skunk haze and it was definitely one of the ones that they got
people drooling over releasing it.
I grew a bunch of that one as well, but we are going in motherfucking alphabetical.
All right, I'm fucking it up.
So whatever you got damn pin devils.
So, um, uh, let's see.
Um, cotton candy, cotton candy.
Did you ever grow a cotton candy?
I did grow a cotton candy.
I wish I knew more about it.
Um, and I actually recently grew a cotton candy S one through my, my, my buddy, uh,
who lives near me that I've traded back and forth with for forever.
I don't know anything about the lineage or the backstory of it.
Um, but I did like it.
It was Federation seeds.
Cotton candy was the one that I was familiar with.
And like most stuff from Federation, there's, um, a lot of accusations of name rate, renaming,
whatnot.
So I'm not sure what it really is, but I've always been a big fan of it.
You know, I liked cotton candy.
I think that it will make a comeback one day just because it's of its name and it's a structure.
It had a good modern look to it.
Somebody just threw in, uh, uh, SensiStar genetics.
Um, Luke from Paradise Seeds is SensiStar.
SensiStar is an amazing line.
He refuses to talk any lineage or history that I'm aware of about specifics of SensiStar.
Uh, Matt, myself, our buddy Pip, others have been hunting forever for real information.
Uh, don't know.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I've been hunting recently with Luke and, and I highly respect Luke.
Like he's one of the most respected, um, actual breeders over in Amsterdam by other seed makers
and breeders.
He's a very serious breeder, but it came from a different era where a lot of people stole
his, his genetics that he would give out testers.
People would release it before he even released it.
So, uh, yeah.
I would say a lot of the, um, people like, uh, Simon from Serious Seeds, Luke, uh, others,
they didn't see any benefit in giving out lineage that their competitors would just
steal and claim to have the same thing.
So Neville was extremely open about what he used and where he got it.
And every other Dutch person after that was tight lipped as fuck.
Yeah.
I would say that's probably accurate, right?
Yeah.
That's super accurate.
They got, they got very tight lipped.
They saw no benefit to revealing what it was made of.
It was all their secret sauce.
They didn't want anybody stealing the genetics and then didn't even want anybody writing
similar genetics on their own packaging.
Yeah.
So they just kept quiet about it.
So I don't, we don't know what SensiStar is.
We don't know what AK is.
We don't know what CaliMyst is.
We just don't.
Yeah.
Um, uh, Koff.
K-K-K-Koff.
Koff is something that we have a really good friend of ours on the discord, um, that is
probably more suited to talk Koff history than us.
Uh, but Koff is very likely an NL5 haze pheno.
It came out of Connecticut in the early nineties and it made its way to Colorado.
Most people refer to it as the Fort Collins Koff, but it did start on the East coast.
Um, it's a, it's an NL5, to me it's an NL, it's, it's an NL5 haze.
It grows like it, it smokes like it, it's got the buzz like it.
Um, it's a, it's one of those, you know, it's one of the surviving NL5 haze phenos
in America.
Um, there was Koff one and Koff two, which were hybrids of that, which have their own
sort of story behind them.
Um, he might be good.
Maybe we'll have him on one day to promote.
He breeds and does cool shit and he's a good friend of ours and he knows a lot of the story,
but that's the big.
He just did a, um, an interview with dude grow shows, a working man where he gives the
whole history that he knows of the Koff if people want to watch it, it was just recently
uploaded and he's a trustworthy character and he's had it for 20 plus years and you
know, he knows most of the people involved that brought it to Colorado.
So you know, um, it's a great cut.
It's one of the, it's, I would say I've, I've said this before too, but NL5 haze probably
has the most surviving cuts around of any nineties cross.
Yeah.
I would say so that between Europe and here.
Um, and that's one of them.
Yep.
So it's a great cut.
Yields huge.
Takes a while.
It takes 12, 13 weeks, you know, but there you go.
Um, Dabney blue, did Dabney blue ever run up in your area?
It was big in San Diego and it was big in SoCal.
But yeah, that's something I know.
Like my, my knowledge might even be negative.
Yeah.
It's, it's, it was an awesome cut.
Very frosty.
It had a blueberry muffin type turf.
Very, it was more potent than most of the blueberries that were around.
So yeah.
Um, that's about all there is on it.
I haven't seen it in a long time.
Somebody's asking about big sir.
Holy weed.
Holy Jesus.
Oh yeah.
I guess we didn't, we didn't cover big sir.
Holy weed.
We could do a big sir.
Holy weed.
That's, that's, I got a couple of things.
Um, big sir.
Holy weed has a lot of, uh, there's a lot of legends behind it.
It was supposedly grown by monks in central California.
Um, I will say that my, my buddy who gave me both the super skunk and the chem, it was
his favorite weed that he could get on dead tour.
And supposedly there was big sir.
Holy skunk and big sir.
Holy Hayes.
Oh, interesting.
And both were sold on dead tour.
And he swears that big sir.
Holy had such a unique smell that you could have somebody walk by and that was like the
fanny pack era, you know, uh, you could have somebody walk by and not only could you tell
that they had good weed, you could tell that they had the big sir.
Holy.
Yeah.
Um, and then there's a guy, there's some guys obviously that brought some seeds and some
stuff that have some legend to it that brought it to maybe Adam Dunn or somebody like that.
And they had supposedly they mixed it into sage.
Um, but that's, you know, it's what Adam Dunn didn't make sage, but so you wouldn't have
been the one that got it.
I can never pronounce this, but it's supposedly descended maybe from purple.
Oh, the Z Huatanejo purple.
Yeah.
And they also refer to it as Zacatecas purple because Zacatecas is a Z and easier to pronounce.
But yeah, it was the Z Huatanejo purple.
So the hooked on phonics truck never stopped by my house.
So I just let Matt take that one because I was going to mangle it bad if I tried to
say it, but there's a bunch of rumors about it.
It's a legendary strain.
One of my oldest friends, uh, it was his favorite weed on dead tour and it was sold on dead
tour two different types.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I don't know what's been proven about it, what it hasn't been proven about it.
Um, I know that that's supposedly one of the key ingredients in Sensi Star.
Um, that was from a direct quote from Adam Dunn, but thank you for what it is.
Um, yeah, you know, there's the Danville.
People are asking a bunch of questions and stuff like that.
And we're trying to go through this stuff.
So you know, there's, there's good questions.
We're not going to get to them all, which I apologize.
I mean, we're trying to do this in alphabetical order or some kind of order.
So if you guys are asking for shit down in the S's, it'll be a while because this is
looking like it'll be a few parter.
Yeah.
So bear with us.
I'm going to be doing that right now.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I'm determined to keep this in some kind of fucking order.
Okay.
Daywrecker Diesel.
Uh, you know, I, um, that one has a lot of legend to it.
Uh, and I think because it has a lot of legend and not a lot of like, like information, there's
a lot of claims made about it.
Yeah.
Like some people refer to the Daywrecker as the first real headband.
Yeah.
Although the original crew that had the first headband never called it that at all.
Yeah.
You know, um, you know, it's, uh, you know, diesel is one of the most famous American
families and there's a lot of nicknames that get attached to it.
I've never ran anything that I thought was Daywrecker diesel that had any kind of, um,
any kind of verifiable story.
Yeah.
I, I, I've done a deep dive and it's actually on the Breeder Syndicate YouTube.
I believe it's up there and you can watch it up there.
I recently made it available.
Um, I did a deep dive on trying to do a research provenance based on internet research on the
Daywrecker diesel and I got not very far.
It doesn't go back very far, but the clone's been around a long time.
So it's really hard to find things other than like some, some tour manager from Grateful
Dead kind of gave it out to some people and that's likely where, where it begins the story.
And, um, it, it does appear to be some kind of chem 91 hybrid to me, like chem 91 early
OG type hybrid.
Um, super not, it's really potent.
It's ripping potent and breeds for that potency.
I love the cut, but I just don't know if it's the original diesel like it claims.
Probably not.
What's the next one?
Uh, we got dog shit, electric boogaloo.
Ooh, I know.
So, okay.
Uh, the dog shit, electric boogaloo was, it came out of Minneapolis area, Minnesota
in the very early nineties.
It's supposed to be a NL five Hayes.
I wouldn't say that's a hundred percent guaranteed.
It's conjecture a little bit, but boy, does it really, I think it is.
Um, it made its way to Oregon and got renamed dog shit, which is a shame.
Um, because it was, uh, uh, I think electric boogaloo is one of the coolest weed names.
Yeah, it is.
Um, I grow it.
I like it a bunch.
It's uh, um, you know, it's a 12 or 13 week, uh, sativa very up high.
Uh, and it kind of looks like to me like classic nineties, Northern lights.
Uh, it kind of smells like classic nineties weed to me.
Yeah, it's, it's, it's one of the pretty, if it is pure NL five Hayes, it's one of the
prettier ones as far as like visually attractive.
Um, I've had it for a while.
I love it.
Yeah.
It's a great cut.
Great buzz.
Highly recommend it.
Highly recommend the hybrids that come from it.
If you can get it or get hybrids of it.
Uh, I enjoy it quite a bit.
So this is one that's totally, I have no experience with at all, but you might dumpster dumpster,
uh, dumpster is, uh, supposedly the story of dumpster is that a guy got busted, right?
And the cops in the nineties were throwing all of his equipment and his weed out in a
dumpster.
And while they were upstairs fucking with it, some people walked by and saw weed plants,
uh, sticking out of the dumpster and grabbed one and ran off with it.
And they named it dumpster.
Yeah.
Likely story.
I mean, it might be real, who knows?
That's the story behind it.
Whether or not that story is true or whether it's a tale or whatever.
Um, that doesn't give you a lot of information about its lineage.
Yeah, obviously.
But you know, um, G 13 we did just a few weeks ago with archive.
We just uploaded it.
We went into more detail on it so we can skip over that one for now.
The golden fucking goat.
I'll let you talk about the golden goat.
Yeah.
Um, it was made by, uh, Jeff, Mr. Dank from Colorado.
If I'm correct, there was a, a sister cut.
I believe there, uh, I can't remember its name, but the funky bitch or something like
that.
Um, I think it was a ISS Romulan Island sweet skunk and Island sweet skunk was a rename
of something else from somewhere else.
Island sweet skunk is supposedly an NL5 haze pheno.
Really?
Yep.
A hundred percent.
Um, I know multiple Canadians that have told me that.
And uh, supposedly it got renamed by Mark Emery.
Yeah.
Who wanted skunk seeds to sell in his catalog.
Um, but it is supposedly an NL5 haze pheno.
Um, you know, and it was crossed to something from, uh, the one that got sold from Mark
Emery was crossed to something, um, that Breeder Steve had.
I can't remember.
I could get the story.
It's not popping up in my head right on the top of my head, but that's, that's what it
is.
Yeah.
And they're right.
Actually, um, Mr. Dank was from Kansas.
That is correct.
I don't know why I said Colorado.
It got real popular in Colorado.
I think maybe he moved there.
I might be wrong on that, but it got super popular in Colorado for a long time.
And yeah, Island Sweet Skunk hybrid of Steve's Sweet Skunk.
And that's why he flipped out about it.
Um, Sweet Skunk Widow.
There we go.
Sweet Skunk Widow ISS.
Um, yeah, I don't, I mean, that's what Steve says it is.
And the Federation supposedly changed the name and his story.
Um, but yeah, it was, I thought Golden Goat was very frosty.
It was a nice, like a narrow leaf dominant plant.
I liked it a lot.
Um, but yeah, it was, it was one of those ones that got overblown in Colorado.
So a lot of people just kind of shit talked it after a time, but I thought it was pretty
good.
I thought it was decent.
Um, the granddaddy purple.
So granddaddy purple came about, um, in the purple craze era.
I would say that the, probably the first two purple cuts that got famous right then, uh,
was my Mendo perps and the Urkel.
Um, and then right around that same time, lavender came up.
There's a debate between whether or not lavender was massively different than Urkel or was
just a different little pheno.
Um, my buddy that I was just talking about, uh, that lives over in Lake County, I remember
20, 22 years ago, something like that.
Um, he had brought down the lavender from, uh, uh, Myers flat area of Humboldt and I
had the Urkel and we like looked at it and it was like the same, it was like almost as
close to the same weed as you could imagine.
Yeah.
Um, granddaddy purple was supposedly that, uh, Urkel by, by Big Bud.
Um, people have, people have tried to push it on that, that this gentleman that disappeared,
sadly, a long time ago from Salmon Creek that maybe it was crossed to the Salmon Creek,
Big Bud, people that worked for him and stuff like that said that they don't believe that
because they never saw it, you know, and why wouldn't they have it if it came from there?
Is it that Chris guy?
Yeah, Chris, Chris Giacchi.
He disappeared in 03 or so.
Um, he was murdered, but they've never found him.
So, um, it's an open case still.
And um, you know, so there's, there's different versions of, of Grant, of, of the origin story.
I will say that the origin of granddaddy purple, the origin of Urkel, uh, are all very mysterious.
Yeah.
There's lots of people that have tossed their hat into the ring, um, and said various things
about it.
Oh yeah, for sure.
But I don't know that, you know, it's one of, it's for how popular it became.
Um, you know, it's one of the ones that you really can't tie back to anyone.
Um, I know some GDP stories.
I don't know if I tend to believe them.
Um, but, um, I'll tell it, you know, and people make their decision on it.
So there's this one, there's this woman that I'm friends with her family.
Um, it was pretty rare to have a pretty woman growing up in Laytonville and, and, uh, Mendo
area.
It's kind of like furry, weird hippie men that do it, you know?
So someone in their twenties and thirties growing, um, supposedly there was this old
Vietnam vet that brought back some, some seeds from Vietnam and, uh, grew a bunch of
hay and grew a bunch of sativas and started mixing them with local Afghans and sort of
had his own, which was really common at the time, his own, his own hill wheat.
Right.
And then, um, he was retiring, uh, cause he'd done really well.
And he gave, he gave her a few hundred seeds of his hill wheat.
Right.
And, um, she said that she found what, what got called the GDP in the first 50 seats.
Yeah.
Right.
Uh, later on she partnered, I helped her build it actually.
She partnered on a 66 slider with, uh, Ken Estes.
Yeah.
Right.
I can say his full name cause he's, he's well known.
Um, and she gave the cut to him.
She's a super anarchist, had no interest in being public or anything like that.
Ken took it down to the bay and added his name to it.
He's one of the first people I know of that added his name to a cut.
Yep.
You know, later on, other people started doing that, taking cuts that weren't theirs and
throwing their name on it as part of claiming it.
Yep.
And he's given some mangled versions of that story I just told.
Yeah.
Because he didn't actually have any part to do with the origin story.
He got it from my friend.
Yeah.
And, um, the interview that I post all the time of Ken telling his origin stories, at
first he says it was a, uh, a skunk from a Vietnam vet that quickly turns into a native
American gifted it to him in front of a, um, some headlights because he was such a wonderful
white man.
Um, so he, so he turned it into a seed line that he helpfully called Ken's GDP.
Yep.
Um, and all that.
And so, um, but my version of it and I knew them at the time was that she gave it to him.
Yeah.
And that, you know, and this is back in the early two thousands or whatever, when everyone
wanted to stay invisible, especially if you were running 60, 70 lights and off a generator
in the woods.
Sure.
And he decided to go down and flow it into the bay and flow it into third floor and flow
it into various dispensaries and made a name for himself.
Yeah.
So you can choose what you want to believe.
Yeah.
About all that.
Um, here's, here's another one that ties straight into it and that's great.
Kyle Cushman's is it, it was he the inventor, was it Brett Bogue from, um, Apothecary?
Was he the inventor of the grape?
Who is, who is the creator of grape?
This might also get me in trouble.
Um, but, uh, so I'll say this, okay.
And I'll just let people decide.
Yeah.
Um, yeah, as, as everyone is well aware, uh, you know, when things become famous quickly,
one or two famous cuts start getting renamed or hybrids or bag seeds start getting named
because there's this, there's this, you know, um, big push to have your own shit.
Yeah.
It happened with Cush, it happened with Cookie, it happened with the Purple Krates, right?
So at first there was just Mendo Perps and Urkel.
Then all of a sudden there was Mendo Perps, Urkel, Grape Ape, GDP, Platinum Purple, Purple
Dragon on and on and on and on.
Right.
So, uh, some people think that Grape Ape came out of Willits.
Some people think that Grape Ape, um, was just a rename.
Okay.
Um, but there's a gentleman, uh, you can find him on the internet.
He, his, his name's Dallas.
Um, and he partnered with, with Shiloh and he claims that he flew it down from Canada,
uh, in cigar cases and brought the Grape Ape to Mendo.
So he claims that.
Okay.
So Kyle Cushman had nothing to do with it other than Kyle Cushman moved to Mendo in,
I don't remember, 05, 06 or something like that.
And became friends with dude and got it from him.
Very, very, very good.
But Kyle had absolutely nothing to do with it whatsoever.
If you want to give anybody credit, it's either renamed GDP or Urkel, a bag seat of such,
or Homi actually did that.
Yeah.
So, you know, with a lot of these outlaw stories and stuff, it's kind of who you choose
to believe.
I remember there was also the story that it was Urkel Sheba Skunk as well.
And is that just what went around with it?
I mean, he and Bodhi both referred to it as Urkel's pretty sister.
It showed up after the purple craze was, I mean, I'll explain the purple craze for a
minute.
When I mean the purple craze, I mean that there was brokers coming up from the bay to
Mendo and saying, we will buy every gram of this purple weed that you can get your
hands on.
You have 50 of them, you have 80 of them, you have 150 of them, you have 250 of them,
I'll cash you out.
And so what happens to growers when they start hearing brokers want to cash you out on however
much you have.
And so your neighbor is like, dude, I'm having some trouble moving my weed.
It's not going as fast as I want.
And the neighbor's like, well, I'll give you this cut and you just give it all to me.
And I'll move everything you got in it.
Right?
So, you know, and then after a craze happens like that, all these different names pop up,
right?
So, you know, it went from one or two purple strains to eight or 10 of them within a year
or two.
Yeah.
And it probably would have lasted longer, but sort of the cush craze and the sour diesel
thing happened and sort of pushed the purples to the side.
Yeah.
You know?
So that's that.
Green crack, also known as green cush with a C.
Um, I, you know, I don't have a verifiable story behind it.
You know, I know people claim various things.
You might know more about it than I do that you might want to speak on it.
To me, it's some kind of skunk one.
Yeah.
It grows like a skunk.
I don't know that it's pure skunk or anything like that, but boy, it grows.
And a lot of, I think a lot of like DNA's lemon skunk and all that shit is just a prettier
name for green crack.
Oh, interesting.
Yeah.
Um, it was called green cush when it entered our circle and I got it through the hogs family
circle.
Um, so it was originally whenever it was on the tags, it was always CUSH cush and no,
Cecil did not make green crack or have anything to do with it.
How Cecil's name entered it and me and Cecil went over this specifically because I was
one of the first people to bring green crack into seed form to the community and stuff.
So I wanted to hunt down the history on it.
And I had heard the same thing with Cecil.
His crew had a seed line called CUSH, C-U-S-H.
And that's as far as the connection went.
It was that they both had renamed cushes and they were both spelled C.
But that's as far as the connection went.
I think it's probably a skunk one type because it's super mango.
With a little bit of cold, it would turn mega, mega purple.
It also bred true for that purple trait and it would show up genetically as opposed to
just with cold and it's hybrids.
I think I want to see it come back, but it's one of those clones that was everywhere and
now is nowhere all at once.
I'll say the same thing.
I'll say the same thing about, I said about blue dream.
You grow a four to six or seven ounce plant of green crack.
It's really nice weed.
You grow a five or eight pound plant in the outdoor and beat the fuck out of it and don't
dry it the right way.
You grow a little moderate sized plant of it.
It's got really nice lemony turps.
It's got a unique kind of aroma to it.
It has a nice uplifting buzz.
It's very pretty.
It burns well.
Someone mentioned it.
I do think DNA's lemon skunk is just a renamed green crack that they prettied up to breed
with.
They were known for doing that.
When they started their company, no offense to them or anything, they just went around
Mendo and Humboldt and various places and gathered up as many good clone only's as they
could.
Yeah.
Well, they started their company as Soma's little buddies and he gave them a C99 that
they renamed to some sort of haze, cantaloupe haze, I believe they called it that.
They started their company off of C99 and renamed it.
When you start your company that way, there's no reason to start doing it the right way.
That's the way I look at it.
The seed business has never been particularly honorable.
No.
We got Hog's Breath.
That's you, buddy.
Did you ever smoke a grove?
No.
That's you.
Yeah, that was from our crew, our San Diego crew.
It was made by Jimbo, James Hogg, rest in peace.
He said several different things that it possibly could have been made.
His big one was a Williams Wonder Hybrid.
I think personally it was probably a skunk one, some type of Afghani Williams Wonder
would fit, Rotten Lights would fit of some sort.
It could be foot funky cheese.
It had a lot of the similar thiolic smells of like a Kemp D or a cheese.
And I've seen sweet hogs.
It has very specific type growth traits on top, kind of foxtail-y a little bit on top.
Yeah, it wasn't allowed out of our circle for a long time.
And once it was, it was out in everyone's hands.
So yeah, I think a lot of people are working with it now and the real one's out there.
And even though James is gone, his family still runs the clothing company and grows
and still pushes it.
So yeah, it's still out there and cool to be had.
There you go.
Here's yours, headband.
Well, there we go.
Headband used to be very mysterious.
And because it was very mysterious in origin, it was supposedly came out of New York and
there wasn't a lot of information about it, which allowed a lot of different people to
be like, this cut is the real New York City headband.
And so as a result, I have an LA cut I got as headband.
There's a headband that Loompa attached his name to.
Never heard of her.
There's a headband that I call the 56 Day.
You know, there's a number of headbands.
Almost all of them are good smoke.
But then recently it's come out and some of the old Sour crew has come out and said that
they had these cuts, Diesel 1 and Diesel 2, which were bag seed of some chem they were
getting.
And they grew them out.
And there was a buddy of theirs in New York that thought that the Diesel 2 made it feel
like there was a band around his head after he smoked it.
And they nicknamed it the headband.
And it so happens that that cut, the seeds coming out of that cut is where the first
Sour Diesel came from.
So then 707 headband, the headband that I have that I call the LA, 707 is a child of
that made by Mandelbrot.
He crossed that to something that I'm not sure of.
And then, you know, you get things like people were, you know, there's people that, and who
knows if that's, there's people that think that have tried to say that the one that Matt
uses, what I call the 56 is the original New York City headband and people advertise it
at that.
Duke had it.
They were, him and his crew were big on saying it was the first headband.
Diesel was big on saying that his headband was the only real headband and everything
else was a pale imitation.
And then the Sour people come out and start talking about it.
And it turns out that, you know, the headband they're speaking of that was the first one
was not Kush like at all.
So it's one of those ones that there was a lot of stories based on it because there was
a bunch of mystery.
And there's also a thing about that 56 day.
I call it the 56 day just because that's, it's like the least offensive nickname of
it.
But that came out of the Kush crew in Southern California and it came up to the Bay and they
renamed it intentionally.
Lumpa's story is a bit shady.
He got to say the least and he got it and he got it and he decided to add his name to
it.
Yes.
And since he's been extremely touchy about that headband has to be the best headband
and everybody else is just a bitch for trying to have as good of a headband as Lumpa headband.
Yeah.
So it's really a muddled history.
You know, every time we talk about it, it stirs up so much shit.
You guys have no fucking clue.
So there's the 707 headband, which is a Mandelbrot seed creation that he used off the mother
cut that I still have the LA.
There's a couple of what I consider to be OG Kush type Finos, which is the 56 and the
Lumpa.
The old school guys that first had the diesel two and the headband, they think it's dead.
Yeah.
And they're suspect that it could exist on the West Coast.
So like a lot of things, there's mystery.
Yeah.
Let's put it that way.
There was one major claim that Duke had bought it from Chemdog, but I specifically asked
Chemdog about it and he said he's never grown headband.
So that's a problem.
I mean, I'm pretty sure that when, you know, when Duke and Homie tried to work for your
buddy Matt and Matt Elite, that he got it in that little arrow when he was in Colorado.
And had no previous experience with it.
That cut that he uses is a super, super nice, very potent cut.
Sure.
Yeah.
It's just a Kush cut.
It's not diesel.
It's not the original headband.
Definitely.
And they, and, you know, and yeah, and Lumpa's headband is a cut that he got under suspicious
circumstances and renamed it.
Yep.
After himself.
Yep.
And Mateo, yeah.
Hemphill worked with the Elite crew.
Dave and them.
So that would be exactly what we're talking about.
Icy Collective, probably Skunk VA.
They all have that.
That cut kind of got pushed around the bay a bit.
I think I got it in 06 maybe.
And so, but yeah, I mean, it's not original headband.
And yeah, Duke got it when he worked with Matt Elite and Bob Hemphill in Colorado.
Yeah.
I'm not saying nothing.
I get blamed for every time Duke's name's mentioned.
I'm not saying shit.
You got Jack's Cleaner.
I don't know shit about Jack's Cleaner, bro.
My main experience with it is via NCGA's work with Jack's Cleaner.
I know Subcool, you know, he used it for Jack the Ripper.
It was very cleaner, lemon cleaner type, you know, scent profile, very strong.
Narrowleaf super resinous, super fucking resinous.
And it bred true for that resin type.
And you see that all through TGA's work.
So yeah, Killer Queen.
I don't know very much about Killer Queen.
I know that it was a big building block in Subcool's world.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, I think maybe Space Queen.
I can't remember if Killer Queen was in Space Queen.
I think it was.
It's one of those.
I have some stories about it.
I don't have any personal, you know, it's out of that Grimm, Brothers Grimm, right?
Yes.
No, no, no, no.
It's Vic High.
Vic High.
It's based on Grimm work.
It's based on Grimm work.
C-99 Romulan.
No, no, that's Space Queen.
Hold on.
Hold on.
Bringing it back.
Airborne G-13.
C-99 Romulan, I believe.
I'll say Vic High was one of the most well-known early forum, early internet weed personalities.
He was a super nice cat.
Super smart.
Super intelligent.
Intelligent, smart, really made a name for himself on the early forums and the Overgrow
and Cannabis World and that whole era.
I never worked with it.
But it was, you know, he was very popular.
He was a real smart cat.
He helped a lot of people.
He was nice.
And so it got popular off that, I believe.
Yeah.
Lone Star, who did the blue bonnet that I worked with, also had a killer cut of Killer
Queen that would go around, big yielder, very C-99 type dominant, but had more fruity turps
from all the other shit in it.
There was a Killer Queen that was later done with the supposedly the Pacific G-13 by Motor
Rebel that was very different from the original Killer Queen.
But the original Killer Queen was a BC original and it's still used to this day.
Yeah, it's a good one.
Sweet.
Lemon G. Lemon G. Lemon G is, you know, some people call it Lemon G. Some people call it
Lemon G-13.
We have a really good buddy Pip who cropped that one for years.
It's on that citrus level where, you know, I view most citrus as sort of too one note
for me.
Yeah.
You know, but it was a big yielding, kind of ugly, long running colas plant.
And it's kind of one of those weeds that people love for two or three days and then get burned
out on.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I'm not a huge fan of it.
I can smell Lemon G and everything Lemon G is in.
Like Lemon Tree, I'm convinced is a Lemon G hybrid.
So it's super obvious to me.
It's not the prettiest bud at all.
I would consider it post cookie era.
I would consider it ugly.
Yeah, it's very ugly.
So it's not heavily cropped.
Yeah.
A lot of extract people love it, you know.
But yeah, M39.
I can never fucking remember the code names that SSSC used.
Skunk One, NL5.
I think it's just Skunk One, NL5.
It might be a Skunk One, NL5 phase.
I can't remember.
But yeah, something like that.
If that's the case, you know, I will say that, you know, when we talked to Karel, he was
extremely honest and upfront about a lot of various different subjects.
Yeah.
I did get a little cagey when I asked him about that and the basic five and if he got
any seed stock from Neville and sort of just called it by different names at the time.
He laughed and smiled and didn't say a whole lot, you know.
So we didn't really get any specifics from it.
But there's no indication that he got, that he got, you know, any private NL stock from
anyone.
Yep.
So, you know, what are you gonna say about that?
There's an interesting one.
The Massachusetts Super Skunk.
Boy.
So this one has been described in other podcasts and stuff quite a bit.
Yeah.
It's got an enormous amount of confusion about it.
It's attained legendary status, especially because some of the people that are involved
in it are very famous.
Yeah.
It was in high times.
And especially since that rank roadkill skunk seems to be the scam of the minute, where
for the last five or six years, people keep claiming that skunk, their skunk terps are
going to blow you out of the water and it's right around the corner.
I had it because the guy that went and got it from Virginia crew brought it west.
Yeah.
And gave it to, you know, you know, when, when Jerry Garcia died and skunk VA started
growing, he got the cut from my, from our buddy and started growing it.
He posted some pictures of it on his page.
I believe it's in sour diesel.
You know, it's not really from Massachusetts.
It got dropped off there by my buddy when he got the chem dog from dude.
And what's interesting about it is that the cut when skunk VA went east and got the chem
D and brought it back when we gave, when Greg got the dog back, by that point, according
to our buddy, he had already lost it.
And the Massachusetts super skunk that they posted in the high times was a lot shorter,
was a lot squatter, was a lot different.
And that's the one I believe is the mom of diesel because diesel is a spitting image
of that one.
And I was going to bring that up in the sense that it's more than likely bag seed, but it's
one of those ones where nobody really wants to claim the truth on it.
Yeah.
A lot of people keep popping up, swearing that they have it.
A lot of MS it's one of those ones where it's like, there's a massive demand for it, but
I've never seen anyone that I grew it from probably 90, I don't know, late nineties to
Oh eight ish or something.
And I've never seen a jar of it yet.
You know, everyone that claims that they have rank skunk and it's going to pop in their
seeds.
I've never seen a jar I've never, you know, and you would think that it's so popular and
people so want those skunk turps that all these various breeders and stuff that claim
that they're going to, you're going to find a bunch of skunk in their work.
You know, it's one of those legendary cuts now.
Yeah.
Most people got rid of it because it smelled like crazy.
And you know, and all that and like the Massachusetts super skunk, I will say this isn't super well
known but it is not pure super skunk either.
It was bred through various skunky things that SSC had and Neville had.
And then when Neville released the super skunk, they crossed that, that line that they already
had to the super skunk.
And phenos of that are what became famous.
Yes, that's the latest.
The information that we got, one of our members of our group got directly from the guy who
bought or bred the mass super.
And there's an aspect where, you know, there's like, like we were just talking about with
the headbands, mystery history allows various people to make wild claims thinking that it
won't ever get popped up.
It came out to California with my friend when the same time you brought the chem dog out
and it survived amongst our crew and he grew it for some time.
It went to Colorado through that breeders other friends and it got called skunk six
out there after the number of the pheno, you know, that they were growing.
And it's got a lot of legend to it.
You know, it's probably in my opinion, it's probably in chem D, it's probably it's definitely
I think it's in sour.
And a lot of people want it and it seems to not exist.
You know, maybe it exists in various forms.
We'll see maybe it pops up one day, but more people have been excited about selling the
name then making sure they have it.
Yeah, my opinion.
People have been excited about selling the name.
So I will say one other thing that, you know, Neville always said that his two best selling
things were super skunk and an NL five hates.
Yes.
So there's probably a lot of super skunk out there blended into various things.
I think that I personally think that super skunk is a lot of what people refer to as
skunky dank that went around in their area was probably a pheno super skunk.
I'm damn near convinced of this after seeing stuff like the old P 91.
My heirloom Afghani line, just an old Afghani line that happened to be from Florida is very
super skunk like the clockwork cut all kinds of shit around me was super skunk.
I navigated to people ask how the hell could it have disappeared?
And it's really simple.
Most skunk, you know, people think about this crazy turp.
And I will say that it had the turp in spades.
It was incredibly stinky.
It was only moderate potency.
It was only moderate density.
You could have this big ass bud and you'd put it on the scale and you'd be like, oh,
that's going to be six or seven grams and to be like two and a half, you know, and it
was pre carbon filters.
So it got a lot of people in trouble.
I mean, I remember driving up to my house a bunch in summer and like parking in my driveway
and I could just smell it.
And you know, it was, you know, like I said earlier on the show, other things get more
popular and people drop shit.
And then they think, oh, I can always get it back.
Someone else's holding it, someone else's holding it.
And now it's like, you know, people can't find it, you know, so, but it exists in a
lot of children.
I definitely think it's in sour diesel.
I can smell it in sour, I can even see it in sour diesel.
Yeah, there you go.
I would agree a hundred percent.
This one's from my buddy Sub Rob, the Matanuska Valley Thunderfuck.
I have a cool story about that.
Yeah, let's hear it.
So it sounds to me like the Matanuska Valley Thunderfuck ends up being kind of like creepy
or diesel or something like that in terms of it was like a name for fireweed.
Yes.
Right.
And when I was on Dead Tour, there was a buddy of ours that was from Alaska and was on tour.
And he would go home to Alaska in between tours.
And I gave him one time, I gave him like $1,200 for a quarter pound.
And then he didn't give me any weed for months and I thought he jacked me.
And then he called me up and he said, hey, I'm going to send you something.
And he sent me this weed and it showed up in the mail and it was wet.
And I took it out and I dried it and it was only like three and a half ounces.
So I lost like a half ounce of weight and it was three and a half, four months late.
But he said it was Thunderfuck and it was olive dark green with these weird hairs and
it was so good.
My buddies and I kept it in the freezer and we smoked it only for special occasions over
the next six or eight months.
Great high, great buzz, much better weed than anything we had at the time as far as
Kind Bud.
Granted, this is when I was 17, 18, 19.
So take that into account.
And everyone that's claimed Matanuska Thunderfuck since then, none of it has looked like it.
None of it looked like the weed that I got back then one time.
So there you go.
I think that's like everyone's story that I've met.
There's a lot of people from Alaska that I think are very convinced that the Matanuska
Thunderfuck that they had was the original and the only and they can tell you all about
it.
You know, who grew it, who made it, etc, etc.
But there's a lot of stories like that.
And I think that it, I think they're probably all telling their own truth.
I will say too that the package that I got mailed was mailed from Denali, Alaska post
office.
Yeah, which was pretty funny.
Yeah, that is funny.
Yeah.
Now.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I don't know.
But I thought I got ripped off for months because I gave him 1200 bucks.
And I didn't see any weed for months.
And he kept his he kept the funny thing about that.
This is a little bit of a side tangent, but he kept his he was a native to Alaska and
he kept his license and all that from Alaska because Alaska native Alaskans got oil money.
Yeah, every year.
So even though he was on dead tour, and he was like in the lower 48 most of the year,
he would keep all of his shit at his parents house and just go back there in between and
he would get like between a two and a $5,000 check every year.
Yeah, isn't that fucking wild?
One of my friends in high school got shipped out to Alaska.
We were a bunch of punk rock kids and he got in trouble.
He got in a lot of trouble one day doing some punk rock things and got shipped out to Alaska
and for a few years and he came back and he was the first person to like talk to me about
some strain that was like, he's like, bro, hugest THC numbers ever.
He's called the Matanuska Valley Thunderfuck, you know, and he had this big tale of, you
know, this very special potent weed that was out there in Alaska, you know, and I was always
trying to figure out more about this thing.
And as I as I kept digging deeper and deeper, I learned that there were several people with
several claims to several Thunderfucks out there.
The more you dig into it, the wider the story becomes.
Yeah, let's put it that way.
Lots of bikers involved in most of them.
Let's put it that way.
So it's hard to say if it was a one thing or it was just a regional name like Maui,
wowie, like creepy.
Even my buddies, everyone thinks about diesel is sour diesel now.
But you know, in the mid 90s or whatever, the only reason why it got called sour diesel
was because the guy wrote our diesel.
Yeah, because diesel was slang for fire weed in New York City in that time.
Yeah, my friends that live there said that you got all kinds of diesels because that
was the name and I think Thunderfuck is a bit like that.
But yeah, yeah.
Have you ever heard of sour diesel being called the cock diesel?
Have you ever heard that?
No.
Okay.
And I've talked to almost everyone at length in the sour diesel original family.
You know, and I never heard cock diesel.
But you know, there you go.
Yeah.
I don't know why that's in my memory bank.
But yeah, that's one of the names in my memory bank.
Maybe that's a secret they kept amongst the boys.
Yeah, just a few of the boys.
Just a few of the boys, you know?
Yeah, just a few.
Just a few of the bros.
Okay, so we're almost two hours in.
And we are only like, a portion of the way through this list.
So it'll probably be a few episodes.
Well, keep it going.
Historical.
Yeah.
I think that'll be fun.
I need to announce a few things.
We have Breeder Syndicate 2.0 up.
So the audio podcast is back.
It's rolling.
A lot of new things are rolling with that.
So it's available on any podcast software.
Make sure you look for the new logo.
It's white and pink right now.
We're developing some other new logos that are pretty cool.
We have a lot of new cool things going on with it.
We have the Breeder Syndicate Patreon where we all hang out.
You can come hang out with us there.
We have a Discord.
We're there all the time taking questions.
For seeds, there's riotseeds.com.
We have my seeds and my reversal spray available.
Natso, anything you want to plug?
I'm not really big on plugging publicly.
I mean, I will say like, as always, that like, I'm super stoked that everybody likes to listen.
We're definitely trying to bring like culture and history.
That's mostly what we're into.
I think a lot of like podcasts end up being sort of like infomercials about people, which
isn't necessarily bad, but like there's a lot more diversity in cannabis world, cannabis
culture, you know, historical that isn't like just about making people look good, you know?
So we are, I always appreciate people coming out, you know?
And you know, you always can reach, you can always reach me through DM on IG.
You can always reach me on, I answer a lot of questions.
I try to get to everyone.
Sometimes I get swamped, you know, I have a life too and stuff like that.
But you know, we are thinking about, you know, one of the reasons why we talk about some
of these old things is that we think they're going to make a comeback, perhaps.
I am thinking about, you know, doing some like, doing some, you know, I've never been
really a public breeder.
And Matt has been trying to convince me to open myself up to lots of criticism and hate
and people throwing things at me.
I write his phone number in every bathroom stall I can.
You know, so people, so, but then there's a lot of things that like, you know, I've
always bred for stuff that I love.
And so I don't know.
I've been thinking about maybe, you know, doing some, doing or releasing some stuff
that might be very different than what is currently out there.
And I don't know if people would be into it or not, but it's always been sort of a, you
know, a passion thing for me or whatever.
So, you know, well, how far did we get on the fucking list, dude?
We got pretty far in, but there's a lot that like people are talking about that I've been
writing down that I want to go back and touch on too.
There was, I will say there was a shit ton of really good questions this week.
A lot of them I missed because it's, you might, it's like rubbing your head and patting your
stomach at the same time.
It's really hard to like talk intelligently in a flowing form and then think about like
four or five cool questions all at the same time that you see scroll by.
So Matt's been taking notes.
We'll try to get, we'll try to expand it.
And this show is, you know, as much as it's about us talking about random weed shit that
we do all week anyway, it's for you guys too.
So hit us up all the time with questions or, you know, or ideas or thoughts on like what
you might want to hear, you know?
Yeah.
And I mean, I'm not, I'm not like that.
That's the whole thing.
You know, Caleb, Matt, other people, they've been trying for years to not only get me to
talk, but to get me to like publicly release stuff.
And it's like, it's kind of a bitch being a public reader.
So I've been kind of hesitant to like open myself up to like a bunch of criticism and
assholes.
Yeah.
But I might, I don't know.
You know, there's a lot of it.
There's a lot of, there's a lot of cool things I think that get passed over with fads.
So, you know, we are almost at two hours, so I don't know.
I mean, maybe we could, we're thinking about having Sean next week.
We could continue this.
We could, you know, two hours is kind of long, but maybe we'll figure out a format to do
the rest of them fairly soon.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I like that idea.
And if you're a part of the Patreon and the Discord and you want to give us some other
ideas for other clones you'd like to hear about from that era, just throw it up in there.
We'll see it.
Yeah.
Yeah, the Discord is definitely a much easier way for us to converse back and forth, especially
individual, you know?
So, you know, you don't have to, but it's easier.
You can always reach out to IG, but sometimes I get buried.
Yeah.
So, there you go.
All right.
Well, thank you everyone.
And yeah.
Yeah, we try to keep it to two hours.
So we'll keep this going.
I'm glad everybody liked chatting about old stuff.
As always, we super appreciate your Friday night and everyone have a killer weekend.
Yeah.
Cheers.
Want more Breeder Syndicate?
Be sure to check out our Patreon by going to Google and searching Breeder Syndicate
Patreon.
We have a secret Discord where we are available at most times and interact daily.
There are a lot of perks to be had there, so check it out.
Need seeds?
Check out RiotSeeds.com where you can get our seeds and our reversal spray for making your
own feminized seeds.
Cheers.
