Ha ha, second time!
Nailed it!
Ha!
Welcome everyone.
I've been trying to nail that.
That's a good one.
I like that one.
That was my friend's band, The Locust.
God, that was 2001 probably.
2001, a good era for, I don't know, electronic punk rock.
How's everyone doing?
What's up, Bicycle?
Everybody check out Get Seed, it's right here, dot com.
He now has the website up and you can find the finest in cannabis strains from Bicycle.
And he's a hell of a guy.
That's my boy.
So what's good, everyone?
Tonight I wanted to talk about, you know, I get asked a lot of the same questions from
episode to episode.
Now that we can finally have these backed up on YouTube, I can actually reference people
to which episode it'll be.
So I wanted to talk about people starting seed companies.
Do's, don'ts, what you should do, what you shouldn't do.
What you should do but might get your fucking balls busted.
All of the above.
So yeah, we'll get into all that.
First off, anybody hear anything weird about Crockett today?
Anybody catch that?
Yeah, I'm stoked on the YouTube backup too.
It'll be nice to have that.
It'll show everyone's questions, et cetera, et cetera.
So Cuban sent you guys here.
Thank you, Cuban.
I love you, brother.
Cuban's going to be going on after me as well.
This is just going to be a one hour thing.
Cuban's going to be after me, so everybody go check out his after this, please.
He's smart kid, man.
Smart kid.
So what happened with Crockett?
I don't know.
It might just be rumors.
I don't know.
I just heard some rumblings and stuff.
Thank you, Johnny.
Thank you, thank you.
You know, I haven't heard the SubTool podcast, but yeah.
Yes, Friday we'll be doing another video with Moon.
We're going to have another episode going, and that one will absolutely be backed up
on YouTube.
So if you missed out on any of those, we might cover some stuff that we covered before.
And I'm sure most of you won't mind that because it was, I mean, it's a thick topic, man.
That's thick science.
It's hard to handle, you know, all in one run.
A lot of people had to watch that like three or four times, and after 24 hours it gets
taken down by Instagram.
Oh yeah, I shaved a little bit.
You like that shit?
You like that shit?
I was looking a little mountain man-y.
So I don't really have much of the rumor.
I was just, I just heard some something.
I just heard something.
Something bad with Crockett happened.
Someone got fired for something and rather, I don't know.
I don't know.
But I was just wondering if you guys heard that, which is why I was asking.
If I knew more, I'd say it.
You know me, I don't give a fuck.
I don't like those motherfuckers anyways.
Spread what you have, meaning a vagina.
Right?
The JJ's for all.
So yeah, there's over 100 people in here right now.
Let's get this party started.
I don't know what happened.
That's why I was asking you guys.
You guys are more knowledgeable than me about this shit.
Especially with the cheese may.
I don't have the gossip man.
I don't have it.
No need to be coy, Roy.
Get off the bus, Gus.
All right.
So what is it?
The word for the day is legs.
Please spread the word.
Oh, killing it.
Freak will be here all week.
Oh, the mask.
I don't know what you're talking about.
The mask.
You talking about my special guest that I have sometimes?
I don't know.
We'll see if a special guest pops up.
So let's talk.
Let's talk about.
Let's talk about new seed companies.
I'm sure there's got to be one person in here who's thinking about starting a seed company.
Where would you guys like me to start?
Like what questions do you have when it comes to that?
You just want me to.
You just want me to start firing off different things.
I actually wrote an article earlier and I was going to put it up on the.
I was going to put it up on the right seats for him.
However, I think Strangely might put it up, but we'll see.
We'll see.
I want I want to see Strangely do well because they are very, very nice guys.
Very nice guys.
It's not like a big corporation doing shit.
You know, these are guys.
These are guys doing this in their spare time just because that's what they want to
do.
You know, they want to have something good going.
No.
Well, I mean, let's see.
What should I do when I ask one and rename your seeds?
Change your name to dirty water.
You should be good.
Where should someone start with their genetics?
Well, that's that's a kind of a weird question.
I mean, I don't know how to answer that one.
As far as start with genetics, get good genetics in the first place.
Do your research.
Know who's making what.
Know who actually has what clone because a lot of things are just claims, man.
A lot of things are just claims.
Actually, you know, you could technically just buy one of all of one of my line and
just rename the whole motherfucker, you know.
But yeah, let me find this article I wrote.
I just want to be able to reference this.
OK.
Rule number one I have here.
Pull up a chair and shut your fucking mouth.
Man, you know, I might have taken some of that advice early on because I was a fucking
loud mouth asshole.
Know it all.
And I definitely did not know everything early on.
You know what I mean?
So but but like when someone when someone comes to talk and I'm not even talking about
me, I'm just talking in general.
If you're on a live feed and someone pops up and it's an old breeder.
Shut your fucking mouth, man, unless you have a good question.
Shut your fucking mouth.
Don't look dumb.
Don't don't look dumb.
If you're starting your career, a lot of people remember everything they see, you know, and
don't remember, hey, that was that dude that was asking how to fucking clone out of his
asshole.
You know, like don't don't don't be dumb.
Don't say dumb shit.
Any genetic profiling to protect your intellectual property.
Actually, I'm working with the Open Cannabis Project on IP protection, IP protection, and
they're doing some fucking awesome things.
They have good lawyers on this.
Yeah.
But let me get back to this real quick.
Yeah, yeah.
Just shut your mouth.
You know, when an old school breeder comes up.
That's your chance, man.
That's your chance to like get that get that power up like on Super Mario Brothers.
You know, it's your chance to absorb it like a sponge.
Take that.
Take that chance, man.
Listen to what they have to say.
There's a lot of guys who have a lot of amazing shit to say.
Let's see what we got.
Breeding number two.
Number two.
I did tell you not to use protection.
I'm sorry.
Breeding is a fucking science.
There is an actual science to this.
There are fucking terms that have actual definitions.
Don't be one of those people who uses the term IBL and not know what the fucking IBL
is, right?
No F1s, no F2s, no back crosses.
Know that in crosses are a thing, but know the appropriate time to use them.
There's a science to this.
And believe it or not, there are other things besides weed that people grow that they've
been growing for a long time that also have breeding terms associated with it as well.
And that's where we have somewhat borrowed and we have changed some of the breeding terms
because some of those don't apply to cannabis.
But definitely understand all those inside out.
If you want a good place to start, don't start with the fucking forum.
Don't start with reading what some other fucking breeder like Mel Van says or whoever.
If people are using IBL in their lines and it's not CSI Humboldt, it's not me, it's not
Professor P, chances are they don't know what a fucking IBL is, guaranteed.
Don't slap that on the end of your fucking shit if you're a new breeder.
You don't know what it means.
Learn how to write.
I actually did this earlier.
The book list, Robert Connell Clark, Marijuana Botany, that's all you ever need to know as
far as books.
You really don't need more than that.
DJ Short's book, I can't remember the title.
It's good for learning about specific Mexican lines.
But I mean, other than that, when it comes to straight breeding, you don't need more
than Robert Connell Clark's Marijuana Botany.
Learn how to write cannabis genetic nomenclature.
Female, ex, male.
Female, ex, female, parentheses reversed.
Use your brackets.
Brackets are your friends.
Parentheses are your friends.
There's a reason that those are there.
People don't just throw those in there to make it look pretty and more established.
Use them correctly.
It makes you look more intelligent and it genuinely gets you respect from your peers
better.
All right.
Breeding has a purpose.
Part three.
Breeding has a fucking purpose.
If you are crossing two things just to see what happens and you don't really know what's
going to happen because you've never grown those lines before, that's not breeding.
That's seed making.
Now with that said, it's possible to be a seed maker and a breeder.
And in fact, it's advisable to do both because people need that new shiny fucking thing.
And it's hard to stay relevant in the cannabis community if you are not doing both.
And that's just a fact.
I mean, it really is.
If you're not constantly pushing out new lines, it's hard to stay relevant.
So push out new lines, do your thing, but work some lines in the background.
Get to know what it's like to watch plants evolve.
Let's see what else we got here.
But yeah, breed with a purpose.
Say this is my end goal.
I want something that is short with fucking dense structure, but I don't want to deal
with PM.
And maybe some purple would be nice.
Then look in your toolbox, see what you have to create that.
Make that shit happen.
Sometimes it'll take several generations, but when you do that, you'll have some true
breeding lines in the end.
And that's the most valuable thing you can have in your toolkit as far as a breeder goes.
Let's see what else we got.
Now we're at permissions.
It's probably the question I get asked about the most.
Permissions.
The number one determiner in all this stuff is did you pay for the seeds?
That's something you need to take into account when thinking about all this stuff.
Short stout and stinky fucking motherfucker.
It's true.
It's true.
It is true.
I'm a pig pen.
I have a little cloud when I walk around.
If you paid for the seeds, different rules apply.
I mean, if you are a tester, you definitely need to ask permission from that breeder and
it needs to be clear before you use those seeds.
If you didn't pay for those, they're a gift or whatever, ask permission.
If you paid for them, realistically, you should be able to do what you want except for direct
copying.
That's not okay in any industry.
Why should it be okay in this industry?
Breeding is an art.
And if someone is taking your art, changing the name on it, like wiping off your name,
writing their name on it, and signing it with a new name, that's fucked.
Right?
That's fucked.
That doesn't fly anywhere.
But if you're making an F1 hybrid, let's say, and you're using two different breeders' work,
if you paid for those seeds, you really don't necessarily have to ask them for their work,
but you should.
You should.
It's proper.
It's polite.
You'll get more respect from those people whose work you're using.
You'll definitely get more respect.
And name check those motherfuckers later.
Shout out some props to them.
That's the way it's done, man.
That's the way you get respect from everyone, your elders and everyone that came before
you.
You got to pay your dues.
You have to pay your dues.
However, if you ask and they say no, and you bought those motherfuckers, and you're not
doing a direct copy, it's up to you.
It depends on how much heat you want.
Some breeders get more upset about that than others, right?
As far as the make your own mail thing, that's nice and dandy, but again, it's not an obligation
to do that.
You're still trying to get Bodhi's permission?
I don't think Bodhi cares so much, man.
He's one of the most open breeders there are as far as people working with his stuff.
When I say direct copy, I mean S1 or Fgen.
Let's see.
When is it okay to Fgen?
And if you don't understand what Fgen is, refer back to rule two and get the book Robert
Connell Clark Marijuana Botany.
That'll help you learn those terms.
When is it okay to Fgen?
If a company is no longer around.
If a company is no longer around and there's no foreseeable future for them coming back
around, it usually is okay, especially when a line is really hard to find and there's
a lot of people that want it in their collection and there's a chance a line could be lost.
Then it's not just okay, it's really advisable to do that.
We don't want to start losing lines because so many have been lost already because of
stuff like that.
In the case of, let's choose the Brothers Grimm situation.
They left.
There was no foreseeable future of them coming back.
A lot of people made C99 Fgens, Apollo 11 Fgens, Apollo 13.
That made sense.
A lot of those lines were hard to get even back then.
They were expensive.
A lot of people did what they could to save those lines.
If it's from Keyplane and you want to use it, shoot yourself because you shouldn't be
using fucking bullshit from that idiot.
That's when it's okay to Fgen without permission.
Some of those guys aren't even around to ask permission for.
Or in the case of a clone only where the breeder is not determined.
You need to do your due diligence to make sure that the breeder is not determined.
There's some pretty obvious candidates out there that nobody knows who bred it, bad seed,
etc.
Rule five, respect, man.
Respect.
Don't give respect where they haven't earned it.
There's a lot of motherfuckers that haven't earned respect that have been around a while.
Doesn't mean they have respect.
A lot of these guys have respect from customers and not even to their own customers.
Respect from people buying seeds because they're on the attitude or whatever seed bank and
they're getting hype.
But they don't have the respect of their peers.
What you want, your ultimate goal if you really want to be a breeder is the respect of your
fucking peers.
Do you have the respect of your peers?
Do the people that you interact with, do the people that you respect, respect you?
That's major, man.
That's major.
Number six, this is probably one of the most important and I should have probably listed
as number one.
Come with thick fucking skin.
You're not going to make it if you get your feelings hurt.
I'm telling you what, it's really, really hard to make it in this industry.
It's even more cutthroat than it used to be.
People say shit about you and if they have enough fucking people listening to them, those
people will say shit about you.
They'll post it everywhere.
A lot of these guys have all the time on their hand to do this shit, man.
Lots of retirees or disabled people or not necessarily disabled people but people on
workman's comp or whatever.
They have time to do this shit and they will fucking try to crush you.
People don't like competition.
People do not like competition and they will try to ruin you.
So get some thick fucking skin.
When I came to this, I thought I had thick fucking skin but there was years where I was
fucking completely doubting everything that I did and I shouldn't have ever let anybody
have that effect on me.
But it's hard, man.
It's hard.
So when you get trolled, once you start getting a following and you get trolled, take it as
a compliment.
For reals, take it as a compliment.
That means you're doing something that's stirring people's emotions.
If you're being a fuckhead and you're getting trolled, that's a different thing.
But for the most part, if you're doing some good shit for people and people are liking
it, and you're still getting trolled, take it as a compliment.
A lot of these guys that do troll people just want you to recognize them.
They just want your attention, be it negative or positive.
Kind of like little retarded kids.
They'll slap you to get your attention and go, you know?
Kind of like that.
Yeah, that's what I got for the rules in general.
Is there anything anybody has any questions about?
To my paper, one pet my paper.
I mean, Jaws did a great job of making himself popular off trolling me and that was only
because I responded to his shit.
So there's a time and place to respond.
Sometimes I suck at just not...
Sometimes I do respond too much and I've been trying to weigh that reaction better.
What's wrong with Cookie Mane?
I haven't figured that out, man.
I haven't figured that out.
What are the unwritten rules now?
Give Matt everything for free.
Be it lights, be it nutrients.
Just give me shit.
Just give me free shit.
I like free shit.
What's up, Jax?
What's the best way to collect money for seeds?
I can't go into detail on that since that's an illegality, you know?
And I don't want to set myself up.
But there's ways to do it.
I don't recommend PayPal.
PayPal is fucking terrible and they like to steal your money on a moral clause.
So I don't recommend that.
Do reversals cause more harms?
No.
Only if an idiot's doing a reversal and they haven't properly assessed their lines.
What was your question, Jax?
I saw something pop up but every time I pop from here to somewhere else, it turns off
my screen so I couldn't answer.
I saw something about God's gift and something else.
What do you consider strains built off hype, not good breeding?
No, I mean there are strains that absolutely deserve the hype.
You know, and that are good breeding but there's plenty that aren't.
Yeah, send out tons of free gear.
That's how you get people to like you.
Alright guys, let's help my friend Jacqueline decide.
Fire OG or lemon meringue or God's gift?
I'm going to say no on the God's gift.
I don't know much about lemon meringue.
Other people.
Well, I take that back.
That's right.
You never smoke but you want to try.
Go for something light.
Go for God's gift.
Go for something light.
And when I say take a little tiny hit at a time, wait 10 minutes, take another little
tiny hit, I'm being serious.
It's not like when we were young and smoking pot.
It's nothing like it.
It's called micro dosing and it works great with cannabis when you don't have a tolerance.
So go for something light.
Yeah, Fire OG will fuck her up.
It will fuck her day up if it's grown well.
So yeah, definitely go for something light.
Okay, I'll be around.
I got, uh, yeah, let me know how it goes.
Do you think if someone finds a cut in someone else's seeds or bag seed that passes it around,
do you think the person that found it should say what is done with it?
Let's see.
Do you think if someone finds a cut in someone else's seeds or bag seed that passes it around,
do you think the person that found it should say what is done with it?
That's a good question, man.
I mean, I think, I think both people should have a say, but that doesn't always happen.
Exactly, man.
I remember when I quit smoking for two years.
I was dating a fucking retard and she didn't want me smoking despite what I do for a living.
So I played in and, uh, I'm not referring to Brynn in any way, by the way.
Brynn's great.
But, um, yeah, man, uh, the first time smoking again, it's just like that first high and
some shit's too much, man.
Have you curled up in the corner and a little ball crying?
That's no fun.
And that's no fun at all.
Have you ever made something so dank you didn't want to release it?
No.
Um, I want people to have good weed.
I want to have the best weed out there.
Of course I'll release it.
Um, there were times where I wouldn't release cuts of stuff, but I would release weed of
it and, uh, clockwork being the main one with that.
And it was just because I didn't want it to get ripped off.
But eventually that's going to happen anyways.
If it's good enough, if your weed is good enough, it will get ripped off.
And that's part of the process.
But the thing I just tell myself is these guys are still going to be working with my
tailings.
I'm just a few years behind me.
So whatever.
God's gift, starting God's gift was at GDP and OG.
I think GDP OG, isn't that God's gift?
Um, most God's gift cuts like the Sonoma God's gift cut out there.
That's the original was the Sonoma God's gift.
And it was kind of leafy and, um, very non long, narrow leaves.
It wasn't very frosty, not very great.
Um, but for its time it was okay.
What's the best strain for consistent piney turps?
Uh, don't know.
I'm not big on the pines.
Um, how do I get some seeds to you if you would ever like something?
Uh, I need to get a PO box.
I really do.
Um, but, uh, just DM me man, DM me.
What if you make a known strain with different sourced parents?
What do you mean?
Um, if you recreate a strain with different parents, like, uh, let's say it's fire OG
cross to abusive OG, let's say, and you use those same two cuts to make a line, that's
yours, man.
You do whatever the fuck you want with it.
There's different ways to paint the same picture.
You know what I mean?
And not, and once those strains are acclimated to your room, what you make is going to be
different than what is presented, especially when it comes to selection.
You know what I mean?
If you do a selection from that specific cross, it'll be different than the selection that's
available as a clone only.
There you go.
Snowcat for pine turps.
I don't know much about snowcat.
Did you like that?
I rock you just mad cause your face is longer than the fucking donkeys.
Uh, Bodhi is one of my good friends.
I recommend everything that he does.
The guy's a fucking magician.
He's, he is the wizard of weed.
Um, so you're in good hands with anything from the guy, man.
Just look at the description, see if it appeals to you and try it.
And, and, and if it works for you, that's great.
If not, move to the next.
That's what growers do.
We adapt.
Is P91 classed as a skunk?
P91, it would be classed more as an Afghani-Thai hybrid.
Um, Williams Wonder cross to, I think, no, hold on.
What was that?
It was, it was, it was silverback Thai cross to, I always forget the other part.
I'll have to look.
Have you found any skunky ones in the green suicide?
Absolutely.
In all of that, in anything I use the, the roadkill Afghani, uh, male with, you're going
to find some skunky phenotypes in it.
It's very, very heavy with skunky phenotypes.
Uh, Bodhi is an amazing dude.
I can't say that about a lot of people, but I can absolutely say that about him.
He's, he's, when my company almost crashed, when I got a really fucked up disease from
the Philippines, a plant disease, Bodhi made sure that my, my business did not crash.
And I, I could never say anything bad about the guy because of that.
And not only because of that, he is at his base, a good person.
What's my favorite strain?
I have a lot of favorite strains.
Um, it just depends on the time, the day, my mood, et cetera.
Bodhi is one of my favorite human beings, uh, not just breeder, but one of my favorite
human beings on this earth.
What to expect from platinum alien orange cookies.
Uh, do you, are you familiar with the, the, uh, the orange cookies from obsolete?
I'm a, I'm a grower, not a shower, definitely not a shower grower.
Um, alien orange cookies.
Are you familiar with it?
The orange cookies.
There's a, uh, an astringent phenotype in the line that is crazy frosty, really dense.
And it's, it's the, the one phenotype I found that didn't fucking Herm.
Tell Lupa to come on right now while we still have some time to old man to get on.
I'd love to have them on any time.
I love the looms.
Bring them on.
Um, uh, but it has like an astringent, like almost, it's not even really that orange,
the phenotype that I picked, but it's very astringent, very fucking frosty, very dense.
And it breathes very well.
Um, that mixed with my platinum banana male that passes over banana turps, like artificial
banana turps, you'll find everything in there and in between.
If I could recommend one of my strains to pop a pack, what would it be?
It depends on the person's grower, uh, level.
Orange cookies was full of fucking Herms.
It took a long time to find a single cut that didn't pass on Herm traits.
It was fucking really hard to find.
Um, it made it worth it to spend money on all those packs.
However, yeah.
Um, pretty much anything with Calio has some issues.
Uh, skunk number one crossed with the female P91 with Thai male is, is it skunky all maybe
just a little.
Let's see.
19 years, get back crossed with the fem of P91 with Thai male.
I'm kind of confused on what you're asking.
Um, you know, psychedelic effect really depends on your own brain chemistry.
Uh, what might be psychedelic for me and trippy for me may not have that effect for you.
So it's really hard to say.
Um, there are certain lines that are known to have that effect for a majority of people,
be it Malawi, uh, different Malawi is different Africans, but yeah.
Alien technology is in the alien orange cookies, I believe.
Um, I'm pretty sure aliens, orange cookies.
I don't remember, but, um, yeah, it's good shit, man.
That orange cookies cut is amazing, but I don't recommend running the seeds cause you
will have a long hunt in front of you.
What made me keep popping packs when you get herms?
I understand cannabis science and, and, and how plants work.
Everything needs some acclimation to an extent.
There are some lines that her more than others.
And that just means the lines are not as happy in their current environment as other lines
would be.
Some lines adapt better.
Um, knowing that full well, if you find like one in 30 that aren't a herm, it's still usually
passes on her traits when you breed with it.
That's why you have to run the progeny yourself to make sure that that, that trait didn't
pass on.
Yes.
Did an original alien cookie strain.
Correct.
I didn't release it.
Um, I, I let some out to a few different people.
The strongest RKS terps would be the Araluma Afghani S ones.
That to me had the strongest, uh, the Skunkspray chem was really loved for its, uh, uh, Skunkspray
terps as well.
Uh, was never really into peyote purple for crossing.
I already had Bubba's that I was working with.
Yeah, exactly.
I mean, the herm issue just drives me nuts.
I see people complaining about herms and what that tells to me.
First, when you see someone say, man, I grew like 10 packs and everything's a fucking herm
that says more about the person growing than it does the, whoever seeds he ran, uh, an
experienced grower gets that should be able to hear that and go, Whoa, you got a fucking
problem, dude.
It's not that common to have that many fucking herms.
Um, but even then, man, like if you're a grower, you're supposed to be able to adapt this shit.
That's what good growers do.
You see a herm, you catch that shit early cause you pay attention to your plants.
Pay attention to your fucking plants.
Don't fucking bitch.
It's a part of growing cannabis is an intersex plant by nature.
You know what I mean?
So just handle your shit, handle your business.
It makes you look like a bitch when you cry.
So yeah.
I mean if you, if you spent thousands on a line and you have not found anything that
won't harm and you're not the only person having this problem, then there's a problem
and it needs to be addressed.
Exactly.
You know what I mean?
That's how it goes.
Um, but nine out of 10 times it's going to be because it's not happy in your room.
Let it acclimate, take a clone from a clone from a clone.
If that line is good enough to put that much time into and you really see some potential
in it, but it still has herms clone from a clone from a clone acclimate, it'll probably
not happen again.
Nine times out of 10 it won't happen again.
Uh, limelight is not, is not a massive yielder.
It's one of the Jack Harris that has a smaller yield compared to a typical Jack Harris.
Um, but the resin production makes up for its yield tenfold, especially if you're an
extract artist and the lime, the lime skunk is, is insane.
The lime skunk combo is insane.
I loved it.
Seven questions, different feed.
Yup.
What's your thought on breeders or even new school breeders making profits off S ones
from kick ass clones like Lemon Tree, TK, Topanga, Kim dog, other than getting beat
up?
Um, there's a, there's a time and place for S ones.
Uh, you know, I can't, I can't really call people out for that because I mean early on
in my career, that's what I did.
I would, I would reverse plants and cross them to popular clone on the hybrids.
Back then clones didn't get sent around the country as often.
Things were a lot more rare.
So at that time there was a high demand for it.
Um, apparently now there's still a high demand for it.
Uh, I just wish like when people S one Lemon Tree, they'd call it what it is.
It's fucking lemon diesel, you know, you know, get the names right at least.
Um, Topanga Canyon, I don't even know who's responsible for that.
So I don't see a problem with S one in that.
Chem 91, that's a different story.
That's a different story.
Um, we know who is responsible for that one.
Um, the fact that he isn't kicked down anything, be it seeds or anything, um, that's a shame,
you know?
So when I see Chem 91 S ones, I kind of, that, that does kind of irk me.
Um, yeah.
Would you say polyhybridization is a reason for more harms occurring?
No, I would say it's from bad growers feeding their plants like tomatoes.
But yeah, I mean when it comes to, when it comes to people in reverse hybrids, I, especially
if it's a hybrid, I, I think it's awesome, especially if they know what they're doing
and they're good at it.
You know what I mean?
If they're doing it right, why not?
Um, then again, I don't do a lot of reverse lines anymore.
I sell the spray, but I tend to stick with regulars just because I, it's just what I
like doing.
Um, it costs a lot more money to make reverse, to do, to do reversals.
It costs a lot more money, uh, less pollen.
Um, people don't realize how much more of a process it is.
Love you, Stray.
I still gotta send you your fucking dab tools.
Still have them here for you.
Uh, yeah.
Um, I have my press, but I haven't put it up because of the landlord walkthrough shit.
So yeah, I haven't done it.
I haven't put anything up or used it because of that.
Uh, it's going to be a fucking hectic week.
I'll tell you that much.
It's already been crazy trying to get all this shit done.
Why do people get so much shit for making S1s?
That's a good question.
And I think it's, um, I think it's just misinformation.
For a long time, everybody was saying, Oh, S1s Herm.
Feminized C term.
They Herm.
A lot of the time what people were seeing and they were calling Herms from reversals
were males.
True males in a line.
What's up Mean Gene?
I want to bring Mean Gene on the show too.
I want to have you on the show.
I have so many people I want to have on.
What's the difference between your Heirloom Afghani and a Roadkill Skunk?
Well, I had a Roadkill Afghani and that was my Heirloom Afghani cross to Sour Dove.
And I also did a version where it was the male Afghani that passed on the Skunk trait
cross to Sour Dove as the female.
The main difference is one has the Sour Dove in it and the other doesn't.
Sour Dove did great at passing on Skunk Terps.
It already has kind of a skunky Terp to it.
When I grow it anyways, it's very skunky, but not super, super skunky.
But because of that little bit of skunk, it really, really absorbs the skunk when crossed.
And that's cool to see.
Very underrated line.
Very underrated cut.
Oh man, I wanted to be at the San Bernardino Cup this weekend.
My friend Bike's going to be there, but I don't know if I'm going to be able to make
it because of all the landlord shit going on.
It's fucking me in the ass.
Not too stoked about it.
Meme Gene!
Meme Gene!
That guy slays it with the memes.
Have you ever used an S1 male in a breeding project?
Once.
In the Clockwork Piff.
And it was phenomenal.
Had a higher female to male ratio, which is kind of cool.
That was the only time I did it.
It was an experiment and it turned out to be good.
I don't like using S1 males too much.
Did you ever hit the Afi with the reverse cut?
I never got around to it, man.
I had a lot of trouble with the Afi.
Still having some trouble with it.
I just lost the mom.
I have one single cut of it left trying to root right now.
I'm going to do my best to get it to Mooney to do some tissue culture with.
Or, who else?
DSG Labs, one of those guys.
I'm giving them to tissue culture it just so it doesn't get lost.
It's an important line.
But it's not very vigorous.
The seeds were super fucking old.
It's slow but god damn it has amazing turbs.
How are my Macs looking?
They're still young, man.
I've kept them in small pots just because I was trying to finish this last run.
Right now, I don't know what the future is for... the immediate future is anyway for that.
What is dumpster?
It's usually a big box outside of a convenience store.
Moon is the boss.
Mooney is the boss.
That guy is a tissue culture fucking genius.
Do the strawberry switchbait like to be bushed out or left alone?
It depends on where you're growing it and how you're growing it.
It grows completely different outdoors than it does indoors.
The turps also change.
Do you ever cut off male shoots with pollen sacks about to open and isolate them to collect
the pollen?
Yeah, that can definitely be a method for collecting pollen.
Cut off a big branch, stick it in some water like a water cup so it's easier to collect
the pollen as opposed to trying to move a tree around.
Yeah, that's a definite good option for it.
I remember the story about dumpsters.
Someone saw a cannabis plant that had been tossed or a seedling or something that had
been tossed right by a dumpster so they picked it up, kept it, and whatever.
That's the story I remember hearing.
I don't know how accurate that is, but that was the Cannabible story if I remember correctly.
Anyone got the real Purple Kush or Grape Ape from CompG?
I have the SR-71 Purple Kush, which is so close to Urkel, it's ridiculous.
And what's the other one?
Grape Ape?
I don't have Grape Ape anymore.
Bodhi ran that a lot and I used to run it.
I made Grape Ape S1s.
I made a Grape Ape Sour Bubble Cross back in the day, but I don't keep the Grape Ape
anymore.
It's very similar again to Urkel with slightly more narrow leaves.
Indoor with LED on the switchblade?
I really couldn't tell you.
I've never grown under LEDs at all, so I don't know how she'll react.
She is a very... the switchblade is very lanky.
Very lanky, so keep that in mind.
Very lanky.
It stretches a lot in flower.
Those underdog Urkels are some of the most dank shit on earth.
I gotta tell ya.
I got to tell ya.
What was the deal with reversing the Uptown Piff to make S1s?
Wasn't there restrictions on that?
The only restriction that I had was that I couldn't release it pure.
I didn't reverse any piffs.
I had the H1, the H2.
H1 being the Frankie type.
H2 being the Mango piff.
But I was never allowed to release it pure.
That was the only thing I was never allowed to fucking do.
I kinda wish I would've just done it just to do a seed increase so I didn't ever lose
it.
So yeah.
I don't know, man.
But I just didn't want to piss off a bunch of Dominicans.
That's not the way to go is have a bunch of Dominican gangsters pissed at you.
Loud Watermelon Turps.
Afgooey is the first thing I think of when I think of melon.
Like a blue melon type.
I've seen some watermelon Skittles that didn't have the watermelon turps.
It was more sweet.
Afgooey definitely had melon.
What about the watermelon hash plant from Bodhi?
I believe that had some watermelon phenotypes as well.
Very hard to grow indoor, but definitely had the watermelon turps.
You know what?
I figure if I keep doing these, eventually more sales will come.
So I guess that's a way of getting paid.
It's fun though, man.
I like interacting with everyone and it makes me happy when my friends come in.
You know?
Like, we can just shoot the shit and talk shit.
I mean, this is what I love.
I love talking genetics.
I could do it all day.
Sour Bubble as in Gorilla?
I have never heard of Gorilla Bubble.
I'm talking about Sour Bubble as in Sour Bubble.
It's a bubblegum line from Bog.
Twitch gets you paid?
I need to look into that shit.
I think I'm the last, the furthest thing from a cannabis therapist.
I'm too chaotic.
People don't need that shit.
Yeah, you can ask about springtails.
Does anybody here know anything about springtails?
I know absolutely nothing about springtails.
But does anybody here have any experience with springtails?
My friend here, Beard Ed, is having a little issue with springtails and he wants to know
what to do with them.
Like, are they beneficial?
Are they all beneficial?
Is there a chance it could cause root problems?
I don't know who's going to be at San Bernardino and I know that selling seeds is going to
be an issue in San Bernardino.
It's not like it was even a few months ago.
Yes, go to CSI Humboldt for the underdog Erkle.
Definitely.
Was she just giving multiple micro supplements like Mammoth?
Yeah, definitely.
Feed your autos just like you would a normal plant when it starts to flower.
Adjust and cut nitrogen.
There you go.
There you go, Beard Ed.
Message Crybaby Organics about the springtails.
He's fucking an amazing brain for this business.
An amazing brain.
What's the fucking deal with sell and seeds?
What's that?
Yes, there is a problem selling seeds.
It shows now.
Especially in California because they're saying that the California Med Board is going to
be going around checking everyone's licenses to sell said seeds.
If you're selling without a license, you're going to have a fucking problem.
You're going to be on a big radar you don't want to be on.
Best place to pick up CSI Humboldt seeds?
I don't have an answer for that.
I don't know.
I'll ask him and get back to you on a future feed.
What nutrients do I use?
I use God right now.
What am I using?
NPK raw.
I mean, it's just really it tends to be whatever I have around as long as it has the correct
NPK values that I need.
I can use a plethora of different nutrients.
I don't need a line spelled out for me.
It's very, very simple.
Feeding cannabis plants is extremely simple.
So so simple.
Nitrogen with low PK in veg.
High nitrogen, low PK like a 511.
In bloom, you would be closer to a 155 or 055.
Add CalMag.
Add some beneficials.
Add some what's that stuff called that I like a lot?
Monosilicic acid.
You can you can add in some B vitamins.
You know what I mean?
Like, it's not too complex.
And then carbs, carbs, carbs and flour as well.
It's not complex.
The whole hydroponic industry was based on people.
It's like a bunch of used car salesman, man.
Yeah, seed guy got to have a nursery permit.
Gene knows.
Yeah.
So yeah, I think I think the Emerald Cup was the last big rodeo.
I don't recommend Seed Vault because I've watched them rip people off before and then
change their name to Seed Vault.
Have you heard the term unlocking your plant potential?
I've heard it, but I mean, that could mean any number of things, you know.
I like the term grow with your plant.
Don't just grow your plant, grow with your plant.
I like that a lot because it's very true.
Grow with your plant.
How did I get the virus out of my room when I lost everything?
I didn't lose everything, but most of everything got hit.
I had to start from scratch.
Lots of bleach, throw a lot away.
Really, really use some hardcore chems back then to try to eradicate whatever it was happening.
I just hit it with my my black death potion.
And that's only to be used in the most extreme circumstances when you have like the last
of the last of a cut in existence in the world and people are relying on you to keep it alive.
That's when you use the black death.
You don't flower ever from that plant.
You need a clone of a clone of a clone of a clone to do that.
But yeah.
What virus?
What did it look like?
Okay.
The best way I can describe this, and I'm going to tell you right now, it wasn't fucking
powdery mildew.
It wasn't any kind of normal mold spore.
It didn't really react to mold to mold treatments.
It looked like a male hit my whole room and a layer of pollen was sitting on all the leaves.
You could wash it off.
It would go away.
You come back two hours later and there it was again.
It was fucking weird.
It was weird.
So I trusted a dude from the Philippines to send me a clone.
And what exists in the Philippines doesn't necessarily exist in the American cannabis
world.
And what the clone was that I got it from, I didn't see anything too shaky on it, you
know.
But it may have already built up a resistance being a Filipino land race.
So yeah, that's wild.
I tried everything with it and eventually the last two cuts were saved.
But I had to go get clockwork back from someone else.
I had to get a lot of stuff back from other people I'd passed it to.
And if you've been in that situation, you know how hard that can be.
All right.
I need to get ready for the giveaway.
So here's how the giveaway works.
Go like the post that I posted earlier that announced this exact.
Yeah, Danny.
Danny 08.
That motherfucker.
Go like this post that announced this live feed.
If you like it, you're in it for the sheet.
The free sheet.
I'll be sending out some unreleased stuff that I did and that I'm really stoked about.
Stuff that I've never released before.
So you'll be eligible as long as you like that thing.
And Brin will throw your names into a random generator and it'll pick one and that's who
gets it.
So I wanted to announce that before I close anything down.
I don't know when the alerts going to pop up, but I imagine kind of soon.
So yeah, I want I want someone to get that.
So throw your throw your your shit in a hat, man.
And no one's not eligible.
I mean, unless you want it in the past two times, please don't join it because you're
already getting shit.
But I want everyone to be eligible for this.
Yeah.
So again, go like the post that announced tonight's live feed.
And that's the best way to do it.
For those who don't know yet, my life feeds are now going to be on YouTube.
I put the one from.
What's up, Firefina?
How you doing, brother?
I put the one from last night up on YouTube, so that's there.
And this one will be up on YouTube as well.
I love that term cut of their jib.
Did you know that a jib is a sail?
And it was an old sailor's term when you like the cut of someone's jib.
I mean, you like the cut of their sail.
Little did little did you know?
You may have known, but I feel smarter saying it.
YouTube does blow, but it's the only way you can rewatch this video or watch it for the
first time if you miss it.
So I want to make sure that people can have access to this stuff.
The YouTube link, go look up Riot Seed Co. on YouTube.
I believe that's my name on YouTube.
You corny fuck.
Yeah.
Riot Seed Co.
Look up, I think it's Riot Seed's podcast or something like that.
Riot Seed's live feed.
And it should show up.
There's only one up there right now.
Mooney will be doing another live feed this Friday.
So if you missed any of the tissue culture stuff, we're going to review a lot of that
so we can save it and put it up on YouTube.
So definitely come check those out.
I can't tell you how rare it is to have someone with Mooney's experience that teaches all
of the guys who own and run the big labs.
Come and give you this information for free.
That guy makes thousands and thousands and thousands per hour per consults.
So definitely, definitely, definitely come check it out, man.
And like I said, when it comes to him, it's the only time I ask you bring your fucking
A game.
Bring your A game.
It's just important, man.
It shows a nice level of respect when you've done your research and you come in here and
you don't ask crazy shit.
That you could ask some nerd at a fucking hydroponic store.
Save the questions for the nerds at the hydroponic store that you couldn't ask me or Mooney otherwise.
You know what I mean?
So any more questions?
Time isn't out yet.
Let's get the questions going.
Oh, also, when this is over, go to my buddy, Other Cuban Breeders live feed.
Watch him learn some shit.
How many of these folks would get together if 10 or 15 of us breeders?
I think a lot of people would do it, man.
It's just a matter of getting us together to do it in one area where we can all make
it.
Do you believe Adam Dunn's bubblegum story?
No.
I definitely think tissue culture is a future and a method that will either stop or prolonged
drift.
Yep.
Tissue culture is the way of the future.
It absolutely is.
Cloning is going to be a thing of the past.
And there will always be a place for cloning, for quick clones.
But tissue culture is the way of the future.
Gibrelic acid versus STS for feminizing.
I would think GA3 would work better.
And you are incorrect.
GA3 is much less effective.
GA3 is great for stretching plants.
However, GA3 doesn't necessarily block ethylene on its own.
You need something that's not only going to increase gibberelic acid in the plant,
but will also block ethylene.
And that's where STS comes into play.
You have a DNA holy grail.
I wouldn't even admit that shit out loud, freak.
I wouldn't admit that shit out loud.
Ownin' some DNA shit.
Yeah, man.
It's a matter of trying to get us all together in the same spot.
That's all it is, man.
There are plenty of us that get along that are very educated that can do a show together.
It's a matter of getting us to a place where we'll travel to.
Because frankly, we're a bunch of fucking hermits.
We're a bunch of fucking hermits.
For real.
Total fucking hermits.
And we don't get out very often.
Most of us can't leave our plants long enough to get away that long.
Is cult classics RKS for me?
I don't think so.
I don't know where theirs is from.
Yeah, come to me.
Let's throw one in Bakersfield and I'll get arrested.
It would be awesome.
You know, I'm waiting for Subcool to come on.
I've been waiting since April 1st and for some reason he hasn't gotten back to me.
Oh, wait.
I think...
Is that Subcool?
Dude, is Subcool coming?
Hold on.
Subcool, where are you?
Hey, man, I'm dying.
I'm fucking dying.
The doctor told me I couldn't get a fucking transplant because I'm not dying, but I'm
telling you what, I'm still fucking dying and it's while I'm an asshole.
Thanks for coming, Sub.
Thanks for coming by.
Thanks for coming by, Subcool.
Stay chill, brother.
And that was a true statement from him.
So yeah.
I wasn't just saying that to be mean.
That is actually what happened.
I went to the doctor to get a lung transplant and they said, dude, you're not that bad.
Come back later to even get on the list.
So anybody who talks about him dying or using the excuse for him dying, we are all fucking
dying.
We've all been dying since the day we were born.
And I don't think he's any much fucking closer than I am with my fat ass.
What do I think the OG bag seed came from?
I would say skunk, super skunk of some sort crossed with probably tie.
Super skunk tie could probably recreate that or super skunk Mexican tie.
Anyone else notice that Sub wears the same?
Yeah, well, meth does that.
Meth does that.
OG came from Bog.
I'll never forget that one.
What else we got?
What else we got?
But yeah, Blackbeard have have have Lupa come on, man.
With me, man, me and Lupa do good playing off each other.
It's funny.
I was one of the best Adam Dunn shows ever when it was me and Lupa just being fucking
crazy.
Well, I was being crazy because I was high on a lot of Xanax and that that's for real.
I was a little fucked up, used a few choice words, kind of being stupid, wasn't making
much sense.
But yeah.
Lemon tree.
Oh, gee, I'm not sure what lemon tree is.
Is that the same thing as lemon tree?
But the original lemon diesel is lemon tree and it wasn't super, super airy.
It might be too much CalMag or nitrogen in the feeding.
I know it doesn't like that like most most most narrow leaf dominant plants won't.
What happened?
Crybaby, did I miss your question?
Oh, we got a minute remaining.
I wasn't even paying attention.
One minute remaining.
Bum bum bum bum bum.
What's up, Loops?
Next time, come on earlier.
And we could do a show because because our shit's funny.
Anyway, yep, everyone, if you want to get in for the fucking giveaway, go like the fucking
go like the post I did about this show.
Throw your name in a hat.
Get some unreleased shit.
Loops, tomorrow, let's do a show together.
Oh, wait, where's my outro?
