Welcome to Breeder's Syndicate, where we explore the history of a clan-destined scene
through the eyes of the folks who lived it.
I'm Matthew, owner of Riot Seeds.
I'll occasionally be joined by my co-host, NotSoDog, breeder and grower from Mendocino.
Welcome to the underground.
Hello everyone, welcome to Breeder's Syndicate, where we cover strain history.
My guest today is The Rev from Kingdom Organic Seeds.
Welcome brother, nice to see you.
Thanks man, good to be here.
Long time we haven't talked, so we're going to catch up a lot on everything you've been
doing, everything that you've done for the people who are new to you, and where we're
going from there.
So let's start off, dude.
What started The Rev on his cannabis adventure?
Well, I guess I was about, this would have been about 1975, I guess, you know.
I planted my first weed ever, and my mom ended up killing it, right?
Oh, right.
My mom was so mad at me.
So I was so pissed that my beautiful plants got killed.
I had about a half a pound baggie, about a quarter full of seeds.
I went out in the backyard the next day and I just spread them everywhere, right?
So a dicondra lawn of cannabis came up.
My parents freaked out and we eventually struck a deal where I could grow four plants.
Oh, wow.
They gave in.
Yeah, well, I just overrode them, you know?
Yeah, dude.
And so I was jazzed about that.
So I grew up in my mom's backyard for a couple of years after that.
I was an idiot.
I didn't know what I was doing, but I grew some giant freaking plants, you know?
I bet.
And then, you know, my dad, he was a hydroponic experiment scientist guy.
He loved hydroponics.
Oh, wow.
My mom was on the other end of the scale.
She was fully organic.
I mean, you know, as organic as you could be back in 1970s.
So they each had their own input to me.
So I learned hydroponics really well, really fast, the whole dynamic of it.
My mom taught me organics.
The first thing I did, of course, was I flopped into hydroponics and, you know, started building
systems and designing them.
And that worked out really good.
And I look back now at that and I think, man, we really sure thought we had some great buds
back then, but I won't even touch a synthetic grown bud these days.
I mean, do you remember those old catalogs from Scentsy Seeds?
Like the pictures of the buds back then just all chewed up and rotten?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, dude, it was a different time, man.
Well, I hope you know, because of my organic, my hydroponic knowledge, right?
I had met these guys in Northern California and they were super interested in hydroponics.
They didn't know anything about hydroponics and they wanted to know big time.
Oh, I bet.
So it was kind of a marriage made in heaven right there.
I got together with them.
They agreed to teach me their ways and they were breeders and growers.
I mean, if I would teach them hydroponics, so I mean, that couldn't have worked out better.
Yeah, no kidding.
Apprenticeship made in heaven.
Yeah.
So what kind of stuff were you seeing around then?
Was it mostly Mexican stuff that was coming in, import?
No, no.
These guys had connection with the surfers, right?
Around the world, like several pro surfers.
So they were hooked up with some really prime genetics.
That's why when people nowadays tell me, you know, oh, the weed now is so much more strong.
Well, as a whole, yeah, but not if you're a selector and you find a clone of something
like Blue Mountain Jamaican or something, you know, something from Hawaii, something
picked and selected.
It was just, it was incredible weed.
Thai, oh my God.
Yeah.
See, I always hear these stories about the old Thais and that's why I've always kind
of chased them.
I looked up to you when I was, you know, getting into breeding and growing up and I was like,
wow, this dude's super into Thai.
I want to see what this is about.
I love Thai.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's a special, it's a special region that produce just, I don't know if it was the region
that produced the incredibly special plants or the farmers were just better at it or how
it worked.
Plants from different regions are kind of similar sometimes.
It's like Central Americans are kind of close to Southeast Asians.
You know, they have a lot in common.
Where like Colombians and South Americans are, have some similarities with South Africans
and Africans like the Rui Bart, right?
From South Africa and like a Colombian red, a good, a good, strong, real Colombian red.
They're very similar.
It would be tough to tell them apart by high tide.
And I've always tripped out about that.
You know, I thought, well, there must've been some boats going around exchanging genetics
way back then.
Yeah.
You wonder about like, maybe they were just, you know, similar equator, similar elevation,
shit like that.
Yeah.
And I think the genes are similar too, because I mean, you can grow, you can have something
like a Durban poison from South Africa that is miles different than a Rui Bart or a Colombian.
Oh sure.
You know, but, but there are, there are strange similarities across the table that always
make me wonder what happened in the past, how they got there.
Yeah.
No kidding, man.
I've seen some pretty weird ones.
Like there's a lot of that terpenelein in a lot of Colombians, but in a lot of Mexicans,
there's skunkiness and you think there would have been a lot of trade going up and down
through there, but they did keep their own little separate divisions too.
It's wild.
And they're, you know, they're, they're those like the Mexicans, especially they're, they're
like the South Africans too, in a way is that at first, you know, when people are looking
for all the terpene, looking for the smells and the flavors, they're always like, oh,
this smells like lemon.
Oh, well that's super common at the early stages of flowering, right?
A lot of sativas to smell that way.
They don't really start to put their real smelly legs on until at least halfway through.
So what was some of the first lines that you were making crosses of?
What were some of the first crosses even before breeding, just your first like?
Oh my God.
Let's see.
God, you know what?
I can, the first ones I find it hard to remember.
I remember I had a, I remember I had a tackle box.
Oh yeah.
The cops got that.
I had a tackle box just full of a big one label, just full of all kinds of, I wish I
could remember some of them now, but damn, I just, I just can't.
I don't know.
Was it mostly regional varieties?
Yeah.
Some of them are reasonable.
Some of them I got from France.
Some of them I got, you know, online having to read the catalog and mail and go through
them.
Yeah.
And then let's see, when was it that when Seabay came online around that time?
Okay.
So early 2000s, late 90s.
Yeah.
Yeah.
When they came online, I started really digging on the availability of online stuff.
And of course, you know, you run the risk of crap, but I found some real gems back then
just popping around, talking to people.
There was crap too, but still.
I mean, is that, is that the era that you got the metal haze?
Yeah, that was from Dutch flowers.
Yeah, it was.
And in fact, you know, you and I were talking about the, having to select things, Southeast
Asians like hazes, right?
And that, that metal haze, it was funny because if I recall, I got, I think I got six or eight
females out of a 10 pack and pretty much most of them were average and okay.
A couple of them were better than okay.
And then that one, they're like, oh my God, you know, it just, it stood out like a beacon.
So that was lucky really.
That was lucky.
Cause really you usually have to go through a lot more than that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Especially in haze varieties because it's just so much.
Any, any, any sativa that has like mostly a land race history is going to be a real
good selection because wild plants keep their options open, you know what I mean?
They keep a big genotype on reserve to tap.
So they don't really, unless they're super, super old, like, like the deep chunk or Panama
red or tie, some things like that.
They're just, they're setting their ways just like old people.
They aren't changing.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Deep chunks.
Perfect for that.
Yeah.
They're just, they're real, they're real acclimated to whatever environment they were inbred 500
times into or whatever.
Exactly.
Deep chunk just loves the Mendo and that's it.
You know, like the Mendo outdoor is perfect for it.
People have big problems with it when their pH usually runs low.
Oh, really?
You know?
Yeah.
Because you know, it won't tolerate a normal pH.
If your pH runs six to eight, six, seven, you're going to have small issues with it.
Your pH has to be up around seven for it to really kick ass.
That's awesome.
I didn't even know that part.
I've had trouble with it on and off in the past.
Yeah.
I guess it's because it's from the desert.
Basically.
Yeah.
It makes sense.
So it's used to a lot of minerals, probably a super high soil pH with pretty low organic
content.
So yeah, a little bit of sense.
Yeah, it sure does.
So what was, let's talk about the first strain that you actually started breeding, breeding
or line you started working.
Damn, I think I used, I think I had a, damn, I really just can't remember.
How old are you, son?
I'm 62.
I've been doing this for half a century.
I know.
I guess it gets harder over time.
You know, over the years, it's gotten a lot harder for me to remember some of the earlier
years.
It used to be just like, damn, just wait till you pass 55, brother.
I know I can't.
I'm already mad.
I'm all about walking in the kitchen and going, what am I doing?
No, I swear, it's like a mad scientist thing around here.
I got sticky notes and my Google calendar's busy all day long.
You know, I need all that shit to remind me of what the fuck I'm doing all the time.
See, I haven't even gotten to the point of utilizing that.
So I just forget and say, fucking smoke again.
I just, I give up.
I give up on myself.
Oh man, I can't do that.
Because you know, when I'm, especially if I'm selecting like I am now, if I screw up
even once, man, now I have a whole new set of variables I have to take into account.
That's true.
You know, I mean, it's like, I can't tell you how many people I visit.
They're trying to select a clone that'll have like a closet or a small area of plants, right?
And they'll be like, yeah, well, I'm going to kill these three because they're not doing
well.
And I'll be like, wait a minute.
You know, your fan is blowing extra strong on those three back plants.
So what's really happening is they're dehydrating faster.
They're needing water sooner.
So the reason they look shitty isn't genetics.
It's because you got to understand the environment around them, right?
Yeah.
That's like selecting in veg, like culling in veg, like, oh, it doesn't grow well.
Well, it could be the one that's the most potent.
We're going for effect, not for structure.
In veg, you know, if you're super familiar with the line, like I am with most of the
line, because I'm like the embodiment of Tasmania or the Galapagos Islands, right?
I have a pretty sealed gene pool.
Yeah, you do.
I don't walk outside of my gene pool very often.
So it works out really good for me.
Yeah.
I mean, that's one of the best ways to truly learn your lines and to master a line, to
really, really get it into, I mean, for lack of a better word, to master it, to get that
bud grown to its best expressions.
To where you're familiar, and you know, I use marker expressions on lines I'm real familiar
with, like my own lines I've worked with a lot.
I know if I have a square petiole, right, on this one, I know that that is a link gene
to something I either want or don't want, as an example, right?
Okay, I get what you're saying.
So I can select early.
I can wipe out a lot of plants I know I don't want early, right in veg with things I'm familiar
with.
So for people listening, like a linked trait could be like you see a certain leaf mutation,
so you know that in that line, it happens to also denote another trait.
Right.
And a lot of times, it gets a lot deeper than that, like patterns of leaf hairs, the patterns
that they form in certain places on the plants.
One of my favorite things to do to be able to check plants early is I look at those,
you know, the little round, I forget what they're called, coital bones or whatever,
the little leaves on the sprouts, right?
Those are some of my favorites.
When I catch the plants about a week up above ground, I always take a 30 times scope and
look really close at those leaves and look at the density of the leaf hairs.
Now what that does is since leaf hairs and trichomes are pretty much exactly the same,
a little tiny move on the plant, different.
I then know which is most dense, which can have the most dense trichomes right from go.
This helps me a ton for males.
So if I'm selecting a male from something I'm a little familiar with or not that familiar
with, I can get a good grip on how, what my potential is in my males to pass off heavy
resin production with the female for the offspring, right?
That gives me my first little marker so I can, you know, do the hangups.
I'm going to grab.
Okay.
All right.
That reminds me.
I got one too.
There we go.
Yeah.
No, but that's something I never even considered.
That's amazing.
I'm glad you like it.
Yeah.
The leaf hair things are big.
I use them to judge a lot of things and it's like most people go right to the leaves.
They look at like leaf formations, leaf, whatever, some, some aspect expression of
the leaf.
And those were good.
Those were good for a lot of things.
But the problem is with different environments and with any strain, especially a hybrid,
if it's not an IBL, it'll throw out just on the notch.
It'll throw out different morphologies, different resin values, you know, because it's still
testing the water.
It's a hybrid.
Yeah.
Right.
That's what it's doing.
It's the worst thing in the world.
Yeah.
And in today's society, we know like almost everything's a poly, poly, poly, poly hybrid
in the cookie world.
Unless you're, unless you have a, a nice sealed environment away from that kind of BS like
yours.
Well, you know, my worry is, it's not that I think anything is particularly bad or particularly
good in the recent 20 years or so, but the problem I have is, is it's, is it's useless
for me to try to run down the origin of some type of genetics that I get because I'm involved
with two or three people at least with one or two of them at least have just gotten it
and decided to rename it something else and maybe embellish on the history.
So I just, I just don't trust anything I hear now.
So I have my, my Galapagos Islands gene pool that I went, man, I got a lot of seeds from
a long time ago.
I'm just working through them now.
Like I told you recently, I just got a G, I just got some G13 haze from Soma to pop.
Yeah, that's freaking awesome.
Those things have got to be 30 years old.
Oh yeah, I bet.
Those are, that's a really good line too.
I think that's where they found the CBD stuff.
A lot of the CBD basis for canna tonic and stuff like that was in Soma's G13 haze.
Well the haze would definitely have some CBD.
Yeah, yeah.
Right.
But yeah, because it's not just the resin production, you know, I mean a lot like with
let me think of it.
Oh, like let's take a Congo for example.
Okay.
Several times I've seen Congos that suck, right?
Yeah.
Several times I've seen Congos that look like they'd be okay.
You know, it's like a real dark, spooky looking bud, but you don't see much resin, you know,
it just doesn't, and it will kick your, I mean bad, right?
And if you were to chop that bud in half and look at it, you would see that it forms it's
resin different than an indica would.
You know, a lot of the indicas were bred to make hash, right?
So they always wanted the resin spread out all over the whole plant so they could all
extract it with hash.
Sativas are a lot different, especially some of the really wild ones.
They'll condense their resin production as you get closer to the core of the flower to
protect it from the weather basically is what they do.
But that's why you can have a sativa that to your naked eye, you can go, oh yeah, that
looks all right, and it will lay you out.
Yeah.
I mean, you look at a lot of these old sativas, I was looking at some Highland Thai bud I
had from Bodhi Save.
And if you look at it, like, I guess if a modern person that like in the, that started
growing in the 2020s looked at it, they wouldn't even understand what to smoke on it.
Cause it's almost all leaf, you know, there's no floral density to it whatsoever.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No, we had those.
I remember when I went to Northern California, they had just gotten pretty flush with those.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Right.
Those, the ones from Afghanistan and the mid East that were not really buds, right.
They were just like leaf bud florets or something.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And, and they were just covered in resin, you know, just these big non dense flowers
just soaked with resin.
Jesus.
So let's talk about some of your lines.
I mean, you've made a lot of, I mean, so many lines over the years.
One of your flagships is the, what is it?
The blue Rhino 1947.
Love it.
Let's talk about that one.
It's one of your staples.
When I, when we first started talking, I think that was one of the big ones you were working
with.
Man, I still love it.
It's one of my favorite go-to smokes of all time.
It's, it's kind of heavy on the Indica side, but you wouldn't know it by smoking it because
it doesn't really relate that kind of sleepy side too much.
It doesn't give you munchies too much, but what it does do is it reminds me a lot.
I mentioned Bhutan earlier as it reminds me of some Bhutanese, right.
That have this, this resin profile where the high type is like, I don't know how to describe
it other than it's golden and happy.
Right.
Everything is like golden and you're happy.
And that's what the blue Rhino does.
That's what the blue Rhino 947 does for me, but it's most unique property that I have
found in nothing else is that I have some, I have a lot of damage actually, but one of
my major damage zones is in my leg.
Right.
And I took some really bad nerve damage.
Now the problem is, is when I'm up and walking around because of all that damage along with
bone damage and other stuff.
But when I'm up and walking around, I have to hold my muscles in that leg tight.
Right.
Because any loose, if I step down a step that's not there or something, man, I'm done.
I'm on a cane for a week.
I know what you mean.
Yeah.
It's bad.
Right.
Yeah.
So the blue Rhino 1947, after a day, when I lay down to go to sleep, if I'm up and around,
right, my leg will get spasms when it relaxes.
Right.
And that hurts the hell out of me.
Oh, I'm sure.
Yeah.
So the blue Rhino 1947, I can just pass some of that.
And those spasms are just reduced to a tiny, tiny little rumble that doesn't hurt at all.
So while I don't use it for pain relief directly, it absolutely cures me from the pain I would
be suffering.
So I always have blue Rhino 1947.
Always.
Also, do you think that's from the blueberry side or what's in the blue Rhino?
It's a blueberry white Rhino and peak 19 and AK 47.
19 and AK 47.
That's right.
Right.
So I got the peak 19 AK 47 from Seabay many, many, many, many moons ago.
Do you remember who made that one?
Pardon me?
Do you remember who made that one?
I know it's a hybrid of Sager Matha and something else.
I do not know who made that one.
But I used the Irish Rose version of blue Rhino.
Very cool.
And I just crossed them up.
And it's an impactive line anyway.
I mean, the high is impressive.
Beyond that, I started noticing that stuff with the tremors in my leg.
Oh, there really is medical marijuana.
Yeah.
I know the first time I realized that was when I had for myself.
Anyways, I had an abscess tooth and abscess molar.
And it was just it was one of those ones where it was like tears running down your face.
It's the only thing you can feel in your body is that pain just throbbing and nothing was
working.
Dabs, nothing.
And then I noticed that I smoked some very weak blueberry just because I happen to have
it and it completely took away the nerve pain.
And I realized, oh, this for me helps with nerve pain insanely, like a whole bunch.
So I was wondering if that maybe helped you.
At first I really thought it was the blueberry.
I did for several years.
I thought was the blueberry.
But then as I started to inbreed them and mess with them and look at different ones
that were better at exactly that nerve damage stuff.
I noticed that the ones I would select that would be the best would morphologically, they
would look the most like the peak 19.
Oh, interesting.
Not the blueberry.
So I just kind of naturally made the leap and thought it must be the peak 19 that's
doing it.
But I could I could be wrong.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I don't know.
I mean, the blueberries that I've had usually smell like blueberry, the ones that helps
my nerve pain.
I have neuropathy bad and that tends to help me a lot.
But I also like when you mentioned white rhino, like one of my white whales.
Is white rhino like a very good white rhino?
Because I had one.
It's just the one time ever that we just made me see tracers and hallucinate like LSD and
it was white rhino.
So, man, that's a special line.
Yeah.
Yeah.
We used to smoke a ton of white rhino when we were out taking care of stuff outdoors
and white rhino works really good outdoors because it's also hardly smelly at all when
you grow it.
Yeah.
Let's see.
We have your riffraff tie, which I know is a popular one.
That's a real grape grape fruity baby right there, man.
Some people are hunting grapefruit right now.
People keep talking about it, too.
Oh, shit.
The riffraff tie is like you could call it grapefruit.
I mean, you know, I just want people to know that there was tie in it.
Yeah.
But and then it's, you know, kind of muggled up, not pure tie.
But I mean, damn, you talk about grapefruit, that that baby is full on.
With a cure, it just gets 10 times stronger.
It's radical.
What's in the what's in it?
Riffraff tie is a deep chunk.
And let's see, which tie did I use?
I can't remember if it was the I had gotten sent from my cousin in Vietnam.
And when he sent it to me, the paper or whatever it was wrapped in said, bat damn bang on it.
So I just called that bat damn bang time.
That's a good name, too.
And then the other tie I had that I worked with was from a breeder that I hooked up with
that was in Denmark or Amsterdam.
And he wanted to trade me some juicy for a tie.
Oh, yeah.
For something I had.
I forget what it was, but I was like, oh, hell yeah.
And that was legit.
Juicy for a tie.
I mean, it was long, flowering, smelled just like juicy fruit gum.
It was kick ass.
So in the riffraff tie, I forget which one it was, but it was one of those.
One of those two.
It'll say so in the description.
Yeah.
So check the description.
If only I had a photographic memory.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I see.
I need one of those two.
Mine's just damaged, damaged, damaged, like memento.
Me too.
So if anybody's interested in the website, it's kingdomorganicseeds.com.
Definitely go out.
Go check those out there.
We want to talk about some more of your stuff.
Let's see.
I know my friend Smellboat would kill me if I didn't ask about the cherry tie.
The chunky cherry tie.
Yeah.
Now, you know something?
I love that for so many reasons.
But the first thing I really liked about it was when I saw the Offspring.
I knew because sometimes when you're working with like, it usually happens with a Landrace
or an Heirloom Long IBL when you pop it into a hybrid.
Usually what will happen is they will just merge, right?
The resulting will be uniform and it will blend.
Yeah.
It's pretty uniform in the F1.
Sometimes that doesn't happen.
Sometimes it's like they resist each other a little and you definitely get lots of different
recombinations.
That's what happened with the chunky cherry tie.
So as soon as I saw some starting to finish at about 10 or 11 weeks and I saw others that
had two more weeks to go, I was like, oh yeah, I knew.
And then, oh my God, when I smoked them, there was one I had that was a 14 week finisher
and it was so close to just tie.
I mean, it was just like smoking tie.
It was slightly different, but not very.
So I treasure that one.
I still have deep stash buds of that.
That's awesome.
Do you keep them in the freezer?
It's incredibly like tie.
I mean, it's almost spot on.
That's really cool.
I know my friend Smellboat used just the cherry tie part in his rainbow and it's one
of his favorite lines.
Yeah, the cherry tie.
That's one that you need a little selection there, but there are one out of four of those
females are just stellar.
They're all good.
You don't have any bad ones, but there's like, you know, out of like four females, you would
probably get two average ones, one really good one and one epic one if it spread the
bandwidth.
You know what I mean?
The in distribution of the expressions.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Let's see what else we got.
We have let's talk about.
Do you remember a string called Uncle Lucius Lemonade?
I still have Uncle Lucius Lemonade.
I remember that was a big hit on Skunk Magazine's forums back in the day.
The Uncle Lucius Lemonade.
All my friends were grabbing them, popping them, loving it.
What was that one about?
I've almost popped it here in the last six months.
I've almost popped it twice.
I mean, I've had it out and ready to roll.
Yeah.
And then something else came up and I went, oh, and I had to go a different direction.
Yeah.
But I'm definitely going to rework that again.
The only problem is it takes a lot of work.
Like I was talking to you earlier about if I'm working with things I'm really familiar
with, right?
Like, you know, Blue Rider 1947, let's say I can pop eight.
If I want to continue the line, I can usually get away with one wave of eight sprouts.
I can select from there and be good, find everybody I'm looking for.
Maybe I might have to do that twice, but usually not because I'm familiar with it.
I know what I'm looking for.
So that works out really good.
But the Uncle Lucius Lemonade, now that's made from a Lemon Wreck that a friend of mine
brought me in about 2004, I think.
A Lemon Wreck clone up from Northern California, up from Willits.
It was an intense train wreck.
Super lemony.
It must have developed a sport mutation or something.
And it had become super lemony.
What?
Is that?
Okay.
There we go.
But it also had another couple other weaknesses that may have come along with the lemony flavor
was, it was real weak.
It had no structural integrity and stuff.
So I crossed it with another heavy, hard hitter, the Iron Cindy, which is a lot like
a train wreck.
So I crossed it with that to make Uncle Lucius Lemonade.
Now the problem with the original Uncle Lucius was, or with the original Lemon Wreck was
that it had some Hermes in it, right?
You had to weed those out and they weren't the easy kind to weed out.
They weren't true Hermes.
They were the kind you don't find out until two weeks before.
Yeah, those are brutal.
Just weak breeding, right?
So I have to fish through them.
So now in order to run those and inbreed them, I'm going to need to run 16 sprouts to start
with and cross my fingers that I can find what I need in that run because those are
particularly dangerous.
First I have to find true males for sure.
Then I have to find a female that can take some stress.
I have to beat the shit out of them to find out who has the least tolerance for stress.
So once I find that, I will do it because that is some of the most lemony stuff, man,
ever.
I think people run into that a lot with the train wreck stuff, a lot of intersex traits
and a lot of like there's even auto flowering traits in the line somewhere.
But man, for me, there's not a much better hide than train wreck stuff.
It's one of those ones just that I associate with Thai Thai pies kind of in there that
make me happy, energetic.
Just Thai makes me happy and energetic for sure.
Sometimes totally spaced out, depends on how much I smoke.
But but the train wrecks, any train wreck I've ever smoked, I'm not a big fan.
Oh, they're potent.
That's right.
Yeah.
They have a they have a quality to me that is not dissimilar than when you take something
two weeks late, how the resin changes.
Yeah, yeah.
That's that's how they always remind me of.
I've even tried taking them a little early and that doesn't change.
Yeah.
But you know, it's just that's a personal thing.
Like you and millions of people love train wreck.
Yeah.
I have nothing against the fact that it just kind of makes me feel like it's like it's
weed that was taken too late.
I always get that vibe from it.
You know, a train wreck people either.
And it's kind of like that with Jack Harrow, too, a little bit.
Maybe it's because of the turps.
Maybe it's because of the high, too.
But it's either people love it or they're just like that.
And some people it makes speedy and paranoid, like crazy paranoid.
It just never does it to me.
But a lot of Afghanis do it to me.
And Skunk One does it to me.
That's weird.
Oh, man, you want to see the queen of paranoid that Black Forest I have.
Yeah.
Let's talk about some of the Black Forest.
Let's talk about that one.
Oh, man, I can't tell you how many people I've sent running for the hills with that
where they go.
Yeah, well, if you get a little paranoid, I go, well, I would smoke it if I was you,
if that's the case.
Right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And, you know, I don't listen.
And, you know, they run for the hills because that thing's just pure jungle black Vietnamese.
Who knows how many bazillion years old it is.
I had a cross with my old cherry bomb mayo, which, God, I love that cross.
What was the cherry bomb?
That was an F3 out of Hawaii.
That was it was a combination of about three or four Hawaiian sativas, elephant ear, Puna
butter, a couple others.
And it was crossed with a cherry AK-47.
Oh, wow.
Then it was inbred a few times to F3.
And it was shared with me under some kind of top secret.
You know how the Hawaiians do.
They they they do.
They're they're they're they're tight with their stuff.
Top secret.
So anyway, when I got it, the first thing I noticed, the first couple of things I crossed
it with is it was sort of it was sort of submissive.
You know, it would impart larger yields and it would impart added resin.
But it wouldn't really contribute too much to turps or or high type or morphology to
any big degree.
So I really liked it because I could blend it with almost anything and it would come
out mostly whatever else was in the hybrid.
Yeah.
You know, it would always be like 80 20 instead of a 50 50.
Yeah.
So, yeah, I love that.
So anyway, I but I bred that with the with the Vietnamese black, which I got from my
cousin back in.
I don't know.
I think it was like maybe the late 80s or something.
So you kept the Vietnamese black line around that long?
Yeah, I still have it.
I just popped three a few months ago because I just inbred the I just inbred the black
forest by getting a male from the original V black line.
Oh, no.
I'm using him to do a soft back cross.
Yeah.
To to the black forest.
So now it's like the black forest runs over anything it crosses anyway.
Oh, wow.
How long does that flower?
16 weeks.
Oh, I bet.
That's got to be so killer, though.
Oh, my God.
But, you know, peeps have problems with it because if you never have flowered a 16 week
plant in a container, you may have some issues.
Yeah.
Yeah.
People that are used to land races and heirloom lines and long flowering lines indoors, you
really got to do your homework before you start flattering them puppies.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Because, you know, shit, not only do you have to select the shit out of them and keep them
overloving them is the death sentence to them, you know, start trying to pour food on them
or switch their pH faster.
Your bone over watering all kinds of shit.
It goes.
Plus, people will take them as the common mistake with the black forest or anything
that's like up 14 weeks or something is they'll get to about the 10, 11 week mark and they'll
be, oh, shit, my plant's dying.
Yeah, I need to transplant it.
Well, that's like the worst possible thing you could do in flowering because suddenly
the plant gets this dose of all kinds of available nitrogen and shit.
So it's yay time to veg.
And what that means is time to reduce resin production.
Yes.
Yes.
So if you're in flowering and you're reducing resin production.
Well, that's not right.
Yeah.
Counterintuitive as fuck.
That's why I tell people you're feeding cannabis, not tomatoes, because tomatoes like some nitrogen
and calcium and veg and stuff.
But cannabis, nitrogen kills resin production and flower.
Yeah.
I mean, sure, your plant will get really happy and start to grow.
Maybe even mutate growth a little bit.
But it's like with tomatoes.
Like if you were overdosing your tomatoes with nitrogen at the end, if you were sort
of fading your tomatoes, you'll get really big, gnarly tomatoes, but they'll have thick
skin.
Yes.
Right.
Yeah.
Super thick, robust, thick skin.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So one of the lines that I probably associate with you the most and that I get asked about
the most when people ask about your lines is Iron Cindy.
People love the Iron Cindy.
It's basically a haze for my money.
It's just like a faster flowering haze.
It's a slightly longer flowering Cindy because Cindy and haze have a lot in common.
Cindy and Southeast Asian have a lot in common.
So the metal haze was kind of a no brainer that I wanted to cross with it.
It kind of makes a really nice outdoor plant too for the metal haze, a better frame for
it and everything else.
So what kind of terps are you seeing in the Iron Cindy?
Did you use a pineapple C99, a grapefruit?
What kind of you're using?
No.
No.
I just used, I just selected some, I think I used a couple of females for that, maybe
more than a couple, but I just took some good Cindy's and crossed it.
It's hard to get a bad Cindy.
The only bad Cindy are every once in a while, I would say one in eight are super small yielding.
That's the only really bad Cindy I've ever seen.
And that's not bad.
It just yields really small.
Yeah.
But it probably has heavy resin production and all.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's funny.
That's funny too, because you know something in any line I've ever seen.
Yeah.
If you have, you know, usually they're big fat plants.
Usually if you get one, a phenotype that has like, let's say 25% less yield.
Yeah.
It will also have about 25% more potency.
Yeah.
And resin production, it puts all that energy elsewhere for the plant.
I love, I love cannabis.
I love how, how just intuitive it is as a, as a plant and how, how quickly it adapts
everything, everything about the plant.
It evolves.
A lot of times we talk about on our show about like expressions and clonal expression, meaning,
you know, a lot of people used to call it genetic drift, but it's not necessarily a
thing, but taking a clone from one environment to another and watching how quickly it adapts,
how quickly it will change its form even.
You my man know the important stuff if you ask me, because that is it.
Now I call it adaptability as a general.
But yeah, one of the first things I do to my plants to check them out is back in the
day we used to call it the breeders in Northern California used to call it growth hormone.
Okay.
And what it is is basically when you take a plant and you top it, right?
Yeah.
See how fast it comes back with the axial branches and then you top it again.
See how fast it comes back with the actual branches, top all those.
And you see how many times before you actually slow the process.
Yeah.
You got to keep the resources all in line here during this.
Sure.
You know, you got to have container size and food and water because, you know, it's now
putting up 20 leads or whatever.
But that's how you can tell a plant has like the superior vigor from L. If it can come
back four times and still be just...
The Hemingway, one of the ones I worked with a long time ago.
The Cherry Hemingway?
Is that what it is?
Well, before it was the Cherry Hemingway, it was the Hemingway.
Oh, okay.
It's a Bhutanese mad plant.
That thing, man, my friends would tell me it's broken out of the grow room window and
ate the neighbor's dog.
I mean, you talk about vigor, you could just, you prune the shit out of that plant.
You just make it mad.
I mean, it comes back.
That's adaptability right there.
Is it the pure Bhutanese?
That's one of the things I always look for with all my breeders is I test them that way.
You know, I always top the crap out of them and see how fast they come back.
Also, I take advantage of any incidents I might have where if my tent went away, all
of a sudden it's 110 in there.
I'm like, oh shit.
Then I watch those plants very closely for the next two weeks.
I see who handled that best or if something happens where I drought them all out and they
all hurt from drought stress.
That's a really good opportunity to see what's up.
Yeah. Yeah.
It's a great way to see what's up with your plants and their ability to test for stress.
Yeah, because I mean, they got to be strong first and foremost, you know.
Yeah.
When I'm selecting them, I don't want any weaknesses in there at all.
Once I've got it down to all the strongest plants, then I go to work on resin production,
turps. I see what's up with all that.
So aside from your breeding work, which is completely prolific, it's really well known.
And like you said, it's its own kind of ecosystem where you've kept it very pure in its
own form and rarely do you bring anything in.
You're also very well known for your true living organics.
You have a book out from Green Candy Press called True Living Organics.
Let's talk about it.
Let's talk about let's do a step by step, quick, basic, organic introduction like you
would teach a beginner.
Your best advice that you would give a beginner starting into organics.
OK. TLO is simply an all natural style.
OK, when I say all natural style.
I do mean organic.
Yeah, but all organic styles aren't all natural.
That's right.
I could be growing organic with my earth juice bottles and it would not be all natural.
Exactly. It would be organic.
Yes. So that's the first difference there.
TLO is an all natural style.
There's no liquid, anything, no synthetics.
We don't cram organic acids in there to force feed them.
Yada, yada. No synthetic processes in any of it.
Or even any organic acids in any prolific amount.
And then the next thing you need to know about TLO is we leverage Mother Nature, right?
We take some advantage of the plants being in containers like higher root temperatures.
Yeah. That means there's more.
You know, you've seen an anthill on a sunny day compared to an anthill on a cloudy day.
Yeah. You know, they're moving like lightning on the sunny day and they're all just.
All right. Same with your plants.
When the roots are the temperature around the roots in a container are warm like that.
That's pretty alien to the plant.
But Mother Nature comes to the rescue, takes advantage of that.
We can leverage all those things. Right.
Yeah. Those warmer temperatures and the right balance, the right pH, the right food,
the right aeration, the right container dynamics.
You put the right water.
Yeah. Put all those together.
And not only is it all natural growing, it's freaking supernatural.
Yeah. Right.
And I mean, literally not just a tagline.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Supernatural.
Yeah.
So we were getting into the second part,
the second question of best advice you would give a T.L.L. grower.
Right, right. The second part is
from the movie Ghostbusters, do not cross the streams.
OK, gotcha.
This is one of the most important things
and what fucks up the most people most often, right, is
they have their growth going really good.
Everything's cranking along and they decide to add some sweet or some,
you know, super thrive or some kind of elixir or.
Yes. You know, because that just once you get
how the all natural process works, it's all about consistency.
Right. Yes.
It's all about the plant and the soil all getting used to their environment.
The changes don't come rapidly.
They come slowly.
The plant loves it like that because it grows super slowly.
Right. Exactly.
You can't just blast in a bunch of phosphorus or or some kind of radical
fulvic acid solution in there and think everything's going to be OK because the
first thing it's going to do is change the pH and soil radically.
Yeah. Now, if you're a human, you might go,
cool, more food, but if you're a micro life in the soil, you die.
Yeah. And it takes a whole two weeks for that
to come back to where it should be after a mistake like that.
And if that two weeks is during flowering, well, as we discussed before,
you're taking the way from resin production.
Yeah. Yeah.
Instantly, instantly you're you're boofing your bud.
Yeah. I mean, I don't get why anybody would go
through all that process of having this beautiful organic living
soil and add in just a little thing.
But I guess that temptation is always there, though.
Right.
Like for for people that are used to bottles,
grabbing that bottle real quick to make a quick adjustment.
For sure. I understand it.
My God, when I was making the transformation
myself, I boned that one many times myself.
I bet I bet it's got to be a common habit.
So well, right out of the gate, the problem, the problem is it's right out
of the gate when you pour some of that on your plant.
Oh, your plant looks wicked happy for a week, maybe 10 days.
Oh, yeah. I love that.
You go, man, I made a great move.
Then all of a sudden starts going to hell and you're like, what's wrong?
Well, it's because it catches up in time.
Yeah. So if you're going to go to stay, do not mix.
Yeah. Give it a fair give it a fair shot.
You know, don't don't decide when you've got a couple or a few weeks left to go
before harvest that you need a phosphorus boost.
Yeah.
No kidding.
Yeah. So when when did you start your writing career?
I mean, this is a big part of your career
is writing, not just growing and writing about growing, but actually being an
author, when did that kind of come about?
Um, I met up with a guy who was a writer, his name was Gooey,
just met with him online, right?
I didn't know shit about writing.
Yeah, I could I couldn't even spell the word the word article consistently.
Yeah, I would spell it wrong.
I spelled all kinds of things wrong.
My sentence structure suck anyway.
So he proposed an idea where he wrote for Skunk Magazine at that time.
So he proposed an idea where we would
collaborate, right, and we would just do some stuff together.
Yeah. So I stuck with him for probably I don't know.
It was like a year.
But what we would do is I would write, then I would send it to him.
Then he would he would fix it and then he would send it back to me.
And then I would say, yeah, yeah, because sometimes if you don't know how to grow
when you're editing somebody's writing, you screw it all up because you don't know
what you're saying. Absolutely.
So along with correcting those kind of things, I also took really careful note
on the writing corrections he made. Yeah.
I started to get a grip on how he wrote, how he structured his sentences, blah, blah,
blah. So after about two years, I guess a year and a half of that,
I broke out on my own and just started writing and I did OK for a while and
slowly came up more and more and more, you know, in my skills of writing.
Sure. And at at one point when Skunk went digital,
they got the new I forget what it's called, but the program that you submit articles
in, right, it's OK, it's got all its own little rules, right?
Excuse me. Like how many words can be in a paragraph?
How many paragraphs can be how many words and paragraphs can be under a heading?
Oh, wow. All this stuff that I wasn't really that
familiar with, so that trained me a little further.
So so now I can write pretty good, you know, standard issue, pretty good.
I still have my own signature moves that I pull off that aren't, you know,
classic writing skills. Yeah, for sure.
You know, it's like whenever I'm writing,
I'm always imagining that I'm just sitting there talking to somebody at a pub or
something and I'm explaining whatever I'm writing to them.
And it's funny because a lot of the people
who email me, they say exactly that they go, where, man, I feel like I'm just
sitting next to you in a pub and you're just telling me stuff.
Yeah, that's what I enjoy.
That's why that's why early your writing resonated with me because I was growing up
and reading Skunk and doing all that, like it always resonated with me because it's
how I speak when I'm talking to someone.
It's just familiar.
You don't feel like someone's above you talking down to you.
You just feel like it's a bro talking about growing.
You know, I mean, everybody has their own likes and dislikes.
I respect that totally.
You know, it's it's like music or anything else or your favorite food.
You know, you have your favorites right now.
Your favorites change sometimes.
That's just the way it is.
I go through I go through periods where I'm just like, oh, God.
Yeah, I made some hash from some Cinderella ninety nine recently.
Oh, that's a good move.
It's a really good move.
So anyway, I just got a blitter.
I don't really you know, for a for a writer of cannabis, an author and a grower
and a breeder, I don't really smoke as much weed as a lot of the people I know.
Yeah, probably because I'm older now because I sure used to.
Yeah.
But when I get something that's really fine in my hands like that Cindy Hash,
I tend to go for, you know, maybe a week just being the stoner from hell.
I'm a guy walking around, baked on hash all the time.
That's me when I start when I fire up the pub, go,
you know, there's a good week or two where I'm just stuck on stupid for a while.
And then I go back to flower and kind of get into it slowly.
But yeah, yeah, that always.
Yeah.
Hash also blows your whole
ability to smoke flowers, too, because it raises your tolerance to a really high
level, super fast, super fast.
Yeah. And that's no fun when you can't really
enjoy the fine complexities of a high in a flower.
Right. Because exactly, exactly.
Because I I test stuff out, you know, where sometimes the route I take for
breeding is I will use since I'm really good and fast at making hash, I'll take
four plants, four females that I've never seen all the way through flowering.
Right.
And I'll have my male or two or three or however many I'm using in there.
Then since I've seen this so many times,
especially if I'm using something I know, I can look at the plants as they seed up,
watch them very closely under magnification as they finish.
And I can tell who's got the most resin
production. And of course, the turpins become obvious to me.
Yeah. And so what I do is, is I make separate hash balls from each female
because beyond the resin count, the resin production, you have the resin coating.
Right. The profile itself.
Yeah. So and that's what I'm really all about.
I love that. So I just take days where for three days I smoke just hash from one,
in the morning, noon, night, then the next day or the next set of days I smoke.
And it takes me a week or two to go through four or five different females.
Sure. At the end of that, I damn sure know which ones I like best.
Yeah. You have a good idea how it gets you.
Because a lot of people like I mean, I'm sure people realize this,
but I don't know that they consciously realize it.
A strain doesn't always affect the same
person the same way at the same time of the day when you smoke in the morning.
Nor will it affect you the same way under two different situations.
Exactly.
It's it's it's so variant how a high will make you feel.
It could you could be smoking the exact
same turps, cannabinoid content, everything but time of day, mood.
Everything matters when it comes to cannabis.
Every last one. I agree 100 percent.
It's like one of my favorite things to do to test out,
especially Sativa's ones are Sativa dominant.
They're all just blaze a doobie or a couple of hits or whatever.
And I'll I'll blaze out on my bicycle and go riding around.
See, see what's up. Yeah.
And I'll see what kind of energy motivation we really is.
A lot of times I don't even get to really,
truly experience a high until I get up and move around and start, you know,
getting some getting some action going.
That's usually when I figure out how truly stoned I am.
Exactly.
And you can take note of things along the way, like something stay consistent,
like, oh, this is well, I ate that whole box of cookies.
So I guess it gives you the munchies pretty hardcore.
Exactly. Yeah, exactly.
Yeah. Yeah. So you could tell something stay the same.
But as far as your attitude, as far as how it hits you mentally when
you're on it, there's some that are just like I say, those Bhutanese,
the Blue Rhino 1947, there's a few others I have that just make me have that golden.
The life is beautiful thing.
Yeah. And then there's then there's those
strains where a stupid joke will make you laugh to where you almost choke to death.
Yeah. I mean, it's just there's so many
kinds out there.
You know, I ran across somebody a couple of years ago.
And man, I'll always remember this guy.
He comes up to me, wants to smoke a doobie
with me, and I'm like, dude, is it organic or whatever?
He goes, I don't know. It's pot.
He goes, he goes, but it's really, really powerful.
And I said, all right, well, let me have a hit of it.
I smelled it. It smelled good.
I was like, OK, my first hit I could see it was gnarly,
synthetic, grown like so bad it was like miracle grow.
Yeah, it was like, oh, shit, I'm sorry.
Don't want to piss you off, but that sucks.
Yeah. Yeah.
And he goes, dude, you won't believe how high it gets you.
And I go, let me let you in on a little secret here.
I could spray the bud with raid.
And if you smoked it, you would get so fucked up.
Yes. So it's not just about that.
Right. You know that they actually
I've talked about this before on the show.
Back when I was in my teens in Bakersfield,
most of the time we were getting in Mexican compressed during that.
During the 90s, we're getting Mexican compressed and we're young.
We didn't have access to dank up and humble.
We have cars to drive around.
We're young for kids.
But in a certain area of town,
you could go get Mexican and it always had this weird floral perfumey smell to it.
Later on, I found out they were spraying with raid because they would they would
sell it and they'd call it made.
So I thought that was the strain name.
But later on, I found out they're spraying literally with raid.
Well, it will get you really, really high.
It sure will.
Just take a shortcut and inhale some raid if that's right.
I'll find some raid.
Yeah. Don't have fun.
Right.
Don't know if I'm right, kids.
But yeah, no, I it's shocking what people will do to their weed just to to give an
effect, even if it has nothing to do with the natural processes of the plant or the
high of cannabis. Right, right.
I've converted many, many people just by giving them some weed.
Right. Because they'll hit me with a weed and
they'll go, oh, this is the best weed.
And I say, compared to what?
Yeah. Not compared to this.
Yeah. This little number.
And I'll give them like a quarter ounce of it or something.
Right. And within the time of no more than a few days, it never takes more than a few
days. Next thing they're doing, man, they're asking me how to do this.
They want details. They're selling all their other shit.
They think it's crap now because especially synthetics.
I mean, if you're someone who can't tell
the difference between synthetic grown weed and organic or all natural grown weed,
you need to solve that problem first, because there is a hell of difference.
It means you're not smoking enough different good growers.
If you don't know the difference.
Absolutely. Because that's synthetic weed.
I could take one hit of real shitty
synthetic weed. Oh, yeah. And my throat's through for the rest of the day.
Yeah. Yeah.
You're blowing out, blowing up coughs out your throat all day.
Yeah. So hot and shitty.
Yeah. Yeah.
It's pretty typical for it.
So I mean, you know, if that's your gig,
if that's what you like and that's fine, fine.
You know, but don't don't throw it on me and try to tell me it's organic.
Don't tell me it's the best.
You know, like if you haven't smoked a good sampling of all that's out there and a lot
of different types of growing stuff, you really don't really know until you have
that experience and it got the breadth so you can tell the difference between
organic, you know, shitty synthetic and the difference in between.
It's not just looking at the ash.
You know, it's just that.
Yeah. But and that's just the elegance of the smoke.
You know how elegant and smooth it is.
Yeah. When you're organic or all natural,
you're you're miles above anything synthetic all the way.
Yeah. But from, you know, I've never smoked
really organically grown bottle weed.
I call it soup style, organically grown weed with bottles.
That has been really offensive unless the person has decided to goose their plants
at the end with a bunch of potassium and phosphorus.
You know, yeah, if they don't fade an organic bottle grow well, it can be harsh.
Nothing like synthetics can be.
Yeah. But still, you can pick it up there.
You know, I'm sure you've smoked those
jimmies where the cherry will sizzle like a sparkler a little bit.
Yes. Yes.
That's mega potassium still in there.
Yeah.
It's a mega potassium.
Yeah. Yeah.
I mean, if you're going to pour like heavy
potassium or like phosphor load on your plants at the end of an organ or a TLO grow,
just just don't just don't you're not going to fool anyone.
Just you're not.
I mean, potassium and phosphorus are both
elements that you absolutely do not want to goose your plants with pretty much ever.
If you're in soil, no matter what you're doing.
Yeah, exactly.
In nature, potassium and phosphorus don't come in highly available forms.
They're taken in very slowly and stored.
And that's another thing with breeding
that I also notice is along with like what we were talking about before with how
vigorous and what I used to call the growth hormone.
Right. Yeah.
How how adaptable they are.
Another thing with it.
What was I just talking about? See how I am.
You know, I am.
This is the curse of the old person.
It's OK, Mr.
Magoo. What am I doing?
Where did I go?
Oh, OK. What was I talking about?
Oh, yeah. So, yeah.
So potassium and phosphorus are just meant to be taken up super slowly over time.
Right. Like I said, and stored in the plant
and along with certain abilities of certain plants over other plants.
One of those abilities is to be able to store and acquire nutrients like potassium,
calcium, phosphorus, some plants that are breeding trait.
You know, yeah, yeah, yeah.
When you're selecting some plants can store a lot of those nutrients.
So some plants have a hard time getting it.
Some plants don't.
You know, it's just how well they work in synchronicity with the soil life.
It's how how adaptable I guess it's kind of their more wilder side coming back to
them. Yeah. So one thing I noticed going to your stuff.
I don't think you have any O.G. Kush in your lines.
Do you? No, I do not.
I love that. I love that.
I mean, I like O.G. Kush, but at the same time, the past 20 years has been
bombarded. Everything has O.G. in it now.
So you always have that profile somewhere in it.
And I just realizing, wait a minute, this is this is an enigma.
This is a thing you don't find very often.
A breeder that's still going didn't work.
O.G. Kush in their lines and is still successful, making great lines.
I mean, that's special.
I like O.G. Kush, right?
Yeah, it kicks my ass.
I think it's the guys who first made that were guys from Northern California who went
down to L.A. right. Yeah, those guys, those guys who built that.
So that was a that was a devastating that's that's a that's a not a day wrecker
because the legs aren't super long.
But I mean, it would be a day wrecker if the legs were longer.
Yeah, it's just disabling.
It just if I'm in bed and I feel like shit, O.G.
Kush would be perfect.
Just hammer me, hammer me.
I'm not going to be doing much else besides maybe get a haircut,
watch a movie and not follow it.
Yeah, exactly. Exactly.
I mean, there's a time and place for that weed, but that's not usually my go to type.
So I didn't want to use it because I mostly breed with stuff I like.
And even though I'm not the usual, I'm not the regular, I'm not the majority.
Most people like strains and and varieties
that are different than the ones I like the most.
I tend to lean a little more sativa in my
likes or most people lean a little more indica in their likes.
And it's not that I don't like it because it's just if I'm going to have a go to
weed that I'm going to I'm a busy guy, I do a lot of shit all the time.
Yeah.
We don't need something to hammer me down
and make me eat some pancakes and go to sleep.
Yeah, no, that don't help nothing.
I want something where I could be high and happy, still functional.
And I'm stoned as hell, but I'm still good to operate.
It's not like, ah, yeah, I just I admire that.
I buy that because it's so easy to go with the crowd.
I push things are going a little bit slower.
Let's push emoji in there. That's what's hip now.
You know, you just never did it.
And I admire that.
That's that punk rock ethos that I love about the Rev.
Thank you. I sure got offered enough of it.
You know, I guarantee you did.
Yeah, for sure.
I mean, you were there for the beginning of it, you know, all of it.
And you just I love that you stuck to your guns.
That's what makes you special.
Oh,
what's the Reds white whale?
What's a strain that you that you either you had and lost or a strain
that you're hunting, a strain that you just always wanted
or a turf profile that you've always wanted?
Well, I'm pretty good with making turf profiles.
I mean, I'm usually pretty close.
I've seen enough of them blend.
So I know close to where they're going to go.
And then individuals in that batch, I can usually find it, you know.
Yeah. But as far as the strain, I would love to have back that the police got
from me after I first moved here was my Panama Red clone.
Oh, I bet.
One of the craziest fucking plants you've ever seen.
A jungle sativa, right?
This thing would grow roots that would shoot straight up out of the ground for a
couple of inches, then they would turn around and go straight back into the ground.
So you have all these root loops
and then new plants would start growing off of those.
All of them. What?
Yeah. Crazy.
All right. You think that's weird?
Let me tell you something else.
You know how the male plants and some strange, some rare varieties,
they're usually landrace heirloom type. Yeah.
They have those nubs at the base of the stem.
I don't mean it from a being too humid.
Yeah. I mean, they actually have little nubs
like they reinforce the bottom third of their stems.
He's like armor nubs, right?
Sure.
The Panama Red had spikes on those nubs
that still pointy little like thorns on those nubs.
I mean, you talk about a dinosaur freaking plant and DJ Short absolutely described it
to a tee. It is the tequila of weed.
What makes you say that?
It is psychoactive, man.
It is. It is.
It is off your rocker, down the rabbit hole, complete takeover of everything.
This is like it warms you so thoroughly.
You are like it's almost like mushrooms.
It really is. Yeah.
I mean, it just your auditory or your visual.
Everything is affected.
Hardcore. Your brain is just going 20 directions at once.
It's like it's like your head is zooming through space really fast.
You know, just like, whoa.
You know, like that ad for those speakers that time.
Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Just like that. You're like, whoa, it's kicking your ass.
And like a Durban poison, it has waves, right?
Creeper. So the first 10 minutes after you smoke, you go, damn, damn.
Five minutes after that, you go, oh, whoa, it's not done.
Ten minutes after that.
Holy shit.
It just keeps bumping you and you just go deeper and deeper.
It's a great, great I've never seen a true clone of it or what looks to me like
a true offspring of it anywhere.
Yeah. So I haven't dabbled, but I never gave
the clone to anybody, so I don't have any backup.
So the cops, the cops have gotten a lot of really good strength.
Where did you source that one?
From a friend of mine down in Nicaragua.
Oh, wow. Yeah.
Him and I did.
Well, a long time ago, I used to get this hash right from Jamaica.
This red hash.
And we used to take the boat and go down to the one of those islands just off.
Just off in Mexican, not Catalina.
You know, the islands just south of San Diego across the border.
The ones that are named after the squid.
Coronado Islands.
Coronado. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah. Not Coronado, San Diego, but Coronado Island.
Well, we used to rendezvous there and I'd always get the hash there.
Well, he was the one who was always talking about this.
Oh, yeah. Blah, blah. Panama Red.
And as soon as he said that, of course, I was like, oh, yeah, I bet.
You know, Panama Red.
And he goes, yeah, yeah, yeah.
He goes, yeah, I have a clone.
So I was like, well, can you bring that with you next time?
Yeah. And he was like, yeah, yeah, sure.
I'll do that. He was real nonchalant about it for such a whoa.
Yeah. What year was this?
Oh,
eighty two.
Oh, my gosh. That's awesome.
Yeah. Legit shit.
Legit time for Panama Red to be going around and everything.
Oh, well, you know, the closest thing to it now that if you could source as far as
I know would be what was that stuff, the big Sir Hollywood.
Remember? Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That has real Panama Red in it.
OK, nice fucking potent, potent old sativa type.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, Panama Red, the way you describe it
reminds me of how Tom Hill talks about his Hayes, a specific, you know, in his Hayes.
It is a lot like killer Hayes is right.
Yeah. That same psychoactive just look, I mean, blow your mind high.
Yeah, yeah. That's what he was talking.
He's like, I don't even know why anybody grows anything but that.
He's like, I don't care if it's if it takes ten and five hundred to find one of them.
It's better than any weed you'll ever smoke.
He's like, everybody's an idiot for not working with it.
And I was like, wow, really?
But I mean, it sounds like that this
high truly does exist in cannabis in some form.
It's incredibly impressive.
And I say that as an understatement.
I mean, if you ever smoke it, it will.
I hope it's still around.
I hope somebody has a hybrid of it somewhere or something, you know.
Yeah. Or somebody resources the real deal
because it legit comes from the edges of the Panamanian jungle.
Yeah. I mean, just right there.
They don't go in too deep to have to get it.
He told me a lot about it.
But again, I'm old and I forget a lot of the details.
But he had a lot of details about it.
But just looking at the plant, it was crazy.
First of all, it was red purple.
I mean, was it a purple flower plant?
Bottoms of the leaves were purple.
All the veins were purple.
The stems were purple.
The buds were purple.
And the buds are dark purple, you know,
but everything else was kind of a reddish purple.
And those roots that would go back in the ground and start new plants.
It was just crazy.
That sounds a lot like the Dolores strain, too, that was around a long time ago.
I think that who talks about Dolores?
Robert Clark, maybe one of those guys, they know about it.
And it's an old I don't know if it's South American or Mexican hybrid,
but similar, very similar in the looks, a lot of it.
And it's I think it's in Big Sur Holy Week, the Dolores like is a portion of it.
So that's interesting.
Would be interesting to see if we could find a way to find a strain similar to that.
Well, well, well, a haze, a really good haze is very similar.
Very similar.
So Tom was nailing it on the head with his haze.
Maybe I mean, if you find a good haze, some are easier than others.
It's like we went through some the first haze.
I remember it was like 18 weeks flowering indoors.
It's crazy.
But you never know where it was sourced from.
That one.
No, that came from the surfers in Northern California.
So those are the good source.
Those came from my buddy's surfer connection.
They had those. But that one was just even and just the seeds from like any hybrid
of that one, you know, they never inbred it, but they hybridized it a lot.
But like the Vietnam Black, the jungle sativa,
it walks all over anything you would cross it with like 90 percent.
Yeah. Something would have to be an IBL
10 or 15 or greater to even have a chance to play a little bit in the offspring
recombination. Yeah, yeah.
That makes sense.
So this is a personal question just for me.
Did you keep seeds pure of the Vietnam Black?
Yes, I did.
That's awesome.
That's what I just that's what I just did.
The soft back cross.
I just released the Black Forest F2, right?
Yeah. In brackets.
It says BX one small BX one.
Yeah. Because I didn't take it back to the
original individual.
Vietnam Black, and I took it back to a
super superior male that had all the good signs on him.
So I back crossed it to the line, not the individual.
So generation of Black Forest that I just released, right?
It's going to be whopping, whopping Vietnam Black sativa.
So it's going to require not much looking
through because, again, I've never seen a bad one of those.
They're all they're all decent.
But there are probably three out of ten, two out of ten are extreme.
I mean, extreme.
That is so cool, because I know most of the people have only
been sourcing Vietnam Black via the camera who brought to the scene.
But I know Jojo passed it.
The Vietnam Black that was in Willie Nelson and Billy Goat also used one.
But the fact that there's a whole nother
separate Vietnam Black line from back in the day like that, super interesting.
And I think a lot of people are going to be interested to know that.
Yeah, that came from my cousin in Vietnam.
He sent those to me. That's that is sick.
That is super sick.
I always assumed it was the same one as the Billy Goat one.
Knowing that just has me a thousand times
more interested to see more of what Vietnam has to hold.
Oh, God, Vietnamese.
Some of the Cambodians, there's just so many Southeast Asians I love.
Actually, Bhutanese is a Southeast Asian, but they're far from haze like, you know,
they're just that that is a unique one.
Bhutan was a closed kingdom for a long time.
Yeah, yeah. I got those.
I have a buddy of mine in China.
Well, he's kind of a buddy.
We email back and forth about stuff and he gets me stuff sent out of there.
He's done it twice.
And one of the things he sent me was this.
What was it? It was Bhutan.
He called it.
Gold Bhutan.
Anyway, it was it was right from the
that that it was at the base of the of the Tibetan mountain there, right?
That's where it was harvested at.
And it smelled just like fuel, right?
Oh, wow. Like strong honey oil fuel.
It was so awkward and gnarly, but we called it butane gas, you know,
Bhutan gas because it smelled like fuel.
Yeah. So we called it butane gas.
That that line. Yeah.
And that's what I crossed with the Hemingway.
And then I crossed that with the cherry bomb and made the cherry.
So the cherry is a real cool collaboration of a lot of strange exotic shit.
But there's a real wild side to that Bhutanese.
If you piss off that Bhutanese or anything with Bhutanese in it.
Yeah. She's going to hurt me and get pissed on you.
Yeah, I would. I would imagine.
So it's a wild, jungly place where I've seen their strains.
Because I in Bhutan, I know that like there are wild cannabis growing at literally all
over randomly and different little even from house to house, you know,
a hundred meters apart might have different little cultivars or strains or whatever.
They have going on.
But they tend to be pretty jungly, wild stuff.
Yeah. Same with South Africa from farm to farm or Jamaica from where you are.
You know, you can have slight variations
on stuff because of whatever their breeding practices are, you know.
Yeah. And elevation, all of it, especially in some of those island places
where elevation goes from sea floor to high, super fast.
More UV is always good.
Up to a point. Yeah.
Right. So too much UV.
It's like if you grow plants in all day,
full sunshine and then you grow a clone of that plant under all day laughing
sunshine or dappled sunshine, you're probably going to get a 10 percent bigger
yield or 15 percent bigger yield on your all day sunshine plant.
Yeah. But that 10 or 15 percent is just pure vegetable fiber from the UV.
Yeah. It just makes everything bigger, not better.
Yeah. It actually reduces the potency of the resin
because it swells up everything so gnarly, you know, all the UV is just
putting that vegetable growth.
So we used to take for our commercial interest, we would grow full sun.
Yeah. But for our plants that we smoke,
we would either we build laughings over them or we kept them positioned around
trees so they would only get half a day of full sunshine and then half a day
of dappled sunshine. That's really good advice, too.
For some of these longer flowering
indoors strains that you have, would you recommend a different light hour time for
indoors on some of your longer flowering strains?
A different what?
Light flowering time.
You know how most people go to 12 hours as a standard.
Do you ever recommend different flowering times for any of your strains?
Well, if it comes from the equator, anywhere around the equator,
what I will always do to it is during the second half of flowering,
I'll either drop my photo period to 12, 5, 11, 5 or 13, 11, you know,
or 11, 13, I mean, with 13 hours of darkness.
Right. Yeah. Because they grow pretty much year
round with very slight photo period changes.
Yeah. So sometimes I've had people have long
flowering sativas all day, many times they've told me it won't stop flowering.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
OK, you just cut your cut your light hours from 12 to 11 and that'll fix that in two weeks.
I remember I ran into a Malawi.
This is the first time I ever ran into something like this.
And I had it in 12 hours of light.
And this is the first time I ever learned
about light hours, moving them or fluctuating them.
And I was like three months in nothing, no, no flower formations.
And I hit a bode.
I'm like, bode, what is going on?
What do I not know?
And he's like, reduce your light hours, Demi.
You know, it's like reduce and watch it.
Watch and then, you know, start reducing and we ended up moving down to eight.
And by the end of eight, it would finish eight hours of light.
And it doesn't seem like it's enough.
It's counterintuitive.
You think it won't yield enough.
But it was perfect for that Malawi.
And you only really have to do it for the last few weeks.
Right. Just so if you know about that, that's why I like sourcing geographical
varieties and strains, because I know a lot about different strains from different
locales. Yeah.
So if I know where it's from or where its constituents of the hybrid are from,
I can assess all kinds of things right off the bat.
I can assume a lot of things.
Yeah, yeah.
So that helps me a lot.
But if I'm just.
If somebody's offered me some seeds, I'm like, well, where is this from?
Where where did the genetics come from?
And they go, well, it's blue pops, blue boingo and gorilla funk cookie mass.
And that tells me nothing.
Zero.
Tells you nothing about anything about it.
You don't even know if it's an Afghani.
If you don't know those specific names for those strains, you have no clue.
No, nor do I really trust people who I don't know to tell me what's real.
And they may, in fact, not know shade on them.
They may believe it's true because somebody told them that they believe that.
And it wasn't true.
Like I've heard I've heard some good,
fantastic stories that I just don't think are true.
Yeah, yeah.
And yeah, the road to hell is paved with good intentions.
There's a lot of people who are great people, just warm hearted people that will
tell you information that isn't correct because they truly believe it to be true.
And they trusted the person who gave it to them.
And that person might be a great,
trustworthy person, but the person that, you know, just got it wrong once.
We did.
You have somebody who I'm just going to use an example here of something.
Let's say a Cinderella ninety nine.
Right. Yeah.
They'll grow Cinderella ninety nine and they'll end up with.
Yeah, I don't know, let's say five females.
Right.
So one of the females will be outstanding.
Like in my scene, C-99 line.
Now, if you want to look for something really outstanding,
what you're looking for is an extra beefy female.
OK, she is vigorous and extra beefy to the max.
She yields about 20 percent more than any other Cindy.
She is the most great or the most
pineapple delicious resin.
So killer ever.
OK, that's my favorite cut.
Right. So let's say somebody grows them and they find that that female.
Right. Yeah.
Well, that's special. Right.
So then they her Griselda.
Yeah. Right.
Yeah. So then they decide, fuck, I need to breed this.
So then what is the hybrid X crossed with Griselda?
Not C-99.
No. So you lose a bunch of the strain.
You don't know.
It kills the anthropology of it all.
And that's what I have to you know, I mean, I run it backwards in my head and go,
oh, it's probably going to be like this.
You know, there's a lot of stuff I can assess.
But you tell me it's gooey cookie funk and I don't know.
Yeah. I mean, with with if we know that it's C-99, we can go, OK,
Jack Heratite, Skunk One, Hayes, Northern Lights Five.
OK, we can you know, you can easily break it down.
But yeah, once they start playing around
past the baselines and it's just random names and they aren't really there's not a
lot you can get from that. And to be honest, if I see something
a line that is like eight things in it, like some people get all excited,
the more hype strains are in it, the more excited they get.
Because me, I walk away the second I see too many because I'm like, I don't even
know what I'm going to get from this, nor would I want to breed with that.
Because it's going to be completely unpredictable.
Holy shit.
You know, unpredictable is an understatement, right?
Yeah.
It just it's a totally different way of.
If you look on my site, you'll see that I do have polyhybrids for sure.
Yeah, but I have a lot that are true two way F1s, true three way F1s and true four
way F1s. Yes.
Once you have a five way or above of an F1, then it starts to become a poly.
But a lot of the ones these days are like ten.
Yeah. I remember.
If not more.
Someone showed me the seed finder page for animal mints and I went and looked at like
because you can do the strain map and see all the stuff in it listed.
It was like four pages long of of everything laid out because it's just
polyhybrid, polyhybrid, polyhybrid, cookies, triangle BX.
Right. It all ends up being OG Kush in the end.
But none of that really matters because they've crammed OG Kush into itself and all
of its expressions 90 times over, you know.
Right. And, you know, I like to keep everything separate, too.
I like to know when I'm not double dipping in some gene pool.
So if I if I have a C-99 crossed with an OG Kush and a C-99 crossed with a metal
haze, OK, I have those two strains now.
Oh, I did it again.
C-99 metal haze, C-99.
And I was going to say, you see what happens when you have resin on your brain?
I do. I'm seeing my future right here.
You are. You are.
I was such a such a forgetful person.
Oh, yeah. OK, now I.
All right. So if you have those two, those two varieties, those two hybrids, right.
Now you smoke one. Oh, yeah, this is really good.
It gets me high. Then you go to smoke the other one.
You go, yeah, that's pretty good.
Well, it could be every bit as good as the first one.
But you've already built up some tolerance to the C-99 in the first one.
Yeah. The second C-99 hybrid is going to be a little less impressive to you.
Yeah. So when I'm testing things or sampling
them and want to know really more about them, I got to make sure that I'm not cross
cross encountering some things in two different ones, because then I have to
adjust that into my whole deal. Yeah.
That's not an obvious thing to think of either.
Like building tolerance to a specific strain or type when you're doing testing.
So would you recommend like maybe the next day, the following day, maybe smoking
one in the morning and one at night and vice versa the next day?
Or you can or you can clean your palate if you've got if you've got a couple
of hybrids that have a common P1, right, then you could just clean your palate
in between, right? Yeah.
You could say you could sample one, check it out and then go for something way out
of the bandwidth. Yeah.
Come back to the second one and then sample it.
I do that a lot of times.
That works really good for me.
That makes sense. That makes a lot of sense.
Give your give your receptors time to change a little bit.
Yeah, one of my favorites to clean my palate with is Congo, right?
Yeah. Why is that?
The Cindy Congo is super well, because it's one of those, you know, you know,
the strains that you could be smoking different weed all day.
You can be kind of baked, you know, hanging around it.
And then you smoke that weed where you take a few hits and it just wipes out all
the rest of anything you've ever smoked and just takes over with a new high.
That's Congo. Yeah.
The breakthrough highs.
I was called his breakthrough highs.
That's kind of everything else.
It just stomps out any kind of mild effects.
What kind of smells come out of the Congo that you work with?
They are real, like kind of rotten meat with like a sickening sweet background.
Interesting. It's it's accurate, but it's not fuel.
You know what I mean? It's like it's like rotting meat is the best way.
It's sweet, but in a kind of a sickeningly sweet way,
kind of like the Matanuska Thunderfuck.
It's weird that they smell a lot alike, but they do.
I wonder, I mean, does it smell like a dead body?
Maybe.
Because sweet, like I remember.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But you have to imagine what I mean when I say that there's a sweet component to it.
It's not like, oh, yeah, I mean, it's like it's like, oh,
but it's strangely compelling.
Someone I knew that worked in a funeral home always described the debt and they
described this to me before I smelled it, because I would do I would help them in
the in the funeral home, but they said bodies, dead bodies smell like sweet shit,
sweet, rotting meat.
There's a sweetness to it, though, that's really freaking weird.
It's sort of like sugar cookies.
Yeah. Oh, wow.
Oh, my gosh. So it's almost wow.
That would be a really weird but attractive smell.
I mean, I've smelled body odor smells in cannabis like what was it?
Bodies. He has a string called Hippie Slayer
thirty three, I think, and it smelled like straight B.O.
But it smelled yummy like I wanted to eat it.
Like, why would you want to eat human B.O.?
But I did. I'm with you.
I'm with you. The metal haze was pure cat piss.
I'm just pissy.
You would think if you opened a bag of that, anyone who walked in would think,
whoa, did the cat just pee in here? Yeah.
It was pure piss.
But again, strangely attractive and compelling.
Attractive.
Yeah. Do you still keep that metal haze cut?
No, I lost the metal haze cut to police.
Rest in peace metal haze.
Fucking police. Fucking pigs.
They always get them. I mean, that cut was really special.
I got to work with it a few times and it reminded me of a maybe a more in the
structure and skunk one dominant because it wasn't super, super, super like
lanky haze, but it had a good structure to it.
Right. Good bud structure and stuff.
That was such a cool line, man.
That was such a reason.
The one of the main reasons I crossed it to the
iron Cindy was to preserve it to some extent because they're very similar.
Yeah. Right.
They're very. Yeah.
Yeah. Definitely.
It's that skunk one or like five haze combo that you can see in both of them.
Why? Yeah, because I did it to make the iron Cindy.
I combined metal haze and the C-99 because the C-99 is like a little metal haze kind
of a faster C-99 is really unique.
I really love it.
I mean, it has a kind of a it's like a poor man's haze.
Definitely a lot of hazy sativa qualities to it.
Not all, but a surprising amount for a eight or nine week plan, you know,
I think that's why C-99 gained such popularity, because people want that type
of high in the same kind of flowering time they could get from some of these
Afghanis, and it's one of the few lines other than like high in long since
Appalachia that I found that really captured the ability to capture
such even a short flowering time like that.
It's like C-99 is the only one I've ever seen that did it.
That's why I grabbed it up so fast.
I was like, oh, my God, this is this is really like a fast sativa with some
definite longer sativa flowering qualities.
Yeah. Yeah.
And I I love the C-99.
I think she's fantastic, especially now that I found that Buku grapefruit mama.
Yeah. No kidding.
See, I'm a sucker for that.
All right. Not grapefruit. I'm sorry.
Pineapple. Yeah.
The pineapple one, man, that's her pinnolene that that what you would refer
to as like cat pissy smell, but like mixed with the pineapple makes
the flavor translate so well, like it actually tastes like pineapple.
Sharp citrus pineapple, sharp pineapple.
Yeah, it would it would it would be so hard for someone to intentionally make that
again from scratch, I think is one of the most pineapple things there are in cannabis.
Super cool.
It really, really is pineapple.
I mean, especially with a little cure on it, two weeks of a cure.
And you open the jar and it's like, damn.
Yeah, yeah.
That's one that I do miss a lot and I've actually been trying to look for it.
I think CSI Humboldt might have grabbed it recently.
So hopefully that that one's going to come back in rotation soon.
Now, you have a book coming out.
You can always get the pineapple.
I mean, I'm not sure.
I don't know what the ratios are, the percentages of chance that she pops up.
But I did find her within
probably
15 females.
OK, I found one.
And I've had friends of mine that have found them.
So they're not super hard to find.
No, no, they're in there.
Definitely.
Probably one.
Well, probably one in eight, maybe one in 12, something like that.
So if people are interested, do you still
carry that line in seed form and sell it on your site?
Absolutely. Awesome.
Awesome.
Do you preserve the C99?
They're still like the F5s that I have made.
And what happened was last time I made them, I made a shitload.
I put most of them in deep freeze cryo.
Good, good.
So now I just tap from a smaller source.
Once they run out, I bust into the deep freeze cryo, bring a bunch out and do it
again so it can stay the same.
I don't have to keep inbreeding and inbreeding.
And you don't have to keep yanking them in and out of the cryo constantly every
time you want to take out a pack and fluctuate.
Right, right.
And I love this.
I love a couple of the Finos, but the pineapple beast is my favorite.
And I'll always want to be able to get her.
So I didn't want to risk it on the off
chance that because sometimes it's like with the skunk, man.
Sometimes it's just cannabis.
Mother Nature just goes, ha, ha, ha, ha.
Yeah, there's just nothing you could do.
You try to combine what you think is going to work in a certain way.
And it comes out almost opposite.
Yeah.
Now, twice now I've combined roadkill skunk male with roadkill skunk female.
I get all the same spread that I would have
if I would have pretty much crossed anything, any other two.
Yeah. You know, it always comes out spreading the spread.
I can't get to isolate down what I what I just did recently for just
because that pisses me off, yeah, yeah, is as I took the Vietnam black jungle
sativa since I had the male flowering, right?
Yeah. And I had a roadkill skunk candy.
It was only a little clone, right?
A little clone. I was like, OK, I popped it in the flowering tent, you know.
Yeah. Made a flower and it only ended up about
this big, but it got pollinated with that gnarly.
If you've never smelled the V black before, let me tell you, it's it's not like
anything else ever I've smelled in my life.
It's sort of like nag champa incense.
Yeah. It's real sharp.
Oh, it's just God awful, exotic and delicious.
But I mean, so I crossed it with that.
Right. It's a sharp, acrid terpene profile.
Right. Yeah.
So I brought the roadkill skunk up against it.
Now I'm going to end up with a long flowering son of a bitch.
It's going to be 12 weeks at least.
Yeah. But if I grow these out and I get a high
percentage of roadkill skunks, you can bet I'll be waiting them down to shorter
flowering and be able to keep that roadkill skunk because I'm sure that V
black will rule dominant in many of the things, especially the turf combo.
Right. Yeah.
Yeah.
I should be able to, in theory, inbreed these.
Yes. Right.
Combo and get all roadkill skunk.
They might be 11 weeks.
They might be 10 weeks.
But I should be able to do it because I
can't get my skunk line to come all roadkill.
It just it won't. I've tried three different ways.
And I always get the same spread no matter what I do.
I've tried two different ways with a few
different lines, and it is very hard, especially once the bud is dry to lock in
that smell. Once the bud dries, it's like that smells gone.
Sometimes that is the case.
Yeah. Sometimes it just depends on a lot of things.
It's like what I do now more recently, only for the last, I don't know,
three years, maybe four years or so, is I used to never dry my weed too dry
because I like to smoke it when it has just a skosh of moisture still in it.
Right. Yeah.
Yeah. It's much, much smoother.
Absolutely. You smoke super, super dry weed.
It's a little hot. Yeah, man.
So I always like my weed like that.
So it's hard to store weed like that without consistently burping it.
Exactly. Exactly.
Or else it loses the smells faster. Right.
Yeah. So what I do now is, oh, and this works good.
But I take and I mummify it. Right.
I mean, I dry it so fucking bad.
You touch it, it'll just crumble.
OK, that's how dry I dry it. Yeah.
I very carefully put it in big jars and put it in a big insulated cooler and I
store it right now when I want to hit that weed or check it out or smoke it or
whatever. I just open the jar up.
My humidity around here is usually around 50 percent, which is fine.
Fifty, sixty percent. That's fine.
And I take some very carefully out of the jar.
I set it in an open bowl, close the jar, put it back.
And then I let it just set out in my room for about a few hours.
Usually check the moisture level because fast it'll start soaking that up.
I bet.
Moisture from there. Right.
Yeah. And then it gets to that perfect
consistency within several hours.
Sometimes it takes overnight.
It depends if the humidity is low. Yeah.
But but by the next day or within a few
hours, boom, you not only have the perfect moisture level in your buds, but the
smells just come out with a vengeance that it all starts processing again.
Yeah. Once you mummified it, you stopped it.
Yeah. You stopped everything it's doing.
There's no moisture in there. Right.
Yeah. So it preserves your buds for a super
long time. So I take them all.
I put them in all smaller containers like like either pint jars or what are they?
Quart jars. Yeah.
I save them all that so that I never have to bust one open and keep opening it.
You know, that way I can burn through one in a relatively short amount of time.
And I'm going to keep opening it and close it.
Having more moisture get in there.
Yeah. Concentrate on that fluctuation.
I opened up some Blue Rye in 1947 a few days ago.
That was five years old.
It's been in storage for five years.
I did that to it.
Five years and it wasn't frozen or anything.
Perfect. No, no.
It was just now. Understand.
I store them in a big, gnarly, insulated cooler.
OK, this cooler is in a place that is pretty cool.
Never gets really warm. Gotcha.
So the real key to the long term storage is having your degree variants be very
small in any 24 hour period. Right.
That makes you only want that to change like a degree or two.
Max Max.
That will store it as long as it's cool for a super long time all by itself.
So mine stays like that in the cooler.
Five years, buddy. Five years.
I broke it up, let the moisture absorb it.
I squeezed it and it went, mama.
You know who else is blowing my mind is Bodie.
He has like this this barn with buds hanging in it.
And for years he can have buds in here
and just of all different land races that people want to pick it up.
But because Santa Cruz's humidity is so perfect, it's just like a humidor for Bud
in last year's. It's crazy.
Absolutely crazy.
That is nice.
You know, like here, it's really a lot of times here in Oregon.
It's too wet to really.
I mean, I can pop them in the room since I don't trim the plant at harvest.
Now I just take the whole plant. Right.
Yeah. Yeah.
All the big leaves will come down and protect most the buds from the light.
Yeah. Sometimes, man, I just have to hang them
in the grow room to let them dry, you know, and they're not in any direct light,
but there's a lot of reflected light, which is not my favorite.
But I sometimes have to do it because my humidity is 90 percent plus for a week.
Yeah. I mean, and I can't dry anything like that.
If I put it in the jars, I'll be mold city.
Oh, yeah. Yeah.
Well, my girl who I have I have a high fund, this tool of hers,
she had a dehydrator, right?
There you go. If it's too much, we right.
When I pull them down, I take them on a little buzz.
I stack them all in that dehydrator.
I let that fucker roll for about an hour.
Mummy dry.
Yeah. Very carefully.
Put them in the jars and put them away.
And that works like a champ.
But during the summer, I don't need it.
I can I can mummy dry.
I'm just hanging around.
You know. Yeah.
So you have a new book coming out.
We have the TLO version one and two, correct?
Yes. Is this the B3 or is this a whole new book?
Whole new book. What do we got?
Tell us. It's.
I've leaned away from the whole tea thing, right?
I don't like teas anymore.
All right. What I like is a perpetual tea.
I call it the churn, right?
It's a constant addition to your water that you back off when it's near harvest.
The whole book will explain it, but it is the book and bomb.
Right. OK, that's how I keep I adjust my water and I give in the new book.
There's like, I don't know, probably 10 soil recipes for any situation,
no matter what you can get and what you can't get with tons of options for what you
can sub in. That was a point of problem for some people where they would not be
able to get something in the original recipes and they would sub in something
else that's not good. Yeah.
Or or they would just leave it out completely.
Some things you can leave out. It's no big deal.
With other things, that's not the case.
Yeah, yeah.
So what do you got?
It's all these new soil recipes.
It's all the new dynamics around growing in general.
It shows new micro pond style, right?
Which is essentially using the catch trays as little micro ponds.
Yeah. Yeah.
Where the water sits in for a while, you have some alfalfa and whatnot in there.
All the micro life grows and then gets
sucked back into the plant and everything is beautiful.
That method works like unbelievably good.
I'll have to check that out. I've never heard that.
Oh, it's so kick ass, man.
So easy. It's like it's like top dressing, but it's
it's like top dressing that works much faster.
Right. It's like you get results within days.
You can see the effects of what you've done.
And so that's a that's a new component to the book.
What else are you adding in? What else are we covering?
Oh, my God.
I've got so many new things about lighting and sprouting and vegging and
some detailed information about the lighting and photo periods.
Like you said, how to do sprouts, clones, all keeping with the TLO methodology.
You know, I have I have an extensive troubleshooting section
that I believe will handle any problem anybody can have.
That's killer.
I'm pretty sure because I've seen with the first two books, I've seen a lot of
specific issues people have.
Yeah, it's their own fault.
It's usually because they can't source something, you know, along those lines.
Yeah.
Well, are they use something that's not what I said to use?
Like a couple of people have really bound
themselves using kelp extract to mix with their soil mix instead of kelp meal.
Ah, yeah, that'll do it.
And that's a synthetic process to make the extract.
Right.
But the kelp. No, no, no, no, no.
Kelp extract is it's all now it's fine.
It's just highly, highly concentrated.
OK, you start adding four cups of that to your soil.
You're done.
Just
potassium overdose is one of the ugliest,
most horrible ways to lose your plants because it is an ugly, ugly death.
So now I know people are going to kick my
ass if I don't ask you about your roadkill skunk.
You mentioned it briefly.
Where did you source it?
What was it like?
Can you describe it a little bit?
OK, long ago in Northern California, I made lots of friends.
Yeah. When I went to the
what was the cup, the Emerald Cup in 2013.
Yeah. I got ahold of an old friend of mine
in Willis that I knew had the skunk.
I knew he was a gatekeeper of it.
I knew that.
So he was, you know, paranoid, skeptical.
He kept calling me worldwide rev.
Why is that?
You know, he just didn't dig the fact that I was
so out of hiding.
Yeah. Oh, yeah.
Yeah, for sure.
So so there was that aspect.
So anyway, I worked on him for a while,
about six months, and we finally made a deal.
I would trade him some of my Mohawk and for some of this stuff.
Right.
So we finally got together and he finally did.
And he assured me that he hadn't bastardized it.
You know, it was the original skunk line, which I remember when it was first
before it was skunk, it was called Red Russian, right?
Red Russian. OK.
That's what it was before everybody realized how skunky it was.
And the rest is history.
Was there a Russian river up there in North Carolina?
Yeah, that's where that's part of the why it was named that.
Yeah, right off the Russian River.
And and it was very red.
Yeah, makes sense.
So so anyway, so it's always had from seeds from it.
It's always had kind of a spread.
There's always some sweeter, some like body odor, stinky feet ones.
And then there's like really skunk roadkill, skunky ones.
There's pissier ones.
There's even some with a little bit of a sweet component to all of those are very
rare. Yeah, with this plan, I've I've I've grown some of these out several times now
and I get I get a nice spread.
I get roadkill pretty often.
Yeah, I would say one in eight maybe.
Yeah.
But but I don't have enough of a numbers of those spreads really say that for sure
yet, to make it I've gotten it about one in eight so far from three runs.
Right. Yeah.
So the road kills the problem with the scum is that there's no way to tell it's
roadkill until two weeks before harvest.
I know of no way. Yeah.
Right. Because the smell indicator,
nothing else. All the turpins stay, stay changing.
I'm going to have to plug this in.
That's right. I'm running a low battery.
All right. We'll keep it going.
All right. Let me see if I can.
Do this and not screw things up.
I'm sure it'll be cool. Oh, I'm a techno wizard.
It'll be fine.
Don't worry, I got this handle.
Come on, baby.
OK, how's my audio? Perfect.
All right. Because sometimes when you plug it in, the audio goes to hell.
Yeah, no, you're good.
So let's talk about the morphology of this.
Was it a pure Afghani?
Was it a hybrid? What did you see from it?
I've heard three what I consider to be
legit stories for people I consider to be trustworthy.
Yeah. So I'm not really sure what it is.
Yeah.
The one consistency that I have heard a lot is that it was a South American.
Cross to the original Indica that came to Northern California.
OK, there was that kind.
Remember with the leafy florets?
Yes. Yeah. Right.
That was all over suddenly.
Everybody had it right then.
And it was real purple and real gnarly.
But somebody now the best I know is that was crossed with a South American.
OK, that's what that's what originally brought the skunk line, which was
when it was red Russian, it was and even skunk.
It was very resistant to things like mold and pottery mildew.
It didn't have a problem with any of that stuff.
And as it now that it's an IBL, I don't know, 13 or 15 or 20.
Now it's got some of those standard weaknesses to go with it.
It's not so not so resistant to everything anymore.
But it's still pretty much the plant I remember.
You know, I mean, granted, that was a long time ago.
And I am Mr. Magoo.
Yeah. But from what I remember, I would my best my best estimate and feeling is
that he did give me the true one that he has inbred himself.
Yeah. But like I said, the skunk has a thing
where it just won't it won't go where you think it will go when you breed it.
It won't. Yes.
It'll just do it standard.
It'll just whip out bandwidths of the different turps, the different
morphologies, you know, all of the morphologies are close.
The turps are turps are wide ranging, you know, there's
the two killers are the body odor, stinky feet and the skunk.
Yeah, they are soup.
Now there's another one that I remember that is also in these a piney one.
Right. Yeah.
People love pine, super pine resin.
I mean, really sharp.
It's almost skunk.
Yeah. But pine resin.
Yeah. And those are probably the most potent in the bunch.
Do you notice any intersex traits
specifically in that line or any of the skunky stuff?
Do you ever notice that?
Like, for example,
so a lot of the the the lines that we're seeing that have a lot of the skunky
traits, whether it's me or CSI, we've been doing a lot of stuff, almost all of them
are frickin full intersex every time we run into that same terpene profile.
A lot of the times it comes with intersex traits heavy.
I'm not sure I understand what you mean by intersex.
Herming Herming.
Oh, oh, no, no.
No, no, there's no there.
My skunk is sexually healthy, but that's good to know.
That would not surprise me because.
When the skunk came out, of course, you had to have it.
Yeah, of course. Yeah.
You had to have it. Yeah.
So everybody had it.
And while I was associated with some pretty damn decent breeders who were
teaching me stuff. Yeah. That wasn't the same for everyone.
Right. Yeah. Oh, of course.
So everybody and their mom was breeding it.
I mean, just everybody did.
So tons of it, tons of the seeds of skunk.
Yeah. The market.
But, you know, you got people who just
they just can't seem to put in the work it takes to make sure that you're not
blowing Hermes or, you know, any of it testing the line and seeing what you've
made, any of it. Yeah, that's a lot of art.
Should I do?
I do the most deep inspection on unknown plants.
If I have anything that I don't
that I'm not already totally familiar with,
then I'm in there with my 30 times super light magnifying glass every day.
Well, yeah, you know, I'm looking close.
I'm seeing because I can recognize when Hermes are about to happen right before
they do, you know, there's a little mutant growth that occurs.
Yeah. Axial intersects.
You can see it's like a mutant growth, a mutant leaf growth kind of.
Because it's not it's different than how a female typically grows when absolutely
that yeah, sort of like it's trying to revenge a little.
So for the viewers watching this, I want I want people to take note because I often
talk about like different things you learn only through experience and breeding.
And one of those, if you'll notice, when when I'm sitting here talking with my
friend, the rep, he's talking about, you know, I know this line.
It's because I know the line.
I know what I can see from it.
And for someone who isn't super experienced running a bunch of different
lines, not only a bunch of different lines, but a bunch of the different
baselines, meaning your own like skunk one, Hayes, a lot of these land races.
It's hard to truly understand till you run them.
What it is when you can truly start predicting.
And that's what breeding is when you're able to predict, you know,
to to run your lines and then to see it in action and to realize, OK, I was either
right or wrong at this and make the next move.
That's that's all breeding is.
And when you get to this point in your
career, when you've been breeding 40, you know, 30 years, a lot of this stuff comes
second hand and a lot of it becomes a natural instinct as you're going through
these these things and there's there's even stuff you're telling me about
different traits of the of the leaf hairs on the cotyledons and stuff like that.
I have never even thought of and I spend all of my time looking at the plants,
you know, just constantly observing.
And that's how you learn is constantly observing.
You don't want to just let your plants,
you know, leave them in a room, let it auto run for a week or whatever.
If you're really into it, learn your plants at every fricking stage.
That's how you know.
And that's a great example of that.
Everything you've been saying about that just reinforces that 100 percent.
Right. And it's like when I was telling you about my little hash trick earlier,
it's like if you are a breeder who doesn't really know your shit yet and you're
dealing with lines that you're not really familiar with yet,
the easiest way to do it is to pick, let's say, four of the strongest, best,
vigorous females. Right.
Yeah. Grab a couple of the strongest, biggest, best males.
Throw them all in and let them breed.
Now, when they're about two weeks from finishing,
just go over them all with a magnifying glass, see who has the most resin,
get a grip on them, smell them.
You'll know the smells by then. Right.
Yeah. Everything will be less because they'll be full of seeds.
But you can take that into consideration.
You can then go in and check them out.
Then you get a really good idea of what you're dealing with.
Who's better than who?
Who's likely to be the king who sucks?
Yeah. Tell me what you just recycle plants that suck or make hash or do whatever you
want. Right. Exactly.
Let's make hash from those plants that turn out good that I don't know anything
about, but they're killer. Yeah.
I'll make hash from so that I can further dissect the exact resin profile relating
to the high type itself, which is which is what I cherish over everything else.
Because some weed just it makes me aggro.
Trainwreck do that.
You know, there's different hash plants that can do that for me.
The the the really super fast flowering plants, the ones that flower in like six
or seven weeks. Yeah. Yeah.
Those all have the exact same quality for me of what I call aggro weed.
Right. Yeah.
It's like I smoke them. I get really high, really baked.
I'm all, well, it doesn't last long.
It only lasts like an hour or something. Right.
Yeah. Yeah. Then you come out of it.
And then I'm like, fuck, I just in a shitty mood.
Yeah. It's like, oh, I just I don't like that.
Yeah. No, that's why I hate those super fast flowering ones.
I just do.
Do you think it's maybe like it just hasn't had enough time for the resin glands to
mature in different oils, obviously, because they're Afghanis,
a lot of different oils than than these longer flowering sativas.
Maybe that's what has something to do with the high.
Just not enough time.
Well, certainly it has to do with,
you know, the type of high, generally speaking.
Sure. You have that to high.
I just described that super up, super fast, really fucked up.
And then you're down there. I hate that.
Yeah. I just bugs me.
But on a longer flowering sativas, you have much more different kinds of highs.
Yeah. A lot of them come across much different.
Some are very evil.
Some are very happy.
You know, some are very you can't read a book because you have to keep rereading
the first paragraph a hundred times. That's my life.
Some are just like that.
So I like to get a grip on those smaller assets of it.
I agree with you.
You actually you absolutely I think it's impossible to get a sativa.
Ten week plus high from anything that's below seven weeks.
Yeah, no, I can't believe you could do it in eight.
I can't believe that. Yeah.
But I'm 99.
The closest thing I've ever seen is a Cindy.
Yeah. Yeah.
But so it would be rare.
But yeah, in order to get the kind of highs I really like and I really look for,
it's got to be a ten week or nine week, nine week exceptions.
I've seen twice in my life.
Almost every single breeder or someone I would consider a connoisseur
weed that has the experience of smoked a lot of different strains like and knows
what they've been smoking, they all tend to lean to that ten to eleven week high.
Everybody seems to kind of as we get older,
I think also our bodies mature, the chemicals in our brains change.
And I think we all tend to just kind of
navigate to that certain kind of high type of the end.
Really, really bizarre. But I've noticed it.
It's the best of both worlds.
It's really where the intersections meet.
You can it can go either way that way.
You can find anything you like.
Plus.
At 10 weeks, you generally speaking, almost always have much longer legs.
Right. Yeah.
Yeah. The legs will be much longer.
You get that six, that be that be black.
I'm telling you about.
Not only does that take 20 minutes to set in.
Oh, I bet. Yeah.
Twenty minutes. That's wow.
It's going to be 20 minutes before you're like, holy shit.
Before the rights like truly starts.
Right. Yeah.
And you're going to stay exactly that high.
There's no wobbling.
It's going to be like a freight train.
It's going to go up low and then, man,
you're not going to get off of that for maybe five hours.
That's crazy.
Cook you all day long.
That is awesome.
It is. It's one of my favorites for going,
you know, on bike rides or something, you know.
Oh, I bet. I love that super long flower.
It's a team of tie be black, anything like that.
The metal haze was killer for that.
The chunky cherry tie.
Oh, yes.
So what's what's some of the current work you're working on?
What is it? What's some stuff you're really excited about right now?
Right now, I'm just kind of in a blurb where I'm just bringing up some
stuff to look at. Yeah.
I just switched over my lights for winter.
So I'm all back to my eye blue.
Sixty five hundred Kelvin metal halide lamps.
Yeah. So once I once I get those in, I have to do a little adjusting to my
environment to make sure I can run everything right because they're freaking
hot, right? Yeah. Yeah.
And I run tents. So.
Yeah. So anyway, I'm dialing that all in.
So what I thought I would do is pop up a few.
I've got right now just my ones to have a look at right now that I have up.
Are some Afghani orange that's so old.
I'm not sure if it's a hybrid of Afghani orange or something else.
And I'm not sure who gave it to me, but I had it in my four star can.
Oh, wow.
But it's so old that the label wore off.
And all I can read is Afghani orange was part of it.
So I had to see what those were. Yeah.
And they look they look cool. They look good.
And then, of course, the G13 Hayes. Right.
Oh, yeah. And I ended up I planted like six.
I still got two more seeds.
Yeah. If I had six, I got four to come up to die.
Just you know how they are with super, super old seeds.
Yeah. You just kind of came up and went, no.
Yeah. And then the other two, which are a male
and a female, and I don't want to jinx myself or anything, but they both look
really good. Yeah. So I'm testing though.
Now I just pop that G13 of flowering.
Oh, you bet I did. Oh, that's awesome.
I need to be I need to be looking at that. Right.
And then on the in the other 10, I started up some cherry thunder.
Fuck. Oh, nice.
And some Cindy Black, which was.
Yeah. Nice.
Yeah. So so with so that here's why.
Because in my head, if my Vietnam Black skunk doesn't work out how I think.
Yeah. Then I'm going to try to Cindy Black skunk
and see if I can lock in those fucking skunk turbans because something will do it.
Eventually, I'll do it.
I just have to find a gene that goes in there and knocks them all.
Caddy won't get some to line up more uniform.
Yeah. A gene that somehow in one strain makes that link trait to the skunk smell,
have something, you know what I mean?
Like a link trait that's good with it brings it out.
Something that locks it in.
Something that'll just stick right to it and make it so I can recognize when it's
there. Exactly. Something visual, visual marker.
Visual early on a marker expression is what I call them.
And that would be super nice to have because with the skunks at present.
The morphology is, you know, pretty random.
They're not they don't have a wide range, but there's a lot different ones.
It's not an indicator.
Nothing is locked to the roadkill.
And as far as any patterns, leaf patterns,
petiole patterns, root size, root density, root path.
I cannot find anything that is only visible with the roadkill skunk.
Right. Nothing.
So I'm like, that pisses me off because as much as I don't mind flowering some plants.
Yeah, I am used to and I do like knowing early at least having a grip on what I'm
dealing with. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah.
It's I mean, as a breeder and as someone who has goals in their breeding, that's
like that's the main part.
It's never seen.
If I have to take up if I have to flower ten females to find my my roadkill skunk
every time. Well, that's not how I do things.
Yeah. Yeah. That's it.
I mean, the whole idea of becoming better and getting to know what you're doing is
to be able to take shortcuts.
Right. Right. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah.
And that's that's the whole point of the experience.
Yeah.
As I mean, if you if you don't know anything about breeding, you can probably do
really well if you're just willing to do the work, flower out all the plants first,
harvest them all, sample them all and then bring have saved clones and then just
breed with those.
And you'll probably have learned more than any most other breeders out there in just
that one experience by going through, taking good notes, smoking everything and
testing. You'll you'll be more advanced than ninety nine percent of seed makers, I
should say, out there. I agree.
I agree. I tell people a million times, you know, you're going to start out.
It's going to seem like a lot. You'd be taking a lot of notes, be able to.
But pretty soon you're going to start to know a lot of things just intuitively from
what you see. You know, it's you know, it becomes much easier, especially, like I said,
with mine that I'm familiar with.
You know, I can tell when they're a month old, a lot of things I need to know right
then. And that's what I know.
I know which expressions are linked.
I know which markers I'm looking for.
I know which markers equals something I don't want, you know.
Yeah, and that's a cool thing about keeping your little Galapagos Island of gene pool.
It really is because you've had all this time to learn these specific strains, to learn
how they breed. And when I tell people to know your breeder, this is what I'm talking
about. You should be able to have a confident conversation with your breeder about
their lines, about the history of their lines.
And if they're passionate breeders, if this is what they love, you should be able to
have a conversation like this.
And this has been an exceptional, exceptional conversation with you.
Is there anything else you want to get in and plug or talk?
Pardon me now? Is there anything else you want to get in before the end of the show and
unplug or?
Well, let's see what the new book I should be able, I should be submitting the
manuscript around, I'm thinking first half of December.
OK, so that should be able to put it in print by the spring, I think.
That's awesome. So that would be super cool if you want to get a copy of that.
I mean, with this book, I, you know, in the first two books, one of the first things I
start out by saying is this is not a grow book.
This is not to teach you how to grow weed.
Yes. Yes. Right. This is assuming you already know how to grow weed and you want to grow
it all naturally.
And you want to grow it better.
Yeah. Yeah. So but now in this book, I was able to not only organize it better.
So after you read it, as you're growing, you can go, wait a minute, what was it?
You can actually find what you're looking for because I kept it all very isolated
chapters now.
Good. So you can go and look and reference it, which is something the first two were
lacking because, you know, I'm kind of a bozo.
I've never written a book before.
Oh, it's hard, man.
Like, oh, I can't even imagine where you start.
It's harder than you think it's going to be, too, you know?
Together, yeah.
And the saddest part, the saddest part is that the easiest part is actually writing the
book. Yeah.
It's the right millions and millions of times you have to go back through it and rewrite,
recheck, update everything, get to make sure everything's on track.
Because with TLO, I mean, I'm learning things, new things a couple of times a month.
I learn, whoa, I learn something new, you know, because I try new stuff all the time.
Well, you're a pioneer of TLO.
So I yeah.
And so so, you know, I'll be in the book like I was halfway through the book and I
discovered something and I was like, oh, shit.
So that's like that.
Uh, I go, oh, so now I have to go through the whole book, read it front to halfway and
correct every reference I've made that's relative to that.
And any spin off references that are relative to that.
Yeah. So it becomes a lot of tedious work.
But now it's I'm in my favorite part now.
I love this part. This is the home run right here.
This is this is where I'm just rolling through it from front to back.
I'm correcting punctuation, adding photos, just making sure everything is, you know,
my paragraphs are good. My punctuation is good.
I've said clearly what I want to say.
Yada yada. So this is the fun times.
This is all fun work now.
Do you have to do all the formatting when writing your books and like where the
pictures go and formatting of the text and everything?
Or does someone else do that?
I give a general format location.
Excuse me. Like a lot of times, you know, when I'm talking about something and I'm
showing a picture reference to it.
Yeah. Yeah. In the manuscript.
I note the photo at that point.
Yeah. You know, so that they know I wanted to be somewhere real close to that
statement. Gotcha.
So so, yeah, that works out good.
But they're pretty good about just keeping it my way.
You know, they they try to work out things.
What I do is I I give them like a bunch of extra like bud shots that are just I don't
have any place for them.
I just put them in an extra folder for them.
And I go, if you need to make space to, you know, say so my paragraphs are closer to my
pictures I put in there.
Just use one of these bud shots to even it all out, you know?
Yeah. Yeah. So so that works out good for both of us.
Shout out to Green Candy Press.
They're my favorite cannabis publisher.
They publish your books.
They did the strain cannabis indica and cannabis sativa volumes.
Yeah. And the cannabis grow guide.
And they do a lot of stuff like that.
I mean, they've always they've always done me right.
They've always treated me right.
They've always done what they said.
And when they said they'd do it, they do it.
And I first got hooked up with them through John over at Skunk, you know?
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He was he was buddies with Andrew over at Green Candy.
So I just hooked up with Andrew and I couldn't be happier.
May is a great guy. Everybody who works there is great.
It's it's a lot of it's it's good working with those people, you know?
Yeah. I met them through you.
And when I worked with them in the cannabis indica and sativa stuff, they were
fascinating. I mean, they were just so kind and generous.
And if I ever work with a book publisher, that's going to be the number one one.
I go through because it's just they're they're great people.
So I want to give them a plug.
Super easy to work with.
And, you know, like he knows that I would I've been struggling
with trying to finish the book.
You know, I just got my last hit from Covid not too long ago.
I know. Shit, it's fun.
Me hard. I didn't even get I just got like flu from the first one, you know.
But this one, man, this last one, and it gave me kind of long Covid.
I'm like extra fuzzy and sleepy.
All right. Let's cover.
Let's go over the website before we're done.
Kingdom organic seeds dot com.
Can you talk about it?
OK, yeah. So something when you go to Kingdom Organic Seeds,
there's a wide variety of stuff there, right?
Yeah. Read closely, because, you know, I'm telling you the real deal here.
When you read this, take them seriously.
It's not just a bunch of shit I've written on there to make it sound good.
Yeah, it's just it's the real deal.
So when you get to the site, you'll notice that up on the top bar,
there'll be the strains, right?
That's all the strains.
Well, right next to that is a button called Gambler's section.
Yeah. In this section is where you can get basically untested ish stuff
that I know because I'm familiar with.
It's probably going to work out.
I don't think I've ever had a bad gambler so far, and there's been a lot of them.
Yeah. So so you can get really good deals on stuff
before I really know what it's what it's about, you know, whether it's a
a full head or a miss, but there's nothing bad on there.
And you can get some really good stuff on there.
A lot of people just exclusively hunt that zone to get stuff for a good deal
before it comes in at the real price later down the road.
So make sure and check that out.
I bet. I mean, the thing is, a gambler section, the way you word it
is going to be totally different from like a person getting their clone
their first time crossing it, not testing it, releasing it.
These are clones you've worked with for a long time.
So you have a pretty good idea what these.
These are ones I have high confidence are going to be great.
They're going to be fine.
They're going to be excellent.
And I have like I said, I have I haven't thrown a dud
into the gambler section yet, and I've thrown I don't know, 30.
Yeah, that's killer.
So are you going to venture into Feminized Seeds at all?
I haven't asked you that.
Let me see. How do I put this? Hell no.
Oh, you said hell no.
Hell, hell no, because
Feminized Seeds to me are sexually unhealthy genetics.
There you go. That's that's all it's about to me.
And besides, Fem seeds are are bad
because of their sexual health to me.
Yeah. As a breeder, especially.
But I'm not a big fan of them anyway.
They grow. That's probably an unfair bias because
it was 15 or 20 years ago when I grew up and they sucked pretty bad.
Yeah, they do suck.
I'm sure they've come a long ways now.
But the one thing that I really don't like and I have never liked are auto flowers.
Oh, Jesus. Yeah.
It's just it's you know why?
Because no matter what it is, all the ones I've ever tried anyway.
Remember when I told you about those six or seven week plants?
Yeah, yeah. Yeah.
Flower six. They all have the same high type.
Yep. All auto flowers.
All auto flowers.
I don't care if it's Thai auto flower.
Yeah, it all has that exact same high to it.
So I just think those are a great option for somebody who needs them
and just needs to grow a little weed.
I could totally see it.
But as a breeder, a connoisseur, I poopoo those.
Yeah, for sure. Yeah.
You know, I remember Neville said the same thing, that he just couldn't do
anything good with root or else everything just turned into shit.
And I found this.
I don't want to say shit because it would be offensive to the people who stuff I use.
But it wasn't as good as the stuff I was able to do with regular butter period lines.
It is always subpar.
Yeah. Right. It's always just below what it should be.
It's like it reminds me of back about a decade ago.
There was a bunch of sativa that was suddenly released from Sweden or something.
Right. Yeah. Yeah.
It was acapulco gold and all that stuff.
Right. I got a pack of that right away.
Yeah. And I grew it.
And I thought, you know, this stuff looks pretty legit to me.
But it's all watered down.
Yeah. Right.
Whoever made it either was hideous at selecting, lazy at selecting or just didn't care.
And just, yeah, flowered and bred whatever they grew, you know, without really ever looking at it.
Because if you do it that way, your resin production will go down because you'll be selecting for the strongest, best plants.
And the two don't really mix.
Right. You're right.
You seldom have a super vigorous, wickedly beast like plant that is also incredibly potent.
Yeah, exactly. Right.
Usually they're they're the medium or, you know, they're very vigorous, very and they're very, very potent.
You know, yeah.
It's that energy on the other end of the scale.
I run across plants fairly often that are psycho potent, insane resin production.
But fuck, talk about hard to grow.
They have problems with everything, just like with anything.
People, cows, dogs, you have you have offspring that just suck.
Yeah, they just they have problems, you know, genetically, heart defects, nutrient defects, you know, just the same with plants.
You have individuals that just never make the grade.
But a lot of times those ones that fuck them up are the same ones that make them have massive resin production.
Yeah. Yeah.
That's it. Well, it's been an absolute pleasure having you on here.
Like I said, you are one of the people I looked up when I looked up to when I got into this and I still look up to and learn from you.
And it's an absolute privilege and a pleasure to have you on.
I know people will be begging to have you back.
And again, what do we have the name of your new book coming out and where it will be available?
Yeah, it'll be true living organics.
It'll be the druid guide.
The druid guide.
Yeah, it shows along with your basic stuff, like I said, teaches you how to grow in a lot more ways than the last one did.
It also shows very high order, high connoisseur, high artisan value methods.
Yeah. Ones that you probably don't want to start out trying to do.
To jump right into.
Yeah. The basic lessons I show you in the book, it will come much easier.
Like you said, to be a breeder isn't nearly as hard as you think it's going to be reading about it as when you actually get down and start to do it.
You can actually you're like, oh, that.
But you look at it on paper.
You're like, holy shit, I'll never be able to do this.
Exactly. Yeah.
No, you just got to jump in and learn and experience and screw up and keep screwing up because that's a lot of breeding is screw ups.
And if you're not screwing up, then you're not really breeding.
You're not really doing real selection.
And then a lot of people and then a lot of people can't handle that.
They screw up, that they're human.
So they blame the seeds or or the or, you know, blame something else.
Anything. Anything but them.
Right. Anything.
We've seen these emails for years.
We know where I, on the other hand, when I see something fucked up, I go, all right, what have I done?
Yeah. Yeah.
That's my instinct.
What have I done?
Yeah. It's a different mindset.
It's a different mindset.
Oh, you learn faster that way.
Take it. Take responsibility.
You're going to make mistakes.
Take responsibility and go, how can I not make this mistake again?
Exactly. Exactly.
That's what it's all about.
These are the lessons from the wise.
For sure. If you want to learn faster and actually learn stuff, that's the way to go.
Fuck it up. Don't be scared to fuck up.
Don't be scared to fuck it up.
Take responsibility. Learn how not to fuck it up next time.
And don't cross the streams.
And don't cross the stream.
This is advice from the Rev.
Thank you from all of us at the Breeder Syndicate.
And we look forward to seeing you again soon, my friend.
I'll be happy to come on again, man.
It's been super fun.
Thanks a lot for having me.
All right. Privilege and a pleasure.
Thank you, everyone.
Cheers.
Cheers. All right.
