All right, how's everyone doing?
Fucking lights bright as fuck. Hold on. Hold on
Minus
Little better. There we go. There we fucking go. It's a little better
What are you guys up to haven't done a live feed in a while I woke up in time to
How about that didn't sleep through it?
How's everyone doing?
Wait till people start rolling in
How's it that that's Brins I blame here for the the witchcraft shit, I don't I'm not a religious man myself
Nor do I have the power to use intention to bend my will that's become very fucking obvious
Yeah, so what are we gonna fucking talk about today?
Like I said, we can talk about UFOs if you guys want we could talk about fucking
Serial killers we could talk about whatever you want. We'd
Run a heath. What's up, brother? I
Miss an FYP play it fucking punk rock bowling. I'm so bummed so bummed. I
Kill to see FYP right now
Last year I went to was a toys that kill one and I'm just not I was never a big toys that kill fan
But I'd love to see FYP
So sad, but I also don't want to be around a bunch of fucking
Kovats spreading dirty pumps. So whatever it is what it is
Is blue dream trash or fire depends on what blue dream you got if you've got a blue dream that
Isn't the the old SC cut then probably trash
I mean, I haven't really seen good blue dreams aside from the old cut and that's I usually know someone says blue dream sucks
Either they're shit grower. They never had the real cut
How
Weed came from the serious a and B and how it's being you never know, you know
Maybe it was what's the word not panspermia, but the galactic spermia
Maybe that's how fucking weed came from. Do you think other entities have cannabis wherever they're from? I
would think that they've figured out how to
Get high off other shit, you know
Or maybe they know how to trigger their own brain chemistry through whatever I don't know
I don't even know if I believe that there are other things
outside of humans a very unfortunate humans, but I've been studying
UFO since I was a young kid very young kid and
my my
Evolution through through beliefs has been very
fluid and it's had to be because
It took me a long time to realize how many people were con artists and
You know, it's just like any any field any field you get into whether it's cannabis or the UFO world
Everybody's fucking trying to make money off something with some agenda
Is your favorite strange still the strawberry switchblade? Well, my favorite stranger usually berry based. So yeah, it's one of them
It's definitely one of them
I'd like to bring it back sometime soon, but it's really hard to tell what the market wants right now
The last life read I did I talked a little bit about it tiny little bit about
About that and and and the decline of the cannabis industry and how fast it's hitting
You classify it what do you classify a generation after open pollination?
Well, I mean if you're if you're taking it back to an open pollination then the next generation
Technically not by scientific standards would be an f1. That's how it's used in cannabis
So we just stick with that so other people can understand it talk about Irene
Irene came from smoked herb and rude boy rude boy. It came out of a bag of weed originally that and
Someone was selling as Irene and they they tried to get that cut or didn't get the cut or whatever
But then they found a cut later on that was so much like that weed that they called it Irene again
And that's the cut that we now have so it's more Irene, too
That's that's really the only one that people
See
Yeah, the market doesn't know what it wants it doesn't it's just an ignorant ass market
But I say that that hurts people's feelings. Are there any breeders out there that work lines anymore?
Only a few but there's not there's not
What's that smoke to herb?
There's not
There's not a demand for work lines right now
It takes time generations to work lines and you can't stay above
The curve if you're if you're working lines and that's really the way it is
Do you feel like strains are good enough or do you think breeding is still a need
Good enough for who?
Good enough for who is a question, you know, like some people are happy with cookies and cookies hybrids
Origins of sour diesel
That's a long one to go into that is a long one to go into but basically it's a
super skunk of sorts maybe
It looks like a super skunk
But it came via Vondo and Manny and Klopp. Those are three names that you can legit associate with it
It contains alien shmuggy is what it contains let's see
Time warp wasn't an old-school TGA that was at the end of TGA
See
Super skunk cam I would say that that is a good assumption
Kim 91 or a chem bag seed cross to whatever super skunk was going around and since we know
They were like, oh, I'm gonna go with super skunk
Whatever super skunk was going around and since we know they were like two different super skunk types going around at that time
It's one of those two. It's it's it's during an era where
We don't know which cup was passed a super skunk
Does everyone have some really suit? I don't know what you're asking, but I think you're asking if people really have super skunk
not
It's readily available. It's very easy to get with that said no for some reason
Nobody's using real super skunk
I mean not nobody but very few people are using real super skunk in their lines that are calling shit super skunk and most of them
Don't know how to identify what super skunk is in the first fucking place
Snowdog is still around. I don't have that cut anymore. Mine came by a matte elite
But I don't know who's holding it anymore it was very similar to Jizel
What's up mid style broganics who are your favorite breeders I see that's the question
I always get and like I'm always I hate doing it because there's so many people I would forget
You know, like I hate just naming a few
so but you can see who like I interact with who stuff I use who
Are our tight friend crew like there's a reason we're all close. It's because we all respect each other in our work
Didn't skunk VA popularize super super de kinky her mass super
Skunk VA his his mentor was the person who popularized the super skunk and
Skunk VA is a reason one of the reasons that it was in several people's hands. So I would say yes, that's that's partially correct
Could you name some African strange red Congo? I really enjoyed the herb
Good my favorite was the Senegalese Hayes from Afro pips who is no longer with us
You know, there's the Malawi
You know, there's the Malawi there's fucking
Let me go through some of the booth Swazi Swazi Rui Rui bard, which is Swazi red beard
Of course Durban poison from the from Durban South Africa
You have Kenyan you have Nigerian. There's all kinds of different different areas that had their their own specific
lines
Yeah, I I can't comment on top dogs skunk I I don't I really don't know
Can't comment on it haven't tried it haven't haven't smelled it haven't smoked it
But visually super skunks very easy to identify for me so
Elephant ear from Africa. Yeah, I've never heard of that one. I remember that fucking L quote-unquote elephant ear tie that
that
Tweaker ass Golden Coast was showing and passing to people that was a big old fucking broad-leafed Afghani
Skunk lovers could look into the future
Skunk lovers could look into Scott why why that's just bad info. That's the worst info I've ever heard
Hey, if you like skunk smells go look at the skunk one, like I spent
15 years telling people that that is the the one thing don't do is waste your time
Why do you think nobody is finding skunk and skunk one?
Well, I mean, why would you pass that advice or you just don't know and you're just passing advice for shits and gigs which?
whatever
Most greasy indica you can find in seed form depends on what you consider indica. I mean
Greasy
Afghani Pakistani, maybe to Charles a little greasier than most. How do you feel about egos genetics? I never heard of her
Did you ever experience skunk in the 90s? And if so, does that compare to the cuts that are I am way too young?
Like during the 90s, I was smoking brick weed like that's just what we had at the time
By the time skunk
Had had declined was about the time I started by like really dang shit. So
Not back then. No
What was cornbread mafia?
Cornbread mafia was a group of guys that all were working in the like what the South Florida
Louisiana in that region moving a lot of weed back then
Skunk in black domino
There were so many different versions of black domino and I've never seen a really good one myself
So, I don't know and it just depends on the skunk one
Are you talking about does it have skunky turps because those are two different things?
Your skunk one was light floral smells with some odd smells. Yeah, the way you recommended fucking skunk one for skunk
You didn't even have it. You didn't get it. That's silly
Only skunk I had was triple-a. I never heard of that one
Top-notch OG cush you've ever tried triangle fucking the cush cut by a resin
Louie oh geez great
My girl Tokyo roses Tokyo. Oh gee, I need to give her a call is great
I don't even know if that's still around
I mean, there's all kinds of great OG's that are fucking the same exact cut to with different names or bag seed thereof
very similar
Think Jizel cross to two
Think Jizel cross to cheese would be funky. I would think so
I would think that it has potential but because because UK cheese also expresses as fruity sweet berry
Aside from just cheese. I would think that it would throw a lot of variation and probably not be the most ideal
but you if you in
Theory if you had a big enough pop of the seeds you might be able to find it or in the f2 generation of it
You ever had NorCal lavender I did so many people consider lavender so many different things
Please you want strawberry turps back to I bring back strawberry
I think we might I think I think bitters might be doing some strawberry work very soon and we will be releasing it
You know, I got them f2 road kill shrimp. I
I'm sorry, bro. I'm sorry. Moe fucker
Can you talk about blue bonnet for those of us that don't know?
Yeah, blue bonnet was made by a lone star from Texas resin company who's no longer with us
he
Was releasing that at the same time I was releasing my first right berry stuff and working those lines
So at the time I didn't pay any attention to it. He was competition and I was an asshole
So I just I was like fuck it. I got the best fuck. I don't what fuck I need his shit for so
over time
as as a lot of seed makers did back then we sold every last bit of our stock of shit because it was not easy to
make money, so I
Didn't have any more of my right bear stuff and I lost them all
So I knew I'd have to go back and revisit blueberry and when I did I had kept that in my mind all those years
ago that you know multiple people had told me that the bonnet was a great place for blueberry muffin turps and blueberry candy and all
that stuff so I popped those along with I
Can't remember how many other blue lines, but there was a shitload a shitload old and new blue lines by DJ's work and others work
And others work with DJ's work, which is what blue bonnet supposedly is
It is the most supreme blue breeding line I've ever seen
Hands down better than better than anything I ever made
Way better
Being honest, so it's kind of a bummer that that I was such an asshole
I didn't reach out to Lone Star back then and try to collaborate or work with him, but we live and learn, you know
Best I could do is honor his work now and make sure he still gets the respect he deserved back then
But yeah, that's what blue bonnet is. It's a it's a perfect blue breeding line for for berry turps
It's pretty want to show it
Do you guys decorate your watering cans print decorates ours here just finish this you could
This it's pretty she does good work
Yeah, she's getting all nervous now, I don't see it
I'm proud of that
Do you think UK cheese is more skunk than skunk? Well, no, it's just skunk one
It's a selection of skunk one JJ said in a podcast at mass super skunk that Greg had is different than the one skunk a post
It'll pick so yes JJ is a thousand percent correct in that
Let's see, what else we got do you know what do you know about blueberry muffin top? I don't know anything about it
I never heard of it
Ever grow showing share a lone star sharing. We don't know I have it
Okay, the only person who would ask about blue skies Vienna it would be blue skies Vienna
so bye-bye
No one's that stupid now. Can you talk about your G's last ones? Yeah, it's a it's a super skunk. It's a it's
so for a long time G's was considered or or recorded as a a a
Mass super
Cross to chem dog D reversed now. Nobody was doing reversals back then
So it was implying that chem D had hermed on the mass super. However
Chem D does not normally spit viable pollen very unlikely very unlikely that the pollen donor even if it does her
however, mass super skunk was a herm bomb and
You know when you make when you when you put the s ones out when you do the crosses
You don't see any chem D in the crosses. However, you see it
Super skunk tons and tons of super skunk, but nothing cushy, you know, so and when I say cushy
I don't mean like Bubba cush. I just mean like those tight really dense buds super frosty like a
Chem D expresses very heavy Afghani to me like that. I
Don't you know if I answered that but whatever
You have any new projects you're excited about? Yeah, me and me and the homie have
CSI have some cool shit going on coming up very soon
I don't want to say what it is just because people will
Pretend they've already done it and release it tomorrow and a bunch of dummies will go by it. So leave it at that
But expect some good things in the next few months
Which of the crosses is the most homogeneous with the least amount of phenos?
I would say deep chunk deep chunk if you're gonna if you want to get something close to IBL deep chunks a great
selection for that
Oddly enough cedarberry farms strawberry sour which was the East Coast sour diesel
cut from
Devil's Harvest Crew
Which is probably the same one as the Choco cut that I call the Choco cut or some people just call ECSD
Cross to strawberry cream and it was what it was amazingly uniform. Let's see what else we got
Some GMO blue bonnet, I'm excited to see you fucking pop them
Blueberry muffin is wedding. Why would anybody buy that?
I got wedding cake crust a blue bonnet with actual blue turps. Fuck that shit blueberry muffin
Get that shit out of here. And by the way, the blueberry muffin cut was our old cut
But a few years ago some dumb fucks up in humble
Decided to take the name slap it on their shit to give it some hype so
Yeah, I just don't I used to give a lot of shits about shit like that because it's so disrespectful
but at this day and age
everybody's fucking ripping each other shit off that like if I if I got mad every time someone ripped my shit off or took a
Name or or did something stupid like I just be mad all day. I try not to be too fucking
Yeah, I leave that to brand-new
Most potent orange straight doesn't exist
Skunk one more predominantly fruity turps or Scott. There's no skunk in skunk one. There's no skunk in skunk one. Stop with that. Stop it
Fillings on bubble cush bubble cush is one of my favorite
Cuts it's one of my favorite lines to work with. However, there's not much hype for public
Oh, so there's not gonna be a lot done with it, you know
You're gonna stub your pinky toe if you don't drop some episodes. We have episodes recorded
We're just we've been doing a lot trying to to reprep my site get credit cards up which right now credit cards are up and
We accept up all forms or most forms of
cryptocurrency now
Let's see. I wrote some stuff down that I gotta say because I haven't mentioned it yet
So if you if you go sign up at our site
on the riot site and you you automatically get $10 worth of funds in your account
So if you're new member BAM, you get 10 bucks Wow to spend at the site and
you get discounts when you sign up to patreon and if you sign up to
Speakeasy patreon you get you can
Multiply the discounts. So if you're in both patreons and I think it's $5 a month
You get access to that also right now, let's see
Bitcoin
Bitcoin and we still take credit cards. So there is that
Yeah, I don't think most people know that yet, but whatever. Okay did some housecleaning. There you go
Well crybaby ever beyond breeder syndicate there. There's a chance. There's a chance Bubba Kush versus SoCal Matt SoCal cut
There's not much of a difference if you ask me, but I mean if you want to pick it apart, it would be by growers
Like in in certain rooms certain environments are both gonna look pretty goddamn similar
The SoCal master Kush cut had a lot more purple tendency to it in itself
didn't breed it as heavy whereas Bubba was the reverse of that for me it bred a lot of purple traits and
But the plant didn't really turn purple itself
You still have yet to find a seed with the LED herming the funnel tree. Yeah, see that's pretty cool
Not cool that it harms but you know, whatever
A Paxton should try cuz you mentioned you hated those turps. Is it dark and and robust herbs? No, I don't I don't hate Chitral turps
Chitral does have a lot of
terpenelein in it which for
something that isn't like a
Haze ish type is it's kind of unique
but the old Chitral
Like that wasn't blind bred towards being purple like the one that ace released early on and
That one had a lot of lemon to it like the green phenos were super lemon and I'm not a big lemon guy
But it was it was a nice lemon. It wasn't like in-your-face
Like offensive lemon if that makes sense and the blackberries in there, of course
And it just depends on if you like blackberry turps or not
Okay, which one of my crosses is the most homogenous with few phenos I would say banana Thai is probably the most homogenous
There are
different phenos in it, but most of them all kind of center around one general look that is the the
juicier fruit Thai mom and
see
Chunky monkey, which is probably because a deep chunk also very uniform
Bubbleberries been pretty uniform oddly enough, but but those two just combined so well to not to have too many freakin phenos in it
What else in the newest stuff the the white bonnet was very homogenous as well
Super-roqueo mentholated cherry go la. Yeah nasty Nate calls all the strange common names that are I have no idea who nasty Nate's
What's up, Tony do any work with Chris Ford no
How do you know when to harvest if you lost your scope
Where you just pick some dry it and figure out where you like to smoke it at
We yeah, we need that riot coin that right crypto, right?
I'm sure that'd do great. It's papaya. Just green crack. I doubt it
Those those dudes wouldn't have even had access to green crack so
Yeah, no, I'm gonna say no on that
Do you think you will create an heirloom strain, of course, it takes time
But do you have any faves you plan to FJ? Oh and to create an heirloom strain
I would have to get everyone across the country going at all at once and they all want cookies
So no, probably not but
as far as working lines
God, it's been years. It's been years. I don't I just just no place for it right now
There's no place for it. If if people would actually like
understand that that's a good thing to have worked lines and
want uniformity in their garden and
Uniformity for breeding and making seeds then. Yeah, we could go back to that. But there's there's just no
It's not financially viable in this in this community. Like nobody gives a fuck about that. They just want fucking wedding cake and
Whatever else it fucking people hype
Can you speak on mob or Jerry Berry, you know the mob cut going around it's just a mint of perps blueberry
I don't think it's anything special
so
But it does breed. Well, if you're making blueberry lines, I'll give it that
But as far as it being Jerry Berry, I doubt it the cut going around probably has nothing to do with the original mob cut
Can I talk about Uncle Fester why it's bullshit, it's not even a thing
Not not what's being passed as Uncle Fester skunk Uncle Fester is a solid fucking
Like drug chemist guy. He was pretty wild
He may have done breeding
I don't know but the person who was pushing Uncle Fester skunk had nothing to do with Uncle Fester didn't know Uncle Fester wasn't
even around for Uncle Fester
So I really think it was just taking his name and slapping it on something
Have you grown any of corral stuff from SSC not yet? Not yet. I'm waiting for some more outdoor
Space to be popping that long flower and shit
Does the blue bonnet to yield well and height and I said all of the blue bonnet stuff washes extremely
Well and and rosin we've been having really good results with everything. It's just the kind of the kind of
trichomes that the the male pushed and they and the amount of resin production that the male pushed into these lines is pretty fucking awesome and
It's perfect for it
Malibu pure kush had the cakey is turps. I've ever smelled you ever come across that
I've never come across a cut called Malibu pure kush
But I do remember real pure kush and so Cal pure kush that also people have called
She ignites pure kush which had nothing to do with it was a bubble hybrid and I've seen people call it Malibu pure kush and
Hollywood pure kush, but I only know one and that is the pure kush and I wouldn't say it was super cakey for me
But again, it depends on how you grow it how you grow
Determines the expression of whatever phenotype you're trying to pull
Some some cuts are more uniform like depending on your environment some cuts really do. Well, it's staying
Very uniform at how they express lots of others like UK cheese, for example can come out fucking
Looking like two different fucking in a whole different plants that you wouldn't believe were the same cut
What would you work if money was no issue good one, Shawnee. Um
Right now I go back to work the strawberry stuff I'd work it really heavy
Specifically the East Coast our diesel strawberry cream. I'd like to do some work with that and my strawberry switchblade
Probably do more with the banana tie to be honest with you, too
And if money was no issue some of the blue bonnet stuff
The banana headband I'd like to do more work with because there was some cool shit coming out of that
What else?
The great pie
Platinum banana OG made some beautiful stuff that's relevant or would do well in today's market
And it's worthy of being around and not just another fucking cookies hybrid
A sour apple planted banana. Oh gee also was pretty cool as far as being worked. I think that there's there's some cool shit in that
Is there anything new or is it all the same just I mean just look just look at what's around
Everything looks like fucking wedding cake or gelato
You know
You have the original blue badge you get it from archives
I
Mean it's a reason I'm laughing is because it's a very bold claim to say you have the original blueberry like cite your source
What's your provenance? What's you know, like DJ claims the same thing, you know as does fucking that other dildo
Who calls himself the original DJ short?
I'm a chiba like they all claim it a lot of people say they have the original blueberry
There is a cut from Oregon that is the Oregon blueberry that archive sells it came from Scott reach moonshine, man
Is it the original I don't fucking know about all that shit, but it wasn't the first one that people saw
But it's good. Supposedly. Did you pop any electric lemonade? My pack had some crazy tourists a couple of herds
Yeah, that's gonna be the problem with the lemon tree. It just is part of lemon tree
usually, they're very sterile so they don't cause a lot of problems, but
If you if you if you run lemon tree hybrids, you're just gonna end up getting hermes
It's just is what it is. Also if you want to
If you want to curb a lot of that and I always recommend this to people and it's I very early see see it taken
Seriously, but take clones from your seed moms and run the clones seed moms have a lot of hormones in them
And and taking clones of it and running that allows it to acclimate a little bit to your environment
There are many reasons that it is more advantageous to run clones as opposed to your seed mom
The the you lose a little bit of vigor because I mean seed moms are more vigorous than clones. However, the trade-offs are
tenfold
You know not everybody wants hype but not enough people want
Old work lines or any lines that aren't hype
To make it matter like a lot of people I get the people like it
but people don't spend the money that they don't have a they don't have a market share buying power, unfortunately and
if this is your career and livelihood and
Just got to go with the flow, unfortunately
That's why a lot of people are fucking retiring a lot of people from my area fucking retiring. Everybody's sick of that shit
Heart soil free pre BS. He was on to bro. So I never even heard of any of it never heard of any of them
What the fuck is even hyper all the brokers probably look like bunch of dudes sitting on their boards and wait list a open for
A new way to suddenly appear. Yeah, I mean
Gelato bullshit ring named. There you go
What's up old sog speaking old-school dudes and have your penis. Okay. I'll check my DM Sam
You got it. I'm a tray of rainbow belts. I
Think so. I think that's what Fletcher brought to the party a few years ago. It was good
Is
banana strains indica Dom
It depends on what you consider indica and steve
Those are kind of old terms that that a lot of us don't use anymore
But we kind of have to keep using because it's still common nomenclature
It depends on what it's crossed to obviously
But banana og tends to be the more narrow leaf
selections of og cush because of the 60-40 in it
And from an old man that has held on to the one plant since he started growing he's about 70 years old nice cool story
Bro, are you still cool with the BDSC guy? Fuck? No
The proof is in the play that that's that's the dumbest shit
I've ever heard the proof is not in the pudding that you have an original blueberry. That's the problem like this old man told me
Yeah, you know like I would love to believe that but that doesn't necessarily make it so you know what I mean like
You know
I'd love to believe it
But it's just with everybody talking and making up bullshit stories
It's just another story until you actually have proof, you know provenance is a serious thing. It's like saying oh, I got this original Picasso
Oh, yeah, where'd you get it from?
Well, some old man gave it to me. How do you know it's original cuz he said proofs in the pudding, you know
It's like what the fuck are you talking about?
Yeah
And I mean archive himself says that that
Blueberry cut is midsy booth. So don't expect a lot of dank from it, but it supposedly has good blue turds
DJ's flowers were wet basement trash. That's all
Blueberry has been from DJ for like fucking 10 years just garbage. What's up vessel? How you doing, brother?
How long is the perfect cure in your opinion?
it depends on the cut a
Lot of the strawberry cream cuts and and different phenos that came out of strawberry cream and the hybrids they would be
Better with less of a cure oddly enough. It just depends, you know
How do you feel about the next generation of growers and where the gene pool is headed?
I mean there are some next generations that are fucking dudes doing it, right, but
They're gonna get buried just like we were you know, so whatever
What's the heaviest daily smoke habit you've encountered? Oh god, who would I put that to?
My old friend noob noob 78 he would fucking he out chiefed everyone at
The first Colorado Cannabis Cup that dude could fucking puff
Like ridiculous where everybody else is like I mean and this is a room of heavy smokers all finally passed out
He's still me and him are out the last few
Oompa-Pas that way, too
Yeah, there's some this Duke and fucking chief what's the heaviest daily smoke?
Oh, okay. I did that one chocolate tie still around in seed form. Yes, and
Some people still use it draws chocolate tie. I mean, is that the original?
I don't know, but that's what's considered to be chocolate tie now in the past decade or so
If we're if all the old-school breeders retire
We're gonna end up with bullshit gelato cookies crap then support them because and I'm not even talking about me. I'm talking about
the best of the best like CSI
Archive Bodhi just go get it
even Jean, you know like
Jean's doing unique stuff. He's not just working with with hype garbage and
It's becoming more and more rare and that's gonna be gone soon
You know
Do you really hate gelato or just hate the hype it's it's I
Don't mind it, but I don't love it because of the high it just doesn't do anything for me
I've seen some crosses with it that are beautiful and smell really good like the gelato 33 gelato 45 even the 41
but at this point everything has been done and then some and now it's just constant cookie inbreeding and that's
gives a fuck
Let's see, I'm way way behind sorry guys
By proof is in the pudding like I'm a smoker and I could tell the difference just like you can't wait
you can tell the difference that it's an original blueberry or
I'm not trying to be a dick. But I mean, it's just
Bold claims require bold evidence, you know and anything we UFOs
Fucking how long your dick is, you know, it's just one of those things
Yeah, I mean I
Could smoke any number of things that someone hands me randomly and just I couldn't tell if it was the original cut
Especially with blueberry being that you know
It's just one of those things, dude
I'll tell the beat I did tell the BDSE story already
Because he was once a friend I don't like to get too far into it
Yeah, I just I felt very fucked over I handed them a company I gave them every single breeder that they had to start with
They went there because I was there and I was vouching for them and they fucked me. They fucked me over
That's the long and short of it, you know and they did dirty shit they did dirty shit that I had to keep looking past
constantly
Just as what it is, but
Constantly
Just as what it is people are fucking scumbags
If you oh you're hunting through snitch genetics UFO, that's cool. This gun gets bland with a long cure. Yes, I would agree
any thoughts on
rat snitch motherfucking dork sour diesel BX's
Yeah, someone else made him he had nothing to do with them and it's from swerve shit. So enjoy
That's all I got to say about that shit
Get corral back. I'd love to have corral back. I'd love to have him back on
So all you guys stoked about karma sour you do realize it comes out smelling like OG and
or just cardboard turps
Very very not sour, but it looks it looks like a super skunk, which is really cool
It just doesn't have any other stuff that goes with it and it's half swerves shit
So maybe just go buy swerve shit instead at least swerve isn't a snitch like karma
When are you making another Instagram for us? I do that's not me flan flanville
Social dot flanville calm is another option. We all need to start using
I'm waiting for him to get some life eat options so I can start utilizing it like I'd like to but yeah
That's that's another good option
Man yeah, it's bleak
Yeah, and and Joey I could agree with you on blueberry
There's a reason I love blueberry because if you find the fucking perfect Fino, that's super blue turps
Potent and frosty and all the dude there's nothing I like more than that. That's my favorite
He needs to be more selective what they smoke and yeah, I mean, but the community is very uneducated
You know and and not Mary not talking about you guys because like everybody that comes in here
More or less wants to learn like what's why things are the way they are
Why are seen as the way it is how it got to this point?
Like most people are interested in history and or genetics if they're here
But in generally generally speaking the guys that go into fucking cookies clubs to go buy their fucking weed that don't even grow
They're never gonna give a fuck about any of this and they drive the market. They are what drives the market
They're the ones going and buying the stuff that that that growers are offloading
They're the majority buyers and I'm not talking black market
I'm talking white market because the black markets getting fucking school washed right now by corporate assholes
Do you know what blue dragon is
No
What do you think about jinx proofs line ever any and I have not run it jinx proofs is super super nice, dude
He's been around a while
He's one of the most like
Cheery inspiring guys. I've ever seen I couldn't say a bad word about that, dude. Have you're starting projects with the NL?
Yes, me and CSI are working on those
We're actually doing selections and taking time with it
Unlike the other person who's been selling them like from the jump popped a few seeds of fucking crossed him and was like
Hey, I got you know five its original
No, what you got is fucking two phenos that you hit together you fucking schmuck, but we're gonna do it, right?
It's also gonna be available for free for veterans and and that is a promise on that one
We're also doing the Hawaiian lights which is the BX to the Hawaiian inside and all five
So instead of being like mostly nl5 dominant, this is gonna be mostly Hawaiian dominant in the nl5
So we're running through those pop all the seeds that we're gonna go through all of them
Why does skunk be a because I don't tell people who to fuck with and who not to fuck with like when that went down
I didn't I didn't message any of my friends to be like, hey, you know what they did to me now bad
They fucked me over. I don't do that shit, you know
I'm not looking to sink people's businesses and and frankly, they just fucked me over. They weren't fucking other people over
So I couldn't say that they were gonna fuck him over I don't know that they weren't fucking anyone over it's just me
Cuz I was the one dumb enough to hand him a fucking business, you know, that's the way it goes
Are you a first UFO question from my boy? Are you a pho is real?
Something is flying. I don't know if it's aliens or not, but something's out there
I'm sure a lot of it is US drone tech Chinese drone tech Russian drone tech
Drones have been around since World War one and a lot of people don't know that
Why do you always seem to be the one on the short side of the stick but everyone seems to have the problem with
You it's because I I've been
Stupid I've been stupid at who I brought into our friend crew and I for every person I brought into our friend crew
There's been one
I've had to throw out of the friend crew for fucking over the friend crew and
It just is what it is. Not a lot of people call people out when they fuck them over
I just don't give a fuck. I'm not very edited if you haven't noticed. It's just one of those things
I've made a lot of bad decisions, but
It's what it is. You can't trust people in the fucking weed industry. Very few very very few a
Lot of the friends that I've had in this community I've had for many many years over a decade
There's also been a lot that we've lost, you know just is what it is
Who are some new guests coming not so still coasting not just uh, not so supposed to be doing a solo shit
But he hasn't recorded anything yet. So I don't know if he's gonna participate this season or not
I'm not sure on the co-hosting spot yet what's going on or how it's gonna continue
I'm doing some stuff with Shawnee kids on the Canadian stuff. But as far as the main
Main spot. I'm not sure how it's gonna go yet. We're still trying to figure everything out
Jim or take it would be dope to talk to you, but he doesn't really seem to
Do that swerve and skunk VA work together. No, I don't think so. I don't want to speak for him. I don't think so
Yeah, you know and that's the thing like some of the old schoolers likes were
Swerve has been very duplicitous and a piece of shit to me specifically, but I don't blame my friends that are friends with them
You know, like I don't give him shit for being friends of that dude. Like he's been nice to
Cedarberry Cedarberry flipped out on me for being mean to swerve. It just is one of those things, you know
Hi, I love some when will we see more happy work? Me and high loads have been supposed to do more happy work
I hope if I don't get to it soon that he does because that's probably one of the best
short flowering
Sativa type lines there is
I think it could easily replace blue dream or any of that because of its potency its look it's yield its unique turps
It's it's one. It's one cups under other names
a
Lot of people associated with Bodhi because Bodhi did a whole long list of lines with it
But that is my boy. Hi, I lonesome. So yeah
I was gonna hit the archive blueberry with with the bonnet to see what would happen, but it did the cut didn't live
Your latest stream was cracked Eddie. I remember my buddy HPK had a string called crack daddy used our green crack work in it
Yeah
Let's see
Yeah, hi Elizabeth says I'm not much of a breeder dude, but he's like one of the few actual breeders there have ever been
Yeah, whatever whatever dude oh
Did he sell all the happy stuff he wasn't supposed to sell yeah, yeah to current says a piece of shit he's gonna
I'm gonna leave it at that that dudes that dude you don't you don't you don't call my friends liars that are fucking
Especially not one of the most honest dudes. I know you just don't do that. Don't do that
uh a
little fucking maggot
anyway
How do we get in the crew
How do we get in the crew?
Mmm, I don't know. We all kind of stumbled into our crew. It's just we all kind of found each other
When your podcast that the Hayes brothers Cush has some wine in it, nope, I don't know what's in the Hayes brothers Cush
Nobody does nobody has any clue. Nobody has any clue. I would say probably Hindu Cush based, but I'm not sure
It's very early on in the 80s or yeah 80s
How much variation would I find if I s1 to BX F
2 it depends on how much work was put into the initial line
It could be
Someone that did a back cross of an f2 that has no idea about selection
And if you s1 that you may open the line
I mean, it's just you're gonna have less phenos than in the initial BX 1 s2 if you just s1 it
However, if the line is very open, you're just gonna have an open line if that makes sense for you
What would you say is the biggest smoking gun when it comes to UFOs?
There's a few cases
The Tenerife Island Canary Islands one is very interesting. There's one picture if I'm correct
I think I'm correct on it one or two of
What was happening? There were so many witnesses and it was such a
Extreme event that it's really hard to shut off
There is the aerial school incident, which I mean it's kids that witnessed it, but it was a lot of kids
There were a lot of different descriptions
But overall it's very it's a very interesting thing
It I don't really believe in mass hallucinations like that unless people are dosed
That's another good one
our buddy Alex Dietrich the the fighter pilot in
That had to do with the Nimitz incident
She's a she is actually trained in cognitive bias, which is one of the reasons that I really really
Respect her opinion on what she saw in that
That's a trippy one, but you know
Some people are very insistent that the Nimitz was was not what we thought it was
But she had eyes on it, you know as a fighter pilot
One of the best fighter pilots. That's something that's saying something
Blueberry blast ever tried it. I
Had a lot of friends it did I'd rather run blue dream. There's no reason to run that shit
16 years since I first found you at night times. Yeah
Yeah before I was blocked
Before I was booted. Have you ever had the chance to do any blue moonshine? Yes. I have some for sale right now
the blue baby shit v2 is a
Blue moonshine cross. It's blue moonshine blue bonnet blue moonshine being some of DJ's work and having some of those muddy butthole turps
Pre 9 maybe guy was referring to that pre 98 blueberry Pacific Northwest took to the facility
Pre 98 blueberry, I think I don't even know what that means. I remember JD short little dick short
Telling everyone that his daddy made up the term pre 98, but his daddy did not make up the term pretty 98. Yeah
How do I feel about rare dickless from Colorado, I mean the dudes been around a long time
I just had no respect for him because he was an asshole. That was that
Seven minutes in the closet
Yeah selections matter very heavily and I can give an example actually from my boy bitter
The p91 s ones they were very variant
They all kind of circled around that peanut oil turp
But there were ones that had low resin production and high resin production in just one generation
Bitter was able to make the p91 s twos actually f2 ours because it was wasn't necessarily a self selection
But by doing that selection he was able to make it way more resinous way more resinous in any an increased how awesome that line
was tenfold, so
Yeah, that's that's a perfect example of why selections matter. It's it's
It's the difference between playing and doing and knowing what you're doing
Yeah to currents is a little fucking new poser who?
Took a bunch of testers and made a bunch of promises. He wasn't gonna use shit and then fucking used it and sold it
He's just a little fucking coward who just started growing and
Immediately started selling seeds. So if y'all fuck with them, you've probably been growing longer than him
La lights 1960s, I believe over 30,000 people saw you for no shit. I'm not familiar with that one
there was the
Battle of Los Angeles, but I don't believe there were a lot of witnesses to stuff
but they were firing a lot of ammunition in the air people died from it a
a
UFO response vehicle what max I want pictures of this shit
What traits do you focus on when pheno hunting a male I don't always look for the same traits
It just depends on what I'm trying to breed or what I'm trying to make at that specific point
It's always variable
Muddy butthole turps. Yeah blue moonshine was the first thing I smoked I got out of jail
No anxiety and for some people blueberry very anxious, but for me it is the most anti anxiety stuff I can smoke
Blueberry haze blueberry haze. I mean, that's where blue dream came from blueberry super silver. Haze good shit
Two cowards is a great name. I like that name
Yeah, I mean that's that's what most people do just hit the first pheno you find
With males now, here's here's something here's something that a lot of people don't understand
When you're selecting a male there is no real criteria that works for all males when
When making hybrids it should be common sense, but it's not and it wasn't to me when I first started
I always use the criteria that oh, I like to and this is what I was taught by by James Hawk was that
You look for the male. That's most like the female you want to hit
Now does that mean structure a little bit like tighter node spacing?
Not the first flowering all these different ideas that people put in your head over the years of what's truth and what's not
But when it comes down to it, you don't know how a male
Even works or breeds until you've run the seeds that that result from it if you don't know
How that male breeds?
Then how do you even know if it's a good male?
Then how do you even know if it's a good male so all these dudes just fucking smacking males fucking one boom
No testing throw it out there. Yeah, this shit's dick. How the fuck do you know?
You don't you know how it breeds you don't even know if that was the best breeding mill on the fucking shit
so
You know, you guys got to keep that in mind when buying seeds
Jonathan Reed
Are you talking about the Reed family in
Massachusetts is that you're referring to KB
Breeding opposite so it's easier to separate that also is a legit way to do it
If like if you if you want to to search through a line you want to see how a line breeds
sometimes using a known male and
Crossing it to something completely opposite or even just a known male like you already know how male breeds and you want to see
How a female breeds use that known male because you already know how it breeds to most stuff and you can read it
Dude from Seattle. I'll have to look that one up. I don't know why I'm not familiar with that one
Do you suggest taking clones for males? Also, I do I always take gloves of my males
I mean the blue bonnet male still alive. Oh
Yeah, JD JD sure I will say
Conclusively is one of the biggest twats in our industry
Dude doesn't know shit about breeding and he makes that obvious every time he fucking opens his mouth
He was very fortunate that his dad made beautiful stuff
He was very fortunate that his dad made beautiful stuff so some of this stuff takes beautiful pictures
He has made stuff that could be considered good because his daddy did the work
His daddy did the work in a fucking tent with a one-lighter
popping one seed all and
So here's another here's another thing about blueberry that makes it very unique now when breeding most people breed towards certain traits
Most people would never take two opposite things
Cross them
Go through the next generation take two opposite things cross them go to the next generation
Take two opposite things cross them because you're just playing you're not you're not you're not breeding in any direction. It is all experimentation and
What can come from that could be good, but that's not that's playing that's fucking playing and that's what DJ did
In a one lighter in a closet his whole career until he got to Switzerland, of course and other people did the work there
So and I hate I you know, like I respected DJ for so long until I talked to DJ
Until I talked to Jay DJ
I met DJ and got to ask DJ some questions
And I suggest all of you if you ever get the chance
Even if it's just writing a breeder and seeing what the response is to breeding questions
No, no the answer before you message them that always helps because otherwise they're just gonna shit in your ear and you're gonna believe it
So know the answer but ask readers some questions hit them up. See how they respond to you
Do they respond do they give a fuck about breeding?
They give a fuck to answer your questions or they just want your money, you know
Ask them ask them
Here's here's a perfect question to ask any breeder and this will tell you everything you need to know about them
Everything ask them. Hey, what from what from your line is
the best for my
Z like meaning my arthritis for my fucking hemorrhoids for my my gut problems my fucking
My schizophrenia ask him whatever whatever
If they answer and they give you a line, they are just trying to sell you shit
They are just trying to sell you shit because there's no breeder on earth none
No breeder on earth that could ever tell you what a specific pheno that the
Unpredictable specific pheno coming from a seed pop is ever gonna do to affect your individual brain chemistry. Nobody can answer that
Nobody can and if they do they don't know what the fuck they're talking about
Or they're lying to you and just trying to sell you seeds. So yeah, that's that's the one question
Everybody should be asking every breeder
What's the best for my arthritis? What's the best strain from you for my arthritis?
And why why is that the best strain for my arthritis?
Yeah, JD's guys can suck a dick I was really nice to that dude even when I
Know you didn't district. What's up? I dude. Nobody's asking much you up of questions only a few but
Yeah, I was gonna say something about JD but he's worthless to talk about so it doesn't really fucking matter
I I was kicking him lots of props during the blue bonnet thing because I felt bad because
Supposedly came from his dad and here I am making one of the
The best blueberry work on earth because of Lone Star not because of me not because of me
But it is some of the best blueberry work on earth that was ever done
And I knew it was gonna take away from some of his money pool. So I constantly plug JD
I'd repost a shit. What does he do fucking throw shade at me calls me all kinds of fucking names
So I just I'm not gonna be nice anymore
Not gonna be nice. They can go fuck themselves
Not gonna be nice they can go fuck themselves
UFO Zola our X is my favorite UFO band. So what X was the shit?
It's probably too far back for me to scroll and show you what Zola Rex looks like but they were the shit
Let's see
Did I save any Zola Rex pictures?
For people that have been asking about Darby and what's what's become of him? There's Darby right? This is a few days ago
My best blueberry work it's just it depends but it's gonna be from the blue bonnet stuff by far what?
Thanks heart division, yeah, um, I don't know about me but he yeah inspected does good stuff
Do you know how to make do you still I never made rainbow SS OG?
That was my boy smell boat, and I don't know what he's doing with it. Currently. I know people enjoyed it
Quite a bit. I enjoyed smoking it but it's very OG KB dominant
Who's the biggest UFO charlatans in the scene right now in my opinion? Oh, here we go Dolan
Hush woman right to beat you and put you in your cage
Dolan is
Definitely up there. I mean David Wilcock anyone on Gaia anyone a guy Stephen Greer Stephen fucking Greer
That guy's a joke Billy Meyer for some reason is still around and that's sensitive subject for some
I I was tricked by Billy Meyer when I was a little kid, but
Yeah, Michael Horn who represents Billy Meyer
Dude it's endless Lou Elizondo. I'm gonna say fucking Lou Elizondo. That guy's a
Intelligence like counterintelligence expert and people jump on his dick like fucking Richard Doty
Yeah, Greer I'd say Greer is at the top of the charlatan parade
Mr. Ce5
Hell yeah Midwest that's that's one of the better lines
Like if people want something that will sell at collectives the GMO blue bonnet's an excellent one
Did you tell to wait in the truck now I didn't tell to wait in the truck
I thought I'm gonna put her in her cage
Because that's how we do here
Ain't that right, babe?
She didn't answer so I can talk more shit she ain't around
Wilcox yeah, David Wilcox a fucking idiot. He's that he was the one who was saying he
Was Edgar Cayce's reincarnation, which was silly, but what you know, have you running a white Buffalo?
I haven't run into the gear, but I do know the white Buffalo guys
And if you're gonna get anything from Canada, I highly recommend them
Current guess on whether we've had non-human intelligence or craft visiting pester. So most of what I've studied my whole
Existence knowing about UFOs is UFO crash retrievals and UFO crashes
At the end
I shouldn't say at the end but where I'm currently at after years and years and years and years of that
I don't know. I don't know. I don't know if we have anything. I don't even know if we have meta materials
I don't know if we have anything from any crash
There's so much cloudy misinformation put out by a select group of individuals and the same individual that's been involved with it
Since the 60s via IEEE and SRI how put off
He's magically been in the middle of every single
UFO anything any you any bad UFO event someone from house crews been a part of
Including Dodi who is a part of house crew and the aviary which is another topic for another day, but
Yeah, I don't know I haven't seen proof for it I haven't seen proof for any crashes any of that
A lot of people would turn to Lazar and he's a fucking unfortunately I as much as I used to believe Lazar
I've seen enough evidence now to know that he is he's at least very dishonest
Wilson Davis memos I kind of go with Greenwald on this one Greenwald shout out to Greenwald. That's one of my boys
from the black vault
He's done a great dissection of the Wilson Davis memos. He's done a great dissection on the
the document NRO document
It was proven to be fake and in my opinion it's been proven to be fake I've seen enough
Proof that it was a fake to document and that's what all the Wilson Davis memo stuff is based on
So if that's fake then you know, the patreon is still going on
Patreon is definitely still going on breeders syndicate patreon join our discord. I think tomorrow's the fights
You know, I mean, you know what I'm saying? So I'll be watching the fights
Yep, I'll be watching the fights
So i'll be watching the fights, uh, yep, uh, so join our discord if you're into any of that kind of stuff, um,
Yeah, we have a ufo section on the discord too. I haven't really been using it lately because i've been doing that elsewhere
but um, yeah, uh, I intend to use it utilize it more often so
Join the discord. It's we have a lot of fun there
Um people talk directly to me not so and all kinds of other folks
Best strawberry work i've ever seen was from cedarberry farm strawberry cream, which was a
uh a
worked version of strawberry cough
Russia has crashed they might have crashed ufo's they might but
Russia was so locked down and so hard to get info out of I do have books on specifically on russian stuff
Um jacques valet i'm reading one by jacques valet again on um his russian stuff jacques valet
Uh, if you haven't read any jacques valet stuff, he's a very fascinating brain and mind in the ufo field
Um, do I have any right here? I didn't bring any with me over here
Uh, I read like five or six books at a time because I have adhd and I have to do stuff like that
This is another one. I'm revisiting john alexander another aviary member
Um ufo's missed conspiracies and realities. It's very good. Um
He's been he's been deep in that that hell put off crew for a long time too
so
He has very good insights to stuff
There's also some other books that a lot of people don't look at very often, but should be
Uh talked about in like the william corliss stuff. Um
This one he did a lot of stuff on the mysterious universe like so basically any anomalies whether it's human ancient
uh
Astronomical light anomalies. So yeah, I highly recommend that stuff, too
What region did your afghani heirloom come from? I don't know that came from a dude named bite me that was on the mr
Nice forums and i'm guessing it's probably just a super skunk hybrid of some sort. So it's probably not a land race
Um, but it would be an heirloom because it was from the early 90s. It would be considered an heirloom
Let's see
If you're not non-human, do you think the smoke is black tech or have we haven't we seen thoughts on tic-tac?
So one of my one of my buddies was one of the people who put eyes on tic-tac
I
I can't discount her. I can't discount her opinion on what she saw at all
I do think a lot of these anomalies are drone tech our own or otherwise
But I I don't know on that specific one
Have you smoked the strawberry banana for what?
What?
Strawberry been what were you see me smoking some dna shit. Come on now. Come on now
Yeah, my I have hardcore adhd it sucks
Abusive sent kksc to replace a bunk blowfish back around 2006 tastes like strawberry cream saver. That's yeah
Yeah, dude, you can find that from kksc stuff
Gave my grandma havana syndrome and running the microwave all night heating up hot pockets. I've been looking into the havana syndrome
It's very interesting. There's some some great old work. Um, there's a book called project camellio not chameleon, but camellio
um
It's it's it's pretty fascinating and and it might have something to do with the havana syndrome
It's more about us using the tech on civilians than anything
uh, abc blue bonnet, um
I will say I will say I will give a hint
Expect some mutant stuff to be coming out in a collaboration soon
Ever grow lebanese hash plant, uh, I had a lebanese lebanese kush that I grew that came from a collective
It was a long gorilla arm type narrow leaf dominant plant
But it finished in seven weeks and smoked super cushy. It was the fucking weirdest shit super red hairs
I don't know if it was pure lebanese
I don't even know if it was lebanese to be honest with you, but it did fit a lot of those. Um,
a lot of the the classifications that
A lot of the the classifications that that lebanese would
Tic tac going in and out of the water is crazy. Yeah, the uh aguadilla puerto rico. Yeah, it's a good one
Any backgrounds on caleb's chem one or the haze? He's crossed his stuff too. So the chem one came from um,
Uh joe brand's pop it is the original chem dog. Number one the same pop that chem number four came from
It is very very nl5 haze dominant
Um much more so than the chem four. In fact, I don't get a lot of chem turps from it
It's a heavy murcine and it's a five percent terpene content type plant. So I highly recommend it in that sense
How do you keep males in your bedroom pluck the nuts I uh, my bedroom is always at 24 hours so I don't really have
Nut problems. The only time I ever see that is when I don't repot quick enough with males males
Will almost always start throwing nuts if they are feeling root restricted
What can you offer for that cush type squat and crown tops
the beloved cush
I have um pea berry, which was the katsu bubba blue bonnet
But yeah, like uh the white blue bonnet the white bonnet has has tops like that. Very cushy. Um
What other kind of cushy cushy stuff the louie has some females like that the louie louie, uh bonnet
Aren't okay blue garig. I think we called it. Um, let's see the great pie
uh
The great pie banana og has some beautiful tops like that. The chunky monkey had some beautiful tops like that
Banana headband had some beautiful tops like that, too. Um, yeah, that's that's off it up my head
Thoughts of pg and e being responsible for huge wildfires year after year
Yeah
A lot of my family worked for pg and e growing up. So I have very weird
Feelings i mean pg and e's fucked me in the ass, you know, so I don't I don't know fuck them
Are you are your abc's caleb's site for?
Huh
I don't have abc's
Not right now not writing currently and I haven't released any but expect some soon
Did I said don't fuck with my pension
Yeah, chunky monkey was a good one you did good good grows on that shit
You you ever get your original right berry cut back. I don't know anybody who has it. I don't never seen it again. So no
As as tragic as that is that died with mooney, uh, where can I see pictures of blubba kush instagram
but the problem is
A lot of my hashtags have been fucking snuffed. So it's a little hard to search but it's out there
There's there's plenty of pictures of it out there. Do you think lala is gonna smoke diaz?
There's no nobody could convince me
Otherwise unless it just happens like or if he catches lollary and a fucking submission which is possible
but diaz is fucking
It would be very hard to see diaz winning that fight, you know
uh
Yeah
I'll be showing up
Needing to to bump up a weight class so he doesn't have to take a pay cut all that shit
That's some fucking shenanigans right there
That's some shenanigans
Fucking most people would have to take a fucking pay cut not diaz. Nope. They're gonna move the fucking weight class and robbie's just a badass
Filled I feel I feel bad for him that he keeps bad people around him that that
Let him stay in that fucking horrible headspace that he's in
I do feel bad for diaz on that
Let's see where we at
So we're over an hour in um
So
I gotta mention what's okay
So if if you're part of the patreon there's a backstage part of the site where you have access to stuff for sale that no one
Else does yet you always get first shot at some stuff and the rare stuff and the stuff
There's only a few packs left of things like that right now in the backstage. There is the um
The chemsis s1
Cross the blue bonnet, which is the dead ringer. We called it. Um
Or the person who had the cut forever and tried to push it as chem d called it
But it was the chemsis s1. We have cokehead slut in the back
Uh, we have the blue baby shit 2.0 that I mentioned earlier in the back
Which is the blue moonshine cross and the unicorn skittles, which is a collab between me and vody
So that's in the backstage right now to be bought but you can only get there if you have patreon
If you don't then you have to wait if I don't know how long or when they're going to go up front
But they will be eventually up front
Have any strains being released that dump in hash the whole bonnet line was made to be a hash dumper. Um
I mean pretty much anyone who's who's working lines now breeds for hash
Because it's just such a major part of everything
Some of my recommendations on strains that dump hash
Well, it's just I would first ask what what are some of your favorite strains to smoke that you like?
Um that you like to wash and then I would pick one
based on that
Because there's so many different ones
I mean we've been breeding for for hash strains long before bonnet, but um, I think bonnets been the most consistently awesome for washing
I mean the gmo bonnet would be a quick pick. That's obvious. Um, the bubble berry has been fucking awesome for washing. Um,
The white bonnet, of course, um
Do do do do do do
The trademark chad's been fucking surprisingly awesome, but that's because it has a lot of terpeneline qualities to it
Auction yeah, my last auctions didn't go so smooth. So yeah
What would you think jj is gonna stop back crossing the diesel to f3 it would that be the benefits of that be?
I don't I don't I don't I mean i've never asked him why he's done the back crosses
He's done or what? What was his purpose or what? He was breeding direction was you guys would have to ask him
Uh sunshine daydream just one germ one out of one from a 13 pack. I'm so excited. Well good. I'm glad you're excited
Cherry bear. Yeah, cherry bear is an awesome fucking washer that cherry 8k period was a fucking awesome washer
Do you have any strains available with menthol terps? I would most people when they say menthol are referring to terpeneline
Um, the trademark chad has that in spades. You just have to pop some
Um
Let's see
What else would have that
the super
dominant, oh
Uh, we have some what was that called?
electric feel blue bonnet
that had
It looked like ogkb, but it was but it smelled like a fucking menthol cigarette, you know, like
The filter of a menthol cigarette which is mostly turbidly
Trademark chad was the gerbent loop on it. Yes, sir
What are terps on bonnet like blueberry berry as fuck
Um, there's blueberry candy blueberry muffins all throughout how it breeds depends on what you cross it to etc
but yeah
It's the most heavy dominant blueberry breeding line i've ever seen
How ogkb dom is boysenberry very og ogkb tends to dominate almost any cross it's in and it
um
That mutation is very very heavy breeding
Um true breeding heavy breeding we're talking about
Got to smoke your bloopers headband grown by a garden in australia i'm glad someone's tearing it up over there with that
That's fucking awesome. There's been some beautiful beautiful beautiful pictures coming out of the bloopers headband
Favorite liner cut from bode that you've tried got quite a collection from him
My favorite
Bodie one of all time was I think one of the first lines I ever ran from him and he's got so many amazing ones
The afgui double purple doja still stands at the top of my favorite from him
I doubt anybody has any seeds of it. He might I doubt it. I mean, it's so old
But he's kept he's been good about keeping his stuff
um
Yeah, I loved that line. That was I love the smell of afgui
It's like blueberry melon turps and with the yield of the double purple doja and some of the purple color. It was just fucking bomb
Yeah, you know what the land race durban's gonna definitely dominate the ogkb land races and and things like durban tend to dominate
So in that case, yeah, I could see that not having a single ogkb type plant
Midnight he had a string called midnight cowboy minnow perps and wookiee. I love that movie and song the theme song from it
Was one of the first songs I think actually
My band the kill we used to play that song in the middle of it
Any idea the lineage of mass super skunk?
Uh depends on which one, uh, first one. I couldn't tell you
Second one is super skunk
Just super skunk would anybody accept a sunshine daydream male or female for breeding hit me up. I have one going doja from
I don't know what melvin is
What strange would you give
Say give you the red eye shotgun hitting type smoke. Like I said, dude, everybody
Everybody's brain chemistry is different. I couldn't tell you what would hit you like that
um headband tends to hit a lot of people like that so the banana headband would be a great one if if
If og types tend to hit you like that
Oh, yeah, um
I think I think we have the a few packs left of the the blackberry cream
um
Blackberry cream banana og which normally blackberry cushy, you know, but it did well with the banana og. It's beautiful beautiful plant
um
Excellent breeder for for purples too. We have some of those up on the site too
and uh
The sour apple plant and banana og we let some of those out as well
Yeah
Yeah, landrace derivants are going to be heavy heavy dominant
It's just one of those things terpenelein breeds dominant
Popping the pale strangler soon. It's pale strangler
What?
I can't see that far
I don't worry about it
I don't care if it bothers you. I like it
The hey, are you guys bothered by this? Does this bother you guys? Can you even hear it when I do this?
Please about that. No one no one said a word
Offering from mel. Oh, you mean mel van that old fucking raggedy old bitch
That's another person like two currents fucking after her first grow of six months first grow she made seeds and fucking started selling them
Madam mim. Yeah, that bitch looks like madam mim. Um
Yeah, I have nothing good to say about that woman. I I
Advocate for women in cannabis because there's so it is a very testosterone dominant thing, but I don't advocate for idiots in cannabis
Yeah, she's from ohio but nobody in ohio has ever fucking heard of her odd
But she's this legit old fucking breeder bullshit
I remember when she showed up on c-depot and she's fucking damn lucky c-depot forums down or I would make a fucking
joke out of her ass quick
quick like
Got some seeds from my boy bode and fucking
Immediately immediately make seeds on her first grow and sells them
Yeah, buckeye purple is mega boof the I can't even explain to people how boof it is how
Crazily boof it is and nobody listened to me
Nobody listened to me on that everybody wanted to fucking
Get their hands on that shit like it was something new even though you could get any blackberry or any mendo perps hybrid
It would look like that and be better
But you know, it is what it is
People people are at all different points of their cannabis learning experience
Could the fellowship have taken the eagles halfway to mordor
I don't I don't know. I'm not a lord of the rings guy
I also don't like star wars and I don't like star trek. So
I know people gonna cancel me for that one. I just don't I never got it
I mean, I like the first star wars when I was little I liked I liked ewoks, which is not very popular
But I was a kid, so that's not it
What did you have a kindred spirit with the ewoks
Talking shit over there
Flanville's gonna unsub it. You don't talk shit about the wars
or the trek
What about the avengers? I mean, I liked comic books
Um when I was little I just never really cared much about it after
But I do like ufo so i'm still a fucking dork don't worry don't worry
No, i'm not watching aw I like a lot of old wrestling and um, like 80s 70s early early 90s
I haven't paid much attention to aw but I do think it's good that it's shaking shit up
Do you ever see the ewok movie?
No, I did see brin just said the same thing that I look like an ewok. So
She called me a kindred spirit to a fucking ewok
Cute short and fuzzy. Yeah
Uh
No, I haven't checked out you walk stuff I mean
I eventually will go back and watch star wars. Maybe
I just had friends that were such like extreme star wars dorks that I was like, fuck you
I'm, never watching that and yeah, I do watch the dark side of the ring though
I do I do like those vice documentaries on wrestling. There have been some great ones
Talking about a lot of the stuff that that hasn't really been talked about much outside of books. I think that's pretty cool
and podcasts obviously talk about some of like the bruiser brody stuff and
Shoot interviews and shit. But yeah dark side of the ring has been good
X-files best show ever maybe one of the best I will agree with that. I'm a major x-files nerd
I still have the original x-files box set from the very when they finished the very last season
Right there in front of me and i'll never get rid of it even though it's dvds
What's your take on bill cooper? He exposed a lot of these ufo researchers long ago bill cooper was busy selling out the ufo community
While doing that he was working closely with doty and other uh, intelligence fools
Selling out people in the community in trade for getting real info, which he got none of
He's a very controversial polarizing type character in the ufo community
However, I think he's been gone long enough. That would be very interesting to talk to him now
I would love to talk to bill more now and see where his head's at with everything after having
You know a good 20 years out of the community to sit and ponder on how everything went down
Can you shed light on informants in the industry
Well, I mean
I don't know who's actual informants. I know there have been people that put down paperwork threatening to inform
um
I've talked about them a lot since I was involved in some of that
but um
actual informants
Nobody knows who they'd be or they wouldn't be breathing
It just is what it is. It might sound basic. But over time some of my favorite strains for that crazy like daisy high was bubba
Uh, I don't know special cuts some old heads grew back east gg4 grease monkey headband. I don't know what grease monkey is
um, that sounds like some new dog seed shit, but um
gg4 headband, it sounds like you like uh, chemeo g type stuff
But
Do I believe big lazar bob lazar I do not
I do not i've seen enough stuff now to not believe bob lazar
It does break my heart because he was one of my favorite
people to listen to and ponder on when I was a young kid up until I was an adult
and there's been enough stuff put out ever since jeremy corbell started sniffing up his asshole that
Pretty sure he hoaxed pretty sure he hoaxed
Oh
You know, I mean
Yeah, I could talk about
You know when you're talking about informative, of course, everybody's gonna bring up rez dog
um
I'm waiting for someone to put out some the full info on that before I can speak on it
What the fuck is a tina prostitute? What the fuck is a tina exotic bike that doesn't even make seeds anymore
That motherfucker has been white labeling for I don't know how long in fact
He he got rid of his best friend who would not white label for him who would not sell him white label seeds
so
Good luck with all that. He's not even working shit. That dude doesn't even
that dude
That dude I could go on forever
um
Cornell believed him corbell does believe bob lazar and corbell is a fucking shill
corbell was a part of a
Deathbed cia interview confession that was proven to be 100 false and he still
Still lies about it to this day. He gets called out about it daily daily and still will not fucking budge
Um, he said that he has the dd-214 to prove that this guy was in the cia
He gave a fake name for the dude originally, which I mean some people like to hide their identities
But they were doing a cia deathbed confession and it's all real. Um
I
The guy's real name was dick p man. Love i'm not even fucking kidding the dude's name is dick p man
Love just go go look up go online and look up dick p man. Love you'll see
a
Obituary for him. That is the fake cia confession guy. The guy never worked for the cia
He was a grocery checkout dude and um, richard dolan jeremy corbell linda molten
How i'll vouch for that dude and they won't take it back
What's the scoop on big stimmy dropping new cases of c I don't what's that
Uh
Dominion packs are hard to get now get the fuck out of here. Yeah. Oh shit some skunk one packs
Fuck out of here with that
Motherfucker didn't even make those seeds his girl ex-girlfriend made those seeds
I bet you didn't know that shit
Why do you think lazar lied he gained nothing he gained a lot he gained a lot financially and they've presented it as if he's gained
nothing
um
Testers corporation played paid him big he had he's he's licensed his movie deal twice and made millions on that
Um, he's sold
countless merchandise from his own store that he makes money off of um, he's
Corbell says he didn't make any money off the documentary
But corbell made a shitload of money off that and you bet you bet you bet bob made that money
Now one thing a lot of people don't know and this is public public now and you can see it
After after bob lazar got kind of shaken up by his whole fucking ufo fraud shit
He started running a whorehouse with him at him, which
I ain't judging. I ain't fucking judging on
you know
Whatever, but the thing I would judge on is the fact that he got caught installing fucking video cameras in the room to blackmail
the johns, so
The type of person that would do stuff like that
Come on and no it didn't he didn't he made that money back in the 90s with the testers corporate or uh
early 2000s
Late 90s with the testers corporation, uh, the movie license deals. Those are very early on that is nothing recent. Um
It is a long fucking con job long ass con job
And he's a great liar. I'm not gonna lie dude, but bob lazar is a great liar. He sold me for a long time
Between cia and the hippie mafia
Um, there's a book out called chaos. That's about charles manson and the fk ultra program. It's really fascinating
really fascinating
What is my favorite bubba cut that's still possible that is possible to get still uh bubba
That's my favorite public cut bubba. Um
Bubba
He is very believable. I agree. He had me sold for until the last year and a half or so
That's when I started really and the reason I didn't like looking into bob lazar
I did not want to find out he was a liar. I did not want to find out that motherfucker lied
um
I had believed him since I was in my teens early teens
So when I found out he was a liar
When I started looking into it, I was looking into it to prove he wasn't a liar
And he was a fucking liar. That's all I just do it
He is light about so many things that have to do with that case
Um, and we know that there was someone that worked
At and actually let me let me bring it back. He is not lying about working at area 51
He is lying about working at s4. He is lying about that part. He fixed the the radiation badge detectors
And would scan them at area 51
That's what we know. He actually did there. He did not do any reverse engineering. No propulsion. Nothing like that
Yeah, it was heartbreaking to learn that about him it really was I mean I I i'm very passionate about ufo stuff so
But like you have seeds of bubba everyone. Yes. I did a um a bubba kush bx1 that I sold for a long time
Um, I used the heirloom afghani to bx to it
um
The blubba kush which is the blue bonnet bubba kush still is super super super cushy
There are some berry turps in it, but for the most part bubba dominates and those are available, too
Any g the g13 has been dead forever, um
Airborne g13 which is g13 nl2 very hard to find a lot of people have lied about using it
um, but
Yeah
It is what it is
What else you guys got are we dying down 86 minutes in I thought this was gonna be a short one
I drank coffee. So i'd have some energies
AK47 worth growing. Yeah, if it's real ak47, I would say so i've i've seen some beautiful ak phenos and great breeding ones
Bubba is bomb. I love bubba bubba is one of those desert island strains if I had to choose five
For if I had five to choose bubble would be in there
Bob's ufo hookers
vision
What's up, brother?
How is heirloom different than landrace genetics landrace implies that it has not been worked by man heirloom implies that it's been worked by man
But you know, it's been around long enough to be considered an heirloom
But landrace is is
In nature where it is grown, you know, like where it naturally forms
So there's not such there's no such thing as a north american landrace
No such thing as a south american landrace, but there are heirloom lines from south america
There are heirloom hemp lines in the u.s
And I think it's been long enough to call certain lines like super skunk that have been here since 1990
That's a long time now it's like
That's a long time now it's like 30 years I think that is earned heirloom status but uh landrace is a is a whole different
term
Yeah, the bubble cut that we had in san diego is fucking fire that's the one that we always call pre-98
um
I'm, not sure if that is the same cut as the bubba like the csi uses
I've had them in the same room at the same time and they grow very similar
Bubba is one of those things that breed so true and it's very hard to tell if one's a hybrid of the other
You know
Is cherry aka branchy?
Um, you can make it branchy but not just thinking about it right now, it's not terribly branchy
Has great structure still find ancient aliens a great tvc so many facts about ancient astronauts today
I can't watch ancient aliens. I get too mad. Um, some of my friends are on it on ancient aliens and we all give them shit
for it, but um
You know there has been decent true stuff talked about on ancient aliens but between david hatcher childress jason martell
Fucking georgio. Sokolos. Those guys are so full of shit. David willcock one of the most full of shit motherfuckers ever
Um, cory good all those dudes all bad all bad
so
To you have to watch a full episode to maybe get two minutes of real content or anything
That's remotely factual, but to if you smoke and watch it, it's pretty fun, right?
Csi is 707. He told me then I know of katsu pre-98
So the original cut from sha would be pre-98
But there was another cut I think in socal that was also passed around as pre-98 shah's bubba is the bubba kush though
But they might be the same it might be the same as the pre-98 cut
Um, it's just one of those things with micro climates and climates and how things change and how things express they are so similar
It's it's very hard to know if if the pre-98 the socal pre-98 and shah's bubba are the same
So
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
