Welcome to Breeder's Syndicate.
What's up, buddy?
How goes it?
I found this pack and I was like, oh my God, there's a shitload of G's and less ones in here.
I was like, oh, cool.
But then I remember these are the fake display seeds that I used to put on the counter at Emerald Cup.
So snag them.
They wouldn't get anything.
Damn.
Got by myself.
You know, like I can't tell you how much it makes me sad sometimes when I find old seeds.
Yeah.
And then none of them pop.
Yeah.
It goes from like hope and excitement and joy to like worry to like, oh man.
Yeah.
And you know what?
I just got this in and I'm gonna show it off because it's our buddies.
This is this is seriously a nice fucking presentation.
Like the terpene kits from Crybaby.
Mm hmm.
This is I mean, that's nice, dude.
Yeah.
It's like pro fish.
I mean, it'll be good.
He's down.
We got a plan to have him on to talk to.
I know.
I just wanted to show it off for him so people can see before we do the episode.
It's pretty professional.
There's all kinds of cards in here that just describe everything.
It tells you how to go through it.
Lots of tips and tricks.
Cool.
So what's interesting about it is like they, you know, they have those kind of
things for perfumes and like, yeah, I had some friends that were studying
because I live in wine country, right?
Like studying to be someone.
Yeah.
And in order to do that back then, like this is like 18 years ago or
something, they would buy these like thousand dollar kits.
Yeah.
And the aromas were there to teach them.
Like what an advanced taster was tasting or smelling when they like, you
know, we're talking about Merlot or whatever.
And they were talking about woodsy notes with hints of raspberry and all
that.
They had to be able to like learn the language.
And so they had like a whole book and all these sense and all this
different stuff.
And so for terpenes with weed, it's like teaching people how to talk
about smell.
Yeah.
That's a big part.
It's a big thing if you can do it too.
And it's probably like most breeders and weed nerds biggest week area.
Yeah.
I know it is for me.
I'm not a terp expert by any stretch of the imagination.
No, definitely not.
Neither am I, you know, and neither are a lot of our friends.
Yeah.
You know, so, I mean, there's an aspect where it's like, it's just, you
just lack the language because you don't encounter how to talk about that
language anywhere.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Really?
For terpenes and like wine sommeliers, it's all about using your eyebrows
and like, and your eyes to express.
Yeah.
You know, I mean, it's, and then it's all, and then it's all relative to
that human beings ability to taste.
Yeah.
I have, I have a really bad sense of smell.
So my taste is really off too.
You know, like the whole, the whole shebang sucks up upstairs here.
In this region.
Right.
Yeah.
The whole, everything, everything in this region is sucking.
We're slowly climbing up there.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's weird when I have to do it on this fucking account.
Like most people don't know to follow it, even though I said it.
So are you still shadow banned or whatever on the other one from doing
live?
I checked it this morning and it was like, Nope, you cannot do lives.
Oh man.
Yeah.
Well, it is what it is.
It is what it is.
I'm used to it by now.
But yeah, no people should, we're going to do a whole episode.
I'm not exactly sure when, but we're going to have our,
our buddy cry baby on and he has a lot of knowledge and language around
aromas, terpene sense, what causes smells,
what are the components of it.
And he'll be able to speak a lot more intelligently than either Matt or I
can.
I think, you know, so that'll be soon.
I hope he was the one that was first telling me to stop calling skunky shit
terps. I was like, oops. Yeah.
They're like the alls and like, yeah.
But what's interesting about that is even like the more like rambling for a
while waiting for people to show up.
But even what's interesting about, you know,
the thing about the alls and stuff is how they're volatile. Yeah.
Right. Yeah.
Terpenes are longer lasting.
And I would always notice about the old super skunk that I had that the last
two or three weeks before harvest and the first month after cutting it,
it was just rank. Yeah.
But if you kept it long enough, even if, and you know,
in a nice jar in the dark or whatever,
it would eventually just kind of turn into generic green bud.
Did you find that the more it kept its moisture content,
the longer it lasted in the, as it, Oh yeah, certainly.
And it was actually kind of tough because it was one of those nugs that you
were like, it was famous for like looking dense, but weighing light. Yeah.
Yeah. You put this thing that you'd think was actually a huge node and you're
like, Oh man, this thing's a massive. And it's like 2.8 grams. Yeah.
You know, it just, it had like, but it had really good, like air to air to bud
ratio. So it burned really well. Yeah.
It's very similar. You can do snappers of it.
Somebody like, like cushions especially. And a lot of this cookie shit,
you really have to cure it right to get it to burn well. Yeah.
Yeah. No. But, but you know, super skunk,
you could burn that like pretty quick because it just had like a good amount of
air. It sounds like Denali saved that cut from a Panda.
Oh, that's good. Yeah. I'm real stoked about that.
So we're up over a hundred and eight, 110 people.
Maybe we could start chatting. Yeah.
Do you want to answer a few questions first and then maybe it'll get up higher
a little bit. Yeah. I haven't even fucking looked to be honest.
I've just been bullshitting.
Somebody has asked about mango Hayes. I could talk about mango Hayes.
It's a mango mango.
Hayes is like a super nice line from Shanti Baba and Neville.
It's a NL five Hayes by skunk Hayes.
It's a sister to super silver Hayes.
And it uses this famous cut called the one 22 or the mango,
which is like my favorite NL five Hayes cut.
And it's still alive over there.
I think it's still Scholden coffee shops and a Johnsy has it apparently.
Yeah. But yeah, it's, it's a little bit more hazy. It's a little,
it's a little like, it's got a little bit more of the flavors that I like.
It's got less terpenelein than super silver Hayes.
It doesn't tend to yield as much. But but it's a super nice plant.
And I think it's likely one of the ones where he still has the right parents.
Yeah. I can't say for nobody can say for sure,
but I think people still find really nice plants in that line.
Yeah, they do.
So it's not just a, there is a clone only mango Hayes too, I believe.
I don't know if it's from the same seed line,
but I know Miami mango has that one and it's,
it's like a terpenelein and mango. It's, it's, it's one of my favorites.
It's like a,
I've seen some tests on it and it's terpene content is pretty off the charts.
Yeah. Pretty high. And yeah.
So that's mango Hayes.
It's kind of mango Hayes and super silver and Neville's Hayes are kind of like
the final three Hayes is that came out at the end of like one whole era.
You know? So that's starting at the end, not the beginning, but you know let's
see. Skunk Hayes.
A lot of people in Europe don't like the skunk Hayes is quite as much because
they felt the skunk aspects kind of overpowered the the Hayes like the more
delicate Hayes aspects that they liked.
That's why they were always kind of looking for like bland Indica's to cross
it to. Yeah. To allow, you know,
they kind of wanted like very little turf cuts to blend it to,
to see if the Hayes turps would come through. So anyway,
I don't know. We were going to, we're going to chat about Hayes tonight,
which is a super controversial subject. So a disclaimer,
this is just kind of like our opinion on it and like what we see in the forum
days when things got started,
some of the longest running threads ever were arguments between all these old
timers over Hayes on cannabis world on overgrow probably on IC mag.
It would just go, sometimes it would go into the hundreds of pages of people
battling back and forth over what was the real Hayes story.
One of my good friends over on Mr. Nice did probably what I think was the best
treatise on Hayes,
like overview on Hayes during that time before any anybody else had really been
able to track down anyone to talk to. It was my friend bigger off Mr. Nice.
I see there's someone with that name in here,
but I don't think it's the same dude.
It would be awesome if I remember him on Mr. Nice for sure.
Herb was a cool dude. I haven't seen him in a long time though,
so I don't know if he's still hanging around or what the deal is,
but he, if you, I think it's still up on Mr. Nice and for the most part,
I know it's been considered one of the more accurate histories on it.
But there was some stuff we dug up in the past few years.
I know Bodie found a book on Mr. Nice and he's been doing a lot of research on
the book about Santa Cruz or written in Santa Cruz and Santa Cruz history.
And it actually mentions a few of them by name.
And it's one of the first things we found where there were other names in it,
you know, full names.
I mean, so there's an aspect where like you know,
Hayes has a history dating back to like the late sixties, early seventies.
Yeah.
So it's hard enough to decipher stuff that happened 15 or 20 years ago much
less 40. So there's a lot of, forgive me,
hazy stuff around the origins of it. And on those threads,
there's tons of arguing that's gone on. Yeah. There's tons of arguing.
And there's, you know Sam Skunkman has his version and you know,
he's posted under different names about things he claims to have been a neighbor
to those guys.
But I think what's fairly well accepted is it started out as Columbian by
Columbia. Yeah. I think we could start there.
It was Columbian by Columbian from import weed and they grew it in greenhouses
in Santa Cruz and areas that were mild like that because you needed those mild
temperatures in order to take it till December or January or whenever the hell
it was that they pulled it down.
They hadn't figured out depths or anything like that yet.
And so it got pretty famous. I don't,
Matt has a poster somewhere of it. It got early on,
got named and got kind of legendary. You know,
it was sold high end in New York, I believe for, you know,
quite a bit at the time. Yeah.
It was considered like the super connoisseur weed, right? Yeah.
I would say all this is pretty like standard and not argued about that much.
Yeah. That much, that much it's, it's considered to be correct.
I think that much is considered to be once you get into like who's responsible
for what and what happened when and how and all that,
that's where it gets kind of dicey. Yeah.
But basically what seems like,
and there's a lot of stuff where you read online where it'll talk about like
it's a Columbian by Indian by tie by Mexican.
You know Sam swears that it's Colo by Colo. Yeah.
You know,
and all that stuff was added way later and isn't really part of it.
I remember, yeah. He said the Indian was added way later, if at all.
I don't remember. Was that his claim or not?
I think he said that the Indian was in there,
but it was like it was added as a separate hybrids he offered and never got
mixed in with the, you know, with the core,
with the core amount of hate. So we always had separate Hayes. Yeah.
So, you know, when it really boils down to it or whatever,
it just seems like Hayes was, you know,
a mix of Columbians strains or whatever that they got out of seeds from import
and they got lucky and admittedly it doesn't seem like they knew what the hell
they were doing. Yeah. You know? And it got pretty famous.
And so there's a lot of stories and a lot of mystery between late sixties and
mid eighties.
There's stories out of Santa Cruz. There's a series of brothers.
They wrote some stuff and high top, like there's all these various things and,
and you know, they're, they've been debated ad nauseum other places.
So maybe we don't need to like delve into that part because you can find that
everywhere. But what is part of it is that what's indisputable is that in 84,
84 ish or so,
Sam's gunt man brought it to Holland. Yeah. Right.
So these guys grew Hayes, it got famous.
They were growing it in Santa Cruz area.
It was a mix of sativas, mostly Colombian.
It was getting sold in New York.
And then at some point Sam took a version of it to Holland. Yes.
And as far as we can tell, he,
he was a very good friend of Sam's and he was a very good friend of his.
As far as we can tell, he you know,
he gave it to three people, right? Yeah. That's what, yeah.
Yeah. He gave it to positronics who he actually worked with.
Yeah. And he gave it to Correll from super city of a seed club that Correll
talked about when we interviewed him and he gave it to Neville. Yep.
And all three,
all three of those guys made hybrids with it and sold seeds from that.
And pretty much all Hayes that we can really, we can really trace,
uh, comes from either those three people or stock that made that Sam made
himself in Amsterdam later. Yeah. Offseats he kept for himself.
And we really don't have any verified American Hayes, do we?
Yeah. I mean, we have, we have the originator that we all agree.
I think everybody agrees that Lund was a part of it. Um,
debatable on the, the lady, Kathy. Yeah. It's debatable.
We don't have, I'm just going to say first name since it doesn't really,
neither here nor there. But, um,
there is one guy who keeps all of the,
there is one guy who keeps all the posters.
And as he explained it to me was that the posters were hung up in the dealers
houses that were verified, legit Hayes dealers.
And that's kind of how they verified if they were getting real Hayes or not.
If that poster was in their room,
then they knew that they were getting legit Hayes there.
So that's how he told it now, if it's true or not, I don't know,
but he seems to have the lion's share of the original posters and he got them
somehow. Yeah. Somehow. Yeah.
So, you know, and then like a lot of those things, like not everybody,
um, not everybody involved, uh,
probably has told their story publicly by any means. And so, and you know,
there's a few people that are loud about it that insists they know what's going
on. And, but what we know is it made it there. Yeah.
It made it to Amsterdam and everybody's all the stuff that made Hayes famous
sort of came from Amsterdam back to America. Yeah. I would say.
Yeah. Wouldn't you? Yeah. I think, yeah. It didn't,
it wasn't like Hayes popped up here and kept rocking and everybody's rocking a
cut from here. So what we don't know is it seems like, you know,
when we interviewed Correll from super Santeeva seed club,
he gave us a pretty interesting tidbit and that, uh, Sam only,
he didn't think Sam had that many seeds of it because he only gave him like 10.
Yeah. And he thought that he only gave Neville some,
only gave Neville some, Neville disputes that. Um, but be that as it may,
um, you know, uh, um,
Neville ended up probably making the most famous hybrids with it by far.
Yeah. By far. You could say that, you know,
but positronics had it as well. Original. And so did, uh,
super city of the seed club. Yeah. They all had originals.
And it seems like when you read the stories about what Neville and all the rest
of it is that, uh, they were kind of like us growing, you know,
it's kind of like the sour that, you know, a lot of the starting stories,
it was like a bunch of kids that were young that didn't know what the fuck they
were doing at all. Uh, and they made a bunch of rookie mistakes. Yeah.
Because they weren't used to growing something that took 22 weeks or whatever.
It was a jungle plant and, you know,
and it seems like a number of them got lost by everybody.
Accidents didn't, you know, mom got killed.
They didn't think it was worth much. It took, you know, 25 weeks and never finished.
Um, you know, that kind of thing. And so, um,
they didn't realize what kind of gold they had. I don't know.
So much hindsight needed for that. Yeah. They had, they had no idea.
So Neville Neville had, you know,
a few males and a few females that he burned through and didn't keep, um,
before he, you know, he ended up, I mean, he ended up only by 1990.
He only had one plant that had lived. Yeah.
You know? Um, and so someone keeps asking, did Sam get invited?
Sam's never wanted to come on the show. So no, I mean,
to be honest, that's why I said it first.
Like if you want to secure Sam's opinion about it, um, there,
there you can go hunt on overgrow, you know,
archives or something or anything like that. Like he's posted a ton
on his opinion about it. It's,
there's not a shortage of Sam's written history.
That's why we didn't focus on it for that long. Um, you know,
he disagreed with me on the, uh, Kathy part. So he said that,
that granddaddy Mike was incorrect on that.
You know, that, that's, that's what he said. And it might be true, you know?
So yeah, uh, that's what little I know from him.
After I told the story the last time based on granddaddy Mike, um,
that's the one thing that he had, he said it was, it was very good,
but that's not correct. So from Sam,
the reason why we kind of glossed over that part is that it's the hardest part
to talk about because it's the least documented, you know,
and it's a bunch of history from a bunch of people doing some black market
illegal shit in America. Yeah. All trying to stay under the radar.
And as far as, um, as far as the, uh, you know,
the Hayes goes and everybody knows Hayes, what we just mentioned,
positronics, uh, Neville's stuff and super Sativa seed club and Sam are the
sources that all the Hayes that we talk about now descends from.
Yeah. That's where, that's where it all comes from.
It's either hybrids they made or descendants of it or whatever.
And all the companies like the flying Dutchman or any of these different
groups, a seeds man that sold pure Hayes,
I believe they were all just buying kilos wholesale from Sam. Yeah.
I don't know. I'd love to be able to ask him for sure,
but it sounds like he was doing a lot of reselling like that. Yeah.
I mean he basically, what it sounds like is to not get in trouble. Uh,
he didn't sell directly to anyone outside of Holland because seed sales within
Holland were illegal. Yeah. So he was willing to wholesale, um,
but he wasn't willing to retail. Yeah.
So he ended up working through positronics. He ended up, I mean, that's how,
I mean, you know,
it's funny when people talk about all this like rare skunk one that used to
exist. And we asked Corral about it. He just laughed and he said,
everyone gets skunk one from, you know, buying bags of seed from Sam Scott, man.
Yeah. That's where you got your skunk one. Yeah. Right.
Santa Cruz original, but getting back to Hayes,
it's someone asked about the AC Tase related to Santa Cruz, original Hayes.
Um, I was just going to say that's, that's via old Tizen one who was British.
So I really highly doubt it was sourced via Santa Cruz.
It was just my, my theory on it. Yeah. I mean, I think,
I think they sourced it through Posi maybe. Yeah. I don't know who,
who I know. I know Tom Hills Hayes line was positronic. Yeah. His was,
and it was, his was very different from the old timer Hayes. Yeah. So, you know,
um, oh yeah.
All Tom Hills work and stuff and the,
and the deep chunk hybrids and all that stuff about positronics. Um, they,
um, that was all from, uh, for a while there,
Sam worked with on some fashion at Posi. Yeah.
I'm helping them breed and do working with Werner and stuff like that and
helping them breed different stuff and,
and working lines and positronics was just one of those early seed companies.
Um, you know, when Sam first moved to Amsterdam,
he was looking for connections,
people to sell seeds to and people to work with. Yeah.
And he kind of ended up dealing with everyone in town,
but that was only like a few dudes. Yeah.
That was really like ongoing then or whatever. Right.
And positronics also like a lot of people don't know this part, but, um,
the positronics Hayes 19 skunk one is what gave birth and is the same thing as
the metal Hayes that I think Bodie just released F threes of.
So if you do want like a worked version of that line,
that's a very good way to get it.
So I don't know. I'd never heard numbers until the Corral interview,
but Corral swore that like a Posi him Neville,
they only got like a handful of like 10 seeds each. Yeah. Yeah.
And then the first time I heard that too. And then, um,
and then Sam held the rest back that he had for himself to make his own open
pollination that he did later. Yeah. Um, but I, you know,
I'd never heard that before. Um, but then, you know,
Corral was there and we weren't so, uh, you know, uh, Neville's dead now,
but he claims he got big bags of old ass seat, but only got, you know,
eight or 10 of them to pop out of the entire thing. Yeah. You know, um,
you know, and, uh, so anyway, they, um, you know,
he comes to mid eighties or whatever. He comes here and, and, and he comes,
he comes from California to Holland and he sells hay seeds to multiple different
people and then starts working in himself.
And that was the start of Hayes becoming famous. Yeah. Um,
and it really didn't for at first, even like the very first thing that St,
that, uh, Neville offered was actually a Northern lights crossed to a female
hazy at, yeah. Uh, that was year one.
So there was like this Hayes B that was a girl and it was NL one Hayes B.
Um, and then the next year he came out with NL five Hayes.
I didn't even know that. I don't think I knew that part about the B girl. Yeah.
Yeah. If you go look in the, in the 88 catalog, um, he has,
I think it's actually a, an NL NL one by Ruder Alice.
Okay. And he crossed it to Hayes B. Um,
and he talks about it being female because he was like trying to, to like tame
the, the crazy lead time to flower it. Yeah.
Right. Someone's calling you out. Someone's saying you're incorrect.
I was sure. I don't know. I don't know. How sure am I on it?
I don't know. I mean, we can, I got, I got the catalogs around here,
but he, the, the first two hybrids, he really, he,
he really tried to make was, uh, um, he crossed it to Maple Leaf,
Afghan tea and, uh, he crossed it to, um, uh,
NL five Hayes and NL five Hayes. He re he, he released,
um, uh, the other one, I don't think he released to the public,
but he gave to friends or whatnot.
Is a bigger, is this the bigger from Mr. Nice forums?
Oh, okay. There we go. What's that? Long time. No, see dude.
Oh man. That's so cool. I've read so many year threads on, uh, Mr. Nice.
I've been looking for, I've been actually looking for bigger for quite a while.
That's cool. I'm glad you showed up. Yeah. So, I mean, he, you know, um,
one of the cool things about Mr. Nice is that, um, there was a time in Oh,
10 Oh nine, you know, 2010 or something where Neville was very active on there.
Yeah. And a ton of knowledge about what happened, uh,
dropped both publicly and posts that he made and via DM and communications
with various people that were active at the time. Yeah. Um,
on Mr. Nice and bigger was definitely one of those guys, um,
that was active in communication. And like Matt said,
he had a great write-up on the history of it. Um,
so you can probably still go read. Yeah.
Yeah. Or it was around when, when,
when Neville came back and I started getting fucking around with him and trying
to work the bubbles and all that shit. And, uh,
it kind of petered off on the Mr. Nice forums after that. It really,
really took a dive after all that shit. Yeah.
So somebody has asked a question, which I'll answer just cause it ties in. Uh,
they, they were asking,
did Neville have both an A and a C male and did he use them to breed in
various things? Um, so what it sounds like, uh,
is that Neville ended up with two guys, right?
And, uh, the, and the, and the C right.
And it was easier to use the males because it was easier to collect pollen and
then dust a bunch of Indica females at the appropriate time than it was to try
to deal with the females, I guess. Yeah.
So for lack of a better way, he ended up with a couple of boys and, um,
the, uh, the, uh, he lost in 1989.
He did a huge seed increase and put all of his best Indica's in there,
like the G 13 and the NL five and a bunch of different stuff.
And then him and his workers forgot to keep a backup in the bedroom. Yeah.
So he bloomed every email and they all died and he lost it.
So after that, uh, so often keeping big libraries too.
So he never sold any commercial.
He never sold any commercial amounts of Hayes.
Yeah. He popped them himself and gave out various phenols of it,
which we'll get to in a little bit. And he might,
he gave some private amounts of seed to friends, um, other breeders,
uh, people early on, you know, whatnot, but, uh,
it was never sold commercially.
So everything you ever could buy commercially was the C dad.
So all NL five, Hayes,
all NL five Hayes that you could buy from the seed bank or from sensei seeds
was the C dad. Right. And that's,
so that's kind of like what everybody's got.
Yeah. I'd bring big herb on the live.
I don't know if he's ready to just be pop on on camera all of a sudden,
but he's more than welcome to come on.
No, but we'll re we'll definitely reach out to you after the show.
He's a wealth of knowledge and would be cool to add to things. But, um,
you know, so Neville, Neville had NL five.
NL five Hayes was probably the most famous is probably what put Hayes on the
map to be perfectly honest. Yeah. Uh,
and what I mean by that is that it just made it a permanent part of cannabis
lore. Yeah. Inundated the United States. It did. And he, you know,
in 89 and 90,
the pictures on the front of his catalog were an NL five Hayes a huge running
Cola's big bud, you know, all that.
And it was that and super skunk ended up being him and since he's best selling
seed lines. So NL five,
he's kind of changed the game and, um,
it was super potent and it's probably,
I've said it on shows with Matt before, in my opinion,
it's probably the most successful hybrid ever made.
I wonder if it's because like the line was kicking out more,
the line was kicking out more keepers, you know,
things that people wanted or just because so many were sold,
you were eventually going to find a keeper because it wasn't super easy to find
keepers and all those packs. Was it? I never found a fucking keeper. Yeah.
And I bought, I definitely, I bought plenty of packs, not plenty, but I mean,
I probably bought seven or eight packs in the, in the, in the mid nineties.
But then other people from that same year and same era as me, uh,
there's things that are still traded today that were found right around then.
Yeah. So it's just the myth. It's just the mystery of seeds.
You can find it in one and you might not find it in 200 in a way,
you know? Um, but it seems like that,
that strain was consistent from somewhere to 89 to the mid nineties. Yeah.
Uh, Neville says they lost the NL five mom before he left Sensi,
which was in 95, 96. Um, but, and,
and basically like all the, all the Hayes that we know of,
all the Finos that have been kept all seem to trace back to that late eighties
through mid nineties era. Yeah. And there's a bunch,
and there's a fucking bunch of them. Right. There's a shit load.
I mean, there's a bunch of them that may not even be identified as NL five Hayes
like bull rider might be NL five Hayes based, you know, old Betsy. Yeah, exactly.
Exactly. A sister of bull rider or whatever. But so what ends up happening is that,
um, maybe we can like, uh, you know, that's interesting, uh,
big herb because we've always wondered, there's been a rumor that the Cuban black,
um, could have been from gifted seeds to someone that Neville knew,
you know, and it could be, it could have been a, in that case. Um,
but I've heard that rumor too. I don't know if it's true. Um, but, uh,
I poo poo the Cuban black. I'm going to fuck with anyone says like the,
the, at least the clone circulating right now in the community,
because I know exactly who brought it in and that dude kept fucking lying about
everything he had. So I think it's very, I'm very skeptical,
skeptical with what, uh, with what goes around today as a Cuban black case,
it might be some kind of NL five Hayes, but it is not the original. I know.
What, what, you know, I mean, we can, you know, we're bouncing around and I,
and I apologize cause it's like a multi-decade story or whatever, but yeah,
basically, uh, and we can dive into different parts at different times,
but, um, basically between, you know, 89 and 95 or so,
there's probably like, uh, 10 or 15 elites,
maybe a few more that have survived from that era that are all named cuts and
still held onto. Yeah. Um, of mostly NL five Hayes.
Um, whether it uses the a dad of the C dad, but some G 13 Hayes,
some hash plant Hayes, um, various different things. Yeah.
You know, I've only ever had the hash plant Hayes and hybrids.
They, um, so basically, yeah,
Neville basically crossed it to like all his best Indica's. Yeah.
So it got crossed the hash plant. It got crossed the G 13. It got crossed to NL five.
It got crossed the NL one. Uh,
anything that he had that was an Indica that he thought was a bomb clone.
Yeah. Uh, God, you know, so,
so that's kind of where like people are talking PIF isn't one thing, all this,
we'll get to that in a second.
But basically what happened is is that there's a whole series we can talk about
of famous clones in Europe that Neville hunted and found and then passed out to
France. Yeah. And those got, those got held. And like,
some people call them the Southern, the, I almost said Southern humble,
the Southern Holland, South Holland crew. I don't, uh, yeah.
South Holland crew. Um, and they've been sold in coffee shops for decades.
Yeah. When I, when I first went, you know, to coffee shops in, in Amsterdam,
you could get NL five. Hey, you could get a five, you could get C five.
You could, you could G 13, you could get hash plant.
He's basically every, every trip I went somewhere had, you know,
various versions of it. Yeah.
So they were sold and a lot of people came to Holland to smoke those hazes.
So there was these famous cuts and there's a lot of them that are 30 years old
now or whatever that got, um, that got saved in Europe.
And there's like a whole map to that. And then at the same time,
there was a bunch of people that were trading seeds with Neville, uh,
and buying a bunch of Neville seeds.
And it seems like a combination of New York and Florida. Right.
Um, it blew up and got super popular. Yeah. And there was markets for it.
A lot of the people in Florida were actually sending it to New York because it
blew up in New York and got a top dollar.
And there's rumors that it's been kind of a thing in New York since the
seventies. Yeah.
Like there's always been a high end clientele of like wall street brokers,
musicians, artists, connected people that are,
we're willing to drop big money for Hayes. Yeah.
As long as I've been a smoker, you could go to New York and find Hayes. Yeah.
I wonder why that is. It just caught on and never, I don't know.
Um, but like, I wonder why Dominican crews picked up on it in New York.
I wonder why certain ethnic, you know,
groups just navigated to that specific type.
Is it that New Yorkers just tend to like more speedy weed? You know,
I mean, in this case, the best Hayes in the world, in my opinion,
is in Amsterdam and, you know, New York and Florida. Yeah.
The West coast gets jacked. Like we literally,
we get Jack and super silver Hayes and, uh, you know,
like we get a lot of hybrids of that kind of thing.
And those are more like the poly hybrids that came later. Yeah. Right.
Like, uh, you know, they, on the East coast,
they have a bunch of F ones and S ones of F ones and, you know,
and there's a, people are going to talk about it. You know,
there's people talk about names like Heights, Hayes, downtown Brown, uh,
Pith church, uh, Cuban black. Um, you know,
it seems like there was groups of Dominicans and groups of Cubans that had it
on lockdown. Yeah. You know, people call it block work, uh,
because they could get it on the block. There was green Hayes,
there was Brown Hayes, right. Yeah.
And it's really hard if you're not from there, uh, to know all the different,
you know, are they Finos? Are they the same thing grown different ways?
Are they called different hybrid names is, I mean,
I talked to some people that were in the know and I used to think that it was
like, you know, half a dozen names for the same couple of cuts. Yeah.
But it turns out that in the 30 years that Hayes has been popular in New York
and Florida, there's a fucking plethora. Yeah. There's even,
there's like Poudre. That's another one.
I always wondered what that stood for. It's just a weird word. Yeah.
I mean, there's all kinds of nicknames and stuff. And so what's crazy about the
Hayes is that the, and don't take any offense to this, anyone,
but like the Cubans and the Dominicans and whoever that were running it,
they viewed it very much. So as a business. Yeah.
And they held that shit fucking tight. They weren't into,
into sharing it with trading.
They had like a market and their market was good and they were into it.
And there's dudes that I've talked to that like their entire career,
basically just grown Hayes. Yeah.
You know, that's all they needed to do was grow Hayes, get it to New York.
Boom. They're good. Right. So they don't share that shit. So,
but what's interesting about that is like,
unlike a lot of like random cuts you get,
like where you kind of have to get the cut.
A lot of those dudes, once they realized they couldn't get the real cut,
they just went and bought beans because you can still buy the line and you,
but you know, and it's like,
imagine if your buddies are selling it for a ton of money,
you might go to Amazon and you're like,
imagine if your buddies are selling it for a ton of money,
you might go to Amsterdam and buy a hundred seeds and come back and pop a
bunch. And then all of a sudden you've got the, you know, I've got,
I've got the PIF. Yeah. I've got the Cuban black.
My experience. And this is, this is, uh, I remember bigger,
but I was trying to push a bunch of these off on him because I knew like no
one wanted them. But when I got the PIF,
the Dominicans asked me not to release it pure.
That was the only request they had don't release it pure.
And I wasn't going to fucking snub that, you know,
like you don't want to piss anyone off. So I never did, but I really regret it.
Yeah. I mean, they have, there's a market. So I don't claim to be an expert.
I mean, there's,
there's different people we could probably bring on maybe in the future that
know a lot more about the various names and origins of the various different
Hayes things from New York.
I just wanted to bring it up in general that there's a bunch of cuts that get
passed around in Florida and New York more, but, but Florida too. Uh,
and a bunch in Holland and between those two areas,
that's like 15 different cuts at least a bunch.
So it's probably the line that has the most,
we're lucky if one or two Finos of any famous thing survives from the nineties
to today. Yeah. Right.
Can you think of any other line from that era that has as many cuts as NL five
Hayes does that still float around? Not even close, man.
We're still trying to find a single cut of a lot of these lines, you know?
Yeah. So, you know, and so, you know,
some of this stuff people are talking about gold or Brown Hayes or whatever.
Um, in my opinion, uh,
and I've seen it in like chem four and I've seen it in various strains,
you know, certain strains just when it, when they're,
when they're around oxygen, they sort of cure a little bit Brown. Yeah.
I used to get, remember like the,
the real cherry pie when it was growing would be like deep purple and would
look all crazy when I did it in depths and then I dry it.
And three weeks later it would, the, the,
the purple would turn a little light Brown. Oh man.
I hated that about like blackberries too. Like that beautiful magenta red,
as it dries, it turns just as nasty.
And some of those, some of those Hayes crosses turn Brown as they dry.
It's the Colombian influence, I believe.
And so it might be terpias all get out and fresh and smell delicious.
And someone looks at it and they're like, this shit's old. Yeah.
Old weed, you know? So it's just like, it's a, it's a, uh,
you know, I mean, even like we, I was, we were talking about it.
I was talking about it earlier today,
but I have a buddy who made the chocolate top of the, uh,
the chocolate diesel. Yeah. Right. And it's, and that stuff,
it's basically a chocolate tie by dog by sour diesel.
Yeah. And it was phenomenal. And we had it for a long time.
And no one wanted to ever buy it because it cured a light Brown. Yeah.
Because the chocolate part wasn't so much. It smelled like chocolate.
It was that the tie was Brown. Yeah. And, and, and like Perel said,
back in the day, they wanted that Brown. Yeah. But that Brown was,
it was good Brown. It was fresh. It wasn't like it was fucked up,
but it just a little yellow, little Brown, little off colors. Yeah.
But what's crazy about Hayes is that that is like death on the West coast,
right? Brown, any kind of Brown color at all. And it's like, doom. And I,
I can see people in the comments or whatever,
talking about all the uptown Browns, my favorite. Yeah. That's the one. I,
I give me that Brown. Yeah. You know? So, uh,
there's a bunch of stuff like that where I can name them real quick. Um,
when we talk about a or C it's just basically like a Holland shorthand for,
uh, which may, which Hayes mail of Neville's was used. Yeah. Right.
So there's at least three C fives, um,
that float around Holland that are still alive for sure. Um,
one of them is the, is, is called the one and that's the mom of a super silver
Hayes and it's floats around. It's actually in America right now.
I'm posting in America right now and it's what people, some people,
if you see people posting in America of C five, it's that cut. Okay.
So the C five cut in America is the one, the C five cut in America is the,
it's like the terpenelene bomb. Yes.
It's what made super silver Hayes. So terpenelene dominant, you know? Um,
and uh, you know, and so it, it's, um, it's being passed around.
It made it over the door and it's really amazing, uplifting, super potent weed.
It just, you have to be able to handle terpenelene. Yeah.
If you don't like terpenelene, it's going to be a real problem.
I smoke terpenelene all day.
And, uh, and so there's like three C fives.
The final C five was my favorite. I used to smoke it over there in Amsterdam.
It's the, they call it the one 22 or the mango.
And it's the mom of mango Hayes. And it just takes,
it has more of that mercy and man. Like, uh, I don't forget,
I forget what the terp is that leads to mangoes.
But it smells like ripe mangoes and it's got a great high.
Yeah. Uh, C five isn't SSH. C five is the mom of SSH.
Someone just said so. So then there's a,
there's three cuts of C five at least over there.
There's two cuts of a five. They say there's a G 13,
a there's a G 13 C there's a hash plant by C. Um,
I might be missing a couple. I don't know. Yeah.
But there's a bunch of them over there. Um, and, uh,
and then most of the ones in America are, are, you know,
NL five cross the sea. Yeah. Um, even I should mention too,
that, um, Neville gave Soma of Soma seeds,
some G 13 a and he took a male of that and all of Soma's,
uh, Sativa and hazy lines are based off that,
that male that he kept, uh,
from some G 13 a seeds that he got.
And so what it seems like a Neville was pretty open about this on, um,
on the, uh, on the forums over there was, uh,
Hayes does not like being crossed to itself. No. Yeah.
At all. And what becomes hard is especially with the C the more you cross
the more you cross Hayes to itself, uh, Neville called it cat piss.
We would probably, uh, we would probably call it, um, uh,
but, but the more you cross it, you get terpenelein dominant.
And then only rarely do others, any kind of,
and that's what everybody thinks of is Jack Jack Terps train wreck Terps.
Yep. Uh, super, super silver Hayes Terps. Uh,
that's kind of stuff tends to dominate. So what it seems like is the best ones.
The ones that everybody keeps are the F ones of Hayes to some Indica and the
poly hybrids like super silver Hayes, mango Hayes, uh, Jack or air,
that kind of thing. They don't seem to be as,
but people don't seem to have keepers of those the same way.
Now that there's not cuts of them that don't float around and might be nice.
Yeah. Um, but we should mention too, cause it's fucking,
we're kind of, it's kind of like a ramble or whatever,
but most of these things are there.
One of the most unique things about Hayes is that most of the good ones take
between 12 and 16 weeks. Yeah. Long time.
Long time. A long time.
Like I think the Cuban blacks and a lot of the ones in New York,
90 to a hundred days is a pretty common, uh,
rate to take those ones. The dog shit,
which is about the only West coast one that's any good. Um,
that one's 12, 13 weeks easy. You know, um,
all this stuff from Europe, uh, you know, was, is all 15, 16 weeks. Yeah.
You know?
And so that was one of the things that Neville and Chauncey and all those guys
that were fucking around with it.
One of their criteria was they didn't want anything longer than 16 weeks.
Yeah. Because it was impractical.
Cause asking someone to flower something for four months is already impractical.
Yeah. Especially if it's a money making thing. Yeah. Yeah. You know,
so there's an aspect where it's like, I, uh, you know, they cut it off.
They wanted 14 to 16 weeks, you know?
And it seems like the earliest good ones are more like 12 and 13. Yeah.
Yeah. Um,
but 14 to 16 seems to be the most common range that a lot of them fall into.
I was a big fan of the old SOG super silver Hayes.
That was one of my favorites that ran pretty quick and was mostly skunk one
dominant. Yeah. Sure. Yeah. I mean those, you know,
the super silver Hayes and then the mango Hayes were both, um,
two different NL five Hayes moms crossed to the same skunk Hayes dad. Yeah.
Right. So the skunk helps like throw, especially in the super silver,
it helped it throw bigger, longer, thicker colas. Yeah.
And it could shorten up the time a whole bunch in my opinion, you know?
Um, and, uh, so, you know, they, so then it just became going back.
It just became fucking famous. Yeah.
Everybody had Hayes and all these seed companies wanted to obscure exactly how
they got Hayes. But Hayes just became,
Hayes for a while was sort of shorthand for sativa. Yeah.
It was the sativa, right? Yeah. And you know,
and it got famous in America. It got famous over there.
It was all these various different things. Um, and it seems like, you know,
like I said, the F ones seem to be a lot better than the poly hybrids. Yeah.
The poly hybrids weren't nice. I've, I've grown nice super silver Hayes.
I've had keepers of mango Hayes. I loved.
Um, but it seems like all the most favorite ones are F one. Yeah.
So some type of Afghani or Paki crossed the Hayes cross the Hayes very,
two very different things slapped together and then you see what they get.
And even with those things crossed to it, still the keepers were 14, 16 weeks.
Yeah. So essentially like you're taking some Colombian and like shortening it
from 20 to 24 to 14 to 16.
I've seen a Colombian black go up to 26. That's fucking insane. Yeah.
You know? And so people are talking about PIF. PIF is just, you know,
PIF is a catch all term. Yeah. Or, um,
it's one of the nicknames to Hayes. Yeah. You know, people can argue,
I'm not going to sit there and say that I have some encyclopedic knowledge of
how all the New York Hayes terms came about. Yeah. Um,
but it got a bunch of names popular enough for long enough that it has a bunch
of nicknames, right? Yeah. I said it before. Heights, Hayes,
Uptown Brown, Cuban black, um,
black work, huh? Church, church, Frankie,
short for frankincense, you know, um, all that,
all that different types of stuff.
And there said who day scans for pure. I didn't know that's what it meant.
I don't know if that's Colombian for pure Dominican for pure.
It had a lot of nicknames. Yeah. You know,
and probably just like cush and just like cookie, just like everything else.
It got popular. People got bag seeds.
People got lines from Amsterdam still and pop their own thing and added their
own name to it. Cause they're trying to cash in on the thing.
So it's really hard to say, but rarely, you know,
that line was available for seven or eight years in seed form.
Okay. I have an idea.
I have an idea for a little game we can play.
I'm going to name a few different Hayes cuts and you're going to say pass or
smoke. Oh,
and you're going to be passing it to an idiot or you're going to smoke it
yourself. Okay. Indeed. Okay. Um,
a five smoke. Smoke. Okay. C five.
Okay. I knew you'd go for both of them. Um, dog shit.
Definitely smoke. Have you smoked all Betsy? No, no.
Haven't tried it. Let's see. Or a bull rider, to be honest. Yeah. Yeah.
That's the most, I haven't even smoked for a bull rider that I know of,
you know, like it just wasn't,
it had already died out by the time I got San Diego. Um, let's see here.
I'm trying to think of some, some good hazy cuts that you've tried. Uh,
Kelly missed smoke. There's nothing.
You're not going to smoke that has Hayes in it. Now that I think about it,
I don't think I can name one. Could you? I could. Yeah, I, I would. There's,
there's not really a Jack I've seen that I wished I had a jar on my, on my,
on my, on my, on my shelf there. Wow. So Jack, you're going to pass on a Jack.
Jack, I would pass on the Jack or pass on Jack. Jack to me is like,
huge yielding skunk one on a Hayes frame. Yeah. You know?
And it's like, just, I, I don't know. It like the type of terpenelein that Jack
is, is not my favorite. It's more like it doesn't taste good to me.
You know, I know people love it, you know,
and people loved it cause they got two, three pounds of light with it.
And they crushed it in depths and greenhouses and they basically grew the
shit out of it. And they, they, they,
they got two, three pounds of light with it and they crushed it in depths and
greenhouses and they basically grew the shit out of it until the buyers were
like, uh, you know? Yeah.
How about amnesia? Have you tried amnesia yet? Amnesia is some watered down shit.
I thought it was, it's one of my favorites. Really?
It is one of my favorites by far. Cause it's so like perfumey fruity.
Like it's just nice, man. Yeah. I don't know. I mean, I like, I like the,
the frankincense, the mercy. Yeah. Um, I can't,
I'm not a terpenelein hater by any means. Like I said, I mean, like I said,
C five is a terpenelein bomb. Yeah.
But there's a difference to me between terpenelein that has a little bit of
sweetness or creaminess behind it.
And like I just sprayed my mouth with like floor cleaner. Yeah, that's true.
And that, that terpenelein, you know, it's like,
and I think for Jack and stuff like that,
there was just a bunch of badly grown Jack and it over what, just like train wreck,
you know, it overwhelms people. Yeah. You know, like that Durbin, um,
that Durbin from Colorado or whatever, that one's a terpenelein bomb too.
Sure is. Yeah.
It's super terpenelein and you know, it's like, I like,
there's all kinds of weed I smoke. I'm not a hater on it. Um, but when I,
when I, the interesting part to me is it's not so much.
The only thing I can think of that's like really strong terpenelein that I love
the high is the C5. Interesting.
I don't know about that. Does it true you, you know, I don't know why that is,
but, um, you know, but they, uh, you know,
what's cool about it is that because it made money in coffee shops for so long
and still does, um, it's still hoarded over there. Yeah.
And people accuse us of hoarding. That shit is legit hoarded.
People are like so many people put stipulations on those fucking cuts.
I mean like there are certain seed lines like me and Caleb can never release.
No, because there'll be,
there'll be super pissed off and people will be angry and it's like, and you know,
it's been monetized over there for so long and been sold in coffee shops.
And if you got the cuts, you had to give kickbacks to the dudes.
And I was like very, so those things it's like, and they don't give a fuck.
They don't want to trade you for shit. They have, they have, and they don't.
So that's like the ultimate hoarding because honestly, um,
they didn't slip out until Neville died. Yeah. Yeah.
The entire time that he was alive, that shit was on lockdown with those guys.
Yep. Right. Yep.
And then two, only two of those cuts, maybe more, but only, you know,
but yeah.
I love that.
I love that.
One of the sources for those cuts,
I was sent a list with those on me. I was like, I want those two.
And the dude didn't even know what the fuck they were till I told him what
they were. And that was the biggest mistake I ever made.
I don't, I don't like to dip people and be like, you know, I'm not, I want to,
I'd like to trade equal value. So if, even if they find out later, it's rare,
they at least got the worth, but yeah.
I mean, the hard, the hard part is the hard part is that, um, you know,
these things would never be popular. Okay. You really have to,
you really have to like the high, um, because you take,
you should know what you're growing too.
Cause I see a lot of people asking about the eight five S ones and stuff like
that. That's not going to be a super like, uh, marketable commercial crop.
Nowadays that would sell really well.
I think people have this like fantasized idea because you're saying it's dank
and they, they respect your word.
They don't understand what it would with,
with this definition of dank would look like dank and ugly.
It is like I mentioned before,
like people were talking on the thing about how much they love the uptown
Brown. Yeah. You couldn't sell uptown Brown in California.
No way. No way. Don't get me wrong.
Even if I agree with you and I say that weed's amazing,
it still wouldn't sell here. Yeah. It just couldn't.
And like, if you see the pictures of a five,
there's no resin production anywhere on any leaf for miles.
And you just look at it and be like, fuck that dude sucks at growing.
But really it's the plant. It's ugly. Yeah. But it works, you know?
And so you really have to be into the high. So it's like,
like all these Dutch are like trying to hoard it.
Like Americans are going to like fuck with their money. Yeah.
When you really have to be a consumer,
like a lover of cannabis because it takes four months.
So you have to plan that it's going to take twice as long as the rest of your
shit. Yeah. And you got to keep it happy and healthy and bug free and P and all
the various issues free that long and it don't wash.
Yeah. And then, you know, and then you get some great weed, you know?
And so, um, so it's not, you know, but in, in Holland,
it's like all my first experiences with smoking, all those ones were all Holland.
Yeah. And maybe I could tell a story that people, uh, people might like.
So I went and saw this room in Holland that was growing Neville's Hayes and a
C5 and then one 22. Right.
And so I go into this room and it was one of it.
I only met Neville a couple of times, but it was one of his partners. Okay.
And so I go into this room and it's like,
there's like one gallon pots on the ground. Okay.
With those grow Dan like a rock will rock will croutons. Yeah.
You know, like the little, little croutons, little squares, right?
Yeah. One gallon pots with these stems coming out of them that were like that
big. And those stems went six, seven feet up in the air. Yeah. Okay.
Bear. Right.
And so imagine this little one gallon pot with this stem that's like half as
wide as the pot going six feet straight up and then branches everywhere and
like two or three layers of, uh, of netting. Yeah.
And then they just had a bunch of six hundreds on the ceiling.
I forgot to tell you,
I had a conversation with Seattle Greg the other day and he said when he went
into Neville's grow room, he said,
when he first got there Neville was growing rock wool slabs on the ground.
On the ground. Yeah. And they had,
they had drains in there or whatever else. And they would be honest,
like the slowest constant drip ever, you know? Um,
but it was like, you're looking at literally these,
they were probably 10, 12, 10, 12 foot Paul plants.
That was like where the weed was. And it started at above I'm six,
three. It started above my head.
I walked in and all the netting was above my head and there's these tiny ass
little pots on slow drip and just like a sea of spears above.
How big was the ceiling? How tall are the ceilings?
They were pretty tall. They were like 14 feet or something like that.
They had to be. I mean,
if the fucking canopy starts at the top of your head,
the canopy started, the canopy started about seven feet.
It was about half a foot above my head. Jesus.
From seven to 10 feet was where most of the weed was.
And then the lights were hanging off the ceiling.
And it was like six feet.
Like you looked and there was like a sea of Brent of,
of stock coming out of the thing and going up above your head and then
branching out into huge branches all over. That's wild.
It was pretty wild.
I'd never seen at the time I'd never seen anything like that before in my
life. Because people are confusing.
They're saying,
they thought you were five foot 10. No, that's me. I'm five foot 10.
Yeah. I'm six, three. So it was above my head. And, um, you know,
and what's crazy about that is that their drip system fails, for instance,
that shit's dead in like two hours. Yeah.
That that's what's always scared me about like drip systems,
feeds, hydroponic systems. I mean, it was literally on like the slowish drip.
You could imagine it was basically constant.
And I was like, I don't know. I don't know.
I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.
I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.
I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.
The slowish drip, you could imagine it was basically constant. Yeah.
You know, it was constant feed during the light cycle, you know? So, um,
yeah, it was, it was pretty, but that's how they grew.
And that was Neville's Hayes and the mango Hayes and the C five. Yeah.
And those were all grown for coffee shops at the time. Yeah. You know? Um,
and they were dank. I mean, the Neville's Hayes, um, is,
is, is a five by Hayes C you know,
and the cut that I love still exists.
I hope that it gets sent over to America sometime. Um, I would go,
what the fuck are you laughing at? Everybody's down my height. No,
he's short as fuck. Like 10. Huh? Liars. He's a, he's short.
I don't know how short, but he's, he's, he's short, you know?
So five 10 is a little short. You're right.
Yeah. He might, uh, I don't know.
Girl Pinocchio knows all my dick.
There is a, there was some really good Neville's Hayes. There's,
there's rumor. Uh,
what's really hard to substantiate anything with Shanti or any of the Euro guys
in general. Um, so we don't know if Neville's Hayes is the same or not.
Yeah. You know, um, we don't, uh,
someone asked if we could break down karma's a five S one. Yeah.
He's named a snitch Hayes S one. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, you know, he,
he reversed the, I don't think the, I don't think the, um,
I don't think the Hayes is like being bred even to, even to, um,
out crosses of themselves. Yeah.
They certainly don't want that doesn't seem like they like to be S one very
much. No, there, there was a lot of ugly in them motherfuckers. I mean, yeah,
there's a lot of ugly. You might get, and that's part of the problem too,
is like when it comes to Hayes, you know,
the best stuff is going to be three to four months.
A bunch of it's going to be junk. A bunch of it's going to be jungle weed.
You're not going to know for forever. It takes a long time to fricking, uh,
you know, to get it going. So it's like, I mean,
I can tell a story that I I've told privately or whatever, but, uh,
I went out, I went out to the cannabis cup and I think it was 98 or something
like that. And, uh, it was the first year that they released, uh,
Neville's Hayes seeds. Yeah. Okay. And Neville's Hayes was, so everybody knows,
it was supposed to be a private breeding, um, of, of Neville's.
And he was trying to make what he called the Holy grail. Yeah. A Hayes line.
So he took, um, he took his favorite a five,
um, which, which was on the cover of the 89 and 90 catalog, that female.
And he threw that on the Hayes C male. Yeah.
And it was the first time he tried to breed both Hayes dads into a single thing.
And they found this cut over there.
That was the strongest sativa I've ever smoked in my life.
I've talked about it before. It's crazy that Neville's hates. Oh,
it was just Neville's Hayes. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, it, it, it make, I mean, it,
it is unbelievably potent in a way that weed is not normally potent. Um,
and so I smoked it over there and it blew my head off. Like it,
it made it hard for me to walk downstairs. Yeah.
I like held onto the railing and I felt disassociated and I felt like it hit me
in a weird, it made me feel like I was smoking kind bud with no tolerance.
Yeah. Like I got, it was intense and I got high for hours.
And so I just brought some of these seeds home and I'd never grown an extreme
sativa before.
So I was going to breed with this fucker and I grew it for a few months.
I took some cuttings and then once they rooted and I knew I had backup copies,
I, I flipped it to see what was up. Yeah. Well I flipped it at 1212 you know,
cause it's like 1999 or something. Yeah. I made that mistake before too. Yeah.
And it, it vegged for months with no pistols. Yeah.
It just you wait and you're like week seven you're like the, yeah.
Yeah. And I was like, what the fun? Like all my shit's finishing up.
And it's barely starting. And I was like, Oh fuck. So I like, I,
I tossed them and then I took clones and I flowered those and then I put more
shit in there cause I was trying to breed with it.
And then the same fucking thing happened. Right.
And I didn't know at the time that a lot of those guys over there will tell you
that if you really want to get your sativas to do well, yeah.
Yeah. Clone them a few times and let the plant itself get to be six or seven
months old. Yeah.
Because that's its natural veg cycle before it would even start to bloom in the
tropics. Yeah. You got to realize it's going to veg for a long ass time.
And he's like, no, if you're getting an a five cut that was popped in 89,
you can just flip it. Yeah. It's obviously. Yeah.
And then I didn't know anything about 1114 or 10 1113 or 1014 or anything like
that, which is basically just like for people that don't grow,
it's a how much hours of light and how much hours of darkness. Yeah.
So 1212 for a, you know, 22 years ago or whatever,
that was fine for all my Indica's for Neville's that was like veg. Yeah.
In order to get it to start,
I had to give it 11 hours of light and 13 hours of darkness.
It had to be over six months old and then I had to finish it at 1014 for like
the final six weeks. Yeah. Yeah.
And so I fucked up a bunch. Yeah. I did that with them.
Allow me to vote. He's the one who taught me that trick. So I would have never,
I wouldn't even made sense of it back then.
No, I had no idea. I didn't,
I didn't even make sense of it until I had a buddy in Amsterdam who grew for
Neville and I went back to Europe and saw him the next year and told him like
basically my follies and he just laughed at me and he laid all that shit out.
Yeah. And I had, I had no idea dude. I was like,
it makes sense when someone says it like, and then you're like, Oh God,
that makes sense. And how easy. Yeah.
Every other strain I'd ever grown of cannabis at that point in time when I
turned the lights back to 1212, everything I needed to happen happened. Yeah.
That was my first experience with like weed that didn't do that. You know,
and so that's only with extreme sativas if it's got enough indicate and it
should trigger shit. It's only if,
and it's only if it's from seed because seeds know they're young.
Someone was asking if any of us had grown Kelly miss,
here's an old original pack,
low numbered pack early on of Kelly missed that we haven't popped yet.
One day, huh? Not so. Yeah. One day. Um, you know, so I mean,
it should be said about the Kelly missed, uh, Simon worked for Neville.
It's origins are unknown. Neville thinks that it's an NL five.
Hayes a female. Um, it, uh, but he thinks he, you know,
he thought that everything in Europe was based off his work.
So that's not surprised.
He thought everything in America was based off his work.
But what is interesting is that having talked to some Dutch people, um,
they say that, um, that the, uh, that the Kelly missed was based off,
a mother plant called the mango. Yeah. Now, whether it's the same,
whether it's the same mango that,
that founded the mango Hayes and the one 22 or whether it's a different thing,
I can't say, but they said for a long time it was alive in Europe and then it
got, and then it got lost. Yeah. So, um,
people talk about Kelly missed Western wins.
I remember Western wins has in Cambo in it or supposedly the same fucking thing.
Yeah. And it has Cambo in it. So people, so people that, uh, people that, um,
that don't know, uh,
Tony from Sag Martha and Simon from serious had a company that we talked about
before cerebral seeds for one year. Right.
And they split up Tony made Sag Martha seeds.
Simon made serious seeds and, uh,
Simon's version of the Cali mist was called Cali mist.
Tony's version of the same line was called Western wins,
which is I think one of the cooler names in cannabis.
I always liked the name Western wins. I thought that was a super neat name.
It just makes me think of gas, you know? So, so yeah.
So I've heard people in Europe tell me that they preferred Tony's version to
Simon's that the Western wins. Um, but you know,
then it's hard to say, uh, those guys don't really reveal parentage. No,
uh, we don't know what's in the Cali mist.
We don't know what's in the bubble gum. We don't know what's in the, uh,
AK 47. Um, it's, it's hard to say. Um, but,
but the 90s Cali mist, uh,
Simon got busted in 99 or 2000 when they changed the laws.
And it seems like several of his lines changed after that. Yeah.
And the Cali mist was one of them, but in the nineties,
there was some really amazing Cali miscuts. Yeah. It was, it was a nice line.
Um, you know, so, um, you know, yeah, it's, it's,
that's kind of what happened is it's like people, you know,
people were getting, you could buy, um, they called it, uh,
pure Hayes F 10. Remember from, uh, from, uh,
flying Dutchman. Yep. And they'd straight up, tell you 80% of it is junk.
10% of it is, is, is pretty good. And 10% of it is, is special.
I don't know if, if, if flying Dutchman said that, I know Tom Hill said that.
I'm pretty sure that in the description, they talked about,
they talked about how inbred it was already. Okay.
And that its best use was for hybrids and outcrossing.
Interesting. But if you were trying to find a winner,
be prepared that only less than 10%. Yeah.
So you'd have to do like at least a hundred one hunt. Yep.
And so doing a hundred, a hundred plant Hayes hunt is a fucking nightmare.
Also expensive. Yes. Expensive and nightmarish,
because it's going to be a bunch of jungle weed and the shittiest looking weed
could end up being fire. Yeah.
You're not going to know until you dry it and smoke it.
You're not going to know how potent it is. It can be like, look resinless. Yeah.
And still take your head off. Right. Yep. I mean, so,
but what's cool about it is that it was so fire that it's become one of the most
common names in cannabis and it's been blended into all kinds of shit for
forever. Yep. You know, blue dream has haze in it. You know,
lots of,
lots of huge yielding plants have Hayes in their background because of that
stretch. Yeah. Just stretch the yield.
If you could throw, if you could,
like Jack Herrera was basically figuring out a way to get skunk buds on a Hayes
frame. Yeah.
And if you could get a ginormous Hayes plant with huge skunk running colas and a
little NL density, then you're three pounds of light, bro. Yeah.
Three pounds of light, three pounds of light, bro.
I used to know the days you're supposed to fucking lollipop on for three pounds
of light, but I don't remember it anymore.
So maybe, I don't know, maybe we should, we've been,
we've been rambling about Hayes for a minute.
Maybe we should talk a little about, so Neville made, Neville made all these,
all these hybrids, only a few of which he ended up selling to the public.
Yeah. But there was a bunch, um,
like the G 13 Hayes crosses and, uh, the, the silver Hayes,
which was Afghan, a maple leaf,
Afghan tea by Hayes and different things he passed out to friends and other
people in Amsterdam and even some people that bought seeds off him early on.
Yeah. So those things got spread out a little bit.
And there was keepers that were found,
even though you could never buy G 13 by Hayes. A yeah. Uh, you know,
they had it. And then, you know, um, after that, uh,
he started trying to make polyhybrids and blend them all together and cross
various select cuts. He'd found, he tried to cross,
he was trying to do skunk, skunk NL and Hayes mixed together. Yeah.
Is he considered those to be like the three most famous lines in,
in Holland? Yeah. So can I get a plant that contains all three?
And what it sounds like is it was just a terpenelein nightmare.
G 13 Hayes. Uh, all the polyhybrids he was trying. Oh yeah, yeah, yeah.
You know? Um, and you know, he, so there, I went to the,
the first cup I went to was the Jack, there was a cup in 1995,
a cannabis cup in Amsterdam, which is the only place that they were.
And in 95, uh, Ben and Alan drunkers, or this was actually, I guess,
yeah, it was 95. So Ben and Alan drunkers wanted to, um,
have a commemorative release because the whole theme for that, uh,
that cup was Jack Herrera and the emperor wears no clothes. Yeah.
And the impact that Jack Herrera had on the cannabis movement. Right.
So there was all these going, keep going. One second.
So there was all, there was all this, there was all this theme or whatever.
Right. And so Neville had been working on this,
this NL five Hayes by skunk Hayes,
but he hadn't really found what he wanted yet.
So Ben and Alan drunkers, cause they were at Sensi and sent,
and Neville was at Sensi at the time.
They convinced him to release this sort of like not ready for primetime thing,
um, and call it Jack Herrera. Okay.
So that's how the Jack Herrera came about was they had,
they already had a Fino of it, um, that they had at the cup,
that they had flower at the cup. And then they,
they released Jack Herrera as a seed line at Sensi seeds that, uh,
at the cup, that was like a big debut was you could buy Jack Herrera at the
cup. Damn it. I thought I had my Jack Herrera 95 poster here,
but I can't find it real quick. Anyway. So, so Jack got, Jack got, uh,
Jack got released. Um,
Jack supposedly is the Genesis of fucking a brother's grim C99 is bag seed
from a coffee shop in Amsterdam of Jack Herrera is the supposed is the
supposed origins or whatever. So yeah, it's a bag seat.
So it could be half Jack or full Jack as you know,
supposedly if you believe him,
it was found in a bud of Jack Herrera bought at a coffee shop and he brought
it home and did shit with it. So, um,
Neville wasn't satisfied with the, with Jack Herrera.
He felt it was still unfinished and he left. Um,
he left a Sensi later that year and he kept working on the project and he got a
Shanti Baba to help him. And they basically,
they had the mothers that they wanted.
They were going to use the C5 and the one 22 and they kept trying to find
different skunk Hayes dads that would do what they wanted. Yeah.
And according to them,
it took a long time and a bunch of different males and a bunch of different
growing shit out and a bunch of pain in the ass. But, uh,
after a few years they found a skunk Hayes dad that worked and Neville
preferred that skunk Hayes crossed to the, uh,
C5 and Shanti preferred that same dad crossed to the one 22 and they couldn't
agree on which one was the better line and better representative.
So they released both and they called the skunk Hayes by C5,
the super silver Hayes and they called the, uh,
mango Hayes by same skunk dad mango Hayes.
You know, super, super Hayes is one that I've actually ran a bunch of,
and that's one that I had the hardest time finding keepers in,
but I have smoked others keepers. Like I said,
the old Sox always one of my favorite,
but there are some really good keepers out there,
but I just never had luck with super.
So I brought, I brought some to, um,
I think our party a couple of times it wasn't mine wasn't super elite.
I wouldn't say it was a nice cut. Um, it yielded like crazy.
It was great to depth and great to grow outside.
And it had a lot of qualities you want in mold resistance and just general
happiness. Um, you know,
you know, it had a light terpenelein base or whatever, but, um,
but so basically super silver Hayes and Neville and a mango Hayes are two
sisters crossed to the same dad, you know,
so they're pretty close, um, but they're just different, you know, um,
super silver Hayes tends to be more terpenelein mango Hayes tends to be a bit
more mercy and more, more mango style. I tend to,
I like the mango Hayes better as a Hayes. Uh,
the super silver Hayes is a crazy production plan. Yeah. Um,
and then I've had some euros tell me, um,
like a gene finder that they, there was a super silver Hayes in Europe.
That was like a 14 weaker. That was like their all time favorite.
Interesting. That one seems lost. Oh, that sucks. It does. Uh,
but there was an outlier that was a more hazy, more, you know, more,
more, you know, less skunk, more Hayes.
And that one was supposedly phenomenal. Um, but in a poly hybrid,
it's going to be hard to, to find something, you know, um,
Neville complained that none of his poly hybrid work was as nice as any of the
F ones. Yeah. No matter how hard he tried,
they just weren't quite as good, you know? Um,
but I will say that that Neville's Hayes that he made,
it's the most potent sativa I've ever tried in my life.
And I know that cut still exists in Europe. Yeah.
So it's really amazing. You know, it's interesting. I just thought about it.
I don't think most breeders or seed makers even talk about the failures anymore.
No. Well, that's because, um,
most of Instagram and social media is marketing. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. I guess it doesn't pay to talk about your failures.
Like, do you know what, you know,
I mean you know what the greatest cure for powdery mildew was what comes to
ground? Oh, Oh, you know, you're right. Yeah. It just disappeared. Never see it.
Gone. So weird. Yeah. No one ever struggles with it. Right.
And I, you know why? Because it gets curated out. Yeah.
You're like, Oh, this is a beautiful bud. And there's like one spot of, you know,
of mildew on a family for your whatever. And you're just like, fuck.
I remember, you know, this is a little off topic,
but I do remember when swerves Cali connection story came out in high times and
he was so proud and you fucking took pictures of it,
threw it online.
And the first thing everyone sees is big old powdery mildew fucking spots all
over his leaves. Yeah.
We used to get grilled if you'd show up with powdery mildew on anything.
So I think the internet culture kind of negated that because people would get
fucking railed on.
So you want to know how I'm a, I'm not big on conspiracy theories. Yeah.
You know, but I'll tell a story that most people don't know.
Is that the thing that sent powdery mildew into Northern California,
Mendo and humble and made it forever an issue was Osama bin Laden and nine 11.
Why is that? It's fucking crazy. So nine 11 happens, right?
It's September 11th.
And he crashes, he crashes these airliners into the twin towers, right?
Yeah. So everybody's all freaked out and they shut down airliners for three days.
Yeah. Okay. But they were worried about them.
I'll kind of planning biological attacks on cities.
So they grounded all America's spray planes so they couldn't spray biological
agents for eight weeks. Okay.
And then they shut down the airlines for three days.
So they grounded all America's spray planes for eight weeks. Okay.
So from September, so from September 11th, all the way through September,
all the way through October,
no spray pains could be in Marin and Sonoma in Napa and Mendo,
you couldn't have spray plants. Okay.
And that's how a bunch of those places controlled powdery mildew. Wow. Okay.
So then in the Santa Rosa paper, which is the big town in Sonoma,
afterwards you see things like Robert Mondavi and other people losing millions
of dollars in grapes this year to powdery mildew.
And all of those vineyards are all right by the highway. Yeah.
And I shit you not dude in the nineties and in 2000, 2001,
all the hydro stores I would go into, none of them had any powdery mildew control.
None of my friends had powdery mildew powdery mildew was something that you got
like outdoor, maybe an October, maybe a touch here and there.
If you got unlucky, never saw it, never saw it indoor. Never, ever, ever.
Not, not a single clone ever.
And within two months of nine 11 happening,
every single one of my friends had it. Yeah.
And then within a year or two, every hydro store had a whole shelf. Oh no.
Here's how to kill the shit. You know, there was stuff,
there was biologicals like eight Q 10. You know, there was,
there was a, you know, you know,
there was learning about how to kill that shit and how to get rid of it was
uncomfortable. Yeah. It was really bunk because it looked like in the beginning,
it wasn't fucking up your weed. Yeah. But it really fucked up your weed.
Oh, it really fucks it up. You know,
it's like you think spider mites are fucking up your weed.
They're not really fucking up your weed. Yeah. That's really,
really messing with your herb.
And so it took a number of years to figure out how to not transfer it,
how to, you know, no one had ever dealt with it. Yeah.
I'd never seen it. Like the first two, three years I lived in California,
four years, maybe I never saw a single indoor,
my friends or myself that ever had it. Yeah.
None. That's crazy. That's so crazy. And now it's like it.
And then once it became, but then you, if you, if you think about it, right,
imagine thousands of acres of grapes kicking off clouds as the highway drives
by PM that they can't treat. Jesus Christ.
It just, it just, it just got all over people's fucking tires.
It got kicked in the air. It got all over the place. And then it's like,
it's been, I'm not saying that that's the only reason,
but it's been a problem ever since. Yeah. In all honesty.
And then all those clones from NorCal get spread out all over. Yeah.
And then people get PM and they don't know how to deal with it and they don't
know how to get rid of it. Yeah. And you know and it's, you know, it's,
it's just one of those pathogens. Yeah. It's, it's obnoxious as fuck.
It's, it's evil.
I was just going to run these by since we're winding down on,
I was just looking, these,
these were in the same bag with the Cali mist and the bubble gum and stuff.
I actually was able recently to send a bunch of these back old spice of life.
I have some old legend seeds. Actually my,
my last pack of the Johnny blaze that people were mentioning,
I finally got to get those back in the hands of red who made them.
So I think red might be making some new versions of the old legend seat stuff.
So people that were interested in those, you might actually come back to fruition.
Legends was a good, was a good company for a while there.
They had a bunch of good shit. Yeah. Reds, reds, the shit.
I like that guy a lot. I do. You want it.
You want to do some quick questions or we can do questions. All right.
Any that you saw that you want to pick up on? Oh man.
Now you're going to call me out and make me remember. Yeah.
If people are listening, ask questions right now. Yeah.
Do you have a dying question that you have to ask? Can you speak on the
highlights? What's plant like? How does it compare to the NL five?
I'll do that real quick. I also sent red back some legends, ultimate Indica,
Dookie. He also got the legends, ultimate Indica for me.
Hawaiian lights is oddly enough. It's more Afghani.
Even then the NL five, it tends to be more broadly for an expression.
We saw some bubble looking types in it that weren't Bubba smelling,
but they were just the typical Bubba structure. Lots of resin production.
There was some color in these lots of tropical turps, lots of pineapple,
just all through the, the tropical range.
I'm trying to think of what the best way to describe that is,
but it's really hard. Tropical think tropical,
basically tropical Afghani.
And that is essentially what Hawaiian lights comes out like very,
very it, but they all are pretty much broad leaf. So yeah, that's,
that's the Hawaiian lights in a nutshell.
We'll have Caleb come on and talk more about it soon.
We're going to be dropping the hybrids, I believe this weekend.
I'm going to do my best.
I've been packaging a bunch trying to get through all the packages and
orders. So once those are done, then I'll add in the Hawaiian lights hybrid.
So keep your eyes posted on right.
Cico.com and humbled CSI.com for both.
So there's a couple, there's a bunch of questions out. There's a,
there was some stuff on leather turps,
the A five and some of the,
some of the rare haze turps definitely have some leather in them animal and
leather.
I actually kind of prefer that dark profile to like the super bright fruity
terpenelein type of thing on it. You know, there's,
there's haze lines available all over.
The trouble is just pulling out what you want out of them.
You know, there's an American leather is also a motor rebels,
his version of Steve tucks,
Sarawana, which is very different is very, there's a lot of leather in it.
There we go. Someone else just said it too. Yeah.
Yeah. And there's there's, you know,
there's some American seed companies that I won't, that are you know,
they're crossing things to Cuban black and other haze things.
There's obviously some European seed companies like Shanti Baba that have some
stuff. There's a big debate on what he's lost and what he's had,
but there's a lot of leather in it.
You know, you can definitely get,
it seems like the mango haze is still really good from him.
You know, there's smaller breeders doing smaller work on hazes.
It definitely is easier to get a, well, I don't know if easier to get,
but you know, there's,
there's good case cuts out there that are starting to slip out a little bit
more wide. You know, that kind of thing.
And I think it's, it's, it's, it's, it's,
it's a good thing to have a lot of,
you know, that kind of thing. So, you know,
people were talking about when did the first cookie pop out?
That's a whole show in itself, but probably by probably like, Oh,
nine ish. Yeah. I would say I can't talk about,
somebody mentioned the legitimacy of Scott from rare dinks.
Neville's haze. Couldn't tell you just no idea. You know,
Neville's haze has been for sale for a long time.
If you use Neville's haze from Neville, couldn't tell you what era was from.
No information on that as far as that goes.
But you know you know,
there's big debates.
People talk about newer,
newer releases of shanty stuff don't have that.
People always get that way.
Sometimes I wonder if it doesn't have that or just you found it in one or two
packs and then you go through five or six more packs looking for it.
You don't find it. Yeah. Is it in there?
Did you just not see it that time? Yeah.
Did the luck of the draw not pop up, you know, because it's, it's, it's a,
it's a super bitch to find one that you want.
Purple haze was a super famous haze from the original
haze lines from America.
You know, they kind of said, they said they kind of bred it out on accident.
It was actually magenta haze on the poster. Now that I think about it.
Yeah. Magenta. Yeah. You know,
you know, so the problem with haze is that it's hard to find keepers.
It's rare,
but there is a bunch of interest in it all of a sudden in the last two or
three years.
And so that's gotten some American breeders collecting cuts and making
hybrids.
And you can find Johnny come lately, motherfuckers, you know, just,
just be prepared to hunt through some jungle weed and, you know,
and don't, don't let, you know, we should mention we should mention that
if we're talking about jungle weed,
there is a super famous cut of a NL five haze a,
I think in Holland and it's called Dr. Grinspoon.
It's it's called quays motherfucker.
Okay. Whatever. Quays, Dr. Grinspoon.
I'm just going to say most people probably know it as one of the other.
It's not the same thing. Okay. Anyway, quays. So I'm calling quays. Yes.
So the point I was trying to make is when you watch this thing grow,
it's a million little Calyx is like this fucking big.
It's like the kind of thing where 99% of growers would cut that shit halfway
through. Right.
It produces a million little one hitter type bong rips. Yeah.
But the weed off it's unbelievable. Yeah.
So if you're growing haze, don't go by looks. Yeah.
Wait until you can smoke it and see what the effect is and see what the taste
is. Yeah. Because some of the shittiest looking weed imaginable,
and I'm talking ugly, like, like, like haze is not IgG photogenic.
No, there is a lot of ugly haze, brown,
shitty fucking growth, hairy looking,
but then you smoke it and it tears your head off and it tastes delicious and
you're happy and giggling and life is good.
So you really have to make sure don't, don't give up early.
Cause that's what everybody does.
I bloomed out the quays didn't keep cuts. I was like, what's this shit?
And I did pollinate it, but I was like, nah, I mean, you know,
Neville even talked about like his favorite female.
He bloomed it out and it took 20 weeks and he thought it was the hairiest,
ugliest, never finishing piece of shit ever.
And he cut it down and he hung it in a corner and he killed the mom.
And then a month later he made some hash out of it.
And he said it was some of the best weed he'd ever smoked in his life and he
still regretted losing it. Yeah.
But by looks it was the ugliest piece of shit he'd ever seen. Yeah.
And also you can't judge Hayes. Hayes is not cookie. Hayes is not photogenic.
He's what you're going for with Hayes is taste and effect. Yeah.
You know, it's going to be a gnarly big, ugly plant.
You could get some pretty ones. It's not impossible,
but don't give up if it looks hideous. Yeah.
There's only a few people I've seen make pure Hayes look photogenic and you're
very, very few. Yeah. And then on top of that,
what's going to happen more often than not is that ugly piece of shit that you
held onto that you had dreams for that was going to be it, isn't it?
And then it's just an ugly piece of shit, you know? And you're like,
cause that happened to me quite a bit too. You know,
it's like I buy all this Neville's Hayes and it takes me fucking forever to do
it. And it's like 14, 18, whatever weeks. And then I'm like, Oh,
I don't want to keep it. Yeah. God, I will.
I will say like I never really rocked for a date with stuff just because the guy
was a dick to me. But, um,
a lot of people do like the moonshine Hayes. I, I got to smoke it once at, uh,
one of the Denver cannabis cups at some mad ball or something.
I can't remember who was playing, but it was some punk rock show. And it was,
it was pretty good. Not going to lie. Even as biased as I am,
it was pretty good for a fucking Hayes.
I think reached a good job on the moon.
If you limit your seeds to only people you think you like,
you're really limiting your seeds and cannabis. Yeah. Yeah. Very much so.
Sometimes weirdos and assholes and whatnot, sometimes they pop out fire.
Yeah. You know? Yeah. And I'm, I don't even know dude,
so I'm not even dissing him. I'm just saying that, you know, that, that, uh,
um, it's tough. That's what makes Hayes tough. It's tough to find.
And so it's cool that people are trying to make like more accessible Hayes and
that it's kind of gaining in popularity again,
especially from some of these smaller seed companies and people trying to pump
it in New York because, um, that'll keep it alive.
You need periodic booms of interest to keep things going.
Yeah. You know, you really do.
When I was selling PIF, nobody wanted it. And now it's very in demand.
I wish I would have sat on those seeds, froze them, you know, till now,
but that's not how shit works.
I was joking about a rare skunk one the other show. Uh, you know,
15 years ago you couldn't give skunk away. No. Couldn't. Uh, you know,
a lot of the companies put free skunk one or skunk Hayes or skunk,
whatever hybrids, hybrids out there. Yeah. Cause they just had so much,
they just had so many stock and they never sold any.
So you might as well make people happy and throw in four seeds.
Yep. Now people are like, well,
maybe there's some secret sauce in this old skunk one that I can find.
The secret skunky smells. You know, you'd have a lot better luck.
Hope hunting for something secret and Hayes. Yeah. Um,
then you would in skunk one. That's for sure. Don't one. You've,
people have probably pushed it to its limit. Yeah.
Hey, is there still surprises? And people ask,
I should just remember cause it popped into my head.
People asked about the bandaid Hayes seven. Yes.
Cause that's a cut that floats around.
I will say that people I respect like yo Sammy and Europe and others have told
me they view that cut as equal to the old cuts that they hold.
That's pretty cool.
So it's the first Hayes in a long time that they feel is as good and stands
right there with those old 25,
30 year old strains that have been kept forever. That's interesting.
And it's a lot more accessible to people. Yeah.
And you know, in America than a lot of these other ones that I talk about,
these things are, I should mention people think I'm connected or whatever.
I have been fucking hunting all of these European Hayes cuts since the
nineties. Yeah. You know, and it, it, it was like the white rabbit.
It was like multi decades of looking. Yeah.
And there's still some like that Neville's Hayes cut.
I want that thing so bad. Um, I know where it is.
I can't get it. You know, if it's in America, I don't know about it. Yeah.
Um, you know, but, uh, anyway, the bandaid Hayes seven is an amazing cut,
uh, amazing effect. They're growing it over in Europe. They love it.
It's easier to get in America than the rest of them. Yeah.
It does take forever, you know, so be prepared to go 14 weeks or whatever.
Um, but it's a, it's a fire cut by all accounts. Yeah.
And it's a, it's a, it's a fire cut.
Um, and, uh, I believe that's Cuban black, uh,
Hayes cross to a five tie.
I believe so. Yeah.
Whatever Cuban black is.
Yeah. So whatever. So it's possible that, you know, it's,
that it's, it's a C five cut by an eight five cut by some,
a time male to provide pollen. Maybe, maybe. Yeah.
But whatever it is, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's,
it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a,
Maybe.
But whatever, whatever case, maybe, um, there's a cut,
you can still buy bandaid Hayes seeds.
There's various versions of them and there's at least this one cut that
came out, uh, elite status. Yeah.
And the people that have been running a lot of these hazes for 30 years,
if they think it's as good as the rest of them, you know,
that's pretty high praise from them. Yeah.
Yeah. Adoptee is doing a lot of work that he's a good dude.
Duffy's doing a lot of work that he's good dude. So, you know
Yeah, we did talk about Tom Hill just in in brief
Not very not for very long
you know, but Tom Hill did release did have Tom Hill Hayes and
did have Tom hate Tom Hill Hayes by deep chunk and
Maybe some other more work around that. Yeah, and I believe all of his stuff descends from positronics Hayes lines
is
Kind of saying that you're wrong about a five and c5 not existing. I don't think he's confused. No, they don't exist
Yeah, they definitely exist
What I'm saying is that there's there's various Hayes cuts that I know are alive in Europe and I don't know if they're alive here
Yeah, there's a five and c5 that have popped up in America and there's a number of people that have them
There's still politics around releasing seed around it or trading it or whatever so they're still tough so they're alive
some of them I should to be said some of them have
Some of them have the virus
Yeah, so be careful
yeah, I haven't run the SSSC hazes someone's asking about but
That's a good thing to mention because one of the things that's interesting is almost all the Hayes that's available is
Based off of Neville's work, which is a couple of males
Yeah, right or some posse work or whatever, but Neville's seems to be the stuff that everybody found firing
Yeah, and when we interviewed Correll
Correll had a they had a it's been confirmed by friends of mine. He has a 35 plus year old skunk Hayes
Yeah that he made from Hayes seeds given to him
Yeah
And what's interesting about if you were to get corrals work and cross it to some of Neville's work is that it's not Neville's males
Yeah, it's another genetic of Hayes. Yeah, so it's not quite the same bottleneck
Yeah
whatsoever
You know because Hayes doesn't like being crossed to itself. So but and it's from that same batch of seed that Neville got
You know, yeah, so I didn't really realize that until we talked to him. Yeah, that was a mind blower
But his SSSE
Hybrids off that skunk Hayes should be a completely different Hayes that's been available up until recently
Yeah, but from the same seats from the same era
I am gonna be really excited with some new outdoor space to finally run some of my Hayes collection and other ships
Stoked
Finally get to pop that SSSE stuff because I've really wanted to
Yeah, so I mean there's I don't know I could I could try to you know at the end of it
I could try to name, you know, there's
There's dog shit and the caught we haven't talked about the Colorado cough. No didn't talk about the cough. The cough is another
No 5 Hayes episode though. Yes
There's cough there's dog shit there's Cuban black
That's great Dutch treat
Sweet skunk from year from Canada has a bunch of nl5 Hayes in it
Or is it?
You know at least in its original form. So there's a bunch of American cuts that float around
There's eight or ten Dutch cuts that float around. I don't know what that all adds up to
But what's great is that it seems like from from a line that was available in the 90s
Yeah, there's the stew which is one that I don't actually somebody mentioned that I know I know that I know of the stew the
Stew is an old
As another old nl5 Hayes from the East Coast. I've never actually grown it. It's been one of those rumors
That I hear about okay. I've heard stories of the stew. I've talked to people that I trust that
Have talked about the stew
I've never seen this do
I'm gonna like is it kind of like disco stew in The Simpsons where like the D rubbed off his jacket?
So it was the stud and then do I almost want to say people might get me wrong, but it's like it's uh
The stew might be from Jersey or something close somewhere in that New York region
Okay, and it's old but I but I don't know anything about it, but it is it is another supposed nl5 Hayes cut
That and an island sweet skunk is a little different than sweet skunk and then Mark Emery did this thing
You know that confused the lineage of it
But as far as we can tell there is a real
There is a real sweet skunk that was basically mostly nl5 Hayes
Yeah, then it got cropped it did did
Steve cross it to like grapefruit or something or yeah, I don't know what it was crossed here
So, you know anyway
The you know for you know, so it's it's cool in the sense that there's a bunch of different phenos
Yeah that have survived
You know
All females obviously we don't have any I don't you know, people were asking me
Where could you get real nl5 Hayes male pollen and I think that might be lost to time
Yeah, we have one of our buddies Kim Blackburn is is a part of the cough crew
So we have people closer to the cough that know the history of it real well
So I'll probably bring him on at some point working man to talk about it. He's a cough fanatic
Yeah, and he's got he knows he knows the story pretty well. I mean, there's some there's some still confusion about it
There was cough one and there was cough two in Colorado. Yeah, I used to smoke the cough in the 90s
I had really good friends of mine
I grew up with it and ended up moving out to Boulder in
The mid 90s and I used to go out there all the time and that's where I smoked that Sandalwood tasting ak-47
Yeah, and some of those other famous 90s, Colorado strains
But yeah the cough exists the New York stuff exists strawberry cough is much different
I don't know the origins of strawberry cough. I
Know what Cushman says?
I know that it is exactly like herb beer and his turps and has a lot of the similar
Traits to it. I like some strawberry filled haze
Or whatever that's worth. Yeah, and the cough, you know the cough basically like got famous in Fort Collins
But I think it came from Connecticut
Mm-hmm
I don't want to misspeak but our buddy working man knows like
The people involved and like the people that brought it to Colorado from there and all that different types of stuff
so it definitely is
You know, yeah, you never know the dog shit the dog shit I really wish still had its original name
Its original name is right up there with Western Winds is one of my favorites the dog shit, Minneapolis was called electric boogaloo
yeah, you know, it sucks is like I was doing the labels for the
The dog shit cross to the Hawaiian lights and I was like, I just wanted to put electric boogaloo, but I know
Most people won't even associate that with the dog shit cut and they'll just sit there, you know, yeah, you know
It'll just sit there but but electric boogaloo is like one of the all-time great names
Yeah, you know I love
What was asking about?
Belong to there's it's like a lion. Yeah, I mean the cough is super easy
We still have we still have good friends that grow the cough
That we talk to all the time so luckily the cough is alive and well
You know, there's there's Hayes in Florida that got shipped to New York, you know
There's crews of Cubans down there. There's crews of Cubans and Dominicans in New York that run it
There's you know, Hayes heads
Cabin fever, that's totally incorrect. It was what I was just talking about. It's not fucking mad farmer
He had nothing to do with that cut. It was a cut out of blue sky cafe
Originally and it was made by lion something farms
You can still find the info on icy bag
Way back when he made it long before mad farmer came to this and it's an aftoui cross deep chunk
It is not strawberry cough deep chunk. So it was just relabeled by blue sky. There we go
So I mean one of the things I should say about one of the things that draws people to Hayes is that?
We live in an Indica dominated. It's like the exact opposite of the 70s and 80s
Where
Excuse me where sativa ruled the game
Yeah, we live in an Indica and Indica dominant scene
Yeah, and Hayes is a tie back to that ancient
You know no longer available import and it seems like it gives people a better high in a different way
It has a different high profile
It hits people and even if people are extremely used to an experience with smoking chems or you know
Oh geez or whatever. You can smoke some Hayes and
Have it hit you like a brick
So even though it's ugly and takes a long time and has these various issues
It's popular for my favorite reason for weed to be popular
Because it works. Yes. Yeah, it works good
You know, so that's the best reason to like weed weed that works weed that works
You know, yeah, so
All right, I'm gonna
103 minutes, so I think we are good for this session. We are good for the session
So I mean once again everyone, thank you for giving us like your Friday night to let me ramble and
you know and whatnot and Matt and shoot the shit and
You know, you can reach out to us on our discord on our
On our speakeasy discord you can reach out to us on our IG pages
Discord's easier. We always are not read that readers syndicate discord the speakeasy discord is a different one. Oh, yeah, that's right
See, I misspeak. Well, I should get let you do the I'm so bad at any kind of promotion. I know I appreciated it
I was watching I was letting you roll. But yeah, so the the breeder syndicate discord we post on there quite a bit
We answer questions all the time
We're always down for people to give us ideas of it's all about like what you guys want to hear about
we're trying all the time to like bring people history and make it modern and
Tie it into what they know and expand people's knowledge and stuff like that. So
once again
Into it, you know, you can search for breeder syndicate on Google
Right breeders syndicate patreon
Breeders syndicate patreon see I this this you're almost there. I'm almost there
I'm almost there. But anyway, thanks for listening everyone
We'll have we'll be there. We'll be here next week. I'll see ya
If you're a patreon member you'll get first access to them and they're way cheaper for you, so cheers cheers
Not so peace
