Welcome to Breeder's Syndicate, where we explore the history of a clandestine
scene through the eyes of the folks who lived it. I'm Matthew, owner of Riot
Seeds. I'll occasionally be joined by my co-host NotSoDog, breeder and grower
from Mendocino. Welcome to the underground.
So I decided to add in this JJ New York interview because there's some really
good info in it. There's a few technical difficulties in the beginning and yeah
just want to apologize for that in advance but there's good info in here.
JJ's been an old friend for a long time, early member of the Chem Crew family and
always has good insight. So I hope you enjoy.
What's going on? Not much, just dealing with the normal shit. You know how it goes.
So there's a couple things I wanted to talk to you about. Let's do it. One being
the Jizzle. The Jizzle is super skunk Chem D to my knowledge.
You stated it was super skunk I think. It could be a super skunk S1, we
don't know because there's no Chem D coming out of the progeny at all in any
of the S1's. Or a super skunk that came out of a Chem D mother though. A Chem D flower.
I was told by Greg that it came out of the super skunk flower that the Chem D herned.
I thought I was told the opposite but maybe I'm wrong. Either one of us
could be wrong. Greg didn't keep good notes as we know.
Right, right. That's correct from those guys. Him and the Weasel both. You could ask the same
question twice and get two different answers. That's a fact dude.
Have you grown the mass super skunk? No, I have never grown mass super skunk.
Never had it. Okay, because you know with the speculation that the mass super skunk is with
the sour diesel and I kind of have a couple discrepancies about that. Because the mass
super skunk if you ever grown it, it grows kind of medium height and it's a single cola with a
very thick stem. I mean so like the theory that it would be part of the Chem Dog, with the Chem
Dog making a sour diesel, the growth structure is just is way off. You know what I'm saying?
Like if you ever if you've grown Chem 91 next to sour diesel, like this the growth that the
sativa growth on the sour diesel is just, you know, you've grown it. I don't have to tell you how it grows.
Yeah, yeah. It's 19 days from Chem 91, sure. Right, so if the theory of the super skunk went into it,
where does all that sativa growth come from? I mean, unless it's a recessive trait, but I kind
of disagree with that because I've grown the DNL that I think that is part of the sour diesel and
it grows exactly the same. Just that really stretchy sativa, you have to top it off and
branch it out and everything. So that's just my view. Yeah, I agree with your DNL and I saw a lot
of sour traits in it as well. I would agree with that. Right, and I thought and I was gonna ask
you that because I thought a while back that you had grown some of those DNL crosses and I wanted
to get your opinion on it. I thought it was dank, dude. I love that shit. Yeah, I still sitting on some
beans. I haven't brought them out in a long time. But I got so many different things I've been
working on that I don't know. I got to try to get into it soon, especially with all this skunk
controversies that are going on. And that's speaking of controversies over this whole thing
with fucking giraffe neck. Dick neck, yeah. Yeah, I mean, you know, if I was skunk VA, I would have just ripped his head off right there on the spot. I'm surprised he didn't. Yeah, that dude is just like a mellow dude. And he's the kind of dude that once he snaps, like, I mean, he's got, he's got his arms are the size of my thighs.
Like Popeye. He's like a wrestler. He's like, I mean, like, I couldn't believe what joint joint breath on the suck his dick or something online.
Yeah, but there was he went up to his booth, and they had some kind of conversation and then he came outside. And I was in a circle with the swamp wars. And Bronson was there. And he just like fucking lost his mind. Yeah, I mean, I thought I was gonna have to fight him at first. But then I but then I became like his therapist.
I kind of had like a shred of sympathy for the guy. He was standing one jail and everyone hates him and how he wants to be accepted and all this other bullshit. You were the voice of reason. Usually you're swinging up.
Yeah.
I mean, I'm not saying that to be a hater, I'll give you my opinion. And I told them, like, Hey, listen, if you had something that great, I would congratulate. Yeah, for sure.
I mean, he's just thinking that everyone's saying shit
to be a hater.
I'm giving you my honest opinion.
And everyone that I talked to that was in that expo,
that saw that stuff, was just like, you know what I mean?
Yeah, he brought it to Emerald Cup, too.
And it was, and the people that touched
the underside of the jar got some orange shit
on their fingers that smelled like real skunk.
Right, right.
So I mean, he didn't have any of that going on, but.
Poor fella.
He's charting in dangerous territories
fucking around with Duke and Skunky.
Yeah.
I would've tangled with either one of those dudes, man.
We'll see what happens at the next show.
Yeah, right?
Let it boil over a little bit.
But, you know, and then there's all these other guys
that were, say, they had the roadkill.
And I had the original Super Skunk back in like 1995.
And let me tell you, when you just crack that jaw,
it just permeated.
And then I had gotten a cut years later.
It was just, this wasn't the same.
It didn't give out those same kind of turds or whatever.
I don't know if it was a different cut or the, you know.
Cuts just dud out after a while.
They do, yeah.
And it's starting to happen with the sour diesel,
because everyone asks me, oh, where's that sour diesel at?
You know, with that old time sour diesel.
And you got to figure it, that's like 25 years.
That's how long that cut is now.
So and it's just been given, you know, from person to person,
from room to room.
And I think, you know, cuts adapt to the room
that they're in.
So, you know, your sour diesel is
going to come out different than my sour diesel now.
You start giving out cuts and I start giving out cuts, you know.
After a while, I think there could be, you know,
some type of genetic drift that, you know, might happen.
Not anything drastically, but, you know,
there just seems to be these small subtle things
that seem to be missing from the sour nowadays.
Sure, yeah.
I mean, acclimates from room to room to room to room.
And that thing's so fucking old.
Yeah.
Right.
We had, you know, the original underdog,
which was super skunk NL times a 91.
It just went bad on us.
I mean, we had the cut.
And then after a while, it just it only showed glimmers of itself,
you know, when it was really, really good.
And it was still, you know, the harvest went down.
It was harder to clone and everything.
And then after a while, my phone was like he gave to me,
I did a little bit of work with it and my phone was like, listen,
I'm just going to let it go.
Yeah.
But we just let it go, you know, and that was it.
But I've heard and I remember just buying from buying weed.
There's this stuff called the wheelchair, the wheelchair.
And back in the day, that shit, you know, was good and dumb.
And then the same thing after a while, you just could not get the same batches
just from buying it after a while.
And the same people were growing it and everything.
But what's the wheelchair?
Just.
I'm not sure it was just some type of
local strain that was sold in New York City.
OK, you know, back in the 90s, you know, back then we didn't really have,
you know, names weren't really, you know, the thing that they are now.
So, yeah, I have no idea what it was.
So let's talk about I-95.
Yeah, I think I've seen some I think I've seen some stuff referenced
like as the wheelchair or the crippler or something like that.
And I'm going to have to really find out, you know, where that really came from.
But I think that, you know, that stuff came from Amsterdam back back in the day.
I sure did. Yeah.
Let's talk about I-95.
That's that's this.
Yeah. And that was the other one that I wanted to talk about.
Let's talk about the history of it. All of it.
You know, that's a Money Mike strain.
And originally he bred that back in like 2014.
We brought it to the Denver Cup.
The last Denver Cup was 2014.
And we and we brought that. It was
it was a legend, star dog, male times
the triangle. Yeah.
So he bred that, we brought that out
and we were friends with Tara Rojo
and we went over to Mindful and he gave us a tour.
And, you know, and so we gave him some seeds.
I gave him some star dog seeds.
He got some I-95 seeds.
And, you know, we you know, we're just trying, you know, to help the guy.
Yeah, just being nice.
Right. Not knowing.
Well, you know, going further back,
he had invited us to share his booth
in one of the first few Denver Cups.
It might have been 2011.
You know what I mean? So, you know, we, you know, I always, you know,
respected Phil and, you know, thanked him for, you know, helping us and everything.
And so, you know, we gave him seeds to play with and stuff.
And so, you know, he grew those seeds out.
And then see, this is where it starts getting kind of fudgy because.
He I know when I confronted him, you know, he says, you know,
that he had started the seeds
and left Mindful or I'm not really sure.
But we gave the seeds to Phil.
You know what I mean? And then before we know it,
one of his workers, Matt Ross,
started a seed company basically with the seeds that we gave Phil.
Correct. Yeah.
Now Phil claims that he
he stole them from Mindful, took them out
and started playing with them at his house and all.
But, you know, we held Phil responsible for that.
And he claims that.
But, you know, he like
he hired the same guy to run some kind of, you know,
get some kind of job in Chicago. Yeah.
So to me, I think that, you know, he kind of set him up
to kind of be the bad guy.
And while Phil spread those genetics all through his
is, you know, his dealings with a. Yeah.
And so he's got the a good thing and he does, you know, other smaller stuff
on the side.
Yeah, I mean, like I know, you know, you got some stuff in Baltimore,
Maryland and Pennsylvania, and I don't know if those are acreage
related or not, but I do know they're running the I-95 Chem D.
Yeah. Those guys made.
And and then, you know, so, you know, they did that.
And then we had Elite, the Elite guys, which those guys are friends of ours.
Yeah, they're good friends of mine, too.
And, you know, they took a pack of I-95
and, you know, they did the same thing.
I mean, they bought them.
I mean, but then, you know, they saw what
what these guys did with it.
And they and they started doing the same crosses that they.
But they didn't sell it.
They didn't sell them, but they were giving them away.
Yeah. But just even doing giving them away, you're trying to make a name
for yourself.
I mean, in the way that I look at it is if, you know, if you buy
if you're given a pack of I-95 Chem D,
you think you're ever going to buy one from me?
You know what I mean? The chances are not.
Did you guys ever release the I-95 Chem D or the I-95 publicly?
Oh, yeah. I'm selling them now.
Oh, I didn't know that.
Because, yes, I'm selling them now.
So everybody go grab your I-95 Chem D from JJ.
Top Dog Seeds right here.
Well, basically, I took
I took F2s from them guys.
And then I mean, not F1s.
Well, they gave me F1s and I made F2s with them.
But then I started
crossing into some of the different other strains.
And then Money Mike also did a remake of his
I-95 into the Chem D and made the Chem
the D-95s.
So that's Money Mike's cake on it.
Yeah. And my cake was on it was just an F2 on it.
So I took their. Yeah.
And then I took their original that Chem
that the Chem D
the Chem D leaning
Pheno is the one that I F2'd at that I had gotten.
But I had they had I mean, and I went over there with those.
And when after Phil left and
Matt and his brother Jackson both gave me seeds,
gave me buds, told me how much they loved me.
You know, the whole thing.
And then and then he went around and did that.
Yeah. And then Wave Gem did the same exact thing.
They came up to our booth in Boston
and told us how much they loved us and blah, blah, blah.
And Money Mike wanted to punch the guy out because he was playing around with
you know, he was getting into dangerous territory at that time.
And I told him, you know, you better just back off.
And, you know, I mean, you're getting a little bit too close.
Yeah. I mean, and then he got all stupid and did the same thing.
So everyone tells you they love you, how much they respect you, this and that.
Come and kiss your ass.
They get your gear and they want to be like you.
And they just go in, just, you know, just try to copy all the work that you've done.
Yeah. And.
So, you know, it just needs to be a,
you know, common trait, you know what I mean?
And, you know, on Instagram.
Yeah, it's a different world, at least on the forums, like people would get called out
all the time by a lot of people, you know what I mean?
Yeah, but, you know, now, you know, it's just as easy to just block someone.
No one really has the respect or
the decency anymore.
You know, back in the day, it was a lot different.
It was a lot different than now.
I've never heard of that wavegen.
Is that a new company?
Just some some guys, I think there were some kid that was out of Rhode Island,
Rhode Island, and he's up there in Maine now.
All right. I'll keep my eye out.
I want to give you a wave or wavegen or wavegen genetics.
He's changed his name a few times.
He's gotten deleted, you know.
And then you got Greenpoint, another one.
You know what I mean?
And he took the I-95, he took the Stardog, he did the same thing.
This guy right here.
Wavegenetics.
Wavegenetics.
All right.
Yeah, someone put it up.
Wavegenetics.
That's that's the guy.
So, hey, I got a question for you.
A lot of people don't know what DNL is in the first place.
Can you go over it for people?
Well, as far as I know, the DNL originally originated was the RFK skunk,
which the the the weasel Mike and Gabby went down to a dead show at RFK and scored a bag of kind bud and found,
I don't know, like eight or ten seeds or whatever.
So they both agreed to split the seeds.
And when they did it, they actually put all the seeds out on the table and they each one by one.
I picked this one.
I picked that one.
I picked this one.
I picked that one.
And when the weasel and he wound up getting three different phenos.
And that's when I first met him in Central Park.
He was so strong.
One strong to strong.
Three.
That's what he called them.
And then a friend of his wound up getting like some type of some NLC and some Hawaiian seeds.
Yeah.
And that he wound up having those seeds and he gave him one of some of those RFK clones.
And so he made his own stream, combining the three.
And he just called it the NL.
But, you know, it might have had some NL in it, but it was mostly sativa dominant in structure.
Yeah.
And, you know, and the Hawaiian, it kind of had these tropical, like,
tropical, stonky tones a little bit.
You know what I mean?
Kind of you get you get little bits, you know, you could taste in a sour sometimes.
You know what I mean?
So, you know, so that was a strain that he grew exclusively.
And I think that he gave it back to the weasel to grow.
And that's what I suspect was in the room when, you know, those seeds were made original.
Well, what weren't made, but were found originally in the 91 because, I mean,
you know, I used to sell weed for the weasel.
He grew it.
I sold it.
But he had a few, he had Vondo and there were a few other people that were that would weasel
in and try to to buy it because it was it was like a race because I would, you know,
he would only get like a couple of pounds.
So it was like, you know, you just had to grab everything that he had at the time,
just cash him out.
And this way you had control of all of that because, you know, back in the day,
people would just come in and just want to buy it all.
And I would be like, I can't sell it to you all because, you know, I like to spread it out.
And I would sell to other people that did me favors.
You know, you know, when I get something, you know, I'll hit you off.
You can make some money.
Just do me a favor, you know, get me, you know, save me this or that.
You could use it as a bartering tool to, you know, get other favors from people.
Sure.
Wait, do you know if the RFK is still around or is that long gone?
No, that's been long gone.
Yeah.
And then really recently they lost the DNL within the last like two years or so.
So I mean, that's why I was thinking about trying to, you know,
fall back on some of those seeds I've made.
Yeah, dude.
And see if I could pull anything out that's like the original.
That would be real cool.
Real cool.
Because really, I wanted to try to reverse that into the 91 and see what would happen.
Yeah.
When I first started growing in like 99, you know, I had been selling wheat for a long time.
And anytime I had some anything that was super killing, I found seeds.
I would see them.
I mean, yeah.
And then at one time I had a really bad ass collection from the 80s and all that.
And the cops took it.
I got busted.
Bucket pigs.
And the cops wound up taking it.
So I wound up starting a new one.
And then so I started that one.
And when I started getting the chem dog, you know, every once in a while you might find a
seed or two in there.
So I would see them.
And so when I started, I popped a few of those seeds.
And really back then there was no really such thing as the sow.
Yeah.
But, you know, but, you know, looking back, I had found some stuff that was very sour,
like very sourish, you know what I mean?
And I remember I had, I had something happened.
I think that we were, we were, we had the closed down the grow, whatever.
And I had just popped these seeds and I sexed them.
And I gave them and I gave the clone to my friend and I was like, listen, I was like,
I said, the only thing I know that this is like, you know, came from out of the chem dog.
And I gave it to him and he grew it out and that became the guava, but not the guava of today.
I gotcha.
And he, so he called that cut the guava, but it was kind of very sourish and all that.
And he ran it and then eventually lost it, you know what I mean?
And then years later, I wound up doing the star dog and I had gifted my friend some seeds
to give to Andre Grossman, the photographer of High Times.
And he, he grew them out and he found a pheno that was today's guava.
So what happened was somehow, well, he, well, what happened was they liked that cut so much
and at the time they had High Times, they had the Kyle Cushman strawberry call.
Yeah.
And they actually had a plant, they had a plant in the office and like anyone that went into the
office, if they liked you enough, they would cut you a couple of clones right off the plant in the
office and let you go home with it.
So, so eventually the same thing happened with the guava and, and both the guava and
the strawberry coffee came the, the office strains.
So years later, like I was saying, the same guy that named the guava tells me that he got the
guava, he got the guava back.
So we eventually find out that it comes full circle back from the High Times guys.
And so like that was how, you know, the guava kind of got its name of today though.
But it was originally some type of sour chem something, the original cut, but I remember it,
and it was very sour diesel.
Like, I don't think, well, I didn't get to ever finish it out actually.
Well, one of them I did and then another one I didn't, you know, I mean, I did get to finish
one out, but then I had popped another seed and that was the seed that I gave my friend.
But it came from the same batch though of seeds.
Now, was the Stardot guava similar in terms or anything to the other guava?
Not really.
I mean, the guava of today is more chem four-ish.
One of my things like the chem four.
Whereas the other one was more kind of 91-ish.
Yeah.
A little more fuel, a little more fuel, soury fuel, the original one was.
Do you still have any of those old, the purple Afghan cross?
I think you did a purple Stardot with it.
With the purple Stardot with what?
I think it was British Empire's purple Afghan.
Yeah, I did.
I never really, I never popped any of those seeds.
I do, I'm sitting on them and I think I did some into the chem D also.
Oh, wow.
And I think I did some into the original haze too.
Those all could be real, that Afghan original haze could be fucking real interesting.
I wound up flowering out some of that stuff and some of it was green and some of it was purple
just by semantics, you know, and I wound up using a male and, you know, I fucked up and never made
F2s out of that, you know, but I do have that just, just the crosses into the Stardot and the chem D.
Yeah, that would be fascinating to see pop back up.
Yeah, but the purple Stardot that I made, you know, the purple came from the trade dog male
and the purple probably came from the Afghan and that Afghan was a Sensi seed Afghan.
The old Afghani one?
Afghan one, yeah.
And I think, you know, looking back into that, that wasn't really like a true
cultivar as in one strain.
I think it was a mix of their best Afghanis or something like that.
And even like looking back into the, the, the, the maple leaf, I think even like the
maple leaf really wasn't really, really like one stable strain.
I think there were a variety of different phenos in there because if you, if you look back into
the seed, the seed bank catalog, they actually offer that like a 50 pack or something like that.
And it's more of like a breeders, you know what I mean?
They don't really, you know what I mean?
But it sounded like, you know, there was, you know, a lot of different, different varieties
in there, but the one guy that they talk about, maple leaf, whoever they called one guy, maple
leaf, was, you know, the phenos that he was growing at the time.
So I guess all that was based off his stuff.
You know, I've always found that a lot of the stuff that was listed as maple leaf indica,
like that was used, tend to look like the Afghani one.
So I don't know if they have similar parentage that way back up.
I think, you know, because I look back and I think, you know, if you look into the catalogs
on the Afghani one, it says it's like a mix of the three or four best Afghanis or whatever,
you know, but when I grew it, it kind of, it grew very fast stemmed, single cola,
kind of short, medium height.
And it didn't really have a really, the turps on it weren't really super strong.
It was kind of subtle.
Yeah.
So that's why I figured it'd be a good outcross to go into the chem because it wouldn't be
dominant, you know, because it kind of had like a kind of a medicine, a little medicine
potting thing up into it, you know, it was decent.
Yeah.
I mean, I smoked the flower, but, you know, it wasn't anything that would compare to the
chem dog, but the structure, you know, definitely added, you know, because it gave you that
really thick stem, you know, and all the, all the, the calyx, the blood ratio, you know,
there wasn't much leaf on that.
So you were, you were one of the first guys I saw from not necessarily the modern era,
but prior to the modern era that was actually using like the Northern lights, the super
skunks, the Afghani one, shit like that.
And that always inspired me to go in that direction for those baselines.
So I appreciate that.
Yeah.
Well, I was always a big sense, you see fan back in the day.
Yeah.
I mean, their genetics are not the same.
Unfortunately,
But, you know, but if you're looking back, most of that stuff they got from that,
I mean, that stuff was seed bank stuff that, you know, when Neville was in jail and, you
know, they bailed him out and, you know, they gave him money or whatever.
So I'm pretty sure that that was the story behind that.
Yeah.
Some of the best stuff there is as far as baselines go.
I think if people don't grow that stuff, they won't have an idea of a lot of the traits
and modern stuff like they're, they don't have a good base knowledge.
And looking back, like I know people, you know, that have talked to the drunkards and
they've admitted that they've lost all their mother.
Yeah.
But, you know, someone like Adam Dunn, he was working, you know, with them back in the
nineties.
And so he knows firsthand a lot of that stuff that went on.
But, you know, he, you know, he left after he left.
That's where, you know, and then I don't know who else was doing it.
I don't know who else was doing the breathing back in the nineties.
I'm not sure.
But, you know, because you should be able to get those cellophane cord packs.
Yeah.
And then they upgraded to the box with the bubble.
Yeah.
The box in the bubble.
All that stuff was junk and leading up, leading up until today, because my friend, he had
bought a pack of Jack Herrera, like, you know, the year it won the cup or whatever.
And, you know, he grew it out, you know, I was selling the weed and after a while, they
just kind of people got sick of it.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
They told him to stop doing it.
He's like, oh, don't worry.
I'll kill it.
I still have the whole pack left.
You know, years later, I said, hey, why don't you look for that pack?
Well, I lost it.
I mean, so then I was able to grab a pack of the boxes and I gave him a pack of the
Jack Herrera and he grew it out.
This was it wasn't the same.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, it was really it was junk.
And I think really by then, that's when a lot of people started outsourcing to.
Yeah.
And a lot of that stuff comes back, you know, it's kind of like.
Jack, Jack to it, but it's, you know, grows very sativa like, but, you know, it's kind
of wispy and I don't know, I just call it generic answer.
Yeah.
And like even like Adam says, you know, like the Jack itself is like, I don't know, like
a 12 way, you know, a 12 way cross or something.
Four things that just cross back into each other and after a while, this becomes like,
you know, a genetic like mess.
Yeah.
Where this comes is just very generic in in what it's producing.
It comes a muddled mess.
Right.
It looks like we've got a minute left.
Anything else you want to add?
No, we got into pretty much everything.
I'm surprised we're able to squeeze it in.
I know, dude.
Well, hey, it's a pleasure having you on.
You're one of the best.
Thank you very much, man.
Appreciate it.
I'm glad we were able to go over these things and just, you know, iron out some of the confusion
that might have been out there.
Yeah, sure, man.
Appreciate it.
Talk soon, brother.
All right, man.
Peace out.
Peace out.
Want more Breeder Syndicate?
Be sure to check out our Patreon by going to Google and searching Breeder Syndicate Patreon.
We have a secret Discord where we are available at most times and interact daily.
There are a lot of perks to be had there, so check it out.
Need seeds?
Check out riotseeds.com where you can get our seeds and our reversal spray for making your
own feminized seeds.
