Welcome to Breeder's Syndicate, where we explore the history of a clandestine scene
through the eyes of the folks who lived it.
I'm Matthew, owner of Riot Seeds.
I'll occasionally be joined by my co-host, NotSoDog, breeder and grower from Mendocino.
Welcome to the underground.
All right, so tonight I was thinking about maybe we could talk about breeding A to Z,
in the form of, like, maybe I'll give you a set of traits that I want out of an end
goal.
So, just teaching people to start using goals in breeding.
Right.
I'll give you traits for an end goal, hypothetical end goal, and you build it with, in your hypothetical
toolbox, what have you, and you talk about the ways you would go about this project.
And then vice the verse, you can give me some surprise traits, and then I'll do that
with a feminized version of whatever you give me.
You sound like you're underwater today.
I don't know what the deal is.
Is it coming clear for everyone or just you?
I don't know.
Maybe we could ask who's fucking on right now.
Can you guys hear him super clear or is he muffled?
How we sound in...
Testing, testing, one, two, three.
I didn't use the cool microphone and shit this round because I thought it was just not
doing anything different, but maybe that's why.
Maybe that's why.
Okay, we'll hear it, Claire.
Okay.
Well, maybe it's just me, so I'll suffer.
You suffer through it.
I'll suffer through it.
Okay.
So, yeah, so I'm going to...
So basically, it's like one of the...
Maybe I'll throw, like, my spiel on it or whatever, but for a minute there, probably
the last five to seven years, especially, there was like this explosion of seed making,
right?
And you know, we've talked amongst about it's probably like, maybe even to the point where
like 90% of the current people selling seeds started in that era.
Yeah.
Right?
And so in that time, like there was this big explosion of monetary value and all that.
And so that economics changed how people bred.
Yeah.
A lot.
But certainly a lot of people, right?
And like what used to be like side projects, you know, that could take some time or have
goals ended up being like mashing a lot of famous things together.
Yeah.
Not that there's anything wrong with that, right?
But it just changed the dynamic of like, you know, a lot of multi-stage breeding kind of
went like to the wayside.
Yeah, it sure did.
It sure did.
Right.
And so what we're talking about this evening is sort of like, you know, I mean, I guess
you can get lucky and just knock it out of the park one step, but for the most part,
like it would be a multi-stage process to get to where you want.
Yeah.
I mean, over several years, over several, several years, it's really hard to knock it
out of the park consistently all the time, unless you're doing certain kinds of fem breeding
of known clone to known clone, you know, but yeah.
Yeah.
You know, and so, you know, one of the benefits of like what's happening right now in the
community might be that like the people that do decide to keep breeding people are into
like longer projects.
Yeah.
You know, and so it used to be there was a minute there where people would be like, well,
you can't get Skittles and you can't get Chem 91, but if I make a hybrid, maybe you'll
buy that.
Yeah.
Right.
And so rather than like Skittles has these things that I want, and so does Chem 91.
And is there a way I can blend these two things and eventually end up with this plant that
has the best of both worlds?
Yeah.
Right.
I mean, that's still like if I can blend these two things, I guess that's still an end goal.
If you have an end goal of what you think they might end up at in the end, but that's
still kind of like the process, the beginning process of making crosses.
It's just like, hey, plant A, plant B, I want the best of both.
Let's see what happens.
You know, but having an end goal where you're like, I want this plant to end up like this
for this environment, for this, this XYZ is super detailed.
You know?
Yeah.
Well, I mean, it depends on how similar you want them to be.
Like you might only care about like, for instance, a couple of the traits that you're trying
to combine and not need it to be like this.
Obviously, like the more things you're trying to achieve, the more difficult it becomes.
But if, you know, a simple way to think about it would be like, what if I want to combine
the terps from this plant with the potency of this other one?
Then you're only searching for two things.
Right?
So it can be defined by your goals too.
Yeah.
Right.
In that regard.
I just think about it so differently.
I don't even think that like, to me that I don't consider that it's goals, but it's not
what I'm necessarily referring to when I say goals.
Sure.
Because one is I predict, I want an outcome, desired outcome, and I'm picking many, I'm
picking from my library to make that outcome happen.
And the other is still, I'm going to hit these together and try to get the best out of what
results.
Based on what I know.
I'm not saying one is more legitimate.
I'm just saying that like, you know, it's like a little bit different to try to create
like a line that has certain traits.
Yeah.
And what I'm going to ask you to do is going to be the hard one.
It's going to be the hard one.
And then on top of that too, like, you know, it's kind of interesting, but like if you
have breeders, Matt's one, you know, like that have been at it for a long time and that
keep certain plants around quite a long time, right?
Like our buddy Caleb or Flight or whoever, right?
What they get to do is the more you breed, you actually get to start to see which traits
of the plant that you breed with follow up in the kids.
Yeah.
There's some really amazing cuts out there that suck as breeders.
Yes.
Very much so.
Like the individual cut itself is amazing.
It's great smoke and all that, but it's not a stable or a solid thing.
Yeah.
And then there's other things that just seem to breed true for certain characteristics
almost no matter what.
Yeah.
There's a lot that are just shit growers that people normally wouldn't keep, but are amazing
breeders and don't breed for the traits they visually express.
Like somebody just said, yes, terpeneline is very hard to breed out.
Yeah.
Once it's in there, boy, it's really difficult finding what you want without it in there.
It really dominates.
Yeah, it does.
She throws her weight around, you know?
And that's interesting too because there's aspects where it's like, since I'm going to
do the hard one, you know, what used to be fucked up about breeding, especially if it
took multi-stage is that you have to make sure that you save seeds from every stage.
Yes.
Because you can totally fuck up a line and do something that you didn't want to do and
it's a real bummer.
And if you don't have a way to go back one generation and go in a different direction,
then you're just stuck with that mistake.
Yeah, definitely.
And I don't think most people, when they think about breeding, realize that they would ever
have to go back a generation.
I don't think that even comes into the equation in their minds.
I know it didn't when I was young.
Oh yeah.
I mean, it can be.
I'll just fix it.
I'll just fix it more.
Most of our friends wish they had, there's at least one project they did that they really
like that they feel like they fucked up a bit along the way and they wish they could
go back and redo, you know?
So he feels like DJ did that.
DJ's stuff is his own story in itself.
It's unique.
But, you know, I mean, there's an aspect of like different people have worked his stuff
in different directions at different times.
He's given it over to seed companies and then gotten back seed stock.
So it definitely is like what era you got it from.
It could vary quite a bit.
Yeah, that's for sure.
I would say so.
Yeah.
You know, so, you know, but yeah, I mean, there's an aspect of like, I think for like
most hobby breeders, really, having some kind of goal is probably good.
You know, because I tell people all the time, like the most important thing of what you're
doing is that like you're happy with it.
Yeah.
Right.
In the end, that's it.
Well, yeah, I mean, for a long time we bred, we just tried to breed weed that we like to
smoke.
Yeah.
Because it was long enough ago that like we just never really felt like any kind of seed
company was even realistic.
Yeah, I never thought ever about getting a famous seed company ever in the history of
my company.
Yeah, I mean, when we were breeding in the 90s and early 2000s and stuff like that, like
the people that started seed companies back then literally still went to Europe.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
You had to go there to make it big.
So it was like a massive life shit.
Like it was, you know, so a lot of us, we just bred, we just bred for ourselves.
Yeah.
You know, now it's cool with Instagram, you know, and all these different various platforms,
you can do some, a lot of people can do small breeding and then offer it up and reach people.
Yeah.
And so there's this commercialism aspect that was like hard before.
So like before, a lot of times people were trying to just please themselves and their
buddies.
And now it's more like please the public, which is fine.
And there was a certain era too, where it wasn't even just please the public.
It was a much smaller crowd and it was please the forum crowd.
You know what I mean?
Oh, yeah, sure.
It was an era of, well, it may not be what I like, but it's what sells on the forums.
And even that is a vast difference from what sells on Instagram now, you know?
So I think that was a different era.
I remember those eras and what was hot and like the pressure to breed with all that work
because it's just people want it.
And I mean, you know, there's even posts from Neville when he was posting in like 2009 or
2010 that even in the 80s and early 90s, he would get shit for everybody would be like,
oh, I want the purest indica imaginable.
Yeah.
He'd release something that was like that and then they would suffer and yield and he
would get endless bitching.
Yeah.
So there's always been a commercial aspect of it, you know?
And then you end up having to like, you end up having to please people.
So in some ways, all my friends, anybody that breeds for non-commercial purposes, you just
get to do whatever the fuck you want.
Well, in this case, you're going to do what the customer wants.
Oh my God.
OK, here we go.
So this is a rather picky customer, right?
It's something that obviously has to work in the modern market since this is 2022.
They want something with eight weeks flowering.
They don't want none of that long flowering shit that you love.
They want eight weeks flowering.
They want a little bit of purple, right?
Little bit of purple.
The most important thing that they're missing in their arsenal is black licorice mixed with
gas.
They want some gassy back end on it and black licorice.
And like I said, modern market and they don't want any OG or cookies.
They want unique.
Oh man.
So where do we start to please this customer?
They don't want any OG or cookies.
So right there, right?
That makes it everybody just heard like they want like six different things.
Yes.
In the same line so that everything you add potentially makes it harder or longer of a
search to try to figure it out.
Or you have to get luckier to find it quick.
Or you have to have a large library that you're very familiar with, you know.
That helps too because obviously like if you know how your plants breed, that could narrow
it down a bunch.
That would be helpful like for me.
But if you were just trying to smash plants together to find that aspect, it would probably
be pretty rough.
And so basically what they want is something that's pretty funny.
They want quick purple.
They want good turps.
Frosty is shit.
Because it has to be in the modern market.
Frosty is shit.
Oh my God.
It's a modern market.
They need something that washes.
They need something that washes.
No OG either.
Not just cookies.
No OG.
No OG and no cookies.
They're trying to turn that corner like Berner is doing.
And they want it to be feminized or regular?
No, you're doing regular.
Oh my God.
You're going to do the same for me in reverse with feminized and you can pick the traits.
That is horrible.
Yeah.
He just fucked me.
He just fucked me.
So the hard part obviously is that, okay, so just break it down, right?
You need something frosty, turpy, fairly attractive.
You need it to come in relatively quickly.
And the hardest one out of all that is probably like the black licorice turps.
Because that's pretty specific and fucking rare.
And then the other part of it that sucks, you know, is that it has to be a regular seed
line.
Yeah.
It has to be a regular seed line.
So in that regard, what you would have to do is you would either...
It can be a multi-step process.
Well, yeah.
I mean, so that's what I'm saying is like you would end up, you know, one of your first
steps probably would be like you would have to figure out what kind of male you wanted
to use.
And then you would cross it to, you know, one of the females that you want to use and
start there.
And then you have a male, female blend.
Because now at first you need a pollen source.
Yes.
Right.
That was one of the attractiveness of fucking everybody like doing feminizes because they
can create their own pollen source.
And they knew pretty much what traits were going to probably pass because they could
smell their pollen source and look at the bud.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So there's basically there's a way to where it's like, you know, once you once you...
That's where all like the BX or BC is people talking about.
Like that's where it started.
Yeah.
Is people needed a pollen donor to start working on their line idea.
And then they could start playing with it once they had pollen, they could make pollen
every generation.
Yeah.
Is really what it boils down to.
So realistically speaking, probably what I would end up doing is that...
My buddy is throwing me off by answering.
But what I would probably do is I would cheat and I would...
My buddy that just made me laugh, him and I made some a bunch of hybrids with some old
maple leaf indica seeds from the early 2000s.
And one of the things that we did is we crossed it to the Mendo-P.
Okay.
So the Mendo-P has some color.
It's got crazy turps.
It doesn't wash that well or anything like that.
But at the very least, it's something old and basic that you could start with.
Yes.
Yeah.
Right.
So one of the things you need to start with is like an idea of how you're going to start
and how you're going to finish.
Yes.
Right.
Because whatever you finish with, the cross is 50% that.
Yes.
You know, and so you're starting and your ending is 50-50 and in the middle you get
to play.
Yeah.
Right.
So, and it's not potent.
Yeah, no.
I mean, that's the thing is you're starting with limitations.
We don't need it.
I don't believe potency was a part of it because in today's market, you can wash it and everything's
potent.
So it's not a part of the equation.
So probably what I would do is I would take that maple leaf endicot by Mendo Perps, right?
And I would grow it out and I would pick a male, probably one that leaned like in leaf
structure and all that.
And especially one that turned colors on its male flowers and stuff.
And I would probably pick the most Mendo Perp leaning male I possibly could.
Yeah.
Which should be relatively easy because the maple doesn't turn colors and the leaf structure
is way different.
Right?
And Mendo P kicks certain kinds of Terps, doesn't it?
And Mendo P kicks certain kinds of Terps.
Right?
So, well, the other two is that it's like a basic indica that I started with and then
you cross it to something extremely unique.
So hopefully you can pick out a bunch of that unique, right?
In your male, which makes it a lot easier than if it was like two similar things.
So, take some pollen of that and I would probably throw it on something like the snow.
Ooh, interesting.
I wouldn't have thought of that choice.
That's an interesting one.
Yeah.
Well, the reason is, is that when I was doing that project down south, you know, I got to
run a lot of Caleb's gear.
And I probably ran half a dozen snow hybrids.
And the shit just consistently kicks nice, pretty colas covered in frost.
It shortens up the flower time and all that.
So, you know, the Mendo P would bring some color and some Terps.
The snow would bring structure and crystal and like a nice look.
Yeah, that's a good choice.
And I've seen it work consistently on a bunch of hybrids already.
Throw the kind of traits through a bunch of different crosses that I like.
So the chance that it could do that in this one is probably reasonably high.
I think so.
So, boom, now I have a snow by maple by purple.
Yeah.
Right.
So you grow up that.
Now it's more complicated because you're looking for traits.
So now probably what you're doing is because it's not going to be as easy to visually pick
it out.
It would probably get shitty and you'd probably end up picking like three of the nicest males
you could find.
And separately pollinating like the female of your choice.
Then you grow them all out and you see which of those three hopefully passed the most traits
that you were looking for.
Because there's an aspect with males where you're like really not going to know.
You know, so the wider male pool you use, the better.
Yeah.
As long as you can isolate it and see which one goes to which.
Yeah, for the sake of this argument, not to get like crazy esoteric and stupid.
I would just say three triplets.
And so now I have a snowmendo pea maple.
And so I take a male of that, or three males of that.
And I hit it each separately to my Maui.
Because the Maui is-
You're bringing the Maui.
Well, the Maui turns purple in the cold.
It's super frosty.
It's got chunks all over it.
It's done in eight weeks.
So now you've got a quick maple, a quick mendo pea, a quick Maui.
You know, the snow's reasonably quick.
So all of a sudden you start upping your chances that like a Fino that you want is going to
be in that 50 to 60 day range of what you're going for, I guess.
Right?
Yeah.
So now the Maui turns a little purple and the mendo pea's purple.
You don't have a lot of purple in there, but you have some.
Definitely.
And you can start looking for it.
And the snow and the Maui end up having like, you know, the structure and the frost.
So then I would hunt through that.
But that's, let's see.
So maple onto the mendo pea, that's one stage.
And then that onto the snow, that's two stages.
And then a male out of that onto the Maui, you're already at three stages.
Yeah.
You know?
And where's your gas coming in?
Where's my gas coming in?
Boy, you know, the gas is going to be hard, I think, because I think right there you probably
have your, your, wait, you said gas and?
Yes.
Gas and licorice?
Fuck, dude, that's fucking hard.
And you're going to have to do this.
What if I just pick one?
I'm just going to pick one and you're going to have to deal with it.
Yeah, yeah, we could do one.
We could try one.
Okay, so now we have a long process as is.
Now we have a like, what is it like?
It's like a four way hybrid now.
It's like, yeah, maple, maple started the pollen, maple, mendo, and snow and Maui.
Yeah.
So if we wanted, if we wanted, now it's going to be 50% of the cross, right?
So we have a bunch of early shit, a bunch of frosty shit, a couple purple things.
If I really wanted to jack up the purple and the licorice, I only have one thing I could
do, I could put it on the anise.
Yes.
But then that would be, but then I would be, that would be fucked because then there would
be the chance that you would also get gas would be kind of hard.
The anus.
The anus, the star anus, you know, because black licorice is really hard.
So I don't think to be perfectly honest, we're not going for gas anymore.
We're just dropping that, going for all black licorice and modern.
People are talking about Jaeger, the anus is actually extremely close to the Jaeger.
The fish, Oh, somebody just said the fishermen who the fuck just said the fishermen.
That's why.
What's that one?
What's that one?
So my buddy, my buddy and I, we used to grow a bunch of anus together and he used to take
it down to the bay and give it to certain crews.
Right.
And he's a professional tuna fisherman.
Yeah.
So they used to call, they used to call when we sold them that way, they used to call it
the fisherman.
Nice.
Because my buddy's nickname was actually tuna.
Tuna.
Oh, yeah.
Was he in the movie Blow?
No, he was not in the movie Blow.
But he, but yeah, I mean, he's actually like, you know, he's actually a big part of that
story really.
But yeah, the, the fisherman, he, that was probably back in 06 or something like that.
So just so people know, right, like, I didn't even talk about like, you can get really lucky
in what I described and you could do it all in that many steps.
Or you could grow shit out and realize it's not at all what you want and want to go back
a step.
Yeah, that's like a best case scenario right there.
Yeah, that definitely is a best case scenario.
You know, because that that's assuming that like each stage, and then you could talk for
a little bit about like, well, how many?
Yeah.
You know, because every cross you have a female is the certainty.
But does the male pass what you want of the hybrid?
That's why I always call it the shotgun method.
Yeah, you call it the shotgun method.
And it's right.
But like what people used to do in the old days is they would, they would cross like
their three, every stage, they would cross their three favorite males.
To the same female and mark them different.
And then when you grow them out, you look, yeah, whatever one gave you the best females,
you picked males from that, that donation.
You know what I'm saying?
Yeah.
You know, because you were because that was the way that we tested back then.
If you just did one male, you're just hoping.
Three isn't even all that great.
But it's like, let's be reasonable about people's ability to actually do shit, you know?
Yeah, yeah.
So, you know, and then, you know, it doesn't, I mean, it doesn't have to be huge.
It just depends on everybody's size.
It depends on what you're trying to do.
You know, 50 or 100 seeds held back is probably plenty for most people's purposes.
Yeah, yeah.
You know, stick with.
And then you'd probably and then you'd right there, you'd probably have a situation that
would be there would be plenty of purple plants, there would be a lot of frosty and visually
attractive plants.
The licorice would be in there, but it might be a little harder to find, you know, and
the gas, we'd have to do one more stage to something.
Yeah. To get lucky.
And they asked what you're naming it.
I think he's going to probably call it the obvious.
The purple anus.
The purple anus.
But that's how I mean, in a sense, like, you know, when when we were planning the Super
Dog project, it was like we we were trying to get the the the looks and the greenery
and the smell of the skunk combined with like the density and the and the power of the
chem dog. Yeah.
You know, and so what Matt just gave me was he just gave me like, what was that, five
or six requirements?
It was it was several.
Yeah. Yeah. That makes it a real pain.
Purple, black licorice, gas, eight weeks flowering works in the modern market.
So that's that's like five.
Five. That's five.
Yeah, that's that's yeah, it's half a dozen.
It's half a dozen different things.
So that makes it more difficult.
Yes. If you're only looking to combine a couple of traits from from one cross, then you
can do what I'm going to do with Matt and you can do easy and you can cheat and you
not don't even need a male.
Yeah. You know, but that's how everybody used to start things.
And then the traditional way, which is like what got done to maybe like the C-99 and
other shit was that people would now it's B-C, but back then it was B-X.
People would just repeatedly cross males of a hybrid to the same clone.
Yeah. One, two, three, four times.
Basically trying to get an inbred plant that was as close to the mother clone as they
could. Yeah.
And because of that, that explanation of C-99 and their and that long explanation of
how it was achieved and blah, blah, blah.
People have consistently even myself, I was trying to do B-X threes for years and
finding that like I'm ending up with way more bullshit than I started with.
Why does this look like an F-2 as opposed to a B-X-3?
This should be locking in stuff, not going way further away from it.
And it just doesn't.
Sometimes things work great in theory in other plants that don't necessarily apply as
well in cannabis because it's so variant.
And a lot of people don't understand that because of C-99, the misinfo given with
C-99. Yeah.
And I mean, people just think that like, you know, when you're B-X-ing, it's like
you'd probably need a pretty big population.
And then there's a reason why they call it inbreeding depression.
Yeah. You know, it really takes big populations to avoid that.
And so most people are doing hobby shit, you know?
And so what you just, you know, is like there's an aspect of like trying to, you
know, it's like I always think of like what Neville's criteria was for his NL5
hazes. Yeah.
Right. Is he didn't want anything that went over 16 weeks because he thought that
was way too fucking long and he wanted the potency.
And he wanted nice enough buds and enough yield that it was worth going the four
months it took. And it had to grow and grow down, grow down rockwool on the ground.
Well, yeah, I mean, that's all they used or whatever.
So that was that was the aspect.
But that's not he didn't really actually breed for turps.
He didn't breed. He didn't add in a bunch of extra shit.
He was going for weight, potency, and it couldn't take 22 weeks, you know, like a
lot of the hazes were. So, you know, he only picked really three things.
Yeah. You know, and, you know, we just picked five or six.
So it just goes to show that like don't don't get discouraged.
You know, try to try to pick a reasonable a reasonable blend.
And it's always easier if like if Matt hadn't given me like the the licorice thing
was a super bitch. But like if because it really limits, there's only a few things
that have it. I was going to go cinnamon, but I decided to be nice.
Cinnamon, I would have just thrown my hands up and been like, what the fuck?
You know, asshole.
Yeah. I mean, because you can get too specific.
But I mean, obviously there's there's scents like gas or like terpenelein or like
citrus or whatever that occur commonly enough in cannabis that you'd have a bunch
of paths to pick where you wanted to get that terp from.
Yeah. The terp that Matt picked was hella limiting.
So you really are like grasping at straws.
There are some there are some good ones I thought of that you could have come up with
that would have covered all the bases.
I might have missed it. You know, it's hard to think off the top of your head.
I got a four or five stage project that requires a real male because, you know, 20
years ago, all your buddy seeds, it was like everything you had in your collection
had regular males in it.
Yeah. And now most of my not all of it, but there's a good chunk of my shit that's
feminized. Yes.
So that's all I don't want to say it's useless, but it's like for this particular
fucking thing, it's like not very helpful.
Yeah. How many people make reg seeds right now?
Yeah. But you could have done a fem female with a male, fem line female.
So I could have. Yeah.
I mean, there's probably and that's the cool part, right, is that it's like sometimes
past your goal. It's like what you have access to.
Yeah. Like the Chem D L.A.
Kush was one I was thinking of specifically for maybe some some terms like gas and
black licorice. But it's not necessarily purple.
You know, I actually missed that.
I didn't realize that until a whole bunch of people started popping that hybrid, the
L.A. by D. Yeah.
And and there's a bunch of people that got gas and headband aromas and all that, like
I was expecting. But I would say there's been a few dozen people at least that have
talked about anis terps.
Yeah. They got the anus.
They got the anus, which was really interesting, you know, to to have that pop up.
Yeah. You know, even occasionally or whatever, you know.
And, you know, I, you know, I went on a mission a while a little while ago and I
brought back all those seeds.
Right. Yeah. And my buddy just never, never did the fem.
So remember I was reading him do the other day.
Yeah. And it's like a hard because it's like what males that he have when and what
was he using to blend with what, you know, it's something I've noticed with like a
lot of Mendo breeding and a lot of like the old school breeding as opposed to like
like with my mindset. It's like I want to use something very, very, very basic, like
almost as close to land races I can or something very stable as possible.
You know, typically on the male end.
So I'm not seeing a lot of variation.
So I know where I'm going. Whereas back in the day, it looks like they would do that
single stage cross polyhybrid, polyhybrid, polyhybrid, polyhybrid, polyhybrid.
Even back then, like it was just how it was done.
It was. Yeah. I mean, there was a lot of like what I call hill weed where people would
when they sex their plants, their males would stay in five or 10 gallon pots off
downwind in the woods somewhere.
Yeah. Right. And then when they wanted to make fresh seed every couple of years or
whatever, they would wait and they would go collect pollen from all their saved males
and blend it together.
Right. And then they'd walk up to their patch and their two or three favorite females
that year. They would take a paintbrush or whatever and they would brush the bottoms.
Yeah. Of those plants and mark them.
So then they're taking a blend of like, you know, whatever it is, six or 12 or 15 boys.
Yeah. Blending it together and then adding it to like the three or four sweetest
females they saw from the line.
Yeah. And you do that for 10 or 15 years and then you have you have a bunch of kind of
unique hill shoot. Yeah.
You know, it was like it was relatively diverse and they wouldn't do it every year.
Most people would just try to make fresh seed stock every two or three sometimes.
Some people were nerding out and doing it all the time.
And some people like seeds was like the only thing that they knew about.
So they just tried to freshen them up every other season or so.
You know, it sounds like I'm talking down on it, but I actually like that's the kind of
stuff I hunt. Like if I hear about someone having old hill weed seeds on something, I'm
like, oh, let me get out of, you know, like I don't know why, but it's always the most
appealing to me for some reason.
It's also from an era where there was a whole bunch of diversity.
Yeah. And it was before like the same 45 clones get blended together in innumerable
ways. Yeah. So even just going back that far opens up the gene pool in a way.
I mean, that's kind of why when I said like, you know what, my buddy that I made those
seeds with or whatever, he breeds seeds every year.
Yeah. You know, he's got stuff going back.
He's got all kinds of odd stuff.
You know, I'm sure people would love to hear it.
But he but, you know, he breeds for him or whatever.
And so he had these, you know, roughly 20 year old, like, you know, probably from like
right around when Sensi was starting to go south.
Yeah. He has these maple seeds and they were, you know, we crossed them.
We actually grew a bunch of them out in five, six years
ago. The Mendo Perps maple.
There's some really pretty pictures of them, but they burned.
Damn. They burned, you know, so they got all the way to like October 9th
and then and then they went to shit, you know.
Yeah. But that's kind of how you have to do it.
It's like you have to like figure out where you're going to get it from.
And for me, it was a little easier because most of the plants I've mentioned I've had for
a long time. Yeah.
So I know how they work for someone that's just getting started or whatever, like that
kind of complicated thing, not knowing how the plants they have in their stable might
even breed. Yeah.
It could be there could be more missteps.
Right. I fucked up a lot.
Yeah. You know, so don't don't.
And there's and I don't mean fuck up.
I just mean like you breed things, you hope that these new things come out of them and
they don't. Yeah.
So it's like you just have to try it a different way.
You have to try a different pairing.
You have to see if they blend.
You know, and the more stages you have to do that, you know, you have to get you have
to get bigger, you know.
Yeah. So anyway, they but yeah, that's that's roughly how you would do something like
that. Yeah.
You know, and then you want me to pick something out for you.
Yeah. You go ahead and fire off some traits.
I'll write it down. Fire off some traits and I'll do it from the fem angle, from the
fem angle. Or I could do regular too, but I just figured I'd do fem.
No, no, you should do fem because because that's that's more direct and it's easier
for people to to get right.
So I wanted to like the main reason I wanted to do it was I wanted to illustrate to
people how hard it truly is to be able to say my seeds are going to deliver X, Y, Z
and to be consistent with what they say they're delivering.
There's a lot more that goes into it than just I'm going to make a cross and these
things smell like this. And that's the way the seeds are going to come out.
It's just not one way, one way, one way for people to look at it is like how
genetics work is when you're crossing two things that are pretty simple or
especially things that are widely divergent from one another.
Like, say, for instance, Neville crossing and L5 and Hayes or me crossing Maple and
Mendo P. Like you can see the differences because there's certain things to look for.
Like Neville's growing some shit and it's super tall and thin leafed and grows like a
tree. It's hazy.
Yeah, it stays short and wide leafed and Afghan and stout and all that.
It's probably an L5 Hayes.
Yeah. And for the hybrid I was talking about, you can look at purple and some of
the traits that are unique to Mendo P.
But if you cross things that are similar to each other, it can be a real pain in the
ass to try to figure out which one leans what way.
Which one's breeding which way?
You know, exactly.
You know, and so there's there's an aspect there where I guess what I'm saying is that
we have entered the era where most things are like a mass hodgepodge unless you go
older strains.
Yeah, it's a big mix of genetics these days.
Right. And so people start putting these things together and you try to put like a
whatever, you know, like a fricking Cushmance, you know, by sour, sour dub, two
things with like huge histories.
What could you get? You get a mass amount of shit, right?
Yeah. Oh, yes.
Yes. Yes. With those two, especially Cushmance.
And yeah, and sour dubs, not too uncomplicated or whatever.
Right. So so let's say let's let's say you were going to hunt something.
All right. You know, what are you going to hunt?
So what kind of traits do you want?
Say you're a customer and you're buying for some big corporation and they have these
certain wants, you know, you don't have to want them, but someone wants these and
you're giving the direction on what these traits are that they want.
OK, so they want something that's going to be high yielding.
Yield. OK.
High THC potency.
High THC potency.
Yeah. Got it.
Can can go up to 10 weeks.
Up to 10 weeks.
Up to 10 weeks.
Yeah. And and let's see here.
Give me three more.
Give you three more.
All right. And then so I don't want to say purple because I just did that or
whatever. But let's just say that it has to have.
It has to have citrus turps.
Brutal. OK.
What and wash well, because they're because they want those those high yielding citrus
extracts as well as that.
OK. And so what do we got now?
We got it's got a yield.
Well, one more.
We got a yield well, high THC up to 10 weeks, citrus washes well.
High THC washes well, that should pretty much cover it.
I'll give you those. OK.
OK.
The high THC, let's see.
I'm going to give myself a little more complex.
I'm going to have I'm going to give it density, because otherwise I would just say
let me do that. I mean, as long as it yielded well.
Yeah. And and washes well.
I don't think the fucking I don't think the client is going to give a shit.
Yeah. I would like this.
This like it would be probably lemon or like lemon.
Gee, something like lemon tree.
But if I were going to make a fem line from scratch without the obvious shit and
also leaving out like cookies and OG and stuff like that, and I'm not I'm going to
remove lemon G because it's just too obvious.
And with citrus, we'll see here.
I'm going to go.
I'm going to go.
One second, see ninety nine grapefruit as the start and as the base.
Oh man, there you go.
On the male side, because I know that this is the dominant
oh wait, I'm not doing male, I'm doing female.
But so it's even easier.
But it's also the dominant
scent expression from C-99, the seed lines going around.
So it's going to be more commonly occurring.
So when I'm choosing this female and it's showing that it has a citrus grapefruit
turps, it'll likely also breed for those knowing C-99 well like I do.
So we know we've got that covered, but we also know C-99 is like a seven to eight
weaker. So we can allow ourselves to bring up the THC with something a little more.
A little more typically sativa end.
I would do I would do a clone from Appalachia.
I know Appalachia, Green Crack, Trey Dogg.
You've got the potency, you've got the wash well, you've got somebody actually just
said Appalachia by C-99.
Yeah. In the comments.
Hilarious.
They nailed it. They nailed it.
That's that's what I would do.
A good cut like a Green Crack dominant cut with a little bit of gas of Appalachia and
to a C-99 grapefruit reversal.
And I would probably, you know, do it under metal halides on tables, small plants,
more plants in numbers for the reversal as opposed to bigger plants.
I'd want smaller and more.
And yeah, that's how I do it.
That's how you do it.
Now, C-99 doesn't wash super well, but Green Crack washed pretty good.
And I believe Appalachia will too, especially because of the Trey Dogg.
And I mean, the other thing that you could do, too, is that if it ended up not washing
well, then you could have a C-99 Appalachia hybrid that gave you some citrus and some
bag appeal and some weight, you know, and was going to come in within the time and he
could go another step.
Let's say he failed.
Yes. Right.
Let's say that failed.
Let's say that got you high yielding plants, right, that had some citrus, but it didn't
wash very well.
Yes. But you got high potency, high yield, and you had citrus.
Yes. But you're short.
They're trying to they're trying to run it.
They're trying to they're trying to make ice water.
They're doing all this different stuff, BHO, and it's just coming out at a percentage.
It's not making their extraction happy.
Yeah. Now you need another step.
I need one more step for resin production.
I'm going to cheat and go for the white.
The white.
You're going to go for the white, the classic boost resin production.
The turps aren't that great, but I've seen it combined well with stuff that is really
dominant like C-99.
So I'd probably add the white in there because it was also it also has that that huge
bag appeal and it does have good THC.
Do you think the C-99 citrus is strong enough that it would carry through in a lot of
those hybrids still and still be dominant?
I do. I think you can't wash it out.
I think it's kind of like deep chunk.
One of the. So you think it would be it would be one of those things where like the
sheer blandness of the white.
Yeah. Wouldn't dominate.
Yep. So then we'd have a C-99 by by Appalachia by the white.
Appalachia C-99 white.
Yeah. That's the way I do it.
Except reverse the white because I also know the white reverse as well.
That was the other thing I was thinking.
All right. So that's the other part is you get a failed reversal.
And I know the white reverse as well.
Rascal did it consistently.
I've done it a few times, so it's a good one.
Interesting. I mean, I and that, ladies and gentlemen, is when you start talking to
corporate guys about what they want, why things like Jack Herrera and Jack Herrera
hybrids are blended into everything because they're like, I want three pounds of
light. Got to look pretty.
It's got to be quick.
You know, I want to see behind.
It's got to be eight weeks.
Yeah. And so then they're like, oh, C-99 Jack Herrera.
Like I remember when Colorado, I was going to make fun of you, but I held off when
Colorado went legal.
Think like I remember that everybody was getting three pounds of light, but it was
all hybrids of Jack Herrera, Durban Poison, Green Crack.
And there was one more because it was anything that through like big, long,
forearm golden goat.
Yeah. And they would just hybridize things looking for Finos that they would get
three pounds of light.
Yeah. You know, and so everything was crossed like one of those four things because
they all looked at it from like mathematics.
You know, I think I think realistically why C-99 still is popular today, even is
even more so than even more so than Jack Herrera even.
I think C-99 still dominates is because of the outdoor scene in California and
because of that demand for a sativa type that's super fast flowering that finishes
in time in NorCal.
And I tend to think Appalachia is going to be what totally wipes C-99 out when
enough people run it. It had a good it had a good run for a while by a high end
lonesome when he originally made it.
And then Bodie did a bunch of crosses with it.
But I still think it's got its big run coming.
Jack does carry the terpenelein terps for generations.
Yeah. You know, Green Crack is actually a really nice strain grown well.
Yeah. Most people got a bad name because there was a bunch of people that would
grow six to 10 pound outdoor plants, kind of be great of it.
It got blown out. But.
If you grow a nice little four to eight ounce plant and you know, and you treat it
right, it's got some nice terps.
It's got a sweet high.
It's not like knock you out like but it's it's pretty, you know, it might be like
if it is mostly skunk one, it might be my favorite example of skunk one.
Yeah. Yeah.
It's a good I would say like just the way sometimes like when it comes out really
nice, the bud is really green and the the crystal is really silvery, you know, and
it's it's got a nice sweet terp to it.
And that's a good there's a good chance it might be a Mendo perp skunk one of
sorts. I do think that green crack.
Yeah. Holy fuck.
That would trip me out.
Yeah. I mean, it's mango terpy.
It's very purple with even the slightest bit of cold.
But I mean, it's like black.
People say, where can I find it?
That's the thing is that real green crack was so common that all of a sudden it's
like really hard to find the real one.
Yes. And, you know, it got renamed honestly in like the people read its name
because real because green crack got a bad name like brokers put off on it.
But then when the extract era happened, I'm convinced that there's a bunch of
papaya that's just fucking green crack.
It could be. Yeah.
You know, I'm not saying 100 percent all of it, but like when you extract green
crack and you wash it, it has nice tropical fruit terps.
Some people get papaya, some people get mango, some people get with some other
things depending on their nose or whatever.
But, you know, it has that similar profile.
Yeah. In that regard.
You know, but I think because of certain traits, there's a good chance that
mental purpose tend to be in that lineage.
I'm surprised you never noticed that one.
I would I would honestly trip out if that was the I mean, I've been wrong before.
Yeah, I'll say that.
And we've had good friends of ours that that told me things that I was just like,
oh, no. And then later on, I was like, whoa, whoa.
You know, so it's it's possible.
But, you know, I the story of that one is pretty mysterious.
It is very mysterious because there's the tale of Cecil.
And when I when I first encountered it was through through James Holland.
He had green crack, but we had it labeled as green cush with a C in our room.
And it actually said green, like written out cush with the C.
So because of that, when I first went online, people were telling me that it was
a C. And when I went online, people were talking about how well Cecil C has a
cush with a C. So for a long time, me and Cecil tried to meet up so we could talk
about this stuff and figure it out.
And when we finally talked, it sounds like his cush with the C was very skunky.
Like he says, the one that he said to San Diego was very skunky, which is not
like the green crack or the green cush that was in San Diego.
I don't know if it originates in San Diego.
I don't know if it originates in Mendo or up in Humboldt.
Frickin Oregon, for all we know, with a different name.
I know it made it to SoCal with the name Green Cush with a C.
Oh, yeah. And then became green crack after that.
People are throwing around different things.
People are asking, like, well, how do you source what you're breeding with?
And to be honest, you know, like I never really did a bunch of breeding projects
where I had to go out and like have a treasure map and find the things I wanted.
Mostly you end up breeding with stuff you have access to.
Yeah, let's be real.
We were creating a hypothetical situation and I tend to have a.
So I tended to pick things in my library, not hypothetical things I'd have to get,
but like actual things that I possess.
Yeah, because that's just where my mind goes.
Right. It would be infinitely harder to like be like, oh, well, I need to do a project
that's going to take three or four steps and I need to gather
a bunch of different things that are going to be new to me, you know?
And there's an aspect people are talking about.
I don't think Phylos can actually determine family relationships the way that we.
One day, one day, one day we will sit down and a few of us will tell the story
about how we put Phylos' science to the test by using known clones,
known parentage of these clones, and submitted them to Phylos
to see if they could truly determine parentage.
So there's an aspect.
Yeah, there's an aspect to where people are saying Green Crack and Blue Dream
got played out right at the same time.
Yeah, there's an aspect, you know, because I live in Mendocino County or whatever,
like and for a long time, it was sort of like the heart of,
of, you know, outdoor and stuff in California before it spread.
A lot of times you would have plants that were really nice on their own,
like the Blue Dream or the Green Crack or the Berry White or the this or whatever it might be.
And they get there's an era where like they're really popular
and they're and they're moving really well and people are growing really nice examples of them.
And then there's a point where people realize how much money they can make
and they can throw out ninety nine plants and get eight pounds of plant.
And you do the math.
And so all of a sudden there's all this B and C grade of the same strain
and it kind of harshes the strain out.
So a lot of times people will be like, oh, that strain sucks.
And really what happened is, is the market got exploded
by a bunch of low quality, enormous waves of it
because it was super profitable.
And then the, you know, the, you know, it moves on.
And so people move on.
You grow a little four ounce plant of Green Crack or Blue Dream,
you'd probably be pretty happy.
Yeah. Yeah. You grow it nice.
You know, you grow a little three, four ounce plant of it.
Like you'd probably be stoked. And so are your buddies.
Blue Dream, because I was still very heavily involved in the seed,
seed business when Blue Dream got real big and all that got blown up.
And what I saw happen right before my eyes was there was a few of us
that made us ones of that original cut and released it in some good hybrids.
And then we saw major Spanish companies
making seed lines called Blue Dream that had nothing to do with Blue Dream.
The cut, they would combine like a blueberry and their hazes,
whatever they had, and put that on the market.
And I don't want to name any names or anything, but certain companies
would buy these, import them to the US.
And all of a sudden, these Blue Dream seeds were everywhere.
The attitude was doing giveaways with everything you bought.
You would get these Blue Dream seeds.
So Blue Dream hit the country in mass.
But it wasn't Blue Dream.
It was blueberry haze from some Spanish company with the California
market getting the majority of the actual Blue Dream. Right.
And I mean, there's an aspect to where I think that for most plants,
there's a window of of quality.
Yeah, you know, it varies plant to plant,
but I actually think a lot of the indoor look.
Is just because people are growing relatively small plants compared to outside.
And yeah, you know.
So you're only asking a plant to give you, say, like one to eight ounces.
It'll have a vastly different look than if you're asking that plant
to give you a pound or two pounds or three pounds or eight pounds. Right.
Yeah. And I've had I've had times where it was like,
when we were transplanting and stuff like some plants got broken off at the stem.
Yeah. And so not used.
And so I would grow these like depths and these plants would get like a pound.
And then like helpers wouldn't want to throw away the ones we broke.
So there'd be like a branch, this stem this big with a few branches coming off it.
And when we pulled that stuff down, that stuff looks so amazing compared to
compared to like the rest of it, because it was like three ounces.
Yeah. And it was just super frosty and choked out.
So there's an aspect, certainly with different plants of like there's a size sweet spot.
Yeah. Where you get like the I like Blue Dream at four to six ounces.
That's where it was like just fucking perfect every fucking time.
Most weed is if it's going to be good weed, you know, that's a decent that it can
say it can get that big, you know, some plants can get to a half pound.
Some plants can get to a pound.
But there's a there's a point of diminishing quality.
Yeah, absolutely.
You know, where it's like the resin doesn't stretch or the turps don't stretch or the
plant just has to put so much energy into its stem and its structure and it's how
it's going to survive. It doesn't have enough to put into, you know, it's the quality
of its weed. Yeah.
I mean, there's people that swear that small little plants and one gallon pots, you
know, or or is the headiest weed.
Yeah, that's I know that when CSI was talking about Shabud's sour that he talks
about is like some of the best smoke he's ever had out of millions of plants, he's
probably smoked. He always says that it was in a one gallon pot and flour or power
flour. And that's it.
Yeah, I mean, so there's an aspect there where it's like you I mean, I used to
actually do a bunch of breeding that way.
Right. Once I got smart, smarter, I suppose I should say, because I used to just grow
up all these fucking seeds.
And granted, the era was different, but still you get all this random weed that you
didn't like very much.
Yeah, because let's face it, when you're breeding, it's like you're only going to
like so much of it.
Yeah. You know, and then I got and then I got smart.
Instead of like blooming the seeds, I would grow them up and I would take cuts and I
would put them into like a one gallon pot and I would grow like on a you know, I might
grow like 50 or 100 plants on a four by eight.
And I'm just going for like a single stock, try to get a half ounce.
Yeah. But that half ounce will tell me, does it have the turps?
Does it have the high?
That's enough smoke.
And then maybe I can grow out a hundred things at once.
And it's small enough to still know you're getting the quality, the ultimate quality
that you can get from that plant without having to push it hard.
Yeah. And you're starting from a clone because that's the other thing that I realized
is like a lot of times I wanted to see like what a clone would do.
Yeah. Because you only get one shot at the seed.
Yeah. You only ever see that seed.
Yeah. It's got a tap root.
It's going to act differently.
Yeah. So I got more consistent when I just like when I would just take I would breed
and I would I wouldn't flower the seed plants.
I would flower the clones.
Yeah. I would want to see what they did as clones.
And then I could flower almost like a see a green style.
And then you could have a hundred or one hundred and fifty things and they're like,
you know, 10 to 20 ounce, 10 to 20 grams each, maybe a zip.
Yeah. And that's one thing that's one thing I've been trying to teach everybody
that's watched like Breeder Syndicate or my my live streams since I started doing
them is when you buy seeds, when you buy seeds and you're popping seeds, you know,
a lot of people run into sexual instability issues, all kinds of other issues, or
they like it the one time and they don't like it the rest and they don't understand
why. You know, I always tell them, I always say, don't worry about blooming the mom.
Don't worry about blooming the seed mom.
Bloom the clone mom, because that's what you're going to see every time.
And that's what matters.
That's what that's what matters.
That's where you need to make your choices from.
And it'll 99 percent of the time, any sexual instability issues are gone with the
clone. Ninety nine percent of time, for whatever reason, that's how it works.
It's just different hormones.
So, yeah. But yeah, I mean, I used to get two ounces, four ounces, five ounces, eight
ounces, all these different plants, all these different sizes, all that and like it's
hard to do that. But you can actually go through a bunch of plants and you really don't
need to me.
You really don't need more than, you know, 10 or 20 grams should give you like a
really good idea of whether or not which ones you like enough to like work with again.
Yeah. And that's good.
That could be done on one or two four by eights.
Yeah. It doesn't even take that much, you know, and then you and then, you know, I
would just toss the seed, mom, and I would just keep clones, you know, clones as
backup. Yeah.
And as soon as they grew a little bit, just flip them.
And I wanted to see like what the main the main stem would do.
Wouldn't top them. Just try to get spears.
Yeah. Relatively speaking.
Yeah. You know, I mean, it's not the only way to do it, but it is a way for people.
A lot of people these days are going to have smaller size areas to work with.
And then if you did that in a greenhouse, you could look what you could look through
three or four hundred plants if you want.
Yeah. But the hard part is going to be testing.
It is labeling, drying it, keeping it separate.
I mean, you know, Caleb, he's got fucking hangers with all kinds of color coded labels
on them, notes and shit, and then you're trying to keep them all separate and different
plastic bag or different jars or whatever.
And then you're trying to like smoke and take notes.
So let's talk about like the downside of doing too big of a pop.
That's what I was just saying. You know, it's like, how do you you know, like there's an
aspect of like doing too big of a pop is cool in the sense that when you're looking for
certain physical characteristics, you're going through more faster.
Yeah. Right. And so you can you can you can sift through.
But then, you know, you know, smoke testing, let's say you have 50 things, 100 things,
smoke testing, all that takes a while and you usually got to engage friends.
Yeah. Let's say you have 13000 things, though.
That was yeah, I mean, that was at that point, you're not really, you know, I mean,
you're you're not really phenol hunting.
You're doing some phenol hunting, but you realize that like the vast majority of it,
it's going to get lost to time.
Yeah. You know, and that's the time.
I mean, you know, we have a pretty big thing going right now with some of Caleb's work
and it's it's like we really get to see what's in the line and how it expresses.
Right. But the vast majority of them aren't going to be kept for any reason.
Yeah. The vast majority can't be smoked.
I mean, it's just to get to that, like if you're let's say you're popping 2000.
Like, how are you going to smoke that within a certain amount of unless you just have
people cheap and for free all day and those motherfuckers don't go away, you know?
Yeah. I mean, there's an aspect where really like for a hobby gardener, I mean, a lot of
depending on how people smoke, even if you did 60 or 70 things, it would take you, you
know, if you smoked two or three of them a day, you know, it would take you, you know,
almost a month. Yeah.
To sort through it. And so, you know, you know, and then you could also have certain
kinds of criteria, maybe some things you smoke one bowl of and it doesn't have the
flavor. You don't like it.
You just immediately, you know, but then it's like how fine of a comb.
Yeah. You know, people say cut a clone late in flower.
You know, there's a lot of there's a lot of euros that don't like to keep backup clones
and they'll literally do this thing where they'll leave all the bottoms on their plants
and they'll bloom them and their favorites.
They'll just like move before the plant's fully finished and re-veg the bottoms.
Yeah. You know, the problem with that, that there's nothing wrong with that method
because a lot of times the easiest things to re-veg are like the poorly flowered out,
you know, wispy shit on the bottom.
So you can cut a plant down and smoke it and be re-vegging it.
But it does take months.
It does. It takes a few months for it to start kicking back.
Yeah, I did a lot. I did it a ton for a long time when I would do
pheno hunts because I would try to do as big of a pheno hunt as I could do and
with as many different lines.
And what usually ended up happening was that I couldn't keep, you know, four clones of
every single thing that I was hunting through.
So I had to get really good at re-vegging.
I had to get it right every fucking time and figure out how to do that.
And eventually I figured out how to do that and be consistent with it.
But it's hard and it takes a long fucking time.
My buddy, I was mentioning that I did the Maple Project.
He was he was just saying he does 50, 60 things at a time and it's a bitch.
Yeah. You know, it's like you have lives.
It's not that easy to like.
It's one thing to get baked every day.
It's another thing to like take notes and see how you feel and, you know, be looking
for certain aspects of things.
So you either have to be a super harsh dick or it takes a minute.
Yeah. You know, and so and a lot of times what sucks, you know, is that, you know, the
runty, shitty, fucked up plant that you almost killed ends up being the most interesting
one to smoke and flavor.
Yeah. And all the ones that had all the structure and growth and vigor that you wanted
were just, you know, OK compared to some of those other ones.
Yeah. It's always the scrawny, shitty one that doesn't want to revenge the most stubborn
one. That's usually the one I want to keep.
Yeah. I mean, obviously, like I mean, imagine imagine if, you know, the OG craze
happened, but like OG grew like Blue Dream.
Yeah. There really would be Blue Dream billionaires.
Yeah. You know, and all that because it's like that, but that's the that's the kind of
maybe we could talk about that for a minute because what's interesting is that I was
talking about, like when things went legal in Colorado and all of a sudden all these
high yielding plants started getting bred into all the indoor because that's what met
the model. Yeah.
There is a risk as things become legal that the weird, runty, fucked up offshoots that we
all know and love that end up becoming like our elites get cold.
Yeah, because they don't meet the production model.
Well, I remember even even when Subcool was at the height of breeding fame, I would
call it even what he what he had, what I would call his genuine fame at one point.
That dude was pretty famous and he was putting it out there.
Hold on one second. I'm going to interrupt them for a second.
Our homie from Hawaii was saying taking cuts two or three weeks into flower is nice.
They stay small and about the time they re-veg, you're finishing up the round.
That's what CSI does a whole bunch.
His primary method is to take clones, clean up the bottoms about two weeks into bloom.
And then that and then that slows down and they freak out for a while, but they kind of
are on the same timing as your room.
So around the time you figure out which ones are good or hope, you know, they get because
you can get them too big and then you're chopping them back.
Yeah, I was going to say Subcool, he would call a lot of seeds in the seedling stage,
like in the seedling stage, he would do major culling.
And I was always a big opponent of that because I found that like a lot of the slower
growing stuff can be just as amazing a keepers for different reasons, you know.
But for a while that that was in cannabis and still kind of is a common thought that
if it's weak as a seedling, cull it.
Well, I mean, there's nothing wrong with that in in a certain aspect, but then it's
just making it harder to find what you want because you're trying to guarantee that
it's going to be in a strong and vigorous plant.
Exactly. And if there's one thing we know about cannabis, is that like the weak, the
weak, shitty ones sometimes have a tendency of being like the market's favorite.
Yeah. OG Kush, I can't even believe that wasn't culled at the beginning just to how
floppy lind and it has so many traits that are hard, hard to grow.
I mean, let's talk about, you know, do you know the thing that I will put this number
one all time? I can't believe it was culled.
The quays.
Oh, yeah. Yeah, the quays.
The doctor. The quays is a wild one.
How how can you grow something that takes that long and every bud is like a tiny
fingernail sized fucking calyx ripper.
Yeah. And it becomes one of the more famous strains in Holland.
That was a labor of love because there's a bunch of people that would look at that
halfway through and be like, what a mess.
Death. So I got phenos like that or expressions like that from Alaskan ice seeds
that I purchased from seed madness, I want to say in the UK.
Yeah, it spit out phenos like that and they were immediately called like I didn't think
anything of it was before I had ever seen or run the quays.
Yeah. You would just kill it.
You'd be like, this is super fucked.
This is the worst thing ever.
This is horrible shit.
This is like this.
Yeah. This is fucking ridiculous.
So you just kill it, you know.
And that's actually what Neville did to about half his hayseeds that popped.
Yeah. They were so sparse and fucked up that he didn't realize what he had.
And he called him and then he smoked it.
And then, yeah, somebody was saying, oh, GKB.
Oh, GKB is an excellent example of something that would never make a production model.
Yeah. Super slow.
Takes forever to badge.
Doesn't yield that much, you know, all that.
And so I always think of tomatoes, right?
Because there's been this heirloom tomato sort of renaissance in America.
But when people are like you go to the grocery store, you see lots of delicious vegetables
or whatever. But tomatoes are bred for size and weight
and color and to not rot and to not split and flavors
way down there. So the tomatoes that get stuffed into most people's grocery stores are
like big money making watery.
It's like all the production values are paramount.
Yeah. And the part where it's delicious and it tastes good and has the flavors that we
want, like we can't force them to do that, which is why a lot of people think store bought
tomatoes suck.
Yeah. That's why I stick with cherry tomatoes.
So but what I mean by that.
Well, yeah. But what I mean by that is that like as cannabis goes into a production model
and they start looking at square footage and cost and yield and this and that and
everything else, there could be very different pressures put on
what strains make it to the public.
Yeah. The OG would never have made it.
The OGKB would never have made it.
The Quaze would never have made it.
Like there's a lot of varieties out there for one reason or another that wouldn't fit
somebody's production model.
Yeah. I was always surprised when cookies showed up like the form cut because it was
so low yielding, like so, so low yielding compared to what was typically
going around. Even even most OG cushions had been they had figured them out to make them
yield. The cookies was just so low yielding.
I was shocked that it ever got commercial viability.
I don't think it would have without.
I mean, there was an aspect where prices were starting to fall.
Yeah. And and Instagram was young and it was like a perfect
moment where it gained a bunch of popularity and then it sold for high dollars.
So it was almost kind of like the same thing with cush, right?
Like and our buddy resin, it's like, sure, you might not get as much weight as you were
getting off other things until you figured it out.
But if you were selling it for seven grand a pound, you really didn't care.
Yeah, exactly.
You know, there was some there was some like, oh, I can get lower yields off this baked
into it. Yeah.
You know, but and it's still yeah, makes way more money than otherwise.
Right. And so there's an aspect now where it's like, yeah, biomass.
People are looking for like, you know, like weight on, you know, wet weight, how much I
can extract, what's my yield, what's my this where the previous selection process
and cannabis was entirely consumer based.
Yeah. Right.
Almost all these fads needed a bunch of people at the other end willing to buy it for
top dollar. Yeah.
That's what drove the purple craze.
That's what drove sour.
That's why sour was the best selling weed in America was because there was this
massive corridor on the East Coast that this couldn't get enough of it.
Yeah. Right.
Yeah. It became part of the culture.
It became part of the culture, you know, and then Kush had its whole moment in
Southern California and elsewhere, you know, and then Cookies was the bay.
And then, you know, and you have Skittles winning all these awards and stuff.
So a lot of that stuff is I mean, we used to joke when we first got the real Skittles
where it was like you'd start vegging next year's gap now.
Yeah, I bet.
You know, because it was like, oh, just give it a good six month veg and it'll be
three feet tall. Yeah.
I remember the first time my buddy I had a I had a good friend of mine that got
Skittles kind of before it was it was named that as much.
And he grew these plants.
He had Lake County, beautiful sun, 400 gallon pots, you know, all organic, really
nice. And he called me up all panicked and wanted me to come out.
And I was like walking.
This was like back in the trees era.
So I'm walking through he has sad diesels and green cracks and, you know, different
things and they're all, you know, nine, 10 feet tall trellised out, you know, all
that. And then you walk through this section and there's like five Skittles and
they're like come up to like my waist.
Yeah, I bet. And they're all wide and like little chunks.
And his buddy was like, oh, I'll give you like four times as much.
But you're looking at these like tiny little ruts.
They were all started at the same time.
Yeah. And he thought he was fucking up.
Yeah. He just didn't realize that it grew eight times as slow as anything else.
Yeah.
You know, and so there's that aspect to where it was like Skittles would never pass
any kind of production model.
Skittles looks like it got a goddamn disease.
Skittles is ugly as flour for the most part, you know, which is fine.
I don't mind. I am totally a pre-cookie person, so I'm fine with ugly flour that
works good. But, you know, it's very slow growing.
It's a bit mold prone, you know, but none of that mattered when it was winning a
bunch of awards for extraction.
Exactly. Because you're just testing the extract and the hash was fire.
And that's that was my point about the potency aspect, too.
It's like, yeah, I mean, like it used to be a major deal that if the flour wasn't
potent, but that's not such a deal breaker anymore with the extract market.
No, I mean, in fact, I'll you know, I was joking with you about citrus and it was it
was a little I get that me saying citrus gave you a bunch of pads because there's a
bunch of kinds of citrus and citrus for people that don't know also tends to breed
fairly dominant. Yes.
You know, orange things a lot of time pass orange grapefruit, grapefruit, lemon,
lemon, that kind of thing. Right.
It's pretty dominant term, you know, but a lot of times those those citrus cuts are
pretty moderate to mild potency.
Yeah. There's not really a lot of ones that test very high or by themselves are
particularly potent. And so I almost think that like Tangy came along at a perfect
time because it was like a big skunk plant.
Here I am shouting out DNA or whatever, but it was a big citrus skunk plant at a time
when a lot of people had forgotten about citrus because it was so unpopular.
Yeah. Coincided right with the extraction movement.
And that citrus turp passed, where at the time a lot of other turps kind of ended up
tasting like axle grease.
And it also was not named Kali-O.
No. Most importantly, some people were like, oh, it's is.
Yeah. It's not named Kali-O.
And so and so I really I don't know if it would have caught on without that BHO era
being timed right then when people were getting nails and dab kit and all the
different little tools and accoutrements that went along with it.
You know? Yeah.
And then it's like you take something that's like 15 percent THC and not that
potent. But if you extract it and it's 80 percent, well, now, OK, now we're
somewhere. Yeah.
It might not be a long lasting high, but it'll get you high.
I know there's something and we can keep talking about this, but I know there's
something that people wanted you to cover and it's something that we missed last
time or two times ago.
And it was your drying tech.
Oh, man. Well, let me.
I'll talk about that.
Let me just say, because people are throwing in Kali-O.
So in that big hunt that we were doing down south or whatever, I ran a number of
CSI's Kali-O hybrids and I was actually amazed at how sativa it bred.
Yeah, it really it really did.
Like even things that were pretty indica that I thought would be would lean.
They were big, tall, branchy, orange smelling, you know, kind of grandpa weed
looking phenos and stuff like that.
So it was it was a lot more in different hybrids.
It was a lot more sativa than I was expecting.
Yeah. Right.
I'll say that. And Kali-O went through periods where it became so unpopular it
was almost unsellable.
Yes. Yes.
It's the only weed, well, a type of Kali-O is the only weed someone ever brought
back to me and said, not not this didn't get me high.
Yeah. And there's an aspect with a lot of very citrusy weed that's like that, where
people find the high to be some some people find the high to be fleeting or super
short lived, or they just develop a tolerance to it after two or three days, you
know, and and other people are fine with it.
But there is a percentage of people that develop a tolerance and find it boring.
Yeah. And there's definitely a difference.
Someone said cleaner. There's definitely a difference in citrus.
There are some plants that are like sweet citrus that have almost a creaminess to
them. And then there's ones that smell like you just sprayed orange cleaner in your
mouth. Yes.
Very astringent.
An orange, just pissed orange.
Or a lemon, you know, something like just very like astringent and weird and and
like you sucked on a chemical, you know?
Yeah. I hate that.
That long lingering mouth coating lemon like lemon and lemon tree.
I can't stand that.
Oh, you just burn out. I mean, I'm one of those people I burn out.
It's fine to have it in rotation.
But if I was stuck with it as my only weed for a month, I would be so bummed.
I get it. Yeah.
I don't even put it in rotation.
I don't like the flavor at all.
And but there was a moment where with BHO and certain things when that was super
popular before rosin was really hitting that those citrus turps came through really
clean and clear. A lot of people made a lot of money off fucking lemon G in Ohio.
Yeah. Lemon G and the tangy.
I mean, tangy sort of rocketed DNA to being super busy for four or five years after
that. Crockett.
Yeah. I mean, you know, whatever, whatever, whatever combination, you know, Crockett,
you know. So as far as drying tech, man, that's a
that's a big subject, but I could chat about it or whatever.
Yeah. This is your specialty, man.
I will say that.
I will say that, like, you know, there's a lot of people that throw a lot of stuff out
there as far as like what's drying tech, and I think there's a lot of like copycat
stuff out there. Yeah.
So for me, because I've always been a smoker, I
was always interested in making sure my weed came out nice.
Yeah. Right. And curing it.
You know, a lot of times people put an enormous amount of of weight
on what they feed their plant and all that and like all these different environmental
factors and those those things can all throw in.
But if you don't cure it the right way, a lot of that gets
overwhelmed. Yes.
You know. And so there's an aspect where there's no point in my career, really, really
where I was competing on scale.
There was always way bigger people than me.
So I always tried to make sure even if there was a flood up in my neck of the woods,
that my weed was just good enough to go.
Yeah. Right.
Like some of it's going to move.
Yeah. Should be mine.
Yeah. You know what I mean?
And so I'm right. And so as a result of that, you had to.
And then on top of that, too, it's like coming from like my own perspective
is like I never grew my head stash super separate too much.
So like I needed it all to be good.
Yeah. In that regard, people are saying, let's hear the dry tech.
Well, there's like but it's just like the breeding tech or whatever.
Right. There's like there's goals.
Like, what are you trying to do?
Right. And so one of the things I had to figure out was that and this is kind of what
like separately led to curing is that there's this thing up here that we now it's
permanent, that there's this thing we used to call that called the flood.
And the flood used to be November, December, January, and it was it was way too
hard to sell. OK, it's because, you know, people would go on vacation, people would go
to see their families, it's around the holidays.
Some people are Hawaii.
Some people are back home with grandma.
And if enough links in those chains disappear, people end up sitting on stuff.
Yeah. And then people figured out that there was a dry spell in spring.
And so if you were if you were smart, you would hold on to most of your stuff until
spring when it would be both much easier and much more low price.
Yeah. So that was good.
So is the flood happening this year?
This year, the flood is the last few years.
The flood is seemingly never stopped.
We are we are living in water world.
There's been no receding.
There's been no price spiking going on.
It has been Atlantis, man.
This is this is yes, this is the ice caps melting as far as pricing goes on the West
Coast. So but what happened is, is that you ended up needing to figure out like people
realize that if they trimmed all their weed in in fall, it both cost a bunch of money
because you had to pay the trimmers.
And then for the most part, unless you were really careful about how you stored it, your
weed was worse in spring when you had to when you had to sell.
Yeah. And then sometimes you're you were growing enough that like you weren't even with
the size trim crew you're going to have, it was going to take you a while to even get
to that. Yeah.
So you had to be able to dry and cure it right in a way that it stayed nice.
Yeah. For a period of time for a variety of reasons.
Yeah. Right. And then there's an aspect where you can always like if you it's basically
like you get one shot to do it the right way and you can like adapt along the way.
But if you fuck up too bad, you just ruined it for that round.
Yeah. So I know that's like a I haven't really said anything about the tech, but there's
like a reasoning behind it of how you get there.
Right. So and for people that aren't growers that are listening, I'm sorry if you're bored
or whatever, but because it's about to get a little specific.
But basically what I what the way I look at it is that when you're drying weed, I like
to either cut the plant down whole or chop it into chunks.
Yeah. OK. Relatively, relatively big chunks.
OK. Someone just said, oh, teach me your ways in an eight by four.
So if you're worried about temps or you're worried about water loss or you're a little
extra dry, you can leave it in bigger pieces.
Yeah. Because those pieces will hold more moisture because there's a lot of moisture in
the stem. If you have really good control of your environment, you can chop up into
smaller midsize pieces and hang them that way.
And I just hang them up.
People can you can use hangers.
You can use netting.
You can use just a variety of things that allows you to create lines or walls is
basically how it boils down to.
And I leave all the water leaf.
Yeah. Hundred percent.
I don't take off any water leaf.
And the reason for that is that the things that fuck up your buds are are basically
air, heat and light.
Yeah. Right. Those are the things that start to oxidize your weed and start to mess it
up. OK, so what all that family do is that they fold down over the flower and they
essentially like if you have fans for air movement and stuff like that, they're
generally blowing on the fan leaves, not on directly on your flower.
Yeah. And it's making your flower darker.
Yeah. Right.
So it's protecting it from wind.
It's protecting it from from light.
It's protecting it from the various things that might degrade it.
And as your plant starts to dry, it'll suck that moisture from all those from all
those leaves into itself.
Yes. And that's kind of what you're trying to do is you're trying to get you're
trying to get. How do you put it?
You're trying to slowly sweat out enough moisture, got enough chlorophyll.
Right. So you want this to be a slow process.
You want it to be a slow process.
So I see all kinds of things where people talk about 60 60, you know, 60 degrees and
60 percent humidity for two weeks.
I do disagree on that a little bit.
I think the 60 percent humidity is fine.
But I think that that's actually like a little too cold.
Yeah. You know, and it really slows down transpiration at times.
I like it. I think the 60s is fine.
I like I like, you know, mid 60s and anywhere really realistically speaking from mid
60s to low 70s, you're pretty safe.
Yeah. You know, in my opinion, like there's ideal and then there's like what you're
going to deal with. And then there's an aspect of like there's a there's an aspect
of when you're hanging it the first three or four days, a whole bunch of water is
going to flow out of those plants.
Yeah. So depending on how much weed you have and how much space it is like, it
doesn't really matter if you have a stuffed four by eight or you have a stuffed big
garage or you have a stuffed warehouse or whatever, whatever size it is, if it's
stuffed, you know, it can be really hard to have enough dehumidification.
Yeah. In order to pull that much water out of it.
So a lot of people lose control or whatever, like the end in a lot of dehumidification
don't even like to work at 60 degrees either.
Yeah. So having them a bit warmer really helps.
But that's one thing people should all look at is that there's a bunch of
dehumidifiers. If you don't have a low grain refrigerant dehumidification, you
probably don't have a dehumidification that's suitable for drying.
Yeah. And most dehumidification are rated for a certain temperature, which is quite
warm and a certain humidity, which is quite high.
And you should look at like where they're operating temperature is.
Right. So if the dehum says it stops operating at 58 degrees.
Yeah. Don't run your room at 60.
Yeah. It's too close to it just not working.
You should probably run it at 70 and give your dehum a chance to work.
Right. Yeah. So.
But if you have a low grain refrigerant dehum, it'll work at those temps.
So there's basically a mode where it's like you're just trying to make sure your
weed doesn't mold and you get that humidity.
You're trying to keep it cool and you're trying to get that humidity out of there.
Yeah. Some people vent, you know,
some people literally exhaust air and bring in fresh air because that's like if
the temperature's outside or fine or whatever, that's great.
Some people try to do a combination of air conditioners and dehums.
But you're basically trying to keep it somewhere between the mid 60s to low 70s
and temp. And, you know, somewhere between ideally 60% humidity,
but don't panic if it's 65 or 70 or even 75, four or five for the first day or
two, it should come down. But if it doesn't that first day,
there's so much moisture.
Yeah. And depending on how much vegetative material in a small space,
it could be insane. Like you were saying.
Yeah. I mean, it's, it's,
people are talking about dipping it in hydrogen peroxide.
Ah, you justify.
Don't do that. Um,
people are doing that because they're trying to pass testing with various PM or
biologicals or different stuff like that. Hydrogen peroxide is, um, uh,
is a, uh, it's, it oxidizes.
Yeah. I don't want to just put that on good weed for no reason.
It's going to, it's going to oxidize various turps.
It's going to oxidize various compounds. It's gonna,
it's going to lower the quality of your weed, you know? Um, so,
so there's an aspect of, and look, I mean, these are just like,
people can hit me up later. These are just like basic things.
It's actually kind of hard to just walk through like all the little details of
how you would do it. But essentially I'm just trying to give you like a range,
whatever your equipment might be. Some people might be able to use outside air.
Some people might be able to use dehumidifiers and air conditioners,
maybe even dehumidifiers and heaters depending on where they live and what time
of year it is. But yeah, I was trying to keep the plant in that range.
And after three or four days, your plan's going to shrink a bunch.
Yeah. Right. And once it shrinks a bunch,
then you're in a mode where you're going to start to see, um,
most of that water is gone and it should be a lot easier for you to moderate
your drying room. Yeah. Right. Like as long as,
as long as you have the equipment in place, that's going to make it work right.
You're not really battling in that middle section. Yeah. Right.
So you're just trying to keep it at those same temps.
And now another three or four days passes. Right.
And now you're in the third stage stage of drying,
which is actually kind of weird because you risk your plants getting too dry.
But if you take them down often after six or seven days,
there's still got too much moisture in the stem and you try to bin them up or
bag them up and that sweats right out. Yeah. It's a lot more work. Yeah.
Right. So I like to go 10 or 14 days on the line. Yeah.
If I'm doing it commercially, it's usually 10 or 12.
If I'm doing it for myself, it's usually more like 14, you know. Um,
but you might actually have, I have humidifiers, uh,
where sometimes I add moisture bad back into my room. Yeah.
Sometimes it might be fall and it might've not rained in months and it might be
bone dry and 20% humidity outside.
And your AC is removing some moisture and so is your whatever.
Sometimes you turn off all your de-humps. Yeah. Right.
Sometimes you turn off your fans. Um,
and because you're just trying to conserve that moisture sometimes,
and you're just trying to get through that next three or four days to let the
chlorophyll on the moisture slowly sweat out. Yeah. And if it's too dry,
you'll your stuff will start to get crisp. Yeah. Right.
So you're going low and slow.
Some people just want to say just leave it at 60 and 60 like the jungle boys or
some shit and you just like, let it be. I don't actually,
I think that there's like three distinct stages and if you treat them different,
it's a little easier to deal with.
Well 60 60 can't work for all types of bud densities either. Like, I mean,
it's gotta be some range. There's a lot of copycat stuff in there.
So I'm just kind of trying to give generals and maybe I'm talking fast cause
it's kind of a big subject or whatever. But, and if you have,
if you have the right environment, um, if you have the right environment,
like you can actually, you could, you can keep it three weeks, four weeks,
you know, it's not like, you know, you can actually, I mean,
with the right outside and the right inside,
you can leave it up there for a while if you wanted to.
I don't tend to like to because I often have to refill it or I just find that
the next stage I can actually get a lot more control doing it what I do next.
So this is where a lot of people fuck it up in my opinion, right here.
I don't think I've like talked about anything too revolutionary yet or any shit
like that. Um, but here's where it's a mess is that there's an aspect where
after 10 or 11 days,
like people tend to think that they need to store their weed at a consistency
that's perfect for smoke. Yeah.
And you actually probably don't want to store it at that.
You probably want to store it like a little bit too moist for smoke. Right.
And so what you're, what I ended up doing is at that point,
like I think that's where the cure begins. Right.
And a lot of people think you cure in jars. You actually cure on the stem.
Okay. If you take it off the stem, you're not curing. Okay.
Why is that?
Because most curing and like if you talk to tobacco farmer people or whatever,
like they'll talk about this all day or, you know,
they grow tobacco for cigars or different things.
There's an interplay between the stem and the leaf. Yeah.
The stem and the flower. Right. And the plant can,
if as long as it's all connected,
the plant can move that moisture around itself. Yeah. Right.
So what I tend to do is that when it comes time,
I will take like a bunch of like, uh, literally like a store,
like grocery style paper bags and you open it up.
And at that point you got to feel when you're about to seal something up,
you got to think like, you know,
how like osmosis and like,
like aromas and moisture and all that will try to equalize. Yeah.
So at that point I've got a bunch of fan leaves and this is,
somebody was mentioning earlier when you do it that way, bucking is a bitch.
It is when you buck, um, before I put my stuff in there, I take most of the,
no, no sweet leaf, but I take most of the big leaf off. Yeah.
And then I chop it into chunks that fit into like the,
I'm not holding my hands open the right way,
but I chop it into chunks that fit into the paper bag. Yeah. You know,
so think about how long a paper bag is and they're about that size. Yeah.
And then you start stacking it with things that have most, not all,
but most of the family removed and left on the stem,
but chopped into chunks that fit. Yeah. And then that, that bin, can you,
that, that paper bag can usually hold between, I don't know,
400 and 600, 700 grams. Okay. Okay.
So then you fold it over, right? And you put it into a contractor bag.
Now this might not sound too crazy,
but what it does is that you then fill that contractor bag with say,
depending on how tall the contractor is like six or nine bags. Okay.
Okay. And so here's, here's where a bunch of people fuck it up in my opinion,
right? Is that it is most people when they take it down off the line,
they just throw it as is into a, into a plastic bin. Yeah.
Build the band, shut the bin. That's a super common way. Right. Yeah.
Well the reason why I don't like that is because what happens is,
is you have all that extra stem and you have all that extra family, right?
Yeah. And that shit smells like, Hey, yeah,
it really does. That's the stuff that smells like chlorophyll.
That's the stuff that smells green.
That's the stuff that has all the aromas that you don't want.
And when you put a bunch of weed or anything into a sealed container,
a lot of times all that aroma tries to equalize itself. Yeah.
So you're going to send that aroma all the way through your week. Yeah. Right.
So by picking off most of the big families and then by chopping the excess stem
off and just leaving it on stem chunks that are big enough to fit in the bag,
you remove most of that.
And so the vast majority of what's in that paper bag is either sweet leaf or
flower with some associated stem. Right. Yeah.
And then you fill that thing up and you turn it over and you put it in there.
Okay. So here's where it's also different than bin tech. Yeah.
Right. In a bin, most people use like the black and yellow totes, right? Yeah.
They're like 25 or 30 gallons. Okay. Yeah.
So you fill one of those up and you put a lid on and there's nowhere for it to
breathe. And it's two feet of cannabis weighing down on the bottom.
Yeah. So what does that bot, what does that bottom third like?
It's got weight pushing down on it. It's got moisture pushing down on it.
There's nowhere for it to breathe. Right.
So if you put like six or nine paper bags into a contractor,
they they stack, they hold their shape. Yep.
Right. They hold their shape.
So you never have a few thousand grams weighing down on the bottom.
Yeah. There is there, you know what I'm saying? Yeah. You know,
because they stack and that paper holds its shape and the paper. Okay.
Um, the paper actually is porous.
Yes. It's not like a bin.
So instead of a bin where you have two or three or four pounds, you know,
of, of weed stuffed into a bin and then sealed and there's no breathability.
Yeah. All those bags get to breathe. Yeah.
And that breathing is what brings the moisture slowly from the center to the
outside. Okay. Right. So then you can,
you can put it in there, right. And, and you can tie it off.
And if you did it just the right way,
it'll stay stable like that for straight up weeks to months. Oh yeah.
A hundred percent. Okay. And I've done,
I've done like experiments with friends or whatever, where like, you know,
you trim some up within a few weeks and two months later you go
back and all the stuff that was still in the paper bags has a bunch of turps
Yeah. Where, where the stuff that got trimmed just started to ox oxidize. Right.
And so there's an aspect there where the reason why we came to this is that for
one, you don't end up with a million bins that reek,
that you have to sterilize and clean all the time.
You end up with like super light contractor bags and paper bags. Yeah.
And let's say you seal up the contractor bag and it's like you open it up and
you fucked up and you were a little too fast and it's a little too moist. Right.
You can then just open and leave the contractor bag open. Yeah. Right.
Then if it's, if you really fucked up,
you might have to take those bags out of the contractor. Yeah.
But then they all breathe. Yeah. So you can open them up. Right.
And then if you really messed up and you were too aggressive about it and you
feel down there and it feels wet and damp and uncomfortable, right. Yeah.
You can actually take an empty paper bag and your full one and you can dump it in
there and now the bottom is the top. Yeah. Right.
You just fluffed it essentially. And you can do that one by one to all of them.
That's only if you screw up and you realize that after you've sealed it up for
a day, it's not as stable as you want it to be.
There was too much moisture in there and it actually got rewet.
And then you get it to the moisture level you want,
you can seal it back up and you can put it in there. And you know,
I've had a situation where like a lot of times in outdoor season in the fall,
it took us quite a while to get through all the work. Yeah.
So you had to store it in such a way that you could you know, you,
you would, you would keep the quality.
Yeah. And that definitely made it all the way to our parties and shit.
Cause I remember smoking that, you know, after fact,
and it was still just amazing.
Oh that first year, especially Pip and myself and, and home, you know,
the friends like we went and all that weed in those, in those bags and jars,
we pulled out of that's why most of it was on trend, you know,
or partially trend.
We just pulled it out of the bags just like that tech and it had been sitting in
there for two months. Yeah. And most of our close friends, to be perfectly honest,
and even in our circle and our discord and stuff like that,
that have tried this method, keep using it. There's ways you can refine it.
I kind of skimmed over a certain parts,
but cause there's depths and there's things that can come up.
But as far as like a modular, small, the large scale way,
right. A lot of times people,
like they talk about curing and turkey bags or curing in the jar.
You're actually not really curing your fermenting. Yes. Yeah.
You're exchanging gas when people talk about burping,
that's not actually curing, you know,
what makes it fermenting as opposed to curing.
There's this, there's this, I mean, it's like, I don't want to,
I don't want to misspeak and have somebody jump in that knows more than me
about it. But, but, but in general,
what it boils down to is there's some acts,
there's some interplay between each of the flowers being
connected to the stem. Yeah.
That doesn't mean you can't put it in a jar and it improves over the first few
weeks in the jar too.
I'm just saying that like a lot of times people think they remove it from all,
they remove it from the stem way too fast. Yeah. And like,
if you let that, that few weeks, I would even tell people like,
once you put it in that contractor, just leave it alone for a week. Yeah.
Leave it alone for 10 days and then go back to it and then trim it.
And we've had, we've had a bunch of friends that have tried it. Right.
They all keep using it and they all feel like it improved their personal smoke.
Yeah. Yeah. Right. That's why I wanted you to tell it. It's important.
So, so yeah, there's an aspect and there's, there's, there's parts of it where,
you know, like, like I said,
I glossed over certain things cause it's kind of long and involved.
And then you could ask a bunch of detailed questions and stuff that went on.
And I wasn't trying to like drown people in, uh,
but anybody can reach out about it. Cause I want people to have better weed.
And there, it is true low and slow,
but I definitely think there's drying and there's curing and then there's
jarring and a lot of people just dry and jar.
Yeah. And they miss that middle part. Yep.
And it doesn't mean your weed's not good. I'm not dissing your weed.
I'm just saying that like I've found, you know,
for a lot of the things that I grow,
that I get better flavor profiles when you give that plant a week or 10 days or
two weeks to interplay between the stem and the flower and back and forth and
all that and cure in a big pile into itself. Yeah.
You know, um, because back in the day when things moved really fast, um,
a lot of times people would, I just smoked some in New York. People would, uh,
they would just dry weed as fast as they could get it to market. Yep.
And it would have a little bit of that chlorophyll tang.
I had somebody try to tell me it was like, they,
they only smoke it like that because after two weeks the live terpenes fade.
Oh, okay. And I was like, yeah,
I've smoked plenty of weed that was dried fast for commercial purposes.
I get it. You know, like, yeah, yeah. You know? And so yeah,
people can be, you know, they're, yeah. Most people skip curing.
They go from right from drying, you know, right from drying to jarring,
right from jarring, right from drying to packaging, you know? Yeah. And, uh,
and this tech, it's like, it's really easy. It's all that stuff is really available.
It's nothing special. It doesn't take up a ton of space in your house.
You can condense, you can reuse the, the,
the paper bags multiple times if you treat them right. You know,
you can shove a ton of them into one or two contractors. It's light as a feather,
you know, it's modular, it's easy. It can fit in a closet.
It can fit in a garage. It can, they can stack on top of each other because.
And there's one thing like, and you pointed out,
sometimes you might need to fluff it,
but it's okay because not so it's a professional fluffer.
Yeah, indeed.
I've been trying to get that joke in for like five minutes.
Sometimes you need to go, sometimes you need to make, you know,
from bottom to top, you need to really just change up what's going on.
And you know, that's the thing is it's like when you do it perfect,
you don't have to do any of that.
I just wanted to go through like, because it is weird.
And we have close friends of ours that when we first,
when I first showed them how to do it, they thought they were putting it away.
Too wet. Yeah.
And a lot of times they don't realize that it stores really well like that.
But then sometimes it does get too wet.
Like it gets a little mushy or it's scary wet or whatever.
And you need to let it breathe.
And so there's a variety of ways you can let it breathe. And you know,
this is like, I just don't, I don't like plastic bins for a lot.
They don't breathe at all. And so what happens,
what happens in anaerobic environments? Yeah. Yeah.
It just creates stale air and moisture hanging.
And different times,
different kinds of processes happen in low oxygen versus higher oxygen
environments. Yeah. Yeah. You know? And so there's an,
there's an aspect of that where it's like,
so even if you screw up a few times,
there's like various ways you can get out of panic mode. Yeah.
Sometimes all I had to do was just open the top of my contractor and leave it
in the living room for, you know, a night or half a day.
And all of a sudden the excess moisture had breathed and escaped, you know,
those paper bags are dry.
So like they will absorb a little bit of excess moisture without becoming damp,
you know? So that helps too. And you know, there's,
there's just,
it just keeps the weight because that's what you don't want is you don't want
pressure and low oxygen. And you know,
you want things to be able to breathe.
You want things to be able to like slowly take that last bit of moisture out
from the center of the buds and from the center of the stems and bring it out
into the flower. Yeah. And I think, you know, your, your weed burns better,
you know, your weed burns better. It tastes better.
I've grown a lot of strains over a long period of time and I have a lot of
repeats. And so, you know, you,
you grow it one way for a while and you're like, Oh, I killed it.
And you grow this other way and you, you don't get the trim,
you don't get the dry right. And then you're like, Oh, I fucked it up. Yeah.
Now it's not as good.
Now my weed that's like three months old still burns a little nicer than this
weed that I just got fresh. Yeah. And so you, you know,
and then your friends do that too. And then you have feedback loops and then,
you know, and then you, you go through. And so there's a lot of things.
People can get all tech and you can go to like moisture in the buds and higher
meters. I'm giving you like Hill tech.
I'm giving you like observational tech that's basically by experience and by
feel.
And then you have some basic ground rules on when not to panic about it.
Yeah. Right. And you know,
we have a buddy too that like is people were talking about elevation earlier as
well. I mean, we have a, we have a good friend of ours that we worked through it.
And he lives in very high elevation.
And his weed dried way too fast. Yeah. Yeah.
Way, way too fast.
And we were able to really slow it down and get cures and he's ecstatic.
Good. Yeah. So I'm not saying it's like, this is like the be all end all.
I'm just saying that it's worked for me and my friends for a long period of
time. It's an excellent way to cure weed.
I did bring a bunch of weed to the can illuminati parties dried because the
can illuminati parties were in December. Yeah.
Most of that weed came down in October or November.
So it was one to two months old by the time that you guys got ahold of it.
Yeah.
And all the weed that I brought,
whether it was trimmed or untrimmed all went through that whole process. Yeah.
And I really do think it brings out quality.
It's definitely a way to like not screw it up at the end.
Yeah. Like as far as far as our group goes,
like it seems like everybody kind of contributes one,
some more than one, but everybody kind of brings one major thing to the table.
And when I think a not so his drying tech is the one thing I think he's brought
to the table that's changed it for our group as a whole.
So that's why I wanted to bring it up because this is a lot of skilled people
in our group. And if it's, if it's changing their minds,
it might be something that other people are into too.
Yeah. And there's, you know, there's, there's,
there's patterns to it or whatever,
and there's ways you can adapt it here and there. And so there's, I don't know,
I just,
I've just found it to be really flexible and I haven't found anything that gives
me better quality weed. It's not done at all on the commercial market.
And I think the commercial market suffers for it. You know,
the whole curing aspect and the whole treating it nice for a bit.
That seems to be, you know, shoved away to efficiency. Yeah. And then if you,
the problem is if you mess it up, you can always rehydrate weed,
but it's never the same as if you dried it low and slow and got it sticky.
If you can get it a certain stickiness and a certain ratio it can stay good like
that for a really long time. And if you get it overly dry,
which a lot of people used to do, and then they'd re-moisten for sale,
it'll be all right for a week or two, but not that long.
And then it'll go back to being a lot blander. You know,
so if you do it the right way,
you can get like a weird sponginess that has enough give to have some moisture in
it. And, but enough, you know, but it's really well cured.
Yeah. And not so much that it just goes poof in your hand.
Yeah. If you hear crunching, that's not that great.
You don't want to hear crunch. You know, I mean the, the, the, you know,
it'll probably still get you high, but a lot of delicate,
a lot of delicate terpenes, orange peels in the sack, all that shit.
That's all failure. Yeah. I mean, I'm not saying it doesn't work.
Don't get me wrong, but I'm saying like your weed is never as good if you have
to rehydrate it. Yeah. If you have to rehydrate it,
you didn't store it the right way. Yeah. You know? Um,
you know, yeah. People saying this didn't,
it didn't work at scale on his 30 lighter. That's ridiculous. I mean, I, like,
you know, uh, I mean,
I did it with like when we,
when Mendo first went legal and we were allowed 10,000 square feet,
which is far larger than a 30 lighter, you know? Um,
it's small by today's standards right now, but still, um, you know, it's, it's,
it's a chunk of pounds. Yeah. So it works, you know? Um,
and then on top of this too,
it's really easy to do this at a small scale for everybody that's just trying to
smoke better weed. Yeah, totally. You know, if you might only have,
you might only have one or two or three contractors or something, you know,
if you're just growing for your personal smoke and it's for you or whatever,
like then it's really easy to like baby it and then you'll really see. Yeah,
for sure. You know,
and there might be a time too when people want to experiment with it or whatever,
where like they get to a point where, um, you know, you might end up like,
if, especially if it's just for you,
you might end up like trimming some and then leave half the bag cured and super
nice and a cool spot that's dry. Yeah.
And go check on your weed a month later and see if you like the weed in your
jar better or see if you like the, the,
the flower you just broke off the branch and rolled a joint with.
You might be surprised. Yeah. I know, I know.
Bodie has this perfect room, um, or did at his house.
That was like a humidor and cause where he lived is just that perfect. Oh yeah.
There's some weed in there from like a long time. Years. Yeah.
And, and it's all hanging and it's on the branch and you know,
like I've noticed even with seeds, like if they're stored in their bud,
they last longer. It's like a natural protection for it. So, you know,
I think there's a lot of good aspects,
even if you're just making seeds and drying seeds,
there's a lot of good aspects to keeping it on the branch.
Oh, we used to, we used to bury our seed and, um,
in a 55 gallon drums and it would all be on the Cola. Yeah.
You wouldn't de-seed it. You would store it, you know, on a dry Cola. Yeah.
It makes it great. It makes great storage. It makes great storage. They're not,
they're not rubbing up against each other. I mean,
a lot of people don't know this, right. But, uh, you know,
Caleb and I were just talking about it where like that tiger stripe rubs off.
Oh yeah. It's a thin layer. It's not an, it's,
it's more like a super thin tight fitting skin shell than it is like an embossed
feature of a hard shell. So if you, people that start people that like,
hand harvest their seeds and all that, and they treat them really lightly,
they could end up getting all these dark tiger stripes.
You start putting them through like a blower and sifting them really nice and
doing all this extra work to make sure people get perfect seeds.
And all of a sudden you could end up with some pale seeds that were dark before.
Yeah.
Because they lost their tiger stripe because it just frictioned off.
It's a thin, um, almost transparent skin with dark stripes. So yeah,
it washed it come off seeds constantly. Yeah.
And a lot of us use blowers that make a lot of seed.
So yeah.
And what's interesting is I was actually just talking the last few weeks to a,
to a Jamaican who was telling me about how they store seeds and they can't bury
them. They store them in, in, in big 55 gallon drums in Jamaica.
And they store them basically either on bud or in the shake.
That makes sense. Even in the shake.
Because it acts like a natural insulation and protects it from the heat
and it works way.
They'd rather have a big drum full of shake and seed than a big,
or you know, buds and seed than a big thing, just full of seed.
Because it'll die.
Someone asked, is it a more indica trait tiger stripes?
I've noticed it a lot in Afghanis and things,
the bigger seeds that I see typically from Afghanis,
but it's not a general trait you can apply like that.
One of the, but nevermind, go on.
No, as you can say, a lot of the land race,
like Africans and Malawis, they tend to be smaller black seeds.
Yeah. And what I've noticed.
It also depends on what the mother was. Right. So,
you know, you, if you're, you know,
if your seeds are forming in some kind of equatorial sativa,
they're going to tend to be smaller because the flower clusters and the calyxes
they're forming in are also small.
Yeah. And it depends on when it's pollinated and where on the plant it's
pollinated, how big the seed is. There's so many things that go into factors,
but like the tiger striping,
you don't see it a ton in traditional land race,
narrow leaf plants.
And there was an aspect where there was for a long time,
there was a misnomer among the community where, you know,
if it wasn't tiger striped enough,
that means you didn't let it go to full maturity and you were trying to sell
young or immature seeds or you were trying to cheat a bit or whatever.
And so there's a thing with seeds where people are very visual. Yeah.
And you know, we have, you know,
we have friends or whatever that like won't sell the pale ones,
even though they get crazy germ rates on them.
Yeah. I, I,
I kept a lot of lines off the market that were just light or lost their stripes
in the blower.
They just kept them off the market because I knew it'd be more of a pain in
the ass to explain all that and teach every single person then to do that.
Oh my God. Color-coded seeds.
If you go to, if you go to greenhouse's site on their accomplishments,
the color-coded seeds is one of the top.
I don't go to greenhouse's site. Although I will say, I did before I,
before I dissed them too hard that when I was traveling in the nineties to
Holland a bunch, um, they had a great coffee shop in the nineties.
Yeah.
I mean, I, I started talking shit about greenhouse and all of a sudden I was
banned from the internet. Yeah. That was crazy.
So let's finish it up. We're right there at the two hour.
I saw you. I tried, kept trying to join, but it kept telling me to fuck off.
So I don't know what the deal is, but yeah, I mean, uh, before I, uh,
maybe it'll cut me off again. I, uh, I did enjoy my time going to greenhouse.
Uh, I did like it when Shanti and Neville sold seeds and weed there. Um,
I, you know, I don't really appreciate what happened after or whatever, but,
um, we covered a bunch of stuff.
We just tried to give an idea of like what your thoughts could be on like a
multi-stage breeding project. Uh, we tried to go over what it would look like.
Um, breeding tech, random bullshit.
So I appreciate everybody that's staying with us. Yeah. I got kicked.
It's all good. Yeah. Um, breeders need to get Patreon, go Google that,
come join us, uh, right.
For all your feminized reversal spray.
If you want to make them seeds like we talked about tonight,
all the instructions are up there and it's 40% off right now using code
invisible 40. Um, we have some cool stuff coming up soon,
so be sure to check it out.
We'll have these up on all of the podcast platforms very shortly,
probably in the next two hours. Uh,
it'll be up on YouTube as well as SoundCloud iTunes, all that shit. So yeah,
we hope you enjoyed it.
And you can always reach out to me on either discord or on IG for follow up
questions or anything like that. And, uh,
always send us your ideas and your thoughts about what you want to hear and what
you want to talk about. So, you know,
thank you once again for your Friday night as always. Yep. Thank you everyone.
Peace. Good night.
Want more breeder syndicate?
Be sure to check out our Patreon by going to Google and searching breeder
syndicate Patreon.
We have a secret discord where we are available at most times and interact
daily. There are a lot of perks to be had there. So check it out. Need seeds,
check out riot seeds.com where you can get our seeds and our reversal spray for
making your own feminized seeds.
