What's up everyone? I had to, as I've been editing the podcast and shit I realized I
need to do an intro. So before we start I will be attempting to read a lame intro
so at least, yeah, so at least it sounds professional a little bit. Tell your wife
hi from us. What's up everyone? Yeah this is gonna feel weird trying to read an
intro but I'm trying to make it a little bit more a little bit more professional. I
don't know I'm actually using the Shure mic on my phone today too so hopefully
it sounds clear. Does it sound pretty decent everyone? Because some of my
recordings kind of suck. I know. Yeah the trainwreck stuff is is looking fucking
amazing. You can always pre-record the intro and splat it. I guess I could do that. I
guess I could but I also noticed that I need to I need to like make a clap so I
know where the start is cuz I bullshit a lot at the beginning you know like that.
So I will tell the wife when she brings me some coffee. She said she was
gonna do that soon. Not the riot reversal spray spill. A little about my
reversal spray. I don't even think I ever plug my reversal spray. I hardly talk
about it anymore and I probably should. I probably should plug it. It's just uh
you know I don't know. We've got history to talk right? Yeah the blue dream
trainwreck looks awesome. Looks really awesome. I'm gonna be able to try some of
it here very soon and I'll give a full review report on all of it. Yes they're
Femmes. They're all all the all the reversals of the Arcade Trainwreck
stuff for Femmes. So we're just waiting for Crybaby. Not so dog may or may not
join at some point tonight. He's on a he's on a mission from God is what he's
on. He's on a mission from God. He is retrieving a lost train we think but
it'll be it'll be a while till we can verify it but we'll see. We'll see we got.
Did you say you had to rename Blue Acid to Trademark Chat? Yes that was the one.
Yeah someone told me they had it trademarked and blah blah blah and they
really didn't but it was just silly. They thought they owned the name. They were a
brand new company. Yeah anyways. They weren't bad people. They were
actually pretty nice in the end. What do you think of old-school genetics? I have
no no clue. Yeah just waiting for Crybaby now unless he's in here. If
you're in here Crybaby say something. So I see ya. So I see ya. What's up Space
Invaders? Where's your crown? Where's that crown?
Man fist destiny. That shit was great. That shit was great.
Motherfuckers brought. Oh Blucifer. Oh my god I did say Blue Acid. It was Blucifer
huh? Yeah I'm a fucking pendejo. I can't say which one it's gonna be that he's
getting but it needless to say it's one that we thought was dead. A very
important one in his history and past that we thought was dead. So yeah but we
don't know. I mean it comes from an old friend. I'll let him tell the story if he
ever wants to. Blucifer. Blucifer was the one. Yes that is correct. Very correct.
Blucifer was the one not Blue Acid. Blue Acid is the Irene Bagsy. Blucifer was the
name for it and the dude got super mad at first. Then he was kind of a Chad so
he became trademark Chad. Yeah no.
Okay let's see where is Crybaby? Where is Crybaby? Is he in here? Cry? He's not in
here yet. So we'll just wait on him and then I'll read this spiel and yeah there
we go. Yeah that's a good idea for the podcast just record it separately huh? So
I don't have to read it every time different and fumble on my words. I tried
to make a commercial earlier and I cannot like I can do this while I'm here
talking to you guys so I'm not looking at my own face I'm looking down and
looking at the words and shit but it feels real silly when you're trying to
do a commercial and you're staring at your own face. I don't know how people do
that. Mamba supposedly to be a clone. I know what you're talking about. Pretty
sure I know what you're talking about. It's another cut from Incognito who
brought the fake M3 and fake MSS and fake all of those shit. NotsoS1 the LA
Kush. I don't know. I don't know. When he decides to do it. When he decides. I don't
know. I don't know. He's a space cadet like me. We get things done at like
stoner speed. You know just is what it is. Nobody looks cool vaping. What can we do
in the meantime as I stare at my ball. This is Space Invader. He's growing some
blueberry punch and I know a lot of times you guys you know I've talked
about the the blue bonnet male and how when I first saw it it kind of just
stuck its arms up like this you know like 90 degree angles and all the other
plants you know they'd be praying and shit but this one was always like this
no matter what no matter the hell 90 degrees up and funnily enough that
trait passed through to this blueberry punch and it just like has constant
fan leaf boners. So yeah I thought that was pretty cool to see. Thank you for
taking pics of that Space Invader. Hunter Biden looks cool vaping I bet. New site
new sites almost done we have it up but I need to set the payments and stuff but
yeah it's done it's ugly as fuck right now too but I just don't really care you
know like I'll worry about that later. What are you gonna do with the blue lines Matt?
Like filial work with bubble berry and cherry berry and stuff? I really really
want to do filial work with bubble berry and I'd like to do it with several of
the blue lines. Am I cutting in and out for anyone other than Jim? Let me know.
See how bad the lag is too. Anybody? Okay okay good. Yeah I forgot where I was.
Oh but but like blue lines sell to some people you know like some people you
know it's not like something a lot of people are interested in like a lot of
people have had bad experiences with blueberry don't ever want to take a
chance on it again so working it further I mean I'd love to do it and I
that's if if I could I would but yeah is what it is it's not it's not financially
reasonable to do that. Yeah I know CB eight minutes late he's showing up
fucking class classily late. Yeah please. No not yet. Crybaby? Yeah if you can.
You know well no I just talked to him right before this he knew said he was
gonna have a cigarette. You find a crinkle leaf expressions the mob blue
bonnet. No but I'm sure they're in there blue has has crinkle expressions in it.
Great crush was super prevalent with that. What turd makes you late? I don't
know we're about to find out. Yeah can we see what comes out Tennessee stud
you know there's a lot of terpene in the line so you will get some blue dreamy
smelling stuff. Maybe I should do the terpene show just solo it you know I'm
really really good at terpenes. Everything's a terpene. Everything's a
terpene. Just kidding I don't know shit about terpenes so that would be real
bad. Beautiful. Let's get started. Actually you know what I will do before
we get started hopefully this will take up some time. This is what the the kit
from Crybaby comes in. Very nice. It's called paraphernalia. I don't even know
how to pronounce that word paraphernalia. In the box you will get
one little case it comes with a fucking cute little patch like he actually put a
lot of time and effort into this packaging for this. They're really
fucking nice super fucking nice and in the kit you'll see oh wait I already had
it open. You will see a bunch of little files all labeled clearly. You'll get
a bunch of cards with those files or I think this is a notebook for taking
notes and a pen and something else in there but you'll also get these detailed
note cards which are very important. They break down the aroma compounds.
Esters and lactones you know ketones aldehydes and phenolics terpenoids and
then it lists each one and talks about it individually. So yeah these are pretty
amazing kits. I was really proud of him how well well done he made these. Really
really proud of him. So if you're really into weed and you're a real fucking weed
dork then you want to get in on these for sure because like it makes it easier
to talk about with other people when you can explain between two people when you
have verbiage to explain what you're smelling more detailed verbiage. But
what's interesting is we all smell things a little bit differently so I was
hoping tonight we could show that you know get a good example of it you know
as we go through. Where? When he gets on we will have him tell where. Hopefully
we'll carry some on the site as well and make it nice and easy for you. Also
there's some bottles in here I haven't opened it to see what these bottles are
but there are some glass bottles some gloves different little smell strips all
kinds of stuff in here. So that's that's going through the kit real quick.
You just mainly you just shoot it up you find find the best vein and you just
shoot the terpene straight into your vein and I'm just kidding because I don't want to get sued for a joke. I'm just kidding. You would never do that. You would never do that with terpenes.
You would never do that with drugs. Come on now. Yeah there it is. Thank You Panda paraphernalia social club.
That's where you can buy it. That's where you can get the kit. I have no idea how
much they are or anything like that but I guarantee they're not as expensive as
they could be and it's probably worth every penny. Where in the fuck is CB?
Will someone go in the back channels and tell him to hurry? He's 13 minutes late.
So you guys got any other questions about other shit? Natsa is traveling right now
and we were hoping that he would make his way to a hotel by the time we start
but it was kind of like he's got a long drive. He had to drive out of state to go
pick this up. So yeah he may jump in at some point if Crybaby shows up to have a
show but we will find out. Thank You Bryn. Ever heard of Sapphire Cush? No I haven't.
My vintage afghan. I don't have a vintage afghan. I have an heirloom afghan
and it's all sold out. We're doing a reproduction right now. Why do people hate
Jack Terp? You're referring to terpinaline. I don't know some people get overdosed on
terpinaline. I love it. I love terpinaline. It makes it makes things flavorful. What was
the G13 NL2 like in a Tennessee stud? It was a very large yielding semi terpinaline
semi kind of sweet danky old-style Afghani. And waiting on me? He's not even
he has to speak so I know he's in here. What does he mean he's waiting on me?
How am I not oh you know what I wonder if I'm not seeing all the messages. There you are
beautiful. Look gorgeous. Hold on I gotta figure out something. I think it's only
showing me some of the comments. Sometimes I have to change something. I honestly never see all of
it like I see you respond to shit that I don't even see all the time. Damn it. There's somewhere
there's a switch where it let me do it yesterday to show all comments. Anyways fuck it. All right.
Boom we're ready. Okay I have to read something first because I'm trying to be more professionals
so when we fire up the podcast yeah so what's there? By all means. All right. Welcome to Breeders
Syndicate where we explore the history of a clandestine scene through the eyes of the folks
who lived it. I'm Matt owner of Riot Seeds. This is NotSoDog who isn't here right now and he may
show up. The Forrest Gump of cannabis. Welcome to the underground. There we go that works. This is
Crybaby from Crybaby Organics. We're going to be going over terpenes in his terpene kit today.
I went over just kind of in detail what was in it but if you want to go over it again in detail
where you want to illustrate it. I'll be better. Like do you want me to go through it like step
by step what's all in it or like I can do the individual compounds or I can just kind of cover
the groups. It doesn't matter we got all the time in the world man however you want to do it.
Well as far as what's in the kit the general groups are terpenoids which covers terpenes and
terpenoids. A group that covers ketones aldehydes and all compounds group that covers esters
and lactones all lactones are actually esters. That's the one. There you go. And the red which
generally is just a variety of other aromatic compounds whether that's like pyrazines aromatic
alcohol some of those nasty acids we've talked about that's on the red section. But as far as
like the terpenoid section the first 30 are generally what you see on most testing panels.
The top 30 that you might see from a steep hill or a C labs and then the following 10 green
kind of take you a little bit deeper with some of the terpenoids are less common and then the rest
of the kit kind of starts to go into starts to go into the nature of just sense in our world things
that we're familiar with things that are prolific and shaping key things that we know whether that's
chocolate whether that's coffee whether that's the nasty odors from certain cheeses. Yeah.
More of a worldly approach to it and a less cannabis centrified approach.
Awesome. Okay. What do you want to start as far as going through these and and introducing people
to these. Well you want to start with one of the cards so we can break down that way and make it
nice and easy for people who get the kit. Sure. The question is do I have a car like a physical
set of cards on me right now. I don't but if you hold up yours I could go over the gut. I think
they're going to be backwards for you though. If I hold them up I'll figure it out. Okay. Which one
do you want to start with with the green ones. Yeah let's just start at green number one because
it's going to have a lot of the shit that people are really familiar with. I was going to have your
your mercy is going to have your. Yeah. There we go. Yeah. Right here. So we can start with number
Alpha Pinene. Something that comes up quite regularly. Am I supposed to smell this or is
it dangerous to smell these. Oh it's not dangerous to smell any of them. Okay. I wanted to make sure
I wasn't going to like give myself a headache. It's not pleasant to smell all of them but it's
not dangerous to smell any of them. Do I remove the plastic thing in here. Yeah yeah that's the
stopper that's how it doesn't leak in transit. Okay cool. Okay. So I'm going to start with
Okay cool. I want to make sure I do it without splashing it because I'm an idiot.
There we go. Well if you do splash it that one's not so dangerous. Okay. Piney. Yeah.
Yes. Alpha Pinene that makes sense. All the sense in the world. It's fucking piney right man. Yeah.
Um foresty. It reminds me of something very specific that's not pine.
Almost like Christmasy but not pine. I don't know it's weird. Bren get in here.
Well Alpha Pinene is actually um one of the key you know odor compounds and a lot of things beyond
just pines but obviously was named for its prolific appearance and tons of pines and huge amounts.
But yeah. The same time I mean all that their pinenes were as well. So what what other stuff
is it is it well known for being in? It says pine turpentine trees rosemary cypress juniper
frankincense cumin coriander mint basil hops and orange. Yep. Um well I guess one of the really
big ones is always going to be frankincense. Because you know beneath the frankincense
specific compounds that are really you know endemic to frankincense to boswellia the whole
you know genius alone. It's really a molding factor for endless species of frankincense.
Yeah. That you smell the limonene and then you smell the incensy compounds which are actually
some rare uh diterbenes. Diterbenes called uh incensal and then there's a acetate ester form
called incensal acetate. That's what gives it the real incensy smell but the backbone
when you break up a big rock of frankincense you get a lot of that alpha pinene and it's
something that a lot of people really like from frankincense. It gives them that experience.
Yeah you can't smell it without the stopper in it. Here we go. Brynn what do you smell?
Smells good. It's deeper than christmas tree. It's deeper. Yeah. It's heavier.
It smells foresty. That's the best way I can say it. Like a mixture of everything.
But there's earthy in it too. Yeah. It smells good like mosses.
Okay let's go to number two. Beta pinene. Another.
Constitutional isomer of pinene just like alpha pinene. Okay. A little bit softer of a scent in
my opinion. I think that there is a more almost like a camphor-y lift to alpha pinene and maybe
a little mint in there too. Maybe a little mint in there. And beta pinene is a lot more subdued.
Softer. It's still going to have that trademark pine scent but it is more subdued.
I'm trying to be so careful with these plugs. Don't you spill that.
Oh interesting yeah I do smell some of the mint. Definitely smell it.
I see a comment. Can one of you cowley boys send me some pliny? I have not had a bottle of pliny
in fucking years now. I am so sorry. What do you smell Brian?
Kris Kringle's nut sack. Kris Kringle's nut sack. Kris Kringle's nut sack. Okay that is beta pinene.
Okay and this is commonly found in pine, turpentine trees, rosemary, ginseng, cypress, juniper. A lot
of the same stuff then yeah? Yeah a lot of times with closely related constitutional isomers like
your alpha and beta pinene, like your alpha delta and gamma turpine, a lot of times they occur
within the same as you know someone might expect. Sometimes they don't. Sometimes a plant might have
an abundance of one and almost none or actually none of the other. But a lot of times you see
these isomers appear together and of course you see products of oxidation from them appear with
them as well. Like you know linoleic appears with linoleic oxide. Caryophyllene appears with
caryophyllene oxide. But yeah those you'll see a lot of them in the same stuff. A lot of related
things are found in the same natural sources. Now as we go through these I saw you know someone
asked can you talk about the specific effects it has on humans? Like is it good for pain memory?
For each one like is there even science exactly proving any of that yet?
So with some things especially when it has to do with cancer, organizations like Sloan Kettering,
Mayo Clinic, obviously you know some you know studies and facilities in Asia that kind of
join Eastern and Western medicine. There is some credible academic research for certain things.
And then you have to even break it down further. Okay this is credible research. This is done
right. But is this applicable in any real world scenario? Because a lot of times
we're kind of guessing with this shit and obviously since physiological responses to
any compound can you know vary greatly from person to person. I am really just like 100%
hesitant all the time to say this will affect you this way. Obviously there's some anecdote you
know if nine out of ten people who smoke terpidoline dominant strain all say oh yeah
all the tealing shit makes me all giddy and it makes me want to work. You can't discredit that.
But I'm not personally going to ever ascribe any sort of physiological effect or medical use to it
just because I'm not a doctor and a lot of the research is shaky. We're still using an aromatherapy
anecdote to describe what things do. You know someone will be like oh yeah for the past 200
years people have said that you know putting this essential oil on you is calm so be calming. So
someone identifies the main compound from it and says okay that has that calming effect. Yeah. And
not only would that be variable for a number of reasons from chemical composition what these
compounds actually are broken down to you know personal you know just you being you and you
having your own issues from health and mental health. I just I try not to. There's tons of
research for people who want to look into that and I highly suggest they kind of get an idea of
what's actually applicable in a real sense versus you know someone saying oh I've seen this do this
in a petri dish fucking you know whatever you know I've seen these you know in marker responses.
I don't I don't want to do that. There's a lot of people who feel comfortable with it and
they should do it. Yeah. Yeah. That's what I figured. I mean it's just like
in a lot of these compounds they say it does a certain thing because of aromatherapy but
aromatherapy isn't smoking and inhaling you know what I mean like it's really hard to pass all this
over and with all the brain chemistries people don't take into account you know like what if
they're taking x pill or y pill and you know doing this that changes everything it changes
your brain chemistry. Yeah you know I posted something on my Instagram not too long ago about
like I guess how you would actually approach these kinds of things and they basically locked a rat
in a fucking you know case. Yeah. You know pumped in rare agarwood smoke identifying any sort of
antagonistic compound for serotonin within that smoke and then they measured you know the serum
serotonin levels of these rats. So you know there's studies like that where they can say
oh exposure to the smoke measurably increases serotonin in this animal and that's you know
less disputable than or at least more viable than lavender oil makes you calm so little. Yeah for
sure yeah so it's all it's all with that and I just I try to avoid the like fake doctor shit you
know what I mean? Yes. Like so many people want to fucking sell you their lines want to sell you
their shit under the guise that this will do this but I mean it doesn't really work like that now
does it? If it worked all the people who are making custom blends for these pens and shit
their pens wouldn't be working exactly the same with the same effects on people despite their
broad range of terpenes as base materials to make them. Yeah it's a little deeper than that and
if we make it there tonight we can start talking like kind of unraveling why should it work the same
but I guess let's keep going with some of the good comments. One of the ones I've been talking
about the past few days uh beta murci. This one. Oh that's wild. It's an interesting smell right not
what you would expect. No no like I immediately was expecting to smell like berry because that's
what I'm associating with in my head like this blueberry I know tests it's it falls into the
murci predominantly. This is like you I can smell berry in there but I smell so many other things.
Yeah it's it's a real complex one and you can smell broken elements of so many different things
because murci isn't so many things like you can smell the broken elements of a mango it doesn't
smell like mango yeah you smell the mango how that contributes to the scent of mango. Oh my god
it's fun right but yeah you know people are constantly told this or that I'm not gonna you
know I'm not gonna take any low roads tonight but you know people are told everything from
murci and smells like skunk to murci and smells like mango to any of these numbers of things and
I think that one of the great disconnects is a lot of people just haven't smelled it and you can
just put that shit to bed instantly if you do. If someone says murci and smells like skunk
and you smell it you can pretty much put that shit to bed. Yeah it's one of the most unique smells
it has so many smells in it that is wild I actually like there's unpleasant and there's
pleasant but it's like I keep wanting to smell it again. There's sweetness and there's waxiness
and there's a little spice. Waxiness for sure that's one of the smells yeah yeah I can see that.
Some people almost read it uh as like right bordering on a on a nisic like if yeah anise
wasn't anise yeah it's fucking weird that is a really weird smell. Okay next we have
delta terpinining. Delta terpinine your old friend. Yeah that's how you say it.
Let's see what we got here and what's this what's this one about? Um delta terpinine is terpinoline
oh this is terpinoline? Yeah. Oh my old love oh there it is oh my old love terpinoline.
It's a little more tropical than people think it is. Yeah you can smell almost a fruit hit in the
background. Yeah there's uh two of the other and then Bryn says it smells like bike tire on fire
and I can almost see some of that in the front end yeah. I can appreciate that too there's actually
two more terpinine isomers in the kit one is cool one is more tropical remember when I've always
like been like no there's this tropical tea leaf but yeah that one's in the kit and then where is
that one that is in the 30s or you know sorry man I've gone through so many it's all right oh let
me see if I can find it 34 and 35 are gamma and alpha terpinine. Let's see 30s is gonna be this
card this kit is so sick yeah baby thank you Bryn. Terpinine so 34 is gamma terpinine and then 35 is
alpha terpinine which I'm gonna try those so we can stay in the terpinoline category real quick.
Yeah and that's excited that's another set of compounds that uh appear in nature together
frequently a lot of citrus fruits a lot of um conifers you'll see you know one of them
dominantly in the profile um that one is more like gas to me I don't it's not it's like new
like rain boots yeah new rain boots yeah rubbery but I can smell it that's a weird one yeah
that is a fucking weird one
from here man some people haven't seen what this is and they've come in maybe hold it up
so they can see this for the people that have come in late this is what we're looking at crybaby's
um terpinoline kit and would you call it a terpinoline kit what would you call it
um I just call it a sun exploration kit because yeah once you get out of the green group it's not
uh terpenoids anymore yeah that's what I was just thinking so maybe maybe calling it a terpene kit
isn't exactly accurate I laid it out so that anything that you could call a terp stays in
the green category yeah and then everything else is not and I've talked about in the past that
there are monotropenic esters monotropenic alcohols okay a variety of things like that but
if it's not in the green it's not mono or sesquotropenic at all so is the that um 35 the
alpha terpene is that the one that is um the tropical one yeah okay yeah I get it I get it
that reminds me reminds me a little bit of amnesia haze yeah whatever that was smell like
the shit that you knocks it chloroform chloroform when you knock people out with it do you get that
a lot that's new but I no one's wrong the way people assess that isn't wrong sometimes yeah
with it and sometimes it's kind of funny but it's never wrong yeah exactly so next is going to be
limonene they'll they'll lemonade yep is is am I just going to smell lemon or is it more
complex than that it probably is huh I honestly think it's really linear for me it's that really
gnarly uh cleaner smell yeah yep like orange glow remember when they were yeah yeah pumping those
orange products yeah it's all yeah they're all liming to greasers so I mean it's uh no surprise
that they smell like it the other limonene the one that's really not so common in nature is
also gone there is what sorry I'm trying to look in the kid okay look off screen and shit
the other the other um limonene the one that doesn't occur so frequently in nature
um is also in there and I believe it's like 30 33 33 okay yeah l lemonade
limonene lemonade this could be if we put different things in this this could be like
a battleship like it's sink battleships I think someone mentioned that the connection with smell
and memory is really strong and oh yeah oh I like that one um lemony that affects your whole limbic
system it's not you know just the olfactory sensory neurons that are sending direct things
to your brain you're hitting memory you're hitting emotional states the whole works which is one of
the reasons that people craft such personal scent encyclopedias in their own head their metrics their
ideas of what things smell like are often far beyond just like critical analysis it smells like
this um which can you know draw other shins one of the reasons that people smell things so different
their idea of what this smells like is very memories and yeah started from a different place
so weird the aligning is the most common yeah um that or that or me or saying I mean
those are the ones you see it all the time we are on um linalool ah one of my old favorites
dinner that's a weird one so how does that smell to you some people think it smells like lavender
some people think it smells like fruity pebbles um like fruit loop cereal I see both right in the
middle there's something that uses that exactly I get it right down the middle so that was weird
I couldn't find before you said that though I couldn't find a word to even describe it
but once you said that like it was like okay I smelled the lavender and I smell pretty pebbles
it's fun when you kind of like get the prompts for both but um yeah it's it's a strange one
because a lot of natural uh linalool is kind of a balance of isomers it goes really really far in
one direction towards the other and the really big examples of it going all the way in opposite
directions is rosewood I don't know if you've ever smelled rosewood smells a lot like what you just
smelled okay smells a lot like number six and then the other side is the way that coriander
and cilantro smell something that people can't automatically place as a linalool voter but it
is and it's a very strong one so that kind of spicy floral woody that's the other side of
linalool's isomers that show up naturally I'm opening up um alpha humulin so this is hops right
yeah smell oh it's a faint smell it's not a strong smell I like that smell though I almost
smell cinnamon too or something weird in it it's clove clove clove I smell clove it's interesting
you say that because although I don't get that personally uh-huh do you see what the next uh
next in the kit is number eight yeah beta carophaline yeah so you know that uh humulin
alpha humulin is alpha carophaline yeah yeah oh is it yeah so it's surprising to see people but
it's but it's not a rare occurrence to see people kind of get almost a little piece of what something
could become or would be in a different lifetime because beta carry has the clove has the black
pepper sting and pepper smell them together you can smell how far and how close they really are
so this one is the beta carophaline that is interesting that is really complex again
it is that one that smells like a certain liquor like a certain liquor
oh I can smell something boozy in it sure yeah I like it yeah people that don't tend to like
cilantro smell soap yeah Bryn that kind of that kind of I got a little carrot in there
you got carrot at the end of it yeah okay um uh beta osamine
beta osamine give it a try okay it's a fun one it's it's not a bad one you'll like it
yeah it's kind of like sambuca that thing just shot away
right here yeah I don't smell much that's like blackjack gum
clove isn't blackjack gum clove
I don't know that's a hard one for me that's one of those smells that I don't really smell
you know I'm not really good at picking it up everyone has them whether they know it or not
everyone uh I saw a question that I thought I could answer really quick sure go ahead
deal with alpha versus beta in categorization alpha and beta um for example pining are
something called constitutional isomers that means that they don't have all the same
bonds but they have all the same constitutional elements so they're basically you know the two
pieces of pining pining exists in isomeric forms uh alpha beta and actually delta as well but it's
super rare in nature and you almost only ever see it synthesized in a lab but um yeah they're
actually different compounds and you you know if you look at something as far as like oh a
constitutional isomer it's the same compound but it's really not because at the same time
every um monoterapine is a constitutional isomer they're all they're all carbon 10 hydrogen 16
they're all the same shit but in those cases those are specified if you look at the actual um
like formulas and you know structures and information you'll notice that they are in
fact different not massively different but it's but it doesn't take a massive difference to be
totally different in smell right it doesn't in fact it takes even less of a difference than that
so within these constitutional isomers and i know i've touched on this on ig and it's like
but you have a a concept uh called chirality and basically besides these compounds that you
we kind of view as individual things not only have constitutional isomers but those
constitutional isomers can also be two pieces that are you know you to represent as one like
imagine like this is alpha pinene right yeah so it's really this and here's plus alpha pinene
and minus alpha pinene okay both of these things can have completely different smells across a
range of compounds not just the pineys they can have completely different smells they can have
completely different odor detection thresholds and impact which make them widely different
experiences on top yeah and uh and the variability of these things appearing in nature is massive i
was just reading some fucking uh chirality thing about trees in the amazon and it was basically
listing all of the things where they had seen a marked change in the isomers that make up things
like it specifically was alpha pinene they were seeing variations at different uh altitudes they
were seeing variations at different temperatures different times a year they were seeing complete
reversal of these things and that's not a big deal when as far as scent goes for things that
all of the pieces smell the same but when you deal with something where the pieces smell radically
different you're talking about the same plant the exact same plant producing a you know two
radically different versions of a compound throughout its life based on a number of variables
yeah so i mean you can't even promise that the same plant will produce the same version
of any of these compounds in different environments at different times a year under
different stressors which could be one of the reasons that we see such huge variation in fucking
you know the odors of clones between yeah yeah two people running them they could literally you know
both of these fucking you know myrcene dominant i shouldn't use that's a bad example those who's
pinene dominant fucking you know clones are producing different versions of alpha pinene
in these environments yeah that can like i said sometimes it's not a big change sometimes it's a
radical fucking change yeah you know 10 times more easily detected you know fucking
completely different in odor it's just there and there's some there's big fucking changes
is there is there such thing as terpenes never occurring to or occurring with each other in
cannabis like ones that just for whatever reason can't bond to the same plant or do we know about
anything like that i don't personally um cannabis has a really really incredible propensity for
showing that it can produce just about fucking anything cannabis produces shit that like within
the past hundred years we were 100 convinced was endemic to one species nothing else produces it
not not even a fucking option yeah you know a hundred years ago we thought that
nothing could produce santal on santalene at all only sandalwood because that's what makes sandalwood
and you know 10 years ago i saw fucking dna running tests with labs that you know were never
designed for cannabis so they had these big extensive panels for testing floral fucking
products and shit and they were hitting us with santalene you know we all kind of knew that there
was something there because two compounds exclusively are responsible for that odor an
odor which we know from cannabis like being that seeing cannabis produce things like guile and
guine which are incredibly rare in nature and basically limited to four or five other things
and these be such distinct and remarkable odors like the odor of a fucking or something i'm just
i'm not sure other than compounds that would have to be like for instance this compound exists in
cannabis because of a lack of or dysfunction at this other of this other synthase pathway
meaning that unless the compound exists because something else can't exist and as a product of
that i don't see a reason why you know just about anything couldn't come up together that makes
sense sorry i'm trying to look at no question where are we at finch i never even heard of
finchel uh yeah that's uh a fucking monotropenic alcohol pretty gnarly um so something that i
should bring up if i can is i should bring up the pdf that went with the kit so you would know the
concentration of what you're smelling because these are these aren't pure compounds and that's
kind of one of the most important things that people don't talk about is the variation of
impact between compounds i am at the computer so i should be able to pull this up well that's weird
yeah i don't know what that that's weird it's another it's another term hospital yeah it's not
a pleasant one i i don't think that's pleasant at all no it's not super pleasant but it's it's not
like foul to me it's not offensive i should say so here i'll put it in i'll put i'll start to put
in perspective for you that is that's two and a half percent concentration so it's it's a very
mild mild mild scent of it yeah um and you know for a reasonable comparison the beta-osamine you
just smelled was 25 and the beta-caryophyllene you just smelled was 50 okay so yeah so you're
yeah variable impact is really important um and just impact in general it's not something that
people talk about that much and it's one of the shortcomings of testing because you know for
testing to actually be effective as you know some way to imagine organoleptic qualities of what
you're looking at they would all have to be the exact same strength right yeah because if we look
at it on peaks and say oh this odor compound that is found at 10 percent in the test compared to
this one that's found at you know 0.1 but in reality that compound at 0.1 is magnitude stronger
odor wise than the one found at 10 you start to realize that there are more limitations about
actually kind of interpreting a test as far as organoleptic qualities there's lots of great ways
to interpret tests for purposes but as far as saying i'm gonna look at the top compounds found
on this test especially when canvas panels are like 30 things and they don't find yeah and that
you're not looking for it's really hard to guess and that was one of my big axes to grind when i
started seeing people you know show the little pictures and tell you what this thing was going
to smell like based on testing and it was basically just some sort of odor descriptor for
the top five things on the test but yeah if there's something lurking you know that's way
stronger as far as impact it's probably what you're going to smell first i mean honestly
half the shit that we talk about you know skunky shit gas shit i mean it's all very very small
amounts of it found and i mean some of it's small to the point that you know it takes specialized
machines specialized testing equipment to even find it that's you know everyone was talking about
the whole like oh vsc's and cannabis and i'm thinking to myself well where's the application
of that for the normal person when most labs you know can't dole out another fucking hundred million
dollars to buy them you know to buy the equipment so they can prep and and run all this shit and
who wants to pay for those panels that are five six times as much as it anyway so yeah
you know as we go through this you know you're getting pretty close to i guess like
midway through the most common you know things found on tests as a matter of fact all of them
found on some tests i mean by now it should be becoming more clear that a lot of what we smell
especially what we desire in cannabis is not covered by uh mono and sesquiterpenes and
terpenoids that we see on tests you know terpenes in general were named you know
for a specific reason i mean there's always arguments about etymology and first use but
they were made to designate things that came out of pines and shit you know yeah things from
turpentine that was the original you know idea of it arguably the original idea of it so as
far as mono and sesquiterpenes especially ones we know in cannabis the range is pretty limited i
mean everything you've smelled is what some sort of citrus some sort of turpentine some sort of
spicy some odd variation on then you have things like meersing which are their own monster but
you really kind of have to start branching out past what we're familiar with to kind of get the
full picture whether that's you know understanding that some of these things are massively stronger
and scent than others you know and that's it's not a bad thing though it's kind of
something you need to do to come to terms with you know what you have where you're going what
you're doing i would you know every once in a while i talk about you know fucking with the nightcap
right yeah real cool you know record holder all that shit it's cool but some people see that test
result and they think oh that's gotta be the loudest fucking thing ever right you know yeah yeah
eight eight percent terpene is the loudest thing fucking ever but it's not and and it won't be
because as you know you smelled pine you just smell both the pineys and that's what you know
is like six percent of that five or six percent of that profile um one percent of you know just
the way you might interpret it i mean one percent of that fench all you just smells
stronger than fucking five kind of that piney and not even kind of like massively um what's cool
about that cut is it's piney dominant not that it's some huge numbers because as much as we don't
want to you know admit it because it's kind of depressing that every kind every test we've tried
to put together to get a better handle of this can be misleading and i'm not yeah at this you know if
you see something that's super high limonene i mean citrus scents kind of walk on everything
you can smell citrus through onion you can smell citrus through garlic you can smell it through
skunk you get so if you see something that's handling super high in limonene you probably
will have a good amount of citrus but when you have something like myrcene you just smell that
i mean imagine how easy it is for that to get lost in a composition like if we're stacking that with
kelene and citrus scents and spicy shit you would lose the individual nuance of myrcene pretty fast
so when i see a huge you know myrcene test i'm not thinking oh yeah that smells like that
waxy spicy sweet thing i'm thinking okay how is that putting all together with this yeah
says it says so it sounds like high percentage also there's no correlation
this effect as well once again we don't know that some even have any effect you know what i mean
like some some of them may have no uh central nervous system effects some may have a lot
it gets worse than that so we don't talk about in cannabis but back on the chirality
conversation yeah so where that where if where that kind of transitions into effect and is really
important is in pharmaceuticals um and in pharmaceuticals are often looking for something
called enantiopure drugs this is because remember i was talking about all of the different you know
variables that could lead to this you know this version of linalool versus that version of
linalool on top of having different odors they can also have extremely different physiological
effects and we know this really well from pharmaceuticals sometimes an enantiopure drug
one that is just one uh enantiomer of it you know singular thing works lowers you know this bad
thing raises this good thing whereas the other half the other part of the hand actually can be
you know medically dangerous uh or just have no effect effect at all and that's you know
kind of one of the things that we should consider when we talk about you know compounds and cannabis
having an effect because we have so little actual research on this from the medical sphere
you know one of these things that we favor or you know within have great effects from a different
version of that that might be appearing unbeknownst to us could be having the opposite effect the
negative effect or no effect at all yeah and is that is what you're describing like cannabis
derived terpenes and other thing derived terpenes where it's derived from does that make a difference
too um as far as like uh the composition with stereo like person shit it absolutely does it can
you'll see huge variations between you know completely different plants you might see huge
variations of different species you might see huge variations due to like i was talking about
environment and a number of uh you know those kinds of consequences well but there is no
like hard and fast rule about it you know it's kind of what comes the plant you know and of course
there are some exceptions um but mostly exceptions that we've considered over time we've actually
eliminated as um as wrong yeah one of the things that we believed in the past was um
a citrus uh odor compound called uh the trial what like the gold standard um for being a natural race
a natural race mate which means that in all examples of citral the two enantiomers were equal
like 50 50 so as far as like if something was a physiological effect all citral would have the
same physiological effect because it's all the same citral yeah but we came to find out that
that's not true and we've even found you know balances you know as disproportionate as like 70
30 80 20 so the old adage about you know race mates not really existing in nature does seem to
be true which basically means that any version of any of these compounds from any different plant
from any different grow environment might be different from odor to effect to any of it and
without being able to actually run the kind of tests necessary to see what we're looking at and
then correlate those things to actual physiological effect i mean we'd just be shooting in the
fucking dark yeah yeah yeah i guess i mean it makes sense too because like i always talk about
with breeding like you when people ask me if a male always does this or a female always does that
or a certain strain always does this there's just no way to quantify that you can't ever
see anything so it's direct and solid like that honestly man that shit like that doesn't really
have a place and you see the people that you would expect to implement it if you see someone
speaking in absolutes while selling you know people cannabis seeds or selling people clones
i mean they're they're doing it for one reason and we know that reason and it's not really on the up
and up it's about if you're if you're if you can promise someone something over and over and you've
eliminated any personal variables from them and their life and their growth you're you're just
kind of bullshit yeah by being fucking tom hill and handing someone deep chunk and being like
there's a good chance this gonna come out like this motherfucker i mean you're not yeah you're
not really getting you know much in that especially with these modern pollies and shit what you
bro i am i'm smelling alpha visible
ah something else with a very i have zero zero scent here i can't smell it it's one of the ones
i can't smell you know and that really does have a very faint odor if you can get anything off of
it you're going to get the thing that most people have kind of linked in their brain to uh is abalone
which is chamomile if you can get anything it's going to get be like a faint chamomile tea it's
not strong a purity it's not strong diluted it's just not strong in general that makes sense i
can't smell chamomile tea whenever we make it i can't smell it not some of the things i can't
smell all right let's see uh alpha phalandrine yeah and this is a menthane monotropanoids
yeah so there's actually a lot of uh i i don't want this to be super like chemistry
but there's a lot of um menthane monotropanoids they're all based on the paramethane skeleton
and they include the majority of you know the monotropines and monotropanoids that have
kind of a terpenic odor including yeah include even including limonene um so yeah there's a lot
of smells something can't place it though but i do smell something it kind of smells like the
other terpenic uh it does smell familiar to something i smelled earlier let's see after
that would be delta three carine carine yeah delta three carrying carrying
let's see oh that's weird but it's it's there's almost a foul scent in there
what is that that uh juniper for basil bell pepper oh maybe bell pepper
bell pepper no no that's not what i'm smelling bell pepper is a special odor we can get into that
a little later if you want okay all right yeah i can just go right right now i'm gonna give you
the bullshit now um bell pepper is actually driven by a pyrazine of all things and not only is it
driven by a pyrazine it's driven by my god has to be within the top five um most odorous compounds
on planet earth so like a great example of that is uh the fucking mind gas uh hydrogen sulfide the
thing that you know basically fucking you know wrecks people right stuff that smelled like
eggs rotten eggs yeah so hydrogen sulfide i believe has an odor detection threshold of like
10 parts per trillion oh wow which is super fucking low yeah it doesn't take much the
i think it's two methoxyl pyrazine i might be wrong but i think it's two methoxyl pyrazine
this is the green are the green bell pepper pyrazine below uh below one uh part per trillion
it can be detected like literally one of the loudest fucking compounds on planet earth but
it exists in so many things in such tiny tiny amounts that i mean it's kind of a wonder we
ever found these things to begin with the the fact that we even were able to figure this out
because if you look at like old uh like gcms analysis like when they were figuring a lot of
this shit out it'll be like 10 20 things and a huge list of like unknown unidentified but they
know some shit about it'll be like unidentified monotropy unidentified ester unidentified
and fatty acid but they had no fucking clue what this was it must have been shocking because it
was showing up on the newest and you know latest machines that can now test for much smaller things
and no fucking idea what any of this shit was yeah always get always get pyrazine and their
shitty caps off the one of the ones that i'm talking about that's super fucking strong is
what puts that shitty grassy green kind of gnarly garbage on the cab uh that's like oh i can't
remember all the names of everything these days man that one's like isobutyl methyl
some shit's one of them man yeah my brain doesn't work well enough to fucking memorize all this
shit i can do strains to the even i'm losing my fucking brain for that too camping camping
is excluded from the kit just because i thought it was getting redundant with all of these similar
odors just have a little placeholder bottle okay sabine sabine um another terpenic family odor
another one that people consider really pleasant really enjoyable um contributes to a lot it's a
little spicy it actually oh i like that they've been means what puts a lot of that like spicy uh
kind of earthy edge with that kind of terpenic on nutmeg and mace i almost smell cherry in there
do you that's cool yeah heavy nice weird so something you might want to do is do you have
any strips from yes yeah you might i mean you honestly might want to start dunking them because
a lot a lot of what you're going to get from interaction with air so you might just want to
dip and kind of that makes sense okay let's try that where's the strip set right here
what is nasty halitosis smell that chem d can have well a lot of uh bacterial odors um or things
that replicate bacterial odors whether that's infection whether that's tonsil stones fucking
whatever um come from a group of compounds called uh uh aromatic amines polyamines and
they're just gross shit a lot a lot of us are familiar with them from uh their formation as you
know bacteria you know exists and breaks down a dead animal or bacterial pockets like you know
the ones in the back of your throat with tonsil stones that cause shit like halitosis
and putrescine and cadaverine stuff like that you know those are those are some of the gnarliest
ones but at the same time you know we know that they exist in strange places all the time you
know we've talked about fucking the calorie pear smelling like fucking old jizz because of all that
spermidine it oh yeah we grew up with those running down our streets in an area called
silver creek and we call them the countries because they just smell like fucking someone
blew loads all over the street some of those some of those really really big magnolia like the huge
magnolia grandiflora is fucking will smell that way too especially once they've like dropped a
bunch of flowers onto the ground it's oh but you smell it when you live near them you smell it
that's another um that's another compound in that cadaverine putrescine sperm it's all
in that category of disgusting shit yeah that was funny jizz plants come trees everyone calls
them the same shit man yeah i i didn't even know like if anybody knew what i was talking about
oh yeah they use those so widely in fucking like uh city planning because they're cheap
they get big they're easy to grow and they're all pretty and white and shit right they smell like
fucking semen all over the south all over the midwest all over all of those like pre-developed
you know or pre-planned developed neighborhoods just reeking of an old fucking comrade
all right so we got um let's do menthol is that in there yeah um i wouldn't smell that one
directly just because it is crystalline and i don't know if it got kind of you know roughed up
and i don't want you to accidentally inhale powder yeah just want some menthol yeah it's
one of the only the worst shit that's been up my nose i'll tell you what all right we got um let's
do narrow light all okay so the rolladol is interesting people talk about a lot because
they see it on canvas uh testing right it's odorless i mean basically odorless yeah i don't
smell anything so it's not actually used for its scent in in like scent applications it's actually
used as a fix and what a fixative does is it makes other scents last longer in a perfume
yeah interesting so i don't know how that might trip i don't know how that would translate to um
like aroma compounds contained within you know the wax cuticle of a trichomed like yeah i don't
know but as far as what it's used for in like conventional perfuming and scent uh applications
it's it makes shit last that odorless kind of maybe slightly woody i i feel like it might smell
like the faintest bit like remember the copper tone uh was it called like water babies the pink
yeah like the 80s and shit um i i feel like it smells faintly like that like the most faint
possible version but generally most people consider it odorless i consider it odorless
every perfumer i know does as well and we just use it to make things last longer you know i was
watching um me when me and brin first got together i i made her watch this movie called perfume have
we talked about before yeah i love that movie yeah i fucking love that movie we were watching
again the other night it's one of the most amazing fucking like it's not quite a horror
but it's it is it's real good i like that carve carve that car back roll yeah okay so that is a
interesting compound that is the character impact compound for oregano but on top of that it's
basically all that's in oregano um i've seen uh tests of uh steam distillations on oregano that
were like 98.5 99 like so that's basically concentrated oregano odor okay let's see
i see someone says like ambroxan or super iso-e talking about talk about the ocean man we're
doing a little trip to the ocean with the super iso-e and the ambroxan yeah
yeah let's see where the stopper where'd you go motherfucker there it is
let's see what's the next one it's um parasiamine yeah
goosefoot what the hell is a goosefoot
i i tried to make it fun with some of the random stuff in there that you know
one knows or maybe would inspire there's a lot of like little shit on there that i was hoping
would inspire someone to like go online and like do a little google like yeah or a big fucking wrench
in like the class like basically you know put it in like the weirdest possible class where it's
still academically accurate and be like oh yeah that's what it is don't know what those are
we're gonna look for it i can kind of smell that it's very light that's interesting but i i can't
quite place it i would like my first impression would be gas i get a lot of gas from things but
not gas necessarily but a component to gas yeah make sense no i get it something something gassy
but not necessarily like heavy benzene like actual yes exactly oh cedarine oh yeah i love cedar but
i don't know i i've had concentrated like cedar oil and it did not smell very good so we'll see
so i think that cedarine has a nicer odor than cedarol which is a big uh compositional element
of cedar oil um this from uh fractions from uh virginia cedar wood so it's pretty true to a
cedar experience but still smells incomplete i love that but it doesn't smell gnarly it doesn't
have that like low point uh yeah atlas or texas cedar it's very bright and it's enjoyable yeah
that's enjoyable i like that that's the smell of cedar that i like like a old cedar wood chest
let's see we got um farnesine farnesine uh we can we can break that one down after you smell
what do you think that smells like okay i'm not i didn't look at what it said it smells like so
you can see i have to take these things off so careful i'm such a klutz all right
here we go
i can't smell anything yet hold on i caught something just got it i can't
it's soft i'm curious it's super soft but yeah i can't place it
so um
farnesine is interesting yeah it's not one thing and it's not you know what we were talking about
earlier with um you know chiral variations it's actually seven isomers that we kind of
look at as one thing and we just test for them in general um
but there's a problem because uh farnessing has kind of entered the cannabis myth sphere
and the one that i hear frequently is its association with apple yeah that shit smells
nothing like an apple but i don't get apple but there is a reason that people think that
but i don't get apple but there is a reason that people think that because apples were evaluated
with gcms and it was found but it wasn't found in the apple flesh it was found in the apple peel
the slight waxiness that you might smell there is the waxiness of a green apple peel the other
the other thing that people say is oh it smells like gardenia because i think that wikipedia says
it smells like gardenia okay and to me it does a very very slight amount i smell floral would be
the closest i could even get yeah and um but there's a problem out of these seven farnesine
isomers yeah the one that's responsible for all of its pretty characters for gardenia even for
apple peel is the one that's appears in the smallest quantities and is the most volatile
so so it's gone right away yeah and i mean that is just i mean any level of pharmacy is just
completely masked by anything else you know our issue with even making it into something is one
of the reasons that we spent 50 years trying to figure out how to make a good gardenia perfume
and ended up using two bros instead of gardenia in the end oh but that's cool because two bros
have such juicy fruit gum smell you like so much yeah there is a perfume called kai have you
smelled it before i don't think so it's it was the closest i've ever smelled the gardenia it was
really good really good is a hawaiian one you know not good what's that i'm not surprised because
hawaiians are really familiar with the tahitian gardenia a plant called a tire okay and something
about its uh chemical composition lends to being extracted like um like an ethanol extraction like
a concrete or an absolute and um it smells more like what people think of with gardenia
than the absolute of like a you know a common gardenia from a garden that people you know would
know would smell those things end up smelling a lot again like two grows a lot like has that
bubble gum that kind of juicy fruit gum soft smell um uh tires basically what people want from gardenia
okay this one's gonna be balancing ah the good orange
oh yeah that's the orange i like that's the orange that we all want but we always get
fucking d-lime and yeah it's your fucking tangy that smells like fucking a mixture of like lemon
g and something else well rubber fucking to me it smells like burnt rubber tomato sauce it doesn't
smell so and with like a hint of orange is what it smells like yeah it's i don't find the energy to
be pleasant man i i just i really don't the fact that i've smoked as much of it as i have is really
just a just shot of myself really um but um yeah valentine's really cool that's my favorite of the
citrus aroma terpenes and for instance like when someone what the fuck was that thing that
obsolete name what do you call it orange juice orange juice bud yeah or found it or got it or
whatever how yeah yeah when someone says something like orange juice bud that's what i want to fucking
smell like i don't want to smell like orange glow cleaner because balancing kind of does have that
orange juicy smell like the kind of wafting that would be in the kitchen after you juice something
versus the wafting that's in the kitchen after you clean the grime off your fucking oven like
agent orange from um tga if i if i'm being honest with some of the more like sweet orange
pretty orange smells that i liked it had like the orange soda the orange crush type smell you know
i smoked the fucking melvin with jill yeah how'd you like did you get a hey i did
i you know what i didn't hate it and what i was surprised about with it um just like i guess the
most interesting thing for me is because she told me while we went out prior like when we went out
and had drinks and she was telling me about it because i had never smoked she's like oh yeah i'll
make sure you get it you know yeah and um because i guess she doesn't really crop it anymore at all
yeah which is kind of a shame but she was telling me and i was just kind of sitting there like yeah
you're okay jill sure whatever she told me she's like no there's this burnt rubber element to it
and i'm sitting there like yeah yeah yeah tell me tell me more about your tangy yeah yeah but there
there really was some like gnarly depth to it and i was surprised because i thought i was just going
to get blasted with yeah with some fucking uh asian orange reader but um oh man it was it was
more complex and i'll say like if the orange is right i can fuck with it orange crush i used to
fuck with that yeah you know things were good shit but most of the time it's not what i'm getting man
i'm getting getting some fucked up orange what's weird is that you know i mean tanji came from uh
the the orange velvet the melvin cut so it it has the ability to do the pretty orange and it also
has the ability to do that burnt rubber tomato soup shit that i smell it's weird it's all in there
i uh i grew the fucking i don't i don't even think it was it even tangier was one of the
fucking hybrids like tangelo so there's like a peach cut that went around santa cruz uh for a
while i think one of the clubs i think canna cruise might have won something with it but it was
i mean it was clearly a tanji hybrid but there was some like peach to it and actually tasted
pretty good i mean tasted better than peach rings and yeah it tastes better than tanji that's all
it's all it matters yeah there you go okay here's guayol oh campicle
guayol's the campfire aroma that's a strange one for yeah yeah
yeah so that's a compound that's created often uh from the paralysis of wood so when wood burns
that's actually often released so that really is the smell of campfire that's dead on yeah yeah
and then there's um another very similar smelling compound that's a phenolic compound and then
there's an actual monoturbing verse the monotropic alcohol that guayol is as well so there's like
quite a bit of it across the board in nature and they all have kind of that campfirey dark
little bit of strange sweetness on the back aroma i love that smell i think that's
an amazing smell okay i gotta do something real quick i'm gonna try to change this unplug my mic
and plug in the charger because i'm almost dead here so one second it might fuck my mic up i'm
hoping it doesn't do it wherever you want man can you hear me yeah okay so we're still good does it
sound fucked up or different no okay good all right we continue the what's next citronella i
know what citronella sounds smells like candles is this like that okay so where are you at citronella
lol or yes lol l-a-l or l-o-l l uh l-a-l okay so
it smells just like the fucking candles it smells like definitely smells like citronella candle
100 um that is the main compound in the species of lemongrass that we call citronella grass so okay
and then after that is decarvon carbone yeah decarvone
who names this shit you know a lot of the names are also kind of becoming obsolete um
the designations of uh dextra and lavo uh dnl are kind of considered obsolete at this point and are
better okay no optic chemistry lessons but things like dnl are obsolete and we'll probably see in
the next decade you know those kinds of uh usage for anything but sugars where they actually are
appropriate um just kind of removed um all of them have a better better name but you don't like it
it's weird like i i was trying to figure it out i was like i smell dill and i smell something else
and it is spearmint i smell spearmint and dill denon just like just those two though yeah so
yeah wow that's there's a very common um in fact it's usually the example people use for how um
two such closely related or nearly identical compounds can have such different odors because
decarbon is the big part of spearmint whereas l-carbon is the big part of caraway okay they're
very i mean they're very distinctly different aromas all right we could do is eucalyptol just
gonna smell like eucalyptus yeah is it different okay yeah what that smells like how about citrol
you you should you should smell eucalyptol because it's it's found in a lot in in different
um just you'll see different tests especially with it under different names you might see it called
1-8-sineol instead of eucalyptol but those are the same compounds yeah oh yeah for sure this is
totally i love that smell though i love that smell we have a lot of like um or dr teal's like uh
eucalyptus bath melt stuff because it's nice and so here's citral citral that was what we were
talking about um earlier about the thing that they once believed was actually naturally erythemic
but it's it's not it can it can be all over the place that is a weird one it's almost like
citronella but it's not yeah it's like a a brighter citronella i don't bright i don't know
that's a good way to describe the smell but so that citrus with some french fries so that citrus
is actually have you ever smelled a rose that smelled really lemony but didn't smell like
citronella no okay well no i have not some roses produce a fairly large amount of that it can be
really nice you get this kind of sparkly lemony rose yeah as opposed to you know your typical you
know honey soft rose i i think that's a cool odor and then the individual components of it citral a
and b which um also have names but um citral a and b uh actually smell quite a bit different as
well it's it's really cool to smell um them and then smell uh citral itself see here now we have
citronella old yeah so that's the rose one oh that does smell more rosy yeah for sure
that's pretty so what's interesting and since we've talked about you know transitions between
stereo isomers and how they shape different things then um
so the other
enantiomer of that smells like citronella just great citronella and there's a really funny
anecdote about a rose breeder who i guess was trying to work with you know trying to make
really bold roses odor wise and he ended up with a bunch of roses that smelled like straight up
citronella because or along the way he was prioritizing breeding towards super high
citronella and he ended up with plants that were expressing that super high citronella
as only one stereo isomer the one that smells like citronella not rose so
three fucking nasty roses man yeah i can imagine that'd be headache roses
but you know these aren't these kinds of is an anecdote aren't unique to rose breeding and in
fact could totally see that happening in cannabis too you know if someone kept breeding and breeding
redundantly towards one you know one terpene one terpene one whatever and that was the whole focus
you would have to imagine that you know some of the things that we look at you know as like
recessive traits and shit like that you know you have to imagine at some point one of the things
that could pop out is something that produces that huge amount of that compound but not the
version you want yeah i know with blueberry you can lead it towards chocolate you know there's
also a grape you know those things are very transitory and and the further out you take it
a lot of people end up going those directions even though they're not necessarily intending
yeah i mean but that's where you also find some of the coolest and it's true i didn't expect to
find peanut butter and and blueberry in the same thing that's god damn sure but it's raffling oxide
so that is just what it sounds like when um carolyn is you know under
undergoes the process that you would imagine under goes through the name you know oxidation
that's what comes out it's interesting that's uh that's around one percent so you can imagine that
you know yeah yeah that's a that's a pretty strong one yeah that would give me a headache i think
yeah so as far as all of there aren't a whole ton of um monorh sesquiterpenes or terpenoids that are
really like out of control odor wise yeah um but you know some some of them are a little stronger
than others the fench all you smelled um even at two and a half percent is pretty fucking strong
but you know there's nothing there's nothing really outlandish outlandish comes
once you start getting to like red the red colors limonene did not smell like i thought it would
smell oh the other side so they yeah so they mistakenly used to think that those two um
lime means were what was responsible for the distinction between uh orange and then lemon and
lime yeah but it's not what it's not quite true all all the citrus is basically you know some
arrangement of like the same seven or eight things with or without you know a unique modifier i know
i've talked about um grapefruit has uh thea terpeneo the grapefruit mercaptan as well as uh
how many more i don't know maybe like two or three more uh unique individual odor compounds
yuzu has eugene in it but if you look at the gcms for like the top nine most popular citrus fruits
and i mean different species as well not just you know a different you know not like you know
the taraka the fucking blood orange is still just a fucking sweet orange i mean like completely
different citrus yeah um it's a product of basically all modern citrus being bred down
from like the same four fucking things but it's all just the same eight fucking things in different
quantities with you know a handful of this one has an individual special compound that makes it unique
like like the weird skunky grapefruit bullshit the grapefruit does like yeah um a lot of things are
like that a lot of things are um very are just variable you know perfect that's in agriculture
that's how they get the plant patents is by those unique variables right like that's the one thing
that they have to have to get the plant patent is is something that makes it unique from the other
species not necessarily you know um yeah i was learning about that today it is really fascinating
you know that is that is not something i know a shit ton about because i just haven't been keeping
up with it you know i think yeah i think the last thing i even you know last time i brought it up
and talked about was that the when the spanish were uh getting patents because they were able to
uh legally define some o'connell variants as a completely different plant and i'm thinking to
myself shit man you just tc you just tc'd one thing and picked the fucking tf
fucking plant that looked different and now you can put the fucking put the papers on it man like
that was the last thing i really fucking you know there was a um a podcast and i i swear i i can't
remember the name but it was actually really good and um brian from radio bridge turned me on to it
was a lady named tassa and i believe they're from peru a company from peru that's doing the majority
of the hplv testing and they did they they worked a lot with the government i think of peru on um
the kovat testing there and now they're the big ones doing hplv testing she was going through
talking about uh all the ins and outs of hplv what we know what we don't know how it's passed
how it can't be you know what i mean just it was wild it was some wild shit i learned a lot during
that podcast hopefully we can have her on soon though that'd be cool and you know man it's
we're learning more and more every day i mean i just saw something i think last night that was
like hey look here's pretty substantial evidence that fucking a super common type of aphid is
passing it i'm like oh sweet that's great like yeah um so we are really learning more and
we're in a weird spot because cannabis is facing all sorts of shit that it never has before and
you know between the all months yeah proliferation of information and media and new good resources
for your average person we're basically being you know bombarded this like we're getting ready to
fucking you know get nuked like the fucking you know thing that comes out when the fucking lights
comes out when the fucking lights go out at silent hill like it's coming for us but at the
same time it's giving us huge deluge of information and you know giving us all the tools so we can do
what we can to protect ourselves from this shit because if conventional agriculture has taught us
anything this is just going to keep happening we've been removed from a world that's constantly
discussing disease and disease prevention beyond common shit you know 10 years ago people were
like oh yeah oil oil for mites or if you were a dickhead you were fucking you know spraying avid
or ferb or you know eagle 20 for you know any sort of you know p.m just shit like that's what the
focus was but now you know in the last five years things like you know beat curly top went from
something that a handful of people in cannabis had heard about you know most of them having you
conventional agriculture backgrounds to something that people are like yo i know this fucking you
know screwed up looking thing that happens to my plants like what was once kind of coveted or less
you know disseminated information is becoming really widely known and i think that's helping us
with the whole hop latent thing because if this was if this was all happening behind the scenes
15 years ago at the aggressive rate that we're seeing you know gardens being tested for we'd be
where europe is in no time when you see when you see europe doing a hop latent testing they're
seeing like 90 to 100 of germ or germplasm from fucking all these fucking panels the whole
fucking continent has it like yeah it's it's at the point where it's critical because i see countries
in uh eastern europe you know poor places places that need their fucking commodities you know
slovenia is talking about losing 40 of biomass to fucking you know hop latent at one point
yeah at one point you stop calling it fucking latent right yeah yeah it's not very late now is
it i was gonna say if you're destroying 40 of a fucking hot biomass it doesn't sound asymptomatic
no it sounds like it's hot blatant damn right blatant viroid yeah yeah that's yeah it's real
fucked over there and what's funny is what it sounds like from our friends that that are very
involved in the testing and passing of clones and nurseries it sounds like what infected over in
europe like wildfire was a bunch of bad cookies cuts and gelato cuts went over there from america
and they brought them into these old libraries that had never seen any kind of diseases like
that over there and it just ravaged the fuck out of them they just weren't ready for it
why am i not shocked though yeah the cookies actually took out it literally took out strains
you know what i mean and it's not just drowning them out from the market it literally took them
out cookies has been the gift that's kept on giving for the 12 fucking years man
it is dude keeps on giving to us man
when we want clean greenhouses just keeps on giving yeah and and a lot of them are trying
the method of you know slowly cleaning it or using peroxide or whatever and it's just like
they're eventually going to learn you have to kill it all you know and i i do i do dumb shit
that like some people have like been like oh that's extreme like i think i've talked to you
before about fucking you know gassing rooms after they've been complete with like yeah
oxide yeah so like at some point all this stuff that i'm like wow i'm a neurotic bitch like
it's going to not even be enough it's not even when you look at fucking the recommendations
for like you know the fucking german council on hot growing recommendations for a certain you know
not dealing with hot plate and it's basically just like start with shit that doesn't have it
good luck yeah yeah don't infect your shit i mean we're the main pathogen vector and that's the
the problem it's it's crazy and we're the advances we've made especially the ones that are touted are
not advances at all and i mean i'm i'm really not trying to be a dick about this but people are like
oh maristem culture and thermotherapy and all you have to do is find the maybe 10 people who did
the majority of seminal research on this topic and look at when they came up with the you know
culture plus thermotherapy tech for fucking eliminating hoplite we're still fucking trying
to work with solutions that are 25 years old we're working with solutions that came from an era
where our understanding of viroids in general was laughably bad i bet i bet yeah that's viruses are
like tiny tiny tiny viruses right like or single cell or something like that
yeah it's it's basically a piece just think of it as like a piece of a virus yeah um which is one of
the reasons that it's you know so difficult to deal with they have different there's different
conditions different things you can do you know different ways they have to be approached you know
viruses have specific things that can be you know done to hinder their replication but on top of
that i mean there's shit that we don't even talk about i mean i see studies from 10 years ago that
show viroids not only you know doing what they do but also you know fucking up lignification of
cell walls you know basically corrupting the organism which is something that you know plant
viruses that we're familiar with don't do when we when we see plant viruses and you know kind of in
a direct way you know the ones we're familiar with what we see is a bunch of phytohormone
manipulation making the thing look like a piece of shit yeah these viroids are you know not you
know doing this damage that i'm talking about via phytohormone manipulation it looks like it's you
know its existence in the fucking you know in that cell is compromising the cell structural integrity
and putting um like perforations and cell walls and shit so i don't know that's nasty
all right um let's see do you want to pick a few more that you think i should smell and that you're
really interested in having me smell from the kit sure we get a headache so i want to make sure and
do it right i don't i don't want you to get a headache it's not your fault i like it it's i've
been putting these smells up my nose i want to make sure and get the best ones down before i get
worse okay um just be somewhere uh ventilated please yeah no see i have to turn off my fan
because everybody can hear my fan so it's like uh yeah getting played um did the can i give you
have um black number five in place of green 37 yes it does that one okay let me see what this is
you might want to be careful with that one when you open it because you it's like i said nothing
i didn't put anything in the kit that would be explicitly harmful like if you spit on yourself
like it will be unpleasant but you don't need to like call poison control and rush to the hospital
this one's this one's gnarly but real interesting this is the first uh vsc in in the kit oh
interesting okay volatile sulfur compound right yes sir
um that's um i'm gonna get it hold on there's almost it's not there's something in it that's
not unpleasant it's not very but it's like around i don't know no you're you're real close i'm i'm
listening and being impressed you said is it very but it's close it's black current black current
yep there you go so not only is that one of the main uh interesting yeah one of the main components
of like tomcat spray but it's it's also uh one of the character odor compounds for uh or a character
impact compounds for uh black current and that's cool and that's one of those things that we were
talking about again with the you know stereo isomeric uh differences and variation is that
two different pieces of it provide those elements yeah that smells really pissy and maybe even almost
has that like tinge like something that's actually skunky yeah not the same part of it that provides
that like green black current almost sweet and actually becomes as we become uh anosmic to the
sharper nastier part of it that actually kind of blooms into something that's more black current
if you the more you smell it the more delicate it becomes because we do lose the ability especially
with the scs we lose the ability to perceive them we go nose blind to them it's yeah call you know
osmia or going uh anosmic and um yeah so you'll lose sometimes you can actually lose the nasty
part of a compound and what is left is kind of nice like oh yeah like a weird i can kind of center
in on that smell because it was very weird like it's not quite a berry but it's pleasant and yeah
that was really weird i did thought it was going to be way off i'm sad that i did not
didn't get you the actual uh skunk tincture yet that's always fun the tinks
i i i had to make the best possible use of my like slightly unethical yeah no i know yeah
yeah you know part of it there's no way to get around it i didn't you know i didn't include any
sort of musks in the kit but you know that's something that everyone in cannabis wants to
smell they want to smell something that's actually heavily you know comprised of the
theos and theo esters that familiar with or have read about and that's that's what's in that that's
it um it's gnarly but once again it's not really unpleasant and the more smell it before you just
start to lose the whole show because um those prentle group uh mercaptans like mercaptan
fucking you lose it fast like real fast if you smell that shit too long it's gone so the thing
so the thing that we associate with or i guess that test has tried to you know implicate as the
primary mover for any sort of skunk aroma and cannabis yeah we lose it and we lose it fast in
fact we do better perceiving it once we've walked away and come back and not even made it all the
way there more people talk about fucking smelling skunk in a room where weed has been smoked
yes about fucking smelling it you know in a room where it's being grown i've you know that's one
thing that i've been thinking about a lot and i realized like a lot of these people who are
smelling skunk at concerts were smelling it because it was being smoked it wasn't because
it was in someone's pocket and they were smelling it in the bag most of the time they were smelling
the skunkiness this odor when people are smoking at concerts and they go chase it down you know
and that's what they remember people remember a lot of the the smell of the skunk from actual smoke
i mean granted it's there in the bud too but yeah that's a lot of what people remember is the actual
smell of the smoke and what they're associating so someone said cry baby baby poop smell okay
so the odor of feces in general is going to definitely be modified by your physical health
you know uh the way your body produces bile your own intestinal flora all that shit but in general
the odor of shit comes from two compounds two amines um indole and scattle
um that makes sense oh it makes it comes out of your scat hole yeah it comes out of your scat hole
um but they're really really nasty compounds but we don't experience them in high concentrations
um in the kit because i god it's hard to do some things that i want to do because it either
per either has to exclude people for safety reasons like i there's a whole bunch of shit i
can't send to canada there's a whole whole bunch and i can get away with more to canada
because i can still do ground shipping to canada so things that are flammable things like that i
can get away with it but as soon as we start talking environmental hazards hazards to water
waste fish canada's like yeah i get the fuck out yeah so um there's things i wanted to do one of
which was give people the ability to smell a very small amount of pure indole and scattle compared
to what was in the kit just so they would kind of yes nasty man like i i'm not i'm awful but
i was just handling the bottles not touching the materials handling the bottles and doing it with
a spoon and i think i got like i don't know maybe like the finest dusting like of like two or three
crystals on my gloves and put them together in my hands got fucking uh ate a walkover and i was like
what's this smell like just the fucking shittiest face i've ever seen like like what the fuck is
wrong with you and i'll think why'd you make me smell this yeah but um so in the do you have a
red number one that's not a placeholder in your kit let me see i do i have indole so this is a
very very diluted indole it's one percent and what's really interesting about indole is not
only is it responsible for one of the key odors of shit it's responsible for that sweet part of
the smell of bacterial rot of like an animal it's also responsible for the like kind of narcotic
skanky part of like jasmine yeah those white flowers that kind of skanky bit of white flowers
indole so you have it i gave it to you at one percent alcohol so it has a little throw for you
but it's going to be right yeah it's going to be right on the fucking verge no it's really not that
bad at one percent it's going to be right on the verge of where of where like that white floral
becomes the shit odor yeah smell that little bit of like oh i can smell that if this was turned way
up it would be straight up ass but it's still low enough that you can get that kind of jasmine
element that tuberose element all the nice parts of it yeah i've smelled dead bodies before that
have been sitting around in a hot uh morgue before so i've taken that i can take this it's just that
it's just that little bit of sweetness from death though it's not the bad it's not the bacterial rot
that that's funny because we used to say it's sweet shit it's like death smells like sweet shit
it's it's just the sweetness from it and it's like that kind of flowers on your grave thing
that's not that bad no it's not but you can tell that if you turn that way up you can you can yes
i can tell where that's going yeah so oh yeah oh yeah yeah so at one percent it's the kind of the
bridging area between flowers and shit at 10 it's i bet that's pretty rotten at 10.
when i make when i make those things i use a like when i make the um like one percent yeah
indole and scattle i i use i use a fucking respirator it's it's one it's one of those
things that you don't smell so much like some of the acids where it's just like really drilling you
yeah i think that if you catch like a breath of it and you like actually get like it it takes
your breath away it's like oh fuck like like run the fuck away like get the get the fresh air if
you've got a fucking you know exhaust hood running that shit off get that shit gone man
it's tarry and choking and awful okay so that one was um
wow uh phenolate phenyl acetic acid yeah interesting right no yeah what's it smell
okay let me try this one there's a smell in there that is a bad smell but it's like jasmine
like a jasmine turned to 40. it because jasmine smells almost like piss to me but it's not the
pissy smell of jasmine it's something else it's the honey smell of jasmine
is that what it is oh my god yeah i can smell it but it reminds me of jasmine like but i don't
like the smell of jasmine so it makes sense yeah so pa and pa and pa also put the kind of honey
element on uh rose as well when you smell okay really honey um it's it's interesting because
i was i thought it was kind of fun to include that especially with so many people in canvas
because paa just uh you know name might suggest is an aromatic auxin is paa as like iaa yeah so
i was just thinking yeah and then i see butyric acid here and i was thinking i know what indole
butyric acid smells like and that smells like fucking nasty that's a bad smell iba powder yeah
it's like grass but not it's just a nasty smell so butyric acid is a bad smell
so butyric acid um this is the compound that gives cheese its nasty aroma oh here we go
i'm doing this for everyone watching i can't smell anything do you have the lid on still no
oh wait hold on oh yep there it is there it is oh fuck yes okay it's i smell vomit i smell vomit
yeah here bread you wanna smell it it's the vomit element on parmesan cheese
is that is literally what it is that that is exactly it the high nasty end of parmesan cheese
yeah like like famunda cheese um is that what lactic no that's not what labs smell like no
butyric acid does not smell like labs i'm gonna try cocoa pyrazine that's a cool one
so number red number five is the other horrible one and in the oh is it i'm gonna have to try it
it's it's isobarylic acid okay so i see the beginning smell of cocoa in it but it goes
way further than cocoa yeah but i smell this and i and it smells very familiar like i've smelled
something that smells this exact scent and only the scent you probably have because you remember
that era like in the thousands when they're trying to make all this stupid chocolate body sprays and
shit yeah yeah yeah they would just find a compound that worked and be like x axis like
one fucking compound they were like yeah this is close enough fucking yeah because um like
cocoa absolute like making an actual perfume like a natural perfume base from uh from cocoa it
produces a very expensive product so oh wow let's see here here's um number five which is
isovaleric acid yeah so that's the key aroma compound in valerian root but also in
body odor for certain people and sweaty socks stuff like that it's not that bad
i'm a fucking creep you know what not everyone hates it especially people who are uh like took
a lot of valerian pills and like have valerian tea yeah they don't yeah they don't have any
problem with it some people think that smells like fucking nasty sweat socks like an old gym
locker kind of smell so yeah no that smells quite kind of pleasant um let's see what else we got here
pick a good one bren said for me to pick a good smell because that's stuck in her nose
which one should i give her pick orange number pick pick her orange number seven okay uh orange
seven here we go orange number seven
this is ethyl methyl anthranilate i don't know how to pronounce that but is that close
close enough it's a methyl anthranilate anthranilate there we go i used to be good
at reading shit phonetically but i'm here we go it's oh my god it smells like a popsicle to me
almost yeah that's exactly what you're smelling so that is the original formulation for artificial
grape just that that's great that's what it tastes like the popsicle yeah yeah it smells like great
popsicle yeah everything from grape soda to great popsicles is flavored with that oh yeah that makes
sense and that's all also uh the compound that separates like wine grapes from fox grapes as far
as like the way we imagine them we imagine sour grapes a certain way but when we think of like
it's the delicious grapes most of the time we're thinking big you know plump concords purple ones
and conkers are fox grapes you know foxy but generally um the fox grapes are shaped by that
which is you know kind of how we learned one of those things where i was talking about testing is
you know what it was back then they were like we tested this we found that shit that is great
it's not a complete grape it's not natural great but it is great and i mean they had uh
vocabulary you grape out by i get something like i didn't like 1910 1915 that was straight up that
that's the flavor of all those heirloom grape sodas uh and when you smell candy grape whether
that's big league chew whether that's popsicles anything but like natural grape which is nothing
like candy great yeah of course that is compound that's fucking making it there aren't others that
do that so like you know one of the things that i've said is you know uh candy grape is such a
fucking prolific odor in cannabis everyone's you know grow yeah great i'm shocked that the one
compound responsible for that scent there's not like some fucking you know team of terps common
terps that can come together and make that without that that version of grape does not exist so i
have no idea why that's not on test especially like that's really weird especially with all the
urkel and being in cookies and everything else and all the grape out there there's a variety of
things i think should be in town because it seems very sensible to me that i don't really understand
uh like why it would be ignored other than the fact that you know no one's brought it up to the
right person yet you know hopefully they'll see this and pay a fucking attention i doubt it but
well there's no there's going to be people that can move you know move that needle much more
you're having you're having someone on tomorrow that can go into work and be like hey motherfucker
tomorrow we start testing for this yeah and it happens you know i can shout it some fucking
lab tech in a parking lot and he's gonna be like i'm calling the police like you know yeah and it
just the information has to reach the right people and i think that it isn't too far off or too hard
to swallow because nothing i'm saying is really new the shit that i'm about is well understood and
established in contemporary scent science and flavor science whether that's perfume or foods
or fucking whatever i'm not saying anything that's crazy like oh you know he's saying some wild shit
like you know if you take the shit kind of shit that i say you know on my posts and stuff to
someone who works at um you know simrise or any of the big you know penta any of the big super
chemical firms they'd be like okay yeah what's your point like it's that's fucking old man um
so but it's bringing that data to cannabis because a lot of people that are interested
in cannabis don't necessarily branch out into necessarily perfume or agricultural industries
this is not necessarily a part of their job they don't need to do that to get their job done so it
doesn't always happen unless it's a particular you know fascination for them yeah and i mean i
feel like it's a good point for the people that actually can because it's going to be a big
fucking feather in someone's cap to be the person that was the big catalyst yes or you know revealing
you know or i guess curtailing and you know rebuilding testing to test for all the shit that
we want you know yeah look if you had 10 people 20 people that we know write out their favorite
you know flavors of of weed just shit that they found that they liked i have trouble believing
any more than 25 percent of those would be you know unless they were a huge citrus that i have
a problem believing that more than 25 percent of those would be even you know terpene based
yeah they might have you know a lot of you know a substantial amount of terpenes in the profile
but as far as what is known and desirable out of that odor the terpene is being responsible for
them now i mean what do people talk about talk about gas skunk they want you know they want
distinct fruits pineapple cherry strawberry i mean this shit doesn't come from terps
yeah never did and fascinating and ignoring where it comes from is is crazy especially because you
know i've had to mine huge amounts of data from like hemp testing yeah in europe and shit and
once again they were in that same situation that a lot of it came from either entities that were
removed from cannabis or were doing a lot of their work in an earlier stage and they're working
with the same labs that are you know running you know 200 300 400 compound panels so they were
seeing a lot more so there are a lot of actual tests that you can find with some effort that
prove that it's not speculation these compounds do exist in cannabis and some of them have peaks i
mean camaro was talking the other day about i think what he says like uh i think he said he saw
uh you know the spike on the gcms for hexyl butrate or something and that's and regardless of any you
know organoleptic qualities of that compound i mean even hearing that someone was testing
for that you know that ester or really any of these fruit esters is so fucking great to hear
like it's so fucking great that people are kind of you know unwinding the mystery and
i think that a lot of it just
i think that a lot of it was about accepting that maybe they haven't been told the complete
story the whole time because a lot of you know when i used to talk about this shit like five
years ago man i mean you were there with me talking to fucking what was his name the dude that did the
fucking tissue culture and we were in portland which one with the one that pretended to do tissue
culture i think i think but i mean i remember you know me saying that something wasn't a
terpene and just like a simple concept because yeah it aren't and he looked at me like i had
like two fucking heads or like i was an idiot i'm like oh man the sg labs i was like and lots of
things aren't because you know he was i think his commentary started about i think it was oh why
don't we just you know plug the inputs and run the panels for you know skunk compounds i was like
oh it's not that fucking easy and it's not what we yeah but i mean beyond that like even introducing
the idea that there was more to aroma than just terpenes and terpenoids as little as five years
ago was something that was met with you know disdain people be like oh you don't know what
the fuck you're talking about i'm like no man i've i've smelled all of these things many times
for many years and i i really can promise you that that shit that you wanted didn't come from
the 30 terps on that fucking test man yeah it no combination of them makes vanilla no combination
of them makes strawberry like it's not there there's points beyond subjectivity where people
are looking for things that are created by specific compounds aromas there are not a wide range of
things that can create something you know that can create a vanilla odor there just aren't there's
one thing that's responsible for almost the entirety of vanilla odor and then there's
something else that i you know there's the pieces of that um of that compound but i can think of
like one other thing that people say oh this really smells like vanilla and it's another
compound from vanilla i mean even things like pipernel if you've ever smelled a little kind of
like fake vanilla on like a blueberry or yeah yeah yeah yeah um yeah so that's pipernel heliotropin
and uh but as far as like vanilla goes i mean if you show me a panel it's like limony and you know
carrying well this this is fucking i can i can tell you if that's capable of producing the smell
of vanilla yeah it there's only one way that it works so i think the overall uh theme of everything
is that we are only seeing a small fraction right now in testing for what comprises these smells and
these these even the cannabinoids in general but specifically the the smells and and the flavors
and we're only seeing a small percentage in the testing what comprises these things but people are
thinking that they have the whole novel when they've really got a few words and on top of that
you know without um without you know some of the stuff i was talking about you know um real clear
ideas of you know where you know the balance of these stereoisomers on top of that you know we
could be looking at compounds we are familiar with and we do know the odor of but that version
of it that appears on that test is not the one that we're really familiar with and when we've
kind of integrated that into our thinking you know oh this smells like this and i've completely
eliminated the idea that well maybe this smells a little different for any number of reasons and
it becomes even harder because you know at some point you have to admit that without certain
testing that's just not available to us in cannabis even something that we should be
familiar with on a test might be something we're not really familiar with at all that is wild
yeah yeah it can it can be a tough one and you know you know the joke i always make you know
who can you trust not you yeah you know not fucking you yeah the subjectivity of
of descriptions and our physiological changes you know doing that shit it's crazy you know i
i posted a study about you know how some humans cannot differentiate between two chiral compounds
even even if two what's a good one alpha terpennial okay the plus
fuck i didn't explain that prior but just for the plus smells like i don't know like tarry
kind of like green conifer tree okay the minus smells like like floral like lilacs there's human
beings out there who are genetically hardwired to not be able to make that distinction if they smell
those two compounds they will smell the same i can't smell the difference between a runover skunk
and like smoked cannabis that's skunky i can't tell the difference like ever since i was little
i've never been able to tell the difference at all we we develop we develop our own criteria
for identification and how you know like i said how memory and emotion plays into it and the way
that we shape our own understanding of scent is very very malleable and we can create you know
basically impossible to break connections and other and actively rewrite this shit the whole
time um that study i was talking about with people not being able to differentiate between
two stereoisomers they were able to train them to be able to make those you know differentiations
and i think that's really funny yeah there and so someone mentioned that paper about training
nostrils separately was cool we can do a lot to our sense of smell and that's one of the reasons
that the kit is a lot of fun because all the tricks that we can do all the ways that we can
kind of tinker with how we understand stuff well we have the base materials to do it now
yeah um hey someone else who likes that joanne that's fun yeah yeah
um but so i guess i i mean i don't know what all the talk about there are definitely a few
questions that i got and some of them were pretty easy but yeah go ahead let me what do i got i got
a i put little post-it notes up because i was just kind of like writing them throughout the
day and sticking that's the best way to do it yeah what do we got here um
oh well there's one that's pretty dumb someone asked about um meat odors
vsc's different yeah that makes sense um but there's more to it too um so
there's a process in cooking called the my yard reaction okay and basically through
heat and thermal degradation new aroma compounds are formed so you know that kind of caramelization
that happens to like steaks and stuff it actually actually creates new aroma compounds which is
and that process occurs with the baking of bread with the browning of steak any sort of
non-enzymatic browning will uh can produce those kinds of compounds okay oh someone said now you're
in my wheelhouse yeah i was gonna say not not my wheelhouse unfortunately i do understand some of
the chemistry what becomes of it but just about just about anyone's gonna cook a better steak
than me especially someone with a name dude i just checked on the other day and gave myself
that fuck that food for i was sick for like three days it was super bad if i don't fuck me up dude i
don't cook red meat every steak i cook is just like super mid like i'm never gonna fucking cook
red meat again i'm i am so stupid i even had the fucking the thermometer in it checking it i was
like all right medium rare fucking a you know yeah no it'll it'll be it'll be spiced well it'll it'll
have a decent flavor but i'll cut into it and be like i didn't i didn't cook this how i imagined
i'm out there doing the fucking thumb test pinching my fucking fingers
i'm not it man i'm not a grill master let me bake some cookies or some fucking shit i'll do that well
uh is there anything else you wanted to hit on the kit um where where can they buy it um it looks
like someone pinned the website yeah but we got it it's gonna be an audio so say it oh uh
paraphernalia social club dot com um and i don't know i don't know if there's anything
else oh there is uh i'm trying to think if there was any questions from yeah this board i anything
i can knock out real quick other than you know me because that was pretty easy um oh someone asked
about a flower called uh immortelle and that's special immortelle is real weird um it's full of
uh dike ketones that are unique to it uh variety of rare compounds are just found in it um
and i mean there's not really much more to it's just a very very unique uh
uh that you know set of everything for that flower from the fact that it has
odd flavonoids that don't seem to fade which is how it got its nickname
immortal to the fact that it has strange you know a huge range of shit that's found in everything
from you know turmeric to fucking you know rare flowers it's just a very strange plant and i'd
love to see more uh research about someone asked about the scent of weather
uh super super variable um it's called s-anemone yeah now we're talking my language
right uh so weather is a product of how it was tanned and how it was oiled after the fact it
could be modern you know chemical shit um like real nasty shit back in the day it was they use a
lot of piss back in the day to tan leather if i'm correct they used a lot of weird shit but you know
the one that was really uh distinct was birch tar um or all the car yeah the the tree tanned
leathers they had a lot of um bark a lot of bark extracts have a lot of uh phenolic compounds so
you got that the the russian leather all the old library books all the old russian boots that were
waterproof that was all birch tar that was all heavily phenolic so natural kind of off back in
the day it was you know castoreum birch tar that's all heavily phenolic now it's just random fucking
chemicals castoreum's the extracted from beaver anal scent glands um castor castor sacks um it's
not really the anal gland is next to them oh okay castor sacks there we go yeah yeah
castoreum is the liquid that's right it's scent glands near the anus that's right yes that's right
so it's not pushing the thing that you want out of the poop hole yeah just jason it's poop hole
adjacent yeah and that's the stuff that they use in like gummy bears and gummy worms and stuff
so that's not actually true oh is it damn it i know i know people are so mad to learn that
the whole fucking beaver booty juice thing is not true castoreum's a very very hard it's a
very expensive ingredient that's been used almost exclusively in high-end perfuming
when it was used in cuisine it was random shit like some english king was like we're gonna make
something with this or some fucking three michelin star fucking chef trying to put a
on some shit it's not it's never been widely available the thing that the thing that with
you know candy and sweets and shit that bug people out is the fucking red dye from the
insects people people don't like that part and that part is true what is that um
red dyes from insect shell or yeah yeah but i mean it's food safe yeah you can rear them so
people are like oh man my strawberry cherry bright red shit is is really some other shit
is there anything you i feel like is there anything you want to know i mean we've covered a
good bit of stuff yeah it covered a shitload of terps i mean like i i learned a lot already so my
brain's pretty full like of of trying to to put together everything that i that i learned tonight
sense and sense memory but um i don't know we can always do a round two too you know we could do
something else another time make it more focused go back and you know let people kind of decide
what they want to know more about yeah if any of you watching have any other stuff you want us to
cover in the future we can always do a round two and crybaby's gonna help me on a few other episodes
too um i really want him to help me with the blueberry because despite me being a uh obsessed
with blueberry he his memory is much better for the actual plants and plant numbers and what they
were like what they were used in and the actual technical side of the breeding of blueberry you
know i need to help if i can man yeah i wouldn't do it without you because i think that that's
probably some of the most important stuff and that's that's your your wheelhouse there
oh someone uh someone said they want to hear about my breeding oh it's very nice of y'all um
we could do a whole episode on it when it's time maybe maybe another time there is something i want
to leave you with though because yeah please do the most fun experiments that can be done with
the kit blue number two is a compound called uh for annual um also called strawberry fernum
where and the name really kind of messes with people because when most people smell it
it smells like really intense cotton candy like really like that smell burning sugar and there's
a few compounds that actually kind of have a similar odor to that but what's special about
that one is one sip left on my dry ass mouth um what's cool about that one is that it really is a
huge part of the natural aroma of strawberry one of my faves another but you'll never see it
unless you dilute it way way down and it's one of the most interesting things that you can do
with the kit as far as seeing kind of and i there's a lot to talk about another time the
way that we interpret scent how you know higher concentrations may smell like actually like an
actual different compound completely different than lower but very high concentrations of uh
for annual strawberry for a nun it smells like cotton candy like burnt sugar very low
it smells like that kind of soft strawberry that like laffy taffy has like a taffy high
chew kind of strawberry but as you take it kind of drop by drop and kind of we'll stir it and kind
of smell it again each time you can watch it transition between these or experience a transition
between these two absolutely fucking you know polar opposites scent wise between cotton candy
and strawberry and it's not like strawberry cotton candy like burnt sugar like when you're
close to the county fair kind of cotton candy yeah i like that if you have a moment at any
point you think it might be fun just take out some uh franial take a dropper a little jar
one or two drops in there and just start casually adding fucking carrier to it giving a little spin
each time and watch watch it or i keep saying watch experience it transition from uh cotton
candy of strawberries a real cool real simple effortless trick yeah i'm sure brin's gonna
want to go through this more now because she only got to do a bit but she's she loves scent
when brin goes through it she'll be sure to have one of these what is that did i show you this no
so i know i've told you that like one of the big inspirations for me with natural perfuming is a
lady called mandy aftell you follow her yeah yeah so this is her scent wheel this is her and because
so much of it is you know so much of this information the way we think through it the
process is universal between anyone between a flavorist between a perfumer between someone like
me who's somewhere in the middle of it all um but this is you know if you can kind of see it is a
pretty cool break oh it's all going to be backwards but what it is is it's not only
individual compounds but it's also some uh composite um like composite aroma materials
like you see that some of them are actually essential oils or the actual material itself
while others are actual compounds like what do i see
like ship it's you know ship that's in the kit between yes
between the advanced kit and the natural index which is like the kit in reverse it's like 63
distillations and then the cards are like the gcms results so it's like this and then
what appears in it and that's the tool to kind of help you put together how to identify those
compounds and compositions yeah their own ability um and that's always really cool but uh
the card that will wheel i got like 50 of them just like sweet yeah so i could pass them out
all the new members and you know my friends and all that shit and uh it's it's really cool and it
kind of helps you group them better and on the back it kind of is a nice little like light intro
to the idea of volatility and perfume uh top notes middle notes and bass notes are actually
you know scored yeah like one to a hundred and uh the way that you know they're the different you
know just i guess all the different elements of these compounds whether that's volatility whether
that's how it was extracted all of it kind of falls into it based on how we receive these
compounds how we uh interpret them how we assess them what hits us first what is lasting longer
and sits back while the first part dissipates and that's all a greater part of you know
volatility and its role in scent but you know just for people that get them without you know
starting any new conversations like that would be really cool to kind of see if they agree
yeah where it fells do you you know if you put you know anise basil or that's terrible because
they're so similar if i put anise jasmine and fur in some like would i see those as what lasts the
heart of something the base of something so interesting i just thought it'd be cool to
bust that out because i went yeah i did i don't i don't really you know i don't really like pitch
or sell anything so i was just like oh wait there's like a little perfume scent wheel that
people might fucking like all right so i'm gonna ask you where do you get your seeds at
you can just you can just email me but i mean i guess we need to try to get them on the site when
it's revamped so you know you know you know me dude i'm not i know dude yeah i know it's not
your main point of all this you your main point is education but you gotta plug it because people
are asking and they want to know where to get these fucking kits so we gotta do it because
these fucking things are awesome and they're so well done i'm so proud of you on this dude
i made this whole time without being pitchy or selling my kit like it would revolutionize you
know because it's what you make out of it man if you take it super far and dig into it you know
you can really do something and really expand your understanding of the materials of set in general
if you don't it's a fucking paperweight so like it's what you have it and it's the same reason i
don't want to pitch it because a lot of people's pitches are under the guise that if you buy this
this will happen and i can't promise what you'll do with anything can't promise good point so if
you know but i am here to talk about for people that did get one i know there's like a shit ton
of people who are going to have one um very very soon um and we'll they can they can always reach
out to me to talk i'm not unapproachable or mean i mean i i just get friendlier and sweeter as the
years go by yeah and and anybody that's watching this or listening to this on the podcast if you
go grab one um maybe we'll do a second episode where you know a lot of people have them in their
hands and we can fucking go over it again and get everyone's you know participation the audience
participation of what you're smelling because i think that's real valuable we can learn a lot
from each other by seeing what our own um interpretations of everything are i think
that's how you learn so yeah and um what like i said you know kind of at the beginning that's
really important because as much as we'd like to you know be able to be like oh this person's wrong
no one's wrong yeah you fit if your physiology makes you smell something this specific way
or your memory or your emotions you're not wrong i don't have to agree with you and it might be a
completely different experience for you but you're not wrong so that's why it's really awesome to
have a lot of people kind of voicing in and seeing if you know because when you have you know maybe
like 10 people you know maybe seven of them disagree with three of them but three of them
do agree and it's interesting to kind of see that and they can you know within their little subgroups
kind of identify if there's other commonality between the way you know they perceive things
it's it's cool i i would i would definitely do that yeah that'll be interesting also cry baby's
with us on the regency to patreon he's always there he's always interacting being super fucking
helpful one of the most knowledgeable guys i know so if you're part of the british syndicate patreon
you may be switching over to a new patreon um so yeah when we do i'll announce it but we may not
have to we're gonna see what's gonna happen um yeah go check out riot seeds.com that's gonna be
the site soon it'll be up in a few days um until then thank you cry baby very much we will see you
tomorrow everyone tomorrow 5 30 pm we're gonna be having chimera we're gonna be going over lab
tests how to uh how to go over them um how to interpret them and if you're here tonight it's
it's a great primer for what's gonna happen tomorrow as well you can be able to use both
sets of info and it was super important to have it back to back and that's why we're doing it two
nights in a row so uh i'll see everyone tomorrow thanks cry baby we'll have you on again soon
brother yeah let's go see him out have fun everyone
