Welcome to Breeder's Syndicate, where we explore the history of a clan-destined scene
through the eyes of the folks who lived it.
I'm Matthew, owner of Riot Seeds.
I'll occasionally be joined by my co-host, NotSoDog, breeder and grower from Mendocino.
Welcome to the underground.
I'd like to publicize, yeah, I'd like the word to get out.
I think the truth should be known, there's a lot of things that occur that people just
don't know about, they have a wrong slant on.
Sure.
And I'd like to set the record straight.
That would be amazing.
That's what our whole podcast is about, is correcting the history of cannabis since it's
been an oral history.
Most of Matt and I's goal, really, when it comes down to it, is that, like Matt was just
saying, most of the history is oral.
And then obviously, a lot of the people from the 70s and 80s that were integral to what
we do now are older now.
And so if we don't get the information, it'll be lost.
Lost in time.
Yeah, I think it should be recorded for posterity.
I think there's certain things that need to be straightened out.
Well, we'd love to hear it.
I mean, to be quite frank, while we have some ideas and questions, I bet there's a lot of
stuff in your head that we don't even know to ask about.
Oh, there's like 90% of it that happened, at least having to do with me.
It's just unknown to the general public.
Yeah, I would think so.
Well, I mean, this is kind of like an initial convo.
Matt's been, you know, Greg has been, we've talked to Greg numerous times and picked his
mind on things.
And he just kept referencing that probably the most important person in the whole story
he's talking to would be you.
At least in Seattle, I was kind of like a central figure in Seattle and Portland.
And I've kind of faded away a little bit in the public eye, but I'm still active.
I'm mostly wholesale now, a much larger volume.
But my retail is almost gone.
See, I could just start from the beginning.
Sure.
Okay, so, okay, I'm originally from the Fargo-Moorhead area.
I graduated from Concordia College.
And this was 1973.
It took an extra year.
See, I first experienced the Academy, I went to a university in California.
And I was living in the dorm.
And, you know, I mean, I'd read science fiction and stuff.
I graduated high school in 1968.
So I know a lot of science fiction.
So I was a libertarian with liberal views on pop.
But I never personally experienced it.
Sure.
And so then when I went out to the dorm, I didn't seek it out.
Because I had no idea what I was missing.
But then somebody shared a fake pot cigarette from Tijuana, which is just horseshit, you know, literally.
And so as a joke to see if I would freak out, we smoked it.
And then when I didn't freak out, they brought out the real stuff, we smoked.
And then I really got into it.
And, you know, I was a junior in college.
And at the time, see, there was a draft in the Vietnam War.
And then in order to get a deferment, you had to go to college.
You couldn't get a vocational deferment for a vocational school.
So I didn't really know what I wanted to do.
So I just majored in psychology, figured it was a scientific field, but it was easy.
And then I could just...
So then when I started smoking pot, I kind of saw the futility of it.
Because I would never get into grad school, a good grad school, because I didn't have foreign language skills.
Which, the best time to learn a foreign language is before the age of seven.
And your brain kind of shuts down and makes it more difficult after that time period.
So it was kind of silly to start high school teaching a foreign language.
I didn't really like the foreign language, so it was a little bit hard for me to get into grad school.
I didn't want to be a drug...
I could have been a drug rehab counselor, but I didn't want to do that because it's kind of stupid.
You know, if people wanted to get off drugs, they could just get off drugs.
It's not easy for counseling.
And it's pretty good for pot. There's no physical addiction.
There's maybe a psychological addiction, but that couldn't be true.
It's not like you can get off of food or sex or religion or a lot of things.
You get psychological addiction.
So anyway, so then I kind of stopped going to classes.
I kind of switched around.
Then I went back to Concordia College.
I might as well finish my degree, even though they had...
I got a high lottery number for the drafts.
I wasn't something to draft.
I thought, well, I might as well finish my degree, live at home, and go to college.
My mother was on the faculty, so I got an 80% faculty discount at a private college.
So I brought my education and went to about half my classes so I was able to graduate.
And then there was no jobs for a white male without any particular skills.
And that's why I wanted to go into drug counseling, which I didn't want to do.
So I just signed up for the Coast Guard.
I was stationed at the Germanium School in Petaluma, California.
Beautiful, just fell in love with that area.
It was right really close to the headquarters of Hydro Farm.
I was there before there was the Hydro Farm.
And I'd go to that beach, Bodega Bay.
You see those caves at the beach, the beautiful weather.
I'd go into San Francisco.
Actually, I preferred Berkeley.
There was a hotel in Berkeley on Telegraph Avenue for $6 a night.
And I kid you not, $6 a night right on Telegraph Avenue.
That's wild.
Every time I got leave, I'd...
They had a problem with night watches, so I didn't go there every time.
But every other weekend, I'd go down to the Berkeley area, buy some pints in the street.
Had beautiful restaurants there.
I just had a great time there in Berkeley.
On Telegraph Avenue, going to movies and restaurants and stuff.
So anyway, I got out of the Coast Guard early because I got injured.
I didn't really like it there, so I got an early discharge.
But I had the GI Bill, so I went to Armstrong Business College right there in Berkeley.
At the time, Armstrong was owned, privately owned.
The owner, his father, had started it in the 20s.
Back in the 20s, it was a real hip place to be.
It was like, if you wanted to go into business, but you didn't really qualify academically for Stanford or UC Berkeley,
you went to Armstrong Business College.
And at the time, this was the mid-70s, there was a lot of Iranian students there before the revolution there in Iran.
Yeah, that's right.
And they had a nude rap parlor there, it was a bordello, right there in Berkeley, called Diane's Nude Rap Parlor.
Oh, it was fantastic.
Prices started at $25.
It was just unbelievable.
And then eventually, they closed it down when the AIDS epidemic started in the Bay Area.
So then, after that, I went to the graduate school for about a year, and then I dropped out again.
Actually, I got my degree, but I dropped out of the business college and I went to work for a while.
I was working for a modeling agency managing strippers.
That's a hell of a job.
Yeah, and they were working.
At the time, the city of St. Paul was controlled by the organized families.
You had the Italians, you had the Irish, and the French.
There were three main families, and they all controlled it.
And we controlled three of the five seats on the city council.
Well, then, one of the city council members, Rosalie Butler, decided to clamp down on the strip clubs, ostensibly,
but it was really just an excuse to eliminate the competition.
Yeah.
We had the money, we could afford to partition it off, so it was a separate address, technically.
We had a connection, everybody's paid up, we got the permits and everything, and it was all approved.
We shut down the competition, so we had a virtual monopoly.
And then there was this long story.
I had a falling out with them after I realized they weren't serious about it.
They just had an idea to get the names and addresses of customers so they would know where to locate bars.
Okay.
Then I moved out to Seattle in 1981.
And then I went to New York Bursary Avenue, which was 20,000 people a day, foot traffic a day,
at Dr. Fieldman's head shop there, run by Jack Gerard.
Oh, wow.
And then I walked in there, and they had a pamphlet on anarchy, so I bought Jack Hudson's B-Day, and we got to talking.
I went to a voc school for a greenhouse nursery and computer programming.
But I didn't really want to be either one of those.
Greenhouse nursery, they start out at minimum wage, and it takes like 15 years to get someone to form it.
They have a lot of toxic pesticides, and it's just mostly Mexican labor, and so it wasn't a pretty highly paid field.
And computer programming was just too autistic for me, it was too logical.
I just couldn't wrap my head around it.
I didn't want to be a mediocre programmer with too many of those already.
They could fire 90% of the programmers, and it wouldn't make that much difference.
I agree. I went through that myself.
Yeah.
The top 10% of programmers are really the ones doing things, and the rest of them are just making errors and walking out of the program.
Creating problems for the other ones.
Yeah, and doing the minor stuff.
All the really core stuff is done by the top 10%.
So then I formed a partnership with him.
Well, little did I realize, I did not realize, that he turned out to be a neo-Nazi.
Who did?
What happened was there was a libertarian book store on the app which he bought out, and he started stocking it with neo-Nazi books.
Oh, lord.
So I was quite upset about that.
He was also breaking about the automatic machine gun that he had, which he must have gotten from the armory because Pat King worked in the National Guard and he must have had access to the bullets.
Sure.
But you can't buy these things legally unless you have a license.
Yeah, no way.
So we had a breaking up because I didn't really want to continue with this neo-Nazi guy.
So then I formed a Hydrotech sole proprietorship on University Avenue.
Well, at first things went really well.
We had superior technology because we had the first parabolite hoods.
Yeah.
Parabolite means it's like a parabolic, and you need that because what happens because of the inverse flare law, your intensity drops off with distance, right?
So the further the ball, the less intense it is.
So to compensate for that, you needed to increase the angle of reflection of the periphery to increase the intensity at the edge.
So you have a nice uniform distribution.
We had three, four, five, and seven foot parabolites.
In fact, the seven foot is the biggest one ever made.
That's for pounds of water.
If you have a lower water sodium, 250 or 400 in each corner for side lights.
So you'd have a total of 2000 watts.
And it was good, highly efficient hood and good distribution for side lights in the corners because your corners are the greatest distance from the center point of the light to the logical place to put it.
So we sold a lot of those, but it was kind of expensive.
Instead of buying 2000 watt lights, you had to buy five fixtures.
The other cost about the same, lower light and higher light.
And the hood was more expensive.
And so it wasn't real popular, but it was a major innovation.
And then other people started copying it.
The first person that copied me was a dance girl, Dan Murphy.
His son wrote, Steve Murphy, who owned, his son runs it now, Indoor Sun Shop.
I don't know if they're, I think they're still in Seattle.
The elder co-wrote it with the son of Dan Murphy.
And he did change his name to Murphy-Steven, instead of Steve Murphy.
So the two of them together, the name was just a coincidence.
Same similarity with this coincidence, first and last.
And they wrote one of the first, I think it was the first book on using 1000 watt highlights and sodiums in their recliner.
Prior to that, Ed Rosenthal co-wrote a book, the Bible, with, I forget the guy's name now, but he wrote it with somebody else.
And that somebody else became addicted to cocaine, and Ed Rosenthal bought out the rights to the book.
That Bible, that main book, that big one that Ed Rosenthal bases his whole reputation on,
he didn't actually write that, his partner wrote most of it.
And everything that Ed Rosenthal wrote subsequently to that has been inferior to the original book.
But he bases his whole reputation on that.
And then, so I came up with my own book, Growing Endorsement for Point of Profit, two editions.
First one printed $2,000, second one printed $5,000.
And I still have vacations of the second edition, and I think the first one I don't have any copies of.
But that was Color Uncover.
And it was the first really to look at HIV from a scientific viewpoint.
And then I started writing for Centimede Tips magazine.
At the time, it was the only alternative to High Times.
I wrote a few articles for High Times also.
But it was a Bill Lerner, I wrote for Maxim Yield in Canada.
But I think I was still Farmer in the Sky, I was still Farmer in the Sky when I wrote for Centimede Tips and High Times.
And our team was Larry and Wolfie.
Well, Wolfie, I let him use my name, Farmer in the Sky, because he said I needed to make a living and he could do that with podcasts and stuff.
But I don't think he's doing that anymore.
But I was the one that actually wrote the articles.
And I had a team that did the research for me.
Wolfie did the field research and Larry did the academic research.
And at one point I would come across stuff, you know, I was the first person to write about the air cooling for lights.
Separating a glass barrier and cooling off the part above the glass.
So I was the first person to write that.
And then the prototype that I saw was not an actual hood.
They had a glass pane covering the entire grow room.
And then what they would do is they would raise or lower the – that was in a fixed position.
They would raise and lower the plants depending on the height of it.
Oh, wow.
That was one way to do it.
And you could easily ventilate the entire area above the glass.
The problem with the bed and hood is that – a couple problems with the holes at either end.
It's a light capture.
You lose some light off those two pieces.
And plus the bulb must be up higher inside.
Then you lose – have more reflective glasses.
And you need less area of coverage.
And also the shape is all completely wrong.
So basically on the HID, nobody really has any good reflectors, including sunlight supply.
So every single thing that sunlight supply has made, and the same applies to hydroform for HID,
the reflectors are complete and total garbage.
Total garbage.
Just cheap to make?
Yeah, because it's just easy to make and just stamped out.
And then they just won't change.
They have no clue, not even the slightest inkling of how to design a hood.
Zero ideas.
And then Dan did copy my paraboloid hood,
but that became less favorable after they came out with the horizontal thing,
which I was a little bit late adapting to that,
because I was still stuck with the paraboloid.
The horizontal is particularly for lower wires.
You have some direct light, plus you have the crossover light,
and the hoods are much smaller and cheaper and stuff.
Back to that, where were you getting your –
I mean, obviously this is so long before the internet,
and this is kind of a niche market.
Where were you getting your research?
How were you finding –
At the library. I teach at the library.
I mean, I know that –
I worked in the hydroponic industry for a number of years,
obviously long after this,
but even to today, sunlight and hydroforms,
they only have maybe a couple of hoods
that use any kind of actual specific science behind them at all.
Most of them were just made up based on look with very little data.
I'm not aware of any science at all,
any of their hood designs for HID.
None. There's absolutely zero input at all.
Nothing to do with science.
For instance, on the, let's say,
the hydroform hood for the 315 ceramic ball halide,
it's a parody of how not to make a hood.
First off, the ball was too high up in the hood,
so you have more reflective lots inside the hood,
less area of coverage.
So you're using a specular material,
but the problem with specular material
is that the angles become very critical
because they reflect so exactly.
So if you don't have it exactly the right shape,
you're all wrong.
And plus, the problem is,
if they take this flat sheet of metal,
the problem is taking a flat sheet of metal
and making it into a curvature.
It's impossible to make.
You'd have to mold it
or polish it with special machinery.
How they polish the aluminum
is they basically just polish it
to make it specular and reflective.
And it can tarnish.
It can oxidize.
That's the problem.
So the angles are all wrong.
And plus, when you join the flat sheet of metal
into a crease,
it bounces back and forth in the crease.
So you're better off having a shallow hood
but having it white
so that you can diffuse it
and you do have some
internal light losses
or reflective losses
because some of the angles are wrong.
But it's easier to wash
or it doesn't tarnish with age.
The angles are not so critical
so you can just have
a cone hood type
with a flat top
so it's still kind of parabolic.
The flat top can be specular
because then you want the angles exact
to reflect around the bulb
So we designed a hood
for the 315 ceramics
that theoretically could be used
for 1000 watts even.
And I think we made a version
4000 watts early on.
So
the top is a composite.
The top part is specular where the angles are critical
and we have the exact right angles
and the shapes and everything
which is easy to do on a flat surface.
A little dimple in the middle.
And then on the outer side,
it doesn't
because it's circular
you don't have the creases
which bounce back and forth.
And you do have some light losses
but you have more advantage
to diffusion
and by having a shadow
you minimize the reflective losses.
In other words, you want a shadow
but you want a wider area of coverage.
Now people are saying,
well yeah but it's not as intense.
But when you have multiple lights
they overlap.
You have multiple angles of light.
So you don't really lose the intensity
with this one.
It just spreads out
and then when it spreads out
it can be combined with other light angles.
So let's say we have four lights
minimum American mass,
four 315s, you get about 1250 watts
and it's now in the middle
you get light from four different angles.
And the other place you're getting
from two or three different angles.
You can get away with shallow hood.
Now I don't recommend a deep hood
if you have one hood.
Or you could have
as a periphery you could have a hood
that was deep on one side
so you want light escaping
the greenhouse and inside
you want to minimize the light hitting the wall
because the walls are not the right shape.
So anyway,
we started sticking with thousand waters
mostly. We went with half
halogen, half sodium.
We were just going half and half.
It was even and mixed.
There were small hoods, much cheaper to make.
We had a problem with the hoods
though because we were making by hand
the angles were not always so exact.
So we had some difficulties
so it was kind of an impractical hood.
We did sell a lot of them back in the heydays.
See back in the 80s
the baby boomers, they were flush with cash.
Everybody came into bricks and mortar stores
and paid cash and they had lots of money.
An ordinary guy could buy a house
cheap in Seattle in the 70s
and even into
the 80s a little bit on and off
you could buy a cheap house in Seattle
and buy some lights
and make a good living off that.
Those days are gone.
Now the houses in Seattle
start at around close to a million dollars.
It's nobody with that kind of money
is going to want to grow
a pot
unless they're medical marijuana
but most of the money
they don't buy, they just go down to the 420 store
and they buy it.
So we started promoting
the legalization of Washington state
but it never got anywhere
because we were still a voice in the wilderness.
Then I opened up a store
in Portland, Oregon.
What happened was, Haley of Oregon
which now they call them by a different name
I forget what they call themselves now
they're at Stark Boulevard
in Portland still to this day I think
they moved out and then
the publisher of Mississippi Tips
told me about it so I moved in
to their former location.
So we got all the former customers going there
and they also went broke.
What kept them going is they started growing some pot
I think, I can smell it
and then
what happened was
the other thing is
there was a problem
over the UL listings
Oregon is one of seven states
that have a UL listing at point of sale
not just at the point of installation
and that point of installation does not require
a UL or ETL listing
it requires compliance with the NAC code
which incorporates
the UL standards
for the HID
so
1572 UL manual
so anyway
but nobody had a UL listing
but they were selling in Oregon
well then Sam Sturkin
took me off to the city of Seattle
over a sign that I had
was they're not compliant
and then I got really pissed off at him
and then he bragged to me about
he was bribing the inspector
to not enforce the UL
requirement
so I figured I'll just call up this
inspector and tell him
what Sam told me
because
he has a big mouth
the inspector
had a right to know
that he was being bribed
and Sam was bragging about it
so I told him about it
and he went on a rampage
and then he shut them all down
except Hallyday, Oregon opened up a branch
in Vancouver
so they could take the money
in Portland
where there was no sales tax
but supposedly make delivery in Vancouver
where there was no UL requirement
and then also
Craig
at Sunlight Supply
used to be partners with Terry
but they split up, Terry took the industrial part
and then Craig took the commercial part
Craig used to be my salesman
actually Terry was my first salesman
then Craig, they split up
and Craig was my salesman
and you owned
huh?
you owned Hydro Tech?
I'm the owner of Hydro Tech
I just wanted to make sure that was on record
yeah I'm the owner of Hydro Tech
and I'm the one who actually wrote the article
I had a team that worked with research
Wolfie did the field research
and Larry did the academic early on
and later on I took over some of the academic stuff
and everybody else
would tell me something new
that I'd write about
and then I branched off
and sent to me tips writing political articles
under the name of Esperanza Guadil
which means we are waiting for Guadil
that's awesome
I wrote a book review of the anarchist cookbook
which I exposed as a fraud
with fake recipes that would blow you up
or hurt you
and I said
obviously it's an entrapment here
some guy worked for the CIA
or something
at the time the author
Powell I think was his name
was teaching at the University of Riyadh
in Saudi Arabia
well then I called the publisher
I said I'm sorry
what's going on here
and then I started to ask
my thing came out
it was published first
and then it was published
in the New Libertarian
and then it was put on the internet
in the mid 90's
well as soon as my thing was published
I called him up
and said what's going on
and he quit his job at the University of Riyadh
and came back home
did you ever see that documentary about him
by email Kevin Scott Bjornsson
K E B I N S E O T T
Bjornsson is B as in boy
J O R N
S O N
at gmail.com
anyway I think you can still see residues
of my book review on the internet
although most of it has been scrubbed
because they don't want this information out
because I put formulas in there
that I said
but it's fake formulas
the real formula where you can make
MMDA which is a better version
than MDA because it's more mild
and it's more of a safer
high
you can make it with L-tryptophan
MDA just felt like meth
yeah so no you have to go to MMDA
made from natural
L-tryptophan which was
illegal for a while
it was legal and it was illegal
it went back and forth but it's still legal
today because it's a vitamin
and it produces some kind of high
and you can't really make it active
you need to process it
and also somebody said it was not made
I had all the formulas in there
based on the research
and it was kind of a minor
sanitation
so I think you can still find it
formulas for non-survivables
titled the review
and it was Esperanza
Godot was the author
that I used the name
you can probably still find it
so anyway
I moved down to Portland
and the problem was
retelling the inspector
about this bribery
bragging
it got around the city of Portland
but they didn't really like me
you know
and making trouble
for their bribery scheme
so when I started having huge business
there in my Portland store
the Portland police started surveilling it
there was one cop
Wilson I think his name was
they would just park his car there
scaring my customers away
and the undercarriage would follow people home
27 people
got sued over that
and the judge showed me
a stack of files
and he said 27 cases
each case had their own little file
people busted
nothing else but following them home
so famous people
famous athletes
ripped the guts out of my business
and then I had problems
with the soil
crop losses
things really went downhill
so I was getting real
during the peak
we were doing $10,000 a day
in each store on a good day
in the peak season
so what happened was
then
I didn't stop the surveillance
and then what happened was
my
comrades that are
admitted to me that
if they hadn't been able to buy advertising
early on and consistently
he would have folded the magazine
I was the one that made it possible
if it weren't for me
they would have been
attempting to fold it after the first couple of years
I have a big collection of the old magazines
and I'm used to seeing your ads in there
yeah, yeah
I was always the back cover
or the inside back cover
or the inside front
so what happened was
George Cervantes sent me a letter
and then asking for some kind of help
it wasn't clear what kind of help he wanted
so I just ignored him
I was already an established columnist
who was this George Cervantes guy
working in a greenhouse
vague request
so I just ignored him
he was the editor of Pennsylvania Tips
for one issue
and he put plasters on the front cover of his book
tooting his own horn
and then
Alex didn't like people tooting their own horn
like he said
I didn't see anything wrong with it
I didn't think anybody liked his book
I think
everybody's self-interest
sometimes we all self-promote
but Alex took a different view
and he fired George Cervantes
for a high time
so later on
after the book's been out for a while
I examined it
and I found 27 factual errors
I called him up and I said
George, I discovered 27 factual errors
in your book
did you want to deliver those now?
he says no
he doesn't care
the guy's a good promoter
he's a good businessman
he knows how to promote
but he's really on lighting
he's completely clueless
he has no idea about lighting
that's a lie
that's a lie
they're good at promoting but they're talking out their ass
same thing with Ed Rosenthal
Ed Rosenthal knows about the plant
or at least his partner did
and he does know
something about the plant
but he doesn't know anything about lighting
and George isn't much better
what George would do
if I moved into a former location in Portland
he would hang out in the Hallie's of Oregon store
the same location
and talk with growers
that's how we got his insights
his idea was to just mirror
what the average grower was doing
and just bring it down to a book
but see that's not my purpose
my purpose was to do
what the best growers were doing
and to speculate
what they might be doing
that would be even better
and to elevate the industry
but George just wanted to tell people
oh yes what you're doing
I'll pat you on the back
what you're doing everything's fine
I'm just going to buy the book
and make a lot of money
so he's not contributing anything at all
to the industry
all he does is report back to the industry
what it's already doing
and then patting them on the back
he has no idea
beyond just a well informed person
who knows what conventional lighting is
he's clueless
he has no idea
now Wolfie does know some more
but he has so many problems
he was in prison for 15 years
he got kind of mentally out of it
and when I came back out
I introduced him to Gerald
and Gerald educated him
and he got really mentally aware
and he got better and better
but he's kind of an abrasive personality
I mean I had a meeting in Seattle
my best customers would come to me
and say that if I didn't fire them
or get rid of them
they would quit
they would quit buying from me
so I transferred them down to Portland
and they didn't want to fire him
because he was so brilliant
I would make this for a billion people
even if they're other character flaws
I look at the brilliance of it
so Wolfie is brilliant
I'll tell you that
he's very detail oriented
he's very good at lighting
he's probably one of the top people
in the world
about plant lighting
but it's hard for him to translate it
into the actual business
because that requires a whole different skill set
so anyway
what happened was
then
our business started declining in Portland
and then the magazine
started attracting attention
what happened was
the people, the American companies
because High Times is a kind of general interest magazine
they had a section on
on growing pot
but Cincinnati was just on growing pot
so these Latin American countries
during the Bush senior administration
were complaining
why should we bust our own citizens
and put them in prison
and ruin their lives
when you yourself
are allowing these companies
to sell these grow light equipment
they had their own magazine
Cincinnati Tips
so that's when they decided
to operation green merchant
to crack down and everybody associated with High Times
and Cincinnati Tips magazine
the investigation
went on for several months
and that's what
during this period was 27 of my best customers
were shut down
so my business was drying up
because all the surveillance
and plus I had a lot of internal theft
because I was not managing it very well
I wasn't firing people
I had people who were
thieves
see everybody thought
that I was going to go out of business soon
so they wanted to steal from me while they could
while I was still around
but I kept on surviving
and eventually I figured out who they were
and I would fire them
but as soon as I fired one
there was like two others that sprang up
and they went out of business soon
and they might steal from me
and this cycle
so between the three thefts
the loss of business
because of the surveillance
I was really hurt
so then what happens
the green merchant came
and we were going to 66 shops
that were hit that day
top shops in the country
the ones that are most prominent
or they advertise anyway
they had the record of receipts
the other ones
they had
there were three levels
most of the inventory was taken
they could get all of that in one day
plus their records of receipts
and the bank receipts
in fact the bank turned me in
what happened was my employee
deposited over $10,000 one day
and I asked him for ID
if they had
he would have come back to me
I would have thought they had done it
but he wasn't told that
and then later on
afterwards
he came back to me and said
we want to deposit this
so we can fill out the currency transaction report
I said no
that's your obligation
it's not my obligation
you should have told me right off the bat
I would have made the deposit
I would have still given my ID
but you didn't do that
so they took me out
for this currency transaction thing
and then they wanted to retaliate against me
with this investigation
which I had done my best customer with
so this escalated
into this operation green merchant
which I was the primary target
that is wild man
because I was the poster boy for it
I was the main advertiser
for CentiMedia Tips
that's when I was in the Coast Guard
I told my commanding officer
that my dad was
the chairman
of the
downtown merchants association
that was my record
plus
I had some seeds there
I would plant the seeds
right there
in the dormitory
you know
I had a reputation back then
so then I think
they just put his name
and turned it into green merchant
because I was my dad's
downtown merchants association
I was the green merchant
so that's where the name came from
my dad was
not a chamber of commerce
just a downtown association
in Moorhead
but that was destroyed later on
by urban renewal
so anyway
so I was the main inspiration
for green merchant
and I was
the most vocal person
in terms of ads
and articles
so I thought I was the kingpin
they had to shut me down
and the whole industry was fooled
so they stopped
the fantasy world
so then what happened was
they seized my inventory
almost all of it
they couldn't get it all in one day
so I closed my Oregon store
the other shops in Oregon
at the time were not hit
but all the shops in Seattle were hit
except for Echo Enterprises
so I had a better chance in Seattle
plus Seattle's average IQ
is about one standard deviation
above the average IQ in Portland
so I wanted to come back to Seattle
more civilized territory
and then I controlled it
by bringing the inventory
I had 5% inventory in each store
I consolidated it into 10% inventory in one store
so I was selling lights
in Seattle at the time
because Echo was not selling lights
that's one of the reasons they escaped
they weren't selling lights
just for hydroponics
they didn't advertise
the high times orphan to meet tips
so they escaped that
later on they became a big wholesaler
in the Seattle area
on Skate's 1
they got escaped
they wanted to survive
so I was back in Seattle
they seized my inventory
they were trying to charge me criminal money
so and then what happened was
I was partnering with Paul Stanford
in a grow up
big back track
prior to that I had a
grow up operation
but I never made any money
after growing up
I lost money in the growing up
I was internally stolen from
so what happened was
he wanted to grow up with me
but he wasn't
he thought he would clean up
the grow house
and he swept things
the leaf clippings
and some mail
junk mail with my name on it
and they threw it in my dumpster
so the cops saw that
they searched the dumpster
but they couldn't find anything
it looked like it was garbage
they might have seen something
well then my store manager
not knowing about any of this
he saw something there
that we were being set up
so he reported it
and then they couldn't ignore it anymore
so then they got me
and then they got the search warrant for the house
and they found some residue there
they found some residue
in two places
there's still some residue there
and so
anyway and they charged me criminally
with that
and then
so then at the time
all they wanted was just a plea bargain
just to me it said yeah
okay I was doing this and that
but no information
about other third parties
at the time
but what happened was
I had one more girl left
partnering with Paul Stanford
what happened was
he was big
he was in the medical clinic
for medical marijuana
until they got ripped off by a Canadian firm
and now we still have one left
but it's in Portland only
and it's a small outfit
and he went to China
and bought the hemp there
and all that kind of stuff
he's bugging me about this Russia thing
just because I want to get along with Russia
he wants to get along with China
but I'm the bad guy
I want to get along with both China and Russia
especially Russia
because I'm not a competitor
of both
so anyway
what happened was
one of the girls they had was with Paul
it was insecure because somebody had broken in
to the window trying to steal things
and plus the guy we had house sitting
he got lonely
so he invited this guy over there
to show him off the place
he got a ride home from some market
he was getting free food at
and then he would bring him home
to show him off
to break him off
to get social
so I told Paul
it's insecure
they tried to break in
but he got a new place
I thought it was like normal
just open the newspaper
and pay $5,000 cash for down
and buy a house in Portland
for $16,000 like usual
instead he tries to buy the house
at a former location
it was a peaceful idea
you don't have a clean break there
so then he pays
$6,000 down
and then
the guy who was planning to go to India
and retiring
but he had a medical condition
which made it difficult
and he changed his mind
after receiving the money
would not turn the house over
and would not return the money
so then Paul
Paul denies this
but at the time I had heard
that his attorney had sent a threatening letter
threatening him with a lawsuit
regardless of Paul's right
or whatever
I heard it from Pfeifferberg
the end result was
he felt threatened
and he decided to turn us in
he turned us in, not me
or Paul
he turned us in
and he knew where our location was
because he had been invited over there
oh my god
and so here I am on pre-trial release
because I got a retrial criminally
and what happened was
I was
I lost my girlfriend
because of this
so I had to go with escort girls
and one of them I went down on
and she had some cocaine on her pussy
so I had a low level of cocaine
just barely enough to register
so when I was tested it showed up
as a positive
even though I ignored it
because I was so low
but biting with this bust
of this house
thanks to Paul's
the way he tried to buy this house
insecurely
that would have got me
on a cocaine positive test
and another
while I was on pre-trial release
oh no
that's bad
and I said well now you got to cooperate
to get the same deal
you got to cooperate
oh shit
otherwise they charged me
I'd write that the 212 years
212 years I could have been charged with
totally
and it all came to
historical plant counts
and money laundering
oh they threw the kitchen sink in there
so oh shit
well my attorney Eric Woodard
had worked with John Howell
the prosecutor previously
they're both on the county level prosecutors
they had a rapport right
so he said ok we'll sign you this deal
you don't have to commit to anything beforehand
just say you're going to cooperate
so I said ok I'll cooperate
I signed this deal
and they interviewed me and said well what do you know
I said well I don't know anything
you already got everything
I did know a couple other places
I had one other girl left
and I knew about
I think I knew about another place
but why should I tell them
what good would that do me
all I could do was get them pissed off
by not cooperating
but I could say I just didn't know
and what can I do
you know
so because at the time
they was signed on my agreement
I didn't promise anything
I said ok I'm a cooperative
but I don't know anything
and then he said
well you gotta do something
otherwise I'll have egg in my face here
and we are surveilling your store
in Seattle but it's costing a lot of money
if you do the surveillance it will save us some money
so I said ok
so you gotta give us license plate numbers
ok I'll do that
but I give them fully license plate numbers
because at the time
I had a sign in my store saying
that I was going to park the place under surveillance
and park the car away
so everybody who parked their car at the store
had a fully license plate number
or I would make sure it was fully numbered
you know I can't remember
but either way it was all fully license plate numbers
and the DEA guys
were not interested in it
because they only have one truck there
and it's busy every day
they bust
every one place their girl
they get one or two referrals
from somebody who has 4th amendment information
just because you've been in the store
is not sufficient for the 4th amendment
they don't want to do their work
these are the guys who drank beer in high school
they're not really interested in doing a lot of work
they're just some random people showing up at grocery shops
so I gave them fully license plate numbers
but what happened was
I was in communicative
with Paul at the time
because we were both under legal problems
yeah
and so I wanted to let him
on the scam that I was pulling
so I'd say you get off
you're cooperating and you're not really cooperating
and you get fired for the scam
but he'd interpreted it wrongly
and I wrote a letter to the judge
kind of glorifying what I was doing
which is basically a lie
and he got a hold of that
and he made a big stink out of Bud
and we were not in communication
I couldn't explain to him until years later
so
what happened was
I gave them license plate numbers
and also some canceled checks
which they could have gotten
because I received my bank account anyway
and nobody's paying checks
and they're all minor amounts
and nobody was interested
the D.A. wasn't interested in that
and then
an interesting side light on that
so I get this bad reputation
I lose 80% of my customers
because Paul publicized this
without consulting with me
and I could have told them what was going on
but he didn't want to know
he had self-recognition
and the other thing
years later we were taking up a support and place
for doing this
sending him letters to his private address
accusing me
of wanting his children
because he had some children at the time
he was the only one who had a homosexual parental file
which is totally bogus
not true
so Paul was all
we're both less than half of the same woman
but she chose me over him
so I did him once
but he gave me a girlfriend with me
well I later on dumped her
because I found a better girlfriend in Seattle
I had three girls but simultaneously at the time
and then the green merchant put a print on this
so
well one of them continued on afterwards
but then I dumped her anyway
because she was important and I was in Seattle
so anyway he was all jealous with me
because we had a rivalry
plus he thought maybe he had designs
on his children
plus we were not in communication
so he instead of getting my side of the story
he comes out with a PGA article
and accuses me
of being a DEA friend
which is not the case
the whole prosecution resolved
from my sole fault from that girl
now there's an interesting
side eye on this with the DEA guys
because I was in the custody of the DEA
in order to be released again
and those two guys
they were just average beer drinkers
kind of jerks
but they were just
nothing really out of the ordinary type of guys
you know
and so
my landlord
at the time
had an escort business
what happened was
he had made money
with a Colombian cartel
by going down
they had these RB's
they were chock full of money
you know cash
you come to this RB
and you get a lot of cash
and they turn it into money orders
so we can ship it down to Colombia
so then he got greedy
and he took off
and he gave him a quarter million
and he kept the quarter million
so then he comes to me afterwards
and tells me what he had done
and I said oh shit
and he gets reported for the cash
but they see a guy with a
Hispanic last name
depositing a quarter million dollars
in cash
and that's what a bank account
was no possible means of business
of course they're going to record him
but not me, it's not my fault
so anyway he gets the money stolen
and he goes to Spain
figuring out how to hide out there
well that was the favorite place
for the Colombian guys to hang out
and half of them are Spanish
so they catch him up there
in Spain
and they say well you got to pay us back
if you don't have the cash
you're going to have to open up an escort business
we'll give you the cocaine
and we'll get like 3 cents
because the cocaine from them was a barbiturary priest
they gave him the cocaine
and they were to get all these beautiful young girls
I mean he had really the best escort girls
he had more girls than he had clients
top quality, I mean nice girls
but some of them
wouldn't take the call if they wanted cash
so Vic had to sell it on the street
well then the local cops
caught wind of this and told the DEA
the DEA goes to me
they had to drive me in their car
both of them
and they say well there's a problem
Vic is not supposed to sell this stuff at retail
and I want you to relay a message
tell them to stop doing that
or we're going to have to close them down
so at the time
but afterwards I had to think about
wait, they're not supposed to tell me
that they're investigating
that they're investigating
and threatening
like a second chance
if we shut down local actors
that's not how they operate
so it was obvious that the Colombian guys
had paid off the DEA
for the wholesale operation
but not the retail
so why go to Vic and tell them
of course
I mean
they'll tell
so Vic is all freaked out
he was in Mexico for 6 months
and then he comes back
and I just lied to him
I swore I did not make it up
they actually told me
I highly suspect
the DEA guys
were getting bragged
also by escort girls
so basically
I was a pimp for the DEA
I'm not that kind of guy
that's chin chin
they're not supposed to report
they're not supposed to go
to a close associate of your suspect
and tell them to warn the suspect
to fly straight
or they're going to close them down
that's not how they work
they're not supposed to do that
so obviously there was a pay off
to keep the whole thing hushed up
he wasn't supposed to have sold retail
he was doing it retail
I didn't get a lot of attention
on the street
because most of it was all dollar rate
this was straight stuff
straight from Colombia
before it was taxed
I didn't approve any of that stuff
that's how I got the positive opinion
one of the girls I was with
I let her post it
and she had cocaine on her pussy
that's how I got involved in that
so anyway
80% of my customers
and High Times interviewed me
and they said well okay
we hear your side of the story
we'll report some of it in our article
but if we hear anybody get busted
you're going to come down and cut down our bridge
well nobody got busted
so High Times laid off me
after that small little interview
they did
but Paul would never retract the article
even after
years later I saw him at the Hempstead
and gradually we warmed up
and I explained to him what was going on
and he said oh okay fine
and then he even interviewed me
a couple times for his radio show
I don't think it was all forgotten
but he never retracted the article
in fact sometimes if he gets pissed at me
or if he disagrees politically
on the Facebook
he'll bring up the post the article again
what?
yeah he would post the feature article
which implicated me as being a front
or he would pick at me politically
I'm not a Trump crazy guy
half the stuff he's doing is okay
he's a better alternative
to Hillary Clinton
who is totally
medically insane
and she's totally corrupt
and she'd be worse off than Trump
I thought it was the worst
choice the Americans have ever been given
for two politicians personally
well yeah I wasn't happy with either one
my first choice was Rand Paul
I still was my first choice
I had a different choice of Ted Cruz
but I didn't really like Ted Cruz
but my choice of Rand Paul
but he didn't have the gumption
he didn't have the cojones
that it takes to become a nominee
Trump got that so I had to support him
as an alternative to Hillary
well then we had peace in the Middle East
we had peace for Israel
and the Arab states
and I was the first historic
and no major wars
and stuff like that
that's why I support Donald Trump
because under Biden
he's got a government
by committee
there's no coherence of plan
and so one faction
will do one thing
and the P's or Mandela
faction will do something else
and step on their toes
and it's totally contradictory
thanks to Biden
he's totally in confidence
he's like operating
dementia, early stage Alzheimer's. You can see brain freezes. He's not really the president.
He is Harris is really the president, but she's in charge, major corporations.
And the deep state are in charge, right? And they're not all of a one opinion either.
That's what makes this mishmash. Anyways, go back to the main story is that, okay, so then
we have a very convincing study on a personal level, but then he won't retract the article.
And we're still Facebook friends. And he kind of does not say about, he tried to minimize these
Portland riots. I've seen the explications up. Many businesses, small business were first,
they had the lockdown. Second, they had the writing and the vandalism, which is where the
business is. Recently, the Nordstrom in downtown Seattle, somebody took a hammer to their windows.
Each of those windows costs like $50,000 because they're so big.
Oh, no reason. Just to analyze Nordstrom. They're probably going to close the Nordstrom store
downtown now. And it's just totally crazy. And these people say at these chads on these
trap zones and stuff, taking their former revolution. They have no clue. No, not even
the status quo of where to go. But let me say zero. And then they rampaging. I think they're
shutting down the courthouses. What's your alternative? This mob removal then? No, we need
this courthouse to enforce contracts and things like that. It can be improved. Sure. But that's
a political thing. And they get to, if you don't have the courts and the police, you're going to
have anarchy, mob rule. And so, and many businesses were destroyed by the lockdown. And by the way,
in these lockdowns, the purpose of lockdown has nothing to do with the virus. Absolutely not.
I thought the purpose of lockdown, the purpose of lockdown is to shut down small businesses
for the benefit of the Walmart. The Walmart and Home Depot and Amazon, their business is double
now. At the cannibalizing Main Street. Wall Street is cannibalizing Main Street. It's a
takeover that part of the billionaire's coup, what it was. And this virus, by the way,
Obama discovered that the Wuhan lab that we're financing research was unsafe. So he
told him to shut it down. Then Fauci does an end around Obama, funnels the money to the EcoHealth
Alliance, which then funds the same research at the Wuhan labs. They were creating a chimera
virus, which is almost impossible to occur naturally because they have different habitats.
The pangolin and the bats have different habitats. And also the wet market doesn't
even sell bats. So it's like 99.9% certainty it came from the lab. And it was probably
that the chimera virus is a genetically engineered virus. And the purpose of that was to make it more
communicable so they could research it. Well, what if it happened in nature? Then we had to
prepare for it. Well, this what if never happened, except that they created something, what they
created, right? And then November of 2019, some lab workers were infected, it was all hushed up.
And they spread it by accident, they got infected and they get spread that way and in Wuhan.
And so now if you try to say any of this stuff on Facebook, you get
basically, it's for the fact check and suppress. I've been channel banning on Facebook to the point
where I have over 500 Facebook friends, and I post something most people never even see it.
Yeah, and the only people that even comment is like maybe half dozen of my close friends who
comment a lot about it. Yeah. And so, you know, I disagree with a lot of stuff that Trump has done.
I think Jeff Sessions was a very bad choice. He could have picked a worse choice for a
Turing general. As far as POTUS is concerned, he was good at maybe some other things, but
and he made some a bunch of mistakes. Right. But he is a moderate, he's a middle of the road
New Yorker. You know, he's a moderate. What can I say?
A little bit. Huh? He's kind of a moderate fascist, only a little bit.
Well, we're under fascism right now, under Biden's fascism too. Yeah,
and there's even more fascism, but at least with Trump, you had small businesses that were
tolerated, right? But now, for small business, you're locked down and you can't be open.
So what I had to do, I had to call my store bricks and mortar, but then I could do a mail order.
But the bail order business is shut down a lot because these 502s,
most of these licensed growers are buying in large quantities and they don't buy to local
grow shops. They either buy from the hydroform, sunlight supply, or they fly out to China and buy
direct. Yeah. So and it has to be UL listed and mine's not. The new stuff is not. So what I've
done, I've gone into the wholesale business only. I actually have much more volume now than ever.
The last few years, I've done like twice more volume than in my entire history.
That's wild. Even when I was doing big business in the 80s, it was all retail.
Yeah. It was much higher profit margin. Now I have maybe 1% profit margin, but it's on a very
slender profit margin, but it's much larger volume. So that's how I stay in business. Plus,
I get a Social Security retirement and I'm living in a rooming house here, which we have access to
at workshop. So we have space for the business and the store stuff. And I live very cheaply here.
I live off Social Security retirement. And then I'd work on before I get a sale. And then I use
that sale. I gradually build up inventory so I can reopen my bricks and mortar store eventually.
I got a bunch of equipment here. I got thousand watt Allied Ballast I can sell you for
$5. I tried to sell it for $10 and nobody would buy it. This stuff used to go for like $60.
And now you're lucky to get five. I can scrap it. It takes a lot of work to scrap those things.
You got to separate the iron core from the copper wires. That's a lot of work.
That is a lot of work. I might do that eventually, but if I get hurt up, I make a couple hundred
bucks. But anyway, I have a lot of equipment just donated to me. Peter B even drove down
from Seattle to donate the stuff to me. So I have a shill loads of use equipment,
thousand watt mostly. And then the main thing I'm selling now is a ceramic metal halide. Now
in greenhouses are better than led in some ways because you have some infrared half of the
infrared of HPS. HPS morning than you need. But the infrared is such a downward three feet. So
you can warm the plant zone in a winter time in a temperate climate where it's cold in the winter.
Yeah, it makes some sense. But it's higher wires. If you have a small hole like we have,
then you can mount it up higher and have less of a sun shadow. And so, and then it,
then plus it keeps the plant warm in the wintertime so you don't have to heat your greenhouse.
So it is a smooth, continuous effect. The problem with these LEDs,
they're based on the color rendering index. And the ones that good ones, 90 plus,
90% natural sunlight, but they measure them at eight discrete points,
slices of the spectrum. So the LEDs are, they cater them to maximize at those eight nodes.
Those are smooth, continuous spectrum. Plus they all, most all of them have a dip
right there, a section of the blue. So it's not a, it's not smooth, continuous like ceramic. Now
ceramic has, I think it's, oh, 1.9 micro moles per whatever, you know, and the LEDs have at
least 2.9. So theoretically, the LEDs are higher, but they don't have the infrared,
which you can use in a greenhouse. Plus the quality of the light of ceramic is better
because it's more continuous. I'm a pretty big fan of ceramic myself.
It's cheaper to get into it per watt. So if you're a basement grower and you can,
you can recycle the heat from your ceramic to heat your house. So you're not really losing
the energy. It's double use of it. And so if you have four of these 315 ceramics, you can do
15 plants easily in Washington state, legally. And you can do two to four hours per plant,
get a nice respectable yield. So I still have those. I've sold three, I'd like to get 350,
but I can do it. I can do it like 300 if I had to. And my website's got all got hacked,
but the Indian hackers, so, but I do have a Facebook page and you can get behind the content
information, Hydro Tech, H-Y-D-R-O, two words, second word T-E-C-H, Facebook page. And you have
the kind of information there. Now I just, basically I just have, I don't have commercial
information. I just have technical information. As they want to buy lights, they just give me a
call. I got lights right here. I'm ceramic metal handling. I mostly wholesale them though. I didn't
really push the retail because I do mostly wholesale. I'm working on a $23,000, $21,000
sale right now. I've had $54,000 sales almost routinely in the last few years.
And, but I think as I could get more, I have two main customers and two small ones,
two or three small ones, but I don't really want any more because it's just too much work.
It's too hard to manage. Plus if I got too big, I would encroach upon supply territory
and they will complain. I want to be unobtrusive, you know? So I'm keeping with the accounts that
I have, the wholesale accounts. Not somebody comes to me, then yeah, I'll sell to them,
but I'm not going to go out there and put myself out there and try to hustle.
People respect me because I'm completely honest. I mean, I'm completely honest.
If I can't do a deal and something happens, I'll give them a cash refund. I'm honestly telling them
what the tax is not called details, the financial details. I'm willing to take a very low markup,
but it can usually be cheaper than any other place I can get it from.
I have a few questions for you. Back in the day when you were running your shop,
you probably had a lot of different growers come in, I assume, since you were selling lights and
whatnot. What kind of strains were the first strains you were seeing come around?
Well, the big one is UW strain. I think they call it G13, but I'm not sure. What we call it is just
a new Dutch strain. What happened was in the 70s, they were doing some research at UW.
Somebody that worked in there took some cuttings and put it into the free market, and now it's
been passed out since then. I don't know if I ever used it. I may have, I don't remember.
I know some of the top breeders, the traditional ones, the old guys,
in Amsterdam. One guy was from Australia, and he got busted in Australia and he barely escaped.
Which guy? I forget his name, but he was a very well-known name.
Tony Mulloway.
Huh?
Was it Tony Mulloway?
No, that was the guy that was in the free market.
No, that was not his name. He sold teas out of Holland, then he wanted to retire.
Oh, Nepples.
Yeah, that was the guy. Yeah, Nepples. He wanted to retire with a sheep rancher in
Australia, where he came from. The US got arrested there, and then he finally got released. He had to
pay a $100,000 bond, and he got released. As soon as he got released, he fled back to Holland.
Yeah.
Yeah. George brought him over, and I think it was Nepples, brought him over to my store in Portland.
By the way, the backstory of that, M&R Lighting, when I had a store in Portland,
they opened up a store almost right across the street, M&R Lighting.
In Seattle, they opened up a branch in Portland, just like me.
But they had branches all down the West Coast, everywhere from LA to Anchorage,
all up along the West Coast, M&R Lighting. We became big competitors in Oregon. We had price
wars in the 80s. We'd advertise on the radio on 1,000-watt halide prices. We had a price war.
But it got down, we were selling it at cost, literally at cost. I had my own customer,
I had so much cash, I'd give my regular customer, I'd put on some cash, I'd go over to M&R Lighting,
buy all their phosphorus halide. He would do that, so I'd have the stock.
And then he'd go to the radio and say, they don't have it in stock. And I was the only one
who bought them out. That's smart.
So afterwards, the price war, which is kind of financially ruinous for everybody.
So then, George had bought his, he was the head of a store in Portland for six months.
He had a meeting, we had a meeting there, Tom Alexander, Tom also had a store at the time,
he had a meeting of all the grow shops, and it's called Truce in this price war.
So I went to the store and I agreed to the truce, we agreed to a $65 price for 1,000-watt halide.
And ever since then, I've respected that price. So I went along with our agreement,
even though it was antitrust. I don't refuse an accommodation,
that's the declaration coming from George Cervantes. And then Tom Alexander and everybody
was there, we all agreed to it. So yeah.
Do you know who brought that G13 cut to the table for Cervantes?
I don't know, but I think it was G13, but it was called the VW strain,
but it was widely circulated in Seattle throughout the 70s and 80s.
It might still be around, I don't know if it still is, but after a time, you get genetic
drift and these cuttings and cuttings and cuttings, so I don't know if it's still around. But
I tell you, it sure was popular in the 70s and 80s.
Well, I know the Pacific Northwest hash plant's still around,
which might be considered the original UW, I'm not sure. I know for sure that one's around,
but we're still trying to figure out if that was the original G13. And I guess George is the only
person that would know.
George knows about the plant and he knows about mostly outdoor growing because it was greenhouse
background. But as far as technology and stuff, anything electronic or electrical,
he knows really nothing about. He has nothing to contribute to the lighting industry.
Now, I understand that it's more economical to grow outdoors. The problem is you get rain
damage, it kind of washes off the crystals and the rain does, and it can cause mold.
So what you really want is a greenhouse. But it's hard to control the environment in a greenhouse
and controlling temperature and humidity because you've got to vent. It's too expensive to air
conditioning it, so they have to vent. So basically, you have an outdoor environment
except there's no rain. So you don't have the same quality in a greenhouse unless you really
tightly control it. There's ways of controlling it. You had to build an earth-tolerant greenhouse
with underground channels for natural air conditioning. If the ground, because it's
six feet underground, it's always 55 Fahrenheit between the polar circles, right? It's near a
volcano or something. So you get natural cooling. So all you do is vent in the chamber underneath
the ground and you'll have a natural cooling. And then you always do is use compost to generate
CO2. So you get your CO2. You grow chickens there because the chicken poop will compost the
grass clippings and that'll generate, the compost generates, plus the conditions themselves generate
CO2. So you have a self-contained environment. It's kind of expensive to set up, but most people
don't have the knowledge or patience or money for it. They just set up these surface greenhouses
where it's mostly inefficient. It's kind of a joke really, but they're cheap, they're easy to do.
But you don't have the same quality in a greenhouse. But see, if you're in a northern
landscape where it gets really cold in the wintertime, like in the upper Midwest particularly,
you need some, you might as well, you got to buy LEDs. Most of the LEDs, you got to keep them,
the less intensity, you got to keep them, you can't keep, you have to get them a little closer.
Plus the main problem is the box for natural light because your fixtures are too big,
you know, per watt. So if you go higher wires light and have a small reflector on like we do,
or the small balancer of course, like we do, then, and you want the exposed transformer,
you could expose the ballast for better heat dissipation. And you want to have our hood,
which we have, we have the best hood on the market. The best HID hood of all time. But the
only thing is, time has kind of passed me by because it's not EOL listed. None of the big
growers are going to buy it for that reason. We're still trying to get EOL listed, but I'm having,
I'm getting kind of squeezed out because the, what's happening is these lockdowns are
disrupting the supply chain. And because the relations with China are deteriorating,
the Chinese suppliers are retaliating against American companies. So the supply is constricted,
but at the same time, the demand has increased because of all the stimulus on money. So every
$10,000 that US goes into debt, from the stimulus, maybe the average guy gets maybe
5, 10% of that. The rest of it goes to major corporations and porks.
And so it's a huge scam. The biggest scam, it's a huge transfer of wealth. I call it the coup of
the billionaires. It's a way to crush main street. And now, so the virus is so clever and knows to
avoid Walmart. There's no virus in the Walmart, but there is a virus at your small store that
sells the same items. But the problem is the food is essential, right? But Walmart sells other things
that are not considered essential, but they don't close that part down. So by principle,
have a Korean supplies, if they can sell, but if we go a standalone, sell a Korean supplies only,
you consider non-essential. So all the small aquarium shops are crushed. So now everything's
either mail order or to go to Walmart for aquarium. That's just one example. Or you get
one example, toys, all those toys, specialty stores, et cetera, because that's not essential,
but they still have store toys at Walmart, which is considered essential because they also sell
food. So it's the billionaire's coup. It's the way to crush small businesses. And which just
happens to be the basis for pro-libertarian and Republicans is small businesses. So how convenient,
right? So now- That's news to me.
On a- That's fairly obvious. I mean,
it's all been suppressed and this whole thing. And the other thing is Trump has lost 30% of his
equity over these lockdowns. Why? Because he has a lot of money invested in real estate.
So a lot of that's been locked down. The hotels businesses are down, the restaurant businesses
are down. He owns a lot of real estate and it has hotels and restaurants, right? Including the big
Trump Tower in Las Vegas. Hemorrhaging money hand over fist. Plus he gets boycotted because half the
population hates his guts. So then they boycott him, place reservations and then don't show up.
So he's lost 37% of his equity since being elected. It's a bloodbath for him. While
the other billionaires, they've doubled their wealth. Bill Gates-
He made $1.3 billion as president, Trump. He didn't hemorrhage anything. He made $1.3 billion,
literally. He didn't hemorrhage anything. Not net. No, net, he's lost 37% of his equity.
I mean, he's made money, sure. He's made profit. His personal wealth,
he is skyrocketing. Now, the businesses can take a lot.
Well, he makes money from his businesses. Now, for tax reasons, he's segregated to the
corporate, things like that. But he gets money from, he doesn't know the corporation as a hobby.
He makes money from it. So his equity base is lost. He's lost 30% of his equity base.
Now, as far as his personal wealth, he gets to be on a certain level. It's only so much he can
spend as a personal person, right? So it doesn't really affect his lifestyle that much. But
he as well does not sort anything a lot, even if it might've been increased. I don't think it has,
but even if it has, nearly to the extent of Jeff Bezos or Bill Gates and things like that.
Oh, no. That's a different Jeff Bezos. No one-
I think Bill Gates is pushing this vaccine. This mRNA vaccine has not been in full test. They don't
really know what it's going to do. And the problem is they don't know how long it's going to last.
They think it's too short to just test for life. Well, that means it's supposed to keep on
producing, right? And we'll produce this spike protein, which mimics the virus, to create these
antibiotics and stuff. The virus mutates so that you need a different vaccine every year or two,
right? But they keep on producing. So that what happens is you get maybe,
over time, you might have a dozen different types of spike proteins,
you can continue to produce, most of them are obsolete. And you could get an overdose and
they cytokinase. And so they don't know the effects of it. There's all kinds of unhanded
side effects. And then we'll be back. People have died from it already. I remember in the 70s,
the big panic ball, the swine flu or something, you know, oh my God, the swine flu. The board
said, we got to be vaccinated. Well, more people died of the vaccination than they died of the flu.
One of the reasons is, say, when you vaccinate 100% of the population or close to 100%,
you have a more bigger patient base, a much larger number of people. So even though the
vaccine, as a percentage basis, I'd say that those exposed to the vaccine might have
better results than those exposed to the virus. But if you have fewer people exposed to the virus,
and everybody, almost everybody is exposed to the vaccine, the total number of people
with getting the vaccination, even at a lower harm rate, even if it is a lower harm rate,
which we don't know yet if it is, but even if it were a lower harm rate, the number of people is
vastly higher. So your total amount of harm is greater. And the other thing is, on these vaccines,
all they're measuring is death rates, right? You can get sick from it. Same thing with the COVID.
And the other thing is, look at total death. Total deaths are not significantly up,
not anywhere close to half a billion, like 25,000 or something like that.
Excess deaths have not risen significantly, total deaths have not risen significantly.
They have not. And as a financialist, if a guy dies while he has COVID, they call it a COVID
death. But there are COVID mortality. So yeah, maybe the COVID is life by maybe a few months,
but he would have died a few weeks or a few months later anyway. Because other problems,
they need health problems, right? So then they get incentivized financially to reporting the
death as COVID related. So the number of COVID deaths are vastly inflated. It's like...
To what end do you think?
Because it's a telegraph.
I mean, just to...
You don't want people to panic so that they tolerate the lockdowns,
other restrictions, or liberties. Now, if you want to fly by airplane,
most airlines now, you have to get a vaccination in order to travel.
So few people have even gotten a second shot.
Well, you're supposed to get two shots. You got a new one that takes one shot. But most of them
are taking a two shot thing. And you don't get the vaccine card until you take the both shots.
And as you need that in order to...
People would shut down the whole airline system, and they're bailing them out anyways.
Yeah. And after 9-11, the junior should never have bailed out the airlines. He should have said,
You guys let these terrorists on your airplanes. And now you have to suffer for it and go bankrupt.
The airlines are not going to go away. The airline clients don't go away.
They have new orders. And the new orders...
If the airlines have been bankrupt after 9-11, wonderful. The new orders were more confident,
who were able to prevent the hijacking with their own security methods. They
secure the cockpit. The two things for airlines, they secure the cockpit, retroface so they can't
break into the cockpit. Even if they take all the passenger area, all you have to do is put out a
gas and everybody gets knocked out. And then there they need is anti-missile defense.
El Al has it. That's the only major airline that has this anti-aircraft thing besides
the airport of Florida. So if the new orders are taken over, they wouldn't have the debt load of
the airlines. They could have gone there with fresh capital. All they'll take, they'll retrofit
the airlines, make them completely save $10 million per airplane, which is a penis.
But the junior didn't want to do that. He wanted to subsidize the current managers.
So he has an idea of capitalism and he's going to subsidize the current managers.
So he has an idea of capitalism is whoever who is currently the owners, the current managers,
they're his buddies. And he used government power to enrich those people.
The committee had a bad president. And Bush is the one who started this TARP thing.
And Obama came in and then when things got overstimulated, they had the meltdown in 2008.
Obama said, instead of letting the market clear things, local day things,
he just re-inflated the bubble. And we've been in a bubble ever since. Ever since
Bush Jr. started this whole process and Obama ramped it up. And then Trump continued to look
at it. And then Biden, it's just quadruple, he's vastly exceeding it. I think Trump exceeded it too.
They're all, all of them, even Trump.
Yeah. Trump is fractionally better. He's better than Biden, but he's still, I mean, he came,
he could have pardoned, like an Assange. You know what happened was, but Kyle Goldson said,
you pardoned Assange, we're going to crucify you. We're going to make sure you have legal problems.
So we came. I don't blame him. I had to do the same similar thing, except that I didn't,
you know, I didn't actually resolve anybody going to prison. Right. So he kept Assange in prison
because of his own personal safety. And I can't judge him too harshly. What can I say? He came.
But he could have pardoned, well, I would have, I would have commuted to Snowden,
that wouldn't serve me in prison. Because the guy wants to come back to the United States.
He's an American. Yeah. And he'd come back. He doesn't come back. He would be a treasure trove
of intelligence, you know, would have benefitted enormously. I would have had, I would, now I
pardon Snowden, I would have rehired him to the United States without a security clearance,
but rehire him. Yeah. Tells how do we make this thing hacker proof and tell us what you learned
in Russia. The deep state is completely stupid, the brain dead. And Trump caved into it. See,
when Trump took over, he thought he could just, oh, this is like taking over a company. You buy
a company and you run, right? And people are supposed to obey you. What we didn't take into
consideration is that the deep state would resist him. And everybody close to him, they persecuted
criminally. But the right things that were totally unrelated to Russia, completely,
they were processed crimes. Catch you in a lie. If they don't like what you have to say,
somebody else did something different. Oh, you're lying. Then they charge you with perjury. Process
crime. General Flynn, one of the best intelligence guys we got, who had some smart ideas. We had to
go. And everybody close to him was picked off one after the other. So what he has to do, he has to
resort to hiring the RINOs and caving into Mitch McConnell. So I think Trump was flawed. He did
some good things, but I think he's too compromised at this point. I think somebody needs to take over
the mantle. And we need to purge all the RINOs, starting with Mitch McConnell. And everybody
voted for impeachment. All need to be purged. And then we'll have a merged Libertarian Party,
as they are saying, take over. Trump supporters take over the LP and the GOP,
and then merge them together. And then they don't have any kind of a chance of being a Democrat.
Because the LP traditionally gets a steady 2% of the votes. And we need that 2%.
You never understood Republicans who are who are weed people, personally, like the strict
conservatives that are weed people, because it just seems to be two opposite competing ideologies.
Well, I think it's conservative, it's not a political ideology. It's a psychological mindset
having to do with levels of disgust. And tribalism. Yeah. And so you can be translate those
those psychological mindsets into politics, but you don't have to. You can be a conservative,
psychologically. Oh, I reject sex, sex, sex, sex, sex, sex, sex, sex, sex, sex, sex, sex, sex, sex,
I reject any drugs or alcohol. Yeah, I reject all that stuff. I reject homosexuality, all that stuff,
you know, reject it all but not implement politically. The two things are separate,
right? They get confused. And so they are instituted politically, all of those views by
the well, not all not some people are Christian libertarians and stuff. Sure. But they were
libertarians. This is a free welfare. So not everybody wants to implement politically.
The big problem I have with two problems I have with Reagan, first, I'd be it was pro religion.
So he saw no problem with subsidizing the Bujahideen in Afghanistan. Well, sure,
they were anti Soviet. They were also anti US also anti West. So he didn't see religion as a threat.
He followed everything to the Pakistan's ISI intelligence agency, make sure that most radical
fundamentals got got the most of the money and General Masood was the most secular he got the
leftovers. And he was their best general. Anyway, there are problems with Reagan is he listened to
Nancy too much. They thought this drug war was was okay. But the drug war didn't really get ramped
up until Bush senior and Bush senior, he never should have had Bush senior as his VP. It was a
compromise. It's a nigga Trump. You got a guy regular Trump going on about some good ideas.
They get into power. And then they make these compromises with the RIDOS.
The Bush family is got to be the one of the worst crime families ever in existence.
And the Koreans aren't much. Actually, I kind of like Bill Clinton. I think he's
Bill Clinton was probably a better president Bush junior. But I don't like I don't accept
Hillary. In fact, by the drop of the personal credentials, the clinic, they were just
everybody. He would pay him back when he was a businessman. He was paying off the
politicians to get all the currents approved. They were right. He's playing together.
Fucking yeah. Yeah. Well, the thing is, he never. Okay. Trump was personal friends.
Absolutely. But never actually went to the low of Lita Island where Bill Clinton did.
Yeah. Well, there's no polite law showing Trump going to the Lita Island. Yeah.
Why don't what? Believe me, they got to delay Maxwell. If he had any such logs,
all that will be her ticket to call land. All he had to do was say, here's a polite log.
So Trump was there. He'll be instantly given around guaranteed that a Trump
they say prosperous after her after Trump also. Believe me, they would have if Trump invented
Ion, he would have gotten there. But Trump was a ladies man, but he liked him to be
18 or over. Now, he was willing to tolerate Epstein when he thought it was just maybe teenagers
and maybe 17 or something. Agents can send very state by state. It's not really a deal breaker,
but they're personal friends. But when he figured out what he was trying to do to the younger set,
that he cut out the relationship. But I know Bill is more into it, but I'm still
kind of like Bill Clinton, but I don't like Hillary. Yeah. So anyway, so I think what's
going to have to happen is that we're going to have to have a collapse of the system,
which is what we're heading for now. We're heading for hyperinflation, which is already starting.
Then we're going to have an economic collapse because we don't make anything anymore. We're
a lawyer based economy. We don't manufacture stuff here anymore. Anybody. And so especially
the lighting industry, hardly anything is made in the United States. I'm one of the few manufacturers
left in the United States that makes anything. Wow. So so what I know is that people have this
and people tell me all these ideas they have and because they're not exposed. See,
Facebook will censor everything they don't agree with. Right. They get really exposed to that
stuff. Right. Yeah. So I get these news feeds and stuff and other sources and two main sources,
but other sources. So I get exposed to these ideas. Let's open it out. Not QAnon. There's
two QAnon. And I have read any of either one. They have no credibility. I don't. But that's
the strongman that they're painting. Oh, you're a QAnon fanatic. I'm not QAnon. I have nothing to
do with QAnon. No, no, no. Nothing about him. There's two of them. By legalistic analysis,
trying to base two of them. So everybody who has a different view on the virus origin
or the lockdowns and alternative bands like ivermectin, you know, I mean,
you might have to how much trouble I had getting ivermectin. It was like one day,
but I canceled the appointment because he said I wouldn't get me ivermectin. Yeah. I went ahead
and tell him, oh, I have a parasitic problem also because I used to eat pork. Yeah. So then
the guy I finally got some ivermectin. Very effective against the COVID. It's been tested
for decades. Used widely in the malaria infested areas like Africa. Why? It's highly safe.
And so if I get it, I'll take I take hydrogen peroxide with water, one teaspoon per glass of
water with my morning tea every morning on an empty stomach. Yeah. I tell you, it's very effective.
You need a key list, low dosage. Generally, I buy dosage that can irritate the stomach lining.
And you also want to take beneficial bacteria to replenish the bacteria after peroxide
sterilizes it. This proportionally goes after the bad bacteria. You want to have 80 percent good
bacteria, 20 percent bad, at least. These are system. So peroxide goes after mainly the harmful
bacteria. It does kill some of the beneficials, but you replenish those. So you can prevent the
COVID infection if you take peroxide every day. If you get infected, then it will increase the
dosage or take ozone injections. And it's a big idea. So they put up your oxygen. It's been
ozonated and guaranteed it will work. Back in the 80s, when there was an AIDS epidemic,
I was in Seattle, members of Vitamins, a virus club, and we provide vitamins. And when we get
the ozone machine, we do the chair. Right. So I got gonorrhea once and they gave me a machine
and broke it down at the time. So I got a hydrogen peroxide injection, which is not as good as ozone
injection because it's a little harsh. So I got the old hydrogen peroxide and injection, close up my leg.
It's my shaft. I could I could time it in a matter of minutes, hit my shaft. I could feel it
vibrating inside my shaft with a gonorrhea. I was concentrated. Jesus Christ. And then I had
got the old machine working later and I had they took the ozone machine and did an insufflation of
the ozone gas into my butt. And I tell you, I was flying. That an AIDS insufflation of ozone.
I was like 30 years younger. I was energetic. Oh, man, I was so it's not like a drug where
you're altered consciousness. You're so yeah, I just normal consciousness. But it just I got
like a youthful. It's like energetic, youthful. It was just amazing. I was scrubbed completely clean.
And I had to call media, I think, for my ex-girlfriend called me up after we broke up
and say, oh, but of course, that's why you couldn't have any kids. Yeah. So then I didn't
really brag because I knew what you have to take. I had to take the ozone anyway or the peroxide
anyway, because I've been I got the gonorrhea. Oh, so after she left me, I had to go with
call girl and then I got the gonorrhea. So anyway, she's all bitter against me now
because Paul Stanford and her he communicated to her and they got they organized a
condom media about my so-called cooperation. I was able to keep it off the television because I
got a tip off in advance. They were to come. They had people demonstrating at my store.
So I had one of my customers come in to take norm and they said, well, shit, this guy's going to buy
anyway. You know, my loyal customers stuck with me, knew I was not cooperating, really.
You know, yeah. And it's just people will know what we're close with. They've stopped coming.
And then so then I was I told the media I bet I'm on my cat, take five on a cat on
Queen Anne Hill. I told them, yeah, I got it tipped off. I knew it was coming. And we've
got all arranged to minimize the damage. But that really killed off 80 percent of my customers. So
I've been cutting back expenses every 10. I've laid it off. So I just have one employee. Now,
now I'm just running by myself. If I have to hire somebody, I hire them. I do some work,
accounting work or something like that, a hiring account or something. But I do all the work. And
I do all wholesale. Why not that many customers? I can arrange it myself. But yeah, I'd be a
figure of like, here I am, you know, a major innovator in the 80s. And now things have
accelerated. I think the LED is the wave of the future, but it's not necessarily the best
solution in a greenhouse. Or if you're a basement grower, the efficiency isn't that critical because
you what you do is you use if you have a central heating, you use the ducting of it. So you have
a ducting thing. So what you do is you exhaust your grow room through your your central heating
system. You have the fan on without the heater on, right? The fan blows the heated air throughout
the rest of the house. And then you interrupt them and it comes back to the cold air intake,
remove some of the ducting. So your cold air comes into the grow room. And then you've
bent the grow room up to the rest of the house. So it's a way of recycling the heat produced by
your light to heat your house. So you get a double use of electricity. So the efficiency of the light
isn't that critical. It's still nice to be efficient, but it's not really that important.
If you can buy it cheaper, it has a nice smooth continuous full spectrum, you know, and it's
cheaper to get. It's a ceramic metal halide. Plus, with the LEDs, it's such a complex technological
thing that most people don't know what's the good quality. They don't know what to look for.
And so I say for the average person, is that really qualified to chop around for LEDs because
they're clueless. And so there are some good LEDs out there. If you're going totally indoors in
commercial operation, yeah, you definitely want to go on LEDs. But if you're a home hobbyist,
or if you're in a greenhouse in a cold winter, then yeah, you might want to go with ceramic metal
halide, particularly if you're on a budget. And I do basically scrape up these at 630s.
I really do. But it's 315 arc tubes all in one and you do want separate, you don't want them
together in one bulb, you want two separate bulbs because you get better angles that way.
But separation of the point sources, you have crossover lighting and you get multiple angles
and fewer shadows. You don't want to make it like an HID, you want to make it more like
ceramic more like an LED by having smaller wires and spreading them around.
And 350 is kind of like the sweet spot, because it gets smaller, you lose efficiencies, you get
bigger, you get less efficient. They do have 500 watt arc tubes now, they can go 1000 watt on.
They even had 1000 watt arc tube for a while, I think it's still there. But you don't want 1000
watt because it's concentrated light in one point. And you don't have the dispersion, you don't have
the multiple angles of light, you get too much intensity, the inverse square law, basically,
for 1000 watt you got it, you'll just have a bunch of rubble like I would be doing in the 80s. And
it's too expensive to build. And it's just too cumbersome. It's just better to go with smaller
wires and you have multiple points of light, multiple angles and fewer shadows. So that's the
way to go. So as far as the practical stuff, I'm willing to talk to people and explain to them
what I know, because it's tailored to their situation. Even if they don't buy from me,
I just enjoy talking about it. I can be very helpful. On the broad issues, not like
if you're trying to design an LED, I would say we're just talking about multi he can tell exactly
what spectrum they want, what tips are the best, which strips are the best and stuff like that, but
what spectrum we want for UV and stuff, but I will I wrote the first article for high times
on UBB self amplification propensity and has the very first, I think I might publish a person
tips. But the other thing is I wrote the article on Sea of Green,
does that won't be invented that I wrote the article for Sea of Green. Well, what happened was
George advantage got wind from his friends at high times that I'll become publisher article on
some of the same issue. He got with the same article on Sea of Green without giving me
attributions for it. Yeah, he just stole my idea, plotted off of his own idea. Now, that's true. I
did not tell people that that won't be giving the idea, but I won't be used by name for the sky.
So I think I'm I think I get my own YouTube channel. I'll be the fireman disguised as
what we thought doing it anymore. And I still have a couple of those back issue books to on that.
Well, you know, I got to go take out my dogs right now, but I have I'm going to send you over first.
What we talked about was that anarchist cookbook documentary. I'm going to send you over the video
on that guy. And I'm probably going to have a thousand more questions. So is it OK if I email
you? Yeah, you can call me any time. I love talking about this. The documentary did I mention my book
review with that? The documentary mentioned that my book review of the book. I'm not sure. I'm not
sure. I can't remember. I haven't watched it a few years. It's a few years old.
Yeah, I'm kind of like a Z-leg of history. I show up in the background of all these historical
events. But I'm not. In some cases, I get some publicity in certain circles, you know. But I
don't really. It's not like I'm not number one. You know, your name's memorable in our community.
That's for sure. Yeah, I think what really is upsetting to me is that Paul, now that he knows
the facts, he's even had me on a show a couple of times in the studio, the television program.
He still has not revised the article. All you have to do is just go to the future and tell him that
you want I want my revised article updated and delete any insinuation that I was getting people
busted. I was never dead. I believe me if it had been busted or dissolved by so-called
for reformation, high times would have been over me like flies on shit. Oh, I'm sure it never
happened because I didn't know any. I didn't have the Fourth Amendment information. I didn't have.
I was not a witness to any of this stuff. And the ones that I did know about it wasn't there
to say anything about. Yeah, for sure. So it's been a pleasure, man. Absolute pleasure.
Uh, want more Breeder Syndicate? Be sure to check out our Patreon by going to Google and searching
Breeder Syndicate Patreon. We have a secret Discord where we are available at most times
and interact daily. There are a lot of perks to be had there, so check it out. Need seeds? Check
out RiotSeeds.com where you can get our seeds and our reversal spray for making your own feminized
seeds.
