What's up everyone? I started a little early just to let the crowd build up before old
SonatDawg gets here. How y'all doing? What the fuck is up? I was just looking at this
old Hemp BC catalog and thinking how nice would it be to have some of that NL5 Purple
Indica. I think that would be really cool. And I think we might have just made some.
But I would be interested to see what the BC Purple Indica is like. How much different
it is. And like this NL5 Hawaiian Indica. Now this is the BCC Co. stuff which is probably
5x2. Not just 5. But we don't know for sure. Either way, very cool. But I'll. Anyway, so
yeah I was just shooting the shit, trying to build shit up before dude gets here. But
yeah. So what's a haps ladies and gents. Today we are going to talk about, I actually have
it written down. I wrote things down this time. Tried to be more organized for y'all.
Because I'm not usually. So this is going to be, it's going to start off as the BroScience
episode which is essentially like different things you hear in cannabis that you're pretty
sure are real. But they just turn out to be old wives tales. No offense to any old wives
hanging around. But yeah. So we thought that would be cool when someone gave us that idea.
And I think that's what's up. From the Hawaiian Lights stuff, probably the dog shit Hawaiian
Lights. Just because of all the unique possibilities that come from it. I think that's probably
going to be the one in the bomb threat of course. Because bomb threat's the shit. Here
we go. Here's the So Not Dog.
Darby lapping up a pool of water. All loud as fuck.
Evening.
Yo, yo, yo.
Yo, yo, yo.
What are you doing?
Hiding from the heat.
Yeah, me too, dude. I have a fan on right now. Is the audio weird at all?
No.
Okay, good.
I don't think so.
Oh, yeah. Does it smell good?
Yeah.
Sorry, Brynn just brought her some stuff from Trader Joe's. Someone said strawberry lemon
scrub. I wish I had a sense of smell.
That's good.
Yeah. So what's up? I wrote down a bunch of stuff today to go over and I don't know if
you had a chance to write anything down or do you have anything you want to just start
off the jump with?
We could start off the jump. I mean, so we thought we would talk for a bit about bro
science versus real science.
Hold on, let's start off actually. Let's do a quick, I don't know what you'd call it. Just
say, this is, you know, this is what we know as best as we know it right now. I am often
wrong, constantly wrong. And, you know, shit updates all the time. So this is as best as
we know it right now, as we are trying to bring it to you. But if you find something
different and have a strong opinion on it, let us know. We're always open to new suggestions
and ideas. So yeah.
It is because there's a, yeah, I mean, that could go for almost any show when we talk
about history or this or that or whatever. We're trying to give you like a version that
we hope is pretty accurate, you know, and so on and so forth. But there's areas where
you can misspeak, you know, or just areas where that later on you get a detail comes
on that changes your perspective on something too.
Sure.
So for a long time, yeah, actually, our buddy just said we should maybe even talk about
that, like flush versus no flush. Yeah, that's actually a really good one. But the whole
idea is more of like now that cannabis is becoming legal and medical and all this
different stuff, there's an aspect where actual science is getting used on it. Yeah.
Where for a long time, the science that was getting used on it was actually pretty
limited. And so we were left with a lot of observational stuff. Yeah. And, you know,
with like breeding and stuff like that, and Punnett squares, all that, like, like taking
other knowledge from other forms of plant breeding and work and trying to apply it to
weed. Yeah. You know, and it's only really been probably the last 10 years, I would say.
Five years.
Sorry, someone asked me to bleep.
You know, five, maybe 10 years that it's opened up enough that, like more science is
being done on things. Yeah. And not only that, not only more science is being done, but
like more reputable scientists in their field are willing to get involved. Yeah. And give
their opinions on stuff, you know. And so like, kind of like a theme of like, what we
knew then versus what we know now. Yes. You know, and because a lot of this information
in, you know, history and otherwise, the science part is no different. A lot of it is oral.
Yes.
It's like it's passed down from older stoners to you. Yeah. You know, you hear about it
through people you respect and all this different types of stuff. And so, you know,
there's that's kind of how information was disseminated.
Yes.
Amongst groups.
Yep. Forums and little BBSs back in the day.
Yeah. Or little friend circles.
Oh, yeah. Little friend circles at the grocery store.
Little friend circles, little this and that. The few books or few stuff. Or most people
would just read stuff from other disciplines.
Yeah.
Right. And try to apply it to weed as best they could.
Adapt. Yeah.
And so people like even in the sense of like the even in the sense of like medical
information, Matt and I were talking about this, where it's like for a long time, it
was you know, it still is. It was a schedule one drug. And so you needed the DEA's
permission to even study it because you couldn't possess it legally without their say
so. Right. Yeah. So for like 40 years, they would do this thing where they would only
approve studies looking for cannabis harm.
Yeah. So if you said your study was I want to look and see if it shrinks Matt's balls
and gives him anxiety and shortens his lifespan, they'd be like, here's some weed.
Go test it. Yeah. And they'd find out it absolutely does.
So we're going to do what you wanted to say.
Yeah. I want to see if it lowers not so dogs freaking, you know, blood pressure and
like, you know, increases his appetite and lowers his stress level.
Loses estrogen.
Yeah. Whatever the case may be, they would deny.
Yeah. What happened is, is that they ended up you got like 40, you got 40 years plus of
science looking for cannabis harms.
Yeah. Because they wanted data points that could prove their case and make keeping it
illegal and keeping it the way that it was to have like scientific backing.
Yeah. Right. Propaganda.
Yeah. So as a result of that, we have a lot of knowledge and we have a lot of extensive
studies on what the worst stuff that cannabis does, because that's all they were looking
for. But we have relatively little shit on what it's good for.
Yeah. And, you know, and even stuff like, you know, we're going to have a upcoming
episode where it's all about aromas and scents and terpenes and all this different
stuff. But even just the terpene itself aspect.
Yeah. Right.
And like and the names behind those things, rather than people just describing aromas.
Yeah. 20 years ago, people weren't talking terps.
Yeah. I still suck at that part myself.
Right. Or even like knowing what the terps are, knowing how they combine.
Yeah. You know, I mean, like you take art.
There's only so many primary colors.
Yeah. But you start blending those primary colors and you can get all these different
shades. Right. 16 million, something like that.
Yeah. And, you know, to some degree, scents are like that, too.
You start blending terpenes and theols and all these other things that I'll mispronounce.
Yeah. But, you know, like when we were getting into cannabis, none of that stuff was
being studied on any kind of accessible level.
No. It just didn't exist.
No. Like the closest I saw, like when I was getting in was DJ's, like olfactory.
But that was cool.
But that was more like a wine.
Yeah. Like a training your nose to other things you might recognize as a scent.
Yeah. That wasn't so much science.
Like so a lot of a lot of bro science ends up just being like observational shit that may
or may not be right. Yeah.
Yeah. You know, like I joked with Matt on an earlier podcast or whatever that, you know,
back in the day, like we used to put our favorite Noga Mexican in the resin chamber.
It's a fucking resin chambers and you'd smoke and you'd smoke that last because the
the you know, the science was you're going to coat that bud and all that unburned THC and
resin. All that fucking resin.
Yeah. And then the last nug you smoke of your bag is the best one because it's coated and
all that extra free goo that's going to get you high.
Yeah. What's in the binners is if you scrape, scrape the resin chamber first and then coat
that on the outside of the bud to that really helps.
But that was I mean, that was like that was accepted science knowledge in my crew.
Oh, yeah, for sure. For sure.
It was super common.
Common in the 80s and 90s or whatever.
Right. And you so you take your best bud and you ruin it.
Yeah. Right.
And then you like sit there and smoke it and burn all funny because it had all this like
wet. Yeah.
You know, metal pipe goo.
But that was accepted. That was that was the accepted thing to do.
You read that was the resin.
They put that there so you could fit a bud in and resonate the bud.
Yeah. That's funny, dude, because we didn't have any science to tell us otherwise.
Yeah. No, it's stonk.
We knew that much.
That's done. We knew that much, you know, but that that was accepted.
You know, there used to be a thing which is funny now, because when you dig into history,
a most fire is Herm.
But I mean, it used to be accepted bro science, right, that, you know, seeds from
hermaphrodites were shittier.
Yeah, that's that's bad.
That's and that like you don't if you use that like you could fuck up the line.
You wanted like straight male female mating.
Yeah, that was the way to go.
And if you you know, if you, you know, popped hermy seeds, the chances that it would be
hermy and you'd never be able to get it out.
So a lot of people were scared of of beans and buds.
Yeah. And they also the conclusion was that Herm's had low THC every time, too.
You know? Yeah.
And then the big one, the cush and the sour diesel and like a million phenomenal fire
weed is all like hermy bag seed.
Yeah. You know, but like we didn't understand breeding enough.
The science of breeding, you know, we thought that like if you did a male female, you
probably wouldn't get the Herm gene.
Yeah. But if you hermed, you know, not that if the plant hermed, it obviously had the
gene. Yeah.
Because it hermed. Yeah, because it hermed.
Because it hermed, you know, it's like that's what it did.
It already had the gene in it or it wouldn't have done it.
Yeah. That's a special gene that isn't in most cannabis.
You kind of bred it out. The hermed gene.
So we had to so we had to.
Protopipes are actually made in one town north of me in Willits.
They're still made there. A little shop, you know, the protopipe, strangely enough.
Protopipe.
That was a classic early head shop metal pipe.
Yeah. You know, it had the lid that went on the top and it had the scraper and it had
the little resin chamber.
It had the whole thing, you know?
Yeah. And and so, you know, so a lot of this stuff is like you start smoking and you
start learning the legends and the shit like that around your little circle.
And then you start reading some books, you know, and that's kind of where like bro
science comes from. Bro science is like people observing stuff.
And then saying it's true and then other people around you agree and then it sort of
gains weight. Yeah.
Because like a bunch of people are saying it and then you're telling some, you know,
some younger person than you about it and they just buy it hook, line and sinker.
Oh, yeah. Yeah.
So, yeah, I mean, now, obviously, like with, you know, with feminized breeding and stuff
like that, like that, the whole science of, you know, or even like even here's another
bro science thing like Matt and I were chatting about, which is, you know, pale seeds
are bad. Yes.
And the best, healthiest, most mature seeds are all dark and have tiger stripes.
Yes. Yeah.
And there is some truth to like fully tiger stripes seeds are mature for the most part
and pale seeds can be immature.
Yes. But as any breeder will tell you that that tiger stripe is a skin.
Yeah. It's a thin little layer, like an onion skin almost on the seed.
And so if you blow your seeds like we all do, you know, like we actually put it through a
blower and it and it blows the husks off and whatnot.
It's very easy for it to get knocked around and knock the tiger stripe off.
So, yeah. And there's also the fact that, you know, like they're they're little tiny
African land-raised seeds that are like yay big that are totally black or totally gray.
You know, it just really depends on the region, the type, the type of pollen, the
maturity of the pollen hitting the plant, what part of the plant was making the seed.
All sorts of stuff goes into that.
So but in the back in the day, it was pale seeds bad.
Yeah. Yeah. And it's still and it still persists.
I mean, I was having a talk this week with our our homie Caleb and he was saying that
like, you know, a lot a lot of seed he throws into the not good pile.
Yeah. But it would have pretty damn high germination rates.
Yeah. Most of the stuff that like if anything's even remotely great, even if I know
that's like genetic on it and it's just what it is, I won't sell it because I know that
it's just going to cause problems.
People don't. Yeah. And he'll say, you know, he'll start out with a bunch of dark
tiger stripe seeds and you put them through the blower and you put them in some bags and
you handle them and all that.
And then at the end, there's one or two that have it.
And the rest of the pack is is doesn't have it.
Yeah. So, you know, but that was like straight science, like if you got all white
seeds was a sign of immaturity.
What's one of the most extreme ones you think you've heard when it comes to bro
science? I mean, I think I started with it with the with the put resonate your buds,
but that's a good one.
Yeah. That one in the in the hermaphrodism, contaminating everything forever more and
ruining your weed. I had a good one.
And this was early on when I lived in Isla Vista.
I had a dude come up to me at a party and tell me that he shocks his plants with
batteries to turn them purple.
I think at some point somebody told him that they shock their plant, meaning shock it
with cold or extreme temperatures.
And he took that to mean, oh, I put my car battery, hook that shit up, fucking jump
that shit and turns it purple.
So that was one of my favorites that you shock your plants with electricity to turn
them purple. There was there was always some.
And the issue is, is that, you know, when it like because when bro science ended, it
wasn't like it was amazing either, because when actual science started getting into
play before, when all we had was observational traits, almost all breeding was all
selection was done based on observable characteristics.
Yeah. Because that's all you had.
Yeah. How did it grow?
How did it look? What the leaves look like?
What the resin content did?
How did it burn? What it tastes like.
And then once you started getting all this data, people started trying to incorporate all
this data into breeding.
Yeah. And a lot of them fucked it up.
I like that someone brought up the Kool-Aid one.
That was another fave.
The what?
Feeding the plants Kool-Aid to turn them purple.
Oh, yeah. Yeah.
Or adding adding flavors to the roots.
Yeah. Yeah. And make some cherry that way.
Some Kool-Aid powder to the roots.
Yeah. I mean, now it is.
The one thing that is true is that if you do if you do, there's a plant that has a
propensity to turn purple.
You can shock it sometimes with cold.
Yeah. Yeah. That's a that's a common one.
That's a common one. And that one's actually true.
You know, it's got started mostly when you get some cold snap nights out here, outdoor
style. Yeah.
And you'd see some stuff that had been green all summer and all of a sudden it went
dark on you. Yeah.
All of a sudden it was fucking black.
And then you'll see you'll see some people like, you know, trying all that, like
pouring ice on top of their weed and door.
Yeah. Trying to get that color change because all of a sudden color is important for the
last few years again.
You know? Yeah.
Yeah. You know, sugar water to make it frosty.
I don't even I think most sugar water like the the the pores on the roots are too
small to even absorb it.
Yeah. It's mostly there to like feed the microbiome or whatever that's in your soil
mass more so than it is to like shoot up your plant, you know?
Yeah, exactly. But but yeah, I mean, it's like so all you had back in the day was
legends and people trading information.
And that's why so many of us like look look at like Rob Clark's book, like the Bible
for breeding. Yeah.
Because it was like, did he have competition?
Not really, I mean, later on, there are we breeding book.
Not necessarily, no.
Other than that one.
You know, during that era later on, I mean, Greg Green had his breeders Bible, but that
was much later.
That was way, way later.
Yeah, exactly. So not really.
No, I mean, he was like basically like the only person on the hill.
Yeah. So if you wanted to learn how to breed and how cannabis even worked, you know,
that was where you went.
Yeah. And we got very fortunate that he got so much of it right for so long.
For so long, we were very fortunate because it could have been anyone doing that and
getting it very wrong.
And it probably would have been passed as, you know, canon forever.
Someone just asked me if I have any advice on greenhouse.
That's like pretty general.
And yeah, I've grown in greenhouses for decades.
So, yes, but I don't know what.
But, you know, yeah, there was there, you know, there was all this stuff and there was
all this experimentation going on.
And it was like they were looking for harm in weed.
Yeah. And, you know, nobody knew.
I don't think when was the first time you even heard the word CBN or CBG or CBD?
It was pretty early on, but I think most people didn't know the difference between CBG
and CBN at the time, you know, you know, I mean, I like we we got some like, you know,
we used to call it pretend to go.
We got bunked a few times by what we thought was kind bud.
And it was gorgeous hemp.
Yeah. Gorgeous hemp.
Yeah. It was gorgeous.
Yeah. It looked like it looked like four hundred dollars an ounce weed.
Yeah. But the but the green Mexican got you higher.
Yeah. But I mean, I remember at that time, you know, in Chicago or whatever, I didn't
even I didn't even realize that hemp had those things.
Yeah. I didn't even know that hemp looked like weed back then.
Like I didn't even know that they looked they could be confused for each other at all.
Like we in SoCal, we had no experience with hemp except for when they would bring, you
know, this gorgeous looking fucking reddish, beautiful, frosty indica in and we're like
game and we're paying the same price as the max.
All right. Score.
And then it sucks.
Yeah. Pretend to go. I mean, we called it ditch weed in Illinois.
Yeah. Because it grew in ditches and it grew at the edges of fields and it grew while
there was a wild population from World War Two, you know, all through the Midwest,
basically. But yeah, I mean, you know, now it's like now now I know it was up, but then
we were so confused.
Yeah, it was how we could look that good.
And yeah. And like you'd smoke it and smoke.
You're taking bong hit after bong hit.
It feels a little funny and you're like, I don't feel high at all.
Yeah. You know, you smoke a joint of Mexican and you're like, oh, it worked.
Dude, those guys must have been making it killing selling that, you know, 60 an ounce.
Well, the thing about the thing about my area was is that there was brown Mexican and there
was green Mexican and anything better than that was kind bud that went for expensive.
Yeah. You know, I mean, like the quality only made the price go up, but it was like even
the shitty stuff was still won't go by Mexican.
Yeah. That's what always killed me.
Like ours, like it would have way less seeds, you know, it was it was really beautiful
looking, but it was always the same price as the Mexican.
It would always blow my mind that anyone was so dumb they'd sell this for the same price.
But then, you know, every single time I'd get fucking skunked on it.
You get skunked on it.
Yeah. And so there's there's an aspect to where it's like what's interesting is that so
and I don't know why this is necessarily, but it does seem like when with testing low
THC doesn't get you as high.
Yeah. But then it also seems like once there's enough THC, it doesn't seem to matter.
And then when there's too much THC, it seems to get in the way.
Yeah. Because most of our like famous elite strains, at least the ones that I personally
like to smoke a bunch.
Yeah. They seem to come in between 18 and 25 mostly.
Yeah. You know, it makes sense.
And all these like 30 plus or whatever.
And I don't even think like when THC testing started, there was almost no 30 plus.
Yeah. No, because there wasn't any there wasn't any testing selection that allowed people
to see higher numbers.
I'll select those.
Yeah. And obviously, without those numbers there, no one selected those.
They weren't as good. Yeah.
I mean, but how would you really tell a lot of the stuff that would get you the most high
would be the 14 percenters to 18 percenters?
Yeah. Or like, you know, a lot of the, you know, the sour diesel and the chems, a lot of
those things are like in the low to mid 20s.
Yeah. You know, really good chem dog can be as low as 17.
It can be 17 to 22 percent.
Yeah. You know, it knocks my head off.
Yeah. But it's it's not that high, you know, so you need a certain amount of it.
But like nobody had any idea what any THC percentage.
I mean, when was THC percentage even a thing?
Probably not until like 08 or 09, 2010.
To the SOB collectives are getting popular.
I remember even past that, it took a long time before collectives started posting THC
percentages on the regular.
Yeah. I mean, I think I was smoking for 20 plus years before there was any verified
ability to get weed tested for percentages that you could access.
Yeah. It just didn't exist.
Like weed was good because it smelled good and it worked good.
And you and you wanted it.
Yeah, I actually can remember pretty well when Mitch from the Adam Dunn show back when
he was one of the main hosts on that show, he brought on a bunch of the testing labs
that had just started popping up and we were just beginning to understand what a THC
standard was, why there was no consistency between two different labs, all that stuff.
And I remember he brought them on our labs, Michigan, SC Labs and a few others.
And they ended up all slowly hanging up on the fucking podcast and the calls because
the questions got too fucking complicated and they didn't want to answer that shit.
So, yeah, it was it was later.
It definitely was later.
Yeah. 2010, 2011, 2012.
It took a while.
So what that meant was that for a long time, almost all breeding selection was done
based on your ability to look.
Yeah.
How does it grow?
How does it yield?
What does it look like?
You know, what does it smell like?
What does it burn like?
What does it smoke like?
Yeah. And now I think part of the modern problem with science is you've got people that
like think that they can grow by numbers.
Yeah. And they're just looking at charts.
And they're looking for higher THC and they're looking for certain high terpenes and
they're looking for this and that.
And the selection of like I mean, this sounds really bro, but like the selection of like
six or seven friends smoking a bunch of joints and saying what they think.
Yeah.
Is often more effective than any kind of chart so far.
Yeah.
Because at the end of the day, it's all about whether or not humans like to consume it.
At the end of the day, robots don't smoke weed.
Fuck the man.
Yeah, well, it's like it's this weird thing, too, where like I'm not a musician, Matt is,
but there's an aspect in like musical reproduction where like some level of distortion
and some harmonics are better than others.
Yeah. Right.
Mm hmm.
Oh, did you freeze?
You froze up, froze up on a smile.
Maybe he's getting a phone call.
I don't know. Maybe I froze up.
Who knows? I guess we'll see.
Up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up.
But but but but not that not back yet.
Yeah, I also had, oh he left so he must have gotten a phone call or booted or something.
Anyways, I also had on here one of my favorites, all reversal sprays colloidal silver.
I get that nonstop, all the time, no matter how many times I post my spray, someone will
chime in and be like, colloidal silver, it's just fucking colloidal silver.
No one asks about it, it's an assumption, but yeah, that's one of them.
Also I remember aspirin for reversals was another favorite of mine, that people would
use aspirins for their reversals.
But I'm shocked, people don't actually say that anymore and mostly I just hear colloidal
silver and that's what does it all.
That's what does it all.
I'm back.
All right, where'd you go?
I don't know, all of a sudden you had this weird look on your face and I realized you
were frozen and then I was gone and it said basically, thanks for playing.
I got an ID message and I was gone.
So it didn't like me, it kicked me.
I was about to drop some secrets and the Illuminati stepped in and was like, no, we're going to
change the subject.
Fucking never going to work.
Never going to work.
Someone did talk about also in the comments that I thought was funny and a good one, was
hang your plants upside down so the THC flows to the top of the colas.
That is some bro science.
It is strangely enough, you definitely want to hang your plant upside down, but for different
reasons.
But yeah, there is some weird stuff that I don't know if it's true or not, where people
talk about harvesting in the nighttime, having certain amounts of dark cycles because they
want the resin to be in a certain state when they harvest.
Yeah.
You know, the only thing...
THC was supposedly, supposedly THC is strongest in the plant during the dark cycle.
That was the old claim.
I don't know if that's true or not, but I don't know.
I've seen some scientific stuff that says, yeah, actually, you know, harvesting in the
dark is when it is, you know, whatever.
That one I don't know the answer to.
There's a lot of this stuff that's going to get proven or disproven over time.
Yeah.
You know, and some of it, like, some of it, like how good is weed or like what does the
testing do for us?
We're going to have to interpret that how well we think it's working ourselves.
Yeah.
Because it's obviously like not just raw numbers when it's a consumable that produces an effect
on humans.
Yeah.
Like at the end of the day, that's what's important.
Yeah.
That's all we care about.
Right.
Is like how that that effect of once we consume it, however you're consuming it, you know,
and that you can't I don't know that we understand numbers that lead to specifics.
Yeah, I don't know.
Like we don't even know.
We don't know why.
What's interesting is you look at and that's one of the reasons why the THC numbers is
so bunk is because I think there's like a big like misunderstanding about THC percentage
and people view it like it's alcohol.
Yeah.
And people think that like stronger is better.
It's more potent.
Yeah.
But for me, it's more like, you know, since there's so many kinds of highs, like what's
the math?
What's the math?
What's the testing that shows you this is going to be a racy buzz?
Yeah.
It's going to make you want to crawl out of your skin.
Yeah.
This one's going to make you uncomfortable.
This one's going to make you alcohol kind of has the same effects all the way up, depending
on your tolerance.
Yeah.
But weed does wildly different shit.
Yeah.
To everyone, depending on time of the day where you're smoking type of strain, everything,
everything changes.
Well, yeah, people, someone just said, isn't science proof?
Science is proof.
But like what's not proof is that THC by itself detonates how strong a strain is.
Yeah.
This isn't a quantifiable science yet.
High experience is not quantifiable.
So technically right now, science can only take it so far.
I mean, it's a number and humans like numbers and they like playing with numbers and it's
the one that everybody recognizes.
Yeah.
But there's actually a pretty big movement to get away from THC numbers at all.
Yeah.
It would be nice, but I think that would take so long.
I mean, we're still we're still calling stuff like I mean, people are still saying, you
know, oh, all fucking sativas do this.
All hybrids do this.
All indicas do that.
You know, like we're still at that stage.
So it'll be a long time.
I'm going to remember this one because this dude just said flushing is a myth and that's
probably actually something cool to chat about.
But yeah, one of the things that we haven't talked about that was a super bro myth is
the is, you know, you can tell indica versus sativa versus broadleaf versus thinleaf.
Yes.
And when you see extreme broadleaf, that's how you know it's more indica.
And when you see thinleaves, that's how you know there's some sativa in there.
And that there's also a high associated with each.
If you see those big broadleafs, you know, it's going to make you go like, relax.
You see those thinleaves, you know, it's going to make you go, woo, be all excited.
Yeah.
And so that's super strong.
And the whole indica sativa thing is actually like, it's actually outdated now.
Because it was like, it was misclassified to begin with.
I just think it's so used currently.
I don't see us like changing it anytime soon.
No, unfortunately, not as much as people are going to push and try.
It's going to take a long time to pick up.
Because according to like raw science right now, what we would consider sativa, they would
call indica.
Yes.
From India.
Yeah.
And then what we call indica, they would call Afghanica.
From Afghanistan and Pakistan region, they would call it Afghanica, right?
And then what we would call, you know, like, and then what we would call ruderalis, they
call sativa.
I think you got that a little twisted up.
But I know what you're saying.
I don't think I have it twisted up.
I think you got a little bit twisted up.
Where did I twist it up?
Where's it twisted?
Um, let's see.
The sativa would be, what is it?
I think it was the sativa was hemp, indica was all Afghans, Afghanica was its own thing
that was short, stout, structured Afghanis.
The ruderalis one, it doesn't really change.
Yeah, something like that.
We'd have to look it up because Matt and I disagree.
So yeah, no, it's sweets and dreams, probably the most important.
But what we can definitely say is that it changed classification wise.
Yeah.
From 30, 40 years ago to now.
Yeah.
Very, very different.
And that classification change has not gotten into our common speech.
Yes.
And so we basically, as weed people call, like indica is anything that's like, that's
from Afghanistan, Pakistan, whatever region.
And sativas are various, mostly equatorial things from around the globe.
Yeah.
And that's, and that's it.
And but that's not how they, you know, and so, like, we were talking about it just the
other day where a lot of the highland Afghans or Kush's from Hindu Kush are a lot more thin
leaf.
Yeah.
You know, where the like the Baba type stuff, the more low lying Afghans from, you know,
like low elevation or whatever.
Those are a lot more widely.
Yeah.
You know,
it's because what is it has something to do with the barometric pressure, how the leaves
transpire, leaf transpiration.
And there's that last one.
Oh, humidity.
I believe that's the main factor.
That's related to how the leaves transpire.
But there, yes.
So when you're when you're in a colder, drier, more UV environment, like a like a mountain
highland valley.
Yeah.
You want to have thinner leaves because you don't want to transpire too much from your
pores and you get all the light you need because you're higher up.
So the atmosphere is thinner.
So you get more light.
Yeah.
And you don't need as much.
You don't need as big a fan leaves to catch it.
Yeah.
You know, where it's your if you're in a humid spot or a lowland spot, you could have wider
leaves because, you know, so but that that's there's some bro science there where we maybe
haven't gotten all that figured out.
Yeah.
But there's definitely pure Afghans that have some fairly thin leaves.
Yeah.
And there's pure there's pure Pakistanis or near pure Pakistanis that are pure terpenelein,
which is something you usually see from haystypes, you know.
Yeah.
And they would say that.
And so that used to be I mean, that was the way like if you crossed an indica to a sativa,
back in the day, you would look at all the wide types and be like, oh, these lean Afghan.
Yeah.
And every thin type, you'd be like, oh, that's an extreme sativa.
And you might even judge how extreme based on how tall it was and how thin the leaves
were and thinking you were 100% right.
Yeah.
When in reality, there's lanky indicas.
Yeah.
I remember my first experience with that was a Lebanese that I got from a collective.
And I thought, wow, it was called Lebanese Kush.
And it had very narrow leaves.
It grew one big long cola, but it finished in seven weeks, you know, but it was it was
very red and it had a very narcotic effect at the same time.
And I was very confused how this this narrow leaf thing could possibly be a Kush or you
know what I mean?
Like, yeah, considered an indica of any sort.
Yeah.
It's interesting.
It's interesting, too, because you think about the environment of like, you know, like they
in Afghanistan has a way wider range of elevation than anywhere that people grow here.
All the way from basically sea level up to like, you know, seven, eight thousand feet.
Yeah.
You know, and they have the Hindu Kush mountain range is the second biggest mountain range
next to the Himalayas.
Yeah.
That's seven, eight thousand feet or six thousand feet or whatever.
It's still mountain valleys.
Yeah.
And there's still peaks that doesn't have anything on it that go way up above that.
And so obviously the environment there is going to be way different.
Yeah.
Someone's asking about Asian wide leaf varieties.
I know there was a Chinese variety or a camera was called the I know Ace carried a Chinese
union for a while.
I haven't seen him, but I have heard that there are broadly Chinese plants and that's
supposedly where a lot of those came from.
So perhaps, perhaps I haven't experienced them yet.
So someone just asked, do potatoes grow underground?
Yeah, they do.
No, no, no.
Trees, bro.
Potato.
They they did the potato that you eat does grow underground, but that is a big above
ground component.
Yeah, no, I pick mine off trees.
I'm a kind of fucking potatoes.
But I mean, technically, you know, all broad leaf, most broad leaf is Asian.
Yes.
Because Afghanistan, Pakistan, that area of China, Turkmenistan, all that.
That's all Asia.
Yeah.
That's the heart of Asia, really.
Yeah.
I think they're referring to Asia proper.
Sure.
You know, but I mean, it's definitely on the Asian continent.
Yeah.
Someone asked about ABC, the Australian Bastard Cannabis, fern leaf looking stuff and how
it's classified.
Oddly enough, and this is this is from CSI, not from my experience, but it is what most
people would consider a long flowering, you know, narrow leaf type plant as opposed to
what I mean, it looks short and squat and, you know, real compact, bushy, but it actually
is a long flowering, you know, super terpenelein type plant.
So probably people, most people would classify that as sativa or some type like that.
Yeah, but it, you know, as science starts to study this, it starts to study this stuff.
We're going to learn a lot more about like how the science impacts what's important to
us.
Yeah.
Like Matt and I danced around that.
Maybe I'm bad for bringing it up because we were going to do a whole show on it at some
point.
But certainly the difference between not understanding genetics and not understanding real science
had a massive impact when certain companies started offering genetic testing and promises
based on genetic testing.
Yeah.
You know, and promising that they could reveal familial relationships and they could sort
of unlock this like oral history and provide like a factual web of interrelated and interconnectedness.
And they got people to pay them and send them tons of DNA for it.
Yeah, they did.
And it's essentially, and, you know, and it ends up being that mostly what everybody paid
for and risked their genetics to send in was never on the table anyway.
Yeah, it was not.
It was totally inconsistent data as far as that goes, allegedly.
Like you know, to use humans, for instance, genetics can be like this is 100% these are
my children.
Yeah.
That's your grandpa.
Yeah.
That's your mom.
We can prove it.
And that's kind of what we were looking for with weed.
Like this is your first cousin.
Yeah.
100%.
23 and me for cannabis.
You know, that's your great grandpa.
That's your great grandmother.
That's your mom.
Yeah.
You know, and we didn't understand enough of the science to really like that, you know,
they came out and they made a bunch of claims and everybody sent them a bunch of genetics
and a bunch of money.
And at the end of the day, no one got what they wanted.
Yeah, they did.
Yeah.
You know, unfortunately, we as humans, we tend to think about plants like humans.
And we know that we can do, you know, genetic relational data.
We can find someone based on their cousin.
Now, you know, like people are being put in prison based on this kind of data or tracked
down old serial killers.
But plants and especially cannabis are much more complex creatures with expressions based
on environment, things like this.
It's a lot different.
And there's they needed a lot more, I guess what you'd say is they needed longer read
system than they had.
They had a short read system and it just wasn't accurate enough to portray the data
they were trying to say.
And to me, I think it goes back to the bro science of well, they had these different
categories like hemp, like blueberry.
No, no, blueberry was hemp if I remember correctly.
They had hemp, they had like OG Kush.
They had these different.
They had Kush.
Yeah.
They had Skunk.
Yeah, Skunk.
But they didn't quite say what defined these things into these categories.
But they were organized by these categories.
And people still reference those as like, well, it shows mine is obviously more OG Kush
and Skunk than you know, etc, etc.
That's why I said 23andMe and compared it to humans.
Because when you talk genetics for plants, like, you know, we don't understand very much.
So it's like you try to relate it to the next thing that you understand some of.
Exactly.
And you're like, Oh, I want to see if Chem 91 is, you know, is it?
You know, is it Sour Diesel's grandmother?
Like we think?
Is this related to this?
Are the chems all sisters?
Are they this?
Are they?
You want all that stuff?
Yeah.
You know, and, you know, it, we didn't get it.
Yeah.
You know, and I don't know that.
And you'd almost probably have to take somebody who was an expert in that relative field.
Yes.
And had our back and our interests at heart to tell us whether or not the method, the
methods that they're using, and what they would need to give us the answers we're looking
for.
What it ended up taking was someone that was super precise with their catalog, that probably
has more history and knowledge with their own catalog, that is more resourceful in sourcing
and more anal about sourcing to then supply parent, child, grandchildren, and then backwards
tested and see if they were able to meet up that way.
Yeah.
I mean, I didn't even bring up spending a lot of money to get any.
I didn't even bring up the fact that like you get multiple different cuts that come
in all with the same name.
Yeah.
I was just more talking about like the bro science of like, we have all these stories
of how things are related.
Yeah.
Right.
And then you have the science, you know, like the supposed like the old Betsy and the bullrider
from down there in your neck of the woods are supposedly sisters.
Yeah.
Right?
Yes.
We don't have proof.
No.
Just stories.
Just stories.
Yeah.
You know, so like we have all these stories.
And so basically, it's like, it's like, we're gonna have this like huge industry where you
don't have decades of science behind organizing all this shit the way you would any other
big value crop.
Yeah.
It's all coming out of the woodwork and it's a huge fucking mess.
And there's a bunch of liars and a bunch of hucksters and a bunch of deceitful ass fools
trying to lay claim to old seeds.
And it's like, so somebody gets took on some early 70s Colombian gold.
Yeah.
Pure from my uncle or whatever.
Right.
Yep.
And then that gets entered into something.
So how do you even know what's real to start your basis point?
Well, that's that's like when I first talked to Phylos and I talked to him, I told him
and I said, you need to consult with someone and much better than even myself, who has
a better collection and understands cannabis provenance better than anyone else in the
scene.
If you do not hire them and keep them on staff, there is no point even doing this because
you have to start with good base genetics to be able to develop this system.
You have to have a reliable source for skunk one, reliable source for Northern Lights by
a reliable source for Hayes.
You have to have all that reliable source for SFEOG, all the different OG cuts.
Without all that reliable source, everything else is bullshit because you can't crowdsource
cannabis because most of the time the most faint cut rises to the top.
Yeah.
I mean, certainly they would have a heart and they wouldn't be able to tell anyway.
So you would have this thing where it would be like, well, these five cuts of Chem D say
that this, but then there's these other weird ones that got sent in and say that.
Yeah.
And how would someone know?
They would have to hire someone and that's what they were all too lazy to do.
They were too cheap and too lazy and until a company actually does that, they're going
to get nowhere and every company that tries it is going to spin their fucking wheels because
that's how cannabis is.
As a bro, I don't know enough about cannabis and plant genetics to know what the framework
would be to even get what we're after.
Yeah, I have no clue.
I don't know what that would be at all.
Like I'm not qualified.
You know what I'm saying?
To like judge, we would have to find somebody that was into that, that knew enough, that
wasn't going to bullshit us.
They could look at their methods and their this and their that and figure out, you know,
like with humans, they figured out what the Swedish gene pool was like by testing a bunch
of Swedes.
Yeah, yeah.
You know, and they were able to go around to different human populations and they got
enough data that they were able to see differences.
But I don't know because I'm not a geneticist.
I think because the human genome was so thoroughly mapped and I don't believe the cannabis genome
was thoroughly mapped yet.
Or maybe it's just too expensive to run these type of tests at the moment.
It could be that.
So, you know, there's an aspect where it's like we have all these oral tales about how
things are related.
And we have no way of discerning if they're actually true.
And every time it's been promised so far, it's been cheating.
Yeah, yeah.
You know, it's it's it's been very upsetting and disappointing.
All of the above.
And I think I think what most people don't know is that like, phylos did shut down their
genetic testing.
They are no longer taking in tests supposedly to do genetic testing.
Currently, the database, if I'm correct, is still up.
So if anybody feels the need, back it up because it may not always be up.
And some of these people who, you know, paid for these tests might want that data someday.
And what's risky about it is I was just having a different convo.
But you know, like now that we're getting into science and now that we're getting into
legal stuff, a lot of the science behind it, a lot of this testing and a lot of this
other stuff, people are nervous because they're worried that it could be used to, you know,
lock access to stuff.
Yeah.
Like you get the genetic code for something and you lay claim to it.
Yeah.
You know, or you use it or, you know, like phylos had a whole like, you know, backhand
aspect of what they were trying to do.
Yeah.
And so a lot of science, you know, science isn't just sitting there waiting or it's,
you know, science is done by humans.
Yeah.
And those humans can have like a variety of goals.
Yeah.
So we're trying to do this.
So like for weed nerds, you're all just trying to get some like raw science to like answer
questions and figure out stuff you want to know.
Yeah.
You know, so one thing, bro science that's going on right now that Matt can speak of
extensively, okay, is that most reversal stuff is very bro.
Yes.
In the sense that there's not hard data on what to do.
And you know, Matt and Caleb and other friends that do that shit with really extensively.
There's certain strains where it's, it's very likely that a certain amount of, of spray.
Yeah.
Is very effective and too much or too little is not.
Yes.
And it can vary by strain.
It can vary by clone of strain.
You could have two clones, one inch from each other and give completely different reactions
to the same exact amount of spray.
It is, it is, the data is so incomplete.
And I think the most data is coming between, you know, guys like me and Caleb or whoever
else talking and putting together our notes.
What have you seen?
What was the, what was the PPMs of the spray?
What kind of spray were you using?
What was the, you know, what was the constituents of the spray?
How often were you spraying?
Was it a trigger?
Did you, you know, there's all kinds of things that go into it.
And as of right now, because controls are never going to be that good until you have
a, you know, multimillion dollar facility until that's going on and the trials are being
done in places like that.
I think we're going to be keep spinning our wheels.
So yeah.
So the majority of the, of the seed market right now is feminized, at least the American
one.
And it's very bro science in that it's observational stuff passed amongst friends or maybe some
tutorials that you can read on what to mix and what to use and so on and so forth.
But there's a, there's obviously like, and there's even stuff that, you know, Caleb or
Matt has shared with me where it's like, here's this plant, doesn't matter which one, but
here's a plant and I've sprayed four different types of reversal mix on it.
And this one is the only one that worked.
Right?
The other, all the others failed.
But then you use that same spray on, on some other strains and it doesn't work nearly as
well as the ones that failed on the, that, that plant.
Yeah.
So there's like a big, there's probably in my mind, there's like a vast amount of knowledge
to figure that out.
Yeah.
The one thing that we were finding that's holding true is that each different type of
spray is as inconsistent as the other.
Meaning some that are, let's say someone uses colloidal silver, someone uses silver
thiosulfate, someone uses cobalt chloride.
Each one is going to be like, the cobalt chloride stuff might be better with like TK, you know,
but it's not always going to be that consistent.
It's not always going to be effective.
And each one, each different type of spray is just as inconsistent as the next because
there are so many different expressions.
It's really, really fucking hard to explain and you just can't quantify it yet.
We cannot quantify it yet.
Because for the most part, with some rare exceptions in normal breeding, you can have
a few males and you can get an incredibly dense amount of pollination and seeds, but
you know, off, off of a, off of a, you know, a project.
Making regular seeds is a vacation.
Making regular seeds, you don't really need that many males depending on how big it is.
And getting a, getting a vigorous and thorough pollination with, with a few simple tricks
is quite easy.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Literally reversals are like going into the casino with a bunch of tips and ideas on how
to beat the house.
And you're hoping that you come out ahead that time.
And every time the, the best advice I give everyone is numbers.
The more numbers you have, the more of a chance you have of being successful that round.
And if you can't afford to lose, then I, you know, keep a lot of male plants, clones of
them, or keep a lot of clones of the same plant reversing, do several if you can't afford
to miss.
So yeah, I mean, there's, there's not that, that, that whole area is ripe for a bunch
of, and a problem is, is there's no, there's no direct money in it right now for that kind
of experimentation to go on to really open, unlock that side of it.
So it's just interested breeders sharing knowledge and guessing.
And every breeder, that's the thing you should realize about all these guys.
Whenever you buy Femini seed, you know, I always talk about how like, you know, breeding
is a lot of failure.
And mostly what I mean is that it doesn't give you the results in the children that
you were hoping for all the time.
That's mostly what I mean.
But what's also true is that there's a lot of failure in reversals.
It's expensive.
Total failure.
You know, very, very light pollination.
You know, all that.
And, and so, you know, in addition to the failure of just normal breeding, there's,
you know, the failure to make seed.
Yeah.
The, and, and the main problem, like for people that are wondering what the issue is when
we say a failure, what's going on.
Almost every time, when I did the 13,000 plant reversal, I saw three plants in 13,000 that
didn't reverse at all.
They had no male parts that stayed all female and didn't take any kind of hormonal treatment.
That's three in 13,000.
That's so rare to even be able to observe that.
Most of the time, what you'll see is a plant, a female or a female plant you're reversing
will start to form male parts after about three and a half, four weeks.
But the parts will, instead of like on most males, the balls will hang as they mature.
On a female plant, when you reverse it, the balls cluster hard as if they were a female
bud.
And whatever happens in this action is where it doesn't allow the male parts to mature.
It just doesn't allow them to mature because it's, they're all clustered so hard.
We don't know what exactly causes that clustering.
There's a few tips and tricks like where you can use jubelic acid, spray it really lightly
and hope that the anthers and everything expand a little bit and cause a little bit, give
it a little bit more room to mature.
But yeah, that's the main action.
Most of the time you'll see balls.
Not all the times will the balls open and drop or mature.
Yeah, because there's an open drop on a male and then all this pollen comes out.
But it's like if they're all stacked every which way tight, then they don't open.
And so sometimes there's pollen in there and our friends have had success manually removing
that pollen.
Get tweezers, you pull it out and you shake it out in a little bag, one by one.
And that's, we consider that a failure if you have to do that, you know.
Or using various kinds of mesh or screens or different things and trying to get the
pollen separated from the rest of the flower because you don't want to fail even more than
you've already failed.
Exactly.
So you're trying to get at least, even if it's not a sellable amount of seed, you're
like, well, I at least want some that I can like run and test and give to my friends and
see what's in it because I want to see what's in it.
But there's a lot of manual pollination that goes on with reversals simply because it's
all bro science.
Yeah.
And I mean, Matt can speak to this more than I can.
But I mean, when reversals first started happening, when was the first time that like a tutorial
got posted on one of the forums?
Because it was pretty tightly held information for a minute.
I can't remember the dude's name and I really wish I did because he deserves credit.
But the dude, I know Fett later posted it on from Spice Brothers, posted it on Overgrow
and it was a basic tutorial on how to make spray that will be effective.
It was the 2.5 or 0.5, 2.5 I think it was combo of silver nitrate and sodium thiosulfate
mixed at 500 milliliters a piece.
You mix it in then nine to one on the ratio dilution rate.
And that became where most people started.
And some people took it further from there and worked more on the ratio to perfect it
for certain types of strains and strains are more popular now.
And some people stuck with that and still use that to this day and have effective success.
Yeah.
I mean, we have some friends that have some funny stories that like fucked up the dilution
ratios early on and sprayed like way too strong of a solution and like half killed the plant.
Oh yeah.
Burned it up.
But then it reversed really well.
Yeah.
You know, a bunch of leaves died and it looked all haggard and heinous and all that, you
know?
So I mean, there's an aspect.
And then there's this thing too where like the scientific method is like you do an experiment
and then you get results and then other people are able to replicate that over and over and
over again.
And if enough people do that, well now you've got some accepted science, right?
Yeah.
And then the problem with reversals is someone does something, they write it all down, they
document just exactly how they did it.
And then somebody else does that same thing with the same plants and they fail or it doesn't
go very well.
And so the replication part, we haven't even gotten to that.
This is how you do it.
These are the factors.
These are the things you take into account to dial it in.
It's hoping and guesswork.
Matt would even do a thing.
He would tell me that sometimes he would reverse three or four different strains.
Yeah.
Always have backups and backups and backups.
Because he was interested in breeding with all of them.
And whichever one reversed the best was going to be the males that was used and that obliterated
some failure.
Because you're trying to mitigate failure.
And I don't know, that observational bro science isn't changing anytime soon because I don't
know when corporate paid for science is going to get to looking at reversals and doing a
bunch of non-profitable work to figure out how it works.
And to leave the info open source after that, yeah, it's not very likely.
Yeah.
And to not just sit on that proprietary style because they figured it out.
So that aspect of things.
So there's all this stuff where like real science could help us.
But how do we as grungy weed people access it?
Something going on right now, maybe we could talk about that too, where it's like, I mean,
I wasn't worried about disease at all in the 90s.
Yeah.
And now, viroids and dutting and pathogens have become a massive issue.
Yeah.
And by the time we had testing for them, they were everywhere.
Right now, right?
Like I got people texting me all the time about viroids.
Yeah.
There's all kinds of posts.
It's in all kinds of, you know, it's like, it's going to get to a point probably in the
legal market where when you buy clones, they're going to have to have viroids free tests.
Yeah.
I mean, I just heard that some little raton brought a bunch of clones over to Barcelona
and ruined a bunch of libraries, serious libraries that were keeping old strains, European strains,
because, you know, people over there are trying to import our shitty gelato with fucking HPLV.
And that's what happens.
Yeah.
I mean, I'm to the point now I buy one of those like hundred pack of razors.
Yeah.
And I'm like, you know, if I'm taking cuttings or something, it's a new, it's a new razor
every plant.
Yeah.
I take a lot more precautions.
I used to just use a razor until it got dull.
Yeah.
Take two, 300 cuttings with it and then it stopped cutting quite as well and pop a new
one.
This goes back to what we were talking about the bro science.
Someone just asked if reversals were normal.
Back in the day when I would, you know, debate people about it, I would point out really
quickly that actually we, we as humans have tried to breed out the intersex trait and
the intersex trait is actually standard in cannabis.
So technically reversals are bringing it back to where it was and more natural than what
we have done by humans breeding intersex traits out of the plant.
So yeah, because I mean, that was the big thing was like people, oh, you're doing something
so unnatural to the plant.
Yeah.
You're ruining it.
You're ruining it because it's unnatural.
So yeah, I would point out, you know, actually we're moving it back to more natural intersex.
We touched on that with like the, the Hermes, you start with Hermes seeds, you're ruining
the line.
Yeah.
But there was a lot of prejudice because people thought that they, you were permanently altering
the cannabis, the genes by doing this cheating thing.
And I've mentioned it before on previous podcasts, but up until the late eighties, early nineties,
seedless weed really wasn't very popular.
So all weed was seeded.
Yeah.
You know, so if a plant had a bunch of hermaphrodites, oh well, there was a bunch of males anyway.
Yeah.
You know, all that tie, all that, this, all that hash stuff, they didn't care as much
if it got, you know, like it, there was, there was just, Hermes weren't that big of a deal.
A few seeds here and there.
Yeah.
They were just going to beat the fuck out of it anyway.
They're going to beat the fuck out of it anyway.
They're going to turn it into hash.
And then all the smoking cultures, the Colombian, the Panamanian, the Jamaican, all that, most
of that came chock full of seeds, the Mexican.
Yeah.
So a few more seeds from Hermes.
How's it any different?
Yeah.
It was, it was when we started trying to grow seedless that we were like, Hey, there's this
built in trait to cannabis that we don't like.
What the fuck is it doing here?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Why as a breeder, do you allow this to exist and, and threaten my room of pure, you know,
Because it's like the most unnatural thing in the world is what we do to cannabis.
Yes.
If we grow it for flower.
Yeah.
We're denying it what it wants to do.
I forgot this.
I don't know if I showed you, this is the LA Kush triangle.
Oh yeah.
It looks like it's got some triangle density.
Yeah.
It's very strong, but it actually smells exactly like fucking sour.
Sorry.
Interesting.
I just got sidetracked.
People, someone just asked.
So you do get regular males on reversals.
Somebody just asked that.
Technically, yes, but I don't think they test male.
Like if you were to sex test them, they would sex test female.
They are just expressing male.
So I would need to understand the difference between expressing and, and genotype.
I'll put it this way.
Okay.
So I did a, like a 13,000 seed pop of, of CSI work, which you're familiar with.
Right.
And out of that, we probably got out of that 13,000 seeds, we probably got about, I don't
know, 80 to a hundred observational full males.
Yes.
Yeah.
No female flowers, full pollen, not hermaphrodite, not hermaphrodites where they had both.
Yeah.
But for the most part, full balls, full everything.
Yeah.
You know?
And so, you know, that's obviously not that many out of, out of that many seeds.
Yeah.
But you know, we're, we're playing a little Dr. Frankenstein with, with plants where it's
like they just want to, you know, they're not, they're, they're breeding isn't to provide
us with what we want.
Yeah.
They're trying to make seed for the next generation and do their thing.
And someone said, no, they would not test male.
They would test female.
That's, that's observationally what we've seen so far anyways.
Yeah.
I mean, we know that, so, you know, a certain percentage and then, you know, it's not so
much the, to us, it's not so much the method you use.
It's more that does the plant have it in its genes or not?
Yeah.
Because one of the reasons why, for instance, you guys don't see a bunch of diesel S1s on
the market is because diesel is famously hard to reverse.
Yes.
There's some things with audits, there's some things that herm, but almost never will successfully
reverse.
Yeah.
And there's some things that reverse like a champ.
Yeah.
You know, and there's some things that reliably reverse nine times out of 10.
And then one of those times it won't drop any pollen and you'll fucking smash your balls
in a drawer.
Just that 13,000 seed hunt was in Southern California.
Yeah.
I mean, we did, we did a 13,000 plant reversal and made a few million seeds, but like hunting
13,000 seeds isn't that common.
No, it's, it's, it's a luxury.
It's a luxury for someone to be able to do, feed a bunch that big.
I was helping on one of the bigger farms in Southern California at the time.
But there is, there is an explosion now of 80 acre, 40 acre, 25 acres, you know, this,
that, everything else.
Those 13,000 plants, they took up about seven acres.
But there's also the factor, and I, you know, I saw this with the seed pop at the, at the
hemp place and everywhere else.
Hunting is a bitch when you do 13,000 plants, because someone's got to smoke it all if you're
going to do a pheno hunt.
It was too many.
Yeah.
It was too many.
It wasn't, it wasn't, there was a lot of non-ideal things about that particular project.
For sure.
But people get excited and money does what money wants to do, you know?
And so, I mean, even, even, even growing out three or 400 plants and trying to objectively
test the smoke.
Yeah.
It's, it's, it's, it's rough.
Yeah.
You know, at some point you're, you're gonna, you're gonna start missing things.
Yeah.
Or, you know, as, as Caleb likes to say, just look for the runtiest, shittiest, most nastiest
production plant you've ever seen and let your smokers try that one.
And that'll be the clear top five.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The one that you're hoping doesn't taste and smell and smoke like it actually does.
Yeah.
And then all the beastly production plants, they'll be like, meh.
Okay.
You know, someone just brought in something good, so we'll jump on it.
Did you guys cover bro science of male selection?
And I don't, we haven't?
I don't think.
No, not yet.
Not at all.
We haven't talked.
There's a bunch of bro science with male selection.
Yes.
The number one thing that I am asked as a seed maker is what do you look for in your
males bro?
Like, and that's the assumption that I only look for certain traits in males.
And if they have those traits, then I use them, which is a thousand percent how I don't
do things.
I usually start with an idea, an end goal.
Like I want a plant that's going to be, let's say strawberry and have pretty dense structure
and kind of short and squat.
And from there, I will think of different lines where I can achieve that and then select
a male that has the traits that I want and same with the female.
And that's how each project is done and achieved.
So different male for different female for different purposes.
You know, some bro science that I would classify that I don't know has been scientifically
proven is if it showed flowers in beds, you chuck it.
Yeah.
You know, sometimes people would even torture, like this is some bro science where you'd
be like, I'm going to torture this male.
I'm going to keep a cutting of it.
I'm going to grow it way too big in a solo cup.
I'm going to let it drought three or four times.
I'm going to beat it up.
I'm going to do weird shit to it.
Is it stable?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The testing males aspect was a big popular thing people used to say on the forums.
I'm going to stress test my fucking males.
I'm going to stress test these females and see what we can do to them.
And to me, I always had an opposite point of view on it.
And I'd be like, I don't want people to grow my plants like shit.
So if they grow them like shit, of course they're going to hurt.
So what's the point of that?
You know, stress testing males.
Well, if you throw any male in a fucking tiny little cup, it's going to fucking auto flower
99% of the time.
You know, it's stressful where the plant is desperate to do what it's supposed to do,
which is make seed and provide the next generation.
So you beat the shit out of it.
And you know, some of them might panic and be like, no matter what, I'm going to do what
I'm supposed to do.
Yeah.
Actually, it's interesting.
One of the things we should, and this is something that we might have a friend on at some point,
I don't know, but he goes by the handle on IG of 707 Seed Bank.
We call him Shahbud.
But he was one of the guys, he would reverse males and smoke them.
Because he wanted to see what the resin production and what the terps were and what the smoke
was like as a female plant.
Yeah, I would do the same thing, but I wouldn't smoke them because there usually wasn't enough
smokable content to make it worth it.
But I get an idea for the terpene production of the male.
And that way, when I ran the progeny from said male, I would be able to identify, oh,
this is coming from the male.
And that's why, you know?
Yeah.
So that was just another way of trying to get information because I think Matt calls
it the shotgun method, right?
Where a lot of times you don't really know, you have some observational things.
Is it tall?
Is it short?
Is it curly?
Did it not?
Does its flower custard look sexy?
And then you use that one and then you got to grow out seeds and be like, did this pass
the traits that I want?
And Neville and other guys that grew up in the era of all male-female breeding, finding
the male was the biggest bitch.
Finding the one that would consistently pass the traits that you want to the progeny, that
was the whole game.
And it's still the biggest bitch in the game.
I think even though reversals are technically harder because of the failure rate, I think
that breeding-wise, it's much easier to select a female from observable traits than it is
a male knowing what observable traits he'll pass.
I mean, we could use Neville as another example just because it's super famous.
But you know, when he went to jail in 1990, one of his crew found this cut in NL5 Hayes
and Skunk Hayes.
And it was like a sea of terpenolene and cat piss and weird shit.
And they found this one amazing plant.
And then when he started working at Sensi, they started breeding and he started trying
to find different Skunk Hayes males that he would cross to his favorite NL5 Hayes females
to get that line.
And that's what Jack Herrera came from.
But he still wasn't happy with it.
So they worked on it for two or three more years with Shanti.
And that's what the Mango Hayes and the Neville's Hayes and the Super Silver Hayes came from.
And the whole time, the moms never changed.
The whole time-consuming process was choosing four or five males and crossing it separately
to each female and then growing out the progeny and seeing if the progeny was worth the shit
and gave it what it wanted.
If I remember correctly, he didn't even like breeding with female Hayes.
He thought that the magic to Hayes was in the males.
If I remember correctly.
Yeah, he says that.
And I'm an admitted big Neville fan.
But even I will say that two things.
One is that the males are what he ended up with.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So it's good to say, well, this Hayes C, this was the clear winner.
This is the one we should have used.
And two, one of the things that's interesting is when you're growing out some 18 or 20
or 22 week sativa thing, right?
Collecting pollen and then pollinating a room of much more skunk indica females.
Yeah.
Is a lot easier timing than timing pollen drop to use a female.
You know, so-
To mature those 22 week long fucking flowering seeds.
Yeah.
To mature those 22 week long flowering seeds contained within the female.
And what it sounds like to me is that he had some amazing females and he just lost them
and didn't realize what he had until they were fucked.
Yeah, perhaps.
You know, there's a-
I haven't seen a lot of pictures of original Hayes of plants where people are like, this
is the fucking one of original Hayes.
This is the, you know, there was a lady named Hazy Lady and you might be able to find her
picture still on Mr. Nice.
She was one of the only people I saw that consistently grew the positronics Hayes 19
from Tom Hill.
They consistently grew it beautifully.
And I can say it was a beautiful Hayes grow, but rarely, rarely if ever did I see beautiful
Hayes females.
So yeah.
And I mean, there's an aspect there where it's like, what it sounds like he even, you
know, after four or five years of having Hayes, sounds like Neville ended up with literally
one living plant that he could work with in the future.
Yeah.
Which was Hayes C.
Yeah.
And that makes sense for old seeds, you know.
You know, and, but it sounds like if he knew what he had, he probably would have kept all
of them alive and been more careful.
I would think so.
But by the time he realized how special it was, he'd fucked it off to somebody.
Somebody wants to talk about the 56 day headband.
You can if you want.
I can talk about the 56 day.
So there's some aspects of it that I don't like, but the story is as generally as I can
say is that it was called something else in Southern California.
And it was from within that Kush crew down in Southern California.
Yeah.
In some aspect.
And that Kush cut and those Kushes, it was worth a lot of money and there was a lot of
shit going around with it.
And something happened with that cut where there was some violence.
Right.
And so somebody fled SoCal and came to the Bay with that cut and they didn't want to
call it what it actually was.
Yeah.
Okay.
So they were trying to figure out because they wanted to grow it and sell it.
So they were trying to figure out like, what can we do so we can grow and sell this cut,
but it's not going to create any more heat that's going to follow us from down there
because what happened down there was hell a sketch.
And so they decided to rename it headband.
You know, and I don't know for sure what it was called before.
But it's the nicest Kush type plant that I know of actual Kush, you know, or what we
would consider a Kush type like the SFV or anything like that, you know, like it's the
most potent to me.
And sometime in the, you know, 04 or 05 or something like that right around there.
It's slipped out in the Bay.
And that's how I got it.
And that's how some other people that have it, have it.
And we call it the 56 day.
There's a huge debate about when to take it.
Some people like to take it long, like 10, 11 weeks.
But a lot of people like to take it at eight or nine weeks and they feel it's like the
most potent then.
Weird.
And it gives you the highest high and like the edginess and the raciness and the all
that different types of stuff.
So it's got some mystery, you know, there's some name.
I mean, obviously, like, there's, there's the different names.
I know, I think Duke would call it the rest stop Kush because that's where he got it from.
There's people who call it the murder cut and stuff like that.
You know, some people tried to, some people try to push it as, you know, it's the original
New York City headband, which we now know is totally false.
But you know, to me, like when it comes down to it, I would classify it as far as things
I hold.
It's in the top three or four potency wise.
It's really, really good weed.
I usually pull it between eight and nine weeks.
Yeah.
60 days, 59 days, 63 days, something along that level.
You know, it probably has other names, other places.
There's a few people out there that might know the first name, you know?
But it is, it's a really pure OG cut.
That's the one that I tend to use in all the, if I have anything marked headband, that's
99% of the time what I'm using.
Yeah.
Because his homie had it for a long time.
Yeah.
I mean, now we know that, you know, the original headband is the mama sour and was a very diesel
type fluffy, you know, fox taily type cut.
Yeah.
So these couple cuts that are floating around that are called headband and, you know, they're
not, most things that are called headband are really great weed.
Yeah.
Really great OGs.
Yeah.
But there's a few that are really, really, really great OG Kush types.
Yeah.
And they're not related to New York, which doesn't, you know, it might fuck with some
people's stories, but it doesn't change how nice the cut is itself.
Yeah.
It just happens to be, yeah, it's different.
This dude saying it's different.
It's not my LA cut.
It's not Lupus cut.
It's not the 707.
It's not even a headband.
Yeah.
It was renamed headband because whatever name it had before was sketch.
Yeah.
So now it's just called headband.
We called the 56 mostly as an identifier.
Yeah.
Because there's an identifier.
Eventually you have to, you have to figure out some tag that allows, that allows you
to identify stuff.
Yeah.
You know, I mean, before the internet, we just called a chem dog, dog.
We didn't need it to be scumfy A cut or chem 91 or that like that's all internet names
so that people can communicate about it.
And that's the same thing with the 56.
It's a gorgeous OG Kush type plant.
It's incredibly potent, super flavorful.
It's really nice.
It's probably the best Kush I know of, you know, and it has a mysterious origin.
For someone's question, is there somewhere you can review this?
If you've missed the live feed?
Yes.
On the riot seeds, the account I'm on, not right seed, COVID right seeds.
You can go, there's a little tab area where there's a little play button.
You click that and you can see all the videos that we've uploaded.
Some people are asking if we're going to have the audio podcast backup.
I'm going to do my best to get that.
I'll probably need some help with someone going and extracting the audio portions of
all of these shows for the past.
I don't know.
I think six episodes.
I need to get that.
So if someone's really good with audio and you guys can extract that, that would help
a ton.
I'd really like to get the audio podcast back up and going.
We got to learn some stuff on the fly to keep this shit going, but we're going to do our
best to manage it.
So yeah.
Yeah.
And I mean, we've been trying to do these lives every Friday and be consistent.
I know a bunch of people like to listen to them on a podcast.
We're sorry that it got delayed.
You know, we got a bunch of them up and then it all of a sudden it came down.
People are described the flavoring of the 56.
I wouldn't say that the 56 has the best Kush flavor, but it is that kind of Kush.
It doesn't have a bunch of lemon like some of the ones.
It's got earthy, but it's got that like, cushy type like mouth coat type thing, you
know, but it's got rare potency.
Yeah.
I mean, I'm not kidding when I say it's like, I mean, there's some people, if someone told
me it was in their top one or two favorite cuts as far as what it does to you, I wouldn't
be surprised.
Yeah, I wouldn't be surprised.
It's in the top four or five things that I have.
It's super potent.
It's really nice.
And it does this, even though it's very cushy, it's got this weird anxiety thing.
You know, some people won't smoke it because it gives them massive anxiety.
Yeah, it gives me hella anxiety.
There's people that there's like, there's friends of mine, their wives and stuff like
that, Matt, others like it gives it like tweaks them out and makes them uncomfortable.
It's an unhappy high.
Yeah.
You know, it doesn't do that for me.
It just gets me hella baked.
For some people, it triggers them and it's not good.
But you always say after you wake up from a nap after smoking it, that your asshole
hurts.
And I don't know what's going on there.
Super weird.
I mean, that's the company you keep.
Yeah, Inland SoCal.
Inland SoCal, what can you say?
What can you say, dude?
What can you say?
But it's one of those.
It's a it's it's one of my favorite cuts.
It's a really nice.
It's a really nice plant.
You know, it's it's it can be a finicky OG.
I mean, there's aspects where I there is no difference between Chem 91 and Skunk VA.
They're the same thing.
They're just different monikers for the same cut.
I have a James Loud asked me that you got the Chem 91 or you got the Skunk VA.
You know, there's more than one cut that floats around.
That is true.
So, you know what?
You know, there's that.
But all those names originate from one cut.
Yeah.
You know, and yeah.
And then, you know, so there's an aspect to where it's like getting back to that.
Real science could tell us one day what the 56, how closely it's related to other things.
Yeah, it could take the oral history of them and some of that mystery, you know, and and
it could clear that up.
There is no answer to which one is better, D or 91, because it's personal preference.
You know, I would say both of them are in my all time favorites.
But you know, some people would say the opposite.
Yeah, some people don't like them, you know.
But you know, there's there's an aspect where and someone asked this TK, the original Kush.
I think TK is likely one of the original hybrids.
Yeah.
The question is, is we don't know how many.
We don't know what it is or exactly what it came from very well.
Yeah.
And we think that there might have been more than one.
And we think that most Kush are bag seed or S1s from those originals.
But we don't know exactly how many different originals there were.
Yeah, we don't.
We know there's a lot of bag seeds of bag seeds and sisters of sisters, you know, and
things of that nature.
And so it's hard.
So that's another thing that that real science could explain to us.
Yeah, perhaps one day.
You know, I actually think, to be honest, this might be controversial.
People might get pissed at me.
But I think that that the the the Kush that Josh D and Matt and those guys brought to
L.A. is is likely lost.
Yeah.
And I don't mean like lost like nobody has it.
I mean, like the chain of custody got fucked up enough.
And now it's been it's really hard to prove that this specific one is guaranteed it and
this person has had it.
And you know, it's like it might be out there as SFE.
Yeah, it might be out there as 56 day headband.
It might be out there as this, the ghost of today is not the ghost of yesterday.
There's multiple SFE cuts that flow it out there.
Oh, yeah.
There's so many renames and so much stuff happened in L.A. and the original people lost
it and got it back and stuff that like I think it might still exist, but under different
monikers.
Well, I mean, and then we had certain companies like Cali Connection.
They would make certain strain names like their seed lines would be SFE OG.
So now a bunch of people are growing their seed lines.
Then they have cuts of things called SFE OG.
Now there's 3000 SFE OG cuts all claiming to be the original.
You know, you did that with Larry.
He did it with Tahoe.
He did it with several.
So yeah, the provenance on those are just damn near impossible now to go back.
And there's two or three SFE that are popularly traded amongst people and they're different.
Yeah, you know, but there's an aspect where it's like the TK at least you have really
you have some pretty good chain of custody.
And that Cornbread Ricky sent it, but even before he moved to California, sent it to
some people in California.
And then he brought it with him and it doesn't appear to have gotten lost by the original
crew and there's still good chain of custody on that one.
You know, the Josh cut or you know, the Matt Bubba cut or whatever you want to call it
like that one got a little lost in the wave of the OG movement in SoCal.
And so people can say the 92 is that cut or the Cush cut is that cut?
The Cush cut is that cut?
The the ghost, the real ghost is that cut?
The SFE that I have is that cut?
And then you put those four cuts in the room and you grow them all out next to each other
and they're not the same weed.
Yeah.
So some of those people are wrong.
Or they're the same cut brought to completely different environments, completely, you know,
found a whole different way of expressing and now move back in to the same environment
and they all express totally differently until they're acclimated to that environment again.
So I mean, that's another issue.
There was so much, LA was like the perfect micro cut like to blow up in LA to be worth
that much money.
Yeah.
And a culture that fronts so hard.
We went from like one cut showing up from these Florida guys.
Yeah.
To like clubs full of only OG within 15 years.
And several dozen OG cuts at least.
Yeah.
So how did that happen?
You know, is the Flowrider that I have, is that a sister to the stuff that Josh brought
out?
Is that a sister to TK?
Is it the same as the original Josh?
Is it I've grown it next to the real TK.
It's not that one.
Is it a bag?
You know what I'm saying?
Like it you just don't know.
But I mean, but it goes back to the expression thing.
Like maybe it is the same exact cut and they're just expressing totally differently because
they've been moved to two different environments.
And the hard part is that that's why I do this thing.
I don't know if I believe I have a hard time with acclimation.
Yeah, I do.
I like to grow things to see what they are side by side in the same room, same environment,
same food, same everything.
You know, I'm not sure that taking it to Hawaii for four years does some kind of genetic change.
I don't think it does a genetic change, but I think expression is expression.
And I think that's that's that's for real.
It just I'm not saying I'm not disagreeing with people.
I'm just saying that, like, this is another aspect where we just don't know.
Yeah.
I mean, like like the first thing that really taught me this was cheese.
This is a clone that I had run out many times.
And every time I'd run it out, it smelled like funky foot cheese.
Get it back from a great source.
Now I've got Barry.
And then the next time I grow it, I've got one clone, Barry, one clone fruit next to
them.
They look different.
And it's like, what is this?
Just these little micro expressions.
And you know, with CSI, that was one of the ones that really pointed out environmental
expression is everything.
And you just can't make any kind of conclusions based on growing.
If you if you've gotten the same clone supposedly from two different sources, you can't make
any conclusions about it, them being the same kind of not because of that environment.
So that's what I was saying about wanting to grow the same plant in the same room or
the same greenie or the same environment with the same food at the same time.
Yeah, I think I think that makes sense.
But over, you know, a period of a year or two, I think it would take for it to reacclimate
to the so that makes it really hard.
It makes it fucking way hard.
And it makes it even more confusing on trying to make any kind of claim on whether something
is or isn't something, you know.
But there are when you grow them side by side, it's not like you have to only wait on the
flower.
Yeah, you know, I feel like, whoa, these leaves are a different color.
Yeah, the serrations are looking slight are looking different.
Yeah, like there's other observational things that you can do, you know.
And so I do believe like I actually, I actually got I actually got a chem 91 cut.
Right.
I got a chem 91 cut recently, simply because I wanted to grow it right next to mine.
Yeah, because they've been grown and held and kept separately for a long time.
Yeah, but they're the same thing out there.
They're vegging and I'm growing them next to each other.
I haven't blown them out yet.
But I'm curious is like, I can't I know for sure they're the exact same cut.
And I know who's held it and how long and the whole bit.
But they've been in completely different environments for a really long time.
The other thing I'd wonder too, is like, has one of them been in a place where they
use harsh chemicals for a long time?
You know, many years and stuff like that?
Yeah, you know, you know, all that stuff environment, you know, like, I even wonder sometimes like,
you know, sometimes you get you get a weak plant or you have an accident or something
and you have to save a plant, or you get a plant that's in bad health and you have to
nurse it back for a while because it went through some hell or something.
You know, how does that change?
Can you get it back perfectly healthy?
Are there the same cuts floating out there of the same plant that are just going to be
younger and healthier?
Because they didn't get the tar beat out of them.
It's hard to say.
You know, I know, I know I've had OGKB and then I've had OGKB from a source that kept
it super fucking healthy with Madeleine's cut, where I never seen it express grow as
fast or have the turps that it did, but it was definitely the same cut.
And I'm not even talking about perfect health, just so people know, like, I'm not talking
about dutying or HP, you know, or anything like that.
I'm just talking about two things that we know are the same that go their own path for
a long time.
Yeah.
Which one, you know, it's the same cut, but are they all of equal health?
Yeah.
Do they stack the same?
Do they smell the same?
Do they look the same?
Was there drip?
Because when it comes to me for drift, people say, oh, genetic drift is real.
I don't know that it's real.
I don't think it is.
But I don't know that it's not real.
I mean, we know what epigenetics is, but I don't think we fully understand epigenetics
and how they apply to cannabis very well.
But I think that's what most people refer to.
I mean, I'll say for sure that my LA, my headband cut, it's definitely gotten more sensitive
inside over the years.
Yeah.
It used, you know, 15 years ago, the thing was an indoor beast.
Yeah.
But sometimes there's a weird thing where I almost wonder, I almost had this thought
of like, well, what if I went back to single ended hortaluxes?
Yeah.
Right.
It just turned into a beast again.
And it's that we updated the lights and it doesn't like the new lights.
Yeah.
You know, and you're like, oh, I got old back in the day, I grew it and it looked like this.
Yeah.
And then you change a bunch of shit.
And you're like, oh, it doesn't look like that anymore.
Can't be any of the changes I made.
Yeah.
That would be interesting to know, though.
So yeah, but then you're like some little guy or whatever, you know, so it's like, where
do you where do you get the opposite?
Where do you get to do these different environmental experiments?
Yeah.
And to see if things are the same cut or the same this or like, maybe they don't like the
same light.
Yeah.
You know, I did this thing.
I did this experiment where I grew some head stash under only ceramic metal halides.
Yeah.
Right.
I mentioned the shit before, but the dog shit, which I normally take 12 plus weeks.
Yeah.
And I cut the chem 91 down at 85 days and it still had white hairs all over the top.
I believe it.
Yeah.
And like it was the longest I've ever taken.
I normally take it 68 or 70 or something like that.
But it was like a full two weeks longer than I've ever taken it and it still didn't look
done.
Yeah.
And that was just spectrum.
That was the only thing that was different.
Yeah.
Same room, same food, same this, same hose, watering, everything, same organic inputs,
all that shit.
Did some stuff not purple too?
I didn't actually have any purple stuff in that experiment.
I had, what I tried to do is I grew some stuff I knew really well, like the headband and
the chem D and five or six different things.
And I grew them under the lights.
I was growing the rest of the shit.
Yeah.
And then I grew those same strains in the same room, but like in a corner where there
was only ceramic metal halides I had set up.
Yeah.
And so the only difference that they were getting was the spectrum of light.
That's funny.
And you know, it came out way.
Some things didn't come out very different than each other.
And then a few strains were like way fucking different.
Like I remember telling Caleb that I pulled the the fucking dog shit at 10 weeks.
Yeah.
And he laughed at me.
So I started sending him pics.
And being like, don't you think it's done?
Yeah.
You know?
Yeah.
Am I going to lose you again?
I don't know if you're delayed.
You looked weird for a second.
Are you there?
Testing 123.
Yeah, I'm here.
Can you hear me?
Yeah, he's fucked.
We're fucked.
Am I fucked now?
Or is he fucked?
I don't know if it's me or you.
I don't know.
You're here.
I don't know how to tell.
I can hear you.
You can hear me.
I think it's me.
Yeah, it might be you.
I don't know.
I think it's me.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I think it's me.
But yeah, there's...
So I can think of all these different experiments, and Matt's thinking of different experiments
too, right?
But enacting all of those to eliminate variables is a time-consuming money bitch.
It's just the hole you're pouring shit into to try to learn more about a plant.
Almost all of my experiments that I ran over the years were all based around weather or
reversals and weather...
Something to do with purples and plants.
One of the funny thing was I became obsessed with and convinced that metal halide must
be the way to get the purples to express the best.
And much later on, I learned that that was probably the most opposite and stupid neuroscience
theory I could have had because it actually reduces the amount of purples you'll see.
And that is conclusive.
That is conclusive.
So we have...
And I don't think...
I've been posting on my stories the last few days.
A friend grew out some of my sour, and I wanted people to see it, and it started some convos
or whatever.
And I don't really...
I think the diesels are such a close family that I don't really think that you can compare
them unless you grow them in the same room at the same time, or the same greenhouse,
or the same outdoor, or the same whatever.
I don't think...
Like we were talking earlier, I don't think you can take two totally different environments
and different regimens and then put that in a jar and be like, is this the same weed?
What gives the most perp?
Genetics.
Everything else is just trying to coax the genetics to do what you want.
But some genetics just give it, and it doesn't matter.
It doesn't matter.
But yeah, even just figuring out all this stuff.
Some of this stuff is...
It's very observational.
Getting back to Phylos, Phylos thought every cut of fucking sour diesel they sent in was
the exact same cut.
Yeah.
NOG.
NOG.
And at the time, I was growing out a bunch of these diesel cuts next to mine and next
to the headbands and stuff to try to figure shit out.
And they were obviously different.
Related, but some had light green leaves, some had dark green leaves, some had different
serrations, some had different maturity rates.
Stacked different.
Yeah.
Smells, all kinds of stuff.
All kinds of stuff.
And so, dude's asking, is it the sour I grew up with?
I don't know, dude.
I don't know.
It would be nice if it somehow ended up with me and I saved it.
That would be cool.
I can say that I haven't lost it in over two decades.
Yeah.
That's what I can say about it.
Time will tell, I suppose.
I mean, I even just got a sour from Caleb.
Yeah.
Just because I want to grow it next to mine and see, just do the side by side.
I'm 99% sure his is the same one that me and Pip and everyone else all use and archive.
Yeah, the Choco, that one.
Yeah.
The one I call Choco.
Mine's not that one.
Yeah, I know.
That's so weird.
You know, but it's like, and so I don't know.
I thought for the longest time, I helpfully called it Sour Diesel.
Yeah.
And people will be like, well, what is it?
I'm like, it's the Sour Diesel.
Yeah.
What name?
I don't know.
I have no idea.
And I thought when I gathered up all those sours, I would be able to figure it out.
Yeah.
You know, I'm like, okay, I got ECSD, I got NYCD, I got Joby, I got Amish, I got Choco,
I got, you know, I got this, I got this, I got this.
And it's none of those.
No.
You know?
It's none of those.
So and then none of them were my headband cut either.
Yeah, I was figuring at least some.
The one thing that it did seem, it did seem like the Choco and ECSD were the same plant.
Yeah, yeah.
At least the versions of them that I got.
I was the first person to call it Choco and it was only because I saw Choco's picture
and I was like, hey, that's fucking, which one, which, which Sour's you running?
The one that looks like Choco's.
That's the one.
That's the one.
But it was, it was always labeled ECSD.
Always.
And what's funny is that it wasn't until like, if it wasn't for Matt and Pip and some of
our other close friends, I probably wouldn't have done that experiment.
Because they kept bugging me about what Sour I had.
And I was like, I don't know, I have to Sour.
It's the Sour.
It's the one.
I don't know.
I didn't even know there was so many because I got it so early.
I just never got another one because I had it.
So why would I trade for Sour Diesel when I have a nice Sour Diesel?
And I didn't realize that it was, you know, that there was so many.
Did you know it was the fucking Amherst?
Did you, did you try that one?
That Amherst?
I would say that the Amherst and the upstate New York and the real, there's like four or
five names that I don't, that Matt can probably verify that I don't, I don't think they existed
five or 10 years ago.
There's a ton of new names.
There's a different amount of, there's a certain amount of new names, you know, that have come
out and there was a decent amount of names in the forum era.
Yeah.
You know, and I don't know, like I just lived in Mendo.
I got the Sour in 2000 or so.
We've had it a couple of decades now or whatever.
We didn't lose it.
And we thought that was Sour Diesel.
I remember there was an era where almost everyone's Sour Diesel was so much New York City Diesel
for a long time in the community.
99% of the shit people were turning up with as Sour was NYCD grapefruit.
Hunter, just someone just said, yeah, Hunter Mountain, bruh.
I mean, I don't even know, like, you know, I'm not even dissing Hunter Mountain or this
or that or whatever.
I'm just saying that they weren't names in common usage amongst traded cuts.
Yeah.
You know?
And you know, and so, you know, and there, it seems like there was multiple phenos of
Sour even to begin with.
Yeah.
You know, and then it became the most popular.
Yeah, so trying to declare the one, the original, the only Sour is pretty redundant now that
we know.
I mean, we're pretty convinced that there were at least two or three Sours going around.
Yeah.
Or two or three Diesels, I should say.
I can say, I can say, you know, that when I got it and that we've held it since and
honestly, you know, back then in the early 2000s or whatever, like I didn't ask for all
that lineage.
Yeah.
I didn't ask of where it came from and how it got there and all that different stuff
and like trying to figure that out 15, 20 years later is a mess.
Yeah.
I just got it then, you know, and I have this thing where it's like, if I like weed, I'll
try to hold on to the weed.
Yeah.
Whether or not it becomes popular.
And what happens to most people is they get rid of anything that's not popular.
And then they try to get it back and it's not the same shit.
Yeah.
And that's why everyone's like, where's the real granddaddy perps?
Where's the real this?
Where's the real, now it's like, where's the real Sour?
Yeah.
Someone was asking about Sour.
We have the Sour Across the Blue Bonnet that's pretty good for a regular Sour seed line.
Not a lot of berry comes through.
Archives got some amazing Sour Crosses.
CSI has got amazing Sour Crosses.
And Top Dogs got amazing Sour stuff.
So yeah.
Now that it's gained in popularity, there's a bunch more people that are coming out of
the woodwork with labeled Sours and they're all old and they're all amazing and they're
all this and that.
I think Skunk VA probably has some too.
But yeah, that's who I'd recommend because there are so many people coming out of the
woodwork you don't know who to trust.
There's a bunch.
There's a bunch right there.
People are asking about the Spiroc Sour.
Spiroc Sour isn't Sour.
Spiroc Sour is a sap.
It's something that's sold through some nurseries out on the West Coast here.
It's not a bad cut, but it's some Sour cut across the cush.
Because they were going for like Sour stretchiness, but like more density, you know, and all that.
And so it's some hybrid.
It's not a real Sour cut.
Someone's asking about Skunk Tech's Diesel.
I gave him the Daywrecker Diesel, but what he calls the original Diesel came from someone
else.
Probably the last time we talked about it, it came from someone else.
So it's not the Daywrecker Diesel that he's referring to.
Yeah.
I mean, it came from his buddy, it seems like.
And the dude got Diesel, you know, back on the East Coast, back when Diesel was slang
for fireweed.
So we're not even sure how it's related or whatever else because he just got it as...
I mean, the only reason why he calls it original Diesel is the guy that gave it to him is because
that's the Diesel he got first.
Yeah.
Which is weird is that I passed him the Daywrecker as original Diesel.
So when I saw him post that and say he got it from that dude, I was like, what the fuck?
But it turned out, yes, he did get a different cut from someone else.
Yeah, he did get a different cut.
And that's the name game, you know?
And it's like...
It is.
Yeah.
You know, it's like, I mean, at some of these things, you see people making all kinds of
claims about Sour Diesel.
I try to stay away from all that because I got my cut in 2000 or so, which is a long
ass time ago now, but it's still, you know, it's still years after it was popped.
And I got it on the West Coast.
Yeah.
I'm not even old enough to have been around for when Sour was first getting popular.
And being from the West Coast, it's really...
It's kind of like me, you know, I don't know.
Me trying to say that I would know what a real Sour was or the original Sour was is
kind of crazy in that sense.
I'll be perfectly honest.
Like what would be the original?
I compare all Sour Diesels to the Sour Diesel cut I have.
And not because I'm like, oh, mine's the best or whatever, but mostly because that's my
comparison point.
That's the Sour that I had forever.
That's what I consider to be Sour.
So it's like, is it the...
I don't know.
You know, it's hard to say.
People are asking about the original diesel in here.
So Archive, his original diesel is the Shroomy Diesel, if I remember correctly.
The one that we have as original diesel is just the Daywrecker.
It was because...
Is Shroomy Diesel the Amish?
Yes.
Yeah, that's the same thing.
Is Shroomy Diesel the Amish?
Yeah.
Yeah.
The Amish is a really nice cut.
Shroomy, Amish, and original.
I ran the Amish.
And then there's Daywrecker original.
And Daywrecker original is my favorite.
It's one of the most potent cuts that I have and potent breeders that I have.
Yeah.
So all I can say is that most people don't keep things unless it's popular and it's easy
to sell.
Yeah.
I hold on to things that I like.
So I held on to that Sour even when it was really unpopular.
And then people are like, how did the good Sour go away?
It's because nobody wanted to hold...
Most good cuts go away because people aren't willing to hold them when they're not popular.
And then everyone wants them back as soon as there's money to be made and there's rep
to be had.
Yep.
Simple as that.
Over and over and over again.
Yeah.
So then how does that all work?
It's like, they only want it.
I could spread out my Diesel.
And if in five years, nobody was into Sour, a tiny percentage of heads would keep it.
Yeah.
Because that's what happened.
That's what happened to Urkel.
That's what happened to Green Crack.
It's what happened to everything.
Yeah.
A lot of shit's gone.
I mean, there's another thing that's gone.
I mean, I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Yeah.
A lot of shit's gone that, I mean, there's another cut the other day.
Someone hit me up and asked for Forum.
And I was like, what do you mean?
You want Forum?
What do you mean Forum's missing?
He's like, I can't find Forum.
And I'm like, we can't find Forum.
That's a whore cut.
But yeah.
It's how it goes.
I mean, that's funny.
I see people, and I'm not making, if anyone's listening and this is you, don't take offense.
But I was like, man, I want that real Sour Diesel from like back in 2010.
Yeah.
You know?
you think about it and it's like that's not that long ago.
Yeah, no.
It turns out, you know, we don't know
which cut Skunk Tech Sour is.
Identifying Sours is really hard.
You know, it seems like at the very least
what you can say by people that are trying my Sour right now
is that it's not very well circulated.
Yeah.
And it's not one of the common named cuts.
Yeah.
You know?
Okay, my ring's gonna keep going off nonstop.
We can probably try to end it soon.
This is driving me nuts.
Oh my God.
Well, we are an hour and 15 minutes in.
Yeah.
We're doing all right?
Yeah, we're doing good.
We're doing all right.
So yeah, I mean, we can do,
we tried to talk a little bro science and stuff like that
and ended up on cuts,
but that's the hardest part for me as a collector
is that nobody wants to fucking help me back shit up
when shit's unpopular.
Yeah.
And then everybody wants it
when they can make some money off it.
And then it goes back to nobody wants to help you
back it up because it's unpopular.
Rinse, repeat, rinse, repeat.
And we're about to enter the most abundant time of the shit.
And now you're off again.
I don't know if people can hear me or whatever,
but Matt and I seem to be on different wavelengths again.
Yeah.
Slightly different wavelengths.
Can you hear anything?
I can hear you.
Okay, there we go.
You just look delayed.
Yeah.
All right.
Yes.
Is there anything else you want to cover
before we close it up?
No, we can close it up this evening.
I mean, we're all good.
We kept everybody entertained for an hour and 50 minutes.
That's probably pretty good.
But, you know, there, yeah,
there's a thing where we are gonna try
to get the podcasts up on podcast format
so more people can listen and hear them.
You know?
Everybody know you can listen to this.
You can watch the live feed.
You won't have the comments,
but you can always go back and listen to the live feed
on the Riot Seeds Instagram under the video section.
All this you can replay.
I always leave these ones up with me and Notso.
Always up.
I have one of them that I did when I covered
when Matt wasn't able to make it,
but I don't have a bunch of them.
But on my page, I do have one of them.
Oh, that's good to know.
So if anybody is really good at audio extraction
and stuff like that, we need someone to help with that.
And we'll see if we can get the audio ones back up.
Please go check out the Patreon.
We go shoot the shit all the time on the Discord.
That's where we do most of our dirty work
is on the Discord and talk and nerd out
and fillet each other.
Other than that, go to riotseedco.com.
We have a bunch of stuff up.
I have a bunch of new packs to add in.
It's in sites down right now,
but it should be back up very soon.
Yeah.
I think that's it.
That's it.
So everyone have a great night.
Thanks for listening.
I'll see you next week.
Peace.
