All right, what's up everyone?
Waiting for Natsuko to join this
manscaping talk
He's really a master of pijazzling. I don't know if you guys are familiar with pijazzling
You might want to google it, but that's really Natsuko's main talent is the pijazzle
It's gotta be past your bedtime H&L, old man, old man
I think it's past Natsuko's too
How's everyone doing?
I'm in my undies too
Almost always am. Fucking hate wearing shorts on camera, you know
That's why I keep it up here keep it up this area this region
He always ignores him, huh, that's why I got to keep doing him
My goal is to make him fucking die laughing. What's up curbside? How you doing, dude?
Yeah, the flannel backdrop, yeah, I haven't even I haven't gotten the new podcast room up
It is now just full of fucking boxes after box after box after box after box
so hopefully it'll be
Hopefully it'll be up soon. I don't know. Where is he? There he is
Technical difficulties testicle difficulties over there something online
Actually
When you first started the video, I was like, what if we did a whole live like this like that
That's how you were like it was like the very top of your head and two eyes popping out
I could do it like this. You see my fucking wrinkles
Yeah, I try to keep it's hard too because I can't really like wear my glasses and focus on something this close
Yeah, I can't but but it makes it hard to like read comments
Yeah, I try to wear glasses to read the comments cuz that's what they're for but it doesn't really help much anymore
No, it's like it just fucks me up. I can't like see far and super close at the same time
Yeah, I don't know what it is
So and then yeah, I tried to join the live but I think Matt wanted to get his be jazzling talk out of the way
I did I did I wanted to let them know that
Monologue where I didn't have any chance to check or change the subject so
That was all I was all it was either technical difficulties or intentional on Matt's part, yeah, I don't know what it was
But yeah, I know
I mean
I was just telling about your new hobby that the where you put your gems and you just get nice adhesive and stick it real
Hard and take pictures. It's fucking pretty cool. I mean the people that can make a living doing that
You know, I mean I got to make a living somehow, you know, I would you know
I mean, they probably played they probably paid Marky Mark a lot to pose on those Calvin Klein's, right?
Yeah, I would think so, you know, you would imagine so yeah, he's not packing heat like I am though. That's for sure
No, I mean, I think there was an unripe avocado involved or something
It's all that's for our
colored
That's for artistic impressions. All right. So what do we want to cover today? Where you want to start?
Well, we we thought about
About
We thought about putting out like a few different things people were requesting certain stuff. So
We'll pay attention to comments if we can and we'll take questions and then people were asking about
Like because it's it's like a big name
Like what what some of the super dog which is I'm kind of tied into story is about and then what some of the cush
Story is about yeah
And it's like not to be we probably won't get like
Massively in-depth and some kind of step-by-step because there's a lot of
I don't know
What you got a lot of toes to step on a lot of people with money tied to their story about Ojico
So yeah, but so so there's there's some legends and there's competing tales and their stories that you kind of have to choose who to
believe again, yeah, it's it's one of the more complicated ones and
But we can talk about like how it impacted, California, which is kind of really where it got famous
yeah, you know and
You know cush
I
Wow, that's an interesting one. I did no crit. Huh? Yeah, he has been he's been missing for a super long time
And his family still pays like there's like hundreds of thousands of dollars. Yeah
one of those it's one of those things that uh
Someone asked weeks ago to do some missing person stories or whatever and it's like yeah
There's people have families and friends and loved ones and stuff and all that so yeah
It's probably not the most like the coolest thing to chat about. Yeah
Nature of that. I'm sure yeah kids and stuff left. No, I mean, it's just more like, you know people, you know
It's like someone goes missing you got friends and family. Yeah. Yeah for sure
And they don't have any and and the reason why there's a huge reward is they don't have closure. Yeah. Yes
It's pretty horrible, you know, and so that kind of stuff that kind of stuff happens up here
You know, it's isolated and so yeah, but did you catch the obsolete?
posting pictures of HLV infected seeds
you know, I didn't but
you know, I was actually strangely enough if we could talk about that for a second because
It was probably two nights ago or something. I had a pretty long chat with
CSI yeah, and we were talking about a bunch of different things and one of the things that it's interesting is you know
As you know, he's got a couple of plants
That have dutting. Yeah, right that are just really old and
Irreplaceable. Yeah, and so he keeps them but he keeps them in a totally separate spot and all yeah, right
Well, anyway, one of them is one of them is Kali. Oh, yeah, right
And so there's this rumor, you know, I don't know if it's a rumor but there's a there's tales going around that the viroid
Dutting viroid HL, whatever the fuck you call it HPLV or whatever
Yeah past not only does it stay alive in plants, but it passes on to a certain percentage of seed
Yeah, it's I think the the number is from the hops people. It was 8% of seeds
It can be passed to but that doesn't necessarily people don't understand is that doesn't necessarily mean that 8% of your seeds that you pop
Are gonna absolutely show it. I mean that it gives it 8%
Chance and it could be 8% of the seeds. You didn't pop that you had, you know, yeah
I mean chances is like so over a huge number of seeds
You're you know, all things being equal your seeds said somewhere between like 50 50 male female or 60 or 40
Yeah over over like a large lot like on a big average
But I mean I've popped like 26 seeds two packs of like mangoes haze and got three girls. Yeah
Yeah, you know the same same stuff where you get like zero females all males
Yeah, or vice versa, you know the law of averages on like a very small amount is not that great
But I will say the point before I get to too distracted is he grew out some of those hybrids? Yeah
And he didn't see any he didn't he didn't find any evidence of it yet. Yes, that's correct
so, I don't know I don't know that that's
That's I don't want to say true, but I don't know how proven that is
Yeah, I don't know how proven that that 8% is and is that just hops?
Is it not necessarily cannabis which is a hops, you know relation?
There's not enough science on it yet on as it relates to just cannabis. Yeah, no one no one looks cool smoking their vape
So I try to hide it sometimes. Sorry guys. Yeah, no, no
It is it is interesting
Because you know, there's an aspect we him and I were also chatting about which is like
There was an era where you didn't really worry about
Disease or bugs too much. Yeah, right powdery mildew was unheard of there was no dutting there wasn't anything like that and there was this thing where
Most people either did their own clones
Yeah, or only supplied their small little tiny group of friends
Yeah, right and so a lot of times diseases or issues or something like that
We're fairly localized and didn't really you never really heard about to be honest and then in like the 215 era
When people when lots of clubs started selling racks of cuttings for like for profit
Yeah, a lot of people stopped running their own veggies
Stopped the cake taking care of their own mother stock and their own clones and everything like that
Yeah, and just decided fuck that power and space I'm just gonna buy
clones
Yeah for my next rip from you know, my friend at this shop. Yeah, and I
Smart car. Yeah. Yeah and you know and and such certain companies, you know, and so that so in a way it's like
Those diseases made their way to like certain like nurseries and clearing houses that were supplying a lot of clubs
Yeah, and they spread it all over and they spread it to thousands of different gardens
Yeah, and so then it kind of became this thing where now you see it on IG and all this there's advertisements for
Viroid tests like crazy. Yeah, people are taking all kinds of precautions. We've had buddies that it came in and
ripped through their rooms
No, there seems to be different different strengths and different ones
Most people don't understand what a viroid even is
I think we've all
Everyone in our crew has at least seen one dud over time to be able to experience what that was and now we all kind
Of fucking know it sucks
yeah, but I mean there was even a thing where I was listening to a different and an excerpt from a different podcast and they
were interviewing someone who
Scientifically studied it right and they were talking about the different methods
Because it's a it's a not even a virus it's a viroid it's like little bits of RNA or whatever
Yeah, and it's like for the most part. It's like it's totally fine in 99% ice isopropyl
Yeah, it's it doesn't kill it. Yeah
You know, we've been some a couple good friends of ours
they had some tech at their nurseries where they had like the
The propane canister and the torch that attaches to it
Yeah, and they would torch their their you know their equipment plant to plant yep, that doesn't kill it no
No
I mean root to like like what I saw was root
Like if you have a tray of clones and you've taken all these different strains
Some are more susceptible to catching it by the roots in the water or it's the fucking razor blade or whatever you're doing
It's it spreads pretty fucking bad
and so and so then there's an aspect where it's like basically what they found is that like
You know 10 or 15 percent bleach for 10 minutes does kill it
Really? Yep, but like
H2o to hydrogen peroxide the strong shit. Yeah, that doesn't kill it alcohol doesn't kill it fire doesn't kill it
there's something about the chemical composition of
Bleach, I wonder if the vine oxide works. There's this other stuff
Yeah, there's a few other things that that cause that kill it
But some of those things are like really harsh on tools. Yeah, or you you know, so
But then the interesting thing about bleach is if you buy like store bleach
Yeah
Our buddies skunk just said Vicrons if you buy if you buy like
Clothing bleach like sodium hypochlorite that stuff only stays good once you mix it for like I don't know five to eight hours
Yeah, and then if it gets too dirty it goes inert
Yeah, I remember jungle boys jungle boys was saying they were using I don't want to get it wrong
But it was something like Sanoday or oxidate. Yeah, it was like one from that company's there at all or I remember
Yeah, zero tall. I remember I spilled that shit pure on my fucking leg once
Yeah, I mean
Sterilizers are tough
But you know for people now that we've gone this far into it or whatever
But if you want to use a bleach solution that stays a lot more
Lasting and doesn't get fucked up super fast like your laundry bleach. Yeah get bleach for pools
Because that way that's calcium hypochlorite
Right. Yeah calcium hypochlorite is you know, pools are dirty, you know
They get shit in them and stuff like that like as far as you know, dirt and leaves and whatnot
So it doesn't go inert the same way sodium hypochlorite does. Yeah
But now people I mean I go I go to the store and I buy
You know like a hundred pack of blades
Yeah, and I just I just add to that, you know, yeah, every plant gets a new every plant gets a new blade
Yeah, it's a good heavy drink and you you know you
Yeah, and so there's an act there's aspect to it where it's like so what sucks is that you know
You go somewhere and you see some really cool tech that somebody's doing and you're like, oh, I'm gonna incorporate that into my own thing
And then you find out that it actually doesn't work. Yeah
Yeah, yeah, I tried with I tried with the Sanitate and oxidate on the
four-way and Trinity cut because both of those have the HLB and
No dice hey not so
Yes
Indeed
That right there before I lose it because it'll go off my screen every plant gets its own rooting hormone
Yeah, taking all the precautions to actually like separate and not cross contaminate
It's a pain in the ass
Yeah, it is and it's basically like dipping in you having a separate like thing a clone X for every fucking thing or whatever
Yeah, and then on top of that then you're then you got to use rock wool
Or you got to use the earth plugs or something like an easy cloner. Yeah, it's like that's everywhere
Yeah, that's it's you've done it that yeah, that's like making out with people with the flu. Yeah, you know and
You know and and so it's hard because there's like real science and bro science
Yes, and for a long time we only had bro science because real science couldn't touch weed
I can't tell you how long I have heard that powdery mildew classes passes to seedlings
Like that's bro science. It's been bro science for a long time. So when I first heard about the HLB thing
You know because I'd seen a lot of people breathe with duds over the years and never seen that does pop up in C4
But apparently the hops people do say it happens
So yeah
And I mean that that obviously still has to be checked and and proven over time and that's how science is right is it like?
It's the best information you have and and you know, we'll we'll see. I don't know where that originates from
Yeah, I know
stupidity, I think you know
and
Well, you know it people to have to understand the life cycle of things and like a viroid isn't even a virus
It's like little bits of RNA
Yeah, and so to have something so small like that be able to just fuck us up so hard
He's got VA knows. I don't even know what translaminar means and I probably should but I think that sounds correct. So translaminar
There's two things right? There's vascular where it's moving through your vascular system. Yeah. Yeah, and then there's translaminar, which is essentially like
The the leaf surface. Okay. Yeah, that makes right
So in some for for instance like to give you an example if you could use a certain kind of poison
Yeah, and it would be a contact killer or maybe it would form a relationship and be translaminar and go on the leaf
Okay, and we're not systemic. I
Could be systemic though. It could be systemic translaminar and you can have systemic vascular
I know I know systemic vascular. I never heard I wouldn't think systemic would be just leaf leaf touching, but I guess that makes sense
You know, I mean, it just depends. There's the people humans have figured out all kinds of different shit
Yeah, you know, but he's right in the sense that PM is you know, it's like PM. The hardest thing is to break its lifecycle. Yeah
You know
And that's what people don't do. Yeah, you know, they mostly break break its lifecycle
But then it like, you know
I mean when you live in Mendo and you're surrounded by vineyards and everything else and everybody grows
You know, we got a crash course 20 years ago in PM
Yeah, you know I wanted to make some people 20 jokes, but it's back
You can't even joke about that shit anymore because people take that shit soon
Yeah, it said ab it is a avid is we used to call avid to death
Avid is a translaminar. Yeah systemic or whatever
And you know 20 25 years ago. So is it systemic?
Yeah
Because I last I do remember that spider mites are not susceptible to things that are systemic because of how deep they go into the
leaf
No, they're susceptible. I mean the issue the issue becomes really with spider mites specifically is that
2025 30 years ago there was there's a bunch of poisons for spider mites
that are you know all from pretty natural to pretty toxic that worked really well and
You know people overuse these toxins over and over and over again
It would dip their clones in it every time and we just yeah, they were trying to take precautions
But what they bred was super mites. Yeah, I was pretty sure ab it wasn't systemic. Yeah, it's one of the ones
It's not just because it's not it's not systemic doesn't work necessarily the spider mites. You don't need systemic
So they don't go that far. So maybe people are there's there's vascular systemic and there's translaminar
Right and so like when you think about it like if something's a contact killer
It means that the bug has to come into contact to kill it. Yeah, right if there's something that's translaminar and like and
And and persists within the leaf for a period of time
It'll kill the bug for that length of time that it persists, but that's not necessarily systemic if it's a plant
That's not a definition of systemic
Well, I mean it's also one of those things though that it's systemic in the sense that
Your plant will test positive for it for a long time. Yeah. Yeah, but I think there's something specific about it
Not being systemic like what it would it actually is Abbott. Yeah, I mean someone Emma chloropod
Which is the people use for root aphids or whatever that stuff you can test like that stuff will test dirty one to two years
Later, yeah, that's crazy shit. So that's kind of maybe I mean, maybe I'm getting it wrong what I consider to be systemic
Yeah, is that if you apply it and then weeks or months later, you can still test for it. Yeah, it's around
It's in the plant system somehow whether that's the leaf system or the the you know
And maybe we can look it up and maybe I'm totally fucked. Yeah
It's always possible. Well, that's kind of how I that's kind of how I viewed things is like things that persist
Yeah, I don't I have no clue to be honest with you
Just remember that that the the old saying that systemic stuff doesn't work on mites because they don't go deep enough into the leaf
Yeah, someone just asked if you spray Abbott and veg, it will absolutely
It will absolutely persist for some time. Yeah, and there used to be
I should say I should say this thing there used to be this thing where not to call anybody out or anything like that
But there was a lot of people that supplied clubs
That knew exactly how many weeks you had to go not spraying it to test totally clean at the club. Oh, yeah, and
So they would do this thing where that like this gentleman just just ask can you spray it and veg?
They would spray the shit and veg
Yeah, and veg for X amount of weeks and then bloom for X amount of weeks and then know that it would be clean and
Then in order to in order to get around that yeah the legal testing it went from PPM to PPB. Oh
Yeah, that's right from parts per million to parts per billion and once it went to parts per billion
It fucked every all those people's math and all the rates they were using it
Everybody was hiding using it and getting away with it
You know and so now what's happened is is that a lot of these mites have survived?
decades of people
Spraying them with all kinds of funky shit. Yeah. Yeah, and so there are a lot
There are a lot stronger and there are a lot more
Resistant in California than your average might would be in the wild that shit in San Diego back in the day
They would drink out of it. They did take a shot and said fuck you, you know, like they were they're brutal
Yeah, I mean there's there there's it's it's not
You know and then everything gets overused
And just like anything else if you don't actually eliminate the problem if you just knock the problem down to low levels
And you keep doing that over and over and over again
Eventually the ones that survive are gonna be better at resisting whatever you're using
Yeah, and it could be totally organic. It could be evil like
Avid or forbid or contos or you know, there's a bunch of evil. I don't like being sued
They just in the sense of you know, I mean everything has its place I suppose but yeah
And I don't want to say but
Well, you know, I mean all that stuff comes from the only reason why that shit exists is because it's all over your fucking food
Yeah, yep, you know, it doesn't exist for weed people all those all those crazy chemicals and stuff
Eagle 20 and all that stuff it all exists because it gets used all the time in commercial food production. Yeah
That's why you could even buy it. I remember back in the day the big mix and
Our old truants I should even admit this but it was a long time ago before
Before it, you know, a lot of the information was available, even though you could smell it you could smell the toxicity
but it was a
5 ton 27 and
Spectracide immunox
Mixed yeah for some reason seemed to just knock PM out, but it would also murder your fucking plants, you know
Yeah, immunox is kind of like a derivative. It's like another brand name for Eagle 20. Yeah, you know and
Yeah, the Eagle 20 gets sprayed for grapes
Abbott a lot of these things are designed for ornamentals, too
Yeah, yep, you know, you know points set like the like the fucking PGR bullshit
Yeah
right
Where everybody you know for a while where if you were super unethical and you wanted to get two or three pounds of light and
You didn't care about quality
you would PGR your weed and it was it had and had a bunch of names right phospholoate or
You know there was there was a number of companies that would all hide what it actually was and
It's the same shit that makes like when you walk into a grocery store around Christmas and all the poinsettias are the same fucking height
To the inch. Yeah, that's because they got treated with a PGR. Yeah
I mean, I think I think the term PGR has been demonized just like
GMO or anything like that where they're nice. Sure. Yeah, I mean killer great PGRs and I see people saying fuck PGS
You don't even know what you're talking about because there are actually PGRs that we all use that are no decent
I will say that a lot of the companies would hide the the the
fucking
What was on the label? Oh for sure, right?
and then eventually they got caught on do and they all got pulled off the shelf or whatever and
Sunlight supply came out with one that they called doctor nodes
Mm-hmm, and it was fully vetted through all the all the various agencies, right?
Yeah, so I my buddy had a shop and they got all these samples and one of the samples was this bottle of dr
Nodes, right?
And I'm looking at it and it was a bottle and it came in its own
Plastic sheath that you kind of like almost like a medicine thing that you had to rip open and do that, right?
Yeah, and one of its warnings was pregnant women should not touch the bottle. Yeah
right
That's a though. That's pretty heavy. But like the same on the same tip
A natural PGR is kelp. Yeah, you apply too strong to kelp your plan to do some weird shit
So you're right in the sense that it's just a term that exists. Yeah, it's but what shows
what most people are thinking of when they think of PGRs and weed is like
Fossil load exactly possible load and like the name is this long and it's methyl ethyl and it has a bunch of parentheses and high
Flow you know, yeah. Yeah, it's it's it's all it's all kinds of bad shit
Paco, you know
Paco Paco butanol
Terrible. Yeah, and in addition to in addition to making your weed super dense
It fucked with your crystal content and made your weed
B-grade. Yeah, definitely and there's a lot of companies and this is even fucked up even if you weren't evil
And use the shit. Sorry if you used it, you know, I just called you evil, but
They didn't put it on the label and lots of things and then there's other companies that would put it into like
Budblasters and things like that and they would just put small amounts for that extra oomph. Yep
Yeah, it's all part of that fucking nutrient game, which yeah, I mean after making the spray
And in learning about different nutrients how they're sold how you get regulated how you get, you know
I'm realist at all that stuff. It's just like to me like it was like learning about the
vitamin like like
What do they call it? Like when you go to those muscle stores or whatever you can buy the other supplements supplements
It's like something I'm sorry. I have to I have to interject to yeah
You know someone's couples a couple people said gravity and shit like that
Which is definitely one of the things and then someone was like, yes
It was it's illegal to not have everything on the label. Yes, and
You'll be shocked to know that people making products for cannabis people were willing to do something illegal
Yeah
And that not all of them had the highest of ethical standards, yeah, but they got that purple max though
I mean that gravity shit or whatever. I had a friend
Who literally was like an early proponent of you know, you'd probably call it living soil today. Yeah, it was super anal about
Inputs and all this different stuff and so he comes in and he buys some of that
And all it says on the label is kelp
Yeah
But it had the full Paclo in it
I'm sure and so he goes out there and he makes a whole resi and he waters all his beds
And he'd had those beds for like five six years and had been developing them every year
And then he went and sprayed him with Paclo because it wasn't on the it wasn't on the label
He thought it was yeah, and nobody knew to tell him. Yeah, you know
so
Yeah, that some of that stuff was insidious. They were trying to sell you a product that you'd buy again
Yeah, yeah, I mean and it's just like I look at it like drug dealers who press their pills and like, you know
Double the the strength that there's an axe
Of course people gonna go back to that fucking dude if they want to get all super fucked up and die
So I mean there was even there's even pesticides that have gotten caught right that have gotten pulled from the shelves in California
Because they listed, you know clove oil and this and that whatever to kill bugs and then they test it and it's got avid
It's got a bit acting in there. Yeah. Yeah, it's got true. It's got low amounts of
Something that really works. Yeah, you know and then they just figure I'm as someone actually gonna analyze my secret sauce
Probably actually people do you know eventually people do I mean there was a there's there's been times where
Like weights and measures has come into groceries. Yeah, I bet and by law, you know
If it says it's 40 ounces, it better be 40 ounces. Yeah, it says it's X amount of pounds. It better be that
Yeah, and they'll pull all their shit off the shelves
Oh, yeah, because it doesn't weigh right? Yeah, I think people are asking about power. So I know that's a
ortho solicitor monocell is sick
Acid it's it's it's a it's a silly. Basically what it is. Is it silica in a form?
That's a lot more absorbable for the plant. Yeah, there's a lot of shit
There's a lot of silica out there that is not that easily plant absorbable. Yeah
Available for cannabis unless you reuse your soil for you. Yeah, and so and so as a result
There's there's a number of cutting edge has one
Power C is one. There's a bunch of them that put it basically in a different in a different suspension
Yeah lack of a better way to put it that makes it that make silica acid that makes it a little bit easier for the
Roots and the plant to actually uptake. Yeah, that's one of the few products like that
I really actually visually can see change within 24 hours of using it. I
Was a big fan of it. It's expensive as fuck
But yeah people are talking about and there's enzyme product a lot longer right now to
enzyme enzyme products are
I use them a bunch actually there's new come and and dr
zimes and all these and they're all basically this there enzymes that fuck with the
The eco skeleton to the point of the bug and there's citric acid in there
Yeah, right and they're really gentle and a lot of more organic and they test clean and they absolutely annihilate
powdery mildew
And they do a pretty good job killing mites, too. Yeah, I'm still I'm still a big proponent now because of you of the
What's that shit called the micro?
Sulfur micronized sulfur micronized sulfur. Yeah. Yeah, that's a truth. I mean micronized sulfur if you don't use oils
Yeah, and you spray micronized sulfur. I learned that way. You'll never you'll never have russet mites
Or p.m. In your veg ever. Yeah, it's beautiful except when I use them both together in the same bottle like a
Absolute fool and yeah every plant that I had and well, yeah, they'll burn hairs though. That's why I said in veg
Yeah, you know, you'll definitely sulfur is a really
Distinctive aroma and you definitely don't want to be using sulfur for any reason much past the first week of flower
Yeah, it's not once you start saying to me
It's it's not a good idea. But in in veg when it's just all sticks and stems, you know and leaves it's organic
It's safe. It's you know, yeah
It it works really well
I
Totally got away from oils
Simply because I like sulfur in the rotation as a safety measure in the veg and plants tend to like it a lot
And I don't so I don't use oils at all. Yeah, because I God help you if you got russets or something like that
You know, it'll it'll annihilate those
Yeah, it's I think it's safe to use indoor, but I don't like put on masks when I spray either
So what the fuck do I know it is safe to use indoor?
But I put I would put on masks, you know
Even people put on there's a lot of stuff quote-unquote. That's safe
that I might only put on like a
like a
Snowboarding shell or something to spray but I have a full face mask with a visor and the whole bit, right?
Yeah, because it might be safe for your plants, but that doesn't mean your lungs want it. Yeah
No, I don't want to breathe in wettable. So I don't want to breathe in anything
Like on that level, you know, so I always wear a mat. I don't want in my eyes either
Yes, good. It's probably why I'm fucking blind to be honest with you. Yeah, I mean, you know it
It I just I you know, it's that I always do that. No as I got older. Yes
Yes, I've gotten older. I've tried to be more
Nice, I don't know. It's a two or three hundred dollar full face mask or whatnot and even for the most basic stuff
I put it on
Someone said they started using sulfur because that guy who said sulfur is how to get our
Esther's I mean, it'll definitely make your weed smell and taste like a tire fire
Yeah, I mean if you use it wrong, yeah, if you feed it
To the roots it does, you know increase terpenes whatever it has. It's not going to change somebody said yeah
Newcombe Newcombe and sulfur or Newcombe and dr. Zimes and sulfur or whatever. You can use them back-to-back
There's not oil in there. So you could use it. I've done it a bunch. It's completely safe
The only thing something happens when you combine oil and sulfur it changes the pH on the plant and it burns them to shit
Yeah, it murders them. I've so do you
sulfur is sulfur is very
Very very safe
As long as I mix it with oil. I never usually do lines of pure or wait
I should say if it's over 90 degrees sulfur can really hurt your plants. Yeah for sure. So don't if you know
We meet me and our buddy and I we one of the fires in 2019, I think it was 2018 maybe
We had sprayed sulfur the night before and then the next day
One of the biggest fires in California history started a couple hills over from us
Mm-hmm. And the first thing it did was burn out a bunch of power poles
Right. Ah, so the key it was a hundred and eight degrees and the lighting went out
But sort of the air conditioning and all the fans and everything we had because the power poles bent and fell
Yeah, and it got real hot and we lost a bunch of moms
To sulfur yeah on the day before that's
There's a lot of that's sucked about that fire. But yeah, I mean we didn't have power at that spot for almost two weeks
You know and it was June and you have a death and I mean there was problems there was issues, you know, yeah
So
But yeah, I mean
People trying to read and talk or whatever. I didn't even think we actually bullshitted for on a totally different direction
Yeah
Yeah, don't get don't get sulfur on your lights, you know
But yeah sulfur sulfur works better than anything I've ever seen against russet mites
Yeah, it absolutely annihilates them and it annihilates powdery mildew. Yeah, I never had russet mites in my life
So I should knock on wood somewhere but powdery mildew, you know
It's even a problem in Bakersfield where it's super dry. And I mean, do you know that do you know that they consider?
russet mites aerial plankton
No, that's weird. You ever heard that word aerial plankton? No
So area so obviously plankton in the ocean. Yeah, they just get carried around by the currents
Yeah, right
Russets are so small
They can get just carried by wind currents for long distances
Yeah, they're that's why they call them aerial plankton because it's like living things that are just getting carried along by
current in this case wind current so you could have a neighbor a couple hills over and
The wind could be going the wrong way and they could definitely
Start blowing off their plants and right up the hill and right up into your shit
Yeah, and that's how a lot of people got them in in Mendo actually was they spread neighbor to neighbor farm to farm
You'd be you'd be downwind from someone and about July August their garden would fuck you. Yeah
And so you could take all the precautions in the world about quarantine and bringing in clean stuff and not allowing pests in
You know, and then they came in on the wind
Ain't that a bitch?
So somebody just said
Spinosad, I'm sure there's there's uh, I'm sure there is
Spinosad is a cool story. Actually. I don't know if you've ever heard it. Yeah, but
Spinosad is like a is
Basically a bug killing fungus. Yeah, right and they discovered it in the Caribbean, right?
There was an old rum mill and they went into this big old factory
You know rum factory and they noticed there was no bugs
Yeah, all of them there was like zero no spiders no bugs of any kind so they took soil samples and they found spinosad a and
D
Yeah, and that's what that's what when you buy spinosad. That's what that's what it comes from. It comes from them discovering this thing, right?
But the reason why you shouldn't fucking use it is that it is
Really it is terrible first beats
Yeah, it is one of the most toxic things for bees
So it's safe for you and it's safe for people and animals and all that type of stuff
But it'll take out a whole beehive. That sucks
So it's not it's not a you know, I mean, I guess if you were indoor
You could safely use it on your plants
Yeah, and you really wouldn't have too much risk or be or you know be an asshole about it
But yeah, if you're gonna spray it on a bunch of your
Your depths or your outdoors or something like that? You might kill the natural bees all in your area
Yeah, and they have their own they have they have enough struggles going on right now be populations with a lot of things that are
Fucking with them. So yeah, I would definitely I could never in in good conscience recommend somebody use it in their depth or their outside
Yeah, you know here some shit on OG when we can get to that sucka
We're there. I mean, I don't know. We just we just took it and we just took it in that direction
But you know, there's a bunch of people listening
So if if we talked about certain things and and why not to use them, that's cool, too
Yeah, and that's the reason when people say Oklahoma or California there's testing for it. It's not because it's harmful to humans
It's because bees pollinate half of our food sources, yeah, and so we really really don't want them to die
Yeah
and
They are dying at a rapid rate and they're dying at a rapid rate from a bunch of different issues and from a bunch of
exposure to toxins and pesticides herbicides and other and other stresses or whatever and
Literally, there's an immense amount of stuff that you eat that wouldn't get pollinated if it wasn't for bees
Yeah, though spraying a shit ton of
Bee killer
You know, yeah, it's a little rough
so
All right, so we can we can talk we can talk about cush
This already just I just totally changed my mind. You don't want to talk about it at all
But yeah, but I mean it it there could be there could be now that we've been chatting about it for a while, yeah
You know not right now but like our experiences in the future people want to know about
Pesticide or or tech or how to beat certain things or what works or what doesn't?
Living up here surrounded by growers. I mean, I've kind of seen about just about everything tried
Yeah, and you start to poke around and what works and what doesn't what are the downsides to this thing?
Yeah, because most things have downsides
You know, so you got to pick which ones you're okay with. Yeah, you know
Definitely but
People want to hear about og
Yeah, like a lot of things or like a lot of famous stories
It's not mine or math story. No, I have nothing to do with og by any means
You know, but we you know what we thought like so
There's there's like the the most mysterious part about it is the is the Florida history
Right, it starts getting a little bit more definitive and understood once it got to California. Yeah. Yeah, right
So what we thought is like obviously this is like I mean there's been whole shows where people
Confidently talk about the origins of og and this and that and everything else
And there's a bunch of stories because it's so famous
Various people trying to lay claim. Yes
Right, there's somebody in Hawaii who says his dad did it, you know
There's my favorite. There's no no my favorite was was
Was the underground bunker Frank Gygax story that Frank Gygax said is not true. That was my personal favorite
So there's there's there's the like there's a story that it's Neville work that got sent to Hawaii
Yeah, and made his way to Florida from there now, we did have apparently many backups everywhere yeah, we don't know there's a
you know, there's a story like he just said that you know, Frank is a guy that had a bunch of
Basically undergrounds and warehouses and big grows
In the southwest, you know, United States, Arizona, Arizona and New Mexico ish and all that
There's rumor that it came from there
It certainly seems guaranteed to have come from Florida people
Coming out this way me and fatty did meet old Dave Richards
He was there when I met that guy and he was tough
He had a circle around telling the tales of og and how he fucking made it
I mean, I've met I've met Dave Richards. He's character. Did you meet him? Yeah, I met him
He's he smokes black and milds on one of those fucking things. Yeah. Yeah
I liked him in person like I'm gonna lie like he's a funny dude. Like he's he's personable
Yeah, he's personable. It's hard not to like him. But when I realized how much he was lying to me I was like, okay
Come on, dude. Yeah, like it was so easy to snap. He's personable. And so there's a there's an aspect where
Marks Castle. Yes. That's another claim. That's right. Anyway, there's basically what it boils down to is that Kush became
One of those things that ended up being so famous and made so many people money that there's a lot of people
invested in trying to be like
You should give me rep because my crew or my family or my whatever my friends are the ones that brought this to the world
Yes, and so people come out of the woodwork, you know, I mean
And I'm not trying to call individuals out, but it's like there's everything from those crazy stories
We told you to the one that Matt and I tend to believe which there was like an accident and a closet and it came
out of some bag seed, you know to
ever changing story from TK origins
With different years and different plants and different certainties, you know
And you know, it's also possible to that like it's you know, it's it went it was it was strains by a different name
And now we just know it as Kush. Yes
You know, I mean we you know Neville told
Neville told Matt that he thought that most of the American Kush stuff was based off his Kush for NL 2
Yes. Yeah, you know and it was all just it was all just he knows of that
He just thought it was an old to expression out of that. Yeah, he thought this is an L to this is mine obvious
Right and so, you know, and then you know, there's so there's all these different things but what regardless of all that
You know
Yeah, someone you know
There's uh, there's a bunch of rumor. Yeah, and since we don't know any of the parents
Right. It allows basically anyone to step in and say
Fucking this is the story. Well, I mean I also think because the way og expresses being long and lanky with dense nugs
So it looks like what we would just
Consider traditionally as like a sativa because it's so long and lanky but then it has these dense
Nugs and resin like an Afghani. So it's really easy to just make up bullshit and be like, oh, that's a fucking Nepalese
And just some random it's even some random Afghani, you know, so maybe we'll go away the fuck back for a second
Okay, right start start at the back. We'll start at the very beginning
Okay
So the very beginning of Kush in America and we have no idea if this relates to the Kush that everyone is familiar with
but people would bring back seed from the Hindu Kush mountain region of Afghanistan and Pakistan and
Those mountain valleys had the Kush
Yes, right and that was the first term Sam skunk man had a Hindu Kush
That was the Hindu Kush mountain region
The Hindu Kush mountain region the Indian supposedly gave Seattle Greg a Kush that got put into nl2
you know, there's various ones right and
So it used to be a generalized term for a region
Yes, right. We're now if you fast-forward 40 years today, it basically goes back to
You know the Kush that went to LA
The TK that type of thing is like that's what everyone thinks of is Kush
Yeah, so it went from like a region and all these different Afghans within that region
Yes to like a very specific
Fino expression and look yes was Kush. And so now if you talk about Kush today
You're not talking about the region anymore with anyone
right now you're specifically talking about a
Specific phenotypic expression and a look and there's variance within that look but it's got some key
Characteristics and one second just for everyone that keeps mentioning the Paki lemon tie
I will tell the actual story behind how that how that came to be and you'll laugh your ass off
So let's continue. So so anyway, so it started off as it started off as a region
right and
Maybe we should talk about the region for just a second because it might interest people, right?
So I I have this theory and I've and I've seen it in some different places and all that and
like and we've bounced it around and I would so I wouldn't say it's like a
Theory that's like, you know, you couldn't poke holes in but I think it can hold generally true
Where if you look at Afghanistan there as parts of Afghanistan that are anywhere from sea level all the way up to 10,000 feet
Yeah, right. There's a lot of different elevations. So like Mazar
That region that's maybe only 800 feet above sea level
Yes, but there's areas on the Hindu Kush valleys that are five six seven thousand feet where they grow vegetables and wheat
Yeah
And so what tends to be is that when you get the lowland?
Afghans that are in the foothills or the plains or sea level in Pakistan or Afghanistan
They tend to be these squat
bigger like fluffier plants with much wider leaves
Right, they're not as dense
They're growing in more humid areas, right a little bit
And they're lower to the ground and they have these big fat wide leaves. And then you get up into these high mountain regions
Okay, which also has Afghans and those Afghans kind of sound a lot like what Matt described with the Kush that everyone's familiar with
Yes, guinea leaves, but indica
Mm-hmm, right not not big fat wide leaves, but skinny leaves
Golfball type much tighter type nugs, right?
Yeah, and you think about the environment that they're in very cold colder drier a lot more UV, right?
Yeah, and so the leaves are smaller
Because catching all that UV is bad
Yes, the intensity is more I think I think what I was talking about this with CSI because I don't have a lot of
Experience with outdoor other than a few, you know, like depth runs in San Diego
But I noticed that even with the nl5s
They're expressing way more narrow outdoors and it's just a trait that
Outdoors because of humidity and other other things and transpiration. They're just naturally more narrow
There's gonna there's the plants gonna have a range of expressions based on all kinds of factors. Yeah, and you know
He only just said, you know UV protection the higher up you go in elevation the less atmosphere
There is the less UV is filtered out. Yeah, right and so obviously
Even though the plant might come from Afghanistan if it developed in a valley that's six or seven thousand feet above sea level
Mm-hmm, and it's a mountain region that kind of cold and day night temperatures and a lot of things
It's gonna have different breeding pressures and different plants that are successful
Yeah versus a lowland plant from the plane that gets you know moisture off the ocean
That's gonna be a different kind of plant
Yeah
and I think there's a lot of misconception where people think all thin leaf is sativa and
The broader and fatter it is the more indica it is. Yeah, you can have
narrow leaf pure indica
Yeah, you know, it just happens to it's just usually highland weed. Yeah, not lowland
You know, and I think that's a big misconception
Yeah for a lot of people
Yeah, I think that's a major misconception
Yeah is is all indica and all Afghan the broader the broader is the more Afghan and the narrower is the more sativa
Yeah, you know and maybe if you crossed a broad leaf Afghan to a narrow leaf sativa, that would be true in the children
Yeah
You know and so now so so anyway, so there's
Highland Afghan. Oh, there's a lot of there's a lot of mountain valley weed
Yeah, and there was a lot there was a bunch of weed coming over to America called Hindu Kush
Because that was the big mountain range and all the valleys that that it came from. Yeah, and
Dirty old saga saying there's hash plants because those were all hash plants all those
Lebanese I read love that I had was also narrow leaf, but it grew like a big Afghan sideways. It was real fucking weird
Yeah, yeah
and so there's just
You know like a lot of times and it makes sense like you read books and you see what you're familiar with in America
Right, and there's certain assumptions that get made but they're not always the true ones. Yeah
you know
and
You know and and you know narrow and and what I mean by narrow leaf is just like obviously there's a range
Yeah, Bodhi has a lot of really good narrow leaf Afghanis and pakis. He's put out if people are interested
Yeah, it's just and and so a lot of times I I believe very strongly
I can't say it's a hundred percent fact, but I believe very strongly that almost all those narrow leaf indica types
Developed in high altitude regions of those mountain ranges where they didn't need as much leaf to capture
light
They needed less of it. Yeah, right because each leaf has a job, right?
Yeah, it's there to transpire water and it's there to catch sunlight
that trees and water so
yeah, if it if it
On my buddy I was visiting my friend yesterday and he was showing me an Afghan and it was thin leafed and fluffy as hell
Yeah
So, you know the leaf has a job and if it's way up there in the mountain valleys and it can do its job on a
Skinny leaf and it's not gonna put a bunch of effort into growing a big fat
Thick leaf. Yeah
Is there no narrow leaf indica type or hybrid or Cole expresses many different ways? I've seen it be narrow and I've seen it be broad
So one of those that it depends on the room the environment how
Narrow or broad it is. So just as a general thing
a lot of times people
You know people judge narrow or wide based on and and make guesses based on how sativa or how indica but that's not the whole story
Yeah, I honestly think that can tell the story about the Paki and the tie
Yeah, I honestly think some of the some of the the cush that we're familiar with some of its narrow leaf characteristics
Led people to believe there was sativa in it
Yeah, I think I think the stretchiness and all that shit and
Definitely, it wasn't as broad as a lot of Afghans despite the density, but the story
originated from there were two brothers back in the day that went by brothel brothers and
One would call himself Kyle. Ooh a kid and the other called himself NYC kid both. I think are still around
I know NYC kid is still
But back then
Kyle a kid who also went later on to start tricone Kings and a few other things and
Paradise seeds mod was another name of his
He made the claim that he bred OG and that it was Pakistani crossed a lemon tie
lemon tie was a Dutch flower string and
I mean there are ties that are lemony but the one he was referring to is a Dutch flower strain and he's not in fucking
OG cush
This that's one of the oldest stories that's been shot down more than almost any OG cush origin story
But to this day to this day people still fucking repeat that shit
Adnauseum because they don't know that the guy was a major scammer that started the story
He's fucked all of us all of us back in the day
But and he made a lot of claims about Asian fantasy and all kinds of other stupid shit
It was just what he did. I remember at one point he was selling seeds. He called
Dog dog but s ones and then I kind of called him out on his like well
I don't know man. I got him in a bag labeled dog doggy doggy, but weed, you know close enough
Yeah, so this is the guy that they're relying on for that story
That the second story that we were talking about the Frank Gieg app story
It was started by a guy named Dave Richards and he told the story on Adam done
He came out and he actually I believe Adam done at one of the Adam done cups gave him a lifetime achievement award
for breeding and bringing og cush to the masses
Unfortunately, Dave Richards made a lot of mistakes
One of the first ones was that it was a it was a hash plant tie Afghani
Which he kept referring to as h-taff now h-taff is an old term from DJ short referring to highland tie Afghani
So he was confabulating different stuff to make his story. He also said that Frank Gieg ax left a book behind
With the breeding tips on og cushion everything about it when I spoke to Frank Gieg ax directly and his daughter
I went to lunch with his daughter and breakfast
We went to a few different things
But I talked to Frank Gieg ax over the phone and he said that he wrote that book as a grow book for dummies in
Prison because he had nothing else to do. So
Dave's store and also Frankie got said they never bred there
It was only commercial production and it was he gave a few different lines. I want to say it was like NL
For something weird that I don't think you probably had big budge skunk one and something else
He said we did no breeding there whatsoever and he completely smashed that story to smithereens
But still people again repeat it constantly to this day as truth because it was aired once on a show, you know
But those are the probably two of the biggest ones the the third being
The creepy story and that's just silly like I mean, I I don't think anybody that's been around a long time even gives that dude
any kind of
Credit yeah, it's not even worth addressing to be honest with you on the creepy thing
I mean what you know, and then there's there's there's the story of how you know, there was accidental pollinations in, Florida
And so really what what it seems like it does seem
To me at least is that I do believe that there was multiple people that brought Kush from Florida to
California
Yeah, I think that's factual
Right. Yeah
You know, we're you know, because obviously people know about cornbread Ricky and TK
Yes, right. He sent that out before he came out physically himself to the state. Yeah people know about
Matt Bubba and and
Bubba Kush and
Josh D
I'll say I'll say
Flat out when I when I first talked to Matt
I thought he was full of shit because he comes off like a little bit of a used car salesman when you talk to him
He's very friendly, but it's his it's like his nature. So I didn't believe him but everything that I've ever
Researched and found is he has not been wrong once and and as much as I was biased against him
I was biased against him. I've told him dude, like I can't poke holes in your story
Unfortunately, like I don't believe you but I can't poke holes in it. So I'm left with a truth as well
So there's an aspect where and Bubba Bubba and that Kush that went to LA became very famous
TK became very famous
There's a screen that got sent to the bay
That we called the flow rider that I've chatted about before and I posted about
That went into cookie
and so
Well, we don't know for sure
Irene Irene comes a little bit later, but that's another beautiful Kush stream
But there are there were multiple people
That got Kush to California to different people at different years
We don't know huh the slow down real quick
So I think I think people would be interested in the Irene story a little bit. Don't you think sure?
Yeah, well, so Irene I'll let you tell it cuz yeah go for it
So the original Irene is as best I can remember. I wish rude boy was here right now
But the original Irene was picked from a bag of weed that went from California to Atlanta
And what was kind of cool was that we were able to link up resin lung and his crew with the Atlanta crew and how
They were shipped. I'm not gonna say it
I think we said it a few times, but you can figure it out
Anyway, they shifted a certain way and it was so unique that when they were both telling the story was like, holy fuck
There's no way they just made that one up
It was something that nobody would think of it was originally from a bag of weed
I want to say
Either the first Irene was from a bag of Larry og or the second Irene that they picked after they lost the first Irene
They picked another selection that was the most similar to the first one and that came out of Larry og if I remember correctly
But that's the rough story the Irene that we have now is what you would consider Irene, too
And that's the one almost everyone has grown only a few people like smoked a herb and rude boy
Really experienced the first Irene
so yeah, so there's so basically if you move past the
the the origin stories
Right of who's responsible for it or where it came from? Yeah of which there are many
There was it does seem like the stuff that we know of
made its way from
Florida to California. Yeah, and we don't know
Exactly if all those things were the same cut
or there was multiple cuts that came out or there is possibility that there's a cut that shared a name and
Was called different things by different crews. Those are totally possible, right? Yeah, but
What really happened is?
you know
Bubba Kush Matt Bubba
he brought he him and Josh D brought out Bubba and that and a couple other strains from Florida to
a
neighborhood in LA right and
They started growing some rooms of it
yep, right and
What happened I think in LA is that?
LA is such a is such a hype town and it's it's it's so about flash and it's so about like who has what?
Whether it's alcohol or cars or watches or clothes or whatever
That yeah, Kush caught on with a certain clientele and then everybody had to have it
yeah, and then so demand went through the roof and
You know, there was only so much of it being grown
And so wholesale became crazy, right? Yeah, and then so it became worth a lot. I mean, what was what was uh,
You know, what was it going for back like 7200? Yeah, it was wholesale
Okay
Six to eight K right? Yeah, and so and if and it gave you status if you had it
Right, and so it just became this craze
Yeah, in a sense and in the beginning there wasn't very many
Right. Yeah, and the nature of LA we've talked about this before with seed companies, but the nature of LA
to everybody
To pop up with their own shit nobody down there wanted to give anybody else credit for how they got theirs
Yeah, of course, so the bullshit and the and the stories
Started happening immediately. Yeah, you know and the Bubba just so everybody knows the Bubba that that Matt Bubba brought out
It died by 98
Yeah, the Bubba that everybody has now is not the first Bubba that came to
came out there
Luckily Bubba is is such a specific type and breed so true it probably something similar
But yeah
That's so I mean they found the I believe the story is it might even be somebody like rascal or somebody like that someone found
someone tied in found
bag seed
in original Bubba
Huh? I don't know not sure. No, I
They well
I think the thing is is that and I think that's why it got named Bubba cush because they thought cush
Pollinated the Bubba
Yeah
I think Matt Bubba's story if I remember correctly and I he can correct me on this is that Bubba is a hybrid
Bubba cush is a hybrid of Bubba energy energy cush. Yeah, so the original order lights
So the original Bubba that came out is no more. Yeah, everybody has a little like everybody
Regardless of how you want to believe the story according to Matt who brought it out
They lost the first plant that they called Bubba. Yes, and Bubba cush is a hybrid of that plant
Yeah
Right. Yeah. Yeah, it's a hybrid. That's part of it. And so to get really confusing
Within five or ten years of this plant hitting LA
There was a whole family of what you call pure cush
Right. Yep, Malibu pure cush to paint. I don't onion pure cush. I don't know about all that
I only knew of one pure cush in Southern California and it was called pure cush. It was a LA pure cush
It wasn't fucking there was no Hollywood. No Malibu. No Malibu. No, Jenga
It was called pure cush and it was a lanky ass OG and then there was OG and then there was and then there was
Kush and then those OG Kush and then then all of a sudden there's a there's a there's a valley cut. There's the SFV
There's a Larry there's a this there's a that there's a Bubba and all of a sudden the names start proliferating, right?
Yeah to the point where I don't know by
You know, oh five oh six oh seven
There was probably most the clubs and it was so popular that probably most of what clubs sold in Los Angeles was Kush
Yeah, and there was probably 20 or 30 different cushes on the menu. Yeah, and
So we really don't know how many original things these things started from I mean, yeah, we have a buddy
that that came to
Came to our one of our can illuminati parties, right?
Remember and he was telling the story about about how he had bought a couple of pounds of Kush for 8,000 bucks
Right, and he brought it home and he starts breaking up the weed and a couple of seeds fall out
Yeah, and then he's looking at two seeds
From an $8,000 pound that nobody can get yeah, and so he spent the next two days looking at every bud per seat
And that became I think the poison og. Oh, yeah cost us. Yeah. Yeah, yeah poison, but that's what he said
He said he bought two pounds for 16,000 bucks. That's yeah, he goes dude
I'm just rolling my first joint at home and I hear a seed hit the table and roll and I'm looking at this seed
And I'm like, I just spent a
Grand a pound. Yeah wonder if there's more seeds
What if the weed looks like this? Yeah, and so every every seed, you know, and we have a good buddy
Who got the Kush in 99 we think right? Yeah. Yeah
He's tied into some of the first people outside of outside of Matt and Josh D that got it
Yeah in Los Angeles and it was one of the guys mansion crews
Yeah, and one of the guy and what one of the people intimately involved in running it very early on
and so we heard a lot of a lot of tales from him about
Sort of like how it spread and how it started and what it was like and the politics in the clubs
Right a lot of times clubs would name something
Because they wanted to be the only club with the Louie
Or the only club with the this and he has this funny story
I can't tell it like him and he has a great accent. I could never tell anything like there was some there was some Armenian that
You know, he would always joke about and like he would be like
and yeah, I'd be like
$150,000
That's what he wanted for one rooted snip. Oh, yeah his og that he had. Yeah, right and
you know and so
You know it
Yeah, but imagine paying $8,000 a pound and you find it seeded to him that just meant he was gonna be able to grow
Some of those seeds. Yeah and grow his own $8,000 pounds. Yeah, he was excited as all fucking get up
Yeah, you know he was stoked
Because that gave him away where it's like before it was like there wasn't you think about the demand of LA and how many people?
live in Los Angeles
Yeah, how much wealth there is and when there's only a few garages or a few rooms of these things cracking
It goes fucking lickety-split. Yeah. Yeah, there's way more demand and so changed we
from then on and
Maybe we should take a step back from the story because you know
There's lots of people that like to talk specifics about the origins and how they're tied into it and all that fucking
whatever specific cuts, but what happened is is because that weed was worth so much money and
Because it became so popular in this area that had like 25 million humans. Yeah, and it's sort of like a pop culture
Like you know melting pot for lack of a better term, right? Yeah
Shit blew up and
Then all of a sudden all these different names popped up and everyone wanted to have their own and then what that also started doing
Was because brokers could make more money off cush
They started pushing all these people
800 miles away and Mendocino and Humboldt and stuff County right yeah, so grow weed that they could make more money off
Yep, and they didn't want I mean, you know like my buddy who gave me the flow rider
He didn't do it out of generosity
he did it because I was giving him the super dog and the dog and the Maui and the super skunk and different things and
He had this cush that he could make way better margin on
Yeah, so he was like give me that grow this he didn't tell me he was gonna make way more money
Yeah, I didn't even know that that was the rake down there
Right, but what it did is it pushed a lot of people to start growing similar stuff to feed the market
Yeah
and the purple the purple craze that we talked about before with Caleb and all that that sort of
Started like the do you have this clone only and you better have it and if you have this specific clone only I'll buy all
Your weed and if you don't it's gonna be less than maybe maybe I will maybe I won't yeah, right
And Kush was another wave just like that
Yeah, you could sell every gram of Kush you have and so brokers started going around and started trying to giving there
I mean like who fucking ghost right?
There was people that sold cuts of Kush for thirty to fifty thousand hundred thousand two hundred thousand dollars
Yeah, because ain't it? Yeah, because they could then they could fill rooms with it and it was like an investment
Yeah, there was violence over Kush
Which is how the you know, I mean, I don't really don't really like to tell that story too much
But it does seem like the what I call the 56 day headband. Yep
Started out name named something else in the Kush crew
yeah, and there was some stress and some violence and some whatever and they fled the they fled to the bay and
They wanted to call it something else so they didn't get in trouble for it. Yep, and they chose the name headband
right
You know and then you know, there's a lot of people that oh, well what what cut when we should talk about this, too
I firmly believe that the cut that Josh brought to
LA first with Matt
It's really hard to figure out the lineage
What do you mean as far as like what's actually in it? Yeah, there's a bunch of people that think when they get ghost that
That's it. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah, there's a bunch of people that think when they get 92 og that that's it
There's a bunch of people that think when they pop Josh D OG seeds that it's but forget about that one for a minute
I'm just saying
some people think SFB
Some people think Josh some people think ghost some people think
92 right someone mentioned that earlier again, you know
And our buddy said he doesn't think any of those are it
Yeah
Right. Yeah. So what happened in LA is everybody came up with all these different names
It's not even like there's one SFB. There's a few that float around. Oh, yeah
There's not just one. There's not one top. Oh not one Larry. Yeah, there's multiples
So what you consider is like SFB is it?
There might have been one time when when it was called it but a lot of what's currently circulated right now is that isn't it?
Yeah, and some of the people that bought ghost off ghost like 20 years ago for high dollar
They don't think the ghost cut is it let's get passed around that's not what they got 20 years ago
well
the guy that goes around is ghost now that people talk about is not the same ghost that had the cut and
Traded with Oregon kid for from Michigan. Most people confuse this Kelly guy with the original guy. Yeah
The ghost cut right now isn't the first ghost cut
Yeah, what everybody knows is ghost grow isn't the first ghost that passed the ghost cut who now lives in the Midwest again?
Yeah, I don't even know if ghost grows the same one is the one that was going around calling himself Kelly Cush Farms
That wasn't the Michigan ghost the Michigan ghost
I talked to one of his buddies and he asked to be put back in touch with Oregon kid
And that's the first time I realized that the ghost that was kind of hanging around Oregon kid
Wasn't the same ghost that passed the cut so I put him back in touch
But I don't know what happened from there. So people are people are ripping through the stories or whatever, right? And it's because
The first people that the first people that brought it out sometimes with certain strains you lose chain of custody
Yeah, you know, I mean there was an issue where?
Freaking you know, I don't think Josh will get too mad if I say this but like Josh lost the cut in an accident
And none of his friends in LA wanted to give it back to him
And he had another story and he had to go to a friend in the bay that he had stashed it with to get it
Back. Yeah
Right. Yeah, that's typical weed. Yeah, because people were like, oh it didn't even matter that he was the guy that they got it from
It was profit. Yeah, a lot of these original guys that had it they lost it, right and
And there's an aspect where it's like and I don't mean I'm not saying that like people have fake ghosts
What I'm saying is is that there's four or five cuts out there that all claim to be
The cut that Matt and Josh brought to LA
That's yeah, and they're different and those cuts if you grow them side by side they're not the same cut yeah
Like I don't and I don't mean like not the same cut that they first brought
I mean not the same cut to each other in the same room at the same time. Yeah
So then how you know, how do you know what you know, and nobody called?
9292
Yeah, that that's a more recent adaptation to the name. That's a more recent adaptation the first name
There was no going back to like when it was first around for a number of years. No one called it 92. Yeah
That came later
Yeah, you know and so, you know, we don't people don't know
I don't know if the 92 Hollywood Hills cut is the same as the flow rider
We don't know
Could the flow rider be the exact same cut that Josh brought out to California to LA it could I
Don't know
Yeah, you know I got that one early
But I didn't get the Josh cut early and I didn't get it with provenance that I would know for sure
Yeah, I see people keep asking about the shit shit night in the Kush war that story is a bag of worms
No one wants to touch because nobody has any facts really around it. So I'll leave it alone
But yeah, there's rumors going around that they might have some relation and one
the one that you think would came first might not be the one that actually is
The first one between the two
Yeah
You know, so so there's a lot there's basically I bet there's a bunch of people that have different named ogs out there
that are the same og and
One guys one guys Larry could be another guy's SFB could be another guy sure ghost
Yeah, right because these names became interchangeable and then you start adding names and then you start getting Louie and fire and
You know Diablo and yeah and that is that a dud and there's all the pure Kush names and all those riffs and then there's
The master cushions and two or three of the master cushions look like Bubba cushions
Yeah, and one of them that I used to have was tall and lanky and dark and very stringy
I still think two dogs. I still think to dog has the fucking SoCal master every time I see it
It looks exactly like it
Angels and then yes, I say that vibe, you know
Yeah
you could you could probably name and there was probably a ten-year period where like you could walk into a club and they would have
2025 different names on the menu of Kush. Yeah
Right. Oh, yeah. Yeah some some some collectors out here
We're only oh geez and that was their shit like we only carry. Oh geez, it would be a fucking list of like 40 different
Oh geez, yeah
What's funny is that you know, but fucking dude ghost grow or whatever
He rages because there's people in LA that their entire career has just been learning how to grow Kush
Yeah, and selling it for high dollar. Yeah, and it had such a long
successful popular run before things changed
That some people's entire careers have just been cropping Kush. Yeah
You know
but there's no like there's
So there's this aspect where because it's one of the most famous families of weed out there
yeah, there's an a bunch of origin stories and there's a bunch of claims and
Probably most of the cuts that came out of LA are bad. See ya one would think and
Then sometimes that's what I thought and then sometimes a different crew would get it and they throw a different name on it
Yeah, or just renames and bag seeds. Yeah
Yeah, and then you know, I mean I like Josh or whatever but Josh did this stupid fucking thing where he took he took like
What?
Ha og and and something else and something and crossed it all together and then called it original Josh D
No, that was karma who did that?
That was karma. Yeah, I was karma's doing not not just ease. Yeah. Oh god. Well, then yeah karma can suck it
because
Because it's an obvious play to tie it to
Yeah, you know, yeah use like triangle cushion. Oh, yeah and and ha og and something else
Yeah, yeah
You know, but yeah, and so we never heard when was the first time you even heard the word 90
Did you even hear the term 92 og the first 10 years you heard about og?
I didn't really hear that until like four or five years ago the 92 attachment that specific year
Yeah, and so now people are like, oh, well is this but this should be the first one, right?
It's the 92. It's the one that started it. Yeah
And it's like one of the more recent og names
Yeah, you know, how did the Louie get started? How did the fire get started?
How did this get started like it's hard to find these stories. Yeah, because people don't have a
interest in honesty what they were trying to do is
Sell a different Kush for a high dollar. Oh, there you go. Yeah, you go nature farm has all those old something
And they aren't dudded. There you go. So now, you know, you know, yeah
He's got KNF cures duds. I've seen his movie. Yeah, we've seen his movie. He's got everything you want
You know, he doesn't do any like negative testing or anything like that, but you know, he just knows he's just got a sense
You know
But yeah fire og is rascal SFB or maybe fire og to somebody else is something different
Fire og is a clone
It came out of a tray of clones and it was it
I don't know which specific og it was but and I don't think he was told anything more than og and it was fire
So he called it fire og. That was it and then later on
Swerve made a cross of fire og and something else remember correctly and called it rascal og
Yeah, and so it's one of those things that one of the biggest things about og is that og og and sour?
But especially og are is probably one of the first strains that like it just dominated
breeding and hybrids for so long
Yeah
You know and what's interesting is like for a long time
Maybe we should talk about this for a second, but for a long time
people would work ogs and they would breed with ogs and they would s1 them and
Kind of the best Fino would be the one that looked like mom. Yeah
Right. Yeah, it was really weird. It was like you wouldn't find a bunch of shit
and the good ones would be the ones that look exactly like the parent and
then Caleb
reversed the TK and
He got a much wider variety of cool Fino's
Yeah, and he found ghost in there and he found he found ones that looked like a lot of popular ones
And that's that's like one of those ways for a breeder if you're a breeder to know that you have like
You have a mother type situation of a bunch of other cuts is when you s1 it and you're seeing all those
sister and brother Fino's popping out of what you just
Made and that's how you kind of get the idea that triangle might be the the predecessor
So it's it's interesting because if if you know if there was bag seed and there was multiple
Kush strains found in that bag seed. Yeah, and the initial bag seed would probably be a hybrid maybe right?
And you know, it seems like there's there's at least one
Maybe a few cush is out there that throw much wider Fino's than most of them
Yeah, so it almost leads it it almost leads you to believe that a lot of these cush is our lucky bag seeds
Yeah that people found and named but because it's an s1 of cush already
It kind of looks like itself for the most part
Yeah, it's one of the it's one of the reasons why Caleb and I believe that the chem dog the 91 itself might be an s1
Yeah, because it throws such a narrow band
Yeah of Fino's
There's a bunch of physically it doesn't look very different
potency wise it can vary
Quite a bit in some flavor. Yeah, but there's a really narrow band of physical expression
Yeah, and a lot of cushes are like that
Yeah, probably because they're bag seed, yeah, you know and it's also interesting too that like
You know, I mean the the two of the most famous strains out there
The cush and the sour diesel neither one of them reverse very easily. Yeah
There's a lot of failure with those
Right. Yeah. Yeah, they suck. They suck. So a lot of times a lot of times things get reversed on to them
Yeah
You know, that's that's usually how it goes
I don't leave the only real ogs
I'm seeing people like regularly reverse or og hybrids and they
Have to get lucky and find something that'll reverse well
But most of these old og cuts be it, you know bag seed to bag seeds and we're finding that like s2s s3s shit like that
Doesn't reverse well for whatever reason it's really hard to reverse like a
Multiple self or multiple bag seed generations and that makes sense for og it makes sense for a lot of these ogs
You know, so it's like yeah, they ended up getting outcrossed and then people would would reverse some of them looking for better shit
And the best shit that they would find was the shit that looked like the shit. They already had. Yeah, and
I got kind of over og because while I think it is an amazing strain and I'm not here trying to diss it or anything
Like that. I don't think that its genetic expression is wide enough that you would need to keep 20 different ones
Yeah, and you're like this one's earthy. This one's lemony. This one has a slight hint of this. This one's more tennis balls
This one's darker, you know, yeah
Look at that Matt. Someone wants you to s1 the hogs breath. Yeah, I've done it before I'll do it again
I haven't I haven't I haven't run it again. Once I started getting past I dropped it. So somebody asked an interesting question
Why does s2 and s3 and all that get harder?
Because what happens is is you're selfing so there's only one set of genes and so every time you self you
Increase the propensity of recessive traits that are negative to be able to pop
Yeah, right. And so the deeper you go into selfing the more narrower you're putting the genetic pool
Yeah, and that's when issues start happening
That's why there's rules against
For humans, you're not allowed to bang your sister or your first cousin go well or your mom or your uncle or you tell you
Yeah, this shit sucks bro, yeah, I mean it took out the whole royal families of Europe yeah, they needed some outcrossing
Yeah, they kept selfing essentially almost yeah
So that's why and then and then you know as things get more narrow a lot of times s3 s4
It starts getting a lot weaker
It starts getting a lot more prone to lack of vigor
stress other aspects and there's a lot of regular breeding
There's a lot of regular breeding that uses selfing
Successfully, but it does your culture in normal agriculture. Absolutely. Selfing is a massively used technique with great success
Yeah in cannabis, it seems to have negative connotations taken
Maybe maybe people have a different idea. But for me at least
what it seems like selfing the biggest thing is is because most of the things that we have are our
Individual cuts and not seed lines anymore. Yeah, it allows you to see what else is in the genetics besides that one expression
Yes
You know if if you had you know
100 seeds of what og kush came out of and it was males and females you'd have a line
Yeah, but if you have a cut
Then how do you how do you see what it is pure not outcrossed? Yeah
So a lot of times I mean Caleb talks all the time
Like if people are looking for consistency in in in seed then the way to go is some of his out crosses
yeah, a lot of the
the
Feminized hybrids. Yeah, well, I'm a nice hybrid
If you're looking for specific phenos, but you're willing to tolerate more junk yeah go to the s-1s
Yeah, but the s-1s are gonna have a certain amount of recessive stuff in there. That's undesirable. Yeah, does it bread with itself?
So the out crosses, you know urkel reversed on to kush would will be more consistent than urkel on to urkel
that's why again why like when I talk about the blue bonnet and
Despite what was said about it that it was a pure blueberry line
I still think to this day that it's hybrid because all those recessive traits that blueberry usually carries
When you further inbreed it are gone completely erased
And I talked before about how I didn't like the the pure blue lines very much at all
Yeah, yeah, but then you out cross them to different other amazing things and those kids
Came out way better than the parent in my opinion exactly
And I think it just it's I think it was massive inbreeding going on in such a small environment and the constant
crossing of two
two distinctly different
Expressions like crossing indica to sativa or whatever
Most people don't breed like that. They breed in this direction. Most people don't keep constantly in
crossing two different types through generations and that that caused some weird inbreeding to go on and and and
Not all the best traits to be a parent DJ is really unusual, dude
because if you believe him what he says he basically took four plants and
Never added anything else. Yeah. Yeah, and
Everything that he has comes from those four plants. Yeah, right. It was like a
Oregon purple tie and a juicy fruit tie and an ant and an Afghani
Yeah, and maybe something else or that's it
The the Oregon purple tie was chocolate I will hawk and gold so it's like yeah
Yeah, okay count those two if you count those two it's four
Yeah, exactly, you know and then a lot of times all those things were only used once
According to him never never back crossed to again or reintroduced and he just lied and he just worked within the lines
Yeah
And so, you know Camara
Camara has talked about how he kind of used all of DJ's stuff is this big mangled inbred?
Specific thing. Yeah, but at least that's cool because you never mixed anything else into it
Yeah, but that's really unusual
It is it's everything about how he made
Agree like I spent I spent several thousand dollars on on those specific seeds and I had to really work to find
Things that were good blueberry turps because that just wasn't what I was seeing in the line. I told you I ran
440-450 of four of his lines. Yeah, you know and
I wish I was bragging about keepers
Yeah, but you know like I wouldn't have loop on it without those lines
So there's great potential in those lines, but I think like you said, it's it's in the hybridization
I really it's in the hybridization, you know
It's kind of like that thing with like, you know
The closest thing that we have to a to an actual IBL people throw around IBL all the time. It drives. Yeah nine nuts
Yeah, I BL swing it. Yeah, right because an IBL is essentially something that's been bred so consistently that it just is what it is
Yeah, it is what it is. Everything's looking like clones of each other from Sam
Everything looks like clones of each other
So if you have that kind of ideal where you're trying to grow fields of exact replicas
It might be a good tech if
You want to breed all of the genetic diversity out of your shit and everything that you cross with it is gonna look like it
Yeah, then, you know fuck
Yeah, you know, but I mean that that G that 88 g13 hash plant kind of throws
Phenos that are just like it. Yeah, it's junk you cross things the Jeep chunk and it's very deep chunk ish
Yeah, yeah
Gene did point out that like there are so I
When I refer to IVL's I do think a deep chunk because visually it is it is very uniform
I mean, there's like two phenos like to
Visually
expressive phenos that look
distinct but when you smoke it some have a much better high than the others so true and that
When I was speaking about it
I was only speaking visually when it when in fact a true IVL would be for all traits across the board
But that's why I drive Matt nine nuts because there are no IVL's in cannabis. Yeah, you just can't
I don't and so and so an IVL is basically something breeds true for all traits
Yeah, and all the seeds are gonna be very narrow within that tiny little band. Yeah, you can have a true breeding strain
That's only true breeding for one trait. Yeah like the body
It's true breeding for blueberry turps and that's it, right?
Or you know, you could have you could have something like skunk one. That's true breeding for you know
Improving calyx to leaf ratio or yeah, you know bud structure or this or that
But it has a variety of turps or you know things in it, you know
So true breeding and IVL is like the furthest example of true breeding. It's like when all the characteristics are the same
Yeah, and true breeding is just one or more of the characteristics you can count on seeing in the project
Yeah, so when someone the other day I can't recall who it was
it was I think was a lady was saying that um
That they have an f2 IVL and people are like what the fuck that doesn't make any sense
And that lady was like no it makes sense. It doesn't make sense to have an f2 IVL. It's not possible
No, and so there's a lot of terms that are thrown around IVL is the worst one because yeah
You should be able to buy a hundred seeds of an IVL and see less than 2% variation
Yeah
and I think I think
what where the miscommunication is is that a line being inbred is not the same thing as an inbred line and
Line breeding is not the same thing as an IVL, you know
IVL so specific and line breeding and in breeding in a line
Don't denote an IVL. It is a process to getting towards an IVL
But I think that's where a lot of confusion lies
Yeah, if there's if there's a bunch of variation of any traits at all in your weed, it's not an IVL. Yeah
You know
IVL is basically a way to an agriculture to grow clones of each other from seed stock. Yeah, that's its goal
Yeah, so, you know if you're gonna grow an IVL for weed
It's like you're gonna breed all the cool shit out of it
It's not gonna be worth breeding with once it's an IVL for the most part because it's gonna have such a narrow range
It's gonna make everything look like itself
Yeah, and so hope you know, so if you made an IVL, maybe it would be just you know
If it was something that was just so incredible, but it probably be a bunch of work
Yeah, it'd probably be a bunch of work and it would suck. Yeah, you know realistically speaking and it's in cannabis
Another reason it's very hard to to make IVLs is because males express different than females
Even if they are the same expression males are always even if they're the same
General phenotype they the male always grows taller than the female so they don't look identical
So trying to choose the male expression of a female line that you want to find is very fucking hard to do
Yeah, that's why it's much easier and faster to do it through selfing and there's an aspect to where someone was like
Well, what if you just picked a really good plant to IVL?
That's assuming that all those traits
Will be the dominant trait the more that you breed inbreed into itself and you're not gonna lose them by inbreeding. Yeah
You know
You know, so so there's an aspect there where it's like it someone just said that's a good question
I missed whatever the question was. I was trying to look for it just now
I don't know if Matt if you can find it or someone wants to
You know
The whole thing there is no cubed term
The only motherfucker that ever used the term cute like like the c99 really cube. That was a mr.
Soul thing that was sort of his his own terminology for
Wheels slow down. Oh my god, but yeah, there's no cubing was just like he found some bag seed
And he started inbreeding it to itself a bunch
You know
Which was already probably inbred and yeah, it's not only lock-in shitty traits
It's like, you know, one of the reasons why they don't want you to bang your sister
is because the shit that happens to you when you start breeding humans too close is a lot of
Mental issues physical issues various kinds of things start popping up that in normal humans are never dominant
Yeah, but if you inbreed enough you can combine those two not dominant genes and it'll pop dominant
Oh
That question he said what about this isn't this real question?
What about recombinant inbred line like Tony Green and GG for I am I can't even answer that like without laughing stop guys
You know, I think that's a guy who is talking shit about Caleb and said he was it like f12 or some fucking
There's an aspect where it's like let's let's let's be honest
It's like there's a lot of there's a lot of terms that get loosely applied to cannabis
Yeah
and they're not that well understood and it's not anybody's fault because it's not like there's seminars on this shit and a lot of
information gets passed through friendships and
A lot of times some of those friendships like aren't passing the most reliable information about things. Yeah
Right. Yeah, you know
That's what it is
And they're hoping that people don't know what the term means and it sounds like they've done work if they put stupid-ass terms at the
End of it f12
Like if you really think that some dude that's been around not that long
Is it f12 and you do not understand breeding or how long it takes to make it through?
Generations and to do real breeding to make sure that generation is correct
And if you've made an error to go back to the previous generation keep working because you're never gonna hit it
Right twelve times in a row guaranteed
So implying that he has worked something like twelve generations
It is asinine to people actually do that and there's friends of ours that are breeders that are like dude
I had this awesome line and then I did this thing to it and I didn't end up keeping
Enough seed from before I did that thing. Yeah, and then I fucked it up
To get rid of that seed and go one to two gens back and go in a different direction
But I didn't keep the seed and I fucked it up and it's not as good as it was before
And I can't make it the way it was before because I didn't keep that gen. So it's basically like a misstep
Yeah, right you can make a mistake if you don't save if you don't save seed from every single rip
You know and when people say f2 f3 f4
I mean what that means is that you're supposed to grow a bunch of seed pick males and females
Yeah, right that exhibit traits that you want cross them and then breed them
Okay, here's a question and I'm gonna address it just because me and me and CSI were talking about like an hour ago
All right before we started this anyways
but it's crossing an elite to an elite breeding or pollen chucking I
Consider regular breeding like using a male
I consider that vacation and taking days off like that is the easiest shit to do
You don't have to do anything. You just they they make their seeds themselves. You don't have you might have to shake it around
That's about it
breeding using
Reversal techniques is a lot more
Involved it's it's a lot more unpredictable
You can make a lot more errors a lot real fast
I mean you could you could take something and isolate it and make it more true breeding really fast
But you can also make huge errors right away and very rarely
Does a pollination go where you can just like get something and shake it in a reversal and the seeds make themselves?
That's just doesn't really happen that often a lot of times you have to get in there with
Fucking tweezers tweeze out of each one shake the fucking pollen out half of that shit won't be good
And it's just because that's that's how it goes
So there's an aspect to which I should mention and that's the reason why match said you're not gonna hear 12
12 readings that all makes sense
And what he means by that is that let's say you're at f3 and you grew up a bunch of f3s and you're ready to
make your f4s and
Then you realize that you don't like that combo. Yeah, and you want to go back one generation earlier and try again
Yeah, because you didn't like that selection
So yeah, you're like in order to get to f12 that means 12 times you would have to grow up seeds
Like what you see yeah females and males of each one
Cross them together
Grow up their children and just keep doing that and every single time every single f gen you're like fuck
Yeah, I won. Yeah, fuck. Yeah, I'm good for a lot of times
You're gonna get somewhere and be like oh that went in direction
I don't like that nearly as much as the f4 this at 5 sucks. I gotta go back to f4 again
I I did a green crack the x1 and
I you know, I was one of the early growers and breeders with green crack. I love that fucking strain
I don't know why it's just nice and mango. It was really beautiful purple. I'm sucker for purples
But in the bx1 I crossed it to and actually I've done a few but the one that I ran with was the platinum banana
og as the male from it and out crossed to that back to the green crack and
All I found was a lot of platinum banana og plants and not many green cracks
And I didn't expect that because usually green crack breeds dominant
But that was one of those cases where it's like, okay, even though it's a bx1 and it sounds like it should be super green
Cracky, that's not how it played out in in practice. It was only in theory
So it kind of was an epic fail and this is why breeding is such a bitch
Because you spend all this time and energy doing it and then you're like, oh, I don't like that that choice
Back to that run go back go back, you know, go, you know slide slide back down and start over
Yeah
And so there's a lot of missteps and there's a lot of things that you hope will happen
Like I'm gonna take this and cross it to this and I'm hoping these traits come together and you and then you're like
Oh, that's a horrible. Yeah, I got her back up
And that's why so many people just like to make one one off out crosses to different things
Not test it and just release it and just move on to something else
Yeah, because you can spend a bunch of time dicking around
And that's it so much time
I mean there was there's an aspect where Bodhi was telling me when when he first got the 88 g13
hash plant right
from
Ndn guy seeds. Yeah
He didn't realize that they were already f4
Yeah, so he kept the first he kept males and females of the first round and didn't lose him
But then he took it three more gens
Yeah, right and it got shittier and shittier every gen. Yeah, and what he ended up using
Was the very first seeds that he popped from the initial seeds that he got yeah
And that's what it and that's what's in all those hybrids that people buy from him is
Because those those moms and dads made way better crosses
Yeah, than any of the intentional work he did after because he thought he was getting it kind of raw
So he's like, oh open pollinated a couple times and I love it
But yeah, yeah, you know and he spent all this time three doing going three gens. That's a lot of time
That is a lot of time a lot of effort. It's not rewarded
Yeah, and then you're like and then he's like each one of these gen sucks ass and I'm not gonna use them
Yeah, I'm just gonna stick with this first shit. I have over here. Yeah, I could have saved myself a year
Yeah
You know and so that shit happens and I can guarantee you
after being in this business this long that
What's what's sad and what a lot of people have noticed that that are in this business is that they're the how quickly things sell
It how much work you put into it has no reliance on that. It's all in the name. It's all in the hype
It's all in that kind of stuff. So there's no real reward to putting in all that extra work to then fail and
Spend a lot of money doing it or to then succeed and still not be able to outsell something else that's being hyped
So when people when people make comments about like I don't see you braiders doing long work anymore. There's a reason it's just not
Actually viable anymore and as bad as it sucks to hear that as bad as it sucks to say it
That's where it's at and that's why most readers if you were to ask them
like, you know to like
People breed and they put in a bunch of crosses and then they make a bunch of packaging and stuff and I'm not dissing it
By any means, but I'm just saying that they don't have time to test every round of everything
You just can't anymore before release
You know, it's not it's not it's not feasible
You know
You can you might look through the things that you're the most interested in always but yeah and see and be like
Oh, I really want to see what's in this hybrid, you know
Even that is the minimum I can think of like
Seven people that do even that much, you know, I mean, it's very it's very difficult. And then there's an aspect where
You know, I mean Matt and I when we were researching like I guess you'd call it last season's podcast that we were doing
And we were doing a bunch of nevel work
You could go through the sensei catalog from 91 to 95 and it barely changed. Yeah
Barely at all just little tiny things barely changed, you know some some names here and there one or two things
But maybe in five years they added three or four things to the catalog. Yeah
Right and
now
It's like people come out with 20 or 25 new strains every crop every time they make make a drop
Yeah, a lot of the times and then when they make another drop six months later. It's a totally different set of shit. Yeah
So it's become vastly different people used to be able to get away with Simon from serious seeds
For 20 years he sold six things. Yeah, right. I don't work no more white Russian
chronic
ak
Collie mist bubble gum and
One more
One more than I'm forgetting. Yeah. Anyway, he sold six he sold six lines
Yeah, and he made those six lines over and over a no I said a K I think but we can look it up
But there maybe I think it was six
It was six
Five off the top of my head. It was six for sure
It was six but you know 15 years of just making I'm gonna make these same hybrids again. Yeah, I'm gonna make them
I'm gonna make them I'm gonna make them I'm gonna make them and it was like they didn't have to change that much since he's
Catalog the first five or six years was pretty consistent and then the last three or four years in the 90s
They added four five or six more things. Yeah
But then it stayed consistent after that
Yeah, and now it's like that's not what breeders or growers or anyone expects it's got to be all new shit
Yep. Yeah, I mean even with me early on I would like to clock the clockwork orange
I'd always keep that in stock and like the white Russian big ones. I think you did say that maybe I
Don't know. Yeah, I don't know but it kept it in stock man over the years
You realize that's not even viable to do anymore because people want new and now and new and now at all times
And not everyone obviously, but the the majority of the seed people buying seeds
That's how it goes
And if you don't do that you it's not a viable company anymore
And so Matt and I laughed because we read all this stuff about what people think
Breeders act most a lot of breeders are actually doing. Yeah versus what they actually do
Yeah, and they're like, oh these guys are testing this and that and they're looking for herms and they're looking for this and they're doing this
And that and they're making choices and selections and they're
Not most of them. Yeah, because the the most profitable way right now to make seeds is just to like blow off a room
Do you know collect the seeds? I think it's even worse than that
I think the most profitable way to make seeds like with compound and guys like that they buy seeds from other people already made and
Label them something they're hyping
There's a bunch of stuff that goes on with like people would be shocked to know
There was you know, how many how many of their like some of their favorite Cali people got their seeds made in Spain, yeah
Yeah
You know or I had some dude that they know that has a tent make seeds and act like they're blowing up their facilities
Yeah, yeah
And so there's a lot of there's a lot of fakery there
You know and people eat it up and they've realized that they with IG and what these things they can control the narrative and hype
And people never see behind the screen door
Yeah, and so the amount that they think that they're
yeah, most aren't even germ testing most aren't even taking a hundred or two hundred seeds and
Spending two or three days and making sure they get a good pop rate. Yeah. No, and that's what fucked candy rain
They didn't pop, you know, and he sold them they sold them for like 800 bucks a piece
Or 800 bucks a pack or something like that, you know
And but so there's all these things that they think they're breeders are like these mad scientists like really putting in the work
And most and that's how they present themselves
Yeah, and then the people that do put in work and but don't show it that much for various reasons
They get called out for being the big guys that aren't doing the work. Yeah all the time and you're like dude your hero is
Like paying some kids to do the work
while doing photo ops
Well while ordering half of it from Dean FM in Spain
Right, yeah, and you think he's been carefully working on it for the past 12 12 months. Yeah, you know
And he's just putting his name on it
It's literally a re-label. Yeah, so it goes how it goes, you know, and and there's not a lot of pressure
So I'm not and so it's just and there so what Matt was basically saying is that there's not incentive
or for financial survival for most people to do
What the customer base would like them to do? Yeah
In my opinion. Yeah. No, there isn't it's just not there. It's not there anymore
Unfortunately, it used to be there and I think a lot of us would rather just quit them
Join the stupid shit for age. Yeah, I mean think about it for a minute, you know, think about how many people out there
Can do what our buddy CSI does?
Yeah, which is show pictures of rooms regularly of what was running and show pictures of seeds that he made
That there's 200 phenols growing in a room
Yeah, you know and you can go years and years and years back of he hasn't he hasn't popped everything he's made. That's crazy
yeah, but he's constantly popping stuff that he's made and
Looking through it and that kind of dedication is like uber rare
You know
it's like him and a few other and you know a few other people and
Some hobbyists who are doing it for love
And most of the famous people know
Yeah, no
Definitely not because it's just not financially feasible and they don't have the space and they don't really have any goals either
They're trying to just make a bunch of money off a seed drop
Yeah, Caleb Caleb. I can guarantee you will
Spend every dime doing it right because he's so OCD and autistic about he gets it done
And it's very admirable. He also his favorite part of the whole process is seeing what's in the hybrids he makes
Oh, yeah. Yeah, that's actually testing. That's actually the part that keeps him going
The rest of it is kind of a soul-drenching grind. Yeah, but that he gets excited about yeah
I've never met a man more excited about genetics and seeds than that man
And it's it's it's fucking awesome because he's one of the him and not so and and a few of our other friends
There's an only people that I've ever met that I can sit there and nerd out with like that and dork out for hours
On the phone and just talk about genetics and and our wives all hate it. I'm sure yeah
I actually have a buddy who just mentioned it me too. He's I have a buddy who's like as old of a seed weird
Breeder and he's like I'm gonna go to the dentist
Weird
Breeder interested in the process as you'd ever meet
There are people scattered throughout Mendo and humble here and there
They've never been a majority anywhere. Yeah, it's definitely a weird offshoot
Yeah, I want to have I want to have Uranus come on sometime and talk to you
So I know he's a big fucking nerd like us
He he is, you know, so a bunch of my friends. It's like even fucking Caleb. It's like there's people that aren't comfortable talking in
Public as much yeah, it's a hard thing kind of yeah
I do believe you know because you're live like in person just sitting around with a couple buddies smoking joints and shooting the shit if
You could capture that it's amazingly conversational. Oh, yeah
Yeah
That's why it's like the party is like even even for me to sit back and watch everyone like
Talk genetics and it's like I'd like even some of the people like everybody that was involved with OG Kush except for
Big Ricky was it one of them, you know, like everybody but him was there and you could
Oh, yeah, listen to all of them talk all at once
Everybody that people should know the guy that's famous for Irene rude boy, you know, he came out with his whole crew one night
Yeah, that was fucking cool
Yeah
her and brought his herb and we had our you know, we sat around and we saw we shot the shit, you know and
Exchanged a bunch of stories and you know confirmed a bunch of things and you know, so yeah
Not so it does not need to grow mustache dude. I mean the thing is about mustaches, right? I'll just say this
Okay, and this this is no prejudice whatsoever. I'm 46. Okay
Yeah, when I was in my 20s and 30s
I would say the only people that had mustaches were like police firemen and gays
Yeah, there was no dudes just now it's back in style and there's a bunch of like 20 somethings or whatever just rocking massive
70 stashes and shit, but it was like it went out of style like the station wagon
Yeah for a while. Yeah, and he looks like a he literally looks like a Tom of Finland character when he has the full
Superdog let's do super dog before we're done super dog. Okay, we are getting close to being done
But I will people but we're bugging so I will give a brief synopsis of super dog
So yeah, let's do it Matt sent me some stuff that like blew my head off about super dog
In some forum posts and stuff like that that we won't get into yeah, but needless to say
I
think what happened is is that there's a
There's a few versions and there's a few things that happened over time
Right and my buddy who I never mentioned. I just call him Staten Island
It's mostly it's a it's a it's a bunch of it's it's a bunch of his story really but yeah
You know the story starts I guess with he gave the super skunk to
Chem dog to Greg. Yeah, right and
in 93 ish I think and
94 ish Greg calls him up and he's super excited because the super skunk had affirmed on to the chem doc
Right, and he got a bunch of seed and he grew this seed up and he said this seed is so amazing
I'm growing this stuff instead of the chem doc
It's unbelievable, right? Yeah, and so
There was this aspect where get where my buddy's that and Island thought
Okay
Maybe we could blend these two things together
Yeah, but we didn't know shit he didn't know shit about STS or reversals or anything like that back there, right?
Yeah, this is so pre pre that it's unbelievable. So yeah
homie
3,000 miles away just had an accident and got some seat
Yeah, and so homie out here thought maybe I'll have an accident. Maybe you'll do this
but he basically started the project and he took a
Hawaiian plant and crossed it to the super skunk cut
Yeah, and then he got a he got like a super skunk line for lack of a better term
Yeah, right bread that a couple of times and
then he took a he took some mails of that and
Tossed it on the we tossed it on the the chem 91
Yeah, and the super dog was born
right
And I was helping him a little bit in the middle of that and then him and I worked together on
Hunting through a bunch of super dog itself
Right and doing further out crosses
So there was some stuff on the East Coast
That might have had a similar name that came about in a very different fashion
You know, but no get the fuck out of here. Yes. You know what? I'm gonna tell I'm gonna tell one real quick story
So I I was obsessed with finding that super dog cut because I was a big fan of Jaisal and
Supposedly they were similar genetics. What was chem 91 super skunk?
Supposedly one was supposedly chem D super skunk according to the Canada Bible at the time
So I had already had Jaisal and I loved it and the super dog really interest me and and I wasn't sure if maybe they
Got it wrong and it's the same cut. So I remember asking Greg back then chem dog
About it and he kind of inferred that he had bred it and then I saw another post today where he again inferred
He bred it. So
the fact that it was the same genetics as your guys's out in the West Coast and
There's still no pictures
No provenance nothing for it and every time I ask for any info about it all I get you and with Jaisal as well
I'll still all I get is let me check my notes and
And I like to do a lot I like him dog a lot he's a good dude I've met his wife she's really cool
But yeah, that's that's as far as I can get with it. I do think in my opinion, I think
They didn't know much about super dog
They heard about it and that he may have taken credit for it back then and it was probably what was going on with
Gabby and you yeah
So we did a bunch of work on it and it took us a week
You know, it's like there's a lot of projects like that where when you don't have some specific goal in terms of like timing or anything
It's like we popped off a rip here and then four months later six months later
We did another stage of it over here. And then you know, it's kind of like that. You're doing it along while you're growing and
We ended up what happened is what most people what most people know of is we started picking Fino's like the seven the three the 30
There's some pictures of it in the can of Bible, yeah, I started spreading it around I started giving out
Selected cuttings the friends and we crossed it. There was a time when we did, you know, we were trying to do
I
Don't know what you'd call it. It's not quite open pollination
Okay, but we basically took out of out of hundreds of seeds. We took like our four or five favorite males
Yeah combined with about seven or eight of our favorite females
Yeah, and we put them in a room and we bloomed them and then we threw in
literally
every good cutting that we had at the time so
Actual chem 91 actual super skunk the warlock my black dominica the Maui
the the Mendo perps
The creepy
The creepy no, no, we didn't have this was before I didn't have a cush
yeah, I didn't have a cush quite yet or anything like that, but
But we so we did basically just like it was like bread amongst itself
Yeah, and then we bread it to like every fire cut we had at the time
Go ahead good. Oh my gosh. Um, so, you know, I uh
That one totally distracted me but I am I
Did that herbalist I did do that one. That's the what I call the skunk spray cam line and that's the only other one besides
the airline Afghani line that I
Consistently can can make skunky shit come out of really easily
So, I mean, you know, he doesn't really like to chat in public or whatever, but he probably uh
My buddy from Staten Island is probably should get the most credit for the super dog because he put the most time into it
Him and I did do projects with it together
And then it was the projects that him and I were doing together
That ended up getting spread out and getting photographed and getting traded to people and that's kind of I think where
It started popping up on the forums. Yeah, and people started talking about it and seeing it
I gave a bunch of super dog hybrids to
Mandelbrot
And that's kind of the basis of the males that he started with his emerald emerald mountain seed company and all that
So that so it started it got it got mixed into some other things that are pretty famous, too
But we won't go into that right here
But it was what we were trying to do is we were trying to get the density and the potency
of the chem 91
Yeah combined with
Combined with
The the color and the crystal content and the nose of the skunk
Yeah, so we wanted potency and density from over here
And we wanted a little bit better looks and frost and turps from over here
Yeah
And it worked pretty well. It's it's it was killer, you know, and honestly it probably would have it probably would have taken off a bunch
more if
the purple and then kush
And diesel craze hadn't started
Where everyone wanted to grow the exact same strains to get the dollar
Yeah for sure
You know, um
Yes, the super dog would have been in in dispose in 2001 in the bay 100
uh, that would definitely be an era that uh
There would definitely be an era where you could have gotten a lot of super dog went to the bay
a whole bunch
You know, um, and you know, uh
Uh
You know i've talked before about how we lost it and some of the different things and been hunting for it for a long time
um it uh
You know it exists in a bunch of children
um, and you know
Skunk and chem seem to be a great combo
Yeah
In general, I know I know that at least in 2000
I'll say 11 or 12
That maui super dog was still being grown up north that weird. I don't know if you know carnac the weirdo
Yeah, oh dude, so there's there's phenos
I have friends from trinity county that grew for years and their boss. His favorite strain was a maui super dog. Yeah
Uh a maui super dog hybrid
um
You know some of the maui super dog, uh, mandelbrot wrote about it a bunch
But he found out of seeds that I gave him something. He ended up calling the truth
Yeah, yeah, which was maui by super dog that just a straight maui by super dog
So I think bitter is still holding that cut for you too, by the way
And so there's there's a number there's a number of phenos of that that float around
Yeah, and there's some other stuff we won't get into right now because that's a whole nother movie where it's in
Um, so it's it's it's blended into different things
Um, but it's one of those gigs where it's like weed reinvents itself every five or ten years
Yeah, and people only like to grow what's easy and popular and it would probably knock people's socks off today
But it came out at a time when it wasn't able to get as famous
Yeah
You know because it was coming out in 2000 2001 2002 2003, you know, it's just that was just like a different era
Yeah, things didn't get like naturally hyped very easily. Well, it just couldn't spread
Yeah people that couldn't communicate as much uh clones didn't spread as much there wasn't clone trading going on very much there wasn't clone mailing
anything like that, you know, so
um, so there's an aspect to that that
Someone's asking if you uh, what did you all find out? Did you find a line on anything that you thought was lost recently?
not so
That I thought was lost. Yeah, I mean I uh, there's you know
We did get something that I considered to be the trinity
or at least
You know extremely extremely close to the the right cut, you know
Um, and we that was lost for 15 or 18 years to us
And i'm still not sure if it's the exact right thing
Um, but if it's even the people that seem to think it might be not
Think it's incredibly closely related
Yeah, like it on s1 or you know something like that, but I think it's the real one
um, and now what gets hard is that
Uh, because old things are becoming popular again. Everyone's coming out of the woodwork with old things
Yeah
Back that goes back to the fucking question that dude had about a smear campaign. I absolutely consider diesel
chem skunk weed
Yes. Yes 100
Yeah
To me diesel and sour diesel and all that is is chem is is chem skunk blend
Okay
Before we close it down. I want uh, someone wanted you to talk about francine. They kept they kept mentioning it
Francine was an extremely tasty indica
um, and obviously that's the that's the cut that facilitated the the trade for the super skunk, um, and uh,
My buddy ended up we ended up letting it go
because like a lot of
Amazing afghans, uh, it had horrific rot issues. Yeah
And it could it could grow all these big beautiful colas
And then there'd be gray rot running up the center stem. Yeah, and a lot of people had fine had had issues with
Breeding a lot of early afghans because afghans bred in rot
Yeah, because they grew up in a in a dry cold afghan environment and then they get brought to like moderate sort of humid
california at times
And they just they just couldn't handle it. Yeah, so it was it's one of those things where it's part of the lore
But it was intentionally dropped for issues
And it was dropped long before any of us thought that any of this weed that we were growing would matter
Yeah, i'm sure
too, you know
so
Um, so yeah, I mean we've now been talking two hours and six minutes. Yeah
Well, it's probably we try to keep it two hours every friday, you know, yeah
So maybe now it's a good time if matt if you want to do any plugs or anything like that. Oh, yeah, so, uh
Go to google type in breeder syndicate patreon if you want to go join us on their patreon
Um, we're probably watching fights tomorrow
um
And yeah, we're always on there shooting shit ask us questions there join in
and we
Probably gonna have some contests coming up. That'll be fun. Um, check out speakeasy
They help us produce the podcast and the audio version. So go check them out show them support
All my stuff's right at zco.com
um
We didn't get to not so manscaping. So i'm kind of owned about that indeed
Yeah, it's probably a it's probably a two or a three part show, you know
At least at least it needs props and pictures all kinds of stuff
And and just in general in general two or three parts. Yeah, two or three parts. Yeah
So anyway, thank you all for your friday night as always
As always for me give suggestions give give ideas reach out to us dm things you want to hear about
um, yeah, this is all about us chatting and interacting and stuff, so
Uh, but again, thanks for the friday night
Have a great day
night
