Yadda dadda dadda dadda dadda.
La da da da da da da.
La da da da da da da da.
Dabba dabba dab da da.
Dabba dabba dab da da.
Dabba dabba dab da da.
Alright, back inside.
Yeah, my neighbors would look at me fucking weird.
I bet they thought I was just taking a selfie with Mr. Murray here.
They're like, oh dang, he's gonna lock it up with Murray.
Let's see if we can get this...
It's pretty dark in here.
There we go.
Anyway, let's get to some real questions.
Uh, something worthwhile.
Something worth putting out there.
Dabba dabba dab.
There we go.
Alright, hit me with some questions, fellas.
Oh, here we go, here we go.
Here's JJ New York.
Let's bring him in.
Still says connecting, hasn't connected yet.
Hey, JJ!
Hey, what's up?
Oh, your phone has a lag with the audio.
Try again.
Let me see if I can move into a better spot.
You're a little better.
You got better?
Yeah. What's up, brother?
Yeah, I'm packing things and I gotta go upstairs.
Yeah, get by an internet connection.
Always works the best.
What's going on?
Not much, just dealing with the normal shit.
You know how it goes.
So, um, yeah, there's a couple things I wanted to talk to you about.
Let's do it.
One being the Jeezel.
Jeezel.
Jeezel is super skunk chem D, to my knowledge.
Correct.
You stated it was super skunk, I think.
It could be a super skunk S1, we don't know, because there's no chem D coming out of the progeny at all in any of the S1s.
Or a super skunk that came out of a chem D mother, though.
A chem D flower.
I was told by Greg that it came out of the super skunk flower that the chem D herned.
I thought I was told the opposite, but maybe I'm wrong.
Either one of us could be wrong.
Greg didn't keep good notes, as we know.
Right, right.
And that's from those guys, you know, him and the weasel.
Both, you could ask the same question twice and get two different answers.
That's a fact, dude.
Right.
But have you grown the mass super skunk?
No, I have never grown mass super skunk, never had it.
Okay.
Because, you know, with the speculation that the mass super skunk is with the sour diesel, I kind of have a couple discrepancies about that.
Because the mass super skunk, if you ever grown it, it grows kind of medium height and it's a single cola with a very thick stem.
Yes.
I mean, so like the theory that it would be part of the chem dog, with the chem dog making a sour diesel, the growth structure is just way off.
You know what I'm saying?
Like, if you've grown chem 91 next to sour diesel, the sativa growth on the sour diesel is just, you know, if you've grown it, I don't have to tell you how it grows.
Yeah, yeah. It's 98 for chem 91, sure.
Right. So, so if the theory of the super skunk went into it, then where does all that sativa growth comes from?
I mean, unless it's a recessive trait, but I kind of disagree with that because I've grown the DNL that I think that is part of the sour diesel and it grows exactly the same.
Just that really stretchy sativa.
You have to top it off and just branch it out and everything.
So that's just my, my, my view.
Yeah, I agree with your DNL and I saw a lot of sour traits in it as well. I would agree with that.
Right. And I thought, and I was going to ask you that because I thought a while back that you had grown some of those DNL crosses and I wanted to get your opinion on that.
I thought it was dank, dude. I love that shit.
Yeah, I still sitting on some beans. I haven't brought them out in a long time, but I got so many different things I've been working on that.
I don't know. I got to try to get into it soon, especially with all this with all this skunk controversies that are going on.
And that's speaking of controversies over this whole thing with fucking giraffe neck.
Dick neck.
Yeah. I mean, you know, if I was skunk VA, I would have just ripped his head off right there on the spot.
I'm surprised he didn't.
Yeah. That dude is just like a mellow dude. And he's the kind of dude that once he snaps, like, you know, no stopping it.
I mean, he's got, he's got his arms are the size of my thighs. Like Popeye. He's like a wrestler. He's like a shoot. I mean, like.
I couldn't believe what joint joint breath on the suck his dick or something online.
Yeah, but there was, he went up to his booth and they had some kind of conversation and then he came outside and I was in a circle with the swamp boys and Bronson was there and he just like fucking lost his mind.
I mean, I thought I was going to have to fight him at first, but then I, but then I became like his therapist. I mean, I kind of had like a shred of sympathy for the guy.
You were saying to you when jail and blah, blah, blah, everyone hates him and how he wants to be accepted and all this other bullshit.
You were the voice of reason. Usually you're swinging on people.
Stop fronting. I was like, you know, you're he's handing us a jar of skunk around and I'm like, yo, you think that's real roadkill? I told him I give him, you know, some kind of skunk one or something like that.
Like, but when you smell it, I mean, it kind of has that smell to it, but the bud structure itself is like very kind of leafy and sativa.
And then when I smoke it, it tastes like straight up pay and I'm not saying that to be a hater.
I'm giving you my opinion. And I told them, I was like, Hey, listen, if you had something that great, I would congratulate.
Yeah, for sure.
You just thinking that everyone's saying shit to be a hater. I'll give you my honest opinion. And everyone that I talked to that was in that expo that saw that stuff was just like,
Yeah, he brought it to Emerald Cup too. And it was, uh, and the people that touched the underside of the jar got some orange shit on their fingers that smelled like real skunk.
Right, right.
He didn't have any of that going on, but
Poor fella.
Yeah.
Either one of those dudes, man.
We'll see what happens at the next.
Yeah, right.
Let it boil over a little bit.
either one of those dudes, man.
We'll see what happens at the next show.
Yeah, right?
Let it boil over a little bit.
But, and then there's all these other guys that,
say they have the roadkill.
And I had the original Super Spunk back in like 1995.
And let me tell you, when you just crack that jaw,
it just permeated.
And then I had gotten a cut years later.
It just wasn't the same.
It didn't give out those same kind of turns.
So what about my different cut or the,
cuts just dud out after a while.
They do, yeah.
And it's starting to happen with the Sour Diesel
because everyone asked me,
oh, where's that Sour Diesel at?
You know, with that old time Sour Diesel.
And you gotta figure it, that's like 25 years.
That's how long that cut is now.
So, and it just been given,
from person to person, from room to room.
And I think,
cuts adapt to the room that they're in.
So, your Sour Diesel is gonna come out
different than my Sour Diesel now.
If you start giving out cuts and I start giving out cuts,
after a while, I think there could be
some type of genetic drift that might happen.
Not anything drastically,
but there's just seems to be these small subtle things
that seem to be missing from the Sour nowadays.
Sure, yeah.
I mean, acclimates from room to room to room to room
and that thing's so fucking old, yeah.
Right, but I've had, we had,
the original underdog,
which was super skunk NL times a 91.
It just went bad on us.
I mean, we had the cut
and then after a while,
it just, it only showed glimmers of itself,
when it was really, really good.
And it was start,
the harvest went down,
it was harder to clone and everything.
And then after a while, my son was like,
he gave it to me, I did a little bit of work with it.
And my son was like,
listen, I'm just gonna let it go.
Yeah.
But we just let it go, and that was it.
And I remember just buying,
from buying weed,
there was this stuff called the wheelchair,
the wheelchair.
And back in the day,
that shit was good and dumb.
And then the same thing after a while,
you just could not get the same batches,
just from buying it after a while.
And the same people were growing it and everything, but.
What's the wheelchair?
I'm not sure.
It was just some type of local strain
that was sold in New York City.
Okay.
Back in the time.
Back then we didn't really have,
names weren't really the thing that they are now.
So.
Yeah.
I have no idea what it was.
So let's talk about I-95.
Yeah, I think I've seen some stuff referenced,
like as the wheelchair or the crippler
or something like that.
I'm gonna have to really find out,
where that really came from.
But I think that,
that stuff came from Amsterdam back in the day.
It sure did, yeah.
Let's talk about I-95.
That's.
Yeah, and that was the other one that I wanted to talk about.
Let's talk about the history of it, all of it.
That's a Money Mike strain.
And originally he bred that back in like 2014.
We brought it to the Denver Cup.
The last Denver Cup was 2014.
Yeah.
And we brought that,
it was a legend, star dog male times the triangle coach.
Yeah.
So he bred that, we brought that out.
And we were friends with Tara Rojo.
And we went over to Mindful and he gave us a tour.
And so we gave him some seeds.
I gave him some star dog seeds.
He got some I-95 seeds.
And we're just trying to help the guy out.
Yeah, just be nice.
Right, not knowing.
Well, going further back,
he had invited us to share his booth
in one of the first few Denver Cups.
It might've been 2011.
You know what I mean?
So, I always respected Phil
and thanked him for helping us and everything.
And so we gave him seeds to play with and stuff.
So he grew those seeds out.
And then see, this is where it starts getting kind of fudgy
because when I confronted him,
he says that he had started the seeds and left Mindful
or I'm not really sure, but we gave the seeds to Phil.
And then before we know it,
one of his workers, Matt Ross,
started a seed company basically
with the seeds that we gave Phil.
Correct, yeah.
Now Phil claims that he stole them from Mindful,
took them out and started playing with them
at his house and all.
But we held Phil responsible for that.
And he claims that, but he hired the same guy
to run some kind of, get some kind of job in Chicago.
So to me, I think that he kind of set him up
to kind of be the bad guy.
And while Phil spread those genetics all through
his dealings with Agridge.
And so he's got the Agridge thing
and he does other smaller stuff on the side.
And I mean, like I know he got some stuff in Baltimore
and Maryland and Pennsylvania.
And I don't know if those are Agridge related or not,
but I do know they're running the I-95 Chem D
that those guys made.
And then, so they did that.
And then we had the Elite guys,
which those guys are friends of ours.
Yeah, they're good friends of mine too.
And they took a pack of I-95
and they did the same thing.
I mean, they bought them,
but then they saw what these guys did with it
and they started doing the same crosses that they did.
But they didn't sell it.
They didn't sell them, but they were giving them away.
But just even doing, giving them away,
you're trying to like make a name for yourself.
I mean, in the way that I look at it is if you're given
a pack of I-95 Chem D,
you think you're ever gonna buy one from me?
The chances are not.
Did you guys ever release the I-95 Chem D
or the I-95 publicly?
Oh yeah, I'm selling them now.
Oh, I didn't know that.
Because yeah, so I'm selling them now.
So everybody go grab your I-95 Chem D from JJ,
Top Dog Seeds right here.
Well, basically I took F2s from them guys.
And then I mean, not F1s,
well, they gave me F1s and I made F2s with them.
But then I started crossing
into some of the different other strains.
And then Money Mike also did a remake
of his I-95 into the Chem D
and made the D-95s.
So that's Money Mike's cake on it.
And my cake is just an F2 on it.
So I took their, yeah.
And then I took their original,
that Chem D leaning,
was the one that I F2ed at,
that I had gotten.
But I had, they had, I mean,
and I went over there with those,
and went after Phil left.
And Matt and his brother, Jackson,
both gave me seeds, gave me buds,
told me how much they loved me,
the whole thing.
And then he went around and did that.
And then Wave Gem did the same exact thing.
They came up to our booth in Boston
and told us how much they loved us
and blah, blah, blah.
And Money Mike wanted to punch the guy out
because he was playing around with,
he was getting into dangerous territory at that time.
And I told him, yo, you better just back off.
And I mean, you're getting a little bit too close.
And then he got all stupid and did the same thing.
So everyone tells you that they love you,
how much they respect you, this and that,
come and kiss your ass.
They get your gear and they want to be like you.
And they just go and just try to copy
all the work that you've done.
So it just needs to be a common trait.
You know what I mean?
And on Instagram now.
Yeah, it's a different world.
At least on the forums,
like people would get called out all the time
by a lot of people.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, but now it's just as easy to just block someone.
No one really has the respect or decency anymore.
Back in the day, it was a lot different.
It was a lot different than now.
I've never heard of that WaveGen.
Is that a new company?
Just some guys, I think they were some kid
that was out of Rhode Island.
And he's up there in Maine now.
All right, I'll keep my eye out.
I wanna give WaveGen, or WaveGen Genetics.
He's changed his name a few times.
He's gotten deleted.
And then you got Greenpoint, another one.
You know what I mean?
Man, he took the I-95, he took the Stardog.
He did the same thing.
This guy right here.
Yeah, WaveGenetics.
All right.
Yeah, someone put it up, WaveGenetics.
That's the guy.
So, hey, I got a question for you.
A lot of people don't know what DNL is in the first place.
Can you go over it for people?
Well, as far as I know, the DNL originally,
originally it was the RFK skunk,
which the weasel Mike and Gabby went down to a dead show
at RFK and scored a bag of kind bud
and found, I don't know, like eight or 10 seeds or whatever.
So they both agreed to split the seeds.
And when they did it,
they actually put all the seeds out on the table
and they each one by one.
I picked this one, I picked that one.
I picked this one, I picked that one.
And when the weasel,
and he wound up getting three different phenos
and that's when I first met him in Central Park.
He was skunk one, skunk two, skunk three.
That's what he called them.
And then a friend of his wound up getting like some type
of some NLC and some Hawaiian seeds.
And he wound up having those seeds
and he gave him some of those RFK clones.
And so he made his own stream by combining the three
and he just called it the NL.
But it might've had some NL in it,
but it was mostly sativa dominant in structure.
And the Hawaiian, it kind of had these tropical,
like tropical skunky tones a little bit.
You know what I mean?
Kind of, you get little bits,
you know, you could taste in a sour sometimes.
You know what I mean?
So, you know, so that was a strain
that he grew exclusively.
And I think that he gave it back to the weasel to grow.
And that's what I suspect was in the room
when those seeds were made originally,
well, weren't made, but were found originally,
I mean, in the 91.
Because, I mean, I used to sell weed for the weasel.
He grew it, I sold it.
But he had a few, he had Vondo
and there were a few other people that would weasel in
and try to buy it.
Because it was like a race because I would, you know,
he would only get like a couple of pounds.
So it was like, you know,
you just had to grab everything that he had at the time,
just cash him out.
And this way you had control of all of that.
Because, you know, back in the day,
people would just come in and just want to buy it all.
You know what I mean?
And I would be like, I can't sell it to you all
because I like to spread it out.
And I would sell it to other people that did me favors.
You know what I mean?
So, you know, when I get something in,
you know, I'll hit you off.
You can make some money, just do me a favor,
you know, get me, you know, you save me,
you know, this or that.
And so you could use it as like a bartering tool
to, you know, get other favors from people.
Sure.
Wait, do you know if the RFK is still around
or is that long gone?
No, that's been long gone.
Yeah.
And then really recently they lost the DNL
within the last like two years or so also.
I mean, that's why I was thinking about trying to,
you know, fall back on some of those seeds I've made.
Yeah, dude.
And see if I could pull anything out
that's like the original.
That would be real cool.
Real cool.
It's really, I wanted to try to reverse that
into the nine D one and see what would happen.
Yeah.
Because when I first started growing in like 99,
you know, I had been selling wheat for a long time
and anytime I had some, anything that was super killing,
I found seeds, I would save them.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
And then at one time I had a really bad ass collection
from the 80s and all that.
And the cops took it, I got busted.
Bucket pigs.
And then the cops wound up taking it.
So I wound up starting a new one.
And then, so when I started that one,
then when I started getting the chem dog,
you know, every once in a while you might find
a seed or two in there.
So I would save them.
And so when I started, I popped a few of those seeds
and really back then there was no really such thing
as the sow.
Yeah.
But, you know, looking back,
I had found some stuff that was very sour,
like very sourish, you know what I mean?
And I remember I had something happened.
I think that we had the clothes down to grow, whatever.
And I had just popped these seeds and I sexed them
and I gave them, and I gave the clone to my friend
and I was like, listen, I was like,
I said, the only thing I know that this is like,
you know, came from out of the chem dog and the female.
And I gave it to him and he grew it out
and that became the guava, but not the guava of today.
I gotcha.
So he called that cut the guava,
but it was kind of very sourish and all that.
And he ran it and then eventually lost it.
You know what I mean?
And then years later, I wound up doing the star dog
and I had gifted my friend some seeds
to give to Andre Grossman, the photographer of High Times.
Okay.
And he grew them out and he found a pheno
that was today's guava.
So what happened was somehow,
well, what happened was they liked that cut so much
and at the time they had High Times,
they had the Kyle Cushman strawberry crop.
Yeah.
And they actually had a plant,
they had a plant in the office
and like anyone that went into the office,
if they liked you enough,
they would cut you a couple of clones
right off the plant in the office
and let you go home with them.
So eventually the same thing happened with the guava.
And both the guava and the strawberry crop
became the office strains.
So years later, like I was saying,
the same guy that named the guava tells me
that he got the guava back.
So we eventually find out that it comes full circle
back from the High Times guys.
And so like that was how, you know,
the guava kind of got its name of today though.
But it was originally some type of sour chem something,
the original cup, but I remember it
and it was very sour diesel.
I don't think, well,
I didn't get to ever finish it out actually.
Well, one of them I did and then another one I didn't.
I mean, I did get to finish one out,
but then I had popped another seed
and that was the seed that I gave my friend.
But it came from the same batch though of seeds.
Now I had seed.
Was the start of guava similar in terms or anything
to the other guava?
Not really.
I mean, the guava of today is more chem four-ish.
More like the chem four.
Whereas the other one was more kind of 91-ish.
A little more fuel, a little more fuel,
sourish fuel the original one was.
Do you still have any of those old,
the purple Afghan cross?
I think you did a purple star dog with it.
With the purple star dog with what?
I think it was British Empire's purple Afghan.
Yeah, I did.
I never really, I never popped any of those seeds.
I do, I'm sitting on them.
And I think I did some into the chem D also.
Oh, wow.
And I think I did some into the original haze too.
Those all could be real.
That Afghan original haze could be fucking real interesting.
I wound up flowering out some of that stuff
and some of it was green and some of it was purple
just by semantics.
Yeah.
You know?
I wound up using a male and I fucked up
and never made F2s out of that.
You know?
But I do have that, just the crosses
into the star dog and the chem D.
Yeah, that would be fascinating to see pop back up.
Yeah, but the purple star dog that I made,
the purple came from the trade dog male
and the purple probably came from the Afghan.
Yeah.
And that Afghan was a senti seed Afghan.
The old Afghani one?
Afghan one, yeah.
And I think, you know, looking back into that,
that wasn't really like a true,
cultivar as in one strain.
I think it was a mix of their best Afghanis
or something like that.
And even like looking back into the maple leaf,
I think even like the maple leaf really wasn't really,
really like one stable strain.
I think there were a variety of different phenos in there.
Because if you look back into the seed bank catalog,
they actually offer that.
Yeah.
Like a 50 pack or something like that.
And it's more of like a breeders, you know what I mean?
They don't really, you know what I mean?
But it sounded like, you know,
there was a lot of different varieties in there.
But the one guy that they talk about, maple leaf,
whoever they called one guy, maple leaf,
was the phenos that he was growing at the time.
So I guess all that was based off of his stuff.
You know, I've always found that a lot of the stuff
that was listed as maple leaf indica,
like that was used, tend to look like Afghani one.
So I don't know if they have a similar parentage
that way back up.
I think, you know, because I look back and I think,
you know, if you look into the catalogs on the Afghani one,
it says it's like a mix of the three or four best Afghanis
or whatever, you know.
But when I grew it, it grew very fat stemmed,
single cola, kind of short, medium height.
And it didn't really have a really,
the turps on it weren't really super strong.
It was kind of subtle.
So that's why I figured it'd be a good-
Outcross.
To go into, yeah, outcross into the chemd
because it wouldn't be dominant, you know.
It kind of had like a kind of a medicine,
a little medicine thing to it.
You know, it was decent.
Yeah, I mean, I smoked a flower,
but it wasn't anything that would compare to the chemdog,
but the structure, you know, definitely added,
because it gave you that really thick stem.
Yeah.
And all the calyx to bud ratio,
there wasn't much leaf on that.
So-
You were one of the first guys I saw
from not necessarily the modern era,
but prior to the modern era
that was actually using like the Northern Lights,
the Super Skunks, the Afghani One, shit like that.
And that always inspired me to go in that direction
for those baselines.
So I appreciate that.
Yeah, well, I was always a big Sen-CC fan back in the day.
Yeah.
I mean, their genetics are not the same-
Unfortunately.
As they were back then.
But, you know, but if you're looking back,
most of that stuff they got from that.
Yep.
Stuff was C-Bank stuff that, you know,
when Neville was in jail and, you know,
they bailed him out and, you know,
they gave him money or whatever.
Yeah.
So I'm pretty sure that was the story behind that.
Yeah.
Some of the best stuff there is, as far as baselines go.
I think if people don't grow that stuff,
they won't have an idea of a lot of the traits
in modern stuff.
Like they don't have a good base knowledge.
And looking back, like I know people, you know,
that have talked to the drunkards and they've admitted
that they've lost all their mother plants.
Yeah.
You know, from back in the day.
But, you know, someone like Adam Dunn,
he was working, you know, with them back in the 90s.
And so he, you know, knows firsthand
a lot of that stuff that went on.
But, you know, he left after he left, that's where, you know,
and then I don't know who else was doing it.
I don't know who else was doing the breathing
back in the 90s.
I'm not sure.
But, you know, because you used to be able
to get those cellophane cord packs.
Yeah.
And then they upgraded to the box with the bubble.
Yeah, the box and the bubble.
All that stuff was junk.
And then leading up until today,
because my friend, he had bought a pack of Jack Herrera,
like, you know, the year it won the cup or whatever.
And, you know, he grew it out, you know,
I was selling the weed and after a while,
they just kind of, people got sick of it.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
They told him to stop doing it.
He's like, oh, don't worry, I'll kill it.
I still have the whole pack left.
You know, years later, I said,
hey, why don't you look for that pack?
Well, I lost it.
You know what I mean?
So then I was able to grab a pack of the boxes
and I gave him a pack of the Jack Herrera
and he grew it out.
And this was, it wasn't the same.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
It was really, it was junk.
And I think really by then,
that's when a lot of people started outsourcing
to a lot of that stuff comes back,
but you know, it's kind of like Jack,
me, they got the Jack Turk to it,
but it's, you know, it grows very sativa like,
but it, you know, it's kind of wispy.
And I don't know, I just call it like generic Amsterdam weed.
And like, even like Adam says, you know,
like the Jack itself is like, I don't know,
like a 12 way cross or something.
I mean, just the four things
that just cross back into each other.
And after a while, this becomes like, you know,
a genetic like mess almost where this comes,
it's just very generic in what it's producing.
It becomes a muddled mess.
Right.
It looks like we got a minute left.
Anything else you want to get in my man?
We got into pretty much everything.
I'm surprised we're able to squeeze it in.
I know dude.
Well, hey, it's a pleasure having you on.
You're one of the best.
Thank you very much, man.
I appreciate it.
I'm glad we were able to go over these things
and just, you know, iron out some of the confusion
that might've been out there.
Yeah, for sure, man.
Appreciate it.
Talk soon, brother.
All right, man.
Peace out.
