Ready, go!
🎵
Welcome to Breeder's Syndicate.
🎵
Alright, today we have here Chimera and Red.
They are founders, I can't even say founders,
shouldn't say founders, but you guys kind of are
of the BC seed scene. You guys were there in the early days of the BC seed scene
and the BC cannabis era, the boom.
We just wanted to sit back and pick your brains on what you guys went through,
the early upcomings, and your guys' adventures through your era.
Yeah, well, thanks for having us on the show.
Oh, it's an honor, man.
Yeah, I don't even really know what to say, man. BC.
I grew up on the east side of the country.
I didn't meet Kip until the early part of the 2000s, I guess,
really late 1990s, early part of 2000s.
And so, the Canadian scene was really so different back then.
I mean, it was really segregated all across the country,
different provinces treated cannabis quite differently.
You know, BC, kind of the left side of the country,
BC being the most lenient kind of equivalent to California.
A lot of different types of scenes going on.
Quebec, for example, was like really quite controlled
or at least influenced by the health of the biker gangs.
So, it wasn't really as open.
But I would say the west, at least starting in BC,
it was really – BC is such a massive province.
It's like four times the size of Germany kind of thing, right?
So, it's really quite large.
And there's only – I don't know, the population, I guess,
back then must have been around 3 million.
It's only 4 million now.
So, you can imagine like spaced population ratio.
There's a lot of places you can go.
Yeah.
A lot of small towns, a lot of places to go at the end of the road
and set up a show or dig a bunch of trailers underneath the ground or whatever.
So, people really did everything back then.
It was like – it was so open, at least in British Columbia,
and anybody could get into it.
I mean, I think probably – and one of the reasons I think it was so accepted as well
is that like every family or every person knew someone in the cannabis business,
whether you were a grower, a broker, or a trimmer.
Like really – just like it is in Northern California, you know what I mean?
The cannabis scene feeds the local economy.
It is the local economy.
It drives the local economy.
Yeah.
But without that local economy, I mean, you're not going to have gas stations.
You're not going to have restaurants.
And we got this town in the interior of British Columbia called Nelson, BC,
which became a little bit known in the States about 15 years ago or 10 years ago.
I can't remember exactly when it was.
But they put up a statue to recognize the draft dodgers that came up from the States
like in the 60s and 70s.
Oh, wow.
Right?
And because these guys would show up.
They dodged the draft.
They'd come up to Canada.
You wouldn't have a social security or social insurance number.
So, you couldn't be part of the regular workforce.
So, these guys would start setting up drugs.
And they're typically like hippie-minded folks anyway too, right, in the era.
And it just – growing cannabis really just fit in with that whole thing.
And what it was, it was like the number of car dealerships or high-end restaurants in Nelson
was like – it's way, way, way above normal for average populations because people there have money to spend.
Like Miami during the 80s with the cocaine boom.
Yeah, probably a little bit like that.
But Nelson's really like – I mean it's the middle of nowhere.
I mean you're on the other side of the northern border from Montana.
It's quite remote like in British Columbia.
I mean it's far in the interior.
It's not like there's a big three-lane highway driving from there.
So, it's got to be like a seven-hour drive from Vancouver.
So, it's really an interesting little place that developed this cannabis community.
And like I said, I mean Fox News got all bent out of shape obviously when that statue went up.
Oh, I bet.
But it's the kind of place that would do that and support.
Well, I mean conscientious objectors were usually kind of social misfits as it were.
So, I could definitely see that leading to a growing community.
Yeah, and so there was another community like that on the east side of the country called Killaloo, Ontario.
And I don't know.
There's Canadians that are listening.
But we've got this pastry they make called beaver tails up here in Canada.
And anyway, they're from Killaloo.
And I think that those guys also came from that same area.
They have one of the beaver tails called Killaloo Sunrise.
But I would often wonder if that was like a money laundering.
It could have been, yeah.
Excuse me if I'm totally way off base.
But it was just like those were the two communities on the west coast and the east coast that really were made up of mostly draft dodgers or at least a significant portion of draft dodgers.
And so they kind of became these cannabis hubs to a degree.
Yeah, so I don't know.
It's been a weird transition in the last like really 30 years to watch this whole thing develop.
What was your first entrance as far as like when you first started smoking?
What were the strains that were around that you were running into that kind of inspired you even to get into cannabis genetics?
So, I mean, when I was originally buying dope, it didn't come with a name.
Yeah, yeah.
Early on.
Ours was Mexican brick, just this brick.
Red hair, purple hair.
Yeah, the first thing that I went to the school and down the road, my friend ended up running into this guy who's a real skid mark.
He's just this weirdo that sold drugs, I guess, to some of the high school students.
And I remember buying weed from him and he had what was referred to as BC skunk or the skunk weed or whatever.
And this had to be early 90s.
And it was just not like – that was the first time I saw anything with a name.
And I had this other dealer I would typically buy from and he had all these really nice import hashes and different kinds of flower.
But it was – it would be like I'd show up and he'd be like, oh, I got these purple buds.
Yeah.
It was like that kind of stuff.
Or I got like a red cherry honey oil.
And those were the names that you'd get.
Yeah.
It wasn't branded.
It wasn't cultivar names or anything like that.
And I think really that that probably didn't actually start – I mean I think that there was obviously people that were going over to Holland and buying seeds.
But in Canada, there was no legal seed sales until Mark – sorry.
There was no above the counter seed sales.
I'm not sure if legal seed sales.
But until Mark Henry started selling seeds.
Yeah.
And I remember seeing the first copy of what became Cannabis Culture Magazine was originally called Cannabis Canada Magazine.
Yeah.
And he had a seed catalog on the front two pages.
And I think that was really when it was like a kind of open – not open my eyes, but like I really started to understand that there was this larger world of cannabis, cannabis seed banks and types of varieties.
It all wasn't just weed.
When you're buying from an unregulated market where you're just buying whatever the dealer can get his hands on.
Sure.
That shit's not important.
Name isn't important.
It's like do you have something or not?
Yeah.
When shit can go dry, it's not a main priority.
Yeah.
Yeah.
How about you, Red?
What you got?
What was your first entrance?
Wow.
Yeah.
So I grew up in southwestern Ontario back in the 80s.
We didn't see grass, man.
I mean we saw a lot of hash oil, which we called RSO now I guess, and import.
And that all came down from the St. Lawrence from the rock machine and the bikers coming down that laneway.
So I mean honestly dope to us was $15 gram RSO, two for 25, or import a free de-hash.
Yeah.
That was it.
It wasn't until I got out to kind of dead tour, let's say late 80s dead tour on the East Coast,
and then ultimately made my way out to Vancouver to go to school at UBC that I actually see flower, to be quite frank.
I know a lot of guys in my area, going back after I did, as it were, I knew kind of more about growers in that scene.
When I came back to visit from BC and found out there were a lot of guys that were growing in the cornfields, you know.
Yeah.
Especially the organic certification that always give you harvest dates, weeks that they were going to be harvesting.
So you'd always go in, plant your weed between the rows, and then take it out at least two or three days before the guys would come get it.
So I let the farmers do it for you back in those days.
That's gangster.
Yeah.
Southwestern Ontario in the late 70s and 80s.
But yeah, I mean, I kind of got out to BC in 1991.
I went to UBC, did an undergrad degree there, and really kind of got immersed in the cannabis scene.
The varieties of cannabis, the ease of it, the acceptability of it.
I mean, I came from Ontario, man, puffing a joint in public with Sacculids.
You were just looking all around waiting to get popped.
Yeah.
We walked down the streets in van and just didn't give a shit.
No one cared.
It was just this freedom and this wonderful culture that I found myself in, and it really was exciting.
So I've graduated between going to Grateful Dead shows.
Somehow graduated and really just got into the scene very quickly.
Yeah.
I knew a lot of folks that were moving a lot of weight.
A lot of stuff was going down south, obviously, back in those days.
The cannabis culture scene on East Hastings, which would have involved Mark Emery's Hemp BC, which became Cannabis Culture.
Blump Brothers with Daryl.
The Amazon Cafe, or the Amsterdam Cafe with Karen Dunlap.
I mean, there was a whole scene down there, man.
Like in one of the shittiest parts of town anywhere in North America, you had this real estate pot block where you could go down, puff in cafes.
The cops weren't going to come bust you.
Hang out with like-minded people.
Really start making connections and understanding you weren't this individual.
You were part of a larger community.
Yeah.
And it was really dope, man.
It was kind of then that we started kind of figuring out the boards, the forums.
Like Cannabis World, Heaven Stairway.
I mean, I'm going way back now.
Yeah, yeah.
Where they expanded this community.
It wasn't just in Van, but it was North America, and especially our Yankee brothers and sisters down south.
I mean, you guys would do jail time for a joint where we'd get white privileged up our ass up here and get a slap on the wrist and told to go home.
Yeah.
So that was kind of my first introduction into the kind of the more global or North American scene.
And we quickly realized, you know, starting up Small Grows in Vancouver, it was easy peasy.
I mean, the worst thing if you got busted was you would get told to go sit out front, chop your plants, take your ballast, and that's how it was.
Yeah, restart.
Restart, yeah.
So having three or four houses.
And I mean, rent was cheap back in Van in those days, too.
So I mean, and pounds were going for 32 Canadian at that point in the game.
Yeah.
So I mean, it was well worth that an eight-lighter could put you in a new tax bracket.
Yeah, no shit.
And so we figured out pretty quickly that, you know, you could grow Sensi or, you know, and that was great and fantastic and get cuts from, you know, guys you'd meet online or seeds from Amsterdam and things like that.
Sure.
Or you could start making your own seeds because there was this huge market for it.
And I mean, one room of making seeds was like five years of profits in Sensi, right?
Yeah, that's really true. Yeah.
So, you know, we kind of started doing that, you know, and we started creating some seed companies and realizing that there were other seed companies across Canada.
So an old business partner of mine started Legend Seeds as a seed brokerage house, and we started carrying the Dutch stuff and Canadian seed breeders at that point in the game.
At that point, I mean, I think there were maybe six seed companies on the world wide web.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
At that point, man.
Yeah.
So and most of them were Dutch or Mark, you know.
Yeah.
So it was that's kind of my first, but that's how I kind of got into it.
You know, we had to Amsterdam once a year, grab the seeds we needed to, you know, somehow it magically appeared back in Vancouver and we sold worldwide.
We took out ads in the back of High Times and more than 100 got seeds.
Yeah.
You know, really, that kind of blew up for me personally.
And that's kind of how I met Kymira, to be honest with you.
I think I met him and was it Heaven's Stairway or Overgrow, right?
Yeah, it was the Cannabis Culture, no, Cannabis World.
Cannabis World, right?
It was those guys out of Quebec.
And I think I was selling Mila's isolator bags back then.
That's what it was.
Yeah.
That's what it was, eh?
It was actually one of those moments where I realized that my internet security wasn't great.
I had made a post online about I needed some bubble bags from our friend Marcus Richardson.
Yeah.
I guess Red had been selling them in Canada, a different brand, the Mila, the pollinator company bags.
I remember going into my university email account and there was an email from Red.
I was like, I posted on this website and now this guy has my email address.
How the fuck did that happen, right?
Well, see, that was the part of the problem.
Back then, I never felt like we were doing anything wrong.
So to me, my security, especially living in BC, because we just didn't think that we were untouchable, really.
It was just normal and I was going to act like it was normal.
And I keep forgetting that my Eastern brothers were still getting pretty dodged out by shit like that.
I mean, looking back at it, it was an insane level of security.
It was probably obsessive.
I mean, that's kind of just what you learn to operate under when you're operating under these harsh laws.
I mean, I was in Ottawa, which is, you know, think north of Utica or Buffalo, kind of up that way, right?
Near New York State.
And I mean, it's the capital of the country.
I mean, that's where they decree the law from, right?
When they talk about federal law in Canada, it's really enforced differently in the capital than it is kind of on the West Coast, right?
On the West Coast, you know how it is in California.
It's kind of like you look back at DC and be like, ah, those goofs back in DC are making laws.
We're just going to go on about our lives here on the West Coast.
It's kind of the same thing.
But they really do enforce it differently back there.
You're ducking and covering while Kip was feeling secure in his little groves out on the West Coast.
I was panicking my ass off every time it started to smell.
Yeah.
It wasn't much different in California, even today.
There's still like I live in Bakersfield.
You drive six hours north to Humboldt or seven hours north to Humboldt.
It's a different world.
It is.
Like a totally different world night and day.
Yeah.
Up until most recently, to be quite frank, even with legalization, things haven't really changed that much until the last, say, five years of rec legalization up here.
Attitudes, generally.
I mean, much more conservative out in the East Coast and Central Canada than it is on the West Coast, which I mean, of North America in general, I could probably say.
Yeah.
But a great story was that how we actually met Ryan was I convinced him that I wanted to meet him face to face.
And my partner at the time, Karen Dunlap, who owns Amsterdam Seed Company and Great Canadian Seeds.
Yeah.
And another friend of mine, Pete Young, who actually is one of the founders of Indiva.
And he's also.
You know, super cropping?
Super cropping.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Shawnee's really good friends with or good friends with Pete.
He just did an interview with him.
Yeah.
I grew up in London.
So I was like a 14 year old kid when Pete and Chris Clay were doing their whole thing.
So I was kind of born in that scene.
Yeah.
We interviewed Pete already.
He's super cool.
Are you kidding me, man?
You're from London.
That's hilarious, brother.
Yeah.
Are you from London?
I kind of.
OK, there you go.
Yeah.
A lot of people were born in London.
There's something about that town.
Like, I don't know.
It's like I went on kind of tour after the dead, but I was on like fish and stuff like that.
But I swear I would go like anywhere I went in the US, I would meet some fucking weirdo
from London that, you know, it's just like a weird connection.
And yeah, right.
There's something about that place.
My very first time I met Mark Emery was when I was 16 buying my two live crew out.
Oh, yeah, exactly.
How old are you?
I turned 50 this year.
OK.
You don't look it, dude.
Yeah, you don't look it.
I'm 43.
But yeah, I was buying records in City Lights and same thing, two live crew and shit like that.
But that strip there with the what's that?
Richmond?
Yeah.
Though the clothing store next to Lehman House.
Oh, yeah.
City Lights, Lehman House and then Pete's shop across the street.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That was like.
Organic Traveler?
Yeah.
Organic Traveler.
Yeah.
So Pete and I actually met over in Europe, in Switzerland, when we were doing a grow
out there at one point.
Yeah.
We became very, very good friends.
So the three of us hit the road, essentially, and we traveled all around Ontario and Quebec
and went to head shops back in those in the second year.
What year was this, Ryan?
Was this like, oh, two or one?
Yeah, well, so you and I had actually met before, but that I don't remember what year
that was, but 20, 2000, must have been 2002 or 2003.
Oh, my apologies.
No, no, no.
It had to be earlier because it was, it would have been 2000.
It would have been 2000 because she wrapped the seeds over in Europe later on.
Right.
So we went and we were going to all these head shops and we were trying to get them
to sell seeds or at least carry their catalogs so that, and we would kick down all of the,
you know, the owners that they handed out our catalog.
So we got to meet a lot of folks.
That was a great trip.
And then one of our stops was in Ottawa with Ryan.
That was the first time I somehow convinced him to let us sell his seeds, I believe.
Is that how it worked, Ryan, or am I confusing you?
No, no, no.
We were already, you and I were already doing business at that point.
Were we?
Oh, see, there you go, man.
Yeah, Karen picked up the distribution account at that point in time, the wholesale.
Okay, that's right.
You and I, I mean, our first time we met was at the Jazz Fest.
Oh, mind blowing.
Oh, mind blowing, right in Montreal.
My bad.
Sorry, guys.
Like I said, it's been many heady years ahead of me or behind me, I should say.
That's right, Jazz Fest.
My dad had a place, Cary St. Louis, Brownstone in Montreal for years, and we'd kick him
and his family out and me and my friends would take over as Brownstone for Jazz Fest.
That's right.
That's where I met Ryan.
And Bubble Man was at that, was on that trip too, right?
We went and saw.
That's right.
Who did we see?
We saw a whole bunch of great bands.
Martin Modesky and the Wood.
Yeah, MMW, that's right.
That's right.
Carl Laswell and 8-Track with the drummer from Napalm Death.
What a crazy-
What?
Yeah, man, it was a wacky show, dude.
But yeah, those were kind of the start days.
And then from there, you know, My C Company Legends, well, and Ryan would come.
We'd go over to the High Times Cannabis Cup in Amsterdam every year.
We had a booth.
Our first booth was literally like a small table with a bunch of T-shirts.
And then the second year, we actually got a real booth.
And the second year, we were actually right beside Bubble Man.
We had our booze right beside each other.
And we did fairly well there.
And we got to really connect with all the Dutch guys like Ari and the Dronkers
and, you know, all the boys over there.
And they became kindred friends, you know, because we were these, you know,
cannabis cowboys from Canada.
We were kind of showing up to these guys, these old Dutch guys.
And they were kind of showing us the ropes.
And we were kind of the new upstarts.
And they really-I got to be honest with you.
A lot of them were really generous with their time and their information
and were really quite friendly to us.
So it was kind of fun.
That's really cool.
Back then, too, Canada was kind of like the leading-not Canada.
I want to say BC was the leading edge, right?
I mean, pre-Prop 215 in California, they were still clamping down on everybody, right?
Vancouver was this little scene where American growers come up,
get their seeds for starts.
And that was really, you know, Vancouver was the hub.
So I think the Dutch folks really saw that, you know,
Canada was kind of the leading edge of a new territory.
And obviously, they wanted to have their seeds in that new territory
and make money.
And it was their input to North America, really, even to the U.S. scene
by people traveling up to Canada.
It's much easier to get to Canada than, obviously, Amsterdam.
Exactly.
And mail, too.
You know, I mean, there's people that are comfortable coming up
and bringing the seeds back.
And then there's the mail-order guys that ship them.
And people come back and ship them themselves.
You know what I mean?
Oh, yeah.
Like the seed scene down on Hastings Street, especially at Mark's,
at Hemp BC or Cannabis Culture.
Like on Saturdays, man, the Yankee lineup was out the door.
Like people coming buying seeds.
And, of course, back then, you know, Mark would owe us all these,
like, seed producers money.
And he'd give us his card.
And on the back of the card, it said, I owe you 500 bucks.
And every Saturday, you can come down and pick it up.
So, of course, there'd be like six seed guys on a couch.
And we're all waiting for the next Yankee to throw the money down
so we could get cashed out and get the stuff out of there.
Because we were just wholly frightened by – it was so sketchy down there.
Oh, I bet.
Like there was so much dodginess going on down there.
But it was the only way we could get paid back in those days.
So, we, again, met a lot of folks.
We didn't throw money down there and made a lot of great connections.
And, yeah, it was a trip being a part of that whole thing.
Honestly, my favorite part of that scene down there – and, Ryan, I mean,
did you spend a lot of time at Blunt Brothers, Ryan?
I did a lot of Blunt Brothers when I moved out there for UBC.
I stayed away from Mark Emory because I just thought he was such a piece of shit.
And he was.
It's a universal opinion, I think.
When I first moved to Vancouver, a friend of mine flew me out from London,
actually, to Vancouver.
But we had a room in the old Crosstown traffic building.
And it was sketchy as fuck in there.
And, yeah, I lived in that area for a couple years.
Wow, crazy, man.
You've seen some shit then.
Yeah, well, I wanted to ask you guys some questions
because back then for me, this is, I would say, 98 to 2000 maybe.
The Texada time warp was pretty huge.
I had friends on the island there that were always hooking me up and stuff.
But is that still kicking?
Are those people still doing stuff?
So I recently, in the last six years, spent two years living in Gilles Bay
on Texada Island.
I spent two years in Powell River as well.
I was growing on Texada, actually.
And so I can let you know unequivocally this is a true story
because I met the folks.
So there was a family, essentially, in the 70s that had the original cut in 79.
And that cut was pretty much kept or passed down or IBL'd,
to be quite frank, up until about late 80s.
And then there was other cuts that were just called time warp
because you could get the money from them.
So that was really tough.
But the original family still lives on the island.
Third generation pop farmer is still there.
They're still growing.
It's not the original.
The original has been lost for decades.
But it is of that line.
And now, like, pine warp, pine berry.
I mean, there's a lot of really classic cultivars that come out of that area.
Again, I mean, it's funny, Texada is just one of these wacky places, man,
that exists in the world and you really don't believe it
until you actually see it for yourself, right?
There's two cops on the island.
That's it.
I lived on Salt Spring Island for a summer.
And, like, they don't have cops at all.
They'll have cops show up on a Tuesday, and they drive around the island,
and they leave.
And essentially, like, the mentality is if you're not hurting another person,
we don't give a fuck.
So there was, like, a peyote church there.
There was a lot of shit there.
That's rad, dude.
I mean, it was just, like, complete freedom, you know, on those islands.
Gulf Islands are a unique and beautiful and amazing place to be.
Back in those days, too, right, the early 90s,
Laskeetee was, like, they were pumping tons of dope off Laskeetee.
Yeah, well, they're known for having, like, the Mighty Might,
the Laskeetee Mighty Might.
Yeah, Norm from Arthrology.
I don't know if you're going way back now,
but there was kind of a dispensary called Arthrology before there were
dispensaries, and this guy named Norm from Laskeetee Island,
he was one of the guys that kind of started this.
In fact, he came out and told everybody in High Times Magazine about Laskeetee,
and God damn, the next season, the whole thing was raided by the cops.
Oh, no.
Never saw Norm back in the scene after that.
Oh, no.
Yeah.
I actually had some, but I'd heard of Laskeetee way earlier.
I had a friend that was out working at a ski or a hiking cottage,
like a helicopter and hiking cottage kind of thing in the middle of Alberta,
and he sent me some bud back that one of his buddies from Laskeetee had
brought out, and he called it Laskeetee Sweetie,
and it was some of the strongest herb that I'd smoked when I was in,
like, one of my last years of high school.
Really, really fucking potent dope.
It's, man, the weather patterns around those two islands,
Laskeetee and Texas, are their own weather patterns.
You can't get away with going deep into late September, early October,
without the rain melting everything.
Yeah.
And there's just, quite frankly,
there's not resources anymore for people to be busting,
or back then there wasn't anyways.
I mean, they got a little crazy with the helicopters a couple years when we
had some conservative governments in, but it was just freedom, man,
and you could get good money for poundage back in those days for outdoor
dope.
You know, you can't give away outdoor now.
Those were American choppers back then, though, in, like, the, you know,
94 to 96.
They were, like, the black copters, right?
Yeah, that's right.
So I'm going to jump around a little bit,
but I'm going to go back to the pop block for a second.
When Mark got busted, okay, so during that time on the pop block,
a lot of movie scenes, sets, would set up on that pop block all the time.
Like, when you see a down and dirty back alley,
it's right behind the East Hastings alley near Canby.
Like, that's in every goddamn movie.
So we were just used to it being shut down, and I had,
my seat office was about two buildings down from Cannabis Culture,
and we had an office there, you know, with administrative assistants,
and that's where we shipped everything out of.
And I had a parking spot right in the back, right beside Cannabis Culture.
I paid two bidders five bucks a day so people wouldn't piss on my car.
That's the best five bucks I ever spent.
I bet.
And so anyways, I'm just driving down there one day,
and I see a whole bunch of, like, DEA jackets and guys with balaclavas,
and there's, like, you know, barriers up, and I'm like,
oh Christ, man, are they fucking filming again?
And one of the kids who used to work at Cannabis Culture, Sean,
he comes ripping out, he said,
Kip, get the fuck out of here, you don't want to be here.
And I'm like, this is real?
Why are there balaclava DEA agents taking away a Canadian citizen?
Yeah, that doesn't make any sense.
Yeah, it was ludicrous, man.
Like, the party was over after that, you know.
We felt so free and so, you know,
wonderful about what we had done and quite entitled, to be quite frank.
And the fact that our government was going to allow a foreign government's
police force to come up and arrest a Canadian national
for something that the Canadians themselves wouldn't bust them on
was abhorrent and insane.
Even if he was a shitbag.
Yeah, even if he was a shitbag, exactly.
It's not the point, right?
What he is personally, what he was doing, he shouldn't have been arrested for.
He should have been arrested for 10,000 other things he could have been arrested for, but not that.
Yeah.
You know, and I remember, Ryan, were you part of that at that point
when we all got together at John's?
No, I was up island with DJ on that day.
I remember, I remember I was right at that moment that you're talking about.
I think he called me pretty much right away.
Yeah.
I was sitting around with, funnily enough, Charles Scott and DJ Short up on Baker and Marley.
Everybody's favorite.
Oh, Reaper Man.
Oh, Lord.
Yeah, no, that was a bizarre thing.
We were invited to go up there, so Dan and I drove up and spent the night in the teepee up there.
But it just happened to be that very day.
And I remember all three of our phones rang within like 30 seconds of each other.
And it was some person in the community, Mark's getting arrested.
You know, and we were with Charles and he was, you know,
selling stuff down to the States at that point in time too.
So, you know, we wanted to make a pretty hasty retreat from there
because we thought that that place might be next, right?
Yeah.
Well, as Mark was the largest seed seller in North America at the time,
our company was number two.
So we were genuinely freaked out at that point.
Oh, I'm sure.
There was a number of us that were in the cannabis community,
the owners of Blump Brothers, Karen Watson, myself,
another couple of key big growers in town that all ended up at John Conroy's farm,
a very famous cannabis lawyer,
won many constitutional challenges in Canada.
And there's all of us sitting there and John is like doing triage.
We're all freaked out and John's kind of trying to talk us down.
And I remember one of us saying,
well I wish they would have just given us a heads up, you know,
before they did this.
And John looks at us all, he's like, they just did, asshole.
Fair enough, fair enough, John.
Yeah, funnily enough too.
I mean, another thing that was just a weird, bizarre coincidence was that the,
Jorge Cervantes and the High Times crew had been up filming this BC Bud video,
High Times BC Bud video, you know, when George used to dress up in the rascals.
Yeah, yeah.
And so another set of business friends of ours had bought the bank across the
street from Mark Emery's shop, right?
It was like this two story old, like, you know,
early 1900s built bank with a vault and they were going to turn it into a club.
And as that was like, you know, the process was coming together
and they were raising money to get the club together.
It was sitting empty.
So George and co built a grow room in this bank across the street from fucking
Emery's shop just as something we could use as a stage, right?
So that we can film this video.
It wasn't, it was never going to get lit up and put in plans, but we,
we built it so for the video you can show this is how to build a grow room
kind of thing.
Sure.
Little do we know the DEA are all over the fucking block, right?
Like I'm pulling up in my, in my Explorer and unloading all this grow equipment
into the fucking bank across the street.
And the DEA are staking it, like they literally hit the,
hit the store across the street like two days later.
It was crazy times, man.
Yeah.
It definitely kind of was an end of an era to be quite frank when, when,
when, you know,
Mark got popped and then Blum brothers burnt down like all within a matter of
six months of happening that the, basically the, the,
the pop block scene was done and no one felt safe down there anymore.
You know, some of the gangs had kind of taken over the street level,
cannabis trade and weren't making it as safe as it used to be.
And yeah, just quite frankly, everyone kind of went their own way.
You know, at that point, Ryan, you've been living in van for how long?
Well, it was, must've been like 2005. So yeah, just a couple of years.
Yeah. And you know, we,
my partner Karen Watson was still running the Sativa sisters kind sanctuary,
which was a pot bed and breakfast, which was so much fun. Yeah, man,
just having yanks come up and,
and letting them be so free and watching the stress melt off their face when
like, as soon as they got to the place,
like an in-house dealer came in and asked them what they wanted, you know,
I'd meet them for seeds and,
and then they would have all these just hang out at the beach and go down to
the pot block or, you know,
but that was kind of closing up at that point in the game. And you know,
we were still running legends but I was, you know,
it was getting a little long in the tooth, you know, I was not really,
I was tired of looking over my shoulder.
I ended up opening up a store called high end and it was right in Kitsilano.
And it was kind of, it was called cannabis couture.
Maybe a little far ahead of its time.
We had like $5,000 Jason Lee pieces in there.
Just ridiculous.
Like you have to be a super rich like cannabis hippie to become a doorstep
cannabis nerd on top of that.
A little Canada nerd, man.
Like we were selling the very first volcanoes out of there. Oh wow.
And we had bamboo clothing, organic clothing,
but we were selling seeds out of there and there was a pizza hut right across
the goddamn street. And there was these two undercovers.
They would just sit there and take pictures of us like every day for months.
And I get followed home and you know,
we'll be trashing burner phones every two weeks.
And I looked at my partner at one point in the game and I was just like,
I don't want to do this anymore, man. Like it's just stressing me out.
I just kind of met the woman I ended up marrying and having a child with.
And I was like, you know what, man,
I think I'm just going to tap out because the Harper was in,
things were not happening on the scene in the scene anymore.
I was getting tired of getting followed home every night.
I sold,
I ended up selling legends to a bunch of kids who ran it into the ground
within about four months.
And then I basically took a bit of a break from cannabis for about seven
years in the industry.
Anyways, I got into the wine business and did that.
And it wasn't until my brother-in-law kind of got me back into it.
That's about six years ago that I kind of came back in,
but I guess that one big piece,
I guess we're missing is that piece where we, we worked with the DJ.
And that was kind of happening just the 2002, 2003.
So I had met Dan years previous in Vancouver.
He was up through a mutual business partner, friend of ours.
You know,
obviously knew him from the beginning and he was a big fan of the
flow. I mean, the guy was a bloody legend.
Not only was he a legend,
but one of the kindest most giving human beings you'll ever meet his
time, his information, his ears.
He listened like he wasn't there to tell you about what he's done in his
life.
He was there to, we want to generally know about you,
what your scene was.
And, and then, you know,
I knew him for years and he was a legend.
And I was like,
I'm going to tell you about the guy who was a legend.
And I was like,
I'm going to tell you about the guy who was a legend.
And, and then, you know, I knew him for years and I,
I learned new shit about him all the time.
Cause he kept his cards pretty close to his chest.
Yeah.
And anyways, you know, he, we,
we met when we were over in Switzerland together,
he came out and visited us over there.
We developed this great relationship and he turned to me and said,
he said, you know, it's time for me to make some new seeds.
And we were really lucky enough, my crew and myself,
to be the recipients of that contract.
We ended up making his next,
his first batch of seeds and that had been released in like 10 years,
12 years.
And that was the true blueberry, the flotica.
The chocolate one, Cocoa Kush.
No, that would have been his release.
The, his, the, the release that happened after our release.
That was probably about six or seven years after that.
That would have been, let's see what else we had.
Grape Crush.
Yeah.
And Grape Crush.
And yeah.
Yeah.
After tea and then Grape Crush.
Yeah.
And then all of the one-offs that I did for her legends back then too,
which would have been the high end,
which was the Renee cross with the blueberry.
I always chased that and can never find it.
That was brother.
You and me both.
I still, you know what?
Somebody on this podcast.
I've got 30 of those.
Oh,
yeah.
So I,
I was one of the things I would always do when I was dealing with
business,
these folks is,
is dealing with the wholesalers.
I was just trade for stock.
I mean,
I obviously sell some stock,
but you know,
it was always about offering the collection.
So anytime that I heard any of this,
like for example,
when Federation,
I heard that they were going out of business from the seed supplier.
I just traded them a bunch and collected all their old stock.
Oh,
wow.
Yeah.
So,
so yeah,
I've got all those early red legends releases as long as,
as well as the same ones that we ended up making at the same growth for
with,
with my joint projects would be day the mental floss and fighting Buddha
and all that stuff.
And,
and man guys,
some of the greatest advice I ever got from John Conroy,
our lawyer,
I see said tech.
It's like,
give me one set of advice.
That'd better be a vice.
Johnny's like,
well,
just grow West of Granville Kip.
Cause they don't bust rich people.
And this house that Ryan's talking about was literally one of the
richest parts of town.
And this old house that was overseas landlords,
big old house.
In fact,
we had like NHL hockey players,
like right beside us.
Little did anyone know that we were banging out a 10 lighter out of
there for.
Years and years and years.
And so many famous seed crops came out of that.
That's awesome.
Yeah,
it was pretty cool,
man.
So yeah,
it was like the Louie.
We did another batch of Louie out of there.
What else do we do out there?
Ryan's a blaze.
The Johnny blaze was out of there.
I still have some of them.
Man.
I close to my heart.
Cause that was a Neville's Hayes.
Yeah.
That I was given by Ari and from greenhouse seeds out of his personal
garden.
And I was like,
Yeah,
that was like right around the time he was starting that seed bank or he
was,
I mean,
he claims he was going on forever,
but really that was the start of the greenhouse seed bag.
Shanty.
I don't think had even set up and switched one at that point in time.
No.
Well,
maybe you just.
Yeah.
He was down Valley from us.
We were in Lugano and he was closer towards the border and he was down
there.
Nice guy.
I'm just so happy and thrilled that he's actually still in the game.
I actually got to meet Howard.
He is,
he's such a great man.
He's great.
He is.
He's such a great man.
I got to meet Howard in Bern at a cannabis conference
back in those days.
And he's everything you'd want him to be,
just a drunken Welshman with nothing but smiles.
And it was really hard to understand him
as he got drunker, though.
That Welsh accent's rough, man.
It is, but I just kind of smiled and nodded, yes.
Yes.
I had this great picture of us, Pete and I, Pete Young and I,
in a field in Switzerland that we camped on for months
with a big ball of hash and reading, for the first time
ever, Mr. Nice.
And then I got a chance to meet him two months after initially
reading the book.
Oh, that's wild, man.
Oh, it was so cool, man.
It was definitely a bucket list kind of thing.
Have you seen the movie?
Ah, which one?
It's called Mr. Nice.
I think it was done in the 2000s at some point.
OK, I haven't yet.
I've got to find it.
It's good.
OK, very cool.
It's good, but it's nothing compared to the book.
No, nothing compared to the book.
You know so much stuff in the book.
Yeah, yeah, the book's good.
I have a few.
I think I have one written by his wife
as well, if I remember correctly.
Yeah, she did her whole side of it, too,
which he wasn't too thrilled about.
Yeah, he bet.
I bet.
That's fantastic.
There's always another side to the story, right?
Did JD Short go out to Switzerland with you guys?
So I had come back to Canada.
I did two tours in Switzerland.
After my first tour, yeah, DJ's kid
came out and did a couple of weeks there, I believe.
Maybe two to four weeks, I think he did there.
I remember because he was the kid that
broke the pipe that won a medal at the Cannabis Cup,
this beautiful $4,000 Eddie piece from Shockwave Glass.
And yeah, he was the kid that broke it.
I'll never forget.
He felt so bad for years.
Oh, that's great.
Honestly, you know what?
I've never had a chance to meet him.
Kind of like ships passing in the night.
I haven't seen Deej.
I think the last time I talked to Deej was probably
seven years ago by email.
Yeah, we were all really, really close for a while.
Then you know how life gets.
Yeah, life takes you to different ways.
Different journeys.
Yeah.
Yeah, DJ was trying to move up to Canada
during all that time.
He and his lady at the time were trying
to actually emigrate to Canada.
They lived in the porn palace.
That's right.
This beautiful penthouse in this four-story walk-up
that had an elevator right to the bar.
That's where your front door was.
Shag carpet, gold inset inlaid mirror walls everywhere.
Oh, that's sweet.
Straight out of the late 70s.
Karen Watson actually lived there for a while.
Then she moved out from the Amsterdam.
And then she moved out and Deej and Carla, his then wife,
moved in.
So many nitrous tanks.
Who cares?
I love that joke.
Yeah, yeah.
It was that place.
There was a lot of memories lost in that place.
This is what that was.
Yeah.
Lots of memories.
Yeah, I was going to UBC at the time.
And I was living on the west side.
And actually just around, not too, too far.
I think it was about a two and a half block
walk from Deej's place.
So we spent a lot of time over there on the weekends
just hanging out and chatting and learning
about Dan's experience with drugs and psychedelics
and all these other different things.
I remember a lot of LSD touching my face.
And the Scooby snacks, too.
Oh, the Scoobies were everywhere.
Oh, man.
What are Scooby snacks?
They're like a blend of mushroom and suicide.
It was like a natural mushroomy sort of psychedelic mix.
There you go.
They came in capsules, right?
They were like came in capsules.
Oh, there you go.
Yeah, that light brown powder.
So OK, so what was it?
There was bee pollen.
Like spirulina and bee pollen.
Yeah, spirulina, ginseng, schisandra, bee pollen,
foe tuting, and 1.3 grams of kubanzis.
Hippie dust.
Yeah, exactly.
In the six caps, right?
So you could do a couple of caps or one cap,
or you could do them all if you wanted the full.
We actually, man, so in my shop, I'll talk about it now.
I didn't give it right to us.
We used to sell them out of the shop to friends and family.
We used to make cards, and you'd get stamped.
For every pack, you'd get a stamp.
And if you got 10, you got a free pack.
But what we'd do is if you wanted your friends to be able
to buy them, they had to sign the back.
You had to sign the back of their card.
So it was a mutual responsibility zone going on.
And it worked out really well.
Sometimes, on Friday nights, there
wouldn't be anybody in the store all day.
But as soon as Friday at 5 hit, the place would be packed.
That's rad, dude.
So can we talk about some of your guys' favorite work
that you've released over the years?
Maybe favorite to you.
Not necessarily high, but your favorite experience
when working a line.
What would that be for you, Red?
Man, I've got to be honest with you.
Probably growing scents up in the caribou.
Ryan was there and our friend, the cannabis cowboy.
So we were doing shade cropping and tunnel crops.
And so we'd get about three harvests out in a season.
We'd always be done and out before Labor Day,
before the helicopters started buzzing.
And plus, it would be so dry back that time of year,
back in the day when things got dry,
that you'd get a dollar for your gear.
And we were doing these shade crops.
It was kind of like greenhouse, though.
But we could pass it off as high-end bee indoor
and get some good money.
But man, I learned so much just being up in the plateau
at 5,000 feet elevation, sun beating down on us
in the middle of bloody nowhere, bears chasing us,
cattle ranch walking over our damn pits.
The TELUS blimp one day flew like 50 feet over our heads
and of course, just freaking us out.
Just drinking beers, eating good food, telling lies,
growing dope.
It was just a lot of fun, man.
Honestly, as far as that did my heart warm,
that was my favorite part
because everything else I did was very stressful.
Yeah.
But I felt safe there and it was with good friends.
And I still liked trimmers back then.
It was okay to hang out with them.
And just learning about people's experiences with the plant,
how they came to be in this crazy place
where we were trimming up to 200 or 300 pounds
of dope in a season.
Yeah, for sure.
That was one of my funnest events with cannabis.
I mean, I've had a lot of really unique experiences
and a lot of very stressful experiences with dope
because of the timeframe that my kind of life was
in this industry.
But I'd say that was probably my favorite.
What about you, Ryan?
It's kind of, you gotta love everything.
I mean, I always say when people ask me
what your favorite cultivar,
I mean, it's like children.
They become like your children.
So you kind of love them all for a different reason.
But yeah, for me, it's just always screening,
the screening and looking to see what the process did
and trying to understand the patterns of inheritance
and getting to explore new traits that you don't like.
I mean, I got this one girl going on right now.
We're doing a sour diesel sweet skunk screen
of like 150 seedlings.
And sour diesel, like the ECSD cut is all fuel, right?
Yep.
And this is the first time that I've really grown
these ones out in large selection.
And man, it's just like that nose profile
from the sour D just got stomped on.
Oh, really?
By the sweet skunk.
Yeah, like you'd think that fueliness
was just dominant over this.
But I've seen it a few times.
Like you get the surprise a few times
when you make a cross and it just comes out completely
unexpected to what you'd be looking at.
But within that,
there's always these new interesting nose profiles, right?
Yeah.
Whether it's a combination of esters and chirps
or whatever it is,
there's some really interesting sense in there.
So that's kind of always been my favorite thing
is doing it that way.
It's a totally different experience
having the lab to lay on top of that too, right?
Oh yeah.
Because then you can just,
the gains that you can make when you have
chemical fingerprints, both cannabinoids and terpenes
of the plants that you're mating together.
It's really remarkable.
Yeah, that's one step I've never taken,
including lab results and all that stuff
while you're doing the breeding
and going through the progeny.
That is so valuable.
Yeah, well, and you can kind of do it
when you're doing it with the females,
you can kind of do it with your nose.
But when we were using males in the past,
you're really fucking hitting blind.
Yeah, you are.
You're waiting to see if the progeny
carried on the traits you want.
If not, you gotta start over.
Well, and often even trying to evaluate like a male plant,
the male plants don't really demonstrate
those traits anyway, right?
No, you're right, yeah.
That's just morphological
and that's a guess at that too, right?
Yeah, and we've done all sorts of things
like trying to spray Ethafon on the plants
and try to get them to produce female flowers.
And they do that, but Ethafon also changes
the terpene profile as well.
Yes.
So it's a hint at what you're doing.
Just the smallest rips.
Yeah, and you don't know if it's gonna breed true
for that trait.
And that's the whole thing is that even when you do have
the fingerprint in the lab,
say you've got three plants that all look the same
in the, or they look almost the same,
they smell almost the same.
And let's call them plants one, two, and three.
You drop plant one to plant two
and plant one to plant three,
and plant two to plant three and you grow them all out,
you can actually realize that even though all those plants,
they look the same and they smell the same,
one of them had genes from another smell and look.
So one cross, they don't end up looking the same.
Whereas like, if they cross two to one,
they all look the same, they smell the same.
So they can, genotype can essentially hide
behind chemotype, right?
Yeah, yeah.
But chemotype is a good predictor, but it's not 100%.
That's right.
But yeah, when you breed chemotype to chemotype,
the differences between crossing a blind male
to a chemotype is just night and day, right?
And you really can start stabilizing things
and making your seed lots that much more uniform.
It's fucking expensive, dude.
I bet, dude.
That's the one thing that's precluded me from doing it.
Yeah, well, and even if you do it in-house
and you can get your consumables cost down
to say like 25, 30 bucks a sample,
you wanna run a thousand plants, that's fucking $25,000.
Yeah, that's a serious project.
Yeah, well, it's probably more than the weed
is worth from the crop.
Absolutely, yeah.
So it's a hard thing to justify to be able to do,
but when you do do it, the gains are undeniable.
Oh yeah.
Right.
And this is what's gonna have to happen moving forward
in the Canadian scene.
If these companies don't start putting money into R&D
and really starting to look at the same five flavor profiles
that are prodigious throughout the entire goddamn ministry
up here in Canada right now, then we're doomed.
And I think that the smarter companies
are starting to figure that out.
And I really hope that to be true as well,
to be quite frank,
because I'm tired of smoking the same old shit.
And if I push this, push that, cookie this, cookie that,
I'm done.
Yeah, and you guys, I think the States
has always been a little more advanced
than Canada has in that.
And I think that the real reason is you guys
have a client base or a market or consumer base
that's willing to spend 500 bucks an hour.
Yeah, yeah.
Some places for sure.
Some places, I mean, New York used to be like $7,000 a pound
for seven years, right?
I mean, that was a period of time,
but you'd never get that kind of money in Canada, right?
But people who just couldn't afford
wouldn't pay that kind of money.
And when you do spend that kind of money,
it allows you to put all those nice,
beautiful finishing touches
and grow the small yielding varieties
with the exciting flavor profiles.
But it will be interesting to see which mistakes
the developing legal market follows
in the same way that we did in Canada.
The pub co-ification,
like these big corporate companies coming in
and trying to take over the industry,
they don't have the same view of the marketplace
the way that the consumers do.
And so I think markets in California,
they're gonna be able to maintain,
but some of these less developed markets,
as they come online,
I think that they're gonna suffer a lot of the same places.
Because the governments,
they don't wanna give out a hundred license.
They wanna give out two, three licenses,
and then you only have to monitor a few groups.
Yeah, absolutely.
But if all those groups are like big corporate dudes
that are just trying to pump out
like a million square feet of flour,
your quality is gone, right?
Because it's like you can't do that much bulk
and maintain the level of quality that you expect.
Yeah.
And I noticed a lot of these companies,
the major corporate companies,
they're coming into a market
that they just clearly don't understand,
and they don't understand the characters in the market.
And usually the first people that they run into
are the people that have also no understanding of the market
but they sell themselves as that,
premier master breeder grower.
And that's been a big problem in the US,
is that most of these big corporations
hire whoever comes first with the best sales pitch.
And anybody that they end up hiring after
usually has to clean up the mess of the first one,
which is a double task.
Oh man, you speak in my language.
I knew it.
I knew it.
No idea some of the messes
that have been had to be cleaned up up here.
It's really like, you know,
you're sure there's a lot of people that have made money
but there's a lot of people that have lost their shirt.
Oh yeah.
You know.
It's constant.
You're just going in with the wrong grower.
You know, I remember doing a tour in Colorado
and I went and saw this place
and I was touring a bunch of different facilities
and this lighting company asked me to come by and see theirs
and they had a grower
who claimed to have written the book on LED growing.
He actually had a book,
how to grow Merrill cannabis and LEDs
or something like that.
And dude, the plants look so fucked up.
Like they were having serious nutrient deficiencies,
pH issues.
Yeah.
And you could walk in, I saw it right away.
I was like, oh, your pH is way too low.
You're locking out magnesium and calcium
and you know, the plants are just crazy stressed.
And so I was, the boss was like,
hey, can you walk through our facility
and have a look and tell me what's going on?
And I was like, okay, grower guy,
like what's the pH going on?
He's like, I don't know.
We don't have a pH meter.
What?
And I was like, he's like, well, we got one
but it's on that shelf when nobody ever uses it.
I was like, go get your fucking pH meter, calibrate it.
Didn't have calibration solutions.
So I sent him out to the grow store to get like,
you know, distilled water
and calibration solutions for his pH meter.
And he came back and we ran this test
but it was like, you know, he was,
he had been spinning this tale of lies to the investors
about what was going wrong.
And truth was that he was completely fucking incompetent
as a grower way over his head in like a facility
is like, you know, 50, 60,000 watt facility
and just had no clue what he was doing at all.
Right.
And, and story after story.
And I pulled the owner's side and I said
it was the first time I'd ever done it.
I felt really bad.
But I was like, you guys need to fire this dude.
Like you need to fucking get rid of this grower
because he's fucking up your show.
He's fucking up your investment.
Right.
And, but it's, you see it.
I mean, and it's not just in the growth side.
It's in the sales side.
It's in the processing side.
It's in the marketing side.
It's again, because, because again,
you get these peoples that come from, you know
consumer packaged goods from CPG
and they're used to running these big companies
just treating like whatever product it is, like a widget
and applying the same, you know
supply chain procedures to that.
And you can't do that with cannabis, right?
Cannabis is like shipping fresh strawberries.
It's not like shipping like widgets from China.
Exactly.
Right.
And the whole supply chain needs to respect that
like the distributors and everybody.
Otherwise you're, you're beautiful fresh strawberries.
They end up fucking squashed and molding by the time,
you know, they're, they're in front of the consumer
and, you know, developing these supply chains.
And essentially you're building out a whole industry
from scratch.
It's like, there's all these iterations
that have to go on, right?
Yeah.
Well, on top of everything, then we have a provincial
and federal oversight here in Canada
which is stifling innovation, stifling
moving the needle on the industry forward.
In fact, in some respects it's pushing it backwards.
The fact that we as in a province have to sell
to a provincial board is fucking insane.
That is insane.
I didn't know that.
It's insane.
Like, so this 25, 25 year old girl
who's got a government job and is in charge of saying yes
or no to the skews that I bring to, to, to the province
to be able to sell for my small cannabis course.
She's going to tell me what she thinks she's going to
what they're going to sell
because her last job is a best buy.
I mean, give me a break.
Yeah.
Like it's insane.
And it's, it's, it's downright criminal.
People have invested their lives
millions and millions of dollars.
And then they grow a crop
and they bring it to a provincial board.
The board says, no, we've already got three
three other Sensi stars.
We don't want your fourth one.
Sorry.
Well, but why, why can't I just go right
to the store and sell it to them then?
Yeah.
There's so much more that needs to be done up here.
Wow.
But it's Canada, man.
Like we love government.
Yeah.
That's the thing with, with oversight like that.
It does stifle progression in all industry.
Too much oversight.
Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah.
I think people would be remiss if I don't ask Red
about Ortega and your experience with your Ortega.
My experience with Ortega.
Well, when I was over in Switzerland
that was the first time I'd heard about Ortega.
We, I was with a business partner over there
in a project and another one
of our potential business partners flew
over from California with a couple cuts right into
right into Zurich.
And then they met his time in Ghana.
You can say, you can say what it was.
It was Ed Bros and all.
Sorry, fair enough.
I mean, geez, poor Ed.
I think I like, yeah, I literally
I think it was like in a backpack.
It was hilarious.
So the two cuts that he brought over were Ortega
and what ended up being grapefruit, which was crazy
because yeah, right.
A cultivar we were very familiar with
and it was a pure Ortega cut.
So Ortega also there was Ortega one, two
and three put out by Neville.
Neville's last batches he collected
in California for seed bank originals
which was one of legends first companies
that we ended up carrying.
I carried Ed seeds in Southern tier
and then Neville seeds and seed bank originals
that were in Ed's care and Ortega one, two
and three, which was a hash plant cross.
Okay, Ryan, help me out here.
I can't remember which was with.
Northern lights, hash plants.
I can't remember the other one.
The NL hash plant was the one that he told me personally.
He's like, that is the most potent thing I ever bred.
Well, I gotta be honest with you.
The only from how much time I spent
with the plant was with the original Ortega mother cut.
Okay.
And that one made to this day, the best hash
that ever came out of one of those little hash shakers.
You remember those goofy little things
where you put the buds in a little screen
you ship it, ship it, ship it.
Okay, so we have one of those over there in Switzerland.
And we would always be clamoring
to get the Ortega bud into this
because it made that black sticky gooey
like almost import style hash that I love so much.
And it was a hammer of a plant.
Obviously we didn't have labs and things
that we had access to back then
but my best guess is gonna be heavily Miracene dominant
because it made me sleepy as a motherfucker.
But I mean, and the size of the resin heads were massive.
You look underneath the microscope,
they were huge compared to the other cultivars
that we were growing.
Not, we ended up crossing the Ortega mother
with the sweet tooth number three at the time.
And that became-
It was the BX2P1.
Sorry?
It was the BX2P1, same guy.
Sorry, my fault.
Hey, this is why Ryan's here.
He's got a way better memory than I do.
And we created the legends ultimate Indica.
I remember that.
I still have seeds of it too, luckily.
That's very cool.
Those tiny little pinhead seeds.
The Louis was a really, really popular strain
for our company for years.
And the cuts, we had a clone house in Van
and we pumped out thousands and thousands
of cuts a month out of that.
They got to the point that I think we killed
our own market within a year.
No one wanted it anymore.
Yeah, absolutely.
And every broker had Louis.
Because it was a heavy yielder.
It was light green.
Check out the boxes as far as buyers.
Yeah, you'd cut the tops at six weeks, right?
You'd have to.
You'd have to cut the tops at six weeks
and they'd be gone.
Wow.
Right, it was still big.
And that was just the selected Fina that you guys had
from, it was the bulky Fina.
Yeah, but my guess is that,
and I know I was bashing Kush earlier,
but my guess is that the Ortega is probably
some form of Kush from way back when
because just the potency alone
and the structure itself, they were buttons.
It was like a little bush with buttons.
There was no cola structure to them really.
And they're just a pile of buttons.
We grew it outdoors.
We grew it indoors.
I became very familiar with the plant.
You know, a small part of me would love to see that out
and about again, but as I get older,
to be quite frank, my flavor profiles tend more
towards the equatorials and more towards the lemon,
the piney and so.
And my favorite one right now is cedarine.
That is crazy.
We're seeing it starting to come in piles of cedar ways.
Cedarine.
Cedarine, that's popping out in cannabis?
Like what kind of strains pop out the cedarine?
Mother of all berries.
Oh yeah, yeah, I have that cut.
Yeah.
Yeah, mother of all berries.
And what's the other one?
Not granddaddy perps.
No, it's planet of the grapes and mother of berries.
Those are the two that I've seen the cedarine
very dominant actually in the COAs.
And man, can you ever taste it?
And it's an exciting kind of new flavor profile
that is becoming more dominant
that I've really gotten excited about.
Because it's just, again, something different.
It's something new.
Something new and unique, yeah.
Yeah, it's not just smack you over the head
with Nierstein and Pita Care.
Yeah, yeah, right.
And the same old same old,
which is 80% of the shit I see every day.
But again, I mean, that goes to equatorials
you don't make money on if you're a commercial grower.
Time-wise, yield-wise.
I keep threatening Ryan.
I say, I'm gonna get out of this goddamn business
and then open up a micro
and just call it the house of haze.
Have two drops a year, it'd be like 16 weekers.
That's it, man.
Call it a day.
Just, it's so old school.
The seed markets actually slowly,
and I credit a lot to Chimera and Bodhi, both of them,
from doing work with equatorial sativas over the years.
I think that people are finally starting to realize
there is unique highs that you can never reach
in an eight week plan or a nine week plan
that you can get with these equatorial sativas.
And there's slowly a niche market forming,
which is really awesome.
I agree.
I mean, I'm starting to see,
when you're talking about more equatorial leading cultivars
things like, that are terpeneline dominant.
To me, I'm a terpeneline junkie.
It's like doing a line of herbal Coke.
Vacuum my house in one shot.
You're seeing that our customers and our patients
in this scene here in Canada,
they're starting to be a bit of a segment.
They're starting to understand
and be able to differentiate these flavor profiles
and say, hey, you know what?
I don't want something that's just gonna couch lock me
all goddamn day.
I want something that's gonna be a little zippier,
a little more fruit forward or floral in that sense.
Yeah.
And yeah, if you ever get a chance to,
you know, to look at that flavor profile with a seeder
and get all over it, man,
cause it's really, it's really-
I just did some work with Mother of All Berries too.
So I'm gonna check that out.
Yeah.
Nice, very cool.
Yeah.
So you guys wanna go into the blues.
Your experience with blues.
Yeah, sure.
It's, I mean, when we did the seeds for DJ
back in the early 2000s,
I was floored at the variation.
I mean, it was nuts.
It felt like every plant was some different new cultivar.
It wasn't coming out of the same seed,
but the leaf variegation was like riddled throughout.
Sure is.
You know, you would see stuff that was super aphid
and then you would see stuff that really
kind of probably leaned towards that equatorial Oaxacan
size, that chocolate tie even.
I mean, you really believe Dan's, you know,
historical background on how he came to get these cultivars
together because you saw them in the progeny.
Yeah, you can see a lot of the variation for sure.
Absolutely.
It was the seeds that we got,
I don't know how they arrived in Canada,
but my understanding was that these were the seeds
that actually came back from Hank at Dutch Passion.
So DJ essentially reclaimed these seeds
went after their deal.
Was it Dutch Passion?
It was Saga Martha.
Saga Martha.
Was it Tony?
He worked with both.
It was Hank.
It was Hank, brother.
No, no, no.
It was Saga Martha.
It was Tony.
Cause he first, he did a deal with,
remember Saga Martha was selling the blueberry at first.
Yeah.
And then Dutch Passion.
And then Hank took it over.
Yeah.
Okay. Okay.
And so those seeds had come back to Canada.
And in this little,
I think it was actually like a 12 or a 15 lighter.
They grew like, I don't know,
must've been like 350 or 400 plants or something like that.
You talking about over at G-Funks?
At G-Funks, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
That, yeah, there was, there was 350 seeds
and we had to pick males and all the different lines.
Picking males, man, that rubber smell.
Remember that bloody rubber smell?
Yeah.
Well that, to me,
the whole line was filled with the rubber scents
and the chocolate as well.
Are you talking about the males?
Yeah.
Specifically?
Yeah.
Also in the females though as well.
When you rub the stalks of the males,
it just smelled like burnt rubber.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I'm always rubbing males like that.
Like cow milking, yes.
But I mean, there was some really unique stuff.
I mean, we were looking for early bars
cause we were growing for growers back then.
It's not a breed for growers back then, not for customers,
which is a whole different headset, right?
Sure is.
I remember, Jesus, Ryan,
we must've had about 60 males that we got down to
and we were trying to select from those.
And I mean, we were taking shots in the dark, guys.
Of course, yeah.
With males, you are.
Especially males.
You gotta remember too,
that DJ was also still down in Oregon at the time.
So he'd try to come up,
but over an eight week, 10 week crop,
you're not there enough.
Now I got a quick question to interject.
So with DJ, in his book,
he is quoted as saying he would take two opposite plants.
So constantly making an F1 type,
but doing that in each successive generation.
Do you think that's what kept up the variability
while also inbreeding in odd ways?
Yeah, I mean, to me, I look at it like,
I'd look at his whole catalog as a family.
Yeah.
Right, and then the individual lines are really like,
it's all intermixed.
Right?
But it kept the variation so high while inbreeding.
Yeah, but inbreeding, I mean,
it fixed some traits, but it didn't fix a lot of traits.
Yeah, yeah, sure.
There's definitely a downside to doing it that way.
Sure.
It's an interesting individual,
but it's a very art-based method of seed production.
Put it that way.
Yeah, it's a very unique take on breeding, for sure.
Yeah.
But at the time, that was cutting edge.
At least he was doing it.
Somebody was doing it.
Yeah, yeah, there was no renewal.
Well, and he was doing it on his own.
That's, I think, to me,
the most important thing about DJ's work
is that he made his top crosses,
he curated his family,
and then never added genes from the outside.
Yeah, that was so interesting.
It's fascinating.
Right, and that's really where, to me, the value lies,
because that, to me, that family is inbred.
Yeah.
But when you out-cross it, that's where it shines.
Yeah, that's what I found.
And it made me obsessed with the blue line.
And understandably so.
I mean, all the crosses we did,
and other seed banks did with Dan's stuff,
all became like these really incredible
and famous bars that went down the line.
I mean, Jesus.
God, I mean, how many,
I mean, this has been obviously sweet tooth,
but I mean, all of the stuff that we did with Legends
with that B133 male, they were all bangers.
And I mean, I loved, I never got a chance to recreate
any of them that was kind of a one-off.
But I mean, still always chasing that grape crush.
Remember that grape crush, Ryan?
That B25?
Was it B25?
Yeah.
What was that mom like?
It literally, from 10 feet away,
it smelt like someone just cracked open a can of grape crush
and it was so sweet.
It was so strong.
And it was the bud structure was incredible.
It was a decent yielder.
It didn't have that funky variegation.
It wasn't, it doesn't have that mutation to it.
It was literally like the shining star
in the right-hand corner.
Yeah, it had this really neat star morphology too.
Like the round was kind of like,
it's kind of odd to say, but it's like,
it kind of looked like the top was kind of like smooth,
like the Bezos rocket.
Yeah, yeah.
But even like the leaves that were coming up,
like the subtending leaflets,
like they weren't triangular.
They were more like ovoid.
They were kind of round.
Yeah.
Right.
And yeah, and they had this like purple ring
kind of around the edge of the leaflet.
And it was like a nice kind of lavender purple color.
That's so pretty.
Like almost, almost into the blue.
It was, it was one of the rare ones
that were almost in the blue rather than the purple.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, that's hard to find in the blues,
the blue colors, blue hues.
The sweet blue was probably the most variated plant
that came out of that room going down.
I mean, no two plants were the same out of that,
out of those seeds.
And to this day, I still see people online
growing the sweet blue and there's so much variation.
I think I still have some of those.
Now that's the sweet skunk blue.
Yeah, the sweet, I mean,
cause the sweet skunk itself is all over the map.
Yeah.
Imagine adding Danny's, Danny's male to it.
You're just going to get nothing
but a complete whack of individuals,
but obviously some massive winners
and then some massive losers too.
Like where you get those plants
that's just bracket on top of bracket.
Yeah.
You know, make great hash.
And I'm glad you had that nice one joint
from that whole plant.
And one of you guys actually did S1s
of the B130 male, right?
I did, yeah.
Oh, that's cool to keep.
That's cool to keep.
Yeah, I still got those in there.
And that would show up regular sex using a reverse male?
Both.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Both males and females.
Yeah.
Yeah, that makes sense.
No, I'm excited to get into Ryan's,
read the rest of Ryan's bank
once it gets set up in one spot
and to really get a crack at what's in there
because it's like opening up a history book
and not only that,
but you're creating new history by doing it as well.
I can't even imagine.
I was just going through the list the other day,
actually yesterday, and it's like,
there's some shit that I just totally forgot
that was in there.
Well, this is the thing though,
because I really believe this to be true
is that back in the day, we bred for flavor.
Okay.
So, and that was our whole mantra, bred for flavor.
What people breed for now is for COA numbers,
28 to 31s.
So basically-
And IG pictures, Instagram pictures.
Right, and IG pictures.
You're absolutely right.
There's no flavor.
It's about how high,
perceived how high can I get from this 29% THC plant.
And it's driving me nuts
because you're drawing from one small population
and it's Cush-based, it's cookies-based probably.
If they're all the same flavor profiling,
I see these COAs come across my desk all day.
That's all I do is look at weed COAs.
And I can tell,
because Ryan's taught me to be quite frank,
how to read these things properly.
You can see the family lines and it's all the same.
May have 20 different names,
but it's all the same damn plant
because they're breeding for that number.
I want to see and go back to breeding for flavor
and breeding for flavor profiling,
because that's what to me makes cannabis unique
and interesting.
And then you can go from there
and then have all these different flavored hashes
and live resin and live rosin
that we didn't have back in the day
that we could actually breed
for specific end use products.
But it's not going to happen
until R&D becomes the main focus of these companies.
And people are just going to be growing
the same old tired shit all the time.
It's the same way in the cut flower industry.
If you're a grower that grows cut flowers,
you don't breed plants.
It's a specific model.
Even down in Salinas,
when I was down there a few years ago working,
there was a grower that was growing
the Phalaenopsis thaliana, the orchid.
Yeah, yeah.
Orchid that you see everywhere
with the nice pretty leaves
and all the different patterns on it.
And they're actually the only orchid producer
in North America.
Might even be the world,
but it was definitely in North America
that grows orchids from seed.
Yeah, that's a hard thing to do.
I used to be an orchid collector
and growing orchids from seed is not fucking easy.
Yeah, so what they do is
they grow everything from seed
and then they sort it by color
and they submit it that way.
And then anything that's new and special,
they send into tissue culture
and they get, you know,
they put it into the TC process
so they can get millions
once you find that unique flower.
But yeah, that's their process.
They just grow everything from seed rather than from clone.
But then it's cool that there's somebody doing that.
But if they weren't doing that,
everybody else is growing from tissue culture, right?
So as you know, once you're growing from tissue culture,
it's great for producing, you know,
armies of the same plant that are sterile,
but you can't get anything new from it, right?
The only way to get anything new
is to be growing from seed.
Yeah.
So to me, I really see that as a unique business model.
Yeah, that's pretty cool too.
Knowing the orchid,
I collected orchids for so many years
and knowing how hard that is to do,
that's a really interesting, unique business model.
Yeah, I can't remember the name of the grower,
but you should, if you're down in like the Salinas
or Monterey area, you should go and check out their grow.
Yeah, I need to go up there soon.
It's pretty cool.
So I got a question for you, my son.
So down in California, I mean, how often,
like how much time does a cultivar get down there
before it's out of favor?
Like what's the average timelines?
Dude, okay, so I wanna say there's at least
a eight to nine year run that we've been seeing
on the most popular stuff.
So like, I think it's getting a lot slower,
whereas, you know, like it gets popular in California,
you'll see it kind of chase up to the other states
four or five years.
Used to be eight to nine years
before it started hitting all the states,
hitting the high times magazine,
stuff that we favor down here.
But now it's getting faster.
I mean, the OG Kush, I'm shocked that OG Kush
is still in so demand.
It's had the longest run, I think,
out of any of the clones down here.
Before that, it was like Hogsbreath, P91, stuff like that.
You know, that was real popular in Southern California,
but now you couldn't even find most of that stuff
if you wanted to, except in seed form now, you know.
But OG Kush has stood the test of time, cookies.
I think, I don't know, is that the new OG?
It's gonna be around forever and everybody's just gonna
not be able to get high after their first hit?
Well, this is why I ask, because in Canada,
you got nine months with the cultivar before,
no one wants it anymore.
Wow.
Yeah, it's partially the distribution branches,
but it's, I mean, it is a fucked up situation.
I think what happened is, in the past,
it was the opposite way.
There was more variation and more different types
of branded cannabis on the dispensary shelf,
just because, I mean, California,
your dispensary market was way more into a professional
CPG type system where you had real products.
Like you had potato chips and soda pops and coffee bars
and everything, right?
Great vape, Shatter, Rosin, I mean, you had it all.
And our rollout of dispensaries was a hell of a lot less
professional, more flower-based, no real,
I would say, finished products like that.
And I think that now that we've got legalization
and that brought in the advent of all these different types
of products, and so I think it's almost as if
the Canadian buyer, or at least the distributor,
the liquor distribution buyers are a lot more fickle.
It's like, if it's not new, they don't want it.
It's like Kip said earlier, it's like,
our liquor distribution brands, how many types of Merlot
or Pinot Noir do you think that they keep on their shelves?
Like hundreds of different producers.
Whereas in the cannabis business, it's like,
if you already got two producers growing a named variety,
they don't want that named variety anymore.
And does that lead to lots of name changing,
or is that even possible in the cannabis market?
Time.
Yeah, it's huge here too.
It's ridiculous.
But what's weird here is that they'll change an OG name
to another OG name, and then you have 90 kinds of OG,
and this is for reals, any dispensary in California,
you go in, you'll have half the menu,
if not three quarters of the menu, OG Kush.
Yeah.
Different kinds, you know?
Yeah, and how do you sort through that as a consumer?
Shit, I have no clue.
Usually it's all the same cut anyways.
Well, I'll tell you how they do it, they buy price.
I look at point of sale data every Monday morning
for every province in this country.
Oh, what were people buying?
My answer, the cheapest shit they can.
Yeah, yeah.
There's only about 8% to 12% of us
that are buying the expensive stuff.
Everybody else is buying the cheapest shit.
And they frankly don't care what it is.
Yeah, and that's a funny thing about this industry
is that you hear everybody,
at least all these industry people talk about
how everybody only wants the top end
and the cream of the crop.
But the truth is, is like they're allowed 5%, right?
Like those guys, everybody that's talking about that,
yeah, that might be true for your small market, right?
But the truth is, is when you look
at the aggregate market data, people want Budweiser.
Yeah, they still sell brickweed
in our dispensaries here in my city.
Really?
Compressed brickweed is available.
Would that be considered an import?
Yes, it's a great surprise.
I mean, really, it's crazy.
Like I look down and I see literal compressed brick
every single collective I've ever been into
in Bakersfield, it's crazy.
Wow, thrown across the universe.
It leads to this fake, you know, that whole OG thing,
just to go back there for a second,
it leads to this really fake situation
where it's like the appearance of diversity, right?
It's like you have the appearance of choice,
but like, yeah, there's all these different names,
but it's all the same.
For sure.
And then really like, you know,
they might even exclude like the best version of the OG,
right?
It's like the distribution board says,
now we've already got three of those,
we don't wanna stock it anymore.
And they're probably turning away the best one, right?
Simply not qualified to judge what cannabis
should be on the shelves and what shouldn't.
It's a completely flawed system,
and it's not gonna change until the provinces
get out of the way.
And when's the last time a province wanted to give away
a cask cow that they've got right now?
Exactly.
And unfortunately, quite simply put,
the only time these kinds of things are taken away
or given back into private hands
is when conservative governments take control.
And so you take a good bit of that.
That is a double-edged sword.
Yeah, right?
So, but you know, my point was,
is that here in Canada,
so you get a nine month run with one var
before you just stop selling, right?
Because people are done with it,
they want the new next thing.
How do you support a breeding program
when it takes you a year and a half
to come up with a cut and it's done in nine months?
Yeah.
There's no return on investment.
No.
It's all, everything, me and a lot of the other guys
that produce big seeds here in the United States,
a lot of us all kind of,
it's all a shot in the dark right now.
Everything is a shot in the dark and hoping,
and a lot of suck it, hyping shit.
Like, I suck at that.
Like, I feel like a used car salesman,
so I don't like doing it.
I don't want to do it.
And if you don't do that,
and you don't wear the jewels in front like you're rich,
you're not going anywhere and you're not hyping anything
and you're not starting a hype, you know?
Yeah.
How ridiculous is that?
Hey, fuck.
It's just the thing that I've hated
about the seed market since for so long.
Yeah.
It's just like, it's all based on bullshit.
Yeah.
It's all based on ego, Ryan.
Like it always was.
It's ego, it's entitlement,
it's the loudest guy in the bloody room.
Like, let's be honest about that.
Like, even back in our day,
who was the guy that sold the most seeds?
The guy that screamed the most in the soapbox.
Yeah.
You're Charles and you go down the road,
you know what I mean?
That's what it was like.
The people that really that do the quiet work,
you know, and just kind of put their head down.
You don't ever hear about those guys.
You've got to be a self promoter
because no one else is going to do it for you, unfortunately.
And that's why when we were, you know,
both Ryan and I, when we were working those boards
back in the day, we give away hundreds of free seeds
because that was your best way to get advertising
was have a grower grow your seeds and go,
man, this shit's the bomb, right?
Like, but you can't do any of that
in this legal market right now.
You know, it's all so, so much oversight
and so much bullshit laws are surrounded.
It's going to be tough, but I got to tell you,
I'm waiting for someone to come out
and beat the cookies brand
because I'm already tired of seeing that shit.
I mean, that whole branding and marketing to me is childish
and beneath most cannabis customers.
Yeah.
They just hired a breeder who has never made seeds.
And like, I know the guy personally,
he's never made seeds.
He's a marketing guy, but he's now their new breeder.
They're new.
Pretty on brand for cookies.
That's really sad, but until things change
and you get taken out of some of the governmental hands
up here, it's going to be the same old, same old.
I just hope that, you know, Ryan and breeders
like himself can find alternate ways to get their wares
into the market that are still desperately needed.
It's so desperately needed new flavors.
Yeah.
COVID also took a lot of us out.
I don't know why.
I don't know the correlation.
I don't even know if it's causation versus quarterly.
I don't know.
But when COVID hit, a lot of us kind of started slowing down
quite a bit as far as being able to sell seeds,
how much seed was moving, how many people were buying seeds.
So that's been an interesting thing to recover from too.
It was the unknown, man.
Yeah.
You guys are experiencing what the rest
of the world has gone through.
I mean, you know, Amsterdam was the only place
in the world and then when BC became online,
it was kind of the leading hotspot for genetics.
And then now, I mean, that was when, you know,
I mean, talk about like 1995 to call it 2010.
Yeah.
But since 2010, I mean, you guys have,
we have a whole bunch of seed banks popping up
in the States now, right?
Yeah.
A lot, so many.
Americans are ordering from American banks.
Why would you risk the border when you can order
from within the borders, right?
And I-
It put the script, right?
It put the script.
And now all you see, I mean, up here,
and I bitch about it all the time because I can,
but all I see are Yankee, SoCal Yankee seeds up here.
That's all like gelatos, the cakes, the cookies.
Like I'm so, I can't take another cake.
I can't take another cake.
No, no.
Mendo breath, garlic breath.
Like, I mean, it's, and you know,
there's 10 new licenses given out every Friday.
Like there's only so much, you know, cannabis,
we have so many cannabis buyers here in Canada.
There's only so much weed that they're going to buy.
And it's the same 20 things,
because everyone's running to that side of the boat
and, you know, and they'll run to the other side
of the boat when the next new thing comes out,
but it's all coming out of Cali right now.
I don't know of any Canadian breeders
that are doing any significant work
at any level right now, to be frank.
It's really, it's sad.
But frankly, there's more American breeders up here
doing work that are getting, like, you know,
like there's a few big American banks
that are working with cultivators up here
just because that's who the cultivators knew.
They thought that, you know, the Canadian,
or the American guys were the hype,
so they went down and made deals with them.
And now you got like American breeders here
and Canadian breeders can't even get fucking work.
Yeah.
It would be nice.
It would be nice to be able to mobilize the old guard,
guys that have been around for a long time,
to kind of bond together and figure this puzzle out,
you know, because it only benefits the consumer.
If people are getting real work.
It's like Kip said, I mean,
there's so many fucking big egos involved.
Like to try to get everybody under the same tent
and paddling in the same direction.
Good fucking luck.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
It always makes me laugh when I hear about
these potential processor co-ops and things like that.
I'm like, man, you can't get two growers in a room
to look at a black wall and decide what color it is.
Good luck trying to think about packaging,
processing, distro, marketing, like good luck.
Yeah, and seed makers all consider themselves
at some point, some type of artist.
You know what I mean?
As opposed to just a bunk farmer that knows one prop.
So yeah, it's hard to get the egos rounded up.
We just gotta find that one sugar daddy
that likes to smoke enough weeds,
got more money than brains,
and then let us all have Adam.
I know, right?
Let me show you the way Seth Rogan.
Yeah, right.
That's true.
It's so true.
Somebody needs to.
Yeah, that's right.
Listen, we're still young at this.
We're still new at this, guys.
So that means truly, let's be honest.
The legality of all of this is what are we,
five, six years deep on a rec market way.
My daughter is 11 now.
She ever decides she wants to get into this industry
in 10 years, she's gonna look at us
a bunch of fucking dinosaurs
compared to what's gonna go on in 10 years from now.
Oh, for sure.
We can bitch and moan all we want,
but I'll tell you, it's better than me checking
my next Nokia brick phone off the bridge every four days
because I'm scared some assholes reading my texts.
That's a good point.
That's a good point, dude.
I'll call it a win, man.
Yeah, so.
But yeah, it's been nice chatting about all this.
Oh my God, it's been amazing.
Both of you guys, it's been an absolute pleasure
to talk to both of you guys.
I'd love to have you both back on together or individually
so we can cover some more ground.
This has been an honor, absolute honor.
Pleasure meeting both of you guys.
It's really nice to meet, you know,
I call them family members
because we all come from the same tribe
and I mean that honestly.
Yeah, for sure.
I don't get a chance to anymore.
My business these days, Ryan can attest to it,
I'm staring at COAs and Excel sheets these days.
My watering one days are behind me unfortunately right now.
So to talk with folks with passion and insight
is a nice break, guys.
Thank you very much for this opportunity.
Yeah, hit me up anytime, dude, anytime.
All right, I'll talk to you guys later
and thank you so much.
All right, all the best.
Cheers.
Cheers.
Cheers.
Cheers.
Cheers.
Cheers.
Cheers.
Cheers.
Cheers.
Cheers.
Cheers.
Cheers.
Cheers.
Cheers.
Cheers.
Cheers.
