Ready, go!
🎵
Welcome to Breeder's Syndicate.
🎵
What's up Fudge?
Aw man, working, working.
I took two weeks off so you just have to come home and do all the stuff you didn't do for the last two years and two weeks.
Yeah, that sucks dude.
Yeah, no rest for the wicked man.
How's it going with you?
I'm doing okay. Hey dude, what do you got growing in there?
Ummm, I've got some...
That whole back row, that's all GMO.
Nice.
It's kind of stretched on me.
It always does, doesn't it?
Yeah, that's about seven feet.
This is from Big Red Rose.
It is Melonade to Dosey Dose.
I think he calls it Pistachio.
This is some Cush Cake.
This is Ice Cream Cake to Mint Julep.
Mint Julep is Lambo Mike's Mint Chocolate Chip Cookie to DNA Kosher.
There's one...
Pretty nice head on.
They're just about 25 days.
I'm in five gallon bags.
Nice.
Here's another one, nice and open.
That's got a nice open structure.
Yeah, I love it.
It's across the table on all of them.
There's another one there.
Another one there.
That's the last pair of Julep.
Mint Julep to Ice Cream Cake.
I've been rocking those out in small pots for six months, I think or so.
Just trying to find the ones.
Nothing's ever easy.
If you say you're going to do it, it never works out that way.
You just kind of wallow through it.
I compare trying to work a line as being the kid that has to practice the trumpet.
While the other kids are out going ape shit out.
Playing in the summer and you're kind of stuck moving in one direction.
It's tedious, but it's rewarding at a point.
Yeah, it's something.
It used to be the standard, but not so much anymore.
The way the market moves and the attention spans and whatnot.
It moves through it so fast.
I have a buddy doing rec.
He said he's flipping strains out every two to three runs.
They're just two to three and done.
It's that fast.
It's really tough to do what we do in this industry.
If you want to play with that hype stuff or stick to your guns.
Wait until you're not in that hot zone.
Wait until what you're doing comes back in.
It used to be, at least for me, five, six, seven years.
Before something would come back around that I made that wasn't popular.
Everybody would want it and it would be old seeds.
Or I would be hard at giving them all out for free.
At that point, because they didn't sell.
Exactly.
That's the tough one.
Nowadays, I think a lot of breeders just throw those filler plants in.
They're not going to be the main bangers out of what they're dropping.
They're going to be plants that just kind of make money.
I think a lot of plants are thrown in in guys' menus as options rather than choices.
I can get $4,000 off that plant.
They're pushing big plants and just pulling the shit out of them.
Moving on to the next one.
It's been something I've been covering lately a lot.
Just trying to explain to people the difference between how we used to do it.
Now, where the market is pushing everyone to go.
Testing was a given.
If someone didn't test, we always give them shit.
You ain't even testing that shit.
Now, they got the fucking advantage, bro.
There was always one guy that would come in and say,
I assume this is untested.
Then all the hype boys would be like, shut up.
Alien Genetics 2012.
We all saw that go down.
That became our new norm.
Yeah, it did. It fucking sucks.
It really sucks.
If you're hitting it hard, running as fast as you can,
with a brand new line you're making across,
and testing it, you're at least 18 months in.
If you're doing it right.
And actually seeing if anything's good, running it all the way out.
Yeah.
That is not a time span that works for the current market.
It's just not.
You see a lot of people claiming they work just to F6,
or back cross 5 or something.
You go back on their feed,
and the arithmetic just doesn't lie.
It's like, dude, you obviously just pulled the two best looking plants you had,
and set them aside and bred those together.
There was no full look at it.
You're gambling.
Absolutely gambling.
I think what guys, I won't name any names,
but there's a lot of guys who have figured out the plan.
If they sell seeds, the majority of the market
is not going to grow out those seeds for at least a year,
year and a half maybe, sometimes longer.
A lot of the negative feedback, they've got two years in,
to fucking just put a bunch of bullshit out and run.
That's the time span for it.
Yeah, there's a lot of guys that have came and gone in the last two years.
Probably popped up as someone else.
You don't have many fly-by-night people there is in this industry, period.
Sucks, man. It was a lot different back in the day.
There wasn't access to all these cuts and whatnot.
You knew when you got something, it was real,
because people just weren't like that.
Hearing you talk about provenance for the last couple of years
has been really cool, because a lot of people don't understand that.
I see descriptions of cuts on people's clone banks and whatnot,
and they're like, well, it's strawberry, this or that.
When it goes down to the description, they're like,
well, it's great in extracts.
It's like, whoa, come on now.
If it's strawberry, it should be dripping off your skin when you leave the room.
The cover-ups, I think there's a lot of that with the banana, too.
Which is just a pet peeve of mine.
There's a few big clone guys out there,
and that's their explanation on why their banana is a banana.
It's because you need to go make oil out of it.
That's not right.
It made it halfway through flour over here.
Oh, you just cut out. There you are.
Yeah, nothing. Just no banana.
What the fuck?
Banana is banana. That stuff should be popping the second you have trichromes.
If you know it, you know what you're looking for,
you know what the smell is, you know what your stems are going to smell like.
I will say this, everybody can rank on stem rubbers all they fucking want,
but I will masturbate a fucking stem.
It's not so much as looking for a particular smell.
It's looking for a familiar smell.
Everybody knows what a chem smells like.
If you can't, you can rub that damn stem, dude.
It will at least tell you if you're in the neighborhood.
If you know what you're talking about.
If you've rubbed that girl down before many times,
it's no different than grandma's cookies.
You should just know that essence it's putting off, period.
No different than grandma's vagina. I agree.
You should know what that smells like.
There it is.
Let's talk about your starts, dude.
What were some of the first lines that got you into wanting to make seeds in the first place?
First, you know, the first seeds I ever made were from a old University of Washington hash plant
that came to me through some people from Normal.
That and the coffee bubba in the 90s.
We wore those fuckers like a damn placard on our chest.
That was our family crest.
If you were in our neighborhood, you knew it by the city.
People call it by the city, and they're like,
Oh, yeah, you know, you must know so and so.
You would kind of get to know people, but you would never really know what you had or what not,
because people just weren't open.
I did rautalize some hash plant seeds in the 90s.
I just wanted to continue on.
I read up on the process, and I went, wow, okay.
I guess I'm going to flower these things 17 weeks and just hope for the best.
I ended up with a lot of really nice seeds out of it.
Everybody was kind of affiliated with some small-time airports and what not, their mechanics.
They were flying around and what not.
They had all lost their cuts.
I kind of just redistributed an S-1 amongst the buddies.
Everybody thought it was so cool.
I thought, wow, man, I'd really like to do this more.
Years went by.
I grew always.
I never got to really level up.
I'm a working dude.
Kids, the truck breaks, whatever.
Somebody did something.
I never really got ahead.
I ended up, after medical caught on here, getting hooked up with my buddy from construction
who opened up a grow shop.
I got hooked up with old exotic Mike.
We were guys that just kind of shopped at the same place and what not.
He was a damn good fucking grower.
What he was working with was a lot of TGA gear and what not.
I found a guy on Craigslist who had cuts of the whole Nirvana catalog.
He had a lot of this old, the iced stuff.
A lot of Paradise Seeds.
At that time, I was more about the Thunderfuck and the stuff that was coming from Europe.
We were still in the 2000s.
Though we saw some great California weed show up in the fall.
Unless you had the balls to run the I-5 corridor, there just wasn't a lot of it.
Later on, towards seven and eight, hell, people were just flying up and down that thing.
You guys actually just flooded our freaking market out at a point.
During those years, 2006, 2007, Amsterdam, if people don't know, those seed companies were still dominating.
The American seed companies were still small.
There were very few big ones.
I think at that time, me and Subcool were the only ones on the Attitude, which had just taken the market over.
The Attitude had just started taking the market over.
That's why guys in the US were getting our seeds from Amsterdam.
That's just what you did.
That was what was in demand.
It was a long time.
It could be four or five months before you got your seeds back then.
People don't realize that.
There was no tracking.
You just went to wherever you were having those things sent and just looked every day or called.
Is it there?
Is the birthday card there?
Is it there yet?
It's not like today where you can just press a button and if your bank's on point, 72 hours later, you have seeds in the dirt.
Yeah.
I started working with Mike.
At the time, the Ogres, Banana Kush, Great Bape, and Grandaddy were just absolutely murderizing us.
We were still all growing the Dutch stuff.
It's like, wow, how can we get a hold of this California action?
Once we were building a room over here, my buddy financed it.
Mike helped pay for it.
We got growing over here.
We were putting the walls up.
It was like, what can we do?
At the time, Mike had made seeds, but he wasn't actively pushing them or anything.
He was really modest about it.
I know, right?
It's a long time ago.
It's like, how can we beat these damn California genetics?
How do you compete?
The first answer was Subcool Seeds.
He was in every dispensary on every corner here in Washington.
Every magazine you could pick up was Subcool at the time.
Oh, yeah.
He had just absolutely saturated the market with those $50, $40 packs.
They were everywhere.
Mike had a few flame crosses and whatnot.
We started pushing them on this thing called the Northwest Green Thumb,
which was our medical forums.
It actually became pretty big.
There was a lot of Michigan guys on there and a lot of guys that poke in there
just for fun and whatnot because there was so much shit talking.
It was just ridiculous.
The guy who made the Green Thumbs, Uncle, actually was the founder of Silk Road.
I think they scared a lot of people off once they started trying to push Bitcoin
for hundreds of dollars back then.
This was still 2011 or so.
We pushed the Flav stuff and got our feet wet with that.
Of course, the infamous Starfighter pack was bought off Alien
because Mike had paid Logic for those Alien auctions right after the Starfighter.
I remember.
That auction was pretty well known because it went for so fucking much money.
Oh, yes.
Do you remember how much it was?
There was one pack that apparently went for $4,500 and didn't get paid for
and then Mike had bought that pack for $2,100 and the seeds never showed up.
Go figure.
Logic said, can you just get ahold of Alien?
Alien sent him 30 seeds, actually.
I believe it was the 29 and the 30 that actually made the F2s.
Who knows what would have happened if Logic would have sent seeds?
That's where those strong Alien Kush dom plants came from.
By God, if you go look into Ops' pictures of Alien Kush and then start looking at Mike's Starfighter,
it was like, wow, okay.
You can see where we're going with this.
I did get a chance over time to smoke Ops' Cherry Alien Dog and some other personal Ops' cuts.
It's like, wow, Starfighter is a direct kiddo of these plants.
Anytime I see Starfighter stuff or anything descended from it,
you can always tell that it has the Alien technology, fucking resin rails, the type of resin.
It breathes very true for all that stuff.
Exactly.
His mail, I got to say kudos, man.
He picked a solid mail, and that thing was just like a freaking car wash, man.
You could put an average plant in there, and it would just shine it.
It had great traits as far as that went.
The only downfall, I think what moved him away was, one, he didn't want to be a one-trick pony.
Number two is, if you look at the numbers, it has high THCA,
but the rest of the categories are zeros.
There's not much else other than that THCA in there.
It hit its ceiling, and I think that's what led to its demise.
People were expanding on that stuff.
That new bar of 26% THC in 12 or 13, and went from 17 up into the 20s.
It was like, wow, shit got to be in here.
It screwed us out of a lot of great traits and compounds.
Oh, yeah, dude. It's still going.
Which leads me back to where I started, which was with the Ultimate Chem 08.
I was lucky enough to have some friends back in the early 90s.
I'm not going to say 91. I'm not trying to tell a story or whatnot.
You hear some of these big ones out there, and it's just like, okay, yeah.
You're sitting next to Skunk EA, and you fucking dropped your hot dog on his leg.
Okay, you know.
We basically had some friends from Seattle that traveled around,
and they would follow the dead and have this contest every year.
They would pick up weed, and when the dead took a break, they'd come home,
and we'd get the sweet blueberry.
Some of the skunk and the KGB, the killer green bud that we thought was lost in the mid to late 80s,
some of that stuff would come back around.
It was like, wow, I got to smoke some.
Actually, okay, man, all bullshit aside here.
I was on a forum called Kinetics.
It was cool. I remember it was still popping.
Bodhi was over on Kinetics and Relentless.
I was over there. Mike was over. A ton of fucking people were over there.
Oh my god.
Surfer had some Starfighter F1 beans.
This was after Alien and Surfer had their fallout,
when Surfer was trying to pimp Alien's cut out, I guess, that he was using.
Surfer was selling packs of Starfighter F1s.
I'm the new guy over at Kinetics, Mike and I.
Our reps aren't built. Okay, whatever.
I hit him up. I'm like, hey, bro, I'd love to get some of those Starfighter F1s.
He said, I gave him my list because it was all about the list over there.
Of course, yeah.
Everybody flexed their list. Of course, Jaws won every time.
That guy is such a fucking dork.
Oh my god, the biggest poser to ever hit our scene.
Oh, shit.
Next to Oso Green.
He did well trading his own beans for other people's beans.
His collection is fucking huge.
Any letter you say, there's just 40 or 50 strains there.
We all know those peach colored walls with the blankets over the windows.
I was never on Kinetics because I had been on the pre-tribster called Pot Pimp.
The owner was a dude named Rips.
He literally ripped everyone off.
His moderators, my homies, were like, oh my god, everybody got ripped off.
We got ripped off too. Let's start a new site.
They just started ripping people off.
I refused to be a part of it.
Wow.
That kind of goes into some stuff that I've always wondered about.
Let me ask you this, man. Is Rips dead?
Do you think Rips is still walking this fucking earth and stalking people on Instagram?
Yeah, I'm sure on a different name.
Him and Mr. DJ K.
There was a few other dudes on there. I can't remember off the top of my head.
They were all part of that same crew.
I'm friends with Mr. DJ K now.
I always have been.
That was his homie. He went and started a new site.
It was suspicious.
I'm not going to lie.
Exactly.
We were at Kinetics.
I basically got punked by Surfer telling me I only trade for Top Dog or Elite Genetics gear.
This is still 2012.
I hadn't been around on the internet much.
I'm an old school dude.
At that point, I was like, fuck.
I know who Top Dog is.
I need to find out who this fucking Elite Genetics guy is.
I Googled him.
I started seeing this double dip banana and these names.
He had great names, dude.
I was like, holy shit. It's like a big soda fountain.
I was like, wow, this guy. The Twisted Purple. The Lemon Larry.
I was like, wow, this sounds like the dude I need to get down with.
I didn't read far enough.
I just made it my point to get as much Elite Genetics gear as I could in a short period of time.
Someday, I can throw that shit back in that dude's face.
I started there.
We've talked about before. You're bidding on the same pack of 08s.
That's where my journey began.
I popped those seeds.
Not knowing what it was.
Back in the day, man, 90s, 80s.
Nothing had names.
It was the Kills.
It was whatever. The Chronic.
Where's the fucking weed? Whatever.
Whatever you called it.
It was like, holy shit.
I smoked this Ultimate Cannon.
It's like, wow, Grandma's Cookies.
I've been here before.
I started expanding because of the forums and whatnot.
I got to smoke some D and some 4.
Some Stuffed Lemon Hoko was growing.
He's like the old master splitter for all the breeders here.
I don't care what they say.
He was the guy doing it long before any of us.
Using Predator Mites and doing things that are everyday practices now.
Ten years ago, we were like, this guy's a fucking freak, dude.
You think about all the people that came out of that little Northwest green thumb.
It's Xotic, me, Pacific Northwest Roots, Kaya,
DVG, Eric, Duns & Ball.
He was pushing the Granddaddy Perps label at the time.
Doing his own thing now and shit.
I can totally vouch that he was doing Ken's breeding.
There is no bullshit to that.
One second. Everybody in the room is confused.
Lemon Larry is different than Larry OG.
In Atlanta, Larry OG was going big time.
Lemon Larry was less so at the time.
Lemon Larry became popular on forums for a while.
It was a Lemon Thai Larry OG, not just Larry OG that happened to be Lemon.
For the people in the audience reading on and talking.
Go ahead.
No sweat.
Yeah, DVG was cool, man.
He was doing all Ken's stuff.
I remember back then, I was always fucking trolling Ken because he was such a lamer.
DVG would always be super cool to me, even though he was on the Dupa Ken account.
He's got a quick fuse, man.
If you sat down in that guy's living room, you'd get nothing but fucking love.
Yeah, he's cool.
He's got a quick fucking fuse, man.
I've seen it.
I started with the Ultimate Ken and the 08.
I ended up getting the Sour Larry cut from Dr. Frost that was from Zoolander.
Dr. Frost?
You mean Mr. and Mrs. Dr. Frost?
You mean Lacey Frost.
Yes.
Exactly.
Lacey Frost did a lot of animal cookie stuff and Fire OG.
He took a bunch of people's money and went and bought some boobs and then just kind of disappeared.
Dude, that's probably the smartest idea.
I wish I would have done the same because that's a killer idea.
I ended up...
He kept on pushing on it.
You need to do this.
You need to do a back cross and blah, blah, blah.
I was just like, man, I'm still old school.
I don't want to send you...
I was going to send him some pollen and cut some of my Ultimate Ken 08 females.
I just found these and where I'm from, we don't share, dude.
I had a tough time with it.
Mike was finally like, man, this guy says he has alien kush, yada, yada, yada, yada.
He's like, just be nice to him.
I want to get some of the seeds.
I ended up sending him the Ultimate Kems.
Four or five days later, I get this box.
It was delivered to Mike's shop.
No, it was delivered to my house.
I bring it over to Mike's shop and we open this thing up.
There's water coming out the bottom.
We crack this thing open.
Immediately, a flyer comes out of it.
We're like, oh shit.
This sucker is hot.
We pull this thing, just directly put into a box.
It was planted in the ground and yanked out of the ground.
It was in a six-inch rock that was just fucking...
It just reeked like Avid and Forbid and all the bad ones.
It was like, oh no.
I got that.
I put it back in the box and we left it outside for two days in February.
I was like, fuck that.
Fuck that guy.
I hit him up.
I said, dude, you're a dick, blah, blah, blah.
I got thinking about it.
I was like, wow, okay.
You need to hit a civilian up that doesn't grow,
that can't get any collateral damage,
and pay them to nurse that thing back to health.
I went and bought a light, bought some Asmax,
and bought some One Step.
Oh God, I can't remember that.
One Step food, just basic glue.
I gave a dude two ounces to give it to me clean.
It was like three months later, I got this plant back
that was just thoroughly shellacked and barely alive.
It was so locked out.
The process begun.
I chose my old 08 male.
I compare all breeding.
It's just like building a house, or a car, or anything.
You start with the best foundation you can.
You just build up from there.
You just take your time and do it right.
You could see there for about four years,
a lot of people were just having it.
Breeders were having terrible luck with intersexing and whatnot.
It's become a lot more accepted and whatnot on a smaller level.
People weren't looking at their males,
and they were just throwing anything in.
It really showed.
It really fucked up a lot of good gene pools.
I just try to start with the best plants, as many as I can.
Like we both know, if you say you're going to do something,
and you put 20 down to get a mission done and get some seeds made,
fuck, it's going to take 40.
When you don't expect it, you get exactly what you want.
Exactly.
I'm at the point where I just pop seeds I want to pop,
and I hope for the best.
I realize that you can't make it happen until it's there.
Just don't force it.
This industry doesn't need any more forced seeds.
I tell a lot of people, dude, keep your fucking day job.
Because there's always that dude that hits you up,
and then they're like, man, I'm going to be the next seed junkie.
You're like, right on, bro.
Good luck to you.
Test your shit.
Just don't quit your day job.
I think if a lot of people did this just for fun or whatever,
the end game would be a lot cooler.
The people that don't smoke pot and breathe,
and can't even give descriptions of what the hell they're working with,
or what they have, or what to expect.
At least you can apply somebody with a prediction.
A lot of people say that.
A good breeder can predict the outcome to an extent
of what you're going to find in his patch.
We all should be able to do that.
That's just taking responsibility for what you're making.
That's just knowing what you're working with in the first place.
You don't just pop and make.
You have to know what you're working with to see if it's worth breeding with in the first place.
Right.
There it is.
The other one is guys that are picking up other guys' F3s and making F4s.
First of all, we know these aren't actual F-gens.
We'll call them industry F-gens.
I do have a set for my pack, but I'll just let you guys know.
I don't know what an actual filial gen is.
We'll stop there.
Guys that are taking these packs, they've never ran any of these Northern Whites.
They've never ran Great Babe or these Granddaddy Ferts.
They're making the next generation of seeds with them.
It's like, dude, you've never smoked real GDP in your whole life.
You're making Granddaddy Fert seeds right now.
Off of one pack, off 10 seeds.
Sometimes even less.
Some of that needs to go away.
Back to the 08.
I tested everything.
I beat the shit out of everything.
Out-crossed it to a few more things and then eventually made the F2s.
It was actually almost seven years for me to make the F3s.
I grew a lot of them.
I thought it was one of the coolest crosses I had ever grown.
I couldn't figure out where to take it.
I realized there's no need to really take anything anywhere.
I'm kind of an anti-bottleneck guy now.
I'm more into four males and two females all on the same gene frequency.
I grow a population of similar plants.
I can call some stuff I don't want out.
More subsistence features or whatnot.
If I'm aiming for an indica, I shouldn't be necessarily looking at some plants
in my pool of plants I have to use.
I call the whole time and try to get myself down to a gene frequency.
A decent sized micro pool.
I have a larger population.
I throw those, flower them, do what I need to do and take those clones.
Then I can make a generation a season and feel confident about what I'm putting on the table.
What everything has to offer.
What I've seen. What to expect.
I don't have a big test or crew.
For me, it's sometimes easier to do it myself.
That's what's slowed me down this year.
I haven't done anything for drops.
I've been finding the plants I want to work with.
Stuff that inspires me versus currency.
I do okay enough that I don't need to make seeds for a living.
There's nothing wrong with that.
Everybody's good enough to do it.
There's a ton of guys doing it.
Props to everybody.
This is a part time thing for me.
I realized it became about the money for a split second.
I realized it was great.
Every breeder, you get your first drop in.
I don't even know how to describe it.
It's like a three bullseyes or a fucking 10.
It's like running a table a nine ball.
You get adrenaline pumped.
It's like, wow, people paid for my shit.
I'm somebody.
That's for real.
That can turn you, man.
That can turn you quick.
I just kind of slowed down.
I'm trying to find the one.
I would love to hit a male to 20 plants.
If I don't have that male and I don't have that 20 plants, I'm in idle.
I guess you could say I got writer's block at the moment.
I'm just going through everything.
Trying to find the right plants to do what I need to do.
I can sympathize with the writer's block thing.
That shit's for real.
Fucking run came around.
Runs is worthless to me.
I smoke runs.
It's just like, dude, man, this is not even practice weed.
I wouldn't even smoke this just to practice smoking weed.
It's just—
Take it from me.
Yeah, man.
That was kind of an uninspiring year as far as that went.
I didn't.
I thought I did a sliced cream cake, which was sour layered ice cream cake.
That was as far into gelato as I wanted it to be.
Ice cream cake, the cut that I had was great.
It put up huge numbers, man.
It was like 38% with everything in the Washington State standards.
It still goes back to that Starfighter thing where it's hollow.
I like the chems.
I like the diesels.
I like the OGs and the crosses of all three because they get you in the gut.
It's like getting a ride in a fast car, the torque, that feeling of helplessness.
I can smoke some good chem and just get up and move around.
I don't even have to think.
I don't have to fucking move my legs.
They just walk themselves.
That's what I like.
I don't want to have to, like I said, go through.
Especially with me having hypermesis, I can't smoke a large quantity of fucking pot.
From one episode when I start throwing up and it stops, I usually wait 10 days before I start smoking again.
It should probably be two months.
I'm right on the clock again for it happening again.
That sucks.
My tolerance is low.
I can get through the day with a fucking gram, dude.
I'm a flower and I'm like fucking set.
Ready for bed, fucking bloodshot eyes.
That day, I was fucking high all day.
I didn't have to fucking move my legs to take a step.
I was fucking moving.
I really got into the Sour Larry stuff because it had a high level of energy.
It had a high level of mercy and humulene in it.
It did great as far as medically.
It was a win-win.
That was my last big male.
The big one I worked and probably crossed to 15 females.
Probably close to.
At a point when Elite was out that last time and bugging me, I felt like I want to completely remove myself from anything to do with you.
Every time he got out, he'd say, can I get some tea? Can I get a package?
Then it was one, it was two.
He never quit.
That guy sucks.
The thing with this shit too, if we're being real, all of his early shit, none of it was consistent.
You could buy two packs with one name on it and be completely different.
Because he was using Bubba and OG early on, most of it was pretty decent compared to what other people were putting out.
Trying to figure out what shit really was in your packs was fucking impossible.
Exactly, dude. I told him that at a point.
He'd hit me up and say stuff like, dude, you must be rich from using my stuff in your gear.
Oh my God.
It's like, dude, for real, dude?
He got weird and there's all these late night messages.
It's just like, man, this dude's fucking out, but he's fucking going to be back in soon.
I just finally told him. It's just like, fuck, dude, weird.
This isn't cool, man. I just needed to remove myself from his gear, basically.
I ended up making the Chemmy fucking Sours and that was pretty much my equivalent to the 08s.
I'm done with those. It's out of my hair. I won't be making more.
I can at least have a few more of those.
I'm done with those. It's out of my hair. I won't be making more.
I can at least have a platform of the same genetics, but actual Chem cuts with what?
Provenance.
I used Skunk VA Dog Patch. He said it was okay.
There it is, man. I've got my equivalent to the 08.
I'm not a 08. Probably a little more Indica.
There was a lot of 10 and 11 week stuff in Elite's 08.
I'm noticing in these Chemmy fucking Sours, it's 8 1⁄2, 9 1⁄2 and you're out. You're done.
It's a better place for me.
I'm just trying to go through right now and make another batch of as many crosses as I can.
I had a batch of my dog meat, a large bag of pretty much everything I had for myself and my sons to carry on.
All vacuum sealed up. I couldn't put a price on that bag.
I had a bag that if I ever needed to leave town in five minutes, that was the bag I was grabbing.
I had some of the old Lemon Bubba crosses that I would Elite's Lemon Bubba or Moda's Lemon Bubba, whoever made it.
They would argue about it, but it is what it is. Who are you going to believe, Ron or Jeffy?
God only knows.
People are asking about your Mr. Whitey. Does that sound familiar?
Yeah, man. Back in the day, who did I originally get them from?
I got some Bubba Ogres, some Bubba O seeds in a tray.
Okay, I remember when that was made.
The Bubba O.
I want to say I got them from Seeds of Compassion.
Maybe, yeah. Could have been.
Wasn't he a UK guy and didn't work with Firestacks for a sec?
I can't remember on that.
He was an older guy that had been around. He traded Mike a bunch of exotic gear.
I went through the list and picked some stuff out. I got a bunch of these Bubba Ogres.
I ended up getting a male in there.
The first thing was I hit CSI up.
At the time, he was the new femme guy on the block.
It was like, okay, if there's anybody to talk to here, it's you.
He says, nope, no possible way. Not going to happen. It's contamination.
Those aren't white Bubba Ogres and blah, blah, blah.
I ended up running into him in a cup.
Actually, blazing past Archive.
Like, hey, nice to meet you, Bubba. Yeah, yeah, yeah, whatever.
Running over to the inspector. It's kind of a good dude off, but whatever.
I've been reading up. There is a one in a million. It does happen.
It's possible.
He couldn't argue it at a point.
I was really, really wondering about it.
In fact, you just don't have all the goods there to make a male.
We grew a population of 100 of them out over here at this house.
That was actually where a male came from that Mike used in some of his crosses.
I think he released like eight strains with that male.
It was an absolute white Dom Bubba Ogres.
I crossed the Bubba Ogre male to the white Forum Cut cookies.
It was right around 2013.
I was rocking the Forum Cut, Predator Pink, Blackberry Kush.
We have a guy out here, 210 Beans. He helped me a little bit a while back.
He had gotten this cut of Blackberry Kush down in Pendleton, Oregon.
Pendleton, Oregon has no relation to Oregon Kid at all.
I don't know what I know about Ken and where he grew up and whatnot.
It was Oregon Kid's Blackberry Kush.
There's no disputing it.
It was the small fucker that liked to grow out sideways and throw those three-bladed leaves down low.
It would put on some nice purple color and it had great frost.
It was the same Starfighter Complex.
It wasn't any kind of full spectrum high or anything.
You wanted to smoke more in 20 minutes.
It's that type of weed.
I messed around with those for a long time.
I grew out multiples.
I think I ended up sending Inspector back a bunch of pictures.
I'm not sure.
I talked about it with a bunch of other breeders and sent them pictures of all my findings.
They're like, fine.
You have white dome plants in there.
You have bubba dome plants in there.
Then you have that classic Ogre Sativa plant.
Big bush with 9 and 11 bladed leaves on it.
Everything slumped over.
If you go back to IC Mag, somebody had a couple of pictures of the S1s and the actual Ogres cut over there.
You would see that as well.
More so than anything, actually.
There were more classic Ogres in there than anything.
I brought those out for a while.
I made a few crosses.
I know one cut was in Colorado and did 35% THC back about six years ago.
That's just one that got eaten by the dogs.
That was one that I probably had 30 of those left.
If I'm fond of something, I want to give it the time it deserves.
I hoard a lot of seeds that I make because it's just not the time.
It's not the time.
I really want to work these, but I've got other shit on the plate.
If I can't give it 150%, I can't fuck with this.
I had a lot of stuff.
That whole bag was stuff like that.
I had a lot of stuff.
That whole bag was stuff like that.
They ate the whole bag.
A pack of Starfighter F2s, which I had a $1,000 offer for.
There was old Rastel gear in there.
It was a big bag of seeds.
Was this recently?
This was last Halloween.
I kind of remember when all this happened.
I was making old Rastel gear.
I was like, oh shit.
Just all of it.
Just wasted.
That gave me a big pile of floor hash seeds.
I did end up sending all those to Speakeasy.
We've identified a few definite plants out of there.
I had a Sour Larry to Zeus Cut to some of the Ultimate SFB camp.
Kermit had given me a bunch of packs back in the day to run through.
He gave me the Ultimate SFB camp, which is a completely different plant.
I'd say the Chem08 was a nice Sour camp.
The SFB camp has a lot of...
He said he put Swerve's SFB BX in there.
That was crossed to, supposedly, an AFI BX.
I do get a lot of really short, stubby leaf Afghani trees.
Those would be the sweet plants that are in the bunch.
They're actually really cool because you get some of the SFB too.
It equates to almost like a Piney chem.
I get Piney chems out of there too.
It was really cool.
I really wish I would have made more seeds of it.
I had two females out of the packs.
They both mannered late.
The late flowering manners are so unappealing to me.
They can ruin whole crops with a bunch of preemie seed.
Yeah, just looking at it.
I love some KMD, but don't get me wrong.
I've seen that, manner late or whatever.
Compared to back in the day, we had some...
I remember Mike had this Apollo 13 from Subcool.
This thing would throw down a pound of plant easily by itself in a 5-gallon pot.
Just pro-mix in it.
It would be covered top to bottom in little, sterile manners.
I couldn't look at it. I hated the smoke.
It was terrible.
I hate to say it, but a lot of that Space Queen Dom Subcool gear was not in my wheelhouse.
That was the biggest complaint from everyone.
All the Space Queen stuff fucking room-rooms.
There it is.
I've always been a Kamoji guy.
That's what I like.
That's where my palate is.
That's where the effect that I desire in crosses is.
Everything works out the best.
I have a few lines that I work on.
The Mint Tulips or whatnot at least has the kosher in it.
It packs a punch and has good frost.
I hate to say it, but the Starfighter in there deep down.
The kosher still gives it legs.
I enjoy smoking it. It's good daytime smoke.
For the most part, I'm an Indica guy, 100%.
I want to smoke and feel the effect and relax and calm the fuck down.
That's my thing.
Talking about the reversed males.
Me and Inspecta have gone back and forth on that ever since we've known each other.
We're stupid friends because I've seen what looks like males appear from pure S1 lines where I know they weren't contaminated.
In the end, what we came to the conclusion of, when these things were sex tested, they would test female, but they were expressing all male.
It's a rare occurrence, but it definitely can happen.
I know what you're saying.
I've read about it. I haven't really gotten to see it yet.
I have heard of them expressing or masking or whatnot.
With cannabis plants, it's really easy to see with reversal spray.
You could reverse a Fem line that is all female, reverse it, and make it turn male.
Manipulating any kind of hormones can make something express 100% male, even if there's not male chromosomes, if that makes sense.
Yes.
It's a trick.
How could I get true males from a cross to the white?
If I cross that bubba ogres to the white, and then those offsprings had males in them.
It shouldn't be more than one or two males per 100, but it would just be females expressing male as opposed to just being genetically male.
It would just look like males, but genetically they're female, if that makes sense.
Cannabis is a weird fucking plant.
A lot of times people think about human type genetics on it, where things are definitely male, definitely female, etc.
You can have something with all female chromosomes express male.
It's rare, but it happens.
It can happen for thousands of different reasons.
Long term though, will progeny of that false male contain males?
Yes, usually.
For whatever reason, yes.
Got it. The longer it's worked back.
It will slowly gain more males in its population.
That's the other hard part that we've never figured out scientifically why that happens.
It's been the longest process.
Just from when I first started reversing plants and noticed that males were popping up.
Of course, people are like, no, no, no, no, pollen contamination.
I'm like, but this is like one in a thousand.
How am I getting one in a thousand?
Well, pollen contamination.
I fought it for a long time trying to figure it out, tighten up rooms, figuring it out.
It's way more complicated than just pollen.
But most of the people who sell packs that are like half male, half female from a reverse pack, that's pollen contamination.
I've done it myself on accident thinking that I knew what I was talking about and sold pollen contamination.
But oddly enough, it looked like both the parents, which always f**ked me up.
Yeah, it was crazy, man.
I ran through a ton of those Mr. White's, a few blends of the Blackberry Buff Ogres.
It's hard to get any kind of scientific evaluation or anything using cookies in anything.
Yeah, I bet.
I couldn't give any good info on that.
It was really bizarre seeing males and like I said, chopping it up with Caleb and just walking away stupider than I was before the conversation.
Good thing we have it figured out.
It's like, oh, f**k.
Yeah, man.
That was about 2013.
I would love to go back into those.
I do have some Mr. White's Ultimate Kems.
Oh, sorry. I'm taking a leap.
Some Mr. White's Ultimate Kems.
I think I still have Mr. White's to the White.
That's cool.
Yeah, yeah.
They didn't get every pack.
I'll be damned.
There were certain breeders they just liked the packaging on.
Green Team, they loved his labels, but they didn't eat any of the packs.
I had like 10 tore up Green Team packs and then they didn't get into the seed containers at all.
It's like, oh, nice.
There's a hundred seeds down the drain.
Yeah, it was a rough one.
Where are you at now?
What's your newest muse?
Are you just kind of like you said, stuck on Riders Blog?
Riders Blog.
I'm back into these.
I have a Towering Inferno I made with the NorCal Fire Ochi, the Ultimate SMP Kems.
I have made F2s, released a few packs.
I made F3s, but just a small, just, you know, personal pack type of thing.
I'm going through those and I would like to make the next gen of those.
I'm down to like these, like I said in those Ultimate SMP Kems.
About one, I'd say two in ten, I'm getting these short little Afi plants.
The rest of the population is a really stretchy Chem OG headband plant.
They grow fast, they grow vigorous, they grow straight up.
As long as you clean the bottoms, they just keep pushing.
You'll look next to it and here's this little 150 yard marker that's a foot tall with these few little branches coming off the marrow stem.
That's what it wants to be.
I'm trying to eliminate that.
Like I said, if I can just keep working these micro-populations on these same frequencies,
if I can use six plants that all have that soapy smell at the beginning of flowering,
by the end I'm getting classic tennis ball OG and some volatile Chem turps in there.
That's what I'm expecting.
I'm not there yet.
That's the one.
Also, I used Relentless' 818 SFV cut that he worked back in the day.
I hit that same Ultimate SFV Chem and I'm working the F2s right now.
That Relentless cut was just straight gasoline.
Just classic gasoline.
No ethanol in it.
Just classic gasoline.
It was really short and just a terrible grower.
It put off terrible flowers.
Really small, thumbnail size flowers.
It's like, wow, this thing's either drifting or degenerating or something.
Before she got tossed, I hit her to the 08 and the Ultimate SFV Chem as well.
I hit them to both parents because at the time I was into this,
work these lines parallel, hit the white to both the Ultimate SFV Chem and the 08.
Then you can have two white Chem lines and tweak it either way depending on what you find in these two lines here.
I was trying to shoot out six OGs all in the same path and working into the best Chem OG I could
by manipulating whatever was there.
That's just what I'm doing now is playing with those 818s, both of them, the SFV1 and the 818.
Going through those pretty heavily and just trying to keep further in the lines.
I don't want to go too overboard.
Working that sour Larry from BX1, BX2, BX2, F2, BX2, IX.
This is a lot of fucking time.
I get why guys don't want to keep it moving and keep different flavors coming in and whatnot.
That's a pain in the ass. Not every plant is a fucking rainbow.
A lot of times, especially in the early days, it was like classic fucking gold mining.
You were sifting through rocks to find gold nuggets.
More so than now. I think everybody has stepped their game up.
There's a lot of good strains out there.
Guys are pulling good numbers, 5 out of 10 females or whatever.
People are finding keepers and whatnot. Not long-term keepers, I'm noticing.
I think the definition of keepers has changed so much.
I don't know that they're finding keepers that we would have considered back in the day.
They are Instagram appropriate and more resonant.
Therefore, they're easier to label keepers.
Keepers are chosen on Instagram by pictures, not necessarily by the quality of the smoke.
Exactly. It's terrible, dude.
Give me green weed any day.
Yeah.
That's kind of where I'm at.
I like the animal cookies. I thought for a cookies frost, that was a good one.
I've had a few. For the most part, I still like anything free cookies.
With the exception, I can't doggone it too hard.
We smoked a lot of Northern Lights here. Me and Seattle and whatnot.
That's just one. I wouldn't care if I ever saw it again, dude.
Yeah, people got tired of NL up there.
You either smoke BC weed or you smoke NL there for a while.
You had two choices. In the fall, this was around late 90s.
You're either smoking lights or you're smoking what we call the Canadian bacon.
We could still get the every fall from Cali, we'd get the Christmas Bud up here.
Only in small amounts.
We literally just knew somebody that brought enough to take care of 10 friends.
You put your order in on the 4th of July and had your fingers crossed.
It's changed. It used to be hard to get cuts and seeds.
Fuck, it's a whole new world.
A whole new ballpark for all of us.
I still believe there's plenty of legendary giants in all those old seeds.
I think a lot of people need to step back and work on resurrecting something you know and like.
Call your own and whatnot. Put the pedal to the metal with it.
Cross it to 20 different things. We don't need 10 guys all making the same crosses.
Yeah, that's getting old.
It's terrible. We see it and everybody went orange for a minute.
Everybody was trying to go cookies and then all of a sudden everybody was going sour.
I understand it. The wheel is never going to stop turning.
We can at least try to reinvent some things.
What do you have on your plate? What are you working with?
We're doing the NL projects right now with CSI.
We have some other stuff that we're going to start a company with Mutant stuff.
I have some blue Skittles.
I did pop some of the blue Macs just to take the light a little bit forward.
And then the Punchy Bluester which is all blue bonnet stuff mostly.
Just because I loved it so much.
Is there anything else you want to talk about before we wrap it up?
No, man. It's been a privilege. Like I said, back in the day, I looked up to you and a lot of other dudes.
I appreciate you having me on and I appreciate your time.
It's great meeting you down at PDX.
And Oso loves little boys.
Yeah, Oso Green loves little boys.
It's my pleasure. You've always been super, super fucking cool.
And I appreciate you, brother. And thank you for coming on.
Likewise. Right on, buddy.
Take care.
Thanks again to Thunderfudge for stopping by. He really is a fucking cool dude.
Really, really cool dude.
I've had the privilege of hanging out with him, smoking with him, fucking shooting the shit in person.
And yeah.
Alright, y'all. Lots of love.
Cheers. Thanks for stopping by.
