Welcome to Breeder Syndicate 2.0, where we explore the history of a clandestine scene.
Researching everything from cannabis strain history, old smuggling tales from the first
person perspective, to breeding science and news on current subculture.
I'm your host Matthew, and I'll occasionally be joined by my homie NotSoDog, breeder and
grower from Mendocino, to speak on these subjects and sometimes interview other participants.
Our goal is to document this history before it's written by corporations and others who
just weren't there.
Let's start righting some wrongs.
Welcome to the underground.
Can you kind of enlighten us a little bit on Mark Emery, both of you?
Just give us a quick take from a Canadian perspective on Mark Emery, because we don't
have a really clear one, at least from my era and point of view in the United States.
Well, like one thing I'm not sure about was Mark Emery involved in cannabis, cannabis
before like the hemp nation constitutional challenge?
No, no.
Well, the constitutional challenge, he started hemp BC by that time.
But you have to remember Mark's from this town, from my town.
Yeah, yeah.
He had a bookstore here called City Lights.
He scammed those people also, when it came to selling it.
But Mark, I call him the dark enemy for a reason.
I think it's very suiting it on, ironically matches his name.
But he is somebody that, you know, in his own words said he was against legalization
of cannabis due to the amount of money that he was making from selling seeds illegally.
He proved this when after hemp nation was busted for the second time.
Well, first time was Great Canadian Emporium, second time it was hemp nation.
The Chris was not allowed to sell paraphernalia after that.
So we decided or he decided that he reached out to Mark who had hemp BC and said, hey,
listen, do you want to buy all the inventory from hemp nation?
Because we need to raise the money for the constitutional challenge.
And he agreed.
He's like, yes, send me everything.
And then it was like pulling teeth to get paid from him.
And by the very end of it, I mean, it wasn't a shitload of money, you know, maybe it was
only 10, 20 grand or something like that in inventory.
But when you're fighting the government to legalize cannabis, every penny counts.
And Chris kept getting the, you know, oh, talk to my accountant, talk to my accountant.
At this time, it was in around this time, a friend of mine through through Red from
Legends mutual friend worked for Mark basically almost as like manager area of sales for his
direct seeds.
Yeah.
And he's doing something like 20, 40, $60,000 a week in cannabis sales and seed sales.
And when it was all said and done with hemp nation, Chris claimed bankruptcy with Mark
Embry still owing him money.
And it was only maybe a thousand or two thousand dollars at the end of it.
But it just showed what the term douchebag and yeah, my use of the word douchebag.
I said I have to start saving it for like the appropriate people.
And Dark Enemy is, I feel, the biggest douchebag in our industry.
He claims that he donated all this money and stuff like that, but he didn't.
He would, you know, he did an interview and I think it was on like CBC or something.
And Jody and him worked together for less than a year maybe.
And he's sitting there having her like clip his toenails on camera while he's being interviewed.
I think it was not a mistake.
He got up and he was butt naked or something like that.
And I was just like, what kind of fucking douchebag, again, the word douchebag.
Yeah.
Let's or allows his girlfriend, who was barely out of being a teenager at the time.
Yeah.
Got his fucking toenails on national TV.
I mean, yes, my girlfriend and my wife.
Sure, she would probably if I asked her to.
Yeah, but I wouldn't ask her to.
I would never in a fucking lifetime ask her to do it on camera to show me.
There was a big thing that came out like he he was just very inappropriate with.
I can't say I don't know of any charges that were laid.
I mean, there should have been.
I do know he did run for political office here in London and he was dating somebody
that we knew.
He was dating this guy's ex-wife.
And this guy had, I think, two kids, two boys.
And Mark Durham, his speeches kept saying, I'm a family man, I'm all about family.
You know, here's my wife and my kids.
And this guy was like, dude, you can't call my kids your kids.
And it ended up that Mark, I believe, was giving a speech or something down at one of
the parks.
And he said that.
And this guy walked out of the crowd, walked up and punched him.
I don't know if he did it on stage.
But like basically punched Mark in the fucking head and said, stop fucking claiming my kids
as yours because, you know, he's he was he's a showboater.
And the thing is, is he has he's done certain things.
He used to do something here.
He fought for for stores to be open on Sunday when he before when it was illegal.
Yeah.
Kudos for that.
He paid.
He had some of his staff or something follow.
Minute, the guy is doing the parking police, whatever, and walking around with nickels
or quarters.
And if he saw an expired meter, he dropped a quarter or nickel in it.
Kudos for that.
But you know, Mark, Mark is like the Donald Trump of the fucking cannabis industry.
Like he talks the talk, but he's burned so many fucking bridges.
Yeah.
The thing is, I got into yelling matches on on the phone.
And because he was like, why the fuck you bashing me?
I kicked him out of my store when he came into town.
He can go to high times, a guy from my competition to his horn as much as he wants.
But I know him.
And furthermore, when I opened Organic Traveler, I took over all of Hemp Nation's gear, everything
down from the display cases, including their computers.
So all these computers, I had access to all the files and all the outstanding debts that
Mark owed.
So I was badmouthing him and trying to be loud enough that he would hear me.
Yeah.
And obviously he did because he called me up one day on speakerphone with other people
in the background and and tried to bitch me, like try to make a scene.
Yeah, Mark, I got the fucking computers here.
I can tell you what date you made payments and what date and how much you owed at the
very end.
You tell me he's like Pete, it was only fucking thousand bucks, a couple thousand bucks.
I don't give a fuck.
You still owe it.
Dollars, man.
We were trying to fucking change the laws.
Chris went to fucking jail for this.
Sarah went to jail for this.
This guy's out there making tens, if not hundreds of thousands of dollars a month.
Yeah.
And he's going to stick some fucking guy that's trying to fight the marijuana laws.
So that he can do that.
Now, this comes through word of mouth, but the people that tell me this kind of thing,
I give ten times a thousand times more credit than I give Mark.
And they said, you know, he'll admit that off record, obviously, that why would he want
to legalize cannabis when he makes so much money off the fact that it is illegal?
And especially in the States, he wasn't charged in Canada.
He's charged in the States.
Yeah.
Right.
Like, fuck, buddy.
Move to the States.
I mean, I'm all for spreading the seed everywhere.
We don't want him.
Use that fucking, you know.
And what got me also was back then, I was actually breeding.
I'll do air quotes because it's not.
I was just breeding for seed to get the seed out there.
And again, we're going back to the mid 90s kind of thing.
We would send Mark seeds.
And this is when he first started his seed business.
And we would tell him that whatever was a buck a seed or a couple bucks a seed or something
like that.
And we'd be honest, like, listen, like I told you in the last interview, I would buy seeds
from Sensi or Greenhouse or something.
And then do a breeding just using those genetics and saying, hey, listen, this is this is our
Northern Lights.
We bought the Northern Lights 5.
We bought the seed.
We made our own seed.
We're selling it.
Right.
And he would say, well, we like to we wanted to blend it.
So we did like a Northern Lights chemo, which was something that we really liked.
And we would sell Mark the seeds and he would change the names or remove certain things
like he would just call the Northern Lights chemo just chemo.
Right.
Or just because it sells better.
Right.
Yeah.
So he was dishonest when he when it came to selling.
And, you know, it didn't happen.
He wasn't he wasn't selling it as, you know, Sensi seeds, fucking Northern Lights.
He was just saying, hey, this is pure Northern Lights.
But it wasn't pure.
It was fucking bred by me or Hemp Nation crew and or in a Hemp Nation garden or my garden.
And we were just doing it to spread the Johnny Apple seed.
We wanted to sell the seeds.
You know, we were selling, I think it was 10 seeds for 25 bucks or something, 50 a seed
to get it out.
Yeah.
The thing.
Right.
So, you know, people that again, I even said in the last interview, people that focus on
the money in this industry are in the industry, not the movement and people that claim to
be in the movement like Mark does, you know, and he he was hiding behind Jody to the very
end.
Right.
Like, I don't know what the fuck is wrong with that.
And I'm not going to get into any personal shit because there's some shit he's done to
friends of mine personally.
Yeah.
I mean, if you if you Google Mark Emery and you look for stuff, it's like there's stuff
out there.
When he got out West, I think it got worse, you know, like it's all about ego.
He all my friends, when we were out in Vancouver, we wouldn't step foot in the shop.
No.
Like on that strip, like like we wouldn't like we didn't even want to go into his establishment.
Like that's how much we disliked it.
We just knew like he was a piece of shit.
Like fuck him.
It sounds like again, he's it's about self-promotion with him.
It's nothing to do with the Indian movement.
He's not one of them.
It's anything but fucking, you know, he went to I think it was Thailand before he went
out West, you know, or maybe it was during because he went out there and like dropped
a bunch of money on some locals that, hey, I just bought this property.
He has fucking X amount of dollars.
I want a fucking house when I come back.
You know, when he came back, he went back there.
The land was just overgrown, nothing built and his money was gone.
So I would honestly wish that there wasn't so many, you know, he comes back to this town
and he thinks he's fucking he ran for political office last year.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And it was hilarious because every time I drove by him, I would call him a fucking douchebag.
Yeah.
Don't listen.
You're not liked around here.
Get the fuck out.
He got very little votes.
And the funny thing is, is I was either driving my Volkswagen bus and my Volkswagen car, my
gear or my truck or my Mini Cooper or my Jeep.
I was always driving something different.
So he's probably thought the whole fuck.
I hope other people join me.
But yeah, I was fucking yelling at him left, right and center because he doesn't fucking
live here while I might live here.
Now I don't even know.
I think he moved back here for a while.
I can't believe he would go back.
Honestly, like I like when I lived there, I didn't know one person that had anything
to say but negative.
But he he didn't choose to leave London, right?
He had to leave.
He ended up he ended up getting he started he ended up fucking a fireman's wife and I
got for some reason I thought he was fairly high up in the fire department.
I don't know if he's a chief or or something like that.
But rumor has it.
Yeah.
They walked into his fucking bookstore and said there's a lot of paper in here.
This is probably place would probably go up pretty quickly.
And sometimes we hit red lights or something along that line was said.
Yeah.
Right.
And again, could have been folklore could have been anything but because you know, I
knew what the type of person I know the type of person he is.
Yeah, for sure.
For sure.
See that.
So you know, it sucks to see people like that get all the attention.
And it gives me Yeah, people out there especially as a Canadian, like, what the fuck like, come
on.
Like that was especially like in BC.
He kept going in BC.
It's like, fuck.
Well, let's, you know, let's get to this.
So the one thing that was resounding, the resounding criticism from the last episode
was that there were one or two really loud BC growers that felt that that they were misrepresented.
Very extreme.
Can you explain it, Sean?
Better than me.
I before like when before we did the first one before we even recorded the first one
in our little homie chat, I said, there's gonna be some BC people pissed off.
Yeah.
And I have I have a specific question in mind, but I didn't even ask that question.
And they still got upset.
But I actually went back and listened.
And I know what he what the one guy at least was upset about.
And and it was that Pete said, it all started here.
I was like, yeah.
And then there was a comment about of course, there's there's good growers in BC.
They're all from Ontario.
Yeah.
But he was like this.
You know, well, but you and I have a very specific viewpoint, right?
Yeah.
But I'm back where I come from, right?
Like I grew up in London.
So I grew up around like I like there is like commercial what my friends called biker weed.
Right.
Which was just the commercial.
Right.
Yeah.
But once once you found like that, like that downtown family, which was not hard to find,
you know, you you got great pot, right?
Yeah.
Whether you were getting it from well, whatever.
I'm not going to name but like so me and my friends like, you know, we went on tour.
Right.
We were like, fuck this.
We're going on dead tour.
And we just wanted to like we wanted to see the shows because we we were heads.
But we also wanted to see fucking pot.
You know, that was like the two were just as equal.
So we went down, we did tour for a while.
That led us to the west coast of the US.
And we we saw that area.
And like, we were kind of like blown away.
Like number one, the cost, we could not fucking believe people were paying what they were
paying like that was just mind blowing.
Right.
Because it was comparable to back home to us.
And then when we got to the west coast, it's like same thing.
But like the only like, the only thing about the west coast is we saw new stuff that like
names we'd never heard of.
And obviously, there was people breeding there, right?
Because it was all this weird new shit.
It was the first time I saw like white weed, right?
Like it looked like mold in somebody's hand.
But they're like, no, that's you know, that's fucking, you know, resin.
And then, you know, I lived in Arcata for a while, right?
So I lived in Arcata for a good stretch.
And like, I was there for a while.
So I kind of saw and experienced what was going on in that area.
And it was really good weed like back home, though, you know, like, for me, it was like
what we had back home.
And then I got back home.
And like, I went into Pete's shop to like chat him up, because back home, there's not
too many people that you could talk about that stuff.
And they understand what you're talking about.
And at the same time, Juanit was taking me out to Vancouver with him, right?
And Pete's response was like, you were just like disappointed, super disappointed.
And you were like, everybody goes out west, and they think the weed is so much better
there.
And it's not.
It's not, you know.
And I think and like I said, I stand by the what I said before about all the good growers.
Well, I would say all but I can't say all right, because we don't know.
I'm gonna say a large percentage.
I'll give you a few examples because a large percentage I I got hired after a state in
Switzerland by a one of the larger brokers in the Vancouver area.
And like red, he was named after a different color.
Let's just say blue.
And and I think he's Ontario to honestly, but so they they dropped me into this middle
of butt fuck nowhere between Jasper and Kamloops along, I think it's highway five, and built
a huge greenhouse in the middle of the bush off grid.
I lived in a little log cabin off grid.
They already had a 300 300 bales of ProMix hiked into a bush and big huge outdoor beds.
And I thought fucking right now I'm in the middle of fucking nowhere.
I'm finally going to meet some of these, you know, grassroots VC growers that I fucking
heard about read about didn't meet fucking one person from BC.
Every single person I met was from Ontario or I'd say 80% from Ontario and the rest were
kind of mixed.
So go out to to Vancouver and the island and stuff like that.
You know, yeah, ask ask anybody where you from.
I'm from BC.
I was like, really?
Where were you born?
What part of like, I was born in Etobicoke.
What the fuck is that?
It's very rare.
It's been six months ago.
Well, no, you're not from fucking BC.
Yeah.
In the 90s.
It was very rare.
Like, most people that are from BC were born in the fucking 90s.
You know, like, it just wasn't populated.
It wasn't populated.
The population was tiny.
And like what I was told, actually, I'm not sure if it's totally true, but I think it's
believable was like in the 80s, they were offering offering stimulus sort of situations
for people to move to BC because it was so underpopulated.
And they were even like doing that to like, you know, lower income people like we'll give
you money and we'll give you a free trip to go to, you know, the fucking Vancouver area.
Like, it just wasn't populated.
Right.
So by the 90s, the great majority was not from there.
It just that's it's true.
The cannabis moved out there.
Again, like why everybody moves out there.
They think, well, you know, it's beautiful.
It's more climatized and so on.
All the power to them, for sure.
You know, but again, the genetics and the techniques and the information in their heads
come from Ontario.
I mean, there's a breeder out on the island.
He thinks he's a pretty great gardener.
I think he's OK, you know, besides Zingo.
But he's not from fucking BC.
You know, he's from this fucking town, you know, but like recently, maybe dark enemies
from here.
Chris Clay, Chris Clay's from here.
You know, I don't know about, you know, some of the other growers.
Sure.
There's phenomenal growers everywhere.
BC definitely has.
We're seeing a lot of podcasts now, right?
Like this, where a lot of people are speaking up and like Cray, not from BC, Scabby, not
from BC, Jay, not from BC.
Like every single person that that has spoken out about BC is not from BC.
Right.
Right.
I don't think we've heard what was moved out to BC.
I mean, I got I got bit by the bug also, like everybody and just some beautiful fucking
people out there.
And it is a lot stronger there because the laws were a lot more forgiving there.
It is.
But you know, when it when push comes to shove, yes, the people like, OK, where are you from?
If they say BC, ask them where they're born, because, you know, it's not like they I'm
surprised they got fucking maternity wards in fucking Vancouver because nobody's from
fucking Vancouver.
But there's some there's some right.
Like like like less than an hour I was off the plane.
We were smoking Texas at a time warp.
Yeah.
And it's like there was a whole bunch of Americans there, like like our whole like deadhead crew
that was in Vancouver.
Like we were strong supporters of the island organic outdoor.
You know, like that was good shit.
It was that would be a that'd be a good story for Red, too, if you ever want to.
Well, we did.
We did talk.
And there's a lot of cool people in BC.
There's a lot of good growers in BC.
And if somebody is like insulted at the fact that like BC isn't everything, maybe you're
not growing great weed if you're that insecure, you know?
I mean, I can throw like, you know, obviously, like I Mendo Mendo has some similarities.
And I'm going to because I'm like, as you know, you start talking about like, oh, where
were you born?
You know, and I mean, I'm a transplant out here now.
Granted, I ended up getting here a lot earlier, you know, like than most people.
And I've lived out here a long time, but I'm not from here.
And you know, when you look at the map of Canada, almost all Canadians are from where
you guys are.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, again, the largest population, southwestern Ontario.
And like I was saying before in the last podcast, where because of how we're situated, the Great
Lakes and glacial runoff, we have some of the best soil in Canada.
I mean, people don't probably realize that Canada is a huge place, but like, mostly look
at it like I think it's like 80, 90 percent of the people in Canada live within 100 kilometers
of the border or something like that.
And that I was I was kind of like, well, because Matt thought when we said London,
we're talking about BC, like his geography is like way out.
But like, I was trying to explain to like my American friends that like, we can't just
say Ontario.
We can't just say BC because it's too huge.
Like BC, right?
I was just saying even the coastal area, you have all these independent islands that are
like a place in themselves.
Then you have Vancouver, then you have like the Vancouver Island, which could be split
up in sections.
Then you have the Kootenays, which is like fucking 12 hours down the road that way.
Like it's just totally different places.
And when you say BC, like I'm sure the Koot's had much better quality because it was smaller.
And the Vancouver area and the coastal area was so big.
It was so commercial that it was just flooded with commercial.
It was so fucking flooded with commercial.
It was hard to find good weed because there was so much commercial to get rid of.
It was like nobody had time to even think about quality.
It was just like...
I think it's because a lot of the organized growers, organized crime growers, that's where
they were going to be around.
But when you get into like the Kootenays to Nelson area, you know, when you get into the
kind family mentality that still grow for the love of the plant.
So again, air quoted the movement people, not the industry people.
If you're in the industry, you are going to be in probably Vancouver.
You're going to be someplace west of Hope and south of Whistler kind of thing.
And then as soon as you get on to the island, same thing.
You're going to get more of the kind family vibe and mentality.
Right.
Yeah.
I spent some time out in Nelson and Wynlaw, that area.
Nelson is great.
And they were just like, you know what?
They grew phenomenal.
I even named my dog after a Kootenay strain.
It was called Kootenay.
You know, our friend, I got to mention, because he passed away, I don't know, a couple of
years ago, maybe, Cormie's.
Cormie's, yeah.
Yeah.
He passed away not long ago, but he was like a lot of our friends are there.
Right.
A lot of the people we grew up are there.
Most of our friends went to the Koot's.
I would say like of that, of like, like my age people that were brought up there, like
90% went to the Koot's.
I would say like the drum circles I used to have at Organic, we used to have all like
the hippies that would, hippie kids, I call them, like kids who were your age, maybe even
a little bit younger.
Yeah.
They used to all come to Organic Traveler, I did drum circles on Sundays or something
like that.
I'd say 90% of them ended out in the Nelson area and probably a good portion of them fucking
played in Wasabi kind of thing.
Like they were all.
Well, but that's the thing.
Like there was, in London, they were called Kangaroo, right?
This band, they were like a little fun damn band called Kangaroo.
But like, they all, like when they got old enough to go to college, they went there and
like everybody went there.
Yeah.
But then you had, you had, shit on my dipstick, what are they called?
Jimmy's band back here.
Yakimistic.
Yeah.
Shit on my dipstick.
Kangaroo and those guys, right?
Oh, Jimmy went with them.
Jimmy was with them.
Well, that, cause that, when they all got there, they joined up with a Wasabi Collective.
Like Jimmy was in that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, I mean, that's what I was trying to get at about, you know, the cannabis industry
and you know, I invite anybody that wants to challenge me on fucking, you know, East
Coast, West Coast, where all the growers come.
Like, you know, you think about it.
Yeah.
I just see it's not a pissing contest, you know, it's not a pissing contest.
Yeah.
And it shouldn't be, but it is for some, right?
And that kind of brings me into my next thing, because when I talk about, you know, Legend
Seeds, right?
And SOL, they're from this area, right?
Yeah.
And they're old friends.
And I listened back on my, on the last podcast and I use the words, the term we a lot when
I talk about these guys, because they're friends.
Yeah.
And when it came to their breeding and stuff like that, Legends and SOL, I was just, I
wasn't part of their, their company or part of their, their group.
I was friends with them.
I was there.
I might've, you know, did whatever they wanted me to do kind of thing as helping out a friend.
But I wasn't ever, when I say we, I don't mean I helped breed anything with these guys.
No, it was a friend circle.
It was a career.
Yeah, it was.
And it brought me to another point where in my book, there's a typo, which I'm surprised
Steve hasn't come and fucking try to fireball my house yet.
But when we were talking about the, the fast sphere, which we spoke about.
You said that though, the last one, you said this already.
You said that you'd seen this part.
On the very last paragraph of the one chapter, it says, I grew, it was supposed to say, I
grew an award-winning strain.
And it said, I bred an award-winning strain.
But it talks, the whole chapter, it just talks about me being a grower, I'm being a grower
there and working for Mr. Hampton.
You know, I answered to Steve, it was his program.
But the very last thing was just, it was a typo and Red brought it up and I was like,
oh fuck man, Steve's going to kill me because he thinks I'm trying to steal his fucking
limelight even though he stole my medal.
But I think that's a common thing in cannabis actually, because of how in the shadows and
clandestine it is.
I do the same thing, dude, where some of the stories I tell where it's we, it's like, there's
people that are known and there's people that are unknown.
Some of those people that are unknown wish to remain unknown.
You know, and so you're trying to tell history and tell a story, but you have to sort of
edit it to some degree because what you're giving is accurate information.
Right. And then the flip side of that is that there's people that want to be cannabis famous.
Yeah. Right. And they want to aggregate all the fame to them.
And so even if it might have been a collective of friends all doing it, they're going to
tell the story like it was them alone in their basement working for 10 years.
And then they came out with all this and no one else has shit to do with it.
When you know personally that there was like seven other dudes and it was this loose
collective of friends that were all involved.
And this breeding happened at this house then.
And then this accident happened over here.
And then this happened.
And it can be kind of weird to tell stories that way because a lot of money is made on,
you know, every breeder in my except for maybe Neville.
But most breeders are like, well, no, Neville was very clear about I got this from this
person. I got that from that person.
I did this and this. Almost all breeders after him were like this never existed before I
carefully crafted it.
And no one else has had any of these genetics ever.
Yeah, like they started a fucking land race kind of.
Yeah, like like they just obscure.
Yeah, I'm going to I'm going to break in because like not to interrupt the flow.
But I didn't get to actually ask my question when we were talking about the BC stuff.
And I want to ask this question.
Do it. So we're going to.
But it kind of is the same thing because it's a dishonesty thing or like an illusion
thing, I guess you would say.
But like that conversation, going back to that conversation when you were disappointed.
Um, you mentioned something and at the time you mentioned it, I kind of thought you were
crazy. Like I didn't like I didn't know because I didn't know.
Right. When somebody tells you something you don't know, you're kind of like, what?
But you said something about High Times and hyping the store.
What's that magazine or the store?
The magazine that like BC was only got really popular because High Times was hyping them
to kind of draw attention to them.
Do you remember this conversation?
No, no.
Well, what I what I remember, which this could be totally false, was that you were like
BC was like hyping up the big bud because at the time, like BC was really blowing up as
like. Right.
But you were like the magazine was kind of like trying to draw attention from the US and
D.A. attention to to BC.
I don't remember that conversation, but I mean, part of that sounded a little familiar.
OK, I think what High Times is trying to pimp was because California was such a huge
market for cannabis counterculture.
Yeah. Because High Times isn't a cannabis magazine.
Right. It's a counterculture magazine.
So that's why it has so much music.
It has so much cannabis is only a section of it.
Right. And for a few years they got rid of it.
Right. They didn't have cannabis for a few years.
And that's when they started Grow America for for a little bit.
But I think because the term BC bud, right.
Anything in Canada was BC bud.
Right. Right. Right.
So I think they were pimping that as well as because of the climate, you could have
larger outdoor grows and we could in Ontario.
They wouldn't go into Quebec where you could also have fairly large outgrowths because
of the language barrier.
So I think for High Times.
I wouldn't say I know for a fact, but pretty damn sure with my interaction with them that
they were pushing the BC bud because of its popularity in California, because your top
dollar, you know, anything from your tuna cans, fucking anything that was the BC bud
got the top dollar.
And I mean, I mean, there's a name that we mentioned in our last talk and he was a
broker. He's still in the industry.
He's I think he's a fucking great guy.
He knows, he knows a lot of history of this of this movement from the world of cannabis
from the West Coast.
But he was a broker and he used to sell be able to sell a certain type of outdoor.
And it was it was a pink something, but he was selling for twenty nine hundred dollars
a pound for to L.A.
Because it was that's nothing, though people were selling 32 for out.
Yeah, I realize that. But this is outdoor.
What year is this?
I was Canadian or U.S.
What year? Oh, OK.
OK, that makes it would have been the Beaster era.
Yeah, I would say like late 90s.
So like, you know, I can ask and I it was so it was a strain I think was called Sotica.
Cream Sotica.
Cream Sotica. Yeah.
So we grew that out in Switzerland, actually.
Yeah. And the guy that's growing it is I'm going to use the word douche bag again, which
I was trying not to use.
But this guy's a fucking douche bag.
He ran the farm that I was hired to work on in the interior.
And his name is Jay.
I don't know his last name, which I knew his last name, but I'd say it here, too.
What was the cream Sotica like?
The first time I ever saw that really unique plant, it had really bright
pink stigmas in it where
it wasn't a huge producer, but it grew kind of like a really short, kind of like the pink
Friesland, which I wouldn't be surprised if it might have, you know, again, traveled
west, which a lot of genetics did back in the day, as we talked about before.
That was just like, you know, it wasn't a very strong, structured plant, but it just
grew all these golf balls that just would I mean, maybe a little bit easier to trim,
but just look beautiful.
Rock hard. It would give you the BC bag of marbles.
And it's kind of what I call a lot of the, you know, any pot that comes across my desk
nowadays, I can basically look at it and tell you where it comes from by bag appeal,
because, you know, BC had the tendency for a while there of not trimming the pot, but
shaping it. So every nub looked like a fucking marble.
Right. Yeah. Great.
You know, but I mean, it's back when they were making tons of extract.
So they were trimming off a lot of the stuff because they knew they were going to be
able to use it kind of thing.
And then you got the bag of marbles, the BC bag of marbles that was just kind of a
look. So I think that the cream sodica was was a strain that was kind of easy for their
outdoor to look like indoor.
Yeah. And that's why Bubble was able to fucking, you know, for ridiculous amounts of
money. We got a strain out here called the West Coast Dog like that.
This is outdoor for indoor type shit.
That's been the game.
I mean, and where I live in Mendo, it's like that's been the game forever of brokers
being like, well, this outdoor passes light depth.
Yeah. Does this light depth look good enough to pass as indoor?
Yeah. Because where there was uneducated areas of the country or whatever, they were
like, can I can I put this into a different bracket?
Can I buy this for what it is but claim it's the next grade up?
There's tons of people. I mean, and that's the that's the industry enveloping the
movement, the movement.
Right. Because there's going to be people like myself that say, hey, listen, you know,
it's outdoor. It looks like indoor, you know, but fuck, I'm going to be honest with
you. And if you want to be dishonest after that, that's up to you.
But I'm probably going to charge you fucking more money.
You're going to pay a fucking tax on something that looks spectacular.
I don't give a fuck if it's indoor or outdoor or fucking greenhouse or, you know,
small crop, large crop, you know, hand trim, machine trim.
You know, there's there's so many variables at the end of the day.
If it fucking looks good, smells good and fucking kicks you in the nuts, then what the
fuck? Who cares how it's grown for me?
I think like what do we what do we do when we grow indoor?
All we're trying to do is mimic outdoor.
We're trying to mimic Mother Nature.
Mother Nature has the fucking the formula down where now we're able to with technology
and so on, we're allowed we can better Mother Nature.
But for the longest time, we were just trying to reproduce outside inside.
Right. I do think we can do everything better than nature indoor except for the sun.
No, no. Of course you can.
The sun is the sun still by far is the best light.
Right. And I've done all kinds of spectrum experiments, all this.
And, you know, to some degree, it's interesting, too, because like all almost all of the
award winning hash made in California is all made with the sun.
Right. You know, they don't use indoor grown stock.
Indoor might get, you know, humans are so visual that indoor might look prettier, you
know. And I also wanted to make a comment when you guys were talking about Ontario, you
know, just different areas.
There could be a lot just for the simple fact that BC bud rhymes.
Yeah. Yeah.
You know, Southwestern Ontario doesn't really like what do you what do you call Ontario
weed? Like so, you know, I live in Mendocino County or whatever.
And like whether it came from Trinity or Mendocino or Sonoma or whatnot, if it went on
dead tour, it was Humboldt County organic outdoor.
Yeah, exactly. Well, and that's what I was going to say, like what you were mentioning is,
you know, Humboldt is the B.C.
of of the states pretty much right.
Like anybody that was anybody that wanted to be a park rower moved to California.
Then once they were like, oh, we're in California.
Now, what do we do?
Like Humboldt, again, probably didn't have a fucking maternity ward, didn't need one
because there was only a few fucking people that live there.
And then all of a sudden the cannabis craze came.
And of course, they were like, oh, well, I move up there.
I can name it.
I can Humboldt County.
Yeah. I'll tell you, when I first moved to Mendocino County in the 90s, there was so few
people moving here from outside that everyone thought I was a cop.
Yeah. Oh, yeah.
Also, because because you look like a cop.
Yeah. Yeah.
You look, you know, fuck that, dude.
I can tell you, I mean, we want to talk about dead tour.
The first time I saw a cop tackle somebody on the lot with dreadlocks down to his ass
and then pull out handcuffs.
Yeah. I was like, oh, yeah.
Yeah. No, I'd say you can't tell what an undercover cop looks like, but you can tell what
regular cop looks like.
Yeah. I'm like that, you know, but the only reason I said that is because it was before
what we call the green rush.
Yeah. Where people weren't moving like people didn't move to the towns that I was moving
to. Yeah.
Like out of towners didn't come there within five, six years as medical advanced and sort
of the green rush occurred.
It got overwhelmed by much like you were saying with B.C.
Almost none of the growers from Mendo were born in Mendo.
Right. They were all transplants.
I mean, there was a small core, certainly, that was from there.
Yeah. But if you added them up by like number, it was probably like 90, 90, 10, 10
percent were from there.
That's the same thing with B.C.
Like, again, I'm not going to pull, you know, I think B.C.
has produced and still does produce phenomenal growers.
I was saying that back in the day, most of those growers and therefore a lot of their
genetics came from, you know, east or south.
And there's there's a debate on that, too, like not so much in but just in the sense of
where is something from?
Yeah, exactly. You know, like like the you know, we have this came from came through
the came through because there's this whole thing where like, oh, the Kush is from
Florida. What's the story of the Kush?
And they're like, oh, well, it's this clone from the Emerald Triangle.
And then pollen from some stuff we got from Neville and Holland.
Right. But it happened in Florida.
Right. You know, so I see.
And again, back when I was growing the Kush before it was Kush kind of thing, it was
just basically the, you know, from the Kush region of Afghanistan.
Like I would say if people say, well, where's the where's the Hindu Kush from?
Well, probably the Hindu Kush mountains.
Right. Like these are they might have, you know, took a cutting or a seed, you know,
they might have brought something back during the war times, you know, which a lot of
the genetics did come from soldiers returning from fucking overseas and bringing
seed that they that they grabbed and planted in California, Florida, fucking
Wyoming, fucking anywhere, everywhere.
And so it was just what ended up happening is where all the cool people or where the
population that were like minded ended up moving to in Canada, it would be B.C.
You know, in California, it was going to be probably San Francisco or that area
following kind of the whole hippie movement and so on.
So I would say I don't say I shouldn't say that the strain or their genetics came
from South West, South West and Ontario.
I could say that they most likely came through and they probably came through
California to get to B.C.
But again, when you get strains like Texas, Texas, a time warp, there's certain and I
was I found some seed that from Gabriola.
Right. Like where they come from.
I'm sure there's people on the island that will claim or and rightfully so say, well,
they came from Texas because they came from California.
And we took we took pollen from Ontario or we took pollen from fucking, you know, some
seed that we got out of Africa.
You know, I used to order seeds from fucking Africa back in nation days, like literally
from a seeds dealer out of.
Fuck. Yeah. I think I'm looking South Africa, the Swazi and Swazi pepper.
There's another strain. But, you know, I would use that in my breeding program.
For you know, I'm going to put that in quotations again.
I would use that when I was making seeds and that made that strain from here.
Right. Did it originate here?
Yes, the seed did.
But the genetics that it came from obviously didn't come from here because we have very
little, if any, land races as same as B.C.
has very little to any same as California.
They might they might have a land race there.
I don't know of one.
Right. But the land race.
No, no.
I mean, I think I think most most California breeding, if I had to guess what the very
inception of California breeding is, it was like, how do we make these sativas that we're
getting free seeds with these kilos we're getting?
How do we make them finish in our area?
Yeah. Oh, well, I have some Mexican and that stuff seems to finish earlier.
So maybe I'll take some of this Thai or Colombian and I'll cross it to Mexican.
Yeah. And it was literally very like very it was very I don't think people had goals
other than the fact of like, I need this to finish before January.
Well, I think that's where a lot of the genetics were built and why they were built,
because I know and that's why, again, going back to the East Coast, West Coast, we had
draft dodgers that fucking ran the border and and brought their genetics up to
southwestern Ontario again, because being so close to Detroit, so close to Buffalo, you
know, the most southern part of this country, the soil, the so on, so forth.
Perth County conspiracy, the whole kind of deal.
What were we breeding for? What was I breeding for?
I wasn't breeding for anything other than I want to take that fucking strain and grow it
in my house, in my basement, and I don't want to run it for 14 weeks.
Right. So I'm going to find so and again, my a lot of my I was I was a sativa lover.
So I wanted if I could grow an original haze in six weeks.
That produced that one and a half pounds per light, I'd be in heaven.
So that's where I was. That's my whole program.
That's what it was about.
Oh, when I used to I used to read Neville's catalogs and sensei and God, anything that was
in that forty five to fifty day range just looked attractive.
It did. And I just you know, I didn't get any I didn't believe it.
I really put the fucking the Amsterdam guys through a lot of shit in my years just
because I called bullshit on a lot of them because I grew out a lot of their strains.
And I was just like, this is you know, I'm at 60 days.
I'm not going to argue at a fifty five or 60 day flower.
Right. That's fine with me.
And so I put you're saying forty five today, forty five to fifty days.
I'm like, yeah, I don't know about that, you know, and they give me the fucking yields.
I was like, yeah, I don't know about that.
You know, like but again, maybe again, that's business.
So they need to they want to sell that seed and they want to sell that seed to be
attractive to the indoor grower or attractive to the North American grower who if they are
going to grow outdoors, they want it to be done in September.
They need it to be done by October.
You know, I mean, when you when you look at like California history before the
helicopters, people were fine with things taking into November.
No big deal when there was no police pressure and they weren't worried about the
November is fine.
All of a sudden you get camp and you get all these helicopters in the sky and they're like,
when can I pull down in September?
Yeah. That extra two months is a real problem.
Three months is an extra problem.
We had snow that we had to worry about up here.
All right. Like the cops, the cops here go out in August.
Right. So the choppers are in the air in August, September, maybe kind of thing.
Right. Because we have to be down.
Ideally, we have to be down by the end of the month.
Right. Because we have to be down ideally end of September, early October.
If you go anything past that, bud rot and stuff like that.
You know, we still get the humidity.
We are surrounded by the Great Lakes.
We get you know, we get the cold, the hot days, the cold nights.
We get bud rot like you wouldn't fucking believe, you know, I believe I believe it.
I mean, I I think as as some of these states like New York and New Jersey and and a lot
of these New England start to open up and what they want is they want all these California
bread strains. Yeah, I know.
Because that's what's famous and they want to sell the name.
But what they really should be after is the Canadian bread stuff.
Well, they again, but they're like we say before, the BC bud is going to sell the SW
Ontario bud.
They're going to what the fuck does that mean?
Right. Even the Quebec, Quebec bud, they're going to say, oh, I know Quebec.
They're not going to know of Ontario and Ontario is the biggest fucking most populated state.
It definitely by far has the most pockroach in it simply because of per capita, the amount
of fucking maybe not per capita, but because of the amount of people population.
Right.
But it's it's going to be a hard sell to say Canadian Canadian buds.
It's all they're all going to say BC bud.
Right.
And it's marketing.
That's it's what's going to sell it kind of thing.
Unfortunately, or, you know, fortunately, whatever to me, I really could give any fuck
of a less, honestly.
But, you know, it is it is hard for me here trying to sell down into the States.
Unless they they knew me or they knew the genetics I was growing and high times their
office knew what I was doing because I used to fly down there with
weighed out aces and weighed out quarters in glass jars.
I also was it was a 25th anniversary party.
They had Cypress Hill and Joan Jett and whoever else.
I supplied all the pot to that party because high times couldn't really afford
that back then, especially the high end pot.
All the super, super nice nugs that you see in that magazine and you see Snoop Dogg with
a big fucking plate of buds in front of them and big joints.
They rent all that pot.
They rent it.
They rent it.
Rent.
You can rent weed.
Yeah, they rent weed for the Photoshop for the photo op.
And then anything that is smoked, they're paying four or five, six hundred dollars an
ounce.
So there's this when they were telling me that they're like, oh, fuck, man, they're
all another fucking big fat fucking blunt.
That's going to cost us fucking three hundred dollars.
You know, what a bunch of clowns.
Yeah, I'll do.
Well, you got to remember what era it was, though, too.
I mean, it was it was it was ridiculous.
You know, I know Sean was trying to get us to talk about like our our, you know, some
of our Amsterdam and Cup experiences because we overlapped.
But, you know, when I would go, I went to three cups in the 90s, I think like 95, 97,
98.
Right.
Right.
And what I experienced was that, like you were just saying, all the best weed was set
aside for like the celebrities.
Yeah.
And the people that were going to pay top dollar for it and the people that wanted to
show up and like they didn't care if they drop mad coin.
So it was actually like one of the worst weeks or months.
It is a week to visit Amsterdam, because if you were just a normal person, they're like,
well, we have good weed, but we're going to sell it for three times what it's worth.
Yeah, because people are North American tax.
You're going to pay the North American tax because we have all these celebrities coming
in and we have all these musicians and stuff and these entourages.
We've got all this weed and hash that aside just for them.
And we're going to charge them out the nose for it.
And so we can't give it to you unless you want to pay this like exorbitant price.
Yeah.
It gets ridiculous.
And again, New York is the same way.
LA was the same way.
New York and LA, obviously, were the highest markets, I think, ever, any place in the world.
And when High Times used to do like in the very back of the pages, like the prices from
around the world and around the country and how much an eighth was and how much an ounce
was and stuff, it was always LA and New York at the fucking top kind of thing.
But with working with High Times and Kyle knew my genetics, like I said, when he was
coming here to buy it and shipping it back to Detroit, I would send Nugs down to him.
And we had the thing going where I'd mail it to the High Times office.
And then inside, I'd be like, I hope this gets you busted, you fucking douchebag.
And putting in all this hate mail with a half pound of pot in it kind of thing.
Right.
And when the 25th anniversary party was coming up, they reached out to me and said, hey,
listen, would you be interested in selling us pot?
And I was like, yeah, sure.
I mean, we've been doing it enough kind of thing.
I said, what were you guys thinking?
They threw out a number and it was something like three grand a pound or something like
that.
And I said, and US.
So I said, OK, let me think about it.
And I'm like thinking to myself, what fucking kind of people are these fucking morons?
So I call them back up.
I say, listen, I can't take three grand.
And Kyle's like, Pete, that's pretty fair.
I was like, OK, I'll do this.
I'll take twenty four hundred dollars a pound, right?
US.
And I'm going to mail a few boxes of jars.
So I didn't like I didn't mail zip freezer bag, half pounds of pot other than what they
wanted for the party, which was just a few pounds or something like that.
But I mailed probably at least a pound that was already weighed out and sealed in glass
jars with fucking homemade labels on every jar.
And I would I would mail them separately.
And then when I got down there, I sat in Steve's office.
Well, either Bloomy's office or.
There's one other office.
Anyways, I would just I would sit in their office and they would come in like one at
a time and choose.
And I was like, listen, it's fucking I think I was.
Stiffing them a little bit, I might have charged fifty bucks an eighth kind of thing
because I could and it was like I was shipping literally jars that were cured and it was
like my my nicest stuff.
I got that's a risk.
I got to sit on the couch with Jack Herrera and I was super stoked because I was like,
listen, Jack, I want you to smoke this golden haze.
It's my strain.
I read it, but I used some genetics that, you know, this NL5 skunk one that made his
that sense he used to make his strain.
I use some of that.
I used a.
A version of keeping that kind of blend in mind because it was exactly what I wanted
in my strain, I wanted, like I said before, short fat sativa giving high from a plant
that's going to finish in less than 60 days and I could grow in a fucking room with nine
foot ceilings.
Yeah, and it was like when he when he, you know, tried my my stuff and he's like, wow,
that's fucking really nice, tasty, so on and so forth.
I made my fucking it made my career at that time kind of thing just to get there and and
smoke a joint with him at the same time having.
Who was the head of who was a Hagar Hagar that is?
Hager.
Yeah, Stephen Hager.
Yeah, so I would I think I was sitting in his office, actually, because he was the head
honcho and I was selling fucking.
Quarters and ace and shit like that pre jarred up to the entire staff kind of thing.
And then the party was, you know, that night and I was just like they paid me fucking
ridiculous amount.
I mean, and I took less far less than what they were offering me because I was kind of
honored one that I can.
Yeah, you know, supply the pot, but I was also making a shitload of money by selling
them my private.
Growers jar collection kind of shit.
So that's a testament to London because like you don't know how hard it is like being on
the internet and talking to weed guys trying to say that Southwestern Ontario had fucking
great pot.
Nobody believes it.
No, no, no.
Yeah, they're just like, you can't have great pot, man.
All you have is fucking cities and cornfields.
But again, it comes down to population when you when you have 10 to 15 times the amount
of people jammed into a certain area, there's going to be phenomenal pot growers, as well
as the the people that really want to find that unique strain.
And they travel the world, maybe not for pot.
But due to the amount of people, the population, they travel all over the world.
And if they fucking find pot in Thailand or North Africa or someplace in like, oh, I got
a couple of seeds, but throw them my fucking in my shoe.
Yeah.
And it's just because of the amount of people that we have coming back here.
And again, why I would always say that I think Southwestern Ontario produces some of the
best pot growers and genetics passing through in Canada.
A lot of that, though, is due to community building, because like, you know, the Hemp
Nation thing, like when that happened, and you were offering what you did at that place,
a lot of people learned a lot from it.
Even it literally planted the seed for a lot of people, right?
Because Chris gave gave people the option to buy their own seed, not take bagweed and
find a seed and not know, you know what the fuck it is.
We were we were kind of weeding out some of that.
We've been telling you what it is.
We will tell you it's going to be something within this range because it is an F1.
We just took this sensi seed and we took this greenhouse seed and we grew them.
And this is what we got.
And the mother was this and the dad was this and this is what they look like.
And this is when they finished and so on.
So we gave them an educated guess.
But it was literally planting the seed of people.
When I started that Grow Your Tuition campaign in London here, just for all the students,
right, giving them discounts, I had a coupon on a flyer that gave them a discount on GrowGuides.
And then, like I said, information, the best thing about information is it's free.
If you wanted to come down on the Sundays and we have cultivation talks, you know,
I didn't mind sharing that.
I fucking love talking about that's what we're doing right now, right?
Like, yeah, we were doing this back in the mid 80s, mid 90s kind of thing.
Back in the fucking.
It's it's really it's actually really hard for me to tell people today with like what
we're doing right now and all the forums and IG and all the ways that people can connect.
How tough it was to get information, how how small groups used to be,
how rare it was to find people that like knew what they were doing.
And then the other thing is like I always I still consider like 90s to be like the golden era of
weed just in the sense because basically any like weed was rare enough that it could take too long.
It could not look that great as long as it worked really well.
Yeah, it was going to gain popularity, you know, because there was there was only so
much of it. So like a lot of the famous strains in the 90s rose to the top because they were
really good. Yeah. You know, and they didn't really have a I think a lot of people nowadays,
you know, the placebo effect comes into play a lot with all these new genetics.
Sure, there's a lot of fire out there, but there's people that are just like,
oh, well, this is this strain, right? Oh, this is a kush.
Oh, well, and it has the smell of a kush, but it has a you know, it doesn't really rock you like
some of the yeah, but since it's it's it, you know, smells like it looks like it fucking must
fucking be the close enough. And then they're just like, oh, yeah, I'm super high. I'm super high.
You know, I've done that with my my clients at the Compassion Center where
they were they were like, oh, you know what? I Northern Lights doesn't work for me. It's,
you know, I've tried it and it's it's just, you know, I smoked it back in the 80s.
I didn't like it didn't didn't get me high. Okay, well, the Northern Lights I have is not the same,
but I give them the Northern Lights. That is fire for other people. They're like,
yeah, it didn't really do it for me. I mean, your mind is quite strong tool.
Yeah, I would do the same thing. And I was infamous with my organic traveler crew, like all
the you know, glass blowers that were downstairs and all this that thought they were these,
these pot snobs. And they'd be the same thing like, oh, yeah, you know what? That's that stuff's,
you know, it's not that great. Okay, well, they had that tasty bud shit.
That little fucking flavoring. Oh, God. Yeah. You plant juicy jays tasty buds. Yeah, whatever.
Fuck. So I would actually take some of that I would take fucking great pot. But you know,
the triangle this one glass blower. He was just always against like, I know that but he was like,
oh, I had this cherry bomb once and it was fucking awesome. So I fucking took the cherry
shit and did a little light mist on it kind of thing and put it in the jar and let it sit there
and same fucking string that I gave him. Right? Yeah, made the nugs look a little bit different
made him look a little bit smaller. I was like, Hey, listen, this is not called cherry bomb. It's
called cherry blossom. This guy just came through he's from Tobacco or fucking Peterborough. And he
opens it up and he's like, Oh, yeah, it smells like this is good and fucking smokes is like,
yeah, that's fucking see we need to put on crime this this brain as I fuck you do that's the god
day. So we fucking you smoke fucking two weeks ago you said we shit. You know, I just put tasty
bud on it. And now none of those guys would fucking trust me to give him any fucking pot.
And oh, fuck no. Yeah, you're in that. Fuck you, man. That's fucking tasty bud. And I was like,
no, it's actually not kind of thing. But so yeah, I've been accused of using that on some
of the blueberry stuff we put out. The tasty bud stuff. Like when people smell like good blueberry
stuff. Yeah, this is this is a syrup. I think a lot of people you know, and if you smell my B 93,
like it does it smells like not the blueberry smell, but it smells like a pint of actual
blueberries, right? You know, I see a little bit more that that sweet, earthy aroma. And again,
it's from it's from 93. That's when we started to see right like it's an it's an old fucking plant
kind of guy. I got them. I'm going back to that era. And it would have been I would I would have
gotten indirectly. Or basically was when he was first releasing his blueberries. If I remember
correctly. I mean, Tony could have had it earlier. Don't get me wrong. But I think that
Tony had with Simon and they had cerebral in 94. Right? And then they split and Tony made
Sag Martha and Simon made serious. Yeah. You know, I think Dan I think DJ short was with
Tony with Tony and they did the bubble gum and they called it 94 blueberry. If I remember
correctly. Yeah, he worked with Tony. He sold it through Tony first and then they had some falling
out and then I think he moved to Dutch passion. Yes. Yeah. He got angry at all of them and then
he and then he moved to Canada. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. And that's the thing is and this is where
he met up with Steve and red and I'll call him the air mechanic because I don't know of a nickname
for him. He was a great grower. Didn't do anything huge like 12 lights or something. But
I know if I'm not mistaken, again, red would be the better
information on the background on this, but I believe they bred the blue satellite.
Okay, I know they were doing a grow out for DJ. And but that was a little bit later. So I the
seed that I got was just before that. And that's where I was thinking that it might have came
indirectly from DJ. But it would have been like, I thought it was I know it was 93. But I thought
it was actually from him and not from from Tony. Or from is it? Is it a clone that's still alive?
Yeah. Oh, um, I literally just killed off like 675 to 80% of my genetics. Yeah, guys, I'm just
I'm retiring. I'm tired. Really frustrated. I was actually there today trying to salvage what one of
my staff from the center he's like, if you can save me all these strains, I'll find somebody to
grow the to babysit him for you until you get over this divorce shit. And if I wanted to go into
it, like, out of the 123 123 strains that I had, I had data collected on their use, medical uses
through the compassion center, going back almost 15 years. Yeah. So because in Canada, we cannot
say, well, this strain works for this medical condition. Sure. What I could do is saying,
out of the 30 people that suffer from Ms. This is their the top selling indica. This is the top
selling sativa. I think that's responsible, actually. And it would just be basically giving
them. Well, it's data. Say again, it's data to use. I mean, yeah, I did it for like literally
for almost 15 years. I've collected this. That's the most important shit. I had it all fucking
ready and packaged to go into the LPS up here. And I just fucking saw the dark side of the fucking
industry. That was just chewing and spitting out anybody from the movement. Yeah. And I took a lot
of heat from people. I think we talked about this last time from, you know, people in the movement
that thought I sold out by going to into the LB. Yeah. Legal. I mean, it's crazy, because it's what
you've been working for your entire life. Yeah. It's like, fuck it. That's fucking crazy. You
can't fucking steer the boat if you're standing on the shore. Fucking yelling like get on the phone.
As you like, the best direction you can. And that's what I was doing with my genetics. I was
like, I can't. I'm again, strains, names are names to me. Because I'm I'm out for the medical benefits
of it. I don't give a fuck what you call it. And that's going to come back to the dog shit.
Where it doesn't it didn't really make a difference. Now I had a I had a strain I called
warm diarrhea. Right? Oh, it was really marketable. Yeah, no, it was this one strain didn't produce
a fuck. But holy God, Jesus, did it ever smell like dog shit? Fucking warm diarrhea? Like
hot summertime fucking diarrhea squirted on it like kind of smell. Yeah, I know.
I know. It's phenomenal. It's like, so I called it that. I was like, I don't know what it is. It's
a fucking clone that I went to. I was consulting a guy's garden. He fucking said these are my
strains. I was like, where are they from? He's like, I fuck you know, my brother in law gave me
some of this and some of that and I found some seed and this and that. And this one fucking
one plant was like, holy God, Jesus, that's nasty. I gotta have it. Got it. And, you know, with with
Sam when he was doing his skunk, and everybody was like, oh, it's you know, that that and I just
have this conversation today actually with my cousin, because he's like, I had a skunk one back
when back when Tilly was fucking growing for the center, right? And I'll find the picture because
it may it was a full page picture in high times. And it's this kid holding one of the nugs up and
he's holding his forearm. And the nug is twice the size of this kid's forearm. Oh, wow. That was my
skunk one. And it's you know, you grow the true skunk one I believe is mainly grown for structure
more than that skunky smell. If I'm not mistaken, I think Sammy was actually trying to get rid of
that. And I think I was I was that's his claim. Yeah. You guys will cover this. You don't you
don't follow like modern IG culture and stuff. But like, there's been a massive, massive movement on
finding roadkill skunk, which everyone's gonna do. Because I was gonna I'm making that this the
cuttings that I sent out West today, this guy, and I don't know his fucking name, I'll find out.
But he sent one of my Sasquatch, the kid that works for me, who's like the cannabis connoisseur.
He ended up getting this fucking jar of skunk one. I opened it up and I was like, holy fuck,
that's my skunk one. It smells like and I called it roadkill skunk one. I didn't know that was a
name called roadkill. I was Yeah, it's not a strain, though. It's just it's just a reference
to a type of expression that can come from Afghanis or skunky plants. Okay, well, this,
this skunk one grew the structure and the and my cousin just said, Listen, if you get it,
I want to breed with it. Because it has the if it's the same cut that this guy's sending me,
it smells the same. The nugg looks the same, I have to find out if the structure is the same,
because the structure was what the skunk one was all about. Like, yeah, I have that big nugg that
fucking can hold itself. And like I said, this Tilly kid that was growing and we do it on an
evanflo table. And they were just spikes. They were just these big, beautiful fucking fragrant
roadkill smell. skunk one. So, you know, and I think I was I try to put some of your guys podcasts
on. I don't listen to podcasts. So in all honesty, the first and only podcast I really listened to
was like three nights ago when it was while I was going to bed and I wanted to hear what we did.
Yeah. And something else came up and you guys were talking about Sam's breeding trying to
breed out the skunk one, the skunky. You know, actually, and, and focusing on structure. And I
was like, that's ironic, because that's what I wanted. But I was also chasing that. That super
skunk kind of aroma. Yeah. And it was this roadkill. Like, yeah, because it doesn't smell
like skunk when you spray that tarry kind of burnt. But it had that fucking you're driving
down the fucking road. And you're like, holy shit. Yeah, that skunk, you know, yeah, it had
that smell to it. So maybe I remember that from like, London, I definitely remember skunky smells.
And like, I kind of relate it to like that Heineken skunky beer smell more than animal smell.
Right? I have a question for you, Sean, this is totally off topic. Does Canada get green Heineken
bottles are brown? Green is not so. Yeah. No. Okay. So check it out. Right. So you can say
Jesus Christ, but I go to Holland in the 90s. And they have the Heineken brewery, right? Yeah,
is like was moved now like, but it was in Amsterdam and they gave tours, you know. And so
if you buy a Heineken in Holland, it's in a brown bottle. Right. And you talk you talk to like the
Dutch about it. And I'm like, well, why? Why is it in a green bottle in America? And they're like,
oh, because you guys are dumb, but it's iconic over there. So you want the green bottle,
but it oxidizes. So it makes the beer go skunky and shit. Yeah. If you get it in Europe,
it's a dark brown bottle. Okay, because we don't want the light to fuck it up. But well,
but that tastes American classic taste. And like we have another beer used to this like
oxidized skunky beer. Yeah. So it's like, and he's like, you buy in Heineken anywhere in Europe,
it's in a brown bottle. You go to the USA, it's in a green bottle. And he's like, it's just
advertising. We have we have two, we had two beers that were like the pot beers, and it was
Heineken and moosehead. And moosehead was also in a green bottle, you know, but they both had that
very skunky skunky like, to get a six pack and some weed and smoke weed and smoke like,
and drink moosehead was like, that was the thing, you know, that was like they paired,
you know, you guys are so Canadian, bro. Yeah. I mean, what's what's funny?
I've been drinking beer in like 20 years. I'm beer. I just, I just, I, you know, I just had
to throw it out there because I was like, shocked when they literally were like, Oh, we only do that
to the dumb Americans. Right? That's like legit what they said, you know, and so I was like,
I guess that includes Canadians. But yeah, what's funny about what's funny about the skunk,
you know, is that, like, we're all so old now. Right? I there was this thing that tripped me
out because you don't feel old in your head, even though when you're getting old,
where I saw this thing where like, the 90s are as far away now, as the 60s were in the 90s.
Yeah. Right. And so there's all these smokers, that, like they all this stuff we're talking
about all this stuff that's like our youth, you know, and you know, in our 20s and everything
else that was so common. This is all legendary, just words. Now, the reason why they're hunting
that skunk is because it's gone away. And while it was super common in the 90s, and there was
lots of weed that was very skunky or had skunk type turps, it's kind of gone away, you know,
and so now it's like, you know, we were talking about how BC bud rhymes or whatever, but like,
Northern, all these strains are coming back again, and they don't even have to be the actual strain
anymore. It just has to have the name. Yeah, because the name is the population, the users
are so young that they won't know the difference. They don't know they weren't smoking the NL.
Back in the day. They're not smoking pot anymore kind of thing. Right. So Mark is down, you know,
like the big the big strain back in my day was like the NL five skunk one, right? Yeah, that was
the go to that was if you know, the center of the road easy to grow, big yield, depending on what
phenotype you got, you know, it kind of was the best of all worlds. And it was again, it was an
easy grower kind of thing. But you know, to find anything like that, I think like pot now is so
bastardized. Yes, I agree. It's it's not as simple, you know, and sure. My Matt, was it I didn't have
another question. We were talking about the triple SC last time. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Right. And so do you
have any contact to any of the good old boys that were part of that group? Yeah, we interviewed them.
Okay. Corral, the original owner. Okay. Now, was he out of Amsterdam or very much very much so he's a
Dutch born? Yeah, okay. So but he's not originally from the States that are trans. He didn't know. He
didn't move there. No, he's, he's definitely Dutch. Okay. So did they have offsprings of the
their group in California? No, they said they never worked with anyone in the United States ever.
Now what not work with I'm just thinking that after they were there, that they move that after
maybe some of their colleagues, staff or something, I want to find out about the golden boy. Because
the way I what I was told was that this strain came from Ontario, and I wouldn't say maybe like
more up central north of southwestern Ontario. But it came from the triple SC
or somebody from that group that is now living in Canada. And we're going back to like,
like, that's a C didn't have a strain called golden boy either.
They had they have like m one m two m three m four m five m six. Yeah. They have little names
after but it'd be like Nigerian Kandahar or skunk one or basic five. It was very, very basic. There's
very basic. There's Williams wonder. Yeah, all names like that. No golden boy though.
Can you ask them though? Like, yeah, if you can reach out and just ask them because
the story that I had was it came from from their group, and I believe it was bred by them.
And it might have had like an M 24 or something. Yeah, yeah.
But it and it was a it was a 45 day finishing plant. And that's what was so was a fucking
crazy wasn't best yielder. It was a really weird looking plant. But it was 45 days.
Was it an indica or sativa?
It was, I would say would have leaned I would say I wouldn't even say it was
lean either way. I would have to look at some of the pictures. That's so fast.
That I think I even have. I'm gonna have that's like mighty, might fast, isn't it?
Dude, it was super fast. It was ridiculously fast. It wasn't a great strain on its own.
But it was great for breeding. Yeah, that's what I again made the my twitch called golden haze.
Because there was other things and it was chemo and
skunk in it. And we crossed it with the golden boy because I wanted to speed it up. But my,
my, what I was looking for was a fast growing short fat sativa. Yeah. So the, the haze,
there was a early skunk chemo crossed with the haze. And then we crossed it with the golden boy
to speed it up. And interesting. Yeah, you know, see all over the place. I just I found one that
seemed to fit the the mold I was looking for. And I just call I didn't have a seed of it. I just had
a cutting of it. Yeah. And then we did breed it with some other strains my buddy skipa
who unfortunately has passed away but he he crossed it with something blue string. Maybe
it was even like blue skunk out to look it up. I might still have some of those seeds too. But
I just wanted to find the lineage of that golden boy because I was told it came from the triple
SC boys. Early 90s maybe mid 90s. So they were done by then. Yeah, they were done. That's I mean,
yeah, yeah, they were long gone by then. I'm just thinking if it was offspring from them.
And even being off literally offspring, kids of theirs or something that that moved to Ontario
and brought I guess Yeah, I wonder I wonder if his son moved out there because his son took over
the company eventually. Yeah, he's gonna runs it now. Yeah, yeah. And again, this wasn't anybody
that I knew it was sure. That was the story that was brought to me. And like I said, the strain
was a really unique strain, but it's super fast. And I was like, fucking we need it was going to
be a breeding staple for us until we grew it out. And we're just like, yeah, this plant is
fucked up looking kind of shit. It did you weird shit. Did you like c 99 at all since you were
looking for plants that were fast? hazy? I'm growing I have a c 99 right now. I came from
this guy tank out of Toronto area. I did go I'd have to look at my notes.
It just tends to be one of those ones. It's fast. It didn't stand out as the you know, 45 day.
It was it might have been like a 55 day. A lot of the stuff we do is like 56 day kind of stuff.
Because we had 50 lights and I needed to produce I needed things to grow
and finish all around the same time. Yeah. And we did we did do the Cindy 99 it did have a
a following. Yeah, we wanted it we did. We did want to bring it in incorporated
photographer that you couldn't remember. Yeah, Andre Grossman. Yeah. Somebody commented. Yeah.
I thought it was gonna be my brain. I think did I put that in the notes and I sent you notes. I was
like, Oh, you have to bring it. Yeah. But yeah, Andre Grossman. Fuck. I love that guy. He was a
phenomenal fucking phenomenal him and there was another photographer to answer called himself
the yop. He did like the first really micro tri chrome photography. Okay. And he yeah,
he shot through a microphone, a microscope. And he did some pretty interesting photography. He's
like one of the he was the first I think that did micro photography on cannabis. But Grossman
really nice guy. Super talented for he's the one that shot Kyle special blend poster. Yeah.
You know, and I lost track of him. I should try to find him. I know. I'd like to talk to him.
Last time I spoke to him, I believe was right after 911. And I call him. I was trying to find
him in more of a panic because being a photographer myself, if he was in the city,
he would be the type of guy that's running towards the fucking buildings. Yeah. Before
they came down kind of thing. So I was kind of concerned about the about that. But anyway,
yeah, we did a few. I would say shoots together because he was well, well more established
than I was. But he did help me because I would I would find out through him what he was getting
paid. And I was like, well, like if you're going to use the centerfold for me, I want to get paid
the same or close kind of shit, right? Yeah. Well, back then, like you did. Did you do school
for photography? Yeah, yeah, I started the three year program here in London. Okay. So like,
you were like early, early cannabis photographer, right? How many photographers were around back
then? Yeah, there wasn't very many of us like, did you ever meet? I was Andre and I both were
listed as contributing photographers in the inside cover. Right. But he ended up getting lots of
a lot more centerfolds, covers and stuff like that. And, and yeah, I don't I think he might
want to school I'm actually I just met with Fanshawe and we're gonna I'm going to put together
a scholarship in my name, ironically, for the program, because I want to
I want, you know, kids to know that you don't have to be a fucking portrait shit photographer,
you know, you can be a pot photographer and still make good and kind of, you know, even though I
went to jail for it and shit like that, I think make story for a scholarship. But like, yeah,
well, in the last episode, you mentioned, like, when you were at the border, you had 10,000
negatives, like 10,000. That's a lot of photos, man. Oh, dude, I had boxes and I just found
a bot. I'd love to have you scan some of these. Did you ever thought about doing a book?
Now? Now there's people that you keep track of the strains in these pictures. Like, did you write
on it? What strain? What I used to do is I would take a picture of the plant. And then I take a
piece of paper and I'd write what the strain was and put it in the picture. And then I would do a
shoot of that train. Yeah, most often and full plant shots and stuff like that. And then if I
liked it enough for and I thought high times would like it, I would shoot it on a positive on a slide.
Yeah, because we had better color saturation and it was better for them to. And then a lot of the
times I would bring out my old super eight video camera and videotape what I was doing in the
garden just so I would have reference because I was doing it for information for myself on
different genetics as well as for for high times and for future, you know. I mean, that's going to
be super important. Like, I don't know if you understand that, but because because so much has
changed and so many things have been renamed over the years, it was a really prime time during
those years to get point like when you say like point of origin for like land race stuff. This is
like point of origin for a lot of these strains, like in their natural habitat, like getting
pictures of, let's say Romulan in Canada during this era. That's very special. And we don't have
a lot of pictures like that anymore. When I was up to the shrink old biker Bob, which was a big.
Yeah, I've heard of that.
Out in California and BC for a while there. Who else said that? No, I did this shoot
with high times in mind. I think Red set it up.
Well, maybe Mark. No, I don't think Mark set up. Somebody set it up. But like it was up in
north of Whistler and I used to blindfold myself on all these photo shoots. I wouldn't go to a photo
shoot, especially if I didn't know the people. Yeah. When blindfolded.
I would never be blamed for anything. Yeah. I would just wear sunglasses and I would take
the inside of sunglasses. Even if they said I didn't have to do that. They're like, dude,
we know who you don't want to pop up on that radar ever. It's like, you know what, dude,
you have a list of on that list is everybody that knows about your garden. Yep. I don't want to be
on that fucking list. If something goes south, I don't want to be on that list. Kind of smart.
And we ended up in some really fucked up back shit area countries, you know, good old boys,
million dollar fucking grows. I'm sure when I was working in the interior, we ended up going to wine
and definitely A.J. or something like that. But super nice fucking guy. And ironically,
his blue is fucking transformer on the pole when I was there. Sparks flying everywhere,
fucking all the lights going off his entire fucking crew is for I met this guy this day.
It's when I was working on that greenhouse and his entire fucking crew fucking bailed.
Everybody fucking ran because they knew fucking hydro is coming. Right. Like, oh, yeah,
fucking transport, you know, it's on fire kind of shit. And I'm so used to being the guy that,
you know, back in the nation days, I'm the one that had the pickup truck with the topper on it
that could fit all the pot plants and everything in the back. Yeah. Yeah. Not scared of the fucking
cops. I mean, I think I can outrun a lot of the cops, especially. Yeah. Well, I was just like,
fucking what are we doing? What do you like? Yeah. We need to grab. Let's go. You know,
and he was like, we need to take this down. We need to shut this door. We need to screw this.
We need to do this. And I was just like, fucking right. We were there for a couple hours,
maybe before the hydro people showed up. You know, it was all I think I think he put up his
own fucking transformer on a pole or something and and it blew their transformer or something.
So he was down like, he was born. But, you know, we were just like, we're here to fucking help.
I was like, I don't want to know where your fucking garden is. I you know, so I'm blindfolded
when I get here. I'm blindfolded when I leave. But while I'm here, I'm your fucking best friend.
Kind of. Yeah, I'll do whatever it fucking takes. But yeah, I ended up I ended up always,
you know, even at that garden, I don't remember what the strains were, because I think
one, I was a little worried, because I didn't know what I was walking into on this one.
Yeah, a friend of a friend kind of thing. And when I got there, you could tell it was definitely
organized guys on two wheels. Yeah, I don't want but the biker Bob, you know, most of the guys
that are riding the biker Bob's road bikes. Yeah, yeah, makes sense. I'm just gonna turn on the
light so you can see me better. But yeah, yeah. Did you bring your seed case with you?
I I didn't. So I want to start going through it. I didn't start going through it.
Like sitting on my desk downstairs. Because I actually want to go through it all. Yeah,
I want to I want to go through it on the video with you. So we could just so it'd be easier,
I guess. I don't know. Just do a whole session on that. Yeah, just do it. Yeah, we have to find
a lot of the seeds I have are just like, seeds that came to me with a story. That's the best,
but that's the best part, right? Like, that's what people want to hear is the story. So that's
these, these seeds can evoke a lot of these stories that you probably didn't even remember
that you had about certain strains. Yeah, but again, like the Elmwood, I've no reason to know
what the fuck the Elmwood is, right? Like the Elmwood is a strain that was super popular in
certain circles in southwestern Ontario for outdoor, right? But after this people are going
to be chasing it. Guaranteed people are going to be trying to find it. I'll have a shitload of
those seeds. I'll send it. And that's something else like I was saying is, yeah, but see, that's
the same thing. Like now, you know, would would I'm going to call him Double D because I don't
know. That's in Canada. I used to work for him. He's out on the East coast, obviously. But
if he would know about that box story, yeah, I mean, Ed would know about it. But
I don't know too many people that want to talk to Ed. Yeah.
But you're referring to Rosenthal, right? Yeah. Someone in the thing was like, no,
he's referring to Ed Borg. I was like, no, he's referring to Rosenthal. No,
no, he's referring to Borg. Yeah. So, yeah, just because, again, that's what he told
Mr. Hemp and Steve when when he was working in Switzerland with those guys. Yeah. So, you know,
again, everything that we talk about is and I was just reading something today about the natives,
a native saying where, you know, people like you, we want to remember our purpose on this planet is
to remember our legacy or something. And it should be to continue our story kind of thing. And
everything that we, you know, like we're discussing here, as we said earlier, was this is what I was
told. And a lot of this shit's just not written down. It's not and it's not going to be written
down for obvious reasons. So that's why, you know, when I get to meet guys like you, I'm saying,
well, if you know somebody that knows somebody, this is what I heard. Yeah. And they might say,
yeah, there's no way that happened. And then say, OK, well, at least I know now. Yeah.
Well, that's kind of the purpose of this podcast is that a lot of the history is oral,
like a lot of history is like verbally passed on, you know, and it always was the native shit down.
You know, we had some carvings in the in the on the walls in the caves, you know, and on stretched
out leather. But no, we have a everything is around the campfire and tell stories and
paint that to the young ones. And, you know, when I was at Rainbow Gatherings, you know,
the Granola Funk was a camp that we were staying with and their contribution was
building a stage. Luckily, the one I went to, I was able to help build a stage so the elders
could come and tell stories about earlier years of the rainbow and the history of the
rainbow gathering. And I was like, well, fuck, you know, we need that. And that's what this is.
What I feel this is, is for the for the cannabis industry, for the seeds is, you know, a lot of
this shit. This is this is what I've been told. This is what I hear. And if we can find people to,
like I say, with the Triple S C Golden Boy story, you know, is that, you know, was somebody pulling
my leg? Was somebody who's that told me this did believe it because somebody told them that?
I'm still tempted to go. He's like the one person that I knew that was worked with Neville,
helped Neville get the castle. I wasn't sure about using names. Yeah, yeah. OK. Yeah. I think that
I think he'd be he would at least know something, I would think. Yeah. So and like I said,
that what the story was is, you know, there was somebody Neville was supposed to sell a
bunch of genetics to somebody never came through. He threw him in the back of a freezer when he was
pulling out of, I believe, Amsterdam. He came across them. He passed them on to Ed, supposedly
for like an outstanding debt or something like that, or maybe just because he had them. And they
ended up with Steve in Switzerland. Yeah. And whatever happened to the fast beer and all that
stuff? Yeah. The fast beer, the fast fatty, the night queen. Are they still alive? No. Yeah. But
the Ortega, which was one of them, is in the Louis. Yeah. I don't they didn't really like it.
So before they didn't like any of the strains that I liked, like the fast beer and the night
night queen, because they were sativas. And Steve and Red and those guys were all big Indica fans.
So they love the Ortega, you know, which I could remember some of the other things I'll
have to kind of go through. I have a thank you for joining us on this journey. We are forever
thankful that enough people watch us to keep us going. With that in mind, you can show your
support for the show by liking, subscribing and sharing the show. We don't advertise, so we need
you. Also hit riot seeds dot com and syndicate tier dot com to show more support for the show.
Kick over the statues and bring it back to the farmers.
