Oh shit, I forgot my intro music.
Fuck.
I totally forgot it right now.
Dicking around.
See what happens when you dick around?
You don't get intro music.
I was gonna use Blowfly today too.
Rap Dirty!
I'll just sing it myself then.
What's up everyone?
How's it going?
I got a new, um, I don't know if it's gonna be clearer or better sound or anything, but
I got a, uh, a new, yeah, you like this?
You like this shit?
I got a new phone in today so hopefully this will be even better than it has been.
But we'll see.
We'll see.
Um, just been non-stop craziness till Friday.
The landlord shit.
Always some shit.
Uh, today, some forbidden fruit actually.
Some forbidden fruit.
It's uh, it's light.
Light, but I like light stuff so it doesn't bother me.
I had a lot to do so I need a light.
So what's the topic today guys?
What's the topic gonna be?
Damn, this is so, this phone is so much bigger and clearer and everything in between.
Is it clearer today for you guys?
By any chance?
Is the audio any better?
Any, anything any different?
Anybody notice?
Sunlight supply sold out of what?
Yeah, so the camera helps.
Boom, iPhone 8 Plus!
I can see every single pore on my fucking head.
Nice.
Nice.
I didn't do an announcement today about coming on at this time but I'm really gonna try to
make it a, uh, I'm gonna try to make it 6pm normally on PST and if I don't show up at
then maybe I'll make an announcement if it's later but usually 6.
You wanna try it at 6.
Alright.
Big pimple on my cheek.
Shit, you can see all my hair's out of place.
See how fat my head really is?
Yeah, I hit the lotto.
What's up Big T?
8 Plus by the way.
Not just 8, 8 Plus.
No it's just like dude, my texting sucks on the smaller iPhones and this is uh, this is
way better.
Way better.
Easier to do.
So I got some new information I thought was kind of funny.
And I, you know, I don't watch a lot of reality TV or anything like VH1 shit.
I haven't for many, like a long, long time.
But I got my friend Brian Ellis.
What's up Mosca?
My friend Brian Ellis hit me up.
He's the guy that I did the LSD with.
LSD, not LSD.
LSD the line.
He was the guy who, that was part of a collab.
He got to pick everything out, what he wanted to cross, etc.
An amazing musician, someone I respect.
So uh, yeah.
So we did that together.
He hit me up yesterday.
He's like, hey man, my buddy Chance from, I guess he's the, the Stallionaires.
The rap group the Stallionaires.
And I guess he was on that show Real and Chance on VH1.
Which I mean, that was news to me.
I'm not, I'm not hip to that stuff.
But yeah, so he wants his own strain now.
Apparently Weedmaps, this is, this, you know what, as a matter of fact, let's talk about
this.
Here's a good topic.
Let me fix my hair first though, because that's getting on my nerves.
So apparently Weedmaps has been hitting up people, telling them like, um, who was it?
No, I don't, I don't show my room in any feeds.
I don't like dealing in, uh, making myself any more of a target than I already am.
But Weedmaps has been hitting up people all over, uh, different, different companies and
telling them that they want to go ahead and, and make them a strain.
And I have a feeling they're going to do what Snoop Dogg did.
You know, try to get, get some outdoor booth and, uh, pass it off, you know, just like
relabel it as, um, why would I, why would I be a target?
That's a good question.
Yeah.
Chance is really nice.
I talked to him.
He was, he was a super nice guy.
Super, super nice guy.
But yeah, I guess Weedmaps is trying to get these dudes to, to fucking sign up for, for
releasing a strain with them and just going to slap their fucking label on some booth
and sell it and move it.
They're not even making strains.
They're just going to pass strains off, man.
And, and that's a bummer.
One of them, you know, was fucked skateboards.
And I really, I would love to work with fucked skateboards, man.
I mean, I used to wear fucked shirts to school when I was a little kid in junior high, man.
Uh, I used to tell my teachers that it meant Fouché.
Like, I was like, no, it didn't say fuck.
That's Fouché.
It's a French company.
But, um, yeah, I thought that, I thought that would be cool.
But he was like, yeah, man, um, Weedmaps has been coming after me hard to do a collab.
I was like, what?
Fucking Weedmaps?
Get the fuck out of here with that.
What?
Weedmaps.
Weedmaps.
The fucking Craigslist of collectives.
Fuck Weedmaps.
I'll say that right now.
Fuck Weedmaps.
I'll never work with Weedmaps.
You guys are fucking corporate cocksuckers.
Suck a dick.
So that's all I gotta say about that.
Weedmaps, they don't need to be trying to pretend like they can do what we do.
And that's an insult that they would even be able to fucking try to pull that off.
It sucks because they also know a lot of these guys don't know anything about the weed business.
They don't know who makes what.
They don't know who's who.
They don't know any of that.
They're new to this.
So when Weedmaps hits them up, they think that's breeding, man.
And they don't know any better.
So I talked to the owner of Fucked, Eric Brunetti.
It's one of Bryn's friends.
Bryn actually set that up, which is really rad.
I think that's fucking rad.
And he's new to the business.
So I invited him to come on, watch the live feed if he has time and think about it.
But I would be stoked to do something with them.
That would be one I would be really stoked to do.
Yeah, Midsmap.
They can go suck a dick.
Fuck.
Hearing that just makes me angry.
That's the representation people have of breeders is Weedmaps.
Which is...
It makes me cross-eyed, you know?
But it is what it is, man.
It is what it is.
What else did I have to talk about?
Who else did I have to talk about?
There's some shit.
Stewing about what?
Oh.
If there are any experts in here...
Illegal alien sign from San Diego.
Oh, that's rad deck, too.
I've seen that one.
It's rad deck.
That is old.
If there's anyone that has any knowledge about Tom Hill or his father's lines, DM me.
I want to talk to you.
But just only if you're familiar with Tom Hill's dad's lines specifically.
The scientist and any of his notations.
If anybody is an expert on his lines or notations, let me know.
To falsify the true lineage of strains that they're releasing?
Every fucking day, 90% of breeders do that.
Falsify the lineage.
And there's all kinds of reasons for doing it.
Some people think that it's protecting their intellectual properties.
Yeah, Tom's dad was the chemist.
That's correct.
Some people do it because they don't have the lines they really have and they want to...
Yeah, we'll be talking tissue culture again, hopefully Friday, if everything goes all right here.
Sometimes they do it because they want to lie about strains that they don't have and they want it to sell better.
That's like 90% of people who do rename are going to do that.
90%? 90%. 90%.
No, really. It's that bad.
Some people do it on accident because they don't know how to chase down provenance.
And someone tells them they have a line and they just pass it on as...
It's bullshit, but they think it's real.
And a lot of guys make it up because they want to pretend to be breeders that they aren't.
And I think that's a good majority of them too, man.
A lot of people want to pretend to be breeders, want to pretend to have the knowledge that they don't.
And again, I challenge any of them to do what the fuck I do.
Come on here, let everyone fire questions at you about breeding, about any of this shit.
Let's see if you can really answer some fucking questions.
Let's see if you can make sense.
I challenge all of them to do it.
There's very few who will.
Karma does.
There's other people. Exotic Mike comes on here.
People who come on here usually stand up to it, but there's not very many, man.
Moska can do it. Moska can do it real well.
Not many people can.
How many land races do I think existed?
Unknown quantity.
Oh, shit.
I can't remember now. Was it the scientist or the chemist?
I can't fucking remember. I need to find out exactly what it is.
What was it? Was it the scientist? I think the chemist, right?
I want to say the chemist.
This was a guy, I want to say it was up north.
And, yeah.
You know, I've asked Canerato several times to come on live and he said he would, but he hasn't.
So hopefully, hopefully he will come on.
Yeah, the chemist.
I said scientist, I meant chemist.
It's been a long fucking day. Long day.
The chemist.
Yeah.
Fuck it, I'll just tell the story.
One of our friends bought property.
After Tom's dad passed.
And I assume, okay, this is where there's some assumptions though.
They brought property from a man who was known as the chemist.
His family, after he passed away.
When they were tearing down the drywall and stuff, they found a nice big fucking stash of seeds labelled from 1982 up till...
I can't remember what the last, the most current one was, but it was several years ago.
And they were just stuffed in the wall.
And they're all labelled, but they're labelled using whatever notations he had.
So a lot of them are like CCX whatever.
Some of them are labelled with China Creek.
Or China Creep or China Creek.
I have pictures of all of them.
So we're just trying to figure it out.
We're just trying to figure it out.
I didn't want to hit up Tom directly because he doesn't want people hitting him up, I don't think.
His name on here is not very well known.
And I don't want to bug him.
And I also don't want him to say, hey man, that's mine.
That's mine.
But I would really love to have him involved with this.
I mean, technically it's whoever bought the property because they paid for everything on it.
And if that was in the wall...
Meh.
Yeah, Crybaby's been working with me on this really hard.
And he's done some amazing research already.
Already done some amazing research.
But yeah, we want to get these figured out.
And I think the only way to do it really is going to be with Tom's help.
Like, to get it exactly right.
But there's going to be some cool shit in there.
Looks like some cool shit, right Crybaby?
He saw the pictures, so...
But yeah, a lot of notations.
The earliest one was 1982.
Yeah.
It's going to be preserved.
I don't know about released.
It's at least going to be preserved.
And that's the whole point.
It's not like banking off of Tom Hill's dad's stuff.
That's not anyone's goal at all.
But it will be preserved. Absolutely.
And I want to make sure that this is even his dad.
But what if there's another dude known as a chemist, you know?
Yeah.
I don't know, man. Tom's never been nice to me.
Tom's never been nice to me, so I can't quite say that he would be honored to help anything.
But yeah.
Yeah, exactly. Notations are very confusing.
And that's why it's one of those ones.
I was like, CC? I get DC.
I don't get CC.
CM?
You know, it's pretty weird.
What happened to that crockett?
I don't know.
I may have heard some...
I'll tell you what I know.
And what I know may not even be correct.
I was called by somebody yesterday.
And told that there may be somehow that Crockett got fired over doing something bad or incorrectly.
And I don't know who fired him.
I don't even know who would hire Crockett in the first place.
But they may have been fired.
I don't even know if it's true.
It might not even have been Crockett.
They might have been referring to someone else.
But that's why I asked like I did.
I was like, I don't know what it is.
But yeah.
Now, my buddy here.
Let's see. What do we got?
Workman just asked me a question.
And I don't want to miss it.
So I told him.
Why don't many folks read with ECSD1?
The original clone is still hard to find.
The original clone.
There's a lot of Sour D crosses.
But most of them aren't done with the clone.
My buddy Karma does amazing work with Sour D.
His headbanger is fucking top fucking notch.
If you want a good Sour line.
I'm finishing up a Sour line right now using the clone.
I think a lot of people do.
It's just trusting someone to have a legit Sour line.
You know?
But yeah, I see Sour constantly still.
They just found him with a Jelly Bean clone.
You just gotta see.
Archive has a good Sour too.
Sure.
Archive's a...
Whatever.
Yeah, he has a Sour.
It's legit.
No, Sour is not Cam's SkunkVA.
Cam91 is not the same thing.
Though according to Adam Dunn's podcast, everything is Cam91.
But no, that is not how it works.
Anything good in that HSO Amherst Sour D?
I have no idea.
I haven't seen that.
Didn't know anything about it.
Oh no, I don't even want to watch Drug Zinc.
Fuck.
Archive's a Shroomy.
So that's the Shroomy D.
Which is also known as Original Diesel.
In some circles.
Or Amish Diesel as well.
What kind of coffee am I drinking?
Aria Dan on Line Coffee from Hawaii.
I can't remember what the...
One of my friends in Hawaii sends me some kind of Kona.
It's a Peaberry from Kona that lives out on the island.
I trade him seeds for the Kona.
So it works out pretty well.
I don't mind bartering for good coffee.
I drink a lot of coffee.
But this is actually...
Starbucks Cram Cracker flavor out of a fucking Keurig.
Inbox you my number.
Okay.
What is Daywrecker?
Is it similar to Original Diesel?
It just depends on who you ask, man.
I wasn't around in the East Coast.
I'm not an East Coaster.
So I couldn't tell you what a legit Daywrecker is versus a legit Diesel.
Trusting...
There's just been so many people who've claimed XYZ is Original Diesel, etc.
What is Sprite again?
Sprite is the 10K back cross.
The 10K from Green Dot Dave that was Bodie's cut.
So it's very, very...
Lemon-Lime.
Inbox my balls.
DM me your number.
I'm not gonna send anyone my number.
Yeah, I don't...
I'm not big on passing out my phone number.
I get enough fucking fucked up calls.
Just from other people passing it out.
You see?
I'm not the most popular breeder on Earth.
I know.
I know!
It's hard to imagine that anybody could possibly dislike my ass.
But it happens.
I know.
Must be something wrong with them because I'm an amazing, special man.
Yeah.
976 EVIL.
Good 315CMH fixtures.
SolidStack for sure.
I love these ones, man.
I'm rocking them.
I'm loving them.
Like, it's too vigorous.
The growth is way too vigorous now.
It's overly vigorous.
I have too many fucking...
Too much growth too fast.
A legit Agent Orange.
Well, Agent Orange would be a legit Agent Orange, I would think.
A legit Agent Orange?
Agent Orange.
CMHs go up to 1000W now.
Correlations between frosty males and progeny.
That's one that's up for debate.
Really, I'm gonna have to say that there isn't necessarily a correlation between every frosty male and progeny.
Every single male.
Not just from a single line.
Like, not all males from a single line breed the same.
The correlation cannot be...
There's too many variables to answer that question.
And you would never know until you outcross it and see.
And that's the best answer I can give you.
Outcross it, run the lines.
It's just...
There's no correlation between frosty males and frosty progeny that is 100% of the time.
There may even be a correlation between frosty males and female dominance.
But again, not 100% of the time.
So it's really hard to answer that question with so many variables at play.
You might have a frosty male and a female that is...
Not so resinous.
And actually male co-dominant, I want to say.
Or male dominant.
Even though it's expressing as female.
And it would completely X out any kind of female dominance in the progeny.
And either tilt it back to male dominance even.
Or discount it both and go straight down the middle.
There's so much to that.
And I am a frosty male.
Did you see Scott's Miracle Growers?
Dude, that was only a matter of time before they bought Sunlight Supply.
The biggest suppliers.
What do you look for in progeny when breeding with OG?
It just depends on the project, man.
I don't just chuck pollen and see what happens.
Do you think breeders ever load their packs with fem and claim they're regs?
I had three separate packs from Gromer turn out to have 28 females and 2 males labelled regular seeds.
I don't think any breeder would make a reverse line and stuff it in regular packs knowingly.
Unless... I mean...
Would intentionally make a reverse line and stuff it in packs like that.
Because it costs a shitload more to make a reverse line.
Not only in electricity but in space, time, amount of pollen, you don't get as many seeds, etc.
But if someone accidentally hermed their plants and sold those seeds it would still have a female dominance.
With a high probability of hermaphroditism in most environments.
Easy stress response.
In that case you would still see a high female dominance but also a high herm dominance.
In that case I would say that would probably be the most likely candidate.
I mean I don't know if that's what happened with him at all.
I wouldn't claim to know.
But in that situation that's what you get.
If you were to open pollinate the butters I'd have a whole lot of variants of the babies.
And most of which you would have already seen or worked throughout the years.
The Riteberry and the Afghani. Correct? Correct.
Ow, makes everything too dark.
It's getting hard to read today.
Been up for too long today.
I do like Gromer. Gromer's a nice guy.
And I've seen a lot of good stuff from his plants.
I don't know if it's Mendel Breath crosses but if it's good it's good.
Where do you think the peanut nose in P91 comes from?
That's a hard question.
I'm going to have to say it's whatever skunk or Afghani based skunk that they used.
That would be my guess.
Who would I be interested in?
Any info on compound genetics?
Yeah, good guys. They have a lot of really good cuts.
And they're doing some heavy seed making projects as opposed to breeding projects.
But there's some absolutely stellar progeny in those as well.
Nope, never had the dumpster, never worked with it.
The name just turned me off.
It's kind of like that chemo.
I've had it, never worked with it.
It was just the name man. It was a big turn off.
It was a big turn off.
I felt like if I smoked chemo all my hair would fall out and I'd just be all weak and withered.
That's one of those things.
Dr. Candyman.
Lloyd, yeah dude.
Dr. Candyman had some...
And he declared himself the king pollen chucker.
But you know what?
He had some badass shit back in the day.
Badass shit.
He was an excellent strain collector.
And he was doing better work than a lot of breeders who were trying to do selections.
And I think that happens a lot when people know good weed.
And they're good at selecting a male.
And you can still get some excellent progeny that way.
I can think of a ton of instances of people out...
How would I put this?
Making better progeny than breeders who call themselves breeders doing selections.
It happens a lot.
And in that case, Lloyd was doing that back in the day.
He had some fucking rad shit.
I would say he had as much rad shit as Elite Genetics did back in the day.
Not to be confused with Elite Cannabis.
Elite Genetics.
Yeah, he was killing it.
And not as well known.
But god damn he did some cool shit.
Plus, he's a fucking black guy who's a satanist.
I love that. How punk rock is that shit?
I just got in some compound the other day.
What was it?
It looks good. It's a Jet Fuel Gelato cross.
I had the Jet Fuel Gelato S1s going.
It was different. It was White Sherb, I think.
Jet Fuel Gelato.
Looking forward to that.
It sounds fucking cool.
P91 cross to the butter.
No, I don't have the P91 cut anymore.
I would have to select from the S1s.
And I have so many other projects going out.
Probably not going to rework any P91.
Barbara Bush is dead.
Awwww.
Aren't we sad?
A fucking Bush is dead.
A lot of fucking snakes came out of that crotch.
Let me tell you what.
I can't wait to see him compound.
Did some fucking cool shit with that Jet Fuel Gelato, dude.
And you guys show off all the progeny.
You don't just push it out there and not run it.
And not test it.
It's solid.
And we're all seeing the results.
It's fucking special.
I can dig it.
Fuck that.
Fuck the Bush family.
Fuck the Cheneys.
Couldn't have died sooner.
Alistair Crowley is my hero.
Yeah, I'm stoked to see what's in the Jet Fuel Gelato S1s.
Definitely.
It's making its mark.
They're making their mark.
Tearing shit up.
Yeah, I'm not a fan of any of that.
I know.
I know what I was going to talk about.
Let's talk about Subcool's new secretary.
Let's talk about her.
Did anybody see this shit?
I saw it.
I don't even follow the motherfucker and I still saw it.
That's how quickly that made it around.
She's this raggedy...
Hold on.
I'm not going to insult her like that.
I don't know her.
She's obviously mentally deficient to be rolling with Subcool.
I shouldn't make fun of her.
I'm not going to be mean.
Not going to be mean.
She does dress like a prostitute.
That's not being mean.
That's just how she dresses.
Her hair looks like she stuck her fingers in a light socket.
I'm not going to talk about her face.
I'm not going to talk about her face.
I'm not going to talk about her face.
I'm not going to talk about her face.
I'm not going to talk about her face.
I'm not going to talk about her face because that's too mean.
But let's just say...
Let's just say...
Let's just say...
She...
I'm not going to say that either.
I'm having a hard time with this one guys.
Bitch is the face of meth.
Faces of meth is happening.
Yes.
Thank you Brynn.
Um...
Hmm...
And I mean if you look at Subcool...
You know that anyone under the age of 25...
You know that anyone under the age of 25...
That's fucking that thing...
Is hard up for meth.
Is hard up for meth.
Let's be real.
They're hard up for meth.
And he is supplying it.
He's supplying it.
But man...
She was stoked to be on his page.
Some chicks will do anything for attention though man.
She looked like a meth mime.
She looked like a meth mime.
She looked like a meth.
He's very meth-y.
Any age.
Ha ha ha.
Oh...
Bitch is ugly.
But whatever.
You know. To each their own.
We all see something beautiful.
And something other people don't.
Right?
Not usually. Not for real.
She's special. Special case.
But yeah. I just...
I saw that and I was fucking dying.
I was fucking dying.
About him. One. Him bragging about her being his...
Secretary or whatever.
Oh. Administrative assistant or assistant.
Oh. Administrative assistant or assistant.
Um...
And two. Her bragging about being...
His executive assistant or whatever it's called.
His executive assistant or whatever it's called.
Whatever they're calling that...
Personality.
But what would be even more funny...
And he was making it look like they are.
So yeah.
I don't know.
I thought that shit was funny.
So I highly recommend going on...
Subcool420's page today.
Here's some free advertisement, Subcool.
And um...
Check out his chick.
And leave him a note.
Let him know what you think.
Ha ha ha.
Oh. He should never have fucked with me.
He. Should. Never. Fucked. With. Me.
He. Should. Never. Have. Fucked. With. Me.
All those years ago.
And picked a fight.
Let me tell you what.
Cause the shit switched up now, buddy.
The shit switched up.
I mean I had...
High Times tell me I'd never make it without them.
I had The Attitude tell me I'd never make it without them.
Subcool told me he would...
Crush me.
So I could never do...
Business in this fucking business.
I'd never make my name in this...
in this business because of him and ain't fucking time grand right ain't
time grand because eventually you bullshit enough people long enough that
shit's gonna come back on you it's gonna come back on you and I haven't changed
who I am at all I'm not even a little bit I'm probably a lot worse of a
fucking pain in the ass than I ever was Oh 420 promos oh yeah thank you for
reminding me 420 promos starting tomorrow up till 420 so it's starting on
418 35% off all riot seeds that doesn't include the spray and it doesn't include
smell boat you know I can't lower the price on his seeds if I wanted to and
the spray is already not not a huge margin so but the seeds 35% off voila I
hope that helps you know I mean it's a big over a third off I know some of the
shit's expensive there's not a lot of it but it's it's fo 20 got do something
right and let's see what can I what can I do to boost that how about every pack
comes with a free pack of let's say strawberry roadkill and or what would
you guys would prefer what would you guys prefer I said 35% off starting for
18 as of midnight would you guys rather have strawberry switchblade and I'm
trying to think what I should do for the freebies I'm just thinking of what I
haven't stopped lemon diesel I've already given a bunch of those out and I
don't have a lot left of lemon diesel I'd be giving those out fuck you on the
key lime pie hmm deep chunk banana that's one of my favorites and nobody's
buying it nobody's growing it so let's do deep chunk banana let's do deep chunk
banana how about a free pack of the deep chunk banana with every purchase every
purchase over $100 though gotta make it worth it gotta make it worth it I don't
want people buying shit end up being $50 with 35% off and then wanting some
fucking $150 freebie so let's do deep chunk banana and 35% off over $100 how
does that sound and how about if you spend $200 or more free pack of
strawberry switchblade and deep chunk banana huh huh so that way if you spend
$200 there's a bigger incentive you get you get at least I don't know how much
that adds up to but it's over $200 in freebies so I'll set that up tonight on
the coupon code coupon codes gonna be 420 666 so write that down like this
420 666 that's gonna be the coupon code on my website riot seeds calm or riot
seeds dot NL I'm like the Oprah seed everybody gets a deep chunk and that's
the coupon code 420 666 add them to your cart when you're checking out put that
in it'll throw in the discount it'll add the seeds in for you and BAM done
who's Pacific Coast oh I wish I could give autograph vagina mass to everyone
what's my best strain not for breeders oh just depends on what you like man
depends on your personal preference like when people ask me like what's my best
strain when I get those emails I say the first response I give is thank you
shaggy yes that that's close enough when people ask me that I like to say
let me name some strains that you do like maybe some strains that you do like
that you like to smoke and when they tell me that then I can make a basis off
of how certain strains treat their their brain chemistry you know Thank You
Redwood thank you Pacific ah let's see did I do the giveaway from last night
yet no I always leave that up to Bryn whenever she finally does the drawing
we'll know who won meth head slut I guess that's next after coke head slut
because there is a little bit of a variance right usually coke head sluts
are rich rich girls or girls from better off situations that that go on
bad coke runs and end up sucking everyone's dick and fucking dudes for
coke right but meth head sluts usually are already white trash and they get
into it and they never had a chance so that's usually how it goes usually you
do coke head sluts don't dip down to meth they just stay on coke or crack but
meth head sluts that they're already on meth they're fucked anyways call it
administrative assistant there you go fuck yeah can you flower under CMH 3
feet yeah yeah of course meth breath lines of years go with what type of
height I miss something here one of sucks everyone is a fucking shitty
shitty line I'm not lying that's a shitty line a lot of people were conned
into thinking carowana was this fucking crazy potent plant it sucks man shit
sucks ass all of all of the strawberry lines extract very well all of them all
of them yes 420 666 written like that Friesland Indica see I say it's boof but
my friend up in Canada loves it Trek Inspector loves the fucking Friesland
but it's just not my thing a lot of it got passed down here from Canada and it
was Canadian Beasters strongest highest yield oh lord like just like all the
other questions people are asking depends on how you grow depends on your
body chemistry what is potent to you might not be potent to me what's put to
me might not be putting to use that's a really hard one as far as biggest
yielding a lot of the strawberry cream baselines are good yielders however
depends on how you grow man I don't like telling people you get big yields if
they suck at growing you know and at the same time I don't like telling they're
gonna get quality if they suck at growing and make everything beastie
yields the last thing you should be worrying about is yields first thing you
should be worried about is quality I still have some of the old Oh Guana
Kush from Motor Rebel the OG Kush heroin I have the original seeds of that I
wasn't a fan man wasn't a fan it's not my thing I don't like that leathery
smell of heroin it was not appealing to me yeah not my thing oh so the next the
next if you're getting two to three pounds of light I mean I it depends on
your growing style again but I can pull that with Blue Dream and it's just still
wouldn't be that great of quality just because you're pushing it so hard you
should never push a strain you should never use bloom boosters if you want
quality because you're you're redirecting the energy of the plant I
have not smelled the hairy it smells like peanuts absolutely I sure haven't
what strain of mine will break a carbon filter afghani heirloom skunk spray can
any of those are fucking stinky as fuck man quality over quantity any day any day
of the week and I don't think most people will ever understand that see and
and Motor Rebel pushed out heroin for a long time he based it off of Chris
Woodhorse's line however I don't think it was I think he crossed something in
if I remember correctly if I remember correctly he crossed something different
in and it came out completely different whereas the original heroin from Steve
Tuck Woodhorse that that line was more of an Afghani base and Motor Rebels is
just like very narrow leaf it's not anything reminiscent of the original
here I want a jack-33 it sounds like a sandy line is there any negative side
effects to reversing a plant outside
not really other than I don't outdoor breeding is not ideal anywhere because
cross-contamination becomes a big reality when you start fucking with shit
outdoors always because you never know who's growing outdoors around you unless
you know all your neighbors and shit but I mean even then pollen could travel
over a mile so that's that's the biggest problem and seeding your neighbors
plants because they'll fucking hate you forever if they find out you did that do
you think it's possible there's still a true cut of the UBC chemo oh sure I have
a lot of early UBC chemo crosses still too but yeah I'm sure the original cuts
gotta be out there it was passed around a lot it wasn't too rare again groovy
weed in my line awesome groovy feeling it depends on your body chemistry a lot
of people like Urkel because it relaxes them and Urkel freaks me out and makes
me question everything about every decision I've ever made and hate life so
it's again it's not something that if someone like if you go in a collective
and someone tells you how this weed is gonna make you feel they're fucking
lying to you that is not how weed works and anybody who smokes any amount of weed
for any period of time should be able to figure that out pretty quick I have no
idea who Garrison Lane is don't know who Billy Kimbrough G is I don't have a wide
lexicon of of new pollen choppers I apologize I don't keep up with anything
like that and even but you know what like even with friends of mine like
someone just asked about professor P was string currently going I have no idea
what he's working on and it's not out of disrespect for him it's not that I don't
care about his lines I'm working on my own shit and it's like I just have my
head down working you know that's how it goes
how'd you got him longer you've been in the game
nice oh thank you uh as far as like breeding and selling seeds publicly it's
at 13 years now twelve and a half thirteen years I always say 13 because
it sounds cooler but it's more like 12 and a half as far as growing and shit
since I was young man since I was young I mean I used to water my dad's plants
that doesn't really count for growing because I hated doing it but it's been
on and off most of my life you know the potency and breeding potential of Neville
Hayes Neville's Hayes is a beautiful line not every Pheno is beautiful which
means that the out crosses are going to be wide and varied however if someone
were to take a Neville's line that was extremely good work it keep selecting
towards that line awesome absolutely awesome I just I'm going to be popping
some new a new sour line as we speak so after the all this bullshit goes on just
harvested some of the seeds and they look good there's a lot of potential in
the cross however you never know till you run them so those won't be available
for quite a while but yeah there's some some legit sour D crosses going on and
it might have something to do with something something Sherbie maybe I
don't know got to make lines that appeal to everyone and and you know it makes
some good shit yeah you better force him on you better force him on it takes
forever to come on last night he came on when I had like two seconds left old man
needs to come through do these glasses make me look smart I think they make me
look smarter and sexier and sexier what do I do with leftovers after I harvest
my seeds I usually throw it in the freezer and never touch it again but I
will be smashing it soon I have a lot of shit I need to go through yeah so I mean
for a while when I would be low on weed I'd smoke it just because it was good
shit it just had been seeded yeah yeah we brought that up earlier about sunlight
supply and Scott's miracle grow no real surprise there no real surprise there
the average time to bring that line public so like if let's say everything
lines up correctly let's say I did a good selection the progeny show good
favorable results that like I see shit that I like and I know other people
would like and all that shit is it a loop ahead Ben Finnegan yeah not too
terribly but I remember the first time I grew it it was it was a lot I just
wasn't as good at growing no cheese but for a line to be finished expect at
least a year year and a half and that's if everything goes everything goes right
do you think effects with taste do you think effects the taste with fertilized
buds I'm not sure what that means I'd have to reword that
smartest the new gangster very true except that I'll suck you in your
fucking mouth too I could recite cannabis genetics and I'll punch you in
your fucking face doesn't mean that I'll beat your ass but I goddamn will fucking
try damn well try I have no edit button with my mouth or my or my kicks or
punches that's just the way it is but I grew up in a fucking blue-collar town
man I think that's normal for everyone around here and it's not normal for
people in a lot of other cities it's we our town even our punk rock scene we
have a horrible reputation for being violent as a matter of fact there's a
new documentary the new documentary coming out what's it called I think it's
called bones of Brundage and they did a documentary on Bakersfield punk rock and
the violence and all the fucked up shit in our scene that's happened over the
years so yeah if you see that coming out check it out the bones of Brundage I'm
in it so of course I'm gonna push it cuz that's fucking cool but yeah it's a it's
all about the history of punk rock in Bakersfield which was funny Flying
Swordsman came on and told me that uh what did he say totally not punk rock or
some stupid shit it's like what this this fucking motherfucker posting about
Grateful Dead's records on his page is fucking talking about being not being
punk rock get the fuck out of here this shit's in my blood it just is what it is
I hope it'll be on Netflix I'm not sure but you can see it on Facebook or if you
go I know it's on it's on a lot of different things if you if you want I'll
send you a link so you can see the the trailer man it's just some of it but you
know it's it's a lot about how like during a certain era of Bakersfield the
early 2000s late 90s how everyone that was around during that era we all knew
each other because Bakersfield's not terribly it's not terribly big especially
the punk rock scene was much smaller and we all knew each other and it was kind
of about how from this small group what happened and how it all fell apart and
how we all ended up you know most of us are dead most of our friends are dead or
you'll see a lot of them that are homeless in the documentary guys that
were front men one of the guys that was a front man in one of my band he's a
fucking disaster fucking disaster now he just slurs and mumbles and grumbles and
he used to be a funny dude used to used to be punk as fuck and now he is a wipe
out you know it's a lot about that yeah not many people made it out and were
successful it was a fucking wild time it was a good time but you know I mean
everything's awesome when you're on drugs until drugs take over and you're
fucked you know you don't you don't get out of doing hard drugs untouched it'll
affect your life in some way it will absolutely affect your life in some way
I grow organic and I grow synthetic it's a hybrid style of growing and it's just
whatever works best and the most effective and I find that not being
strictly one thing or another being able to move fluid you know with what you got
and being able to move fluid based on the strain is is the best way for me to
grow I can adapt to all of it and that's that's what works best for me I see
people kick my ass and growing with organic and I've seen people kick my ass
with growing in synthetic definitely not the best but but it's all about being
fluid yep lots of heroin in the punk scene I've been through it lived it
somehow made it out the other end though I'm pretty vocal about it like I don't
care I like to be able to talk about my past when it comes to all drugs because
I know a lot of other people have been through what I've been through and in
cannabis people are so fucking judgmental so goddamn judgmental and
people should be able to talk about their experiences be able to relate with
people to and you should be able to inspire people who are going through
that shit you know what I mean you'll be able to talk you know say I made it
through this you can too that's it sounds silly and it sounds obvious but
it's not in our scene and in even though cannabis whether people ever want to I
don't know why people say it's not a drug it's a fucking drug alcohol is a
drug anything that alters your mind state is a drug you know it is what it
is I'm not saying one is worse than the other obviously some are worse than the
other but I don't think cannabis is the worst by any means but it is a drug so
for people to be so judgmental about other people and the lives they're
living or have lived when they smoke pot that's so ironic so ironic and to this
day dude like if when people want to insult me they'll call me a fucking
junkie because they know that's my past and the the quickest way to insult
someone that's ever had a really bad drug past is to call them a current
junkie and it's real easy to do that it's real easy to insult people like
that but I don't get hurt by it because I've seen the good that it's done by me
talking about my past with heroin and methadone and all that shit and I've
seen how many people pop up and you know will message me and say me too me too
I think you know so that's the only reason I bring it up that's the only
reason I talk about it because people should be able to talk about their shit
you know without feeling fucking just I don't know like without having their
reputations tarnished by everyone else
plus drugs are fucking fun right hashtag me too me too movement yeah I was a
horrible drunk when I was young at the age of 19 I had my liver fail and had to
be rushed to the hospital and whatever toxins were coming through from the
alcohol infected a lymph node my lymph system and I had to be cut open and have
my lymph nodes drained and be stuffed with gauze and pull the gauze out of
myself six feet of it twice a day for months until it finally healed and
sealed itself up so you know I've been there too do I consider myself a grower
or breeder first um a grower because you cannot be a breeder if you're not a an
excellent grower you can't yeah I still got the scar too it's right by my
fucking crotch it looks yeah it's fucked up yeah I know I you have to be a good
grower before you can advance to breeding it's just you can't you can't
see lines fully express themselves if they're not being grown correctly before
all that I'm a collector and a student of genetics and genetic history hey
can I have some water you want to see the scar no I don't know it's a little
much I don't want I don't want to fucking tarnish you shut up Matt
goddammit why do you have to be in here when I said I'm a collector Jesus
fucking Christ fuck my ass oh you know what I'll just start up one day the live
feed and it'll just be a shot of my crotch scar and that's all it'll be but
I'll make sure and shave and make it all nice for you so yeah yeah shrooms I
hate shrooms I fucking hate shrooms it hasn't been an hour yet five minutes
shrooms are too much for me I start giggling a lot at the beginning but then
it always ends up being a bad drop at the end always really depressing at the
end so yeah Jesus the same answer I've been given to all this shit man it just
depends you have to you would have to try each one see what worked better for
your chronic pain again you got to realize smoking affects your
endocannabinoid system along with all there's multi many receptors that it
that affects some of these are pain receptors some different strains even
different phenotypes of each strain affect different pain receptors
differently in everyone I didn't do G's all crossed the Afghani heirloom line I
did do G's all sour dub and G's all s1's that's crazy the bugs on the plant
yeah that would fuck me up too again which trains have a known narcotic
effect it's not known unless it happens to you because I mean again urkel has a
narcotic effect on most people on me it's not necessarily narcotic it's a bad
bad situation these glasses is hip I did not create G's all that was created by
chem dog the person not the strain the strain well the person named himself
after the strain because that's a strain however I'm not sure what came first
the chicken or the egg on that one but he created G's all and that is mass
super skunk cross to chem dog D thank you dear egg dinosaur came first trick
question cheese oh yeah there's been a few cheese holes the cheese diesels Heath
Robinson made a cheese hole and heath is a bitch and someone else made a cheese
well maybe it was a big Buddha seeds I am a 50s diner waitress thank you
Midwest yeah and there is a one minute 41 seconds so remember the guys tomorrow
starts the 420 cell on 418 there's the bird it is 420 666 coupon code for 26
6 6 35% off spend $100 get deep chunk banana spend $200 and get deep chunk
banana and I forgot the other one already I'll figure it out go back and
rewatch a video and remember exactly what it is but yeah nope I don't take
money orders good night everyone Cheers dog and bird at the same time okay
Cheers strawberry switchblade that's right spend $200 get deep chunk and
flat or deep chunk cross the platinum banana and switchblade night
