Now this is one of the hardest parts of seed cracking when you have an old seed
that is really expensive and really rare and you want to give it the best shot at
life. I don't recommend this unless you're really good at hand control and
you've had a lot of practice. As you can see the seed is sitting here in between
the scissors. Normally this would not be ideal but if you know what you're doing
you can just slightly crack the shell without damaging the embryo. The idea
here is to get water into the seed shell. That's how seedling embryos form. When
you put them into germinate is when the water enters the shell it begins the
process. However some seed shells are just too thick for water to get in and
a lot of people think this is like a dud seed. That's not necessarily the case. You may just have a thick shell. In the case of that this is what you need to do.
So you just gently take it, you hold it with your hand, you put it at the very top
top top part as far as it will sit in there of the seed because that's where you have the
best control over the scissors and gently you'll hear a sound and that means the seed has been
cracked. Now there's nothing coming out of the seed. I don't know if I can get this thing
to zoom in. There's nothing coming out of the seed. You don't see any juice or any
shit coming out of the seed or anything. Just the lightest crap of the shell. That's what you're
trying to get to here. And from there you just put it back into your wet paper
towel treated with three drops of hydrogen peroxide per every 2,000 ml of
water. Put that bitch right there. Oh my god. There we go. Right there. Right there. And she's ready to go.
Label her up and put her back. In this case this really isn't an expensive seed but it is a seed with a hard shell. It was a Canicopia's BC Roadkill. I want to see how roadkilling this Deep Chunk Cross is going to be.
Deep Chunk imparts a lot of good resin which is awesome but let's see if their roadkill is a true roadkill skunk or not. There's so many claims to that. I've never seen one in my life. Well, not since I first started smoking anyways. During my breeding life, never seen one. And there we are. That's how you do this part of the seed tutorial.
