Welcome to Breeder's Syndicate.
How's everyone doing?
Before Natsu gets here, don't forget to join the Patreon guys.
We have some cool shit going on tomorrow.
There's some fights that I'll be watching and it'll be cool.
I also have the Hawaiian Lights drop for the Patreon folks.
All the hybrids are out.
They've been out for about a week.
I'll be adding those to the non-Patreon very soon.
We got those going on.
Lots of good shit popping off.
Farm stuff too. If you checked out those Femlines, those are up right now for everyone.
There he is.
Sup?
What's up, you silly bastard?
How you doing?
I'm alright. I got allergies and my internet connection sucks today.
I apologize ahead of time for any bullshit.
It's all good. I'm still getting over the sickness that I've been having.
Mostly just in my chest and in my sinuses still.
It's fucking bad though.
Whatever I got was bad.
I don't think I'm getting sick.
I just think it's Mendo and springtime and things are blooming.
Yeah.
Everything's out and about, you know?
Yeah. It's about that time, isn't it?
It is here.
It's good.
I mean, what's funny is like a million years ago when I first came to California to see the Grateful Dead and Jerry Garcia band,
I came out here in spring, right?
Yeah.
And everything was green.
And coming from Illinois, where I'm from, where it's flat as a pancake because of the glacier, I thought it was like Ireland.
Yeah.
It was all like rolling hills and flowers and it was brutally cold where I lived and it was so nice here.
And I had no idea.
I got to like 110 and everything died in summer.
Yeah.
You know?
Yeah. Oh, I know.
Oh, I know.
Here it gets to be like 120.
So, yeah, you live in the literal frying pan.
Yeah. We live in hell.
Yeah. You live in hell.
So that's not my favorite part of California.
What?
I know.
I know, dude.
I know.
You know, I mean, I appreciate the desert, but it's not it's not my spot.
We burst Kevin McCarthy.
Come on.
You did.
You know, if you like flat and dry and very, very hot, you know, yeah.
Warm nights and good people.
Good fun.
Yeah, indeed.
So what is our topic for tonight?
As far as education goes.
As far as education goes, I thought we would chat about a couple of things.
We would talk about maybe sort of like the very late 90s, early 2000s period in the West Coast.
And because there was a whole bunch of stuff then that's pretty pertinent to now.
Yeah, it was all kind of going on.
And then I think we might talk about at some point probably will fit in because it's been a big topic amongst us this week.
Is a little bit of like authenticity.
Yeah.
And how to, you know, how to address that.
Yeah.
How do you address authenticity in these times where everybody's making money off something being authentic?
Well, yeah.
And people, you know, people have their own their own motivations, their own wants, needs and desires.
Yeah.
You know, that type of stuff.
And so, you know, because.
Some cherry pie, kush talk, cherry pie might be able to fit into that a little late.
I've kind of avoided the whole cookie thing yet.
Yeah, it's probably a couple episodes on its own and it's pretty complex.
So we probably will chat about that at some point.
But it needs that one needs some fleshing out a bit.
Yeah, I would say.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That's going to be a deep one.
Yeah, that's a deep one.
And there's a lot of people making a lot of money off it.
And there's a lot of rep on it.
So the more money and rep you have, it kind of ties into the authenticity thing we were just talking about.
Yeah.
You start talking history and it interferes with anybody's money or rep.
And all of a sudden they're extremely upset.
Yeah.
You know, I mean, I made this I made this like joking post.
I don't post much anymore on IG, but I made this joking post.
I saw this cartoon and it was like, I remember it differently in a way that fits my worldview and paints me in a positive light.
Yeah, that's for sure.
And, you know, relating to weed history, like you run into that a lot.
Yeah.
You know, you run into that a lot.
So maybe we should I don't know what do we we're getting up to 150 ish people here.
Yeah.
We like to bullshit for a couple of minutes and allow people to show up.
Yeah.
You know, yeah.
And get to a certain point before we start chatting.
So here's one.
Just what is the best blueberry?
Not so dog.
The best blueberry.
So this is another one that when I tell you what I think, people will get upset at me.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Because, you know, if you talk to second generation genetics, who is J.D., who's DJ's son or DJ, they will say the only legitimate place to get blueberry is them.
Yes.
Right.
Yeah.
But the you know, for some reason, the blue bonnet seems to throw these days at least some really potent blueberry turps.
And it's not mine.
I didn't make it.
I don't get to take credit for it, but I did use it to be transparent.
Yes, I did use it.
So I had my I mean, I'll actually a tie in.
Well, I have my own blueberry line that I created before during the time the blue bonnet was being made.
And Lone Star was kind of competition to me at the time.
And I was very egotistical about my blueberry, of course, because everybody thinks they have the best blueberry.
And I used it and it did breed true for blue traits and very beautiful blue turps and very pretty.
But it didn't have much potency or resin production to speak of.
And I think Lone Star did it better than I did.
I really do.
So, yeah, we're lucky is that it still exists.
Yes.
And you can still get it from a number of different sources.
Yes.
So we're getting there.
I think we're up to a decent time.
So we're going to start.
And these talks have kind of been we've we've been kind of moving forward.
We started in the beginning in the 90s a bit.
Now we're starting to move forward.
We actually still have like a third wave of seed banks that Matt and I want to do that we never actually dealt with.
It involves Canada and everything else.
But it starts to get a little bit more dispersed and difficult to get the accurate stuff.
So it's taken us kind of a while.
Yeah.
So there's a lot to it and there's a lot to cover.
You don't want to leave out a lot of stuff and you don't want to forget a lot of stuff.
And some stuff we do leave out and forget and have to go back and tag because it is.
So, yeah.
And that's kind of, you know, that's kind of one of the things about these talks is there are a bunch of history.
There are some there's some speculation.
There's some bullshitting.
They're trying to be conversational and tell people about the memories that people have.
They you know, we'll talk about things, but they get people bent under shape already.
So rather than talking about like the third wave of seed banks, I thought we could chat more about like what was happening on the West Coast.
Yeah.
Which is where Matt and I both live.
What was happening on the West Coast in that era and how specifically California and how that kind of like started to impact what came after.
Yeah.
Right.
So just to let everybody know, in 1996 in November, they passed the 215 Act, the Proposition 215 in California.
And that made it was the first state where you had medical.
Yeah.
Now, you know, medical was very restrictive at first and was only about four or five conditions that it applied to.
And the cops had spent their whole career just busting anyone with weed.
So they were also slow to change.
Yes, because they saw weed and they were like, fuck you, it's weed.
I'm arresting you.
And so people think that it just became legal in 1997.
It did not.
It started a slow process.
Right.
And the era we're going to talk about is sort of like the very beginning of when guerrilla started to end and that process started to really take place.
Yeah.
You know, there was the very beginning of medical in California.
So things were starting to open up.
People were starting to be less secretive.
And as we mentioned on shows before, I think it was 1999 that overgrowth started and not that long after the cannabis world started.
I don't know the years on when they started.
So, you know, after a few years, you had this network of people that were connecting via these forums.
Yeah.
And chatting and stuff like that.
And so when that ended up happening is, you know, this started a whole wave of different things.
It started, there was, you know, really the forums were the first time you could really ever trade outside your circle that you knew in person.
Yeah.
You know, right.
Yeah. I mean, even even today, I still see people, you know, in other states where they say, you know, I can't get that clone.
I live in this state and it kind of blows my mind because back then, even like we didn't all live in, like, people were getting bubble clones from Ohio, you know, that were in California.
You know what I mean?
Like, you didn't necessarily go to the state to get it.
Yeah. And I mean, you know, one of the things that's interesting about that is that, you know, there's there's different people for a lot of people.
We have a good buddy of ours that lives back in the Midwest.
And, you know, for him, the forums and I.G. and discord and stuff like that was a way for him to talk to other weed nerds.
Yeah. Right.
But for somebody like me who lives in Mendo, like everyone around me does what I do.
Yeah.
There's a personal shortage of hanging out like I'm surrounded by people like me.
So there were some people that like were, you know, really intent upon getting on there and that was their mode of communication.
Yeah. And some of us just lived in places and stayed off all that.
Yeah. You know, so like when you popped up or whatever, it doesn't really like correlate to like what you're up to.
We all lived in the shadows.
Yeah. Right.
So tying into that, I'm I'm probably in my I don't know what it is.
I'm probably in my mid 20s or so.
And I meet this guy.
I don't think it's weird to say his name.
His name was Ron.
Yeah. No. Right.
Yeah. Yeah. And Matt knows Ron.
Very well. Very well. Yeah.
And Ron was around the character and he's still around.
And he did this thing where he started throwing these harvest parties in fall.
In in my area.
And he actually threw him.
He'd rent like a big ass fucking house in Sonoma County, Healdsburg, outskirts, areas like that, like a big mansion, essentially.
Yeah. And he had like a catering company.
And so this thing would be you pay a certain amount of money and this thing would be catered and then all these heads would come.
Right. Yeah.
And so it was the first time for me that I really was around like that kind of scene, because most of those people that were there, like they knew each other from overgrower cannabis world.
Yeah. There was like groups that came with people like me and stuff like that, that like were from that area as well.
But there was a lot of people from all over.
And if people are running who Ron is, he's in CGA, North Cal Growers Association.
A lot of people associate him with like the Blue Widow cut.
That was one of his big jams.
Yeah. And he used to help people get set up.
He's always been pretty politically active.
Yeah. He's always been a lot of the fairs and a lot of various things that went on, you know, with you usually have a booth and he politically organized early.
Yeah. He got he got me my first Emerald Cup cannabis cup or a cannabis booth.
That was the first booth I ever shared in Emerald Cup was with Ron.
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. So, I mean, I, I went to this thing.
I don't know. I was 23, 24, 25, something like that.
And I went with my friends.
I got invited by a buddy of mine.
And what was neat about it is you go to this place and you walk in there like, you know, huge dining room table or whatever.
And everyone that wanted to share, you would write your name, which was usually like the handle.
Yeah. Yeah.
On the forums or whatever. You would write your name and you would put some weed in the bag or the jar.
And so the whole table is full of different kinds of weed and hash samples.
Right. Yeah.
And then it's, you know, and then it's one of those things where you hang out for two or three days and smoke a ton of weed and trade seeds with people and trade strains with people and shoot the shit.
Yeah. Right.
So I go there and I'm young and I'm hoping to meet like I am like so convinced, dude, that I'm going to meet these old timers.
Yeah. Meaning my age now.
But that's at the time, you know, I.
Oh, dirty old sog was there.
Look at that. Yeah.
Anyway, so I'm all convinced I'm going to meet all these people and they're going to there.
It's going to like unlock the key to a bunch of old school strains.
I want. Yeah.
Right. And I get there enough.
There wasn't some of that there, but there was there was so much like everything that was super popular in the very early 2000s.
Right. It was like Apollo 11, Apollo 13.
Ninety nine.
Ninety nine.
You know, White Widow hybrids, frickin SSH hybrids.
Yeah. He's telling us the best times I ever had.
They were super cool parties.
Yeah, it was. It was really cool to to see.
I mean, there's a bunch of people there who I won't mention because they don't want to be popular.
But I will tell you, that's the first place that I ever met CSI in person.
Yeah.
That's the first place that I met Shaw, who some people probably know is 707 seed bank on I.G., who did the, you know, the chem, the chem dog BX2 and a bunch of work with cat piss.
Yeah. A lot of people got Bubba Kush from him.
Yeah. You know, he's a he was a pretty big guy back then.
Yeah. He was pretty involved. Shaw, you know, people like Jason King from the can of Bible, Kyle Cushman, Jack Herrera.
You know, just a bunch of mountain men from Mendo and Humble, you know.
Yeah. You know, and then various types of people like Chip, who now has the Real Dirt podcast, I think.
Yeah. Yeah. Mendo Gold.
Yeah. But he was actually when at those parties, that was before he started Royal Gold.
He was still working on like Coco Fiber.
Then that was so long ago. Coco Fiber wasn't even a commercial product available in stores yet.
Yeah. He was planning on bringing it to to America.
He hadn't started Royal Gold, but he was planning on it.
Right. That's wild. Yeah. And so and so a lot of us, that was that was a lot of times where the where we got to put faces to names.
Yeah. You know, like I didn't even know Dirty.
I would have loved to have hung out and talked to Dirty Old Saw.
I didn't even know, you know, if I met if I know your real name, I don't know it.
So hit me up. But there was a but there was a bunch of people there.
Yeah. And so like Chip, for instance, who started Royal Gold, he he had just come back one of those years.
He had just come back from Switzerland, a tour in Switzerland. Right.
Because for people that don't know, Switzerland was like the first place in Europe to really open up to cannabis, like outdoor and greenhouse style.
And so when Amsterdam and Holland got rough, Shanti and Breeder Steve and a number of different people shifted over to Swiss.
Yeah. Right. And so Chip had gone out and visited those guys.
Right. And so he's got all these pictures on his computer of like these greenhouses full of Neville's Hayes.
Yeah. Like 10 foot tall plants direct planted in the ground.
So it was just yeah, Vic High.
It was just really neat because it was a lot of it was a lot of connected people.
It was a lot of people that were active on the forums.
It was five or six or seven years before the reversal era.
Yeah. So everything was everything was red seeds.
Yeah. Everything.
There wasn't any any. I don't even think I'd heard the term S1 outside of a book.
Yeah. I don't think so.
So everything. Yeah. Everything. Everything was hybrids, you know, and people would bring their hash, bring their seeds, bring their own personal breedings.
And it was like a way instead of mailing each other and giving out addresses and DMs and all that, it was like a super swap meet.
Yeah. Right.
And so it was really neat in that regard, because for one thing, Ron had a catering business.
So part of the money that everybody pitched in, he hired his whole team and you and he made two meals a day for three days.
That's wild. That's cool.
Yeah. You got to sit there and roll joints and smoke and shoot the shit and pull tubes and trade seeds.
And then you're fucking starving. Right.
And then like some like tuna on crisps comes by the thing, you know, and you're like, I want some of that.
And you're just so high and you start eating some of that and drink and now you feel a million times better.
And so the reason I bring that up is because while now with a lot of these events and a lot of these lives and a lot of a lot of times like putting a face to a name has become common.
Yeah. But back then it was uncommon.
Yeah. Very.
So it was like really it was really it was really like unusual and neat. You felt special.
Yeah. You know, and I mean, there was you know, there was times where I mean, I went I went there.
I think, yeah, the foods were to die for. They were really good. They were fully catered, full on meals.
They'd have snacks and hors d'oeuvres that would be get brought around finger food and stuff.
It was pretty decadent. Yeah.
You know, and then just like anything else, even if you're an experienced smoker, you start smoking eight, 10, 15 kinds of weed you don't normally smoke.
Yeah. And it's the first time you're smoking all of them.
Even a week or moderate weed will get you pretty baked.
Yeah. Eventually, if you just pull in all day nonstop. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. And so, you know, there was different things where it was like you can't hang out with everyone.
Yeah. So, you know, you make friends. Some friends I made there, you know, I kept up with really well.
Yeah. Others like CSI, I didn't catch up with again for a number of years after those.
Yeah. Because you just you're in different directions. People, you know, all that different types of stuff.
And, you know, Eddie just it was kind of just like a who's who.
Yeah. And a lot of a lot of the times those people fletch people that weren't very well known then.
Yeah. But now they're all hella well known. Yeah.
You know, and they have some of the best seed banks, you know, some of the best breeders around some of the best collections of weed around.
Yeah. You know, when I went there, I didn't have most of the stuff that I have now, but I had I had the Maui and I had the chem 91 and the super skunk and I had the super dog.
Yeah. My my buddy who doesn't like to be mentioned, you know, from Staten Island, he came a couple of years with us, you know, because we were still like right in the middle of doing that super dog project.
So, yeah, we had different phenols. We had the super scum. We had different things. We had hash that we had sifted from things and all that.
So it was just a really neat gathering in time period.
Yeah. People keep asking, like, what happened? But I think I think we did a good job of recreating a little bit of that just a few years ago.
A lot of people weren't invited, you know, because it was smaller. But I think I think that there's still an ability for our community to pull together like that and have these big events where people just get along, chill and smoke weed.
Yeah. So it was a privilege because I wasn't around for the wrong parties at all, but it was a privilege to be a part of the can illuminati parties. Those are it was fucking insane to be a fly on the wall at those events.
Yeah. I mean, they keep they do keep happening. But I will say that, like, they probably won't happen like that quite again.
No, just the simple fact that shit changes. Yeah. You know, nobody knew who CSI was then. Nobody knew who Fletcher was then. Nobody knew who I was that, you know, I mean, there was people that were known, you know, but a lot of them were we were all in our 20s or whatever, just trying to figure out, you know, various aspects of life.
Yeah. You know, and we were all learning and trading from each other and seeing what was up. And it was, you know, it was just days of and there also wasn't a bunch of money or rep involved. Yeah, it was kind of like the last era before that era started. Yeah, it was. So we were all young, innocent and dumb and, you know, and all that kind of stuff.
But less of a competitive nature, maybe. Yeah, we were all I mean, honestly, I came home with so many seeds from that event and I gave away, you know, thousands of seats. Yeah. For free. Yeah. We just traded. Yeah. Oh, you've got some sweet tooth by blockhead from Steve. You know, oh, give me 100 of those and I'll give you 100 of this and this and this and this. Okay, cool. You know, and it was like, try it out.
Yeah, it hadn't been monetized yet. No one really believed that you could make a bunch of money in America selling seeds. Yeah, I bet. Especially that era. It wasn't that it just didn't exist yet. So it was like all these heads each with everybody was happy to like if you could get people you respected to grow your beans. Oh, yeah, that was everything.
And I was like, you know, and then they hit me and they were like, dude, I found fire in your weed. Yeah. Now you're like walking around and you feel good about yourself. I read, you know, the job and, you know, and yeah. In the forum era, Caleb was white trash, redneck or inspector. Now he's CSI. Yeah.
Who's Turpugs? I've never heard of her. Oh, my gosh. So we're going to bounce around because all those different things sort of interact. So just to kind of like put a, you know, Ron's parties were where a lot of us made friendships with each other, where a lot of us met for the first time.
Yeah.
And so that's really important because all good weed still got grown and was sold. Yeah. There really hadn't been waves where it was like, get this one cut. Yeah. And this cut, you can sell all of that. That hadn't really happened yet.
I attribute a lot of that to fucking Jason King to for hyping cups up so fucking hard that era. I mean, you know, it's, it's, it's hard. I don't necessarily attribute it to him. I attribute it to the brokers.
Sure. I can't talk about other areas, but like in Mendo, let's say 0 4 0 5. If you wanted to have a 50 lighter and you wanted to sell every gram of your weed, you grew. Yeah. And you had granddaddy purple or Urkel or something along those are Mendo perps. It all went. Yeah. If you had sweet tooth by Louie, maybe not. Yeah. I mean, you probably could. I'm not saying you couldn't. Yeah. But there wasn't buyers shooting up from the Bay. Like, I got.
I got room for X amount. Find it. Yeah. Give me that sweet tooth. Yeah. You know, I mean, but you know, cause all that, all that work, I should say that like, so, and we'll talk about that at some of these things, but what were the pop, all the popular things you can think of were at that party, both as flower and hybrids and seeds.
So the white family was crossed into everything. DJ shorts, the blueberry family was crossed into tons of stuff. Brothers. Graham was crossed into a different amount of stuff. Yeah. You know, and then, you know, a bunch of classics and things like that.
Yeah. Like big high was still doing big stuff. Federation was still doing big at that time. People, I can answer that question. Someone just said, where's Jason King? He's on Maui. We'll, we'll talk about that in a minute because that was actually, well, that that'll overlap, but it really was. It really was like, you know, you hear about the legendary harvest festivals that happened in humble through Mendo small little gatherings and stuff.
That's really what it felt like to me. Yeah. It felt like being able to go to one of those types of things. And back then you really just talk shop and weed with your close group of hermit friends. Yeah. So getting to getting to go to like, and hang out with dozens of different people for three or four days and chat and chat it up.
Really set the foundations and a lot of the, a lot of the friendships and stuff for later. Yeah. It really made a big difference. I think. Friendships were forged. Their transfers were made. Their ideas of things. Yeah. For a lot, for a large part of it. And I think like when you started coming in heavy, like it was all a bunch of that stuff.
Yes. Yeah. It was still very much around. Like when I first started coming in heavy, I was looking for the blue widow clone. I was looking for this, the, the sweet thing clone. I was looking for all that shit. Yeah. You're looking for all that. And that was like, that was everywhere. I mean, that was like what everybody had in clones, what they had in flower and hash and seeds and all this different types of stuff. Yeah. You know, Kyle was there documenting it for high times. Although I don't think Ron let him actually made an article about it.
Yeah. Cause he wanted to keep it like on the down low and not fuck it up, you know? Yeah, for sure.
But, uh, but you know, it was interesting. And the reason why we're going to kind of bounce around to all this different types of stuff is that all overlaps. Yeah. Right. So, um, somebody asked about Jason King. That's a, probably a good time to chat about that a little bit. Sure. So at that time, uh, there was this guy's name's Jason King and he had this idea that I'm going to take a bunch of pictures of famous strains.
And then I'm going to write my own super opinionated blurb about each one of these things. Yeah. And he called it the cannibal. And I don't think anybody knew what he was doing at the time. Uh, would be, would matter. But what he did, which is super cool is he came out with about three cannibals. Yeah. And they sort of document this whole like late nineties through early to mid two thousands era.
Right before the clone wars where all these specific clones of Kush, Urkel, sour, all that started just dominating. And a lot of these random hybrids started to becoming hard to find. Yeah. Right. Um, so he came out with this can of Bible and I remember getting it. And, uh, one of the coolest things about the first can of Bible was that the entire first introduction, uh, is written by one of my weed heroes.
Uh, Rob Clark. Yes. Right. And Rob did Rob did this thing where he wrote this big introduction into the can of Bible, which honestly, I'm not sure anyone could have done that and given as much legitimacy to Jason King.
Yeah.
Uh, he's legendary. He's an encyclopedic knowledge. He's definitely like one of the elders of the whole marijuana thing. Yeah. You know, uh, he's made lasting contributions to cannabis. And so him writing that and what he did is he outlined which strains, which was a huge debate even back then. Yeah. Which strains went to Amsterdam as clone only.
Mm. And which strains went to Amsterdam as seed lines. Yeah. And a timeline of who gave what that was kind of brief, but who gave what over there. Yeah. And then a timeline of like all these different seed companies and what years they release different versions of things.
Yeah. That was one of my favorite. They, his chart on the, uh, released a seed companies. It was the first time I'd heard of like lowland seeds and all that shit.
You know, really the pearl stuff is him. Someone's asking that. Yeah. Pearl is all the pearl stuff is related to Rob. And so, so for a lot of us that you're trying to piece together all this shit, here's a guy in the know that knows all these various seed companies and breeders and work and all that. And, um, you know, he, he outlines this thing. Yeah. Okay. So, uh, you know, so he, so he comes out with this thing. He writes this big long thing, which is amazing.
Yeah. And then the rest of the book is a bunch of Jason's opinionated comments on different pictures of weed he's taken and what he thinks about them from all over. Right. So I get this thing and, uh, I'm super nerded out by it and I love it. Okay. Well, uh, flash a little bit. And there was this gentleman who, uh, just passed away not that long ago, but, uh, um, his name was Eddie Lep.
Yeah. Okay. And Eddie Lep had a farm in upper Lake, which is about 20 minutes from my house. Um, and he grew a bunch of weed there. Yeah. Okay. And he really blew it up. He's, he's one of the, he's one of the best, best, he was one of the early biggest flaunters of two 15. Yeah. Like I'm going to follow the law. Come get me. And so a lot of people, um, that, uh, a lot of people met there.
Yeah. Right. And so I met Jason King, uh, both there and I should, should say at some of those early Ron parties. Okay. And we became good friends. Right. Yeah. Uh, through, you know, through those connections, through hanging out at Ron's parties and then through, um, you know, he was, he was a photographer and trying to document weed and everybody back then was fascinated that Eddie Lep was willing to fill a field full of cannabis and be like, come get me.
You know? Uh, and so, you know, and, and, and so I decided to help Jason with his, with his project. Yeah. He wanted to make a second can of Bible. Yeah. Right. And I'd lived in Mendo at that point, a number of years. And Matt, as you're well aware, uh, weed was weed world was still insulated then. Yes.
Very much. So I'm going to get a bunch of pictures. Uh, you're not going to meet all the right people without an end. Yeah. Yeah. It's still kind of that way for the old school guys though. You know what I mean? Like, but nothing like hard to talk to, but nothing like it was before you couldn't even find how to contact an old guy. At least now they have like maybe an IgE page or some, some way you can track them down.
That's true. When I first got into this, I remember I tried tracking down DJ short to speak to him, you know, no dice. You had to find where he was going to be speaking and see him in person if you wanted to get ahold of him at that time.
So we'll, we'll bounce, we'll bounce around just so everybody knows. I'm going to talk about Eddie and that, and that whole era because that's pretty cool. But, um, so these things will all overlap cause they're all going on basically at the exact same time. Yeah. Ron's parties, uh, Eddie's seen it and upper Lake. Um, the stuff that I haven't talked to Canada Bible, all this stuff is all like happening and, and, and as part of the same flow, same few years. Right.
So, um, so I become friends with Jason and I decide to, um, help him with this project. Yeah. Right. Um, get him introductions to people, let him meet other people that can help him kind of navigate through Humboldt and Mendo, um, and document and all that type of stuff.
So as a result of all that, um, you know, and I should say this is that I, I, I was pretty good friends with Jason back then. I haven't, we've drifted apart. He's lived on Maui now for a long time and I don't, I don't go to Hawaii or haven't had kids. So we've kind of drifted apart. We're still on good terms. Um, he's a super opinionated guy and he used to drive some people nuts.
Very true. Very true. Like there are people that will be like that guy drives me fucking nuts. I always got along well with them. Yeah. Right. And on top of that, I was very sympathetic to what he was trying to do. Yeah. Just another weed nerd trying to fucking put the pieces together. Yeah. I, I strongly disagreed with him about certain things.
Oh, yeah. And all that, you know, and we would battle about, you know, all kinds of shit, you know? Um, but that's not, that's not any different than today with people. Um, but he was documenting and there's a lot of, there's a lot of things in there, you know, like you talk about like the bull ride, there's a lot of stuff that fell off the wayside that's documented. Yeah. You know? Um, and, uh, and so I started helping him figure out this different stuff.
Right. Uh, and, and, and, you know, and me and Eddie and some other different folks, um, started helping them put together the can of Bible. Yeah. Right. And by helping, I just mean making introductions and, and you know, can this dude with a camera come to your scene? Yeah. Cause that's kind of crazy, right? You gotta have some trust. Yeah. And I bring a dude with a fucking camera. Yeah. To your scene. Yeah. You know? Uh, and just so people get an idea of what's going on.
Yeah.
Laps property, but a separate home healed. Yeah. So I used to, like I said, I live 20 minutes. And therefore we were, so we were together all the time. And, uh, you know, at, at, like I, like I said before, about raw, about Ron's parties at the time, I was growing the super skunk. Um, the, uh, the, the chem dog 91, uh, mendo burps, uh, the black, the black Domino, the snow, the Trinity, a bunch of the super dog crosses and hybrids.
all that type of stuff and so you know I start helping them get all this stuff
photographed and and documented and you know and it was pretty neat in that
regard because you know they there's a lot of stuff that was like that's been
lost yeah but there's a ton that's in those books but there's video but
there's picture evidence and there's various aspects right and you know so if
people are interested because of that close relationship I had a bunch of
stuff that ended up in that book the I grew the dog both I was in this process
then of growing a bunch of my favorite strains completely organic and then full
of salt and then in the same room at the same time right next to each other
and then doing a bunch of blind taste tests with me and my friends and trying
to actually see yeah which is better right so I so there's there's the chem
91 is in there is both dog and chem dog yeah on both ways my Mendo perps is in
there the snow the Trinity my super dog 7 cut that I lost is in there which is a
hybrid between the myself and the guy from Staten Island made this line
basically a super skunk chem dog line the purple effects yeah which is Mendo
perps crossed with FX which is a cool story actually somebody said coral reef
that's not mine but our buddy Fletcher has been hunting for that for a super
long fucking time yeah so if anybody knows where the coral reef is hit us up
but anyway like that that that that super dog thing is is the odd connection
that me and you have where I spent years and years and years trying to figure out
who made the fucking super dog by asking around the whole chem fam all that shit
and at one point I couldn't get any fucking answers like half the half the
people would say yes it's diesel it's the same thing it's just another name
you know we made it yeah you know yeah yeah that's a be that way but I remember
before we met I remember in 2010 I made a super dog 2010 trying to recreate what
I had read about in the can of Bible because I could never fucking find it
and many many years later when we finally interacted I had realized you
were the source of the super dog and that was really interesting because it
was such a big long chase for me because of that book I I remember I mean I don't
really want to tell the story of how I lost it all but I I remember like I mean
I had it at all those Ron parties I passed it out freely to a bunch of
people I gave a bunch of super dog hybrids to Mandelbrot and it ended up
being a lot of the basis of a lot of his mails that he started using to get
started because even back then everyone had to use pollen yeah not that
everybody doesn't use pollen today but everybody had to use like males yeah
like full regular males reversals were six seven eight years away yeah then so
I didn't even we didn't even know but the only reversals anyone never heard of
is accidental herms yeah that was reversals and sometimes if people wanted
to make accidental herms they would torture their plan and road in the
station read they would beat that they would make it dry out they would make it
almost died it would fuck with its life cycle they would just yeah true it and
see can I get it to pop a bunch of pollen right yeah so any technique yeah
like I don't have like I lost the super dog I lost the purple effects but
there's write-ups in that book of it right which is pretty neat because
there's there's at least pictures of it yeah that's how it got documented and
why we still know about it yeah I should tell I should tell a funny story just
because so Jason had this girlfriend named Rebecca back then and he she was
from North Carolina and they had this strain that is semi known right now
called the mothership yeah and it was this old-ass weird sativa and Jason just
raved and raved and raved about it and so he got his girlfriend's friends to
mail it to him in in Lake County yeah all right so you're thinking today you
with all the mailing tech that people have you're thinking some like small
innocuous package or whatever yeah so this this fucking thing shows up and
it's a box that's about a foot a foot wide and a foot you know this and two
feet deep right yeah this big fucking box you know and we open it up and
inside or two motherships with a bunch of with a bunch of stuffing around them
in one gallon pots tied to stakes and they're like they're like 18 to 24
inches tall yeah so instead of the person mailing us cuts they mailed us
like one gallon pots of dirt and 18 to 24 inch tall plants yeah that box that's
all there was you open the box and it's like two plants in there yeah that's
wild but it was so unusual I think I don't think the post office was hip yet
to like weed and like especially plants in the mail sending big-ass plants in
the mail no probably yeah and there's actually in that can of Bible there's
some there's some pictures of that mothership because I was one of the
first people that grew it because I actually had running grow rooms and
there's pictures of the mothership at Eddie Leps property there's pictures of
the mothership from my greenhouses and stuff it was a really unusual plant but
but yeah it got mailed to us in the most sketch way imaginable I remember in
can of Bible if I think it was the mothership that at one point Jason King
was trying to say this has to be related to HP 13 because I've never
tasted anything like this that was one of those extreme speculations that he
was a yeah I mean I should say I mean he's my friend and everything like that
yeah you read the descriptions of like the dog and the chem dog and different
things yeah and I even wrote down like lineage and history for him mm-hmm and
then when he went to do his artistic interpretation of what he wanted to
write you read it and you're like oh that's fucked yeah oh well but that
happens all the time people talk about all this journalist quoted me
incorrectly or totally out of context or whatever else so but at least that's a
documentation and it was there yeah you know and well so one thing I'll say and
then we'll move on and we'll talk a little bit about Eddie's situation right
is that so we did that I'm gonna lose my train of thought but Jason decided to
do a can of Bible release party mm-hmm for the second can of Bible and he
decided to invite everyone that it contributed to the book with pictures
right and everyone that helped him put together and a who's who and they and he
rented out this very this very magical place which I don't know if most people
have heard of there's this place called or Springs in Mendocino County mm-hmm
and it's a natural hot springs and you know so it's got all these like cabins
in the woods and stuff and all this beautiful redwood and it's right yeah
come on huh no I'm saying yes and it's it's right next to Montgomery Woods
which has some of the tallest trees in the world right I think three out of the
five tallest redwoods are all in Mendocino County right next to this this
hot springs yeah so it's pretty magical place right so he does this thing where
he throws this three-day can of Bible release party mm-hmm right and we all
get to come and we all have our little rented cabins and whatnot it's the same
thing like one of Ron's parties essentially it's a bunch of seed
swapping and trading and all this different stuff and Eddie Leps there and
and Rob Clark's there and and you know Caleb and shot like all just all the
people I already mentioned the yeah a lot of the same people are there and a
lot of people that contributed to the book Eddie Lep his whole entourage and
all these folks right so I got to meet one of my heroes at the time who's that
I got to meet DJ short fucking a that's one of mine and I got to meet two what a
coincidence yeah so and that was that was kind of
intense because you know as we've mentioned on previous podcasts you know
if you're on a weed nerd on the forums you've got all the this is way pre
cookie too right you've got all these like you know test grows and stuff on
the forums of all these beautiful blue families hybrids yeah and blue and blue
work and you're like holy fuck yeah so you know I'm in my mid 20s or whatever
and DJ is significantly older and so you feel like you're meeting an elder yeah
and you're just starting to fuck around you know my buddy from Staten Island and
myself we've been breeding for a number of years at that point with our super
dog and different things mm-hmm but we finally felt like we were just getting
started and here's this guy that's like was released in Europe in the 90s yeah
worked with Sag Martha worked with Dutch passion had Canadian stuff had this
whole movie and everybody back then was kind of on his jock yeah wouldn't you
say oh yeah yeah everybody I mean he was kind of a famous guy that you know he's
internet famous him hempy Vic hi you know there was some really like famous
internet personalities on those early forums yeah yeah there was DJ's work was
one of them he stood out yeah yes right yeah and he was one of the first
American breeders since the breeders who first brought their stuff over to
Amsterdam like Sam and Rob and all those guys he was like the next wave of people
that got famous yeah and there wasn't that much competition either yeah people
say hempy hempy was a fucking happy had a lot of good points but man was he a
tough character as a dickhead he was a he was he was if you said something I
mean a lot of those guys like Tom Hill and stuff if you said something ignorant
they just tear your fucking head off yeah happy can't even be put in that
same category he made he'd stick as an idiot yeah he was he I mean you know I
had to deal with him too much so anyway I you know DJ is at this at this can of
Bible release party right and he shows up at the time I'm all excited but to
him it was probably like there was a bunch I was a custody right yeah so he
shows up and he's got Manila little Manila envelopes you know with just you
know 50 and 100 of all his lines yeah which I think back then was only four or
five yeah it was only a few lines at a time that he would ever sell and they
were just super expensive for the time too yeah he had blueberry and he had
huh flow and I blue velvet yeah and maybe the moonshine yeah blue moonshine
or all-time moonshine one of them yeah blue it was blue moonshine blueberry
yeah oh and blue velvet yeah those four and so CSI and I get to talking to him
you know mm-hmm and I have to say and he's still around and stuff and all that
so he's gonna be kind of irritated at me but it was my first experience with
realizing that a lot of these old-time breeders don't know that much hmm yeah I
mean I thought here I am this guy's this guy's been doing it 15 20 years
longer than me yeah you know he's made all these amazing strains everybody's
getting all these amazing hybrids out of them and he's releasing all these in
bread lines and who doesn't like the word juicy fruit tie or purple tie or
yes or that so you're all fucking pumped and then you start talking to him and
he's vague as fuck yeah it was yeah like super vague yeah he's I think that is
one thing that I have found with people that whose opinion I respect everybody
that has met DJ short including me has had the same experience except that he
and with me he just told me I don't own my own company and that was no no I'm
not gonna say he wasn't he wasn't he was open and he talked for a long time we
talked for hours over multiple days yeah he's shooting together he was super
jovial and and conversational and all that so I don't want he wasn't it wasn't
like we were talking about him he wasn't a dick yeah yeah you know but but
you know I kind of feel like having being a weed nerd myself and talking to
tons of readers yeah if there's one thing you can do you can talk in detail
about your own shit yeah you should be able to because it's your shit and it's
like you're fucking a weed nerd and you're fucking into it and it's your
passion yeah it's your passion and you and you know and you can just do that
shit off a memory you don't need and he just kept saying stuff oh I'd have to go
back and look at my notes yeah I'd have to check my notes and you know I'd ask
him like why didn't you know did you ever did you ever back cross or did you
ever use any of your original genetics again yeah and he was like no you know
he's like at the time he was like I still have thousands of seeds but
they're so old and I haven't stored them well I don't know if they pop yeah right
and so I just remember like walking away from there and just being like just I
just thought I was gonna get a wealth of information yeah and in the hours and
hours that I talked to him I don't I don't even know if I got too many tidbits
yeah no you know and then if you read his book now it's gonna sound like I'm
dissing him it is a very very rudimentary way of growing inside it is
yeah now the one thing I will say that I think is super cool about his book is he
does describe a bunch of weed that he smoked when he was younger that's my
favorite part of the book and then he also does this thing where he has this I
mean we didn't no one used the word terpenes back then but he tried to make
like an olfactory chart yeah like a smells chart and break down what smells
are related to what yeah how is it really good chart and I think it was a
fantastic chart I highly recommend it still because anything that trains you
to speak about things in language is helpful yeah yeah so I mean he was
talking about like squirrel cage fans and you know I mean that's kind of like
you know he kind of grew in trailers in Oregon and and use that use very 80s tech
and never really advanced right but be that as it may despite being very
disappointed by talking to him about things I still bought like 400 450 of
his seats yeah every line he had the velvet the moonshine the blueberry the
flow I bought you know I don't know 75 to 150 of them yeah right and I and I I
went home and I grew them all out yeah I think is the name of the book is like
cultivating exceptional cannabis or something like that yeah that's it yeah
right off the top of my head something like that it's got a really pretty flow
plant or something on the cover yeah extremely purple I think it's a flow but
some other people have said it's a blue satellite to like there's some some
discrepancies on that as well well one of the things I mean when you interviewed
chimera and red yeah you know you know one of the things that chimera is good
friends with DJ so he's not gonna say anything rude but what he did say is he
kind of basically admitted that he thought that everything that he had was
like the same line yeah and it was just different express like DJ would see an
expression within the line and he would be like oh this is its own thing it's
blue velvet yeah and if I just breathe stuff with expressions like that it's
its own thing but that's not really what was going on either because he was
crossing opposite to opposite when he was doing lime breeding working
directional which is what you don't do it was very artistic take on breeding
for the time and he and in fairness like we said before I they were writing
the book as they were going you know like these were guys just getting into
can of reading there was no books to be had you know at the time when DJ was
doing this so mad props to him for fucking doing what he did I I was able
to work at the bunch of his work that I'm stoked on I'm not as stoked on his
human work as far as human breeding but other than that you know like as far as
cannabis breeding I owe a big debt of gratitude to him I mean I'm not but I
just you know it's one of those like he that's the conundrum right is that is
the answer you see all this amazing stuff you see how it all works you get
it yourself and I grew up imagine people listening I grew out 450 seeds over the
next year yeah and you know I'd like to say I found a few keepers that I miss
yeah I didn't yeah I did I it was unbelievably beautiful a lot of it
especially pre cookie there was lavenders there was blues there was pink
there was purple there was various shades of in-between it didn't have a
lot of turps and it didn't have a very potent high most of it yeah yeah for
sure um but when I outgrossed it to different things I got way better weed
yeah than anything of the pure lines I got from him so you can imagine how
fucking excited I am right because now there's no seed bank there's no middle
man it's like I'm getting handwritten vanilla envelopes from the guy yeah the
real deal Holyfield mm-hmm oh my god am I gonna find the fire yeah here it comes
right all the shit labeling backing everything up I mean you know how it
goes when you're running hundreds of things and you want to keep track of it
what the fuck yeah you know it's it's a huge pain in the ass yeah I just
recently did that I mean people are talking about you know popping 450 seeds
in the in the chat not finding anything I just recently popped almost the same
amount of stuff from from blue lines and went through all of it and had a very
similar experience no I I will say something because there is some there is
like a an economic aspect that we don't talk about right where back then you
know most fire indoor was you know four to forty five hundred yeah a Pete yeah
so it was really easy to grow flower and have a side room or two with a couple of
lights in each for experimentation yeah you know the the rate you know a 12
lighter kid was was everything you need in life if you want yeah so the
economics were really easy to allow people to experiment and fuck around
yeah now things are super tight and it's gotten quite hard and mathematics and
economics are much more difficult right in this particular period of time yeah
but back then you know it was like that's what kept the cropping from being
boring I got a question for you this is a good question this is from the chat
but it's a good question and relevant where did that Swami guy come from was
he around when you were hanging out so I know no no no no that's weird see Swami
I did I did not I mean he's pretty recognizable character yeah you know
yeah wouldn't you wouldn't have even if you didn't become friends with them or
whatever like you wouldn't have mistaken him no I don't think so no and you know
we'll get we'll get to that I don't want to I don't want to break it up but
we'll get to that when we talk about the authenticity part in a little bit here
yeah sure as far as that goes because there's a bunch of people that one of
the things about cannabis I'll talk about super briefly is that you can just
sort of step out of the shadows yeah and then people are like I don't believe
where this person came from if I'm I'm who I am I would have known it yeah you
know so you know it's it's one of those things where there's a lot of shady
characters in cannabis and there's a lot of and there's a lot of people who make
good and bad opinions about people on the internet that you have never met and
you don't hang out with in real life yeah you know Matt and I are friends in
real life yes you know like we're real life friends we've made real love to
each other so I you know platonically from a distance you know all that but
you know it's different and you have a bunch of people who become fanboys or
girls of different people and attack whoever they want to and stuff like that
you know and it becomes difficult because they don't know their enemy and
they don't know their friend yes either yeah they know like a social media
construct of that person sure which is not the same thing no so but we'll get
to that in a bit so scrolling back you've got you've got Ron's parties
right yeah being sort of a nexus for this thing you've got you've got the
cannabis parties which were another Nexus bringing people together you know
yeah but I was I have to say I was super disappointed because I really feel like
you know if you take home 450 seeds from four different lines from a breeder and
don't find anything you really think or want to keep you know yeah that's super
disappointing yeah that it is disappointing that's a lot of money it's
all it's a lot of money I mean he gave me a good deal don't get me wrong it's
not like I paid full custody because I'm at the no he'd like to make money too
but that yeah but the the size of the room the amount of just everything that
goes into the economics are growing it's a lot of money it's a lot of time and
you know like I talked before it was like you know there's there's eight or
ten American elites of ml5 Hayes yeah I ran 60 70 ml5 Hayes and didn't find any
of those keepers yeah but other people did yeah you know so DJ was a
disappointment just in the sense that he comes from like a different generation
of weed nerd I think yeah where they're just not that deep into detail yeah you
know I mean one thing you can say about Rob Clark or Sam scum man it's whether
or not you want to believe a bunch of what they say or not they're heavy on
detail yeah a lot of the old a lot of the old guys you talk to um you know
they're light on detail yeah they don't remember or they try to make it they did
it yeah but they just don't like it's even the same thing with like the sour
stories or a lot of the stuff that happened in the 90s that we try to get
to the bottom of yeah they didn't know it was going to be important I'm pretty
sure DJ thought he was always going to be important based on having met him I'm
pretty sure he always believed he was going to be yeah I mean like I said over
that weekend I probably talked to him for five six hours seven hours yeah we're
there for three days all we were doing was like literally smoking weed and
hanging out and shooting the shit eating food dude I would have loved to have had
that opportunity with him I just it just seems so not interested in discussing
anything with me and it was it was it was hard because I did look up to him so
much and it's not that I lost respect for him but it's just like the more I
learned about breeding and hands-on the more I learned about why his lines
turned out the way they did and why I was having such a hard time working those
lines you know it all made sense in the end and I mean you know I don't I'm not
dissing him because like you're fucking around the 70s or 80s or even in the 90s
or whatever it's like you learn as you go you know you bottleneck something
when it early on and that's what you got yeah you know I'm not dissing him by any
means because there's a lot like I said there's I think his lines are overly
inbred yeah definitely over the inbred but some of the most fireweed at those
Ron parties was out crosses of blue of blue work yeah so there's nothing wrong
with having an inbred kind of unique to the cannabis scene line and it takes
some out crossing to really bring out its true character no that's kind of
what breeders would want something very stable and worked you know I don't think
that's a diss necessary now of course I wish that DJ would have repopulated his
juicy tie and his purple tie and his original lines every four or five years
and kept fresh seed of the original things yeah sure of course I do do I
wish he was interested in them and didn't just let them go to shit even
though he had them yeah well yeah I do but you know I mean everybody looks back
on when they were younger and was like boy do I wish I did this yeah yeah I
mean who doesn't have those regrets about their 20s yeah you know I don't
remember what happened in my 20s so right so shit's fucked up you know and
so so that's happening all these cannabis things are happening they're all getting
documented in that regard and Eddie Leps was another place that was kind of like
Ron's parties or the cannabis parties where people overlapped a bunch yeah
because people wanted to come out and see this guy is growing a thousand pounds in his front yard
yeah holy shit yeah he's a wild one now now it's like it sucks because you know what
happened to him is he ended up going to jail for 10 him and his wife ended up going to jail for 10
years yeah and you see gardens way bigger than his all over the place now yeah and he didn't
people should know this he didn't just go for it okay he did this crazy thing this is probably
worth mentioning where the law said you were allowed to have six plants and a 10 by 10
yeah so he mapped out his farm in 10 by 10 grids and he collected right
um you know he collected medical cards for each grid yeah and each medical card was tied to a
specific grid yeah and you could give him your strains to grow in that grid
and he would do a certain amount of work like feed it and water it and this and that but like
you could come out there and do your own de-leafing and your own various aspect of
different things like that you could put in more work yeah if you wanted to and really make your
and really make your 10 by 10 nice and then there was i don't need to get into that part of it but
there was a split between him and you yeah you know so honestly it's like he didn't just like
blow it up and go for it he literally had 10 by 10 plots with six plants per plot
tied to a medical card and he would just stack hundreds of them yeah he was just challenging
the government to challenge their own like little gray areas of the law is what he was doing pretty
punk rock i might yeah super punk rock super rebellious and he wanted to have eddie lepp
gardens all up and down the fucking the highway yeah he literally felt like most people wouldn't
be able to grow their own but why couldn't you come bring your medical card to eddie lepp's
collective yeah and grow your own fairly near your house where you could go tend to your plants on
the weekend yeah you know and what happened to him was he he had this huge plot in his front yard i'm
not going to dig them out i got some posters from him and a bunch of pictures and stuff but it's too
hard to show like on the thing um but anyway he and then the the last year he had he decided to
get seven acres across highway 20 from his house in upper lake and he was going to grow about 13
acres of cannabis yeah dead serious 32 000 plants yeah that's a lot for the time yeah uh 32 000
plants all documented right yeah all with all with and i begged him not to yeah because i was
like dude i don't think the dea i don't think i don't think they'll let you get away with it
like i'm worried like they'll come down and they'll bring the hammer down you know um yeah some
photos of that are in the can of bible 100 there's a whole thing on eddie in the can of bible actually
yeah um you know and and there's definitely pictures throughout the can of bibles that are
from eddie's spot uh you probably won't recognize them if you hadn't been there but anyway um so i
begged him not to do it uh some other friends begged him not to do it but there was other
people that thought he'd be fine and they were really pushing their boundaries yeah they were
pushing it hard um and uh you know he got raided by the dea it cost him a lot with 32 000 plants
you know and he he him and his wife got 10 year sentences yeah 10 year federal federal sentences
and the shit the the shitty thing about federal sentences is that you have to serve 85 of the
time it's not like the state where you can get off halfway for good behavior yeah and him and he was a
vietnam vet and him and his wife were older his wife passed away in prison sadly yeah um and then
he got out and uh you know the world had changed he went from being this like rebel maverick kind of
center of attention which to be honest he was kind of egotistical and yet you know he tried to form a
cannabis church and yeah you know he was fucking that's you know there's a lot a lot of characters
right so yeah um but he got out and the world had changed now there's all these motherfuckers doing
gardens his size yeah and it's all fine and you know he gave up you know um he gave up a lot for
that yeah and he got hammered pretty fucking hard and there's people there there's people that
i i mean i'll mention a few people i guess you know um one of the one of the skittles crew that
like that spun off into dying breed and that was his own person shiloh probably a bunch of people
know um i was like the second person in mendo that shiloh met yeah um him and dallas uh who's
got enough you know who he works with now um they both were working at eddie's yeah there was a bunch
of people that became kind of well known later that were kind of eddie's farm hands back then
yeah you know and we're out because it was a big deal it was a big mess it wasn't the most organized
character either so you can imagine you know he was definitely king of his hill and he spent a ton
of time entertaining and being himself you know and then you're trying to grow thousands of pounds
yeah you know uh and uh you know and but we were all young then a lot of us hadn't none of us had
really made our names anywhere you know it was all people that you know it was just it was a
smaller world yeah you know for sure um and so but eddie had a bunch of parties at his house he had a
bunch of gatherings at his house a bunch of people from spy rock and bell springs would come
down because they were shocked that he could they did big shit up there but they lived such a crazy
lifestyle um they were shocked he could do it literally like you dry can still i drive by his
house pretty often still you can see it from the highway yeah so he was yeah his old house that he
lived at for a long time um yeah and that's the house that's in the can of bible you know um and
and it was like a who's who of legalization guys uh i should i should say something else um
you know uh his last years um jack harrier moved and got a house right down the street from eddie
yeah i passed by that house too eddie uh jack harrier was at a bunch of those parties
um i have some signed books by him and stuff like that he was over there a bunch just hanging out
you know yeah um you know he had he had some health prob right there on the 20.
yep he had some health problems and some strokes and stroke issues and stuff like that so some of
his last years he was you know he kind of had like um um you know sometimes some parts of your face
don't work the greatest yeah but his mind was still there even though sometimes he struggled
to get out certain things yeah um but you know jack is another hero yeah he had a whole cannabis
cup made after him he was you know he wrote the book on the hemp possibilities yeah um you know
it was it was kind of a it was kind of a smaller world yeah but it was all those ron's parties
the can of bible parties eddie lepp's whole situation this was all sort of like a norcal
you know uh emerald triangle lake county kind of thing that was going on where a lot of people
were fighting were starting to come off their hills and and and meet people you know and it
was pretty it was it was pretty integral to what came later i think yeah you know it was a lot of us
that are our middle age now and are trying to pass down history we were looking up to people like eddie
lepp or rob clark or tom hill uh who is a cantankerous old man uh yeah yeah yeah i mean he
was a little nice i'd love to get him on here but we'll see he was a little he was a little nicer in
person but man uh if he didn't know you and you said something dumb on the internet you know uh
he was going to he was going to uh eviscerate i yeah he would eviscerate your ego he would
rip it out of your asshole and make you feel like the smallest little bitch in the world
yeah people are saying there's very weather might there's people saying oh i might have met you back
then not so it's very possible yeah you know that you met me um or i met you i mean there was a lot
of comings and goings then even at those parties at ron's parties like um it's not like i got to
meet and like made lasting relationships with everyone there yeah some of them were 20 minute
conversations some of them were hours yeah some of them were in the tight circle of people i was
hanging out with all weekend because that's how it worked some of them were on the periphery i mean
it's just kind of one of those things and none of us were none of us were anything then yeah we
were all just a bunch of young weed nerds you know yeah tom was like yeah i agree dirty old tom
tom was super nice to me but you read some of the stuff when people ask them dumb questions online
and holy fuck yeah right yeah i mean he's he was highly intelligent some people don't suffer no
no he was highly intelligent and he didn't have a lot of patience
yeah i i yeah i i can i can definitely relate to to that sometimes yeah i mean but you you see that
you see that even now like you get so burnt out by dealing with people you know um i think the
same thing happened to to sam skunkman to some degree oh yeah yeah you know uh he was probably
nicer and more chill and then you get you have to answer the same 50 questions a billion times and
you get accused of all this shit and all of a sudden you're a cantankerous old man yeah it's
very easy to fall in that category you know but those guys were all legends all heroes to us vick
tom hill hempy you know uh these were all like leaders of the scene you know um and and old
timers to us yeah you know tom's got to be i mean tom's got to be 20 years older than me
i don't know maybe maybe i don't maybe 50s you think he's only in his 50s yeah i think i think
you're pretty old actually i think you're probably older than him you're in your 60s
yeah you know it's all the oil of ole yeah you know keeps keeps me young or whatever but
the reason why i'm babbling about all this shit is it's where a lot of people because there was
essentially like there was essentially like uh what's the best way to put it maybe the best way
to put it is that in the 90s most weed scenes were very isolated to themselves to very small circles
it was very risky it was illegal everywhere no one was really chatting the grateful dead
dead tour fish tour that kind of thing there was some overlapping things because people would meet
and not be as scared because nobody knew where anybody else lived
yeah no i'm not dude i'm 45 matt's joking no he's 60 he's lying i'm 40 i'm 45 no i'm definitely not
definitely not um you know but but you know i mean and i'll say the same thing too because i
just saw uh my buddy who i was talking to earlier today uh skunk v skunk va's on the thing right
i go to ron's party and i am so hoping to meet all these legendary people and strains and shit
and i'm like just hoping to get hooked up you know and not to be a dick but like i felt like
i had the chem dog and i had the super skunk and i had the mendo i felt like i had the best weed
there yeah i was like i had weed that tore people's head off yeah you know and and uh you know
there's not to be bragging or anything like that because it was literally just the luck of the draw
and the luck of my friends yeah you know um and uh and dead tour you know was one of those things
where um it was it was sort of like a huge weed emporium yeah and it made a lot of these connections
and it made a lot of these things that i tied in and the whole reason i came out to mendocino county
um was because i had a buddy who lived in ukiah which is in the heart of mendo
um who after 215 passed was like dude get the fuck out here why are you living in chicago
yeah so it was literally connections from dead tour that like brought me out here right
so getting back to what i was saying is that in northern california and in dead shows there was a
weed scene and on the forums it developed a weed scene and in the emerald triangle there was kind
of a weed scene right and then these parties and these events and stuff was sort of like the first
mixers yeah they were the first places where these scenes started to like overlap
where the forum scene and the mendo and humboldt scenes and the grateful dead scenes and all these
different groups that have ties to different circles they start like a venn diagram they
the circles start crossing yeah and i honestly think that's set up kind of everything for the
american weed scene for later i think so i really do like none of us knew it at the time
no by any means it wasn't like we're like oh we're here for history you know it was just it but it
did it was the it was the merging of things i mean i should say even back then this was a few
years after ron's parties but like um you know i mentioned the purple effects that's in the uh
that's in the cannabis maybe i should talk about that for a second because people might be
interested in that uh the purple the purple part of purple effects is just mendo perks right yes
and the effects was this old garlic bud strain that i got from uh the head grower who worked for
tim blake yeah now tim blake now is very famous because he's the founder of emerald cup but back
then he was just a big uh gorilla outdoor indoor uh farmer yeah and his his main worker was about
my age they are the purple effects and they gave me the effects which was a super golden
gorgeous frosty terpy thing right yeah and uh you know there wasn't any reversals but how the
purple effects got made um in the cannabis is that i had a system that got a little stressed
because i had an air conditioner issue and it took me a few days to get it fixed and you know
as as csi will tell you you stress the mendo perps and the fucker will harm yeah right so the
mendo perps harmed all over the effects that was right next to it and me and a buddy got about a
thousand seats jesus 800 to 1000 i mean i was at the time we were hella pissed and the reason we
got that many was because we had like these six or seven you know quarter pound to six ounce you
know effects plants all around it that we couldn't sell yeah they're a chock full of fucking seed
but we cracked this thing and it ends up being super terpy um you know and all that and it ended
up in the can of bible was gorgeous weed um and you know i should say that there's been some
battles amongst the crew we'll talk about that too but um some of that weed exists still i don't
have it i lost it in a bus but some of that weed exists still and it's in um it's in the rose it's
it's in the sprite um it got passed around it at some of tim blake's early and you know people
should know that tim blake had this spot called area 101 in north of laytonville right yeah and
he threw a bunch of weed events up there and he threw um a bunch of like essentially like weird
raves and different kinds of like musical gatherings and and all that kind of stuff and
it was kind of like a scene and you know the first half a dozen emerald cups were all super
local events held there yeah um and so i passed out a bunch of seed there was a gentleman that
used to work up there and used to work at reggae a bunch called fuzzy um that's not his real name
but that's his nickname and uh you know and all that and stuff and so you know he ended up getting
the purple effects for me and and that's who the you know tony mendo and those guys got it from
yeah and it got blended into skittles and it got got all these different things you know and it it
lives today yeah you know uh but that was a total that was before fems that was literally an
unintentional fuck up uh where in summertime the ac went out for two days yeah and you know it got
hot and then i put a new ac in and everything was good and then the mendo p just threw through
pollen yeah and i had a and i had a feminized cross um people are asking what about california
black rose as far as i know it's the same thing same thing um yeah so what happened to them is
like a lot of cannabis terms uh rose is trademarked yep rose is a very specific kind of wine and
there's also another seed company that has a totally different line called rose as well relentless
and that's not related to i don't think it's related to the same diamond grape one but don't
quote me now that i think about i don't know but it's very different so they had to change it
uh because they got because as you as you get legal and you start entering these things and
stuff you start getting sued yeah you know girl scout cookies and thin mint is cookies because
they got fucking sued by the girl scouts yeah you know the reason why skittles has z's yeah you know
is they're trying to skate around these these trademark laws right so rose is russian og
crossed with skittles that's the z cross the purple effects that's the e and it took second
place i don't know three four years ago or whatever at the emerald so so what i got out of them and
in this this one's been i think i have a screenshot of it it was a russian kush oscosh effects
cross back to skittles is the claim yeah something like yeah yeah so it's close to that
but they had the the seeds that they had were purple effect seeds from from fuzzy that was from
me yeah because back then it was like there wasn't any i mean in this same time frame um i should say
this too but you know uh my buddy from uh me and and uh scum pha's old friend who um with the chems
and stuff we were working on these super dog projects together and crossing them to all kinds
of different hybrids and and clone only as we had um and my buddy mandel brought uh at the time who
wasn't into seeds or breeding wanted to get started with weed and i ended up giving him a bunch of
seeds and a bunch and some clones to get him started on this project and he ended up becoming
pretty well known um some of the stuff he got famous for was based off that work some of it
was a little different from different things yeah um but the the reason i brought that up
isn't to like lay claim it's to say that back then we were very free with trading things
yeah because no one ever thought that they could come out of the woodwork and lay claim to anything
yeah yeah right yeah that wasn't a worry now it's all like fuck you you can't breed with my cut my
cut that's mine that's my seed line i want matt knows this more than me because um i i've avoided
so far a lot of the weed politics by giving away a bunch of seeds for free yeah and when you sell
seeds like matt uh you end up getting you know i want half the seeds because you use my cut in this
one cross i want rep i want you to mention me i want you to give me money uh it's my shit you
don't have permission jobs i have so many blow jobs i've had to give just because of seeds it's
not fair not fair yeah and it's not you know i mean do what you love do what you love so it's
what i'm good at so yeah i mean so there you know there's an aspect of politics but this was before
that politics yeah people just swapped seeds people just swapped you know people just swapped
cuttings people swapped you know all this different stuff it wasn't like you know you didn't want your
name attached to weed yeah because then they'd fucking find you what the fuck is that yeah it's
ridiculous you know you'd be you'd get you'd get in fucking you get you'd get in trouble yeah right
you don't want anything named after you what the fuck is crazy you know yeah and then and now it
now it's come full circle it's 180 degrees and now it's like someone's like i didn't breed this cut
but i did make it famous so therefore if you're making any money off it you must give me money
the rule of the mac and it's in yeah and it's it's in my terms yeah you know i want seeds i
want money i want rep i want all three and all this different stuff but it's just like those
things i mean it's even like you know people were asking way earlier on the thing that i have to
sign a disclosure for dj yeah dj came up with all that all that this is my shit you can't do anything
with it way fucking later yeah yeah at the time there was no at the time there was no i mean people
should give credit you know i mean i just saw a homie mentioned that people should give credit
you should say that i got this from this person you know you also should um if you got a cut from
somebody um you should give it back to them if they lose it that's really good etiquette you know
um i've had multiple things that i've lost and i've tried to get back from people i i mentioned
the purple effects that's one of them it exists i can't get it back without trading other things
for it yeah which i think is uh super shady and a breach of the code at least the code when i came up
um you're definitely supposed to do that there's some honor i mean half the reason people trade
things is so you don't lose things yeah because angry girlfriend angry boyfriend bust fire landlord
moving accident whatever you know all those different types of things um you know you trade
things back amongst people you know yeah i mean one of the reasons you know i'll say this because
he's because he's listening or whatever but i mean one of the reasons why the chem 91 didn't get lost
yeah was because there was a tight group of uh you know four or five of us myself uh skunk va i
see collective my buddy from staten island who all had it and all lived in norcal and you know we all
kept it alive you know people sometimes people got in trouble some people still had to move
sometimes you had to get back from somebody or whatever and it was like we were all heavily
invested in making sure these things lived you know yeah i mean that's that's why a lot of these
cuts are still in our group you know like in our tight circle because you know we all move around
we all fucking yeah you know he said he's just saying i'll just say i'll just say this uh and
i gotta keep thinking because i keep wanting to say his name but it's gonna be yeah i like i have
a hard time bullshitting at pace and reading comments at the same time um yeah i mean he did
you know he you know um you know there were some people that lost it i mean my whole name
you know he just said that i had to give ic back the cut like five times my whole name not so dog
is because our buddy from staten island drove up to see ic collective and got a bag of dog and
brought it back and it wasn't the dog because dude was dude dude used to party and he got mixed up
and mixed up his clones and he grew a whole room of chem dog and it was like romulan or something
like that you know it really was and we had to get it to him back because he was like what do
you mean it's not it it has to be you know and i'm like no dude it's not so dog it's not it we
had to call him up and homie was all excited he's like i've never seen it look like this you know
and i was like the reason why he's never i had stuck my head in the bag because i was in the bag
i was in the car with staten island i told it before and i looked up and i'm like this is not
so dog it's not dog i don't know you're talking about you're tripping you know and why you told
you today that's crazy that's good because they you know they used to be yeah they used to be best
friends and i'm not you know there's and i should there's aspects to stories i always leave out
because they're personal and i don't think they're super pertinent yeah i'm just stoked for us because
i want to get both those motherfuckers on here at the same time with you that'd be great it would
be cool to get homie to get to come talk because a lot of the story people should know and that
people are like oh not so it wasn't there this that whatever else a lot of the stories i have
um you know come from staten island or come from skunk va talking to them 20 plus years ago yeah
before the forums before the fame before he got on and got his handle skunk va you know before the
cut was getting traded when it was just our little crew that had it yeah you know honestly like they
don't come from me they come from my memory of like what i remember about sitting around
shooting the shit and growing weed and and doing shit together yeah you know um it would be it
would be a really neat uh thing to do um both to bridge that gap between the two of them and get
them to talk back and forth you know yeah um and you know we've been trying to get dude on here for
a long time actually i'm trying to get skunk va too he's just so shy he's kind of he's kind of
prickly but i mean i him and i were him and i were you know me and um and him and and skunk va we've
all known each other a long time yeah really long time way back and so you know at certain a point
you know you bury the hatchet about different things um it's hard you know it's hard it's it's
hard being in weed and having all these like interpersonal you know you mix business and
friendship yep you know and people have different memories about shit yeah you know and all that so
uh you know it uh but yeah it's good i i spoke to uh uh right before the show actually um uh
skunk va and i were talking about uh chatting back and forth a bunch via text about some stuff and
uh we have a ray of hope on something that we maybe thought was long lost so
if if it's if it so develops i'll report back um but that's what that's what we try to do it's like
old friends trying to look out for one another yeah you only make it through this world you know
the people are much more important at the end at the end of the day than the money or the fame or
the bullshit yeah i'm i'm big into people you know i need enough money to survive you know but
i'm big into people yeah you know so um it's i like to see my friends doing good i like to see
and we've all you know all of us are like semi-autistic weed nerds in some way or whatever
you know and like you it's odd you know living alone or living by your you know living amongst
uh you know small groups of people and living weed and taking a bunch of risks and staying secret for
a long time like me showing my face is fucking nuts yeah you know and now i show up weekly
yeah you know and you know so i just i just thought it would be it would be cool because
this era is like right before kind of matt came into things yeah which is like i apologize because
i keep trying to get uh shows done where i make it like more matt's era than mine um because
there's my era like smaller then there's an era where like you know i was having a bunch of kids
and had some issues or whatever and and matt was super engaged uh when i was a little less engaged
but so far i you know i'm gonna drag him kicking and screaming into his era where it's mostly him
talking and me shutting up but he keeps making us do these things where it's it's a little older
stuff yeah i think i think it's a lot too because i've been you know doing the live feed for a long
time and i think for this many years i think people are more excited to hear from someone
else for a bit and i i'm excited to hear like from an era i wasn't a part of and i think nobody
gives a fuck to hear what i have to say about something i wasn't a part of and i don't either
so i think it's it's it's not just about my ego on this thing i think it's good to to get all
aspects of history out here and you know there's a thing too where it's like i mean we didn't know
back in the day that the chem dog was going to become super famous uh yeah it stayed alive um
because our buddy from staten island used to take it to like you could meet him outside of
any jerry show outside the warfield and probably buy a 400 ounce yeah you know um you know all that
you could uh you know um when when jerry garcia died you know um and he decided to and and you
know skunk va came back to california you know he got cuts from homie and he started he started
growing because all of a sudden he was settled down he wasn't traveling and seeing shows and
stuff and that's where some of his polaroids come from of that old skunk cut you know and you know
a small group of us were growing the dog and we were always we called it you know no one called
the chem 91 and all that that's all like later we all called it the dog yeah and you know uh skunk va
and our buddy from staten island they mostly grew organic um so they didn't want to call their weed
chem yeah they weren't going to call it the chem dog i think that picture i think that picture of
the super skunk for me at least and what i'm interested in is one of the most important
pictures that anybody could have kept that and some of the josh dog pictures um yeah those are
specifically the sour picture and or pictures of sour pictures the old super skunk super super
fucking important for solving that weird mystery of like was this super skunk cut the same as the
original super skunk cut that is hard to that was hard to figure out yeah and uh it helped a lot
i mean there's a thing too like part of the you know we don't need to go over it again
um but we'll talk about it just really briefly we were talking about like ron's parties and these and
the triangle and the dead scene and all that i mean the whole reason that the francine um got
taken out east and you know the super skunk came west and all that stuff was all because of jerry
yeah that our friend and and skunk va were at and friends of his from back east and smoking
weed together at the show and then people wanting that stuff and so i don't need to i you know i
wasn't there i don't need to tell that part it's you know that's that's he's told that story pretty
eloquently and stuff like that but it is it is showing how those circles overlapped yeah you
know and one led to the other and stuff like that you know and so you know huh let's lock in skunk
va for next week next friday skunk va will be on and he will be happy to to be performing thank
you skunk va i don't know if he said i don't know if he's we locked him in but if we did
i'm we're gonna chat again this weekend i have a i have a line on something i thought was long
lost that's dear to both of our hearts so i'm trying my damnedest to make sure i can get it
back to all of us uh yeah but we'll see you know and i do believe i'm not particularly uh uh
superstitious um yeah but i do believe in the energy of the plant and i do believe in the
universe a bit like making things come to you and i can say for everyone out there uh for me at least
the number one way that you get the cuts that you want and you get the things that you want in
cannabis is by treating the plant the right way and having the right intentions yeah that's what
i say because that that's going to a long term that's going to get the right people to trust you
yeah and that's going to lead to what you want and i do believe the plant has an energy
and i do believe the plant wants to uh wants to um you know wants to find people that'll keep it safe
i agree i really do i don't know there's not i can't prove it obviously but i believe that
there's collectors out there and the plant hides uh in places where it's hoping that someone cares
about it and isn't just monetarily attached to it yeah but loves it you know and a lot of the
things that i have um i wouldn't have because i would have gotten rid of them as soon as they
were unpopular yeah but i personally liked them and cared about them and then there's friends of
mine that feel the same way and that's why they have their shit you know yeah and so it's it's a
general theme among our friends yeah it's a theme you know and if you get it's like you get trusted
in circles and like you know maybe we can go into this there's an aspect of like authenticity
yeah we were going to talk about before right because we are kind of getting an hour and a
half into it so maybe we can talk a little bit about this and there's there's aspects of things
where now that i'm being public okay and i'm starting to tell some of these stories um i
should say that there's a lot of things that maybe like five or ten percent of the weed community
knows pretty well yeah um that becomes difficult where how do you let the other 90 percent know
yeah so there's a lot of like accepted facts among small groups of people that want to trade
this kind of information right sure and then you want to get it out there and you get fucking
attacked yeah and so you know matt can attest that he tried to get me to do this for a long
ass time and i wouldn't yeah right i mean well i mean you were just watching what happened to me
and you're like fuck that i don't want that in my life i was also like showing i mean i did i did
caleb's event up in uh up in that's right you know and it was like i showed my face i was in front of
a huge crowd yeah you know of people and i was just like oh my god you know i mean i didn't give
my real name but it's still at the time it was difficult yeah but what it comes down to is that
if what convinced me to do it is is like if you don't try to get some version of the truth out
there what you believe to be the truth and it's just going to be overwhelmed by bullshit yeah
right and there's an aspect where it's like and i really get upset about it sometimes
where there's this ig thing where people pile on each other yeah okay and you know matt's a villain
on ig yes i want to be to a lot of but to a lot of people that don't know him in real life
yeah you know and if we want to fast forward a bit before covid um matt and i there was other
friends that helped and stuff like that so i'm not trying to just to diss anyone i'm not mentioning
but matt and i and a few other friends kind of like uh got this idea to throw what we called
like the can illuminati party yeah and it was sort of kind of based on ron's old parties and
some of those old gatherings but more modern yeah and we decided to do it the same weekend as
emerald cup you know because um everybody would be in town yeah so we rented a huge house
and invited a bunch of people over on friday and saturday night of emerald cup and both years you
know we had hundreds of people come to the house yeah right and believe it or not nobody punched
matt no oddly enough nobody attacked matt there's a lot of people that you that you don't imagine
that like respect him a whole bunch yeah i don't know about that but they didn't punch me
yeah you know you have a lot of friends you know there's a lot of friends you get a bunch of
collectors and breeders and weed nerds and people in the industry that come through and want to hang
out with each other and you got to realize that like we were trying to throw an event where it's
like those guys spend all day at their fucking booth talking to customers and trying to give
their customers a little bit of one-on-one time yeah right and then at the at nighttime you know
they get to come out and hang with a bunch of people just like them yeah and trade weed amongst
people just like them and shoot the shit and you know trade cuts and talk about bullshit and do all
this various shit you know yeah and so we really had a good time those couple of years before covid
fucked it all up yeah that was fun dude yeah we had you know we had a lot of people we had you know
csi and bode and kind of i mean you could go there was hundreds of people yeah who's who not everybody
but a lot of people you know some people were busy or burned out or whatever you know yeah and so we
were trying to recreate some of those like more innocent time parties yeah and you know and you
know and i brought tons of weed and various friends brought tons of weed and we just have
like a huge table full of jars that were labeled and anybody could freely smoke yeah whatever they
wanted um and even even like just like the forums there was a bunch of friends i made on ig that
some of the first time they smoked the headband some of the first time they smoked the real chemd
some of the first time they smoked this different stuff um was at these parties they might hear you
talk about it but they don't actually see your week yeah you know and then they get a chance to
do it and then you get to share a bunch of your weed with friends and you get to do all these
different kinds of things you know and so that part is really neat because that kind of i wish
you went to dude we're gonna have another one after covid um you know yeah there's uh you know
it's it's just like a who's who of people that have been around for a long time and you would
not believe how little beef there is yeah there was none in person there wasn't any beef it was
just a bunch of friends it was smoking out eating a bunch of food having a great time you know
trading beans trading cuts making connections putting faces to names right yeah all that
different types of stuff right and so you have an aspect where we've had some issues this week where
you know you start having these talks week by week and like i said matt's a bit of a villain
online and because now i'm coming out and we haven't even hit some of the controversial
topics yet but as i'm coming out and talking about stuff um you start getting enemies
you start getting people that are annoyed that people are listening to you or they don't believe
your version of events or you know on ig or on various discords they want to like disparage
your character and say you weren't around and say that you didn't have anything or your weed
was shit or your seeds suck or whatever and honestly like it becomes really hard because
a lot of people that are listening you don't know the person you're siding with and you don't know
the person that you're against in real life yeah like an unhonest real life yeah no you know so it
becomes hard how do you choose you know how do you make stuff happen i mean there was people that were
accusing me this week of not even see the chems until oh eight yeah you know and then i came out
of nowhere and then all my stories are lies and not so it just means the stories are not so and
let's let's be fair though like the the people that were doing this were people that were in
the outer circle of our friend group and never made it quite on the in circle because they were
they were bad people and they fuck people over or they did certain things people haven't asked
yeah you know and that's my point right so matt will come out and say this person's a scammer
he's stealing cuts he's trying to fuck you over he's trying to take your money yeah and then that
person and like and and some bots and like a bunch of fake accounts and a bunch of people that bought
seeds all attack matt yeah you know he's a faggot he's a jew he's fat he's a bis he i got i'm also a
nazi he's a nazi jewish nazi all these various things they're getting attacked and so as i become
a public figure a little bit like they start attacking oh is that that party is weed sucks
this and that everything else and it's fine people to throw barbs it's part of it yeah right and i'm
not even saying you should trust me but what i am saying is that you know weed has a lot of people
lived in the shadows yeah and it's not documented and the reason why we're doing a bunch of these
stories is because we want to get oral history out there and we want to do it in a conversational
fashion that doesn't bore you to death yeah and we try to do that and then that steps on toes and
then people are furious and so they they can't fuck with the story right um but so they'll fuck
with matt or they'll fuck with me or they'll say you're a liar they say oh i know for a fact he
didn't touch kem until after 08 or he didn't have this or his this his headband is watered down or
whatever they want to say about matt it's just the 707 yeah just some bullshit and it's like
you know and it's like you don't want to spend all your life fucking like refuting a bunch of
bullshit you know because it's like everybody that knows me knows me yeah you know and matt
and vice versa you know and so we're trying to get truth out there we're trying to get truth
that like we're not making any money off of you know a lot of these a lot of these podcasts are
like weed infomercials here's three hours of why you should buy my seats yeah let's talk extensively
about you and why you're great and why you're integral to the story and why you're a cannabis
historian and why you're so amazing and this is going to help you make money shit i should have
been inserting myself into all this old shit god damn it yeah you know and it's like you do need
you know we do plug for two or three minutes some stuff that matt's doing or you know csi or
different people at times because there is a financial element to like making all this different
types of stuff work right yeah to some degree um but really what it is is that now that i'm old
and i'm in my mid 40s or whatever uh there might be people that are 23 that want to hear
yeah or might be 40 and want to hear the real truth and then eventually you just have to decide
because there are some real scumbags yeah that just come out and insert themselves and then rely
on if you speak up i'll blow up your fucking life and is it really worth it yeah i'll attack
and attack and attack and attack and i'll fuck you over and i'll make your life miserable for weeks
yeah so shut the fuck up about what you all know yeah and there's so much of that honestly and
coming from so many fucking angles like it's a headache it's rife for sociopaths it's rife for
shade balls beans have always been shady and they're not getting any less shady yeah you know
they're just not yeah you know no and there's but there's a bunch of us you know who have been
around long enough you know i mean there's this funny i'm not gonna call call them out or whatever
but like i don't even it was like a super long time ago and like me and skunk va were talking
about whether or not we were going to go to these like dead shows in the city right and he's telling
me he's like man because he was he's he's a little older than me and he was on tour for longer than i
was so he has more connections than i do to be perfectly frank because he's about six or seven
years older than me um yeah you know he was like dude we could go but he's like then i'm gonna see
this guy and i know he doesn't pay his child support and i'm gonna see this guy and he owes
my friend 15 grand and i'm gonna see this other guy and he and you know these people's backstories
and then it's like you're gonna see some people you're like so stoked on yeah and then you're
gonna see some other people and you're just gonna be like man why can't you be cooler we were friends
yeah you're kind of a shit bag yeah pay your kids you know yeah pay your child support pay my buddy
back you ripped him off when you were down and out you know yeah and that goes on in weed world
yes and then uh what city san francisco at the time at the time both uh him and i lived in
northern california he lived in sonoma i lived in mendo so we were we were thinking about going down
to sf and catching some shows at mountain view or something um you know and that's the thing
it's like a lot of times i'll talk about things in like a general sense um because you start calling
out individual people and then the next week of my life is fucking that asshole trying to defend
themselves yes and you know and blowing themselves up yeah and me and homie matt and i and me and
skunk b we know a lot of history yeah not all of it is not all of it is is beneficial to the people
no unfortunately but then you can't you know it doesn't pay to spend your whole life trying to
warn the famunity about jack off because it's whack-a-mole yeah i tried that i really did and
and it just it did not pay off it is it was detrimental to my career i will say i don't
recommend people do that for any reason whatsoever if you have a an interest in being successful
yeah i mean i uh so yeah you know i mean there's there's that aspect and so i'm not saying trust me
or trust matt i'm saying like if you're giving us your time every friday night you get to talk to us
at length and ask questions and stuff eventually you have to maybe you can hear enough of things
that you get a general sense of who we are yeah but i will say that ig is an image and that
sociopaths are very very good at curating an image yeah you know they do best and um you know and yet
someone just said nobody's perfect people aren't perfect you're right people aren't you know um
people aren't perfect and i'm not even trying to judge people that's why i'm not calling anybody
out by name yeah i'm just saying a general i'm just saying a general state of events i do have
someone i was going to call out by name but um it's uh it's getting late and there's one more
big thing i want to i want to get put aside so it's not just my opinion i'm actually using their
words um yeah i'm not gonna it's not even a big enough deal really but it'll just be funny
it'll be someone i once looked up to do it do what whatever you were about to do or you're not
no no i i still need some of the um the old some of the details yeah yeah so because i don't want
it just to be my opinion i want it to be dude's own words sure no i get it yeah so i mean and
that's kind of what we talk about like when people are like the can illuminati you know yeah the can
illuminati is not like some kind of organization or membership there's no dues you know there's no
one that controls it what it basically means is that you're enough of a weed head that you care
enough of the history to hold on to strains to hold on to seeds to want to dig for the truth
and you talk to other people like that and it basically it's a it's a like-minded group
of people and we know who each other are and it's like even amongst that group there's not
even really trading no there's just like dude like once you know it's like uh you know a skunk
va and i were talking earlier today about it it's like we're not going to trade anything
no like it's like oh you need a couple of these and i can get you this or whatever it's it's not
like a trade it's more just like you know you're this is what i have this is what you have yeah
you know i'm not saying there's anything wrong with trading because trading is perfectly acceptable
especially if you don't know each other but once you've been personal friends for a couple of
decades yeah it's just friends helping friends yeah you know and a lot of the ways that this
stuff exists like you know our history that's really why i'm chatting is because i don't want
all of our history to be lost no i want it to be out there in some kind of form and it's almost all
oral yeah and and with a lot of the forums going down over the years whether it be from the feds
you know getting a hold of the ic mag server to uh you know canna collective pot pimp any of the the
the c depot any of those that have gone down they had a lot of uh information on them like c depot
a lot of people that people look at today as old school heroes and whatnot or really trustworthy
people all popped up on c depot and their whole history is gone because that's that site was gone
the dude disappeared after fucking everyone over that owned it so um that's gone but it's in a lot
of people's memories so this is really the only chance we have to put that out there yeah and so
we're just we're just trying to we're just trying to like regurgitate stuff and get it out there and
get different versions of things yeah you know um and and you know like like anything you know some
of these stories there's people that have different memories yeah there's people that have different
versions even like the three or four people that were there might not tell the same tale
yeah they were the ones that were there i know i got a nickname for being a power bottom at the
last party and i'm pretty sure i was power top pretty sure you know but i mean it's it's cool
because then you get then you get you know these parties these gatherings and stuff they really are
bonding yeah they really are where human connections are made you get to smoke a bunch of your good
friends weed you get to see them in person you get to hear what their voice sounds like and and hear
them laugh you get to break bread and food with people you know yeah um and you get to share weed
and share experiences and so i think that's you know what maybe we can get the can aluminum can
illuminati parties together again uh now that covid seems to be dying down and there's lots of
people that are either been infected or vaccinated and it's not so much like the plague yeah it was
for a few years where it was shutting shit down um but those kind of gatherings are important and
so tonight you know we're almost at two hours so i'll probably shut up here in a second but
i just wanted to give like a general random overview of some of the overlapping things
that were happening in that era yeah it really set the stage for everything that came after
yeah it was really where a lot of friendships were made it was where a lot of trading and a
lot of seed exchange was done it was where a lot of cuttings and a lot of people smoking other
people's weed and learning happened and then a lot of those guys um ended up becoming super well
known in the community yeah you know um so you know it it it uh you know but you don't know it
at the time no that's the that's the funny thing about history is you don't know if you're if
you're making it you don't know you know so um but really what it boils down to is we're all just
people some of us care about the plant yeah uh some of us care about wrapping money and and and
you know scamming people and there's a big conflict between those two right now
yeah in the community there's been one for a long time yeah but it's gotten more public and i mean
even like you know matt's been doxxed before you know and even some of those comments i was
referencing that we're not going to mention this week people were saying my real name
yeah um not that i cared to some degree because um it's you know like i'm showing my face every
week so yeah principle of the thing though you're not saying your christian name every week no i'm
not saying my christian name every week or anything like that you know and so you know but but what's
funny about that is that i can use that later to prove something that will like blow them up in the
face yes yeah and i've been pushed enough enough times by this human being to you know just suck
it sucks to have to do it but because they're saying such extreme shit like there's only a
few things in life that i take real personal because when you talk about my friend's family
or you call me a fucking nazi like i spent my whole young life literally fist fighting nazis
and being punched by them many many many times so i take it very seriously when someone accuses me of
such things so yeah and you're doing it and i'm a jewish mexican yeah that kind of there's not
there's not too many nazi jews you know it's kind of unusual but so anyway matt if you want to do
your plug because we're almost two hours here or whatever yeah so we have our patreon it's called
the breeder syndicate patreon the way to find it is to go to google and type in breeder syndicate
patreon if you go to patreon and type in breeder syndicate it's not going to come up because it
is a pot channel and you cannot search pot channel so go to google type in breeder syndicate patreon
uh tomorrow i'm going to be watching fights if you want to you know hang out and do some fight
watching we could do that um we have uh the the santa cruz goat farm um fem lines the the reversed
arcade of train wreck lines um up for sale right now on the site go check them out my boy packs a
fucking killer dude and he made some killer things including the santa cruz blue dream um train wreck
which i'm really really stoked to see um we also have uh me and csi's uh hawaiian lights drop i'm
about to make the hawaiian lights hybrids public so everybody can fucking join in and and grab that
shit um so go check it out um yeah so i think i think that's it go check out speakeasy uh they
they do all the editing of the podcast and stuff so um go give them support and follow and and
well i'll just say one thing after matt did all that you know we're getting up to 200 230 250
people a week now doing this every every friday um thank you all for listening yeah thank you all
for taking time out of your night to bullshit with us and ask questions as always you can reach
reach me on ig you can message me um he's been he's been approved improving or approving people
so i've literally approved like 1500 people this week and it keeps going if you really want to get
approved send me a message at um and i'll see it and i'll do it faster for you i'm trying to get
through but everyone i really appreciate you giving us your some part of your friday night
and we're gonna try to get more topics and more history out there
and keep it fun so thank you all so much thank you guys uh see you next week cheers
