Welcome to Breeders Syndicate, where we explore the history of a clandestine scene through
the eyes of the folks who lived it.
I'm Matthew, owner of Riot Seeds.
I'll occasionally be joined by my co-host NotSoDog, breeder and grower from Mendocino.
Welcome to the underground.
Hey, what's up everyone?
Welcome to Breeders Syndicate.
My name is Matthew.
This is my co-host NotSoDog.
Hi NotSo.
There he is.
And we have with us today Madjag and Rejo.
So this is one of the episodes I've probably been looking forward to the most since we
started.
And I'll leave it up to Madjag to kind of start his tale because this is one I couldn't
possibly begin to start.
So Madjag, when you started getting into growing, what was the impetus?
What was the start?
Well, the start was a friend of mine who is a dealer in Tempe, weed dealer.
He saw all kinds of loads coming through over the years from the late 60s to let's
say 73, 74.
And he would high grade the seeds.
These were all seeded loads at first.
So if he had Guereran or if he had Oaxacan, if he found that it was a great strain, he
would keep the seeds.
And over time, he started collecting all these seeds.
And then one day around 1975, he said, why don't we just grow our own with these seeds
instead of having to deal with this important stuff?
So we decided to test that theory.
And that's the very first grow in 1976 I did with him.
And I went up and found the spot that we would potentially use in a remote canyon along the
Mogollon Rim.
Mogollon Rim is spelled like Mogollon, but it's pronounced Mogollon or Mogollon.
And it's the southernmost edge of the Colorado Plateau.
So it stretches from roughly from Williams, Arizona, all the way to Mogollon, New Mexico,
200 miles wide, this edge of the plateau.
And along the edge are all these cracks, let's call them.
And they're canyons with streams, year round streams.
There's probably, I'd say, 20 canyons with year round streams in that 200 miles.
And we chose one of them.
And when you decided to choose that, was it because you knew for a fact there was no like
real human interaction there?
Is it just so remote that nobody was going down there?
That's pretty much it.
The canyons stay up on top of the plateau edges and stuff, or they're way, way down
in areas that are easier to, more accessible.
To hike down 1600 feet into a canyon, down a boulder strewn wash through bushes and stuff,
hunters wouldn't do it because if they shoot anything, they'd have to carry it out.
And it's just way too remote.
The criteria was we wanted, it had to have a year round stream.
So we had to make sure that it was flowing in the heart of the summer.
And a Jeep trail dirt road that led close to it, so we wouldn't have to hike more than
maybe two hours one way.
And then we began testing it in different ways.
I'd have my friend who was the dealer from Tempe walk around down below while I was up
on the rim. And we had walkie talkies back then.
This is pre-cell phone.
So you just, you know, I'd go, oh, I can see you.
You're wearing a white T-shirt.
So that had to change.
And then he had a straw hat that had to change.
Just can't be doing those things if you're in the bottom of the canyon and hunters,
cowboys. Ranchers still use these areas back in the early 70s.
They were grazing cows there, even though it was national forest.
The forest would was allowing them.
I think their permits go back to the 1920s or 30s or 40s.
And they just allowed them to continue on.
And they got tighter and tighter.
And then eventually by, oh, let's say.
Late, late 70s, they stopped all the grazing in these areas in this particular area, which was great.
Yeah, yeah. It's very awful.
A canyon away, some guys from Jerome were growing and they parked there every week, week after week after week at the end of a Jeep trail.
And finally, the rancher using that area called the Forest Service and they came out and ran the plates and found, oh, wow, they're from Jerome.
The hippie capital of northern Arizona.
So that was their scene.
Yeah. And they didn't wait for them.
They just they didn't want to go down inside in case, you know, it would become a shootout or something.
So they waited till they harvested it and took it all back to Jerome.
And then they busted on Jerome with like a hundred pounds.
Oh, no. And they didn't have any effect on you guys?
No, it it bothered us because they were within five miles by air of where we were.
But it's so remote and so difficult.
They chose a canyon that was a lot better known and people were known for hiking through it and swimming through it because it was very long.
Had sections of wall to wall water.
You had to swim. Our canyon was unknown.
And you couldn't hike down from the top because there was a spot we called.
Oh, land not lands in the Hall of the Mountain King is what we called it.
It was a hundred foot waterfall drop off and you can't you couldn't you couldn't go down it.
So we never had to worry about anyone hiking downstream from where it started as a wash five miles away.
So how did you guys get in?
Did you guys go in a certain way that made it accessible enough, obviously, for you guys, but other people didn't know?
Yep. We drove five mile Jeep trail the first.
Well, this first time with my friend from Tempe, it was about a three mile Jeep trail and then maybe a thousand foot drop off down into the canyon.
And it it was a canyon that at the top was heavily used by swimmers and and people who are into crystal clear pools and things like that.
But the lower part where we were, there was no one.
We never left footprints either. We these beautiful sandbars that are long creeks and edges.
We would just avoid them because we knew that if anyone did hike through, that's the first place they would walk because it was easier.
So we could always check for footprints in our primary canyon, Magic Canyon, which came the next year.
In five years, we only saw one set of footprints.
Wow. Ironically, my partner picked up a hitchhiker on the way back to the nearest town and he was the guy who had hiked through there.
So we we found out he he was all excited because he had hiked this 12 mile canyon and saw nobody.
And he had hiked right by our gardens and never knew it.
You know, wow. Yeah. So that was good karma.
Meeting the guy, the hippie.
What I what I find so interesting when I was when I was reading a little bit about your your history and stuff is how similar,
although although a little bit different just due to geography, like when I first moved to Mendocino County and we were doing guerrilla before the medical era really started,
was how similar the criteria was in that you were looking for somewhere very remote and accessible.
Normal people, hikers, hunters, various people would never go there.
But you needed water and you couldn't really take a vehicle up there or even like dirt bikes or anything because you never wanted to leave a trail that would have been visible from the air.
So you would only get so, so close.
And then the rest of it was sort of hoofing it in and even hoofing it in from like different angles so that you wouldn't create a path in summer that would be visible.
Can I let me interject a question?
Were they flying looking for weed then or was that too early for that?
It was too early. They there were.
There were people who talked about that, that going on, but we never saw that happen.
We did have a helicopter land in our canyon in the only spot that was wide enough.
This is another weird one.
And their tracks went about the tracks from the helicopter, went about 400 yards down the canyon, stopped and then went back.
And we thought we were dreaming because we didn't see the helicopter.
We just saw these tracks and we followed them to this little opening.
But when we got down on our knees and looked carefully, little, little pieces of paint had chipped off the helicopters.
I forget what are those the skids, let's call them.
Yeah. And on the rocks because it's volcanic rock.
So it's very sharp. So we knew we were hallucinating.
And a helicopter had landed there.
And later we found out it was Eagle Studiers from the university in.
And we're not sure which university, but they were checking out all the canyons up there and getting out and hiking.
If they saw eagles and trying to get some numbers for their studies.
So we we felt OK.
But the the actual looking for plants, you know, if you were to open, if you were to like clear a huge wide area and leave it open and then just start growing.
Such that you could stand on the edge of a canyon and look down in and go, hey, what's that?
That would be bad. Yeah.
So you have to go in and out between the bushes, make little paddies that flowed from one to the next level and work it out.
And then later we even found out it made sense because we were up on the rim looking down after watering.
And the reflection on the mud was very obvious that this was an area that had gotten water.
So every time we water, which was once a week, we spread oak leaves and whatever leaves were there.
We started piling them up in advance and just threw them on top and totally stopped the reflection.
So we did a lot of things. We painted all of our hose connections with brown spray flat.
Sure. Spray paint so it wouldn't reflect. We never wore white T-shirts or hats.
We we had this photo that you have up right now. That's my first and my second part.
He's my first partner in MAGEC, because the guy I started with, who's the dealer, we went separate ways kind of because he didn't he lived in Tempe.
And it was just wasn't feasible for him to come up and do this every week.
So I lived in the Verde Valley, which I was still over an hour away, but it made more sense.
And this fellow that you see here was my first partner.
He lived in Flagg. And this is what the creek looked like year round water.
This pond right here is what we pumped out of. And our first garden was 90 feet above the creek level.
So we used a Briggs and Stratton four horsepower, two inch fire hose.
And it was it wouldn't pump up 90 feet.
So we had to drop down a garden hose adapter that it forced it up to 90 feet.
We just made it. Yeah.
There was different pumps we could have gotten for more money, like six horsepower that weighed 150 pounds or something.
And yeah, but we it worked.
So it took two hours that first garden to just move the hose around.
We only had one hose and we just move it.
In subsequent years, we created systems of hoses.
So you just you know, they all just watered.
And then those filled up little paddies and then those poured over onto the next level and to the next level,
because the terrain was relatively flat on these alluvial plateaus, but, you know, maybe a foot or two of differences.
Plus, we raked it and leveled it and used rocks to outline little paddies so that maybe there were two or three plants.
Yeah, on a paddy and then the next one would be next to it and would drop off.
We had free hoses, though, too, that were on Siamese shutoffs and we could open them up and then, you know, spot hit other plants.
And it worked pretty well. We spent a lot of time developing our hose network subsequent years.
Sounds like after that. Yeah.
So I'm going to, you know, Matt, Matt, Jack, this is Rao.
So just I want to jump in there.
You know, you're talking about all these guerrilla tactics.
And, you know, this is back in the 70s you're talking about.
When you were when you were doing all this stuff, was any of this kind of inspired by the war that we had just finished fighting in Vietnam?
And, you know, everything that we used to hear on the news all the time about the guerrilla fighters over there and how they concealed what they did.
I know that when I was doing my guerrilla stuff, it was, you know, I'm listening to your stories and it's exactly like what I did, except my stuff was all green and not not rock, you know.
But where was your inspiration for?
The horror catalog.
It was always the written word has always been my guide.
And this is a domestic grower supply catalog from 1981.
1980. And I read about this in the whole catalog.
And I I wrote in a way for it.
Look at these waterbed classical tanks to fit in the back of your truck so you can pull up to the edge of a canyon.
I knew people who use this method, then it all.
Gravity feed downhill for 600 feet to their spot.
And this this is a small little thing, small little catalog, but it does have a very nice section on on pumps.
And these guys, I don't know, once we started to use their second catalog in color, 1982, and they were based out of, I think, Oregon.
Let's see where this is. But they have all kinds of.
Guzzler pumps, hand operated, where you just that wouldn't work for us, but we've had a few times where things broke.
We had to water by hand using five gallon jugs, dipping them in the water and carrying them.
It takes a lot of fire.
But but you you can't neglect it because you're there to water.
And it was good the way we did it.
We were fortunate because one week we would flood irrigate.
We estimated in subsequent years that we were putting 20,000 gallons on on our little gardens.
So that was in this soft dirt that we used.
It would sink nice and deep and then the roots would follow it.
And it's but you couldn't go two weeks if you went like even 10 days, which we tried to do a few times.
You come back and all the plants were wilted and drooping or freaked out because we thought we had messed up.
And we went ahead and watered.
And the next morning, everything was standing up perfect and looking beautiful.
And there are amazing plants how they can be almost shriveled.
And then one water in the end or just, you know,
Did you ever use any like any water retention crystals or anything like that to extend?
Because that was that was that was some technique that, you know, like by the time that I got to Mendocino County and started doing stuff like that, there was already a lot of like, I don't know if you want to call it hill tech or older people that were
passing down how to get away with things.
And infrequent watering was always, well, how do you retain the water?
How do you how do you keep it?
How do you keep things wet when you're only checking on things every so often?
So our canyon was 12 miles long and we we hiked it up and down to find the two spots that we this was the first spot that's on the camera right now.
But the other two spots we found were up canyon and.
We you just don't come across alluvial plateaus at water level, they're up at least 20 feet above and we had to scramble up and look and scramble up and we'd be up in the rim and look down and say, hey, that looks like a good spot and then go back the next week and check it.
But when we finally found our two spots, this soil is wind deposited over centuries and decades, multitudes.
And it was so nice.
There was rocks in their big boulders, as you can see here.
But in this very first place down below here is where that photo was taken.
And this is at almost at harvest.
You can see the size of the coal is.
We the soil was just this beautiful, rich volcanic soil, although when Robert Clark came down in the second year of our new location, not this one, he said he believed we were growing in dirt.
And I said, what do you mean in dirt?
And he said, well, in Mendocino and up in north, it's not dirt like this.
It's soil like black, rich soil.
And ours was brown and in green.
And just dirt.
But it was easy to shovel.
So that meant that water penetrated it.
And so did roots very easily.
We turned the soil down 18 inches, I think.
And the only amendments we ever added were bone meal and blood meal.
Oh, wow.
That was it.
We just have to do a folio.
And the folio spray saved us from this twisting leaf thing that we it was a micronutrient that was missing.
We think it was molybdenum, but we spray the plants and it saved our butts because they all untwisted.
Now, that's nice.
But that's it.
Just when you were when you were.
Let me ask a question in terms of when did the growing season like when were you when was it nice enough outside that you were able to plant and how much work did you do to prep in the winter and the fall?
The winter, spring off season, like you said, you turn the soil and you had to run all these hoses and prep all this different stuff.
How much pregame went into like preparing the areas you were thinking about using?
We had November and December and January off, and then we were back out in February.
We, you know, preparing.
We we started small at this garden here you're looking at in this photo is probably 100 feet by 50 feet with boulders and trees and stuff in it.
It it's it blended in pretty well, even from the other end.
It really well.
Yeah.
However, the next garden we used was three times the size of this.
And if we planted in between bushes and trees, which I'm sure you've seen in some of the photos.
And but when there were no plants, those between the bushes and trees were the paddies were I'm just calling that we had to build up with rocks and have it spill over to the next garden in the next or in the next paddy in the next one.
But we had free hoses to to be able to walk around and in water with.
It took.
I don't know, months of prep the very first time because we had to bring down so much stuff and then the third year we grew, we did two gardens.
That was the big year.
And that's the year that Rob Clark came down to see.
He he only came down to see the one easiest to reach garden.
And.
In this this photo is kind of an early photo of that first garden.
Yeah, these are little tiny plants in here in these.
See if we can get that that first garden.
So was that primarily different, different types of Mexican that your dealer friend had collected?
Was that was that the primary seed stock for the first season?
I mean, you were saying stuff about what Hawken, I believe, and some other things.
Whereas there any Colombian and stuff?
Yeah, but the first year we just grew the Mexican strains and it was in this other canyon that people actually went to the top of it and would swim there.
But our canyon.
We didn't start till my partner that you saw down there next to the water.
That hold it right here.
If you could hold that one.
But which one?
The last one or this?
Yeah, the last photo.
OK, aerial photos.
OK, aerial photos.
I was trying to jump through this one.
Now this one, you can see how they stand out.
Yeah, definitely.
The canvas, the evergreens here were giant pines and small shrub oak trees and bushes.
But from the rim, it didn't look too too blocky.
No, they were scattered out.
If you really knew what you were looking for.
Yeah, you would have spotted this from 1600 feet above.
But no one really went to those edges in those canyons.
This was not especially when it's 100 degrees out.
It it was difficult.
So this is just I'd say this is one half of this garden.
It extends over here and over here.
And this was only 30 feet above of above the creek.
But it was in a spot that you would never expect it.
And we hiked up there and went, holy cow, this is perfect.
So we were able to pump two inches of water in a two inch fire hose up to this flat.
And that's why we put about 20,000 gallons on here every week.
And so do you mind me asking how old you were?
I was 28, 28,
yep, 28 and 29 and 30 when we were doing these three canyons,
these three gardens that you're seeing here.
Yeah, I my partner was the same age.
We were all just, you know, late 20s and right around 30 when we started doing this.
In 76, though, I was only 25.
Are you are you still in contact with any of the other guys?
All of them. All of them.
So they're all still with us.
That's awesome. That's awesome.
Yeah. The relatively speaking, the dealer from Tempe has.
What's that disease?
He's now in a wheelchair after 15 years.
He made it 15 years.
Multiple sclerosis.
Oh, yes. MS. Yeah. Yeah.
So he's kind of restricted.
Another partner who was the very last one I worked with, he was a friend.
We all knew each other independently.
I mean, it was great because we're all really friends.
He has early onset Alzheimer's.
He's 70 and he he has great
long term memory, but he can't drive a car.
He if he gets in a car and starts driving, he doesn't remember where he is within a block.
So he's restricted.
But my first partner that you saw there in magic came down by the water.
He he's still he's six foot seven and he's a big guy.
He's still around and I see him every once in a while.
But my partner for the last two years in magic,
he lives in Taos.
He's originally from the UK.
One who just wrote The Year of the Magic.
He's got it on Amazon.
You can get it.
It's a fictional account of.
Using all of that.
Yeah, all of us in our in all of the characters.
But it's more about a love affair he had
at the time.
And it's pretty funny.
Is he he got an honorable mention in the in the
F. Scott Fitzgerald competition or something?
Oh, wow. He he is writing a second book now already.
That's going to be more factual.
My that'll be great.
My my pilot friend who he's in the Chronicle,
I wrote called.
I know the guy who knows the guy.
Yeah, he I just talked to him a few days ago.
He called me because he just fell and broke his hip.
And I was going to invite him to be on this show.
But he's in the hospital in Anchorage, Alaska now.
I know. Bizarre.
So the universe didn't want that to happen.
And I had kind of thought he wouldn't want to. He.
He makes Mr. Nice look small.
I can. We'll go into his story later, if you don't mind.
Yeah, I'd love to.
The last time I saw him physically in nineteen eighty five until last year,
they were just working on 60 tons of hashish from Pakistan.
And this is the level he worked at.
And he retired.
Never was busted.
He that's incredible.
You know, I know it's it's amazing.
If you knew him, this is you'd understand.
This is why I was so intent on getting this show, because I think,
you know, we talk about a lot of the people who who we
who've been put on a pedestal in our scene.
I mean, of course, Sam, the skunk man, Rob Clark, amazing people
obviously deserve their accolades.
I mean, the big heroes in the scene.
But there's some guys who did some really big,
bold stuff that don't quite get seen for many reasons.
A lot of it has to do with the fact that it was clandestine and illegal.
And it's in some folks don't even still want to talk about it.
But there are some amazing stories out there that I've come across
over the years and yours was one.
And speaking to someone that you were able to bring with you, Raho,
I wanted to get into a little bit with you, Raho.
Can you talk about when you first started collecting and getting into growing?
Yeah, sure, Matt.
It's a. And it seems like so long ago, you know, I was just a kid.
78 was the first time I smoked weed.
And back then you had to smoke, you know, three, four or five times
before you ever actually felt the effect.
I don't know if it was because the concentration of THC
wasn't so, you know, as high as it is today or maybe
the stuff that kids could buy on the street back then wasn't so great.
But, you know, by the time by the time
I got high that very first time, you know, I was 15 years old
after school at a buddy's house and.
You know, we it took a while to kick in and.
After I was I was actually riding my bike home,
thinking, oh, you know, another time that it didn't work
when it started to hit me.
Right. And it was a beautiful spring day.
The sun was out.
You know, the air was just it was one of those days where the air was crisp
and it was the temperature was perfect.
You know, I'm cranking away on this 10 speed bike
and the wind is blowing in my face.
And all of a sudden, I kind of noticed that the the air and the light
and everything is just kind of alive.
And the feeling of the wind and the air circulating around me
and in my face and everything just became,
you know, it was like it was like I was connected with everything around me.
And it was just a wonderful experience.
And, you know, I get I get home
and I put on I put on some music because I'm really cranking at this point.
Right. It's it's really kicking in.
And I'm like, wow, you know, I mean, I drank I drank plenty of beer and
you know, but this was nothing like it, you know.
And I put on these headphones and it's Ted Nugent, Great White Buffalo.
Right. Wide open, cranked up.
And it's like, you know, that's yeah, you know, that song,
you know, the Great White Buffalo.
And oh, my God.
The heightened senses and all of it going with it.
Yes. How old were you, Rahul?
Fifteen. Fifteen.
Perfect day for it, too.
When I was listening to that, it sounds like you had your very own bicycle day,
because that's what happened to Albert Hoffman when he first took LSD
as he didn't know.
That's right. Yeah.
And he got on a bike and started going around all of a sudden colors and wind.
And he's like, what's going on?
I'm starting to feel something unusual.
And yeah, changing.
Yeah. Wow.
I had no idea, man.
That's awesome.
And he's celebrating today.
They call it Bicycle Day
because he took acid accidentally and then he hopped in his bike
and he and he started, you know, riding around and all of a sudden
things started altering on him and he really wasn't sure what was happening.
He thought it was the most beautiful experience he'd ever had
and wanted to give it to everyone.
It was kind of similar to what you just said.
It was that's what it is.
It's colors and the wind.
And you were very in tune with nature and like you're riding your bike.
It just kind of triggered that for me of. Yes.
Of your your head space changed.
And all of a sudden the world was born anew.
So it was. Yeah, that's amazing.
What I mean to to share that experience or similar.
Right. With with such a famous man.
Pretty cool.
It's a great story, dude.
So, you know, I mean, that was that was the first time getting high.
And as soon as I came down, you know,
and mom and dad came home from work and I'm like, God, can they tell, you know?
Of course. Yeah.
Dinner's prepared and everything.
It's, you know, and I was starting to reflect on what's,
you know, what's what's happened to me.
And I realized that, you know, the last seven years of my life
that I've been told these things in school about drugs are bad.
You know, they're they're evil and they'll make you want to jump off of a building
because you think you can fly or you'll be violent or, you know,
you'll immediately be addicted and fiending for more.
And, you know, I mean, it was just all of a sudden I just started
questioning everything I'd ever been told by the by the authorities, you know,
because they lied about this.
And if they lied about that, what else did they lie about?
You know? Yeah.
So, you know, almost as every every bag of weed that that I got after that.
And there were many. Right.
Because that was the beginning.
And of course, and, you know, I've never, never been the same.
But every bag came with seeds back then for.
Yeah, of course.
That's right. You know, two fingers.
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah.
Next two fingers for a quarter, one finger for a dime bag, you know, half ounces.
It's just, you know, simple math.
But there are plenty of seeds in it.
And, you know, where I lived, you know, in the southeast,
it was mostly Colombian that we saw.
I know I know Mad Jag, you know, they got lots of Mexican out there
and he was very close to to where it came from and everything.
But for us, you know, buying kids, buying weed on the street,
it was it was commercial Colombian most of the time.
And, you know, it's just loaded with seeds.
So the very next year in
seventy nine, I I tried to grow my first garden.
And, you know, I had a tray full of sprouts.
I've been gardening with my mom ever since I was a little kid,
you know, in the vegetable garden, tomatoes and cucumbers
and watermelons and you name it. Right.
But growing growing weed was just another garden thing for me.
And so I got them to sprout.
I think I might even use the paper towel method, you know, I mean,
because after I started smoking it, I immediately discovered High Times Magazine
and it became a monthly ritual of going down to the bookstore and picking it up.
And that was at the beginning of High Times, yeah.
Seventy six, seventy seven, seventy five.
Yeah. So it had been around for a few years.
I mean, I think 70 was the first year.
There you go. Yeah.
And but, you know, I took those sprouts and I put them out in the in the bright,
full sunlight, you know, that I started them indoors under a little fluorescent
light and I put them with no hardening at all under the sun.
And I went out the next day and they were all dead.
Oh, yeah. And that was the end of, you know, year one.
Total failure.
You know, the next year I came back and I hit it pretty hard.
And me and a couple of friends of mine.
How are your parents with this?
You know, that's a great question.
Just amazingly open minded about it.
You know,
that it's at one point maybe it was 81.
I think I started I started breeding.
I had picked up Rob Clark's
marijuana botany, marijuana botany, and it was just so inspiring.
You know, I mean, it really everything just clicked as far as the
the science of breeding and
the way that he described, you know, genetics and selection
and creating hybrids and everything.
It all it was all so intuitive to me.
It all just made complete and total sense.
So I immediately wanted to make my own seeds and
start breeding.
And, you know, that meant.
Of course, you know, we we wanted smoke, too.
So we needed to segregate the males.
And I wound up bringing these male
indica plants into my parents house.
You know, I mean, I had these things in the dining room, in the window,
just stinking, you know, how I know how they put up with it.
So my my mom is gone now, so I can't I can't.
I can't ask her that. Yeah.
I have a question for you.
So it sounds like, you know, obviously
he's you know, he's messing with Wahakon and different things from Mexico,
you know, Arizona and New Mexico and that are not that much different climate.
But if you're in the southeast of the United States
and you're getting mostly Colombian, when you that second year
where you didn't kill your seedlings and you got a lot farther down the path,
did you hit a point where you were like, are these ever going to finish?
That's a great question.
So, you know, that second year
we had a neighbor across the street
had pulled in a harvest in 79.
One of one of the one of his friends had gone to Maui for Christmas
and had come back with seeds of what I know now was Maui
Wally in 79.
And he grew they grew a big patch of that stuff.
And it was it was wide leaf.
It was you know, I know today that it was it was Mexican
and some sort of indica hybrid.
You know, it finished early.
It had amazing taste.
And being a poor kid that cut lawns for money.
Luckily, half of their crop was seeded and they sold me the seeded stuff
for cheap because nobody wanted it. Yeah.
So back then, nobody wanted seeded weed.
Well, you know, I mean, everything was seeded.
You know, sure.
When you when half your crop is is seedless and they made T-shirts,
you know, that said sins and they were they were so, you know.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. They were.
I'd love to see some of those today.
I know I'm such a nerd for all the old vintage shit.
If you ever see it, let me know.
You know, it's it's amazing.
You know, kids immediately turn into, you know, these instant entrepreneurs
when they wind up with with, you know, a bedroom
full of weed hanging from the ceiling. That's for sure.
You know, it's just all of a sudden, you know, it turns into, well,
all my friends are going to want this.
So how much am I going to charge for it?
Yep. And, you know, all of these got lucky in the sense
that you got a hybrid that would actually finish in your area.
Yeah, because, yeah, I always had this idea.
And I'm obviously like in 19 when you guys are speaking of 1975, 77, 78.
I was still happily in diapers.
So that's definitely not my my part.
But I always thought that like maybe the first American breeding
was you're getting this import from Thailand and Columbia
and Panama and all that.
And you're like, well, how the hell do I get this to finish where I'm at?
Maybe I can take this Mexican and I can shorten it up some
because this Mexican seems to be quicker.
But you're exactly right.
Yeah, this time, this Colombian is taking a million years
and it's getting cold and it's getting rainy.
And my stuff doesn't even look like it's done.
Yeah. So I mean, that that that Maui was was only part of the crop
that we did that year.
You know, it was we also had a Mexican and we had we had a couple of Colombians.
You know, it was and all my friends were growing
at that point. Right.
So, you know, everybody had a couple of plants out in the woods.
And we go to a party on Friday night.
Somebody's parents were out of town and sometimes they'd walk out
behind the house and, you know, into the woods behind their house.
And there'd be a little six foot Colombian Christmas tree in a in an opening
in the woods behind their house, you know, just a just a little hole
in the canopy where the sun came in.
And yeah, so those Colombians, you know, they would they would
we didn't we never really finished them as we know.
You know what? You know, resin glands and, you know, finish.
They weren't they were never really properly finished,
but they were finished well enough that, you know, we we could get into
the end of November and sometimes even, you know, first couple of weeks
of December where I lived before before the frost would.
That's very helpful.
Yeah. And the hardest part is actually, you know, not picking it early.
Kids didn't know any better.
And we just wanted to smoke the stuff.
So, you know, I mean, we were just going off of the
the weather reports in the newspaper and.
Sure. You know, farmers all that bullshit.
So maybe maybe I could ask a question of both of you.
These first couple of years that you guys are both describing.
What were the what were the the aromas?
What were the scents? What were the terpene?
You know, no one's no one used terpenes back then.
But like what were the what did the weed smell like to you?
You know, did it just smell like weed?
Did you did you get citrus? Did you get any kind of skunk?
Did you get did you smell like weed?
You know, if you can remember what aromas were you getting off
these original Mexicans and and Colombians and these and these
or even a 1979 skunk one, what would that smell like?
Well, yeah, we're going to get there.
But I was just curious is like what what did what Hawkins smell like?
You know, like, did it because, you know, we know
we know these lines from like way later when they've been worked by people
extensively and bred in different directions.
And it sounds like you guys were getting it basically from the farmer.
The source in the sea from unadulterated from the farmer
and the source actual like we would call land race today, I suppose.
Do you want to go first, Matt Jagger?
Sure. Well, the very first.
I'll just I have a little start up here.
The first two joints I bought were in 1966 from the only hippie in my high school.
And I I wasn't quite ready to smoke them.
So I put them in a bottle and buried them in my yard.
And two years later, when I dug them up and thought, oh, try them.
They were just mold, pure mold.
So that didn't work.
But they had, you know, your really earliest weed
that I remember smelling from my friend in.
Well, when I went to.
Yeah. Pine, pine terpenes
really stood out in 1975 or 76.
Some growers weed from Santa Barbara was showing up in the Verde Valley
in Sedona, Cottonwood, Jerome area and probably coming to Phoenix.
And it smelled just like fresh pine.
I've never smelled weed like it again since then.
It if you close your eyes and just held it up, you would think you were
you had pine soul in your in front of you.
Like a Christmas tree style or pine soul, would you say?
More of a Christmas tree style.
Yeah. Natural pine.
Cool. Yeah. Yeah.
And it was it was beautiful stuff.
It was since the media, it was strong and it was very inspiring
because when we smelled that tide, we though tie stick had a total different scent.
It was heavy and earthy.
I remember seeing early tie sticks in 1970, 71 that were.
Supposedly dipped in opium, too, or opiate, the pass of water.
Right. Yeah. They had white on the outside.
We sat down with some black hash ones that was opiated, supposedly
blue, black, white specks of it.
And we cut out with razor blades every white speck.
And so we could have been mold.
So we can have enough to take a hit.
And it wasn't opium.
And it wasn't opium.
I don't know what it was.
It didn't get us any higher, but it made the costs go up.
When people were buying it, they paid more for it.
I've looked a lot into that situation, especially when researching chocolate
type, because a lot of that theory behind chocolate tie was that it was dipped
in something called pasha water or pass a water, which was the
the the water that was left over from producing heroin.
It had the alkaloids, the morphine alkaloids and stuff in it.
And supposedly the story was that they would dip it in that.
But there's not really any proof of any of this ever existing anywhere.
But that was the theory behind it and where it kind of all stemmed from.
It may have happened once or twice, but I don't know if it ever really got out there.
But I've heard about people being charged
massive amounts of prices for these tie sticks that were supposedly dipped
in this water.
Yeah, there's been long, long debates about that online.
But yeah, you know, it's I think it's been pretty much debunked,
mostly because the people growing the two different crops
weren't really the same people.
And a lot of them weren't producing heroin.
They were just farmers.
Not right.
Like not like before we lose track.
What was the case that you were getting off off your Hawaiian hybrids
that you were successful with that second year?
Right. So, I mean, you know, the Mexican versus Colombian,
you know, pretty, pretty distinctive.
I usually associate
cedar tastes and kind of a kind of a citrus,
citrus, piney, cedary taste with with Mexican.
And I grew some beautiful Alakan a couple of times that, you know,
it flowered so much faster than the Colombian
that I actually let it go too long to the point where it was
it was actually over mature and it had lost some of its potency.
But but that was contrasted with the Colombians, which were,
you know, usually we'd get a lot of purple
because they'd be coming in so late that just the temperature change
would would bring out a lot of purple colors in it.
You know, once something turns purple that.
What's that? What's that?
It's not chlorophyll. It's the other.
The cyanins?
Yeah. The anthocyanins really seem to affect the taste.
Oh, yeah. They always do.
Affects the taste and smell.
But yeah, no doubt.
And and personally, I like it. Right.
I do, too. Purple fiend.
Yeah. But, you know, like like Madjag said, the you know,
the pine was was there in the Colombian.
And there's a difference
between the smell and the taste when you smoke it.
There's. Yeah, there is.
There's some of it has kind of a chocolatey.
I mean, you know, I don't want to completely sidetrack things
into a haze talk, but, you know, my my belief is when I
when I started growing O'Hays,
you know, a few years ago, I found that the effects one day,
I just realized that the effects that I got from smoking O'Hays
and even the taste were exactly the same
as what I felt that first time I got high riding that bicycle home.
You know, the yeah, the Colombian.
And you know that, you know, it really kind of messed
with my head a little bit because for so long, people talked about
Hayes as the mixture of, you know, four different kinds of of Sateve's
Mexican, Colombian, Thai and Indian. Right. Yeah.
And, you know, trying to figure out how this what what is obviously,
you know, Sam's the O'Hays as it's been released to the world since
since Sam brought it to Amsterdam.
Yeah. You know, is not everything that they
that they made when the poster was made. Right.
And and the pedigree was described.
It's that's what Sam brought with him.
That's what Sam preserved.
That's what Sam shared.
A three way Colombian hybrid. Right.
Not the Indian, not the Thai, not not the Mexican.
And the tastes are there.
You know, there's kind of a chocolatey taste to it.
You know, earthy. You could call it.
There's piney.
You can find some sweetness in there, some citrus.
There's different phenols in there, but it's all coming from Colombia
as far as I'm concerned.
You know, we can have a debate and I'll let anybody believe
what they want to believe.
I genuinely think like right now,
there is a man with a letter D for a name that is just smiling ear to ear.
When it when a devil's old partners have been talking to me and not so a bunch
specifically about Sam's O'Hays being so Colombian dominant,
being so Colombian dominant in the the 69 Hayes, was it
that Neville had gotten the first time was very much more
like Southeast Asian dominant.
And that was the main difference between the Hayes Neville was using
and why Neville's Hayes became so popular and why a lot of the O'Hays.
Supposedly, that's one of the theories why O'Hays didn't come as
as much as it had promised.
It reminded me of something, actually, because it had been mentioned
earlier on on the thing is that when, you know,
Thai and stuff like that was a little bit broader leafed. Right.
And, you know, he made a point that, you know, Sam and those guys,
you know, they kept breeding towards the thin leaf
because they thought that was more sativa.
But that was actually more Colombian sativa.
And that some of the Southeast Asian stuff and some of the ties,
it's not like they were fat leafed, but they were broader leafed
than pure Colombian was.
Yeah, I've got a picture of a tie.
I grew in eighty one.
It was it was a tie stick from 1980 that a friend brought home from college.
Older brother of one of my partners brought home from college and in
in Colorado.
And it's very thin leaf.
And I know that, you know, people talk about with tie the alligator tail
leaves, right. Broad leaf, extreme serrations.
And it's you know, it's it's it has a reputation for that.
But that was you know, it's a it's a big country.
And, you know, we all know from growing that, man, you can't even pack
pop a ten pack of seeds without seeing, you know, a couple of narrow
leaves in there with the wide leaves.
So why should we think that an entire country is going to produce nothing?
But the same thing, of course, microclimate everywhere.
Yeah. Yeah. For for Matt and myself,
you know, when I was first started smoking,
the only real two kinds of import I ever saw was brown Mexican and green Mexican.
I came up a little later.
The tie, the Colombian, the you know, the Panamanian,
all some of these different regional things, you know, the the shift
towards all those groups, mostly importing cocaine, it already happened.
So a lot of the diversity in imports had changed.
And there was still a bunch of Mexican.
But that's kind of all it was.
Yeah, I have the same experience for me, even a decade
coming in a decade, I think, after not so where I was starting.
It was the same. We had Mexican. Was it?
You know, talking about these Mexicans, I'm thinking about Madjag's experience
with that stuff, and I don't want to can we just stick a pin in there?
I want to make one more point about the Hays and the the Colombian,
the Colombian roots of it as we know it today.
For for the first time, we had a Mexican
that, you know, Colombia, just like we were just discussing,
Thailand is, you know, obviously going to have a diverse
range of different different chemo type phenotypes, whatever.
But but, you know, in Colombia, you had reds and golds and green and,
and, you know, black, black.
Yeah, I mean, so many different types.
And and they all had a lot of diversity.
types and they all had such distinctive flavors and tastes
and effects.
So, you know, I was lucky, you know, when I started doing this
stuff, it was it was the end of the glory days of those elite
those elite types of wheat.
I got to smoke the Panama Columbian red.
I got to smoke real Santa Marta gold and you know,
they all have things in common, but but they were some unique
characteristics about them that just, you know, Viva La Difference,
you know, just a big big big fan of R the Connoisseur and High
Times Magazine and he inspired me to become a connoisseur of
life and appreciate all the differences between things and
savor them.
And I want to point this out just because I just even a recent
episode.
I made a statement that I thought R was Robert Clark because
that's kind of what people have been saying forever or it's
assumed, but I think that might be wrong.
Maybe.
Totally wrong.
Totally wrong.
So yeah, that's that's an important note to make because I have
always associated everything Robert Clark's ever written with
R the Connoisseur and I love R the Connoisseur and I love Robert
Clark too, but I've always associated them as the same person
and then they're not.
I asked Rob himself because yeah long ago.
I wondered the same question and he said no and I actually
heard R's real name and I can't remember it right now, but
someone I know from Manhattan knows him and and said, oh no,
that's a different guy.
I wonder if he's still with us.
I don't know.
Man, you'd be great one to interview.
One thing I'm curious about I don't want to there's lots of
so many threads that happen in these kind of convos you could
lose it at but when you were describing how difficult it was
to get to your Canyon grows having done some gorilla myself
and and hidden obviously like growing it is one thing but then
harvesting it and drying it and getting it out of there is
another thing.
Could you talk for a minute about what that was like if you're
had going down some goat trail through the rocks and all of
the sudden you have several hundred pounds that would be
dry, you know that I mean more like a thousand pounds when
it's wet, you know, did you try to dry it there in the bushes?
Did you hike it all out one by one?
How much effort went into that because I that's a real struggle.
We once we started growing in our own Canyon in Mad Jack
Canyon.
We did everything except for that first year where you had
the photo of my friend down next to the water, but the subsequent
two years with my partner from the UK and we had a Swiss helper
to who I'm still good friends with I saw him three years ago
in Zurich.
He we did everything down there.
We manicured it.
We dried it manicured it boxed it.
We bought knockdown boxes from a supplier in Phoenix.
It were roughly I'd say about well for 12 inches by 8 inches
by 6 inches and that held a pound.
So that's perfect.
What we did we brought Kelty pack frames that were just bare
frames without the associated baggage on them and bungee cords
and we could stack five of these boxes on one Kelty so you
could carry out five pounds.
Oh, wow.
Every every bit was hiked out that way up this 1600 foot washed
of boulders and strewn and we had pruned a few branches here
and there where you just had to have clearance to get under
a pine tree or something and we were very fortunate because
our one of the people in my life who's still around.
He was one of the two princes of peyote that I've written
about he also is huge weed dealer and he would meet us at
the edge of our Canyon after sunset and we would just hike
up hand him however many boxes we brought up and he'd hand
us a paper bag full of cash and we didn't have to even drive
to Phoenix or take the risk of trying to take it back home
because that was actually the thought of working that hard
for a year and then losing it all because you got a traffic
stop that was really influenced us.
So we got a hundred dollars an ounce 1600 a pound and that
was the standard price and he sold it all by grams smart
man.
He sold it.
He sold it for $10 a gram to college students at ASU.
He lived two blocks away from from ASU in 10.
He just would buy everything we had and just slowly sell it
over a year or two and triple his money.
So you had a you had a you had one or two friends that were
helping you right?
So when it comes to hiking it out if you could bring about
five pounds at a time that means each trip you're probably
at a maximum of 10 or 15 pounds.
Yep.
And so in Harvest and we brought in six more people at
Harvest time.
Okay, it makes more sense.
Yeah, I was gonna say I was like man you were really fit.
Yeah, your legs your hiking ability was intense because
it's a lot of back and forth.
Yeah.
Well that part I mean I've I've hiked down gasoline, you
know, five gallons of gas is like 35 pounds and we that's
a bag of garbage bags and it would still stink.
It was amazing because shaking it and moving down it was
so difficult to keep it not from saturating everything but
at Harvest time boyfriends and girlfriends of ours and others
most we had a eight people down there manicuring we we set
up 10 by 10 foot Coleman classic tents that were spray-painted.
So they were a light brown color, but we sprayed them with
a little darkness and green and they blended in very nicely.
And we limbed the plants.
We we cut we cut a whole plant if we could if it wasn't too
big we hang it for a day or two and then we cut the branches
off limb and stack them like like that all the way up inside
these tents.
So in case it did rain we weren't going to get caught in
you know, whether yeah, you know plants getting wet.
Did you do a lot of sun drying?
No, it was all and I know we hung rope between trees and just
hung them in there and it was still in the 90s or 80s in the
day at night.
It would drop up up where we were growing.
We were growing at about 4,500 feet.
So it night it would cool down but in the day this you know,
it was really nice plus we were growing in our main Garden was
in an East West.
Situation so that the Sun when it came up it hit very early
and it went almost to the end of the night because it did drop
below the Canyon Edge at each end.
But one of our gardens was in a north-south section.
It only got seven hours or eight hours of direct sunlight at
max and still the plants grew perfectly and beautifully didn't
make a difference.
But the East West Gardens, you know, they got 10 11 hours of
direct sunlight were awesome.
Yeah, I bet they grew much bigger plants much taller for
what when did that when did the Mexicans naturally finish like
when was your harvest time?
When were they ripe those first few years for you October
October?
Yeah, the Colombian you passed a photo by there earlier.
It was it was it was snowing on the rim above us here Thanksgiving
and that's our tent one of them.
Yeah, there's some that the tent.
Yeah, there it is.
Right in there.
Well hidden that was a that was the north-south Garden.
We called the Anasazi.
There's the Hall of the Mountain King.
You cannot you know that kept hikers out.
Yeah, I bet way the Colombian we didn't know about these things
about finishing and how long they would take and it was crazy
because it was they were the size of my little fingertip, you
know, the buds and yeah, it was Thanksgiving and snowing above
us.
So we didn't grow any more Colombian after that first year.
It is it.
I think was it by our and anyway, there's this famous.
There's this famous list of seeds that's been attributed to
Sam or it's been attributed to others or whatever and it had
a bunch of you know, hazes and skunks and different things
like that.
But what was interesting about it is it was organized by month
that it finished and there was only three or four things that
finished in October.
There was probably 10 things that finished in November and
then there was like 25 things that were December or January,
which is like a polar opposite of today.
Yeah, well Rob was growing in Ben Lomond just above Santa
Cruz in the Redwoods there and he you know, the the temperatures
were very Mediterranean in a sense, you know, it would be
cool.
Yeah.
Back to I wanted to jump forward to a question when you were
talking about Mendocino and up north.
Did you ever do you know where Redway is?
Yeah, 100% town of Redmond.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Southern Humboldt.
Yes, because I met my Colombian friend and in future partner
in many escapades at the Country Tavern there in 1972.
Oh, wow.
A guy from Scottsdale owned the Country Tavern and he also had
his own chemist and he produced millions and millions of hits
of acid.
That's amazing.
When we went into that Tavern the first time half the people
were tripping and it was just wow.
It was like insane, but my Colombian friend who I just met
there.
He took me on a hike down towards Shelter Cove Shelter
Cove was was just five houses then that were abandoned because
it was a someone tried to do a subdivision there and it didn't
work.
So as we hiked down we went off into the woods because he knew
about a few plants and I saw my first plants over there that
were growing.
They were individual holes in between the Redwoods like where
there was a spot of Sun shooting down in and it was just this
beautiful black rich soil and their plants were, you know,
probably six or seven feet tall.
So I was like, wow, that's cool.
But yeah, that's my part of the country.
I moved to Mendocino County in 1998 and I've lived there since
so Southern Humboldt, Humboldt in general, Mendocino Lake all
those areas.
That's kind of like my stomping grounds.
Cool.
And yeah, and you know, like like you were saying with LSD or
whatever else, you know, there was back then it was remote.
It was mountainous.
You could get it, you know, there wasn't very many people your
worries up there were hunters and loggers.
Right, but lots of people went up there to kind of get away
from things.
Some people grew weeds.
Some people did other things but it was that isolation and that
and that being kind of out in the middle of nowhere.
Bill, that was kind of no idea.
I have no idea how this guy from Scottsdale found Redway, but
that he bought the tavern there and he was living nearby and
his chemist was somewhere nearby out in the woods.
And yeah, it was a interesting place and that's where my
Colombian friend was, Gerardo.
So he was on a student visa, but he overstayed an extra eight
years.
So, yeah, he he spoke he learned English simultaneously with
Spanish in Colombia and Cali since he was five years old.
So he spoke such perfect English that later in life when we
were our big big bust happened.
He was interviewed by FBI agents.
He corrected their spelling twice because they didn't know how
to spell the words that they were using.
So it was pretty funny.
Yeah, and you know another thought I had you met you mentioned,
you know, Howard Marx's book, Mr.
Nice and how your friend kind of blew him out of the water.
I remember a long time ago when I read his autobiography that
he said that basically his autobiography was full of people
that had been busted and that some of the coolest and biggest
people that he interacted with had never gotten trouble.
So therefore you weren't going to hear anything about them in
his book because they had skated through and nobody knew
about them and he wasn't about to give any tips or ideas.
So he said his book was essentially a collection of people
that had gotten in trouble and that there was many who didn't
and they were invisible.
That's cool.
Well, I can dig it.
My friend who broke his hip and was our pilot friend.
He never got busted and he gave my UK partner the go-ahead
that he would be willing to let him write a book about him
and interview him.
So he's excited about that.
But I said to him you're going to have to follow this guy
because he's all over the world still, you know now he's in
the hospital in Anchorage.
So you could probably get some weeks of talk with him, but
you know, he goes he still goes to Hong Kong and Portugal and
I mean the guy is he's 75 and he got his pilot's license when
he was 15 before he could drive a car and we figured it out
once he stopped keeping a logbook at 10,000 hours and he
said that most TWA pilots never hit 10,000 hours.
Yeah, but literally lives in his plane and then when he went
to Alaska and bought a gold mine, the only way to get to it
was to fly in and out.
So and as you know in Alaska everyone uses planes like cars,
you know, if you live way out in the woods.
So he he owned the airport once in a town that I lived in and
he's just a legend but you're right.
No one really knew about him.
Just like Mr.
Nice is Howard Marks friends because he got into Afghanistan
in the late 60s.
He was importing lapis the deep blue stone.
That's highly valued in Europe and that led to hashish and he
was just sending home a few pounds rolled up in Afghani rugs.
He would just ship them and they would get through back then
they weren't even using dogs really to check stuff in the
late 60s or 1970.
Then his friends slowly, you know move to freighters and they
were sending freighters.
But when the Soviets took over he couldn't go to Afghanistan
any longer.
So he moved over to Peshawar in Pakistan and Peshawar now is
known as the terrorist capital.
I mean, that's where all the terrorists hang out.
Peshawar, but he would he was active over there.
Gosh, I don't know.
I like I said last time I met him in 85 in in he had a house
boat in Sausalito and I met him there and he was visibly shaking
because he was so excited about the 60-ton barge that they
were going to pull across the universe which they did more
than awesome.
That is so awesome.
Wow.
Yep.
Okay now love it and they would go to Canada Canada had he
said they had only like a thousand not even a thousand few
hundred agents in involved in drugs.
So all those West Coast places above Juno in Alaska in that
were perfect.
I mean in Canada along the coastline.
Yeah.
So Canada has much more of a hashish culture than America
did because of that importing and you know, and I think not
only that but it was like the penalties if you got caught
in Canada were far less than the American ones.
It's right, right now and once it reached there it would get
him exported over to the US.
Yeah, and this guy he had a passport.
He paid $10,000 for from the UK in like 1969 or something
and it was a real passport that he was able to have it fixed
with his name on it.
That's off in his photo and he would he would walk across
the border to Canada and then fly from Canada around the
world as a British citizen.
When he was going to Afghanistan and Pakistan.
He wasn't an American.
He was British.
So and then he'd fly back to Canada and walk across the
border into Washington and be and then go back to this
normal life over here man after my own heart.
He also had one of the first phone scramblers.
I've ever seen he bought it from a company in Amsterdam and
you held it up to the phone and the little rubber cups went
over each end and then you talk to the back of it and yeah,
it was used and stuff like that, you know by 1970 1971 very
security conscience fella.
Very smart.
Yep.
Wow, that's fascinating.
So so I was going to say we've kind of wandered off the
mad jag part, but there's one part that like totally totally
enthralled me with the whole story and it was about not
just about the wizard robes or any of that because I find
that so amazing like the pictures of you guys with the
wearing the wizard robes and being very, you know, serious
about all this but how well you treated the land and how
you respected the land and the culture that came before
and in a lot of your writings you talk about even finding
ancient like the ancient petroglyphs but also some items
and stuff that you guys would not take you'd leave it there
because that's where it was and and and leaving nothing not
even footprints behind.
So I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about
the spiritual aspect of magic Canyon.
Well, when we first started exploring it I started from
the bottom up where it flowed into another Canyon which
flowed into another Canyon and that's where I first met
a mountain lion.
I'm pretty sure it was it wasn't a Jaguar, but we came
up with the term, you know, mad Jag that I had come upon
because it was screeching at me in the dark when I was
trying to go to sleep and my God that Canyon when we got
further up the Canyon and found these spots.
We started finding boulders just covered with pictograph.
I mean petroglyphs and in 15 minutes that rock that you
had a photo of let's see.
I'm going to try to find those.
What yeah, we hadn't we had a projectile point and all
these pieces of pottery and we just left him there like
a little little shrine or altar.
Yeah, we also found a cave across from our garden the first
year where I was working with the tall guy and in this
cave was a those are Columbians there.
Well, this is the Columbian.
Yeah, those are all the ones that's as big as they got.
This was close to Thanksgiving this photo.
That's wild.
They they grew huge, but they they just they needed to
get into December in the tropical.
Let's see.
Where's the petroglyphs here?
There we go.
Beautiful.
And we we did these costumes and things thinking that someday
we would do a movie, you know, and that's why we were doing
this and here's the I still have this little arrowhead here,
but we left all the pottery behind and and we found a cave
across from near our first garden that had an arrow shaft
in it.
It had a single yucca fiber.
Moccasin that the ancient people, you know, the made out
of yucca fiber and they were like about half inch thick and
had been chewed up a lot by rat.
But you know, they were obviously in this this cave.
So we just left them there as a little museum.
We put them all in a rock together.
I haven't made it back to it.
I'd love to go back to it.
But we the one thing we didn't do which I regret but it could
still happen was take all of our old hoses out of the Canyon
and the pump.
They're still there.
Yeah.
Oh my God still there.
Oh, yeah, they're tucked under the tree.
We went back in the 90s and the bear had pulled a bunch of
them out.
So we reburied them and pushed them back under and the pump
got hiked out ultimately by someone who wanted to use it.
And that's funny.
This guy was a young stallion man.
He's just strapped that sucker on a single pack frame and
hiked it out himself and we had taken it in two of us on a
pole, you know between us, but he just hiked it out.
Yeah.
So that's so funny.
If you can get it out, you can have it.
What year did that happen?
And he knew you guys before and you guys told him about the
pump existing.
He was this tall guys.
Well done.
Law.
Okay, that makes sense.
Yeah, so he he went in and he worked he came down.
I think at harvest time and help this a bit.
He since left the planet though.
He's much younger than all of us, but he he lived a rough and
tumble life, you know, and he
Yep, he didn't make it but it's it's the spiritual aspect.
I've slept right where he's sitting here a few times next
to the Creek and listen to it flowing by at night.
It was the most fabulous thing in the in talking about dark
skies in 19, you know, late 70s.
The dark skies in Northern Arizona were extensive.
Yeah, Flagstaff was the nearest place and it was I've I spent
400 days out of my life in the bottom of this Canyon and
over a year of my life and it's it's just, you know, it became
like my second home in a way.
I can imagine five years.
We grew for five years in this Canyon and since then it's been
just quiet.
I we every once in a while.
I'll go back and go out on the rim and look down in and more
people are driving in four-wheel drives and razors and little
four by side-by-side vehicles, you know, they're going out on
all these Jeep trails net but they don't know what's down
below because they're not going to get out and hike down
1600 feet.
Just on a hunch and get down there and they wouldn't find
these alluvial Plateaus.
They're just too buried, you know, so well, this magical
time and place.
Yeah, 90 90 feet above the Creek.
You wouldn't there's no trail that would even remotely bump
into it.
So yeah.
Yeah, it was a special place still is I went back there four
years ago looking for this trail that a rancher had made years
ago that came down not far from this original garden and I
couldn't find the trailhead again.
It had grown over so much in 10 years that when I was there
last hunted all over man for hours and hours and I know where
it goes down, but I just couldn't find the trailhead.
So I'm going to go back.
It's strange.
It was it's in a forest fire area that has still not been
reopened and after a fire that was over a year and a half ago
and I'm going to go talk to the Forest Service.
I want to find out why and I have a feeling why is that it's
not about landslides or people getting hurt.
It's exposed so many architecture archaeological spots from
spots from the trees burning and there's all this that there
I think they're afraid of people going out there and plundering
spots.
Yeah, a Canyon we wonder this that was more used and where
the guys from Jerome were using it.
I've seen skulls just laying on the surface where people had
dug to burial sites, you know ancient burial sites.
It's just sad but it goes on.
Yeah, I bet Raiders of the Lost Art.
They did an article in Tempe in the early 80s about guys who
would go out and just look for burial sites and dig them up.
Oh, wow.
And plunder one of them I knew and he got busted got five years
in prison because of you know, each and every.
That's what happens.
I mean ancient grave robbing is something that's been going
on for a long long time and they get they get sold on the
private market to collectors and you know, the origin of you
know, all that it's it's definitely I mean, it's a shame
that it happens, but it seems like it goes on anywhere.
There's ancient humanity that existed.
Oh, yeah.
Egypt.
Come on.
Yeah, Egypt would be the Egypt would be the one of the primary
sources.
Sure.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So I don't know.
I mean we keep this conversation could likely go in a million
different directions.
Yeah, I think so.
And this is going to be like a nine parter.
It could be it would probably be more than just this one part
because we can't touch on everything.
But one of the things I do want to touch on is that one thing
that's like really interesting to Matt and I ourselves is
that you know, some of these, you know, we got a little off
topic on Hayes and you know, and but some of this stuff with
Hayes and skunk one and some of these American strains a lot
of us younger folk our first like legitimate history on them
that we know of comes from when they made their way over to
Holland, right?
And that's when they kind of became famous and started getting
bred with and started getting sold where people could hear
about them.
And then you have people like Rob and Sam and stuff like that
who tell their story, but it's very, you know with historians
or whatever.
It's always cool to get a different perspective from someone,
you know, an alternate source from the same era, right?
And you were talking before about how for a minute there or
for a year or two you were Sam and Rob's biggest customer.
Right?
Yep.
In the sense that you bought you bought something like if I
remember correctly off the top of my head something like
3000 skunk one seeds.
$5,500.
Yep.
Was that 1978 or 1979 something like that?
You said 79 80 and on the back of this if you look at it up
close it says that these were bred for the 1980 in 1980 for
the 1981 season.
Do you still have this back?
Yeah, so you still have that?
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
God and oh my I was telling Rahul yesterday some of the loads
we got from from the cartel in Mexico at a certain point in
1984 roughly 82 to 84.
We would get that we moved our first load so quickly that they
sent us another load that was wasn't meant for us.
It had labels in it from some one in California and I've got
two or three of these labels.
I know you'd like to have them and I'm glad to send I I'm Sam
one of them to Sam collects.
I'm sure he does.
Yeah, he has a great.
He does.
This one this one was it was a Santa Claus in a in a wagon
pulled by horses.
It was in a black.
It's a black and white label.
And then we got another one a different time.
There was someone else's load but because we were moving on
faster, they just sent it to us and it was a raccoon on the
label and it was from Northern California.
And yeah, it was it was funny, but these are the art.
Yeah, these are precious little mementos and I I went to
Amsterdam in 1969 right out of high school.
I went on seven weeks to Europe with a friend and that's the
first place.
I tried to get high.
I was at the club Paradiso and I couldn't I didn't smoke cigarettes.
So I took a big hit of of something and I coughed my lungs.
I couldn't even get it in deep enough to get it.
But to give you an idea of this guy was selling a pound of
Turkish weed for $15.
It was in a shoebox.
A shoebox full was 15 bucks and I have an idea.
Do you think it was like a Turkish ham?
Yeah, it was probably, you know, like bagweed from Turkey.
Yeah, it was that's art brown.
It didn't look good.
But I bought my first chunk of hash and I actually smuggled it
back in 1969.
I was nervous as heck.
Yeah, I didn't actually get high until later in 69 when I went
to college.
That was the first time and I don't know if I had that hash
still then or not, but Denver in 1969 had everything, you know,
Panama Red, Colombian, Mexican, every sort of acid you could
possibly want was being sold it on the hill in Boulder.
So yeah, all you have to do is drive over to Boulder and hang
out.
And was it called all the hill back then?
It was just called the hill.
Just called the hill in Boulder.
Yeah, it was in the next is near the University, but it was
the stretch.
And it's still really works.
Yeah, there's a bookstore at the top where I actually saw Ellen
Ginsberg reading the book.
It was called Brillig works and to Laghi on the hill is still
there.
It's a place where they have live music.
It's a bar with live music.
I saw Lightning Hopkins there and a few other amazing people
so wild.
Yeah, and it opened and I think I have a photo of it in my
Chronicles.
I think in 64 it opened.
Yeah.
I mean I was really a kid then but yeah, so the what what
channel are we on though?
Oh, yeah.
I mean it's funny.
It's so when I went when I was going to Boulder in the 90s it
that Hill was still a place that you could go and buy weed and
acid.
It had transformed and it was called it was called Hippie Hill.
Nice, right then and it was still a spot that you could go
and yeah, you could get obviously the week the you know, the
type of weed had changed but the ability to go there and meet
someone and score a bag of weed and you know, the cops sort
of tolerated it and tolerated a little bit of trade going on
there or whatever.
So it's a I didn't realize how early that had started because
at that point by the time that I had been going which was the
mid 90s late 90s.
It would have been ongoing that then for 30 some years.
Right, but what the the thread we were on is I would love to
know and I'm sure Matt would too what Rob or Sam told you
about their skunk one lines like, you know, aside from the
descriptions and stuff like that like what they told you
about what was in them or why they were excited about them.
What got you excited about them to buy so many and then what
your experience was like actually growing them in terms of
like what they grew like what they smelled like were they
superior to the Mexicans you were growing anything like that
would be probably wonderful to chat about.
Well, I met Rob through high times.
He was he wrote articles a few and yeah at the end of the
article.
He always put something like if you want to if you're interested
in any of the things I wrote about are these seeds you can
contact me through the magazine.
So I wrote a letter to high times to Rob and I put my phone
number in there and he called me up and that's how we hooked
up because the the first year I grew skunk.
I had already had two years actually three years of growing
before that but the year before I made enough money that I
could afford I when I saw and heard his description and other
people's of skunk number one.
I just went this is what I wanted to grow something that has
a reputation and and these guys are breeders in a book on botany
for Christ's sake so he I said, yeah, I want to get 3,000 seeds.
There were two bucks a piece and he knocked it down to 175 and
he flew to Phoenix deliver them to me because you're not going
to put that in the mail back then.
Yeah, and what I mean put 500 in the mail and no, so he flew
it.
We met at the airport Sky Harbor drove him up to Cottonwood
where I lived.
He stayed a few days and I gave him 5,500 in cash and he was
super happy.
I'm sure when he came up.
He had this little on the zip case that he pulled out of his
jacket and he had he had pre-rolled joints of tie of Colombian
of Oaxacan of skunk number one and hit and he was standing
there and he gave me one hit of something in my living room
and I was laying on the floor after that and he was just
standing there talking away smoking the rest of the whole
joint and he said, oh, but you got to try this ties this time
strain and I've never I my friend in Scottsdale who I mean
in Tempe who is the dealer he can smoke like that my Colombian
friend for sure.
He started smoking when he was 7 in Cali Columbia, but my
friend in Tempe he would roll 10 hash joints pin joints.
Yeah, just crumpled up hash and smoke them in a day's time
in a hundred degree driving a tractor.
That was his motivation just chain smoke hash joints.
She he's in Rob Rob was pretty much like that.
So I I don't remember him describing to me what skunk was
like it was what I read in high times that it just this skunky
smell and it was going to be also have some exotic strains
in it.
The original skunk number one didn't have Indian, you know,
the Kerala India in it.
Yeah, it was just three countries.
I think right Colombian Mexican Afghan.
Yep.
It was just those three and I had smoked each of those
individually, but the fact that this was a hybrid that was
so potent and everything.
I don't know what I had read.
I have all those old high times magazines.
I have the first high times.
I have the first black belt magazine.
I collect all kinds of weird shit.
I love that too.
Yeah, and memorabilia will get into that.
I'll send you some things.
You just let me know but the Afghani number one.
I did get a few from him as a gift.
I think from buying all the skunk and it's funny because
this says Afghani Hindu Kush has she seeds.
I noticed his label and yet on the back.
He says this is skunk number one and I have one of these
envelopes with Afghani number one.
Yeah, so it's kind of you know, and he also has in letters
here extra early.
So yeah, I was reading it and it actually is a description
for a pure Afghani is what it is.
Like the whole thing is a description for a pure
unadulterated Afghani, but then it says skunk one right
there.
These envelopes had two giant horse caps with 50 seeds in
each one.
So there were hundred seeds in two big gelk.
I mean cellulose caps.
Yeah, he'd get 50 seeds in each one and I don't know what
happened to the many many of these very different people
over the years wanted one and I gave him one and my sure I
think my my UK partner still has several.
I don't know how else to Rob came down to our garden once
and that's when he said he was amazed that we could grow
out of dirt.
Yeah, never seen Arizona plants.
I don't think before and we average 6.8 ounces across our
entire garden per plant which roughly almost a half a pound
per plant which growing in the dirt.
Yeah, he said he was used to two three four pound plants
in Northern California, you know up in that black soil, but
there's a there's a there's a volume, you know thing to
and like plant numbers and so in Northern California, I
mean some people went crazy but a lot of times people tried
to maximize how much they could get per plant to not get
you know, so if they did get in trouble in Northern California,
it would be for less plants.
That was a big thing.
So it's way way easier and I think you get better weed.
Growing up six or seven or eight ounce plant versus a four
or five or six pound plant, but numbers did play a role at
least in Northern California where I'm from.
Well, we were in very cold water country.
Did they what were the type of aromas that you got off
the skunk one that first year you grew?
It was very it was very skunky.
No, you know the smell of a skunk when you drive over it
on the highway.
It was that exact.
No, it we were we were stupefied by it.
Actually.
We were went this is incredible and it didn't smell like
that growing so much.
But when you when it was harvested the flowers dried and
you crush, you know a flower and it was skunk smell and
it was pretty damn potent.
We rolled a joint once and went to this topless Club called
the highlighter that we liked in Phoenix and one of the two
of the dancers we went in the ladies bathroom with two of
the dancers and we each had one puff.
That's all before we got busted by another dancer who came
in and was in charge at night said you guys have to get out
of here.
And so we went and sat down the ladies.
I think they had one puff each more.
It was they were these were New York needles.
We called them or pin joints where you had to really you
know, just to get a hit and we were sitting there and they
came out of the bathroom.
They walked around the bar.
They're laughing and they smiled at us and then they walked
right into a table knocked it over all the drinks went over
they felt in the ground themselves and we were just sitting
there laughing they was they had never been that high in
their life and we found out later that they were scared
almost but but you know in 1980 or 81 there was you know,
we'd already smoked this since Amiya from Santa Barbara
that was very piney and I'm and there was Thai weed around
and other things but for some reason this thing packed a
punch really quite a punch and I don't know how people would
rate it today compared to all these, you know, chem dogs
and and all the other varieties that people bred up to 35%
THC or whatever they're at now.
But as you know, the entourage effect is what counts the
total package, you know, the terpenes the bioflavonoids everything
everything someone said that the test on an original Afghani.
I mean skunk number one was it was only like 14% or 15% THC.
Yeah, most of the stuff I like falls in between 8 to 18.
Yeah, so all the other ingredients the terpenes perhaps that
skunky terpene profile and other things really added up.
It's really nice to have another account that isn't from Rob
or Sam about skunk one having that same smell even back then
because it's been heavily debated for a long time whether
that was true that skunk one had that smell or if it never
had roadkill.
Yeah.
Yeah, because but the stuff that got sold in Europe, it sounds
like Rob and Sam or maybe Sam only kept breeding away from
that aroma.
And so eventually it became very floral very citrus, maybe
a little cheese, maybe some grapes, but people have been
hunting for that skunky smell in skunk one seeds ever since
and yet it seems like it existed in the 70s and the early
80s and then it kind of went away and he maybe they successfully
breaded out of the line into entirely because people have
really hunted through skunk one trying to find recessives that
are a throwback to what you just described.
Hey, not so so I I moved out to NorCal to grow for a season
and it was 1985 and when I first arrived in Ukiah, I had taken
a Greyhound bus and my instructions were to meet my new
partners at the laundromat which was near the airport and the
bus station.
I guess I'm not sure I that's that parts a little fuzzy, but
I'll never forget, you know arriving in Ukiah getting off the
bus and as I'm walking towards the laundromat, you know,
following the instructions I've been given the entire town
smelled like skunk the entire town.
I mean, why everywhere I walked and I I had to wait for a couple
of hours.
So after a while I got bored of standing around waiting for
my buddy to drive down off the mountain and and you know,
pick me up.
So I I walked around a little bit the whole town smelled just
like, you know, roadkill, you know people confuse the rotting
flesh roadkill part with a look when a skunk gets hit on the
side of the road.
You don't smell anything but the skunk.
Right?
It's not about rotting anything.
Yes.
No.
Yeah, it's just that sulfurous, you know, it's just been
smashed.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I live about 15 minutes from I can be in Ukiah in about 15
minutes from my house.
Yeah, beautiful.
Beautiful.
You said 85.
That's the part of where did you go?
First year.
Do you remember what part of Mendocino you grew in?
Do you remember where you were?
Now 1985 was the influx like the major major influx of
Indica's into that region.
I mean there of course there were some, you know, making
their way bits and pieces throughout the 70s and whatnot.
The 85 was like the smash year for Indica's right out in
that area.
So it makes sense a shitload of skunk would be in that town.
You know, the Indica's that I grew in in 81 and 82.
Were from NorCal from you Ukiah and you know, the the the
towns around there and they were picked up by a friend of
mine who was hitchhiking around there for like two years
and every time he'd he'd, you know, get picked up.
He would offer to you know, would you like hey, I've got
some weed.
Do you want to smoke one?
And everybody always said yes, but they said, you know,
let's not smoke yours here.
Go in the glove compartment and let's let's smoke some of
mine and he'd pull out the bag and here you roll it and
we'll smoke it.
And as he rolled there were always a few seeds in there
and he'd ask him if he could keep them.
Yeah.
So my guy.
Yeah.
I mean my my my first interaction with Indica was, you
know, Christmas 81.
He came back from California to to visit and he had a
collection of like six different Afghanis and a story
to go with each one.
Like there was one that he called Ranger weed and he'd
he'd smoked this weed with a forest Ranger like and this
guy had and it was I swear to it was it was what I think
where Afghani number one came from.
It was a very coarse, you know, Afghani with kind of a
candelabra style, you know, tech there was another one.
He called Plain weed and this was on his on his way home.
He he at SFO.
He was walking through the parking lot and there's a guy
sitting in a Corvette convertible smoking weed, right?
And he walked up and he gives him the look, you know, and
I don't know if he, you know, held up his finger like hey,
can we smoke and the guy invited him to join him in the
car and you know, he got a couple of seeds out of that
encounter.
Also that turned out to be an F1 tie Afghani hybrid, which
was just amazing and I knew what exactly what it was because
I had grown pure tie the year before.
Yeah, right.
So I had these pure Afghanis and I had this I'd had pure
tie the year before and this stuff was just right in the
middle.
It was a 50-50 cross and you know, I used to sit there and
make notes about, you know, I'd sit and smoke it and write
down the the effects and the taste and compare it with other
stuff and just amazing.
You still have the notebooks, right?
Yeah, I do.
Yeah, that when you first told me that you've kept these
notebooks like on Scents and stuff.
I was like man, this guy's gonna be my best friend.
I'm telling you.
This is amazing.
Like it's just it's it's only a certain type of people that
really get this far into weed.
I think and and I a lot of us think it has something to do
with being on the spectrum, you know, because we we get so
far into something so many people are just like it's just
weed smoking and we're like so much more.
One of the one of the one of the cool parts about doing
this these chats that Matt and I do is like the realization
that like the vast majority of our history is oral.
Right?
It's very little of it is very little of it is written down,
you know, and as people age.
That was evidence, right?
Yeah.
Yeah, it was evidence.
And then so there's all these cool stories out there and
there's all these bits and pieces like Matt had mentioned
there was great debate like was Sam and Rob lying about how
skunky it was in the beginning and you know, because by the
time they took skunk one to Amsterdam, it was fruity and
citrusy and floral and all that and so, you know, these
these stories and stuff from from the region and what things
were like is a big deal because now people look at me and
you know, I'm only in my mid 40s, you know, but people think
I'm old as fuck and like they want to hear like my stories
from the 90s, but your guys's stories from the 70s and 80s
are like a full generation before that.
Are these old mad jag notebooks?
Yep.
Oh my God.
That's amazing.
And your handwriting is so much better than mine.
It's just that I live with the bus.
I print everything.
Yep.
I print.
You know, they made it through the busts like the but like
when you guys did get busted, they didn't go after the
notebooks and stuff.
Not so those afees came in and in like 1980, 81, not 85 and
I grew I grew mine in 81 and 82 and I was the only one in
pretty practical, you know that anybody in I knew that had
this stuff right?
Yeah it that year the very next year.
All of my friends had their own a fee right that they've
gotten from different sources from wherever, you know, I
mean 83 everybody had it.
It was making its way around the country probably through
deadhead, you know dead shows and stuff like that.
Let me ask you a question about that.
Then a lot of the old heads have said that, you know, have
told me that like basically like Mendocino and humble.
It was almost pure sativa and people really like the buzz
and the flavor and the effect and they said one of the big
things that drove Indica's popularity was when in 81 when
they started flying helicopters in my neck of the woods, right?
Getting something that would finish in September or early
October was a lot safer than something that took till
Thanksgiving and was this giant thing, right?
Yeah, and so that started spreading it because police
pressure and hiding it and all that became more important
Indica's were shorter and squatter but a lot of people
told me that they didn't like the buzz as much maybe you
can could you talk for a minute about your experiences versus
the the Mexicans and the ties and the Colombians and all
those you were growing versus like smoking Indica's at first
and like what the differences were and what your preferences
were. Yeah, you know, I mean and today what people think
of as Indica usually is some sort of hybrid because the
there were pure Indica's back then that had a very sedative
effect without making your brain fuzzy.
Right? I mean it was calming.
Yeah.
Yeah calming and peaceful and kind of dreamy but it didn't
give you that, you know that that that just you know, the
count what we you know, couch lock is not just a body effect.
It's a stunned mental effect, right? Where your brain just
kind of seizes up, you know, it's like distortion on a guitar.
Exactly.
So you don't have to have that to have that body effect and
most of what we experience today with that distortion with
that with that fuzz comes, you know, it's usually got a lot
of power to it.
Right?
So some of these pure a fees would have would have actually
been just kind of this just who slows it down, right?
Peaceful very high amazing taste, right?
Just like just like pure hash tasted exactly like hash, you
know, and at its best right but without that that that inability
to think you might be slowed down but you could still you
know, follow a train of thought and eventually get there but
with and I think that you know skunk as it originally existed
before Sam got it and and hybridized it and use the name
for the new thing that he created which was no longer what
what it was named after.
Yeah, if anybody can follow that.
Blueberry is the same to me.
It's exactly the same.
I want to let you finish your thought but I'm going to I'm
going to come back to that to a part of what you just said in
a moment, but but please finish your thought.
So I mean, you know skunk was very was very Afghani dominant
back when it first came out and it was it hits you like like
like a sledgehammer, you know mentally it just stunned you
you couldn't think you you were just you were just seized up
and I think that you know, what we think about is Afghanis
these days a fees Indica's whatever, you know, the chem line
is definitely, you know got hybridization going there with
some kind of skunk which gives it, you know, a combination
that the extra power and the mental kind of sledgehammer
that you know, a lot of people like so contrasting, you know,
you you went into this with talking about what people used
to grow up there in the mountains and as you were as you
were just talking about it.
I was picturing Jim Richardson's book, you know, since Amelia
flowers, right and the garden that he photographed in there
and took it through the the phases of fluorescence and
documented it just so beautifully, you know, I first saw
that book and I guess 82 or 83.
My buddy had brought it back for me and said that it was on
every coffee table in Northern California.
It had the Big Sur Holyweed and Dolores and all kinds of
special plants in there that weren't labeled and a lot of
people don't know that that that's the original Big Sur
Holyweed and the tripweed and yeah, NorCal had had spent
years, you know refining these imported sativa lines to turn
them into things that would finish in the season that they
had there and you know, selective breeding for quality and
Yield and and and finish time, you know things that would
work in the in the environment you had there and it was,
you know, you would you'd created something just as just as
special as anything from Hawaii right as unique and special
and those those lines.
I think the last thing that we you know on the market today
of somebody would go out and look for seeds that they could
grow that would be similar to that or would at least give
them, you know, Rick a hint of what it used to be would be
if they could find a good early Pearl.
Yeah, that's what's up.
Right because you can still taste the Mexican in there and
the effects still have that it's still there.
Yes.
There's an aphi thrown in there and aphi or two and the mixture
of you know, different sativas, but but the sweet Neville
called it the Awoken Zing.
Mm-hmm, right?
And it's it's a you know, when grown as a sense of Milo by
it by a gardener who loves what he's doing, you know, small
numbers and pampered and cared for it's it's so tasty and
delicious that there's hardly anything that can come close.
Yeah, I'm a sucker for the silver Pearl still but I you
know, I really want early girl because that's one that I've
never ran but early Pearl was a big favorite in San Diego to
amazing stuff.
Yeah.
So those, you know early girl and Pollyanna were, you know,
from that that era and from that region and they were some
of the some of those early hybrids when when the first
aphi showed up and they said well, wow, this is the greatest
thing ever, you know, can you imagine growing a couple of
these things in your garden and never seeing anything like
it falling in love with the hash and the first thing you're
going to do is you're going to say I'm going to take this
new thing, which is the best thing ever and cross it with
the best thing that I've spent the last 10 years making.
Yeah, right.
That's exactly the first thing you're going to do.
Right?
Yep.
And that's what in Mendo you kind of have till Halloween
or maybe the first week of November if you get lucky of
a good chance of reasonably good weather and not too much
rain and then the cold and the rain and the weather starts
to turn so breeding breeding and Mendo and Humboldt, you
know, you kind of have to have some Halloween weed at the
latest maybe some early November, but you really can't
like trying to push things full outside till Thanksgiving.
It's gets really dicey.
Yeah, very dicey real quick guys.
So we've made it through episode one because we're already
hitting the two-hour mark and it makes me stop at two hours.
So I want to get in any kind of plug you guys want to get
in before the end of it and I definitely want to do an
episode two if you guys are up for it next week or whenever
it's convenient for you both of you.
That would be amazing.
Yeah, thumbs up.
Yeah, I've enjoyed our chatting today.
Immense amazing.
Amazing.
Actually, it's been really cool.
I hope that it can continue maybe even off-channel a bit.
There's a million things I could talk about.
I'm intrigued at all of the memorabilia for sure.
And the experience I used to drool.
I mean Sam used to post on overgrown the breeders breed
on, you know, the breeders segment back then in the forums
a lot of those old-school pictures and stuff like that
and art that would get made with certain kinds of people's
weed and that that whole like sort of like pre-marketing of
anonymous growers was super neat and just so yeah, there's
a million directions we could go but as Matt said, we only
have four minutes before it'll cut us off.
So Mad Jag, we have you at madjag.com.
Is there anything else you'd like to talk about before we're
wrapping up anywhere people can contact you or get a hold
of you or any of it?
What do we have here?
This is beer.
This year's.
It's a smaller one.
It's Santa Marta gold crossed with Acapulco gold and it's
pretty much a good friend of mine in California made the
F1 and it's gotten good reviews.
What's the name for it?
What do you call it Jim?
Oh, well, I had a couple people test it that I trust that
smoke all day long that live in Sedona and I said, well, what
is it on a scale of 10 and they said 9.3.
I said, well, good.
I'll call it 9.3.
Yeah.
So instead of some fancy, you know, airplane cookies or
whatever.
I love it.
Yeah.
The next week have any questions you have you could have them
ready.
I have.
Yeah, I did my own little pre.
No, this is stuff.
We've got like I said, we have a pretty free-flowing thing and
so it can head off in all kinds of different directions and
sometimes we get to pick up on threads of things.
We hear and pull on that thread and hear more and other times
there's definitely things we didn't pull on that.
I would love to in the future.
So and rock.
Wow.
Do you have anything you want to get in?
Yeah, I just like to say, you know, first of all big big props
for your discord channel.
No, thank you.
Really.
Thank you.
You know, you guys threw us in there to kind of organize and
prepare for this meeting and your community there is great.
The people man.
We've been lucky.
Good people very responsive and you know, a lot of good information
and knowledge up there.
So just props props to that and thank you for for letting us
be part of that.
I'm not besides that nothing, you know, I'm just into this for
the love and I'm looking forward to doing it the next time.
So yeah, well, I appreciate I appreciate the hell out of both
of you for your time all the love you've put into cannabis.
I mean, it's you guys are the reason that we are here digging
into the past while we're why we are doing what we're doing.
So thank you for laying that foundation for us.
I truly mean that and I can say from myself while I love talking
about weed with different people.
I'm leaving this conversation particularly excited.
Yeah, I mean I had a real good time chatting about this.
So it was very enjoyable.
Thank you both very much for your time.
Me too.
Let's make the people out there jealous and just say let's keep
talking after after we finish the recording.
You got it.
All right.
All right.
I'm going to start the outro and then I'm going to remove us
from the thing.
But after it's done recording, I'll pop us back in.
Got it.
Okay.
I'm here.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you everyone.
That's a shot got got dude her skirt from up north or kind of
on it.
You need a pull one can I pull mine?
Thank you.
Thank you.
You.
Thanks.
Thanks a lot guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
See you for more stuff in the meantime.
Bye.
Until next time.
Bye.
Bye.
Take care.
Guys.
Bye.
Bye.
Goodbye.
Don't let the drugs kill you when they've helped.
Yeah, you never got carried away.
