Welcome to Breeder Syndicate 2.0 where we explore the history of a clandestine scene.
Researching everything from cannabis strain history, old smuggling tales from
the first-person perspective, to breeding science and news on current subculture.
I'm your host Matthew and I'll occasionally be joined by my homie NotSoDog,
breeder and grower from Mendocino, to speak on these subjects and sometimes
interview other participants. Our goal is to document this history before it's
written by corporations and others who just weren't there. Let's start righting
some wrongs. Welcome to the underground.
We joined this conversation already in progress and it kind of ends abruptly too.
So yeah, let's get to it.
We tend to be on like meth head hours which sucks because like you don't want to
have that in common with them but at the same time it's like realistically light
hours are cheaper for an indoor grower at night. So like a lot of us live on
vampire hours and that's just how it goes and if you're keeping moms you also don't get to travel.
And after 10 p.m. neighbors don't stop by randomly.
Yeah exactly.
It's safe to go get in your grow room and smell like weed.
Exactly dude. Yeah, yeah. I mean it's funny because you know I would imagine from the
outside and I've always kind of looked at it like I wonder what my neighbors
think because like they see this this young man who like barely ever leaves
the house never leaves on trips. Never. You know and is up at all these odd
hours like they must think of a tweaker and that's just the only conclusion.
Well nowadays you can say you work online and that's normal but back
in the day 20 years ago. We couldn't use that excuse.
That's hella sassy 20 years ago right?
For sure.
So I'm here with Jay from Next Generation Seeds formerly of Federation Seeds and who is with you?
My friend Casey. He's been growing other than growing his own death bubble for years.
He's been working with different LPs, big companies in Canada doing a lot of the
paperwork and doing the extractions. A few different LPs up here.
He's the guy I call when I need to make bubble.
Oh nice. I love me some good bubble. Gotta go over some bubble tech.
That's one thing we have not covered at all on this show is hash bubble hash tech.
I mean that's the shit.
Yeah I've been that's one thing with growing seeds.
You always have lots of samples of different hashes.
It's insane the number of different grades and actually I have a box right here.
Random.
Just every different strain you could think of.
Different samples.
Let's go through them. Let's go through and hear what kind of strains that you have over there in hash form.
Because it gives us a good idea of what's going on over in your territory as far as the strains currently that you're into.
As you know with different types of hash.
Some are really good for for pressing for rosin and some just like dump the resin or just sticky right away.
And then some no matter how good it is.
It just it won't press it'll still always look kind of golden but it won't actually get slippery.
So it'll get like classy all every all the way through.
Yeah but I'm really happy with one of the strains I've done lately my red truffles.
Okay what's in this?
So it's it's the truffle strain crossed with the Colombian red.
Oh nice.
And when you put that in your hand and just it just goes like a slick plastic with it within seconds.
Oh man.
It's an amazing amazing strain and I've actually got a lot more of it going on on the next round here.
So but yeah we're gonna do some fresh frozen as well.
Oh.
But when we can.
Yeah but 90% of my crop is usually done for seed so it's usually dry.
I know a dry sieve but the dry sieve just you know some strains are pretty powdery.
The grape god even though it's one of the sweetest ones it just doesn't get slick and slippery.
Does it is that one more sandy?
Is that like a sandy type resin on the grape god?
Yeah it is yeah a lot of dry sandy.
Yeah it it's not like actually the old sweet tooth was the same thing no matter how great sweet tooth was and be white and pure it just wouldn't stick together.
Whereas the BC Kush would just melt in your hands.
But the sweet tooth was a lot nicer tasting but it didn't look as good for uneducated buyers so.
It is wild how differently certain strains will wash versus impress versus others like you know for example there's the cookies and cream and stuff like that has that same sandy type resin.
When I think of purples like purple punch they have that same sandy type resin you know so when you said grape god I was thinking that that super purpley type resin I work that similar to the purple punch which is super sandy.
Yeah and a larger resin heads I recently got a new camera for doing macro shots.
Oh nice.
It was neat to see all the different strains and the size of the different heads and just you know before we had these good cameras we just never never got to see that.
No and it's kind of cool to be able to.
Sandy versus the greasy right is like your stock to head ratio and what you're harvesting makes a huge difference right.
So I was talking with one of my buddies and this is kind of a random tangent but it just it just sort of hit me and he was over in where was it he was in it's either Thailand or India and they were talking about the land races out there how they don't have as much.
It says they the farmers were saying that they look more resinous but they don't have as much heads per square centimeter square meters square millimeter whatever it is.
And for that reason the quality has gone down that was that was their explanation for the why the quality has gone down so far in it was in Milano.
So I was wondering is there any does that even make sense.
I don't know as a non hash guy or non hash maker is that.
Yeah I'm not a big hash guy too but I can tell you what I see from my own strains.
Like yeah some of them have much larger heads and smaller stocks but there's some strains that they're almost all stocks on the on the tricones and just tiny little heads on it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah but but Casey's the professional on that.
You're looking for those big heads and like fire in fire out you know like yes the better the quality you're putting in when you're harvesting that low quality plant matter you're going to get other that automatically comes along with that.
And if you only have a little bit of this and a little bit of this here what you get at the end is isn't the quality right.
You want to get a lot of that and clean a little bit out of this right.
It's funny because like people people ask that about breeding like you know it are our fem seeds better than reg seeds.
Do you find that they're more potent.
Is this hash better and it's just like literally you can break it down to shit in shit out.
You put in shit you get shit you put in good quality and that is it.
Whether it's fem seeds whether it's anything when it comes to cannabis good quality gets you good quality.
Yeah.
I've never noticed a difference between quality between the regulars and fems.
You know obviously I do my breeding with the regulars.
Yeah.
Fem are just to grow out for people to grow.
But you know but there is some breeders out there who I don't know if they just don't know any better or they don't care.
There is that that actually breed with feminized seeds.
And I'm still I may maybe it's bro science or I don't know but still breed with feminized seeds.
Everything's got to be selected.
All my moms are selected from regulars.
Most of the clone only's in today's California market are not even California's the US market.
All of the clone only's in fact were found via feminized or bag seeds or you know like accidents whether it's sour OG any of the cookie stuff anything modern at all all came from it.
So it's just one of those things that over time I think that was definitely a way that people thought at the beginning was like use regs to breed because at least you know you get that extra chromosome and you know you're not breeding out the female chromosome whatever.
But over time we realized oh it's just it's just that chromosome is there and it's a different it's autosomes taking course over sexual chromosomes.
And that's just kind of where it's fit.
So it's it.
There's not really any.
It's the same kind of thing.
Shit in shit out.
So if it's a plant that naturally herms a lot and will constantly kick herms of itself it's probably going to breed a lot of herms into it and intersects into its future.
But if it's something that happens just very rarely an errant one you know then it's a lot easier to breed with that.
Well I can't do anything that shows any herms I tend to just toss right away.
Yeah.
But there is a few strains here and there that maybe spit out a little banana at the end.
But I really don't have any except for I have one different phenol of a purple pine berry that I don't really sell.
But but yeah it got the last week or so it puts a little banana but they're always sterile.
But the bugs are so beautiful and big it's hard for me to toss that mom.
See as a as a seed maker it's hard right.
Because like we see all these other qualities that are in plants that have nothing to do with their sex traits sexual traits like they can have the most amazing resin production.
We want it. We want to carry that trade on right.
Like we want to use that. But we know that if people buy those seeds and they find that intersex trait they may not have that same like compassion for intersex traits that we have.
So we just can't work with it. We just cannot have it in our rooms.
No it's a seed company you can't be selling people things that go herm and yeah because there's a lot there's a lot of newbies out there and and they usually fuck up on a few different things here and there.
So that's something I really haven't had much of a problem with.
Yeah. As far as hermaphrodites or mutants even with I make my feminized with STS.
Yeah. Yes it was. And yeah I had no problems like people say like with the with the other methods of making seeds sometimes there's a few Hermes or they're not 100 percent female.
Yeah. With my formula of the STS I've had I've had no basically no issues for about 10 years now.
You're dealing with a lot of really really stable stock as far as like uniformity because their lines you've worked.
When I noticed a lot of the intersex issues pop up is when it's newer lines that are unworked like you know doing a hybrid between two brand new crazy polyhybrids like animal mints cross to I don't know cherry truffle butthole.
You know like you could you cross those two. Then there's like all this parentage below.
So all these possibilities of plasticity come out and intersex traits are bound.
You know like that's the way I look at it. And if you're if you if you've worked lines already worked out those intersex traits and you're feminizing yourself then they're going to be pretty frickin stable.
And they're going to have a lot less phenos popping up. It's going to be more true to what people want from that product.
You know. Yeah. What they expect. Yeah. When they go to your site.
Well a lot of my strains are I've been working with for 25 years and I haven't read them out to anything else.
But obviously here and there I bring in new like like the red truffles I brought in because it was just so impressive.
Sure. But yeah I bring in new stuff here and there but it has to pass a few tests to get into the yeah into my mother room.
So what kind of what kind of tests are there like talk about some of your qualifications for bringing.
Well basically it's got a. Well as we said last time on the show. Flavors is the number one thing for me. The terpene levels. It's got to taste really really good from start to finish on that joint.
That's number one for me before plant structure before anything. It's the terpenes and the flavor.
Yeah. Right now actually one of the ones I've been really pleased with is our blue dynamite. Yeah.
And I brought I brought that back way back in 2007. It was all over high times and I won a few awards with it.
But I just recently brought it back and we grew out a big batch of it and I selected five different phenols that that I wanted to rejuvenate.
Yeah. And master clones are out. But after I grow the seedlings I picked my favorites rejuvenate them and then try them as a clone before I make my final selection.
And try the samples of each one. Send them in for some tests. Back in the day we weren't able to send them in for tests. They didn't exist. But now nowadays nowadays we get to do that.
But before the numbers comes the flavor.
I sometimes I don't care if it's only 20 percent and not 24. Yeah. If it tastes better.
Yeah.
And I found it's a high. Yeah. If the terpenes are high you don't notice those lower numbers as much.
It's true. And yeah. People people drink wine and not ever clear for a reason. It's not always about how number is. It's about how you enjoy it.
Exactly. And for me like when it comes to smoking taking the edge off is like 99 percent of the time. That's all I want to do is take the edge off. Not.
Yeah. Yeah. Inhibit. I don't want to be cross eyed and confused and walk into walls.
Yeah. I have to be able to function.
Yeah. There are times when that's very appropriate. You know. Yeah. And other times most the time I have to run a company and stuff and it's like.
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. I have some of that. I don't know if you can tell on the camera but man this is the latest batch. The cross I have now.
It's a really good outdoor strain but purple. I don't think you can tell that.
Oh yeah. Now you can't quite see it. Yeah. OK.
You know we just had we had a big breeders meet up about I think two months ago now.
And one of the strains that came in was blue dynamite. Someone really a big like really nice outdoor batch of blue dynamite. It was really good.
I was it was very grapefruit dominant. Super sweet pink grapefruit. Super. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. I wasn't.
I crossed the original berry fruit. So yeah that makes sense. And I was like well you know it's grapefruit. Maybe I won't get too baked but I mean I was baked.
It did a damn good job. I mean like I don't smoke a lot of outdoor because I've always been an indoor grower and it's not a big outdoor scene where we're at in Bakersfield because it's so hot.
Nobody grows outdoor that much. So I don't get to try outdoor often and I wasn't I wasn't expecting to be floored but it was really good. It's decent stuff.
That's good. Yeah. Yeah. A lot of our strains people people tend to really like our strains for outdoors because because a lot of the hardiness we have from the mold resistance on the West Coast.
Vancouver Island it is raining all the time. So in the first 10 12 years of my my breeding career was all on the island where it's everything is just humidity is through the roof.
So yeah mold resistance is something I always you know sometimes by accident but it's something you select for. Yeah. The Mendo growers love it.
And I know a lot of East Coast growers lately that hit me up. The one thing I've been telling them is just like dude you like everybody everybody that I know in Mendo that is in like more humid situations.
They all grow. They grow next gen seeds like they all do. So I've been I've been recommending that for East Coast growers. They're like man my situation is so humid.
Well I got you know this is a great solution. People that have bred in this kind of climate great strains good quality strains for this climate. This is what people need to be thinking about not.
I wish people would think more about that as opposed to what's hype. What will work good for me in my area. I think that would solve a lot for a lot of people and their issues.
I've noticed that too. We've got a lot of feedback in the last few years here for outdoor growers even with our auto flowers but also with our some of our other outdoor varieties like the Avalon, Blue Dynamite, Time Warp.
Strains that were bred on the West Coast tend to be way way better for mold resistance.
You can finish them in those hills. You can finish them in Tarrant Hill Grove.
I have a colleague of mine Ron Harrington with Golden Hat Seeds. He's originally from Oregon State. And it's very rainy and humid there just like it is in Canada on the West Coast.
And he breeds a few auto flowers as well. And last year on his farm he did a bunch of his own varieties obviously and my Grapefruit Haze and my Dynamite.
Alongside Ethos Seeds a few auto flowers from them and a few other American companies that aren't from a humid climate and all of the American strains molded.
Yeah, that sounds about right.
And mine, my Grapefruit Haze was sitting in the middle of a bunch of moldy buds and all mine, not a drop of butridis.
That's awesome.
Yeah, and it was a pretty wet year last year. So, but yeah, that's one thing that people don't realize if you're on the, if you're growing outdoors or on the East Coast a lot especially.
They'd really like the more moldy stuff because they get more rain than you guys do down in California.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
So what's Next Generation working on currently? Like where are you guys at? What other than the Red Truffles?
What are some of your directions you're wanting to take the company?
Yeah, I've got my Avalon strain which is the tough hardy outdoor strain. We've got some CBD in it now. We've crossed it out to a Spanish CBD strain that I crossed it with and I did a few back crosses now.
So we have a good Avalon CBD. It's about 20% THC and about 4% CBD.
Is Avalon one of the more grapefruity ones?
It's originally, it's the very first strain I ever bred back in, was it 1996 I believe.
Okay.
And it's an Afghani hash plant crossed with a blueberry.
That's what it was, the hash plant blueberry. That's right.
Yeah, so, but years and years of selective breeding outdoors. I did all my selections outdoors on the West Coast.
So it became really, really hardy. Finishes about the end of September.
And you can put up with a lot of wind and a lot of rain. And just add some strain, a big windstorm, it'll just play it over. But the Avalon's standing up straight. You can put up with that.
I bet. It's that hardy breeding dude.
And the other one, while we're actually working on our first contact strain, I'm doing a big pheno hunt on that.
The mother is a one-to-one CBD THC strain. But I've outcrossed that now to my Romulan.
Oh, wow.
So we're testing that out right now. It's in the catalog.
I'm going to dig that.
What's that one called?
First Contact.
First Contact. Okay.
Yeah, I kind of recommend that to beginner smokers because it's a little bit lower THC, and the CBD is really high.
But the terpene levels on that strain are through the roof.
That's awesome.
It's just really, really stinky and branchy. It branches out like crazy.
It's always a give and take a little bit when it comes to quality in terpenes, right?
It's almost a little bit of give and take.
It's very rare that you see something in the high, high testing range with high, high, high terpene percent.
It's very rare. It can happen more often than not.
Yeah, you're right about that.
I noticed that with my Grapefruit Diesel strain, which is the highest terpene levels I've ever recorded, just over 5%, which is extremely rare.
That's high, yeah.
That's extremely high.
But the THC level is only like 16 or 17.
Yeah.
But it's still my favorite to smoke, one of my favorites.
Yeah, it's one of my two.
Yeah, and everybody smokes it and just loves it because you're tasting that flavor right down to the roach.
Yeah.
And everything I cross it with tends to have about 2.5%, 3% terpene level.
That's nice.
So I've been playing with that quite a bit, yeah.
What kind of terps is it coming out with mostly?
You know what? I can't honestly – I can't really say honestly.
Yeah, I don't remember what the grapefruit one is.
It's been a while. I just did a new selection for a new mother, so I haven't sent that one in for testing yet.
Yeah.
I rarely get to do testing just because I'm so cheap that I just don't.
But I get customers that aren't as cheap as me, and every once in a while you get those cool customers.
Yeah, we get a lot of feedback too.
Yeah, we get a lot of feedback too.
We get a lot of feedback too because over the last few years we've been selling a lot of seeds to some of the big LPs here.
Yeah.
And they do the tests on it, and they give us the feedback.
That's awesome. That's amazing to be able to get that much feedback back in big pots.
Yeah, it's always neat listening to all the customers getting back to us after they grow out a crop.
And the good reports, the bad reports, we've got to hear it all.
Yeah.
But generally they're pretty good.
I hear a lot about LPs in Canada.
We've had a few guests on in the past, like our last guest Pete has talked about LPs.
Can you kind of explain for us Americans what an LP even is?
Is it just a company, a cannabis company?
Yeah, well, in Canada we have several different types of licenses, and they're highly controlled by the government.
There's the LP, it's a licensed producer.
That's what I believe.
Licensed producers.
And then there's the micro growers for the people who are smaller, like they have a small, medium-sized warehouse.
And then there's the nursery license where you're only allowed to sell seeds or clones.
Gotcha.
But they're all highly, highly regulated by the government.
Casey can tell you more about that.
But the LPs are allowed, it basically covers the whole gamut of being able to package it.
A micro grower or a nursery person has to go to another company to package it for you.
They're fixing all that now.
When it first started, as a micro, you had to go to an LP or you had to get a processing license.
And now you can get a sales license, so you have your own path to sales.
But originally you'd have to go through an LP, which would have all the licenses to be able to get you to market.
And they're slowly fixing that.
The one thing that blew my mind that I found out about Canadian, maybe this is just territorial, I'm not sure.
But was that the people who are in charge of buying for the government are like just randoms, like not weed people at all.
And every province or state, as you guys call it, is different and different regulations in every province.
That's one reason we still haven't gone for our full license here in Canada.
If we went for our full nursery license to sell seeds and clones on the legal market, we would be prevented from selling on our website.
We wouldn't be allowed to sell overseas, which is the majority of our market is overseas.
Right now I'm going for medical, a few patients.
So that allows me to do my selecting and breeding and then provide the medicine for the patients.
But the full legal market for us isn't really the way to go.
So we're looking for perhaps eventually here moving out of Canada.
So I've already got a location down in South America.
I started breeding at, but we've even considered working in the States.
So would you guys have the same thing too?
We have the same issue.
Every state is different.
Yeah. California is a nightmare, man.
The way that I think that it's going to wrap up is to where there's not going to be any path for anyone to breed because there's not going to be any kind of plant count that allows you to breed.
Nothing realistic, like 12, you may get 12.
But for a seed company, we piss on 12.
We need 12 for one mom to stay alive.
We need 12.
That's not realistic.
Yeah, exactly.
We have two licenses here for 317 plants.
So we're just about 635 plants we can do.
That's nice.
That's just enough for me to work with.
I wish I had more.
Yeah, I know.
Never enough, right?
Never enough.
Yeah.
Someday, someday.
Maybe in South America.
We're looking at a license in Argentina where they when you get a license, they just allow you a flat two acres.
Do whatever you want on two acres, whether it's indoor, outdoor, greenhouse, it doesn't matter.
It's simplified, but there's other steps they have there too that are quite difficult.
Do they have like a good power grid to where no matter where you're at, no matter where you live in Argentina, you can just hook up like a fucking big old indoor and blow it up?
Yeah, it's pretty good actually.
It's pretty well set up.
The electricity cost is about the same as Canada.
Probably a little more expensive than the US.
But, you know, there's no snow there.
Yeah.
So as Canadians, we like not having snow.
Oh, you guys stick a snow up in Canada?
No, snow's good.
Ice fishing.
He's an ice fisherman.
He lives in the woods.
But for me, I absolutely hate the snow.
Yeah, here it gets up to like 120 degrees Fahrenheit here.
So like I hate the sun.
I hate the sun.
I can deal with the snow because I can put on clothes, but I can't get more naked.
So I hate that.
I'm with you on that one, 100%.
Yeah, yeah.
Fuck that.
Well, I'd rather be in shorts and shirtless.
Yeah, yeah.
Cooking, cooking.
I'm not a good Canadian, I guess.
What kind of Canadian are you?
You've got to love snow and hockey.
Come on.
So let's talk a little bit about the LP structures and stuff because that is something we've never really covered.
Let's say you want to run a big seed company up there.
What kind of license would you need?
Just hypothetically, though.
You know what I mean?
Well, I need a nursery license.
Like the warehouse that I'm in right now and working in, we're about 90% of the way having it built for a nursery license.
And we put a stop to that a few months ago when we realized that the market isn't here in Canada for us.
It just doesn't make sense.
So we're probably going to, as something changes in the next few months, we're probably going to wind down operations here in Canada.
And move overseas.
The regulations are just way, way too tough.
And if the government employee who selects the products to sell in the stores says,
nobody buys seeds, so we don't want your seeds, I can't sell them.
That's insane to me.
That's insane to me.
Like, oh, this person who has no tap on the market at all says, today we don't want XYZ.
And that's your main strain.
And you're like, what's your input?
What's your context for this?
Yeah, in the province we're in here now in Alberta, I believe it's a few years ago, they took a bunch of seeds in from some micro growers and LPs.
And they didn't sell very well in the strain because basically everybody had like one or two strains.
It was all white widow or a big bud or something like that.
Oh, no.
And then the government said, well, these aren't selling very well.
So we're not going to buy seeds anymore.
So what to do now is that now the market has saturated, too.
So so do you think so?
Just from my perspective as an American, I noticed right at the beginning of covid was when the drop happened as far as the market in the US.
Like, that's when the weed market just bottomed out.
I may not have been it might be like it might have just been a correlation causation type thing where it happened at the same time.
But whatever happened happened here at that time.
Like that was a very good mark to know when the weed market completely bottomed out.
Yeah. And it affected the market here.
It affected the seed market maybe six months after that.
Did it hit around the same time there?
Yeah. Yeah.
Pretty similar for the weed market.
Legal recreation kept doing kind of its thing.
Might have picked up a little bit, but I would say like on the flower side, on the gray, it would be down sales for sure.
I don't know about seeds. Yeah.
And on the black market here, prices on the street dropped from about twelve, fourteen hundred dollars a pound down to about five or six.
And for five or six hundred dollars, that barely pays your electricity bill.
Exactly. It's not.
But a lot of the a lot of the there was a lot of stuff going out the back doors of the LPs and the micros, like how it always is.
But but now these days, the customers in Canada have slowly just moved.
They're lazy. They go to the store. There's a store on every corner.
Yeah. And only the good growers and the guys that are really weed geeks, they're the ones still buying seeds.
But there's not as many of you guys that are just kind of doing it for fun to make a little extra money on the side.
A lot of used grow equipment for sale.
There's a lot of used grow equipment for sale.
Oh my God. I bet.
I got two pallets of lights here that I can't even give away.
No way.
A thousand watt HPSs. I've got about forty five of them.
Oh, I bet.
I can't even give them away.
So yeah, it's crazy, right?
It's pretty crazy.
It was just like on its head and then flipped all of a sudden.
And yeah, seeds, the seed market bottomed out as far as I could tell.
Yeah, the seed market too.
Yeah, the seed market for us, it's mostly been maybe in the last six months to a year is where we really noticed the big change.
Because we have our whole, we sell a lot of wholesale seeds.
So people want to buy, whether it's a hundred seeds or a thousand or ten thousand.
Our wholesale prices have just dropped.
Yeah, it's crazy how much has dropped.
Anyone who hasn't dropped their price per packs during this is silly because they're probably cutting themselves off.
Because the way I looked at it was like seeds are a, they're not a, not everybody needs seeds that are growers.
It's something that they do extra when they have extra space to select, I want to find something new.
But they can go get clones down at the growth store for 10 a pop.
So why would they need seeds?
It's not something they necessarily need to select new stuff every time.
They can go get what's hot, what's hip from clones.
And that seems to be what happened when everybody's money kind of vanished.
In the US with COVID and everything else going on and the weed market bottoming out.
Seeds weren't so necessary anymore.
Yeah, well, you guys down in California, I believe you can sell and buy and sell clones in stores.
Yeah, we can't do that in Canada.
You know, I take that back because for a while, we were able to.
I don't know, when 64 hit, I don't know, it kind of screwed everything up.
And the last I saw here locally, they were not allowed to sell clones anymore.
But a lot of places do. So I don't know. Yeah, one of those things.
Yeah, they're starting to now.
I've seen there's some stores that have setups to actually house clones to be able to move them.
And then I think through the medical market as well, companies can sell clones to medical patients.
But there's the logistics side of it, right?
Depending on where you are, it's tough to send clones through the mail.
Exactly.
Depending on what you're getting, right?
Yep. And who you're getting it from, because you just don't even know if it's going to be what you expect.
I mean, if government regulations all up in the middle of it, that really fucks shit up.
Like super because they really don't know what the fuck they're doing.
They have no place in it. Like, really?
Yeah, no.
Random? What the fuck does that have to do with anything?
Yeah, the people that made the regulations were not, they were not pot smokers or growers.
Just a bunch of bureaucrats, it seems.
Yeah, they treated it like a commodity.
Yeah, like they wanted to treat it like Oscar Mayer ham or anything else like that.
And that's just not how it works.
Yeah, they didn't really understand weed customers.
Like weed customers, it's not like somebody who drinks beer every day and they go Budweiser, Budweiser, Budweiser.
Exactly.
And they get a brand.
Weed smokers want to try something new.
All the time.
Sometimes they have their reliable go to strains, but yeah, they want to try new flavors.
It's not like the alcohol business.
And that's how it was really viewed up here for a lot of regulators.
They just seen it as like alcohol.
Yeah.
That's the way they viewed it.
And that's not how it is.
And that's how they try to treat it here too.
That's one of the big issues that they've run into with like, you know, even driving, trying to, you know, figure out how to screw people over and give them DWIs for smoking.
Like they're having problems with that.
How do you figure that out?
You know?
Yeah, I've had some buddies like him that I wouldn't trust them if they weren't smoking and driving.
Yeah, right.
Yeah.
It makes me a lot cooler.
Like I don't get all worked up about other drivers.
A little less road rage, eh?
Yeah, I don't.
I learned to chill out.
I used to like as a young man, when I didn't used to smoke and drive a bunch, like I get all rowdy about like how fast I was getting places.
Like, get out of my way.
And now it's just like, just chill.
And with other people that have the road rage.
I'll get there when I get there.
Yeah.
It's like, what are you so worked up about?
Yeah, it helps.
Right on.
Yeah.
I don't smoke as much as I used to when I was young.
But yeah, a long road trip always needs a few puffs.
So, what's something that you smoked recently that like, not necessarily out of your own stuff, but that you've tried recently that really was like, wow, that's different.
Like, that's a unique strain.
Has there been anything?
I live in a bit of a closet here.
A big closet with lots of plants.
So here in Canada, I'm smoking most of my own strains always.
Yeah.
But in South America, I tried some really interesting strains down there.
What kind of strains did you try down there?
Yeah, actually, I met a really good grower in Chile.
We're kind of working.
He's growing out a bunch of my stuff right now.
But he had a lot of different Jamaican strains.
Oh, wow.
And I really, really like a few different Blue Mountain sativas.
And also, he had a – it was interesting because he also has a Colombian Red down there.
Oh, interesting.
And I grow Colombian Red up here.
I've been in the past, and I'm breeding with it now.
But it was nice to see that his was very, very similar to mine.
Oh, that's rad.
So, yeah, it's on the other side of the planet.
But it was, yeah, a bit of a confirmation that I'm getting a bit of the real deal here.
How long flowering is that Colombian Red?
That's got to be about 12-ish.
Yeah, I think it goes 12-ish.
Yeah, I think it's 13.
Yeah.
That's the one – well, we have a cross with it now.
It's the Colombian Red crossed with a Mexican sativa that I'm calling a Latina sativa.
And that went about 13, 14 weeks.
Yeah.
And it probably could have went more.
Yeah, it could have kept going.
It wasn't, like, done, done like the rest of the room.
The rest of the room.
Because when I was down in Argentina, Casey here was watching the crop for me, taking care of things.
And some of the strangers, he's like, Jay, I can't keep these alive.
What's going wrong?
I said, well, they're 13, 14 weeks old.
And that's why you can't keep them.
Because when I grow seeds and breed the seeds, I grow that plant so long until it almost dies on the stick.
I just get the best quality seeds.
And I fertilize to the end.
And he thought he was doing something wrong here for a while.
No, no.
Look at the data.
I put those in the room.
Oh, okay.
That's funny.
Yeah, some of those Colombians go 26 weeks, every bit of it.
Like there's some jungly Colombians out there.
Yeah, I'm a big fan of the sativas.
Some guys like the cushes and the indicas.
But I'm a sativa guy.
Yeah, I can't get enough.
He's the indica dude.
But I'm all sativa.
Yeah, yeah, I like the sativas myself.
I like ties and very clear-headed type ties.
But, you know, it's just different smoke for different occasion, though, for sure.
One of my buddies told me to tell you, if you do want the Celestial Temple Sativa, the old, old release, he has them for you.
I don't know if it's him or somebody else.
It's on my list to talk about here.
But we had somebody contact us about two weeks ago saying he watched the podcast and he has the Celestial Temple.
Yeah, yeah.
He said it's in the mail.
That's awesome.
That's so cool.
We're going to send him.
We told him anything you want, man.
Pick whatever you want from the catalog.
Oh, that's rad of you guys.
So, yeah, I can't wait to try it out.
That was such a nice, very unique strain.
I haven't seen anything like it with those long, long fingers.
Yeah, yeah.
It was just it was actually a buddy, a mutual friend of Breeder Steve and Red.
Burnt Dan.
If you go back in Vancouver, you will know who Burnt Dan is.
Okay.
He had it sitting in the corner of his living room for like two or three years as a house plant.
Yeah.
And he always like, oh, he kind of ignored it.
And it was just it stayed in veg, just sitting in the corner of the living room.
And we took some cuts of it, brought it back.
And he had never even grown it out.
I think Breeder Steve had given him this cut and it's kind of just sat there for three years.
That's funny.
And the story is it's from Ecuador.
Yeah.
But whatever you did with it, it was hard to get it to flip into flower.
It would sit there in veg forever.
And I believe that took about 12, 13 weeks to flower as well.
But the high from that, I remember the high from that.
It's kind of like a really soapy, spicy, perfumey strain.
Not fruity or piney at all.
Yeah.
And it made it was kind of like so much Jamaican strains.
I grew up.
It left me always kind of confused feeling.
Yeah.
It's one of those strains that you don't dare do math.
Yeah.
Right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Some of that stuff you have to like put your light hours down to eight or nine hours to get it to trigger into flower and initiate and just leave it at eight or nine hours.
So if you're growing anything else that like wants, you know, normal light hours, it's just screwed because it's got to go to flower with whatever that that one wants.
But some of those have the most quality wild special highs.
And that's what makes them worth it.
That little weird chase.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
People don't grow enough.
So he was up here.
I agree.
There should be a lot more of them going around.
But that's cool.
And they are too.
And get the great big sativas.
I've got a few friends that grow them and they're.
That's awesome.
But up here in Canada outdoors, we can't really finish them properly other than a few of the early sativas and a few of the strains from Great White North and the Canadian red seeds.
They did the.
Yeah, they did some early sativa was basically a Durban.
Yeah.
From Manitoba and stuff like that.
Yeah, there's a lot of good breed.
Actually, this brings me to the point when you had a peak there on the other day.
Yeah, yeah.
Let's talk about some of that.
He was bringing up a few things about how.
But BC bud and how all the big players in BC back in the day or maybe even now.
But back in the day, anyway, they weren't from BC.
Yeah.
We all migrated from out east.
We always heard about, OK, you can grow weed in BC and not go to jail for too long.
So we all kind of migrate and the weather was better.
So we all kind of migrated.
I was 20 years old.
The first thing I did, me and my wife, we moved to the coast and learn how to grow weeds.
That was.
But but most of Canada, a lot of the biggest breeders and players in the game were not from BC.
Yeah, we took advantage of the legal climate.
And yeah, I think of like all kind seed.
They're all a bunch of Alberta boys.
Mark Emery is from Ontario.
Whole bunch of really top, top grade breeders from Ontario, from Manitoba, which nobody talks about there because you could go to jail for 20 years for growing plants.
So a bunch of the big breeders from rural Manitoba.
Even a bubble man, Richard, what's his name?
Mark, Mark, Mark, Mark, Mark, Mark.
Yeah, yes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He's from Manitoba as well.
And yeah, we're in the is the Kootenai really big, too.
Yes. Yeah.
So, yeah, a lot of the Kootenai is where they'll have a generational growers that have been.
Yeah.
Their parents grew and their granddad grew.
Like our humble.
Yeah, kind of.
And Vancouver Island is similar to that.
Yeah.
Where I like the Mighty Mike boys there.
They were like their parents, their grandparents are all grew.
They were, I think, Vietnam War draft Dodgers.
Yeah.
They leave the States when they got drafted.
So they all came up to Canada.
And so it's generation after generation of growers.
But yeah, that's mostly the island and the Kootenai.
Yeah.
So, yeah.
Yeah.
A lot of good strains.
But like when I moved out there to BC, I didn't realize that a lot of my friends were lazy hippies.
And they didn't keep other plants around because they could just go to talk to somebody else and buy a tray of clones for the next grow.
And for me, being from the prairies where it was all rare, I was just a rabid collector.
And I just got everything I could get my hands on.
My bedrooms were bigger than my flower rooms.
Oh, same, same.
Always.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Always.
And they didn't know.
They grew up with it.
It was always there.
So they kind of didn't take it seriously.
So that's why I think a lot of us Easterners kind of came in and took over the market.
Yeah.
And even when the Prairie Boys or the East Coast guys had weed to sell to the States, they just called it BC.
They just called it BC Bud or Beasters.
Yeah.
Because you would never tell anybody that you're actually growing it.
It's like, oh, yeah, I bought it from a guy in BC.
That makes sense.
You wouldn't even tell your best friend that you were growing in your basement.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's how secretive it was back in the 90s.
So.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's still that way here where I'm at.
Like, you just.
Even all my friends know.
Like, we don't know where Matt lives.
That's what it is.
Just, you know, they just know that's part of the drill, you know.
Yeah.
It's an old school mentality, and I don't think it's probably not even necessary as much anymore.
But like, the idea back then, it was that you didn't want to end up on anyone's short list when someone's grow got robbed.
You didn't want to do that.
So it was like you didn't even want to ask someone where they lived if you knew they were a grower.
And if you're a grower, you didn't want to talk about it because you don't want to get ripped or robbed or.
Yeah.
You need to know only.
Only need to know.
Yeah.
And anybody who is going a buddy who is going through a divorce or split up with a girlfriend, you was like, OK, but no offense, but I'm not going to talk to you for a year.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Because one of the most dangerous things was a was when somebody split up.
Yeah.
And vindictive ex girlfriend would just fucking rat you out.
My chick.
My chick has been mind blown.
Like, she went to that party in the in the mountains with a bunch of us that all met up around the country.
And she was the one story she heard in common was that we all have exes that have blackmailed us over weed.
Like that is just a part of our life.
We all have been blackmailed over growing.
Yeah.
You got two guys that can confirm that here.
Right.
Like, it's just it's I don't how do we how do they even know to do that?
Like, is there a rule book somewhere?
It says, hey, find a grower and blackmail them.
You know, lived happily on it for years.
And so it goes away.
Fuck you.
Kids even worse.
Even worse.
Yeah.
We've both been there.
And Jesus.
That's one thing I liked about when I moved over to Spain.
It was so worrying for me to be able to.
Oh, how do you.
Welcome aboard.
Living in living in Spain, I was able to live openly and free.
I didn't have like Vancouver Island.
We had one or a couple of friends that actually knew where we lived and
nobody else really knew where I lived, even though even though they were
close friends.
Sure.
But in Spain, nobody gave a shit.
Everybody was growing.
You'd never have to hide it.
Like I said, the first tray of clones I sold in Spain was to the local
police officer.
So crazy.
It was it was an on issue.
What year?
To your crop.
Yeah.
What year was Spain?
I believe I went there in 2008.
Okay.
The week that Mark Emery got busted.
You went there during the glory days for Spain.
Yes, exactly.
That's why I know a bunch of the big players in Spain.
Yeah.
All the big farmers.
For.
Yeah.
Big farmers for Dynafam.
Royal queen.
All those guys.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I was there 2008 until 2016, I believe.
No shit.
16 or 17.
So, yeah, nine, nine years living there.
So let's let's break into something.
I know I've mentioned it on the show before, but it's something that it's
very often not talked about.
It's one of those golden rules to see things that like the guys involved
don't want people talking about it, but it's a reality.
Can you talk about some of the big players in Spain who are making the
majority of the seeds for the seed industry?
Is that something you're open to talk about?
Yeah, it's a it's an open secret.
Anybody that's close to it knows there's probably only a couple dozen
big farmers that provide seeds for all the big companies.
Most of the Spanish companies.
Originally, the Dutch were the big companies.
And then they started farming out seed making to Spanish growers because
everything was cheaper in Spain and it became more illegal in Amsterdam.
They cracked down on it.
Yeah.
And yeah, the Dutch guys were getting older, too.
They've been doing it for 20 years and they want to retire.
Yeah.
And all they're doing, they bring their clones down to a Spanish farmer and
give you the clones.
Hey, you make these seeds, I'll give you 50 cents a seed.
And I was I was a proposition by a few different growers, too, from paradise
and it's serious to make seeds for them.
I never did it.
Maybe I should have.
But yeah, I know.
I should have.
After the first after the first five or six years or 10 years of the Spanish
guys farming the seeds, they're like, well, forget these Dutch guys.
And the Spanish slowly took over the market and they stepped up to.
So but a lot of the companies down there, there's a few that are that are
breeding their own things and aren't just retailers.
But the majority of the Spanish companies, they buy it off a farmer and,
you know, three or four different seed companies will have the exact same bag
of seeds, but all have a name that's similar.
Yeah.
And what I noticed, what I noticed was a lot of it started with like, OK,
the Dutch would bring like the drunkards would bring their clones down there.
They'd sell, you know, the seed lines would be true to what they were selling
at the time.
But then like over time, I noticed like greenhouse, like you'd never
consistently get the same seeds in the same pack because they were just like,
give us something like Jack Kerr or like and we'll think, you know,
is it lemony a little bit?
Lemon haze.
All right.
Is it sativa lemon?
You know, and it started to get a lot more like that.
And I think it's probably one of the most open secrets behind the scenes.
But on the front side, most people don't know that they're buying from like
12 breeders in Spain when they're buying these large, large companies like the
major.
I don't even need to name them, but yeah, the large company.
Yeah, we don't need to name them because it's obvious if you look at the
catalogs, everybody's got a critical cross or a silver haze or amnesia,
something.
Yeah.
Yeah.
They're all they all come from the same bag half the time.
Yeah.
But yeah.
And a lot of the auto flowers, too.
The Spanish are really big on the autos.
They did some great breeding on autos.
They're really good.
They made the autos a good thing because when auto flowers first came onto the
scene, they were shit.
Yes, they were.
Tiny little runs.
It was kind of a novelty at the beginning.
Yeah.
And actually, a lot of the first breeders of the auto flowers actually were from
Canada as well, out in Toronto region.
I don't know them myself personally, but I think a lot of the first auto flowers
that were marketed like the Low Rider.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That was an Ontario guy.
Man, I'd love to talk to that dude.
Yeah.
I have no idea what happened to him, but.
I don't either.
I never saw him.
Yeah.
The Spanish guys brought it up a level and they got better and better with
their auto flowers.
And I started doing autos probably about eight or nine years ago because the
market demanded it.
Yeah.
And all my friends, I know a few of the big farmers that made seeds for like
Royal Queen, Dynafam, Sweet Seeds, Pyramid Seeds, all the Spanish companies.
So I ended up, my first big run of the autos was Big Bud, Northernized Big Bud.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And that's what I used as my first breeding material to breed into my
strains.
Was that Buddha seeds?
Did anyone like Big Bud?
Was that Buddha?
No, it's my buddy, Louis's neighbor.
The neighbor.
So he sells to about three or four different companies.
That's awesome.
Yeah.
A lot of the farmers there will sell to three or four different seed
companies.
And yeah, that's the way it works.
A couple of guys will get really good at growing a few of the strains that
they like and they dial it in.
I'm not going to shit talk the Spanish guys.
They know what they're doing.
No, I think they do great.
I think they do a good job.
Yeah, they do good work.
But a lot of the seed companies are different than the seed breeders and
growers.
Absolutely.
Some companies, I would say 80, 90% of them are just, they're resellers.
They're good at marketing, but they don't actually make their own.
Yeah.
I call them seed sellers versus breeders.
Like they're seed makers who don't really breed.
There's breeders who breed and make seeds.
And then there's seed sellers who are just resellers,
don't really have much of an interest in the breeding aspect.
They're interested in the movement of seeds.
Yeah, it's a business.
They run the website.
I often find it amazing how into seed making people get and how little
they actually understand what's going on just behind the curtain,
you know, in that regard.
Like, I mean, it seems like when you talk,
like if I remember correctly, I think it was 99 or 2000,
the Dutch closed their law that made seed making legal.
Yeah.
They had a loophole and then there was a bunch of busts and that seemed like
it shifted a bunch of people's work to either Switzerland or Spain.
But it's kind of been like a little bit that way the whole time.
Like the whole reason most of that work even went out to Amsterdam in the
first place was it was more permissive than the 80s and the Reagan drug war
and all that.
And so it's almost like the movement like looks for where it's liberal and
they can get away with it.
Get away with it.
Just enough.
Just enough.
And then, you know, like you were just saying, like, you know,
various companies we won't name it.
It happens in America right now too, where it's like people have a brand and
they have packaging and they have a following.
Right.
And so all they need to do is put seeds into that packaging and into that
brand and into that following.
And people think that they did it from beginning to end.
Yes.
When in reality, they farmed it out, you know,
and they're just buying from a menu because they have all that packaging and
that brand and they're going to do a drop and they're going to do a collab.
And people don't understand.
People think that all these individually we'd famous people,
most of them are making their own stuff and keeping their own mothers and like
in-house working it.
Yeah.
And it's like, it's such an open secret,
but it's also like so like poorly understood by like 90% of the rest of the
group out there.
And I don't want to act like I'm shitting on any.
And I know you guys aren't either.
Like, I don't want to make it sound like I'm shitting on any of the steps in
this process because like each of the steps of those process do their own
thing.
And like, they're making their own success.
Like obviously some of these major companies that have people that don't
make any seeds that have never touched a seed other than to resell them are the
most successful companies.
So like how you.
It's pretty funny because yeah,
a lot of the companies that sell a lot of the seeds,
they've probably never grown hardly 10 plants.
Yeah, exactly.
And even myself,
we sell a lot of wholesale seeds for other companies.
They want to buy a bulk batch of seeds and they,
they package it themselves.
They're better at marketing than I am.
Yeah.
Sure.
And most breeders are like that.
Like just we're into the plant side.
Like I,
I've had to force myself to get into like the podcasting side and the
marketing aspect,
like none of the stuff I'm comfortable with at all.
To some degree,
dude, for a long time,
what,
regardless of what country you're in or whatever people that were deep
weed people,
the best thing they could do was stay invisible and keep their head down.
head down. And so it's a very different skill set to be like,
oh, get out there, promote yourself, promote your brand,
promote your company, be the face of it. So in a lot of ways,
like, you know, it's, it's just not, it's just different.
Yeah, if you want to survive in this business, you got to change
and I've been realizing that as well. I have to be more
proactive with social media or people don't know who you are.
Yeah, yeah.
I got it. Yeah. A few weeks ago, I got on a stupid argument. Like
you shouldn't do on Facebook. And some some some guy was
hard on me. I go, I'm the biggest player around here. I
move packs and I supply stores. And I've been into this from the
old days. I've been around for like, eight or nine years. And
I've never heard of you. Who are you?
You've been around since eight or nine years.
The old Yeah, so you can't engage with those people. It's
you gotta just ignore it.
It's very hard though. Sometimes it's so hard when you just want
to because our culture we were raised different. Like it was a
lot of us were raised with like an apprentice type culture where
like you fucking get your fucking smack stuff. Don't
embarrass the people around you. Don't embarrass your culture.
Well, it was hard to get. I mean, I don't I try to explain
to people a lot and I don't I don't think it sinks in very
much because we live in such an information dominated society.
But when most of us started, how difficult it was even to figure
out the basics. Yeah. Yeah, you know, I mean, yeah, you know,
there wasn't forums, there wasn't the internet, there
wasn't the exchange of ideas yet or anything like that. And
because it was so risky, getting into a trusted circle was hard.
And almost by accident more than intention. Yeah, you know,
it's almost like no, my Yeah, I was a lead accident. We all
purposely we kept our circle small because it was just too
risky to have a big circle. Yeah. But yeah, but I you know,
I, I'm not and I just want to make everybody clear like I'm
not dissing anybody in Spain. It's mostly you know, like
because probably some of those Spanish breeders and some of
those Spanish farmers are really good at what they do. Oh,
I know if you really kick ass growers and breeders in Spain,
you know, so it's not to disparage them. It's just more
like, like, you know, you've got these these brands, we don't
need to mention them. But you got some big brands that like
kind of ruled the 90s from Holland. Yeah. And then they
start getting busted and they're getting older, like you said,
and they like they kind of lost their verb for it. But they have
this brand and they can sell a lot of seed. And so you know,
you talk to a lot of the Dutch and they'll never claim that
they lost a single thing. Sure. Yeah. Parents everything. I mean
that why admit that you lost anything? 40 years in running? I
mean, what's funny is, you know, I mean, I guess I'll diss sensei
for a second or whatever. But like, no, they still if you go
on their web page today, they still use the same pictures that
Neville had in his seed bank catalog in 89 and 90. Yeah. They
haven't updated their super skunk picture in 35 years.
Yeah. Some of the Dutch some of the bigger ones I know green
highlight my my, my business partner is a friend with Arien
he ran time seed back in the day and he used to move a lot of
their seeds for for Arien and he's been in their mother room.
He said, there's these trees in Arien's main mother room that
are the trees. They've been going for years and years and
there's a few companies that have the original cuts. But most
probably don't. And we all we all know we've all lost strains
that we reproduce.
But let's be realistic, like, greenhouse are the ones that are
probably the most notorious for doing the white labeling of
seeds. I have never understood why Arien would keep moms of
anything for that long. And he doesn't even sell seeds of the
shit that he's keeping these moms
because he probably does it all dude.
I mean, yeah, maybe he does. But I just it doesn't make sense in
my head. Like I see them doing the the strain hunters and I
don't I don't want to diss the dude because he's done a lot I
guess you know, but I see strain hunters I see them collecting
all these land race strains. But I've never seen like these big
massive reproductions of all these strains. I've seen them
vault.
That dude is I couldn't say for sure. But he probably is the
most as long as far as the public people go. He's probably
the most successful business person in cannabis. Sure.
Yep. But you know, Franco Franco before he died, like Franco
Ariens partner or yeah, yeah. Franco had a heart for weed. He
he really he was a weed geek. You get your jars and samples in
front of them. And he was just passionate about it. He could
smell everything and he would go on about it. Arien barely maybe
spoke the odd joint in the evening. He's a businessman,
you know, the guy behind it, but but Franco, he was the real
deal. So yeah, but like just like nowadays, I actually talked
to Arien when I was down in South America at the trade show
down there. And he, a lot of the seeds now are made in Colombia.
Because it's so so cheap to produce down there. And when I
told him I had Oh, I got a couple 100,000 auto flowers
here I need to move blah, blah, blah. And he looked at me and
laughed. He goes, I got a barrel full.
He's like, Okay, well, okay.
Yeah, but he bought a farmer, you can, you can look at that.
And it's like, that's always I actually look at Holland and
Amsterdam. I look at all the eras is like teaching moments in
a way. Because it doesn't really change that much. And even like
living in California and having like legalization sort of start
to sweep through America. All the same stuff that was
happening in the 90s. And Holland is happening here now.
Yeah, you've got your like, underground weed nerds that just
want to like, have a good living and work with plants. And they
have to bond with like, sort of straight business people that
don't care nearly as much but have that aspect or have sides
of like they have access to capital, or money, or the things
that you don't. And you know,
yeah, that's one reason I like six, about five, six years ago,
I moved back to Canada. A few of the big companies here, the big
LPS were kind of courting me and trying to get me to come grow
for them. But I would have had to sell out all my genetics and
give them my my strains. And I would have just started making
a wage, maybe a percentage of the company, a big company, I'd
maybe make 5% shares from the company or something. Sure. And
and I kind of after a few of them came to me, I that's why my
partner now, Taylor, I chose him as a partner because he ran
kindseed really, really well.
He's old school.
He knows how he knows how to he's anybody talks to him on the
phone when they call our website. Taylor's the most
friendly guy.
He'll help like Taylor.
And yeah, when you talk to him on the phone, you're his best
friend after 10 minutes on the phone. And he's a bit of a big
soft teddy bear here. And he'll always give you free stuff.
Yeah, which is fine. And but but he's somebody who I know, will
can deal with the customer. So I teamed up with him, even though
he didn't have the funds, and it was a bit of a slower rise to
get back into the game over here in Canada. But when he has when
he's on the phone with a customer, that's one of our
rules. Like when I teamed up with him years ago, he's like,
there's no bullshit. Like, if a customer asks something about a
strain, if you don't know, just tell them you don't know. Yes.
And he even said that to me yesterday, I told him we're
going on the podcast. He goes, Jay, just don't say anything
that's not true. If you don't know something, no, no. And it's
the advice I gave him and he gave that. Yeah. Like, it's
just something beautiful, isn't it? To be in this business for
this long. People see that bullshit. They do. And it's
there's no shame in admitting you don't know what where that
strain came from or what crosses what exactly you tell people
what you know, and, and that's it.
So one thing that's held true on our podcast, since day one, is
that our least the people who are serious weed nerds and that
appreciate our show is that they always sense when someone being
transparent and just being like, I don't know, you know, like, I
just tell it the way it was. And you can always see in the
comments. Everybody always is like, yep, yep. This guy's not a
bullshitter. Appreciate it. You know, all the time.
Yeah, last night when I was watching Pete there on there.
Yeah, yeah. It's 20 minutes into 20 minutes into the podcast.
Like, Oh, this guy's not a bullshitter. No, no. He's the
real deal. Yeah, no bullshit to be. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I actually
like that. It'd be interesting to have a little podcast with me
and him chatting because he knows a lot of Ontario scene. I
know that BC scene better and we could probably we're in the
same together. We have all the mutual friends. But yeah, it'd
be pretty interesting to actually chat with him
sometime.
Yeah, that'd be great. I'm sure he'd enjoy it too. He loves it.
Yeah, he's an old dork like, yeah, I only watched one
podcast of his but I think you guys have about two or three.
Yeah, I think we did. Yeah. Yeah.
With him. It's just he's got so much information in there. It's
just about keeping them on point, you know, because he'll
start talking about something and then he'll get a thought in
his head and all of a sudden you're like 45 degree angle.
You're off on a tangent about something totally else. Yeah.
Yeah, you know, and he yeah, I like that he gives unvarnished
opinions of what he thinks about people. You know, yes, that's my
favorite. You know, because it's like a lot of times one of the
hardest things about like doing a show like this is like, you're
trying to get information across, right? And people come
on for different reasons or whatever, you know, but it's
like, it's very difficult to be like, just real. And and what I
mean by that is to not just like make it's really tempting to
make yourself look better than you are. Yeah. You know,
there's no need for that. There's no need for that.
As any of us know, it's like a lot of breeding is accidents. A
lot of breeding is failure. You know, a lot of breeding is like
you wish you had the things you had back then now, because you
have a better job with them now than you would have done 15
years ago, and you were still just figuring it out. And you
know, it, I actually think it's amazing how much cool stuff has
come out of cannabis. Despite like most of it coming out of
garages or little warehouses or little green, little guys. Yeah,
I mean, when I was first going when I was first going to
Holland, I just had no idea that like every five or six
years, weed would reinvent itself. And I mean, in the
sense, and what I mean by that is that, like, if you don't get
seeds when they're available, you have no idea if those seeds
with those parents will ever be around again.
Well, I mean, that changed over time, though, it accelerated the
process of how quick strains turned over accelerated. I mean,
OG Kush lasted 20 frickin years, like White Widow lasted, you
know, 20 frickin years, but now it's like cookies and then
ruts, then you know, this and that it's going way faster. The
fads are going faster, I think.
Yeah, I think that's modern marketing. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah,
it's just marketing for newbies. Yeah. Yeah. But, but yeah, like,
actually, to go back to what Pete said about, I'm gonna
tangent here as well. But what Pete said about Mark Emery, and
back in the day, he made some really good points. And I
clarify, like last, the last podcast, we were chatting, and I
was a little bit vague about some of my history back in the
day, working with Emery, but I don't have to be that vague. But
yeah, for about a year or so, like the Federation, when I
split from Federation, it was a big argument I had with with
Mark and with Mike from Federation, because we I was out
of the city for for about a month or so. And I came back and
my partner at Federation had a bunch of strains on Mark Emery's
catalog that I know did not exist.
Oh, that sucks, dude.
He was just renamed him and I and that was the last straw. And
I went in, I went in, I told Mark, hey, Mark, I'm done with
Federation, me and Mike are split. I'm starting my own seed
company. And by the way, all those crosses that you have
there in the catalog, they don't actually exist. They're
just renamed seeds. Because Mike wanted to make some money. And
Mark did not care. He goes, Oh, well, of course, the catalog.
Yeah. And, and I was like, and that's when I start I stopped
selling seeds to Mark. That was that same day that I was done.
So I went over to Kind Seed. I started selling to Kind Seeds,
Amsterdam Seed Company or Amsterdam Cafe. And if you if
you companies online in Ontario, but I stopped selling
to Mark Emery that that that very same day. And that's
awesome. It was only about probably about five or six
years later when I don't know if you guys know, Michelle Rainey.
No, she came up. She anyway, she came to Vancouver and she took
over the business end of Mark Emery seeds in probably the mid
2000s. And that's okay. And she ran, she ran it straight. And
because Mark was too busy doing his political shit. Oh, yeah.
Yeah. I was getting into trouble and blowing money. So when
Michelle took over, she ran it straight and she was honest
about it. So that's, that's why I went back into the Emory
catalog. But for that from about 1999 till 2005. I never sold to
Mark because I knew I was off.
You know what I gotta ask, don't you? What I gotta ask? What
strains were on the list? What strains are on the list?
Oh, I can't. You know what? There's four or five that he had.
I can't really remember.
Had to though. Had to try.
I have to I actually I do have some of my old Emory catalogs.
Yeah, I could probably figure it out by looking at the old
catalogs. But off the top of my head. I wrote it off and left.
So I
Yeah, of course. Like they weren't they weren't your
creations. So why the fuck would you care?
To me, that's always been the risk of like when you're buying
especially from different countries and stuff and like, an
order comes in for you know, eight packs of this and they
don't have it. But they have other seeds. And so they're
like, well, I'll just take the money and I'll fill this order
with this is close enough and off it goes and, and you know,
that's a slippery slope indeed.
Yeah. I always tell people unless it's a really big
established company. If a company online always has a
strain in stock, chances are they're bullshitting. Like as a
breeder myself to like, sometimes you run out of seeds.
And I don't have room in my grove to make that strain for
another six months. So yeah, you can't always have every strain
in stock unless you have an insanely well organized large
operation.
That's the one thing I tell people when they ask me what's
the first thing I can think of?
Yep. When when people ask me what's one thing I can look for
to know if a seed company has is reputable and I'd say well, look
how long they've been around and has any of this stuff ever gone
out of stock? That'll that'll give you your answer. Yeah. I
mean, I mean, it's not always true because there are amazing
people who can keep their stuff in stock and much better than I
ever could, obviously. But yeah, for the most part, if they're
doing it legit, they're gonna run out of stock and stuff every
now and then.
And you know, doing regular if you're doing regular breeding,
sometimes you get like a prolific amount of seeds as he
was just talking about you, you might have a 55 gallon drum,
like he was saying, like full of whatever. Yeah, you're not
gonna run out, you know, sometimes it's just unpopular.
Yeah, you know,
but you but you can't really sell them after three years or
so the germination rate goes down if you're not storing them
right. Sure. Yeah, he hears when he starts seeing a dip in the
germination rate. That's what I found. Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, if they're not fridge stored, people don't understand
like how quickly like because they can go from being real nice
to just but all of a sudden, a month later, nothing's popping.
I saw it happen with a lot of my old strawberry stuff for
whatever reason, all at the same time, it just like shit.
And that was that. It's only more.
One of the things I think is interesting about these two is
about stability.
Yeah.
I just I was just saying that, like, one of the big shifts, at
least that's happened in America is like, a lot of the old school
people have what I call, you know, they have lines, right.
And like you were saying, you have lines and you remake those
lines at different times for new seed. A lot of the smaller
breeders these days, everything is a one off. Yeah, everything
is made one. And it exists until it's gone. And the likelihood
they ever make it again is very small. Yeah, you know, because
they're not really making it.
Yeah. And when they do remake it, it's a different phenotype.
Yeah, exactly. First time. So it's become very flash in the
pan in that way where people advertise a drop. And if you
want that hybrid, you better get it then because, you know,
it's not like the old seed company days in America, at
least for a lot of people where it's like, I have these eight
strains. Here are the lines I offer. Yeah, yeah. You know, and
I've been working on these lines for quite a while.
And so, you know, but but strangely, people want work
lines, but they also want new stuff every single drop. Yeah.
Yes. That's what I ran into. And that's why I said, with the with
the blue bonnet shit, I was like, I'm done. I'm done. I'm
not changing anymore. I'm just staying because either way, I'm
not winning. So I'm just gonna stay here. See how it holds.
Yeah, stick them a gun. I wish I had some of the same cuts I had
back in the 90s. And I would have stayed there with a few of
those strains. Because you can't get any better. You don't leave
new. Yeah, if you only knew, right, right, like some of those
older lines from Neville.
I mean, Matt and I were talking to someone that was, you know,
very close to Neville the last, you know, decade or so of his
life. And even he bitched about he wished he had a lot of the
stuff he had in the 80s and early 90s. Now. Yeah. Because
you got, you know, 30 years of breeding in and man, what could
I do with them in my 60s? Yeah, I was an it. You know, I mean, I
think part of life is, I wish I had now what I had back when I
was an idiot kid. Yeah. And I think that keeps happening. The
older you get, you're like, man, I wish, you know, because
you just you gain experience if you're if you're good at what
you do. And you care, you know,
that a man thing, like, does anybody know any women that have
that same drive for something like that? I'm their driver,
like, I don't know any women that are like that about their
like, Oh, I wish I had that old strain from back in 62. Like
never heard of them say that ever. And I don't know, maybe
it's like a man's drive to I don't know, but
there's a few but not very many. Yeah, I wouldn't think
there's very many. Yeah.
I just think there's some industry that are male
dominated. Yeah, that's true. And I think cannabis or some
combination of it.
Yeah, actually, yeah, we're here in Canada. There's quite a few
women that are big players in the game. Yeah, especially in
the legal recreational market because women are face it like
they're better at doing work and going through the legal system
than we are
and creative to like I know some really creative women in the
recreational market that are doing really well with their
branding and stuff like that just because of it. You know
what I mean? There's a huge gap up here between the old school
guys that have been doing it forever and and business men and
try and throw the government into it's just miserable.
Right? Yeah, a few times some of my best partners were women
that ran my websites and they're weed geeks and can outsmoke. So
in South America, I encountered that as well. Argentina and
Chile women are running the show down there. They're running
they're doing the seals, they're running the shops. It's it's
more more so than Canada in that way. I didn't really expect that
because it's more of a machismo male dominated culture. But
yeah, on there. Yeah, the women are they're hardcore.
That's awesome. That's awesome. You know, a lot of the women
growers that I know, they actually interact with the plant
tend to be much better growers than men to for whatever reason
they have that.
Yeah, you don't want to admit it. But yeah, that's true.
Living thing, right?
Yeah, back in Vancouver, all the Asian growers. It was all the
women running, running programs. Oh, wow. And, you know, all the
Vietnamese and Chinese groups in the Vancouver. Yeah, the women
would be in there taking care of the plants and the guys would be
out there selling and dealing with the gangsters.
Gambling.
Do you know much about that culture? Like that's not a
culture that's ever really been talked about like the Asian
culture, the Asian black market culture in cannabis?
Well, in Vancouver, we have a very, very large Asian
population there. Yeah. So like, the one city I lived in right
next to Vancouver called Richmond, it's probably 80% are
Asian descent. Wow. And they they were they rent these big
giant mansions and they would pump out the pounds.
That's awesome.
No pots, no nothing. Yeah.
Dirt on the floor.
Yeah. Lights. Yeah. You'd walk into these places, there'd be
mold halfway up the walls, like wherever the poly started up was
fine and down was black mold. And they just run these giant
hothouses, burn them and turn them and on to the next place.
Like it was wicked.
When they when they got big in the late 90s. It's their fault
that the rental societies told the police told the landlords
that you have to inspect your your rental house every two
months. Oh, no. And that's all because of the big Asian
gangsters would go in and destroy a house. They took the
law three four crops, and then they move on to the next house.
And it kind of wrecked the rental scene in British
Columbia.
Wow, I didn't even know that was a law. That would be only in
British Columbia, because one out of three rental homes were a
girl commercial drop, not not a small one.
It's actually not. I mean, I think that's just the story to
some degree, like of how like a lot of times like like immigrant
populations work, you know, in the sense that harder. Well,
yeah, they not only that, but they have like tighter family
units, the people are willing to live on less. You know, they're
willing to bond together to raise themselves up it whatever
they're doing is far better than where they came from. To begin
with, they stick together. You know, ratting on the group is
unthinkable, because it's your entire family and everyone you
know, and all of your connections and all that. And so
it's actually a pretty effective method. And it goes on in
America, too, in all kinds of different ways. I used to, I
didn't know very much about it. But I used to have some friends
in the Canadian scene, you know, 20 something plus years ago, and
they were independent. And they said the hardest thing to be
independent was like, you basically had to be invisible to
the Asians and the bikers. Because those were the two those
were the two big groups that kind of wanted to dominate
everything. And so he you know, he was always like, I always
have to bob and weave and not irritate either either of those
groups. You know, yeah.
And yeah.
And Vancouver and British Columbia back in the day was
exactly the same. Yeah. Edmonton, too. And everywhere
across Canada was the same. If you got up to a certain size,
you kind of do not get taxed. You kind of had to know someone
or but I was lucky I was in the seed business. So they kind of
seen us as a novelty. They didn't take us too seriously. We
were a competition to them. So and I would some of the boys I
would give clones to and they were off often by their personal
bag off of me. And they wouldn't even smoke their own stuff
because they fertilize it right up to the end and they sell it
to the states and call it beasters. And but they wouldn't
even smoke their own stuff. So the boys would come to me and
buy their personal stash. So I was always kind of left alone to
do whatever I wanted. But But yeah, there is once you get to a
certain size, you kind of have to have the blessing.
I wonder if they were trying to tax Emory at all.
Not really big and flat. I don't think so. Yeah, he was too
flashy. I think they didn't want to be associated and get busted.
And he kind of took the heat away from them. He took the
heat away. And he was he was out there advertising BC bud to the
world. BC bud is so great. So so I brought everybody to the
he brought people to British Columbia to buy their weed. So
they let Mark be a useful fucking idiot is what he was a
useful.
You'd come because that's where his store was. And then you'd
find the 10 other stores that were hitting the market, right?
Honestly, if you're even in America, too, if you're in the
flop, the flower market and the seed market don't really
intersect very much. That's right. That's true. They just
don't like and they don't affect each other all that much. If
you're pumping out specific clones for production, you know,
like somebody with 30 different strains trying to make money in
that way. He's not affecting your clientele or what you're
doing or your life at all. It's just not even the same world.
Yeah, it's really not the same world.
Yeah, since I moved back to Canada, about five, six years
ago. I make seeds. If I had a couple pounds of weed, I wouldn't
even know where to sell it. Same. It's bizarre.
Same. When you're in the seeds for that long, I tell people
this a lot, too, that are interested in getting into the
seed game. I always tell them if you're ever going to get serious
about it, you're going to have to make that choice one day to
permanently turn to seeds. When you do flower, it's only going
to be your testers. You're not going to be in flower production
anymore. You're going to lose those contacts eventually
because you're just not going to need them. You're going to
devote your life to seed. You're eventually going to have to do
one or the other.
Yeah, exactly. My buddies back in Vancouver, back in the day,
they look at me like I'm an idiot sometimes because I'd be
growing these big rooms of Congolese and Mexican sativas
that take 16 weeks to flower. I'm like, Jay, you could have
flipped two crops by now and made all this money. They were
right. I'm a weed geek though. It was all about selecting. For
me, I was looking at the long game. I know that even if I exit
the industry, I can come back as long as I have my genetics and
stay true to what they are and don't bullshit. I can always
re-enter the industry. It's just growing bud and just flipping
pounds. You're nobody and there's no brand. You're just a
guy with a bag of weed.
I think there's multiple ways to do that. Where I live, there's
a bunch of people that sold flower to support their
lifestyle and then did a bunch of breeding for themselves and
their friends because that's what interested them. It's almost
like they had a commercial side of it, but then that funded
their interests.
Yeah, you grow up one commercial room to pay the mortgage and pay
the bills. Then you play in the other room.
Tough not to be interested. That's for sure.
Because my experience has been and I don't know about you guys,
but the older you get in the weed scene, in order to stay
excited and pumped to get into your room, I'm in my mid 40s or
whatever. Most of my friends, if you tell them, I want you to
monocrop this, they could do a good job, but they probably want
to just shoot themselves after a while because they'd be so
bored. Literally, my buddy...
You lose your passion.
Yeah, you're like, okay, I grow these two strains. I've dialed
it in. I figured out all the when to raise and lower the EC.
I figured out exactly how it likes to be grown. Now I'm just
making minor adjustments and steering the ship. I feel like
I'm a factory worker.
Yeah.
We're like seeds and all this other stuff. It brings joy.
Yeah, exactly. We need those people to produce weed for the
public, but that's not me.
Yeah, definitely not me.
I have to grow. I'm growing out seedlings. It's like Christmas
time when you start a new batch of seeds to see what's going to
come up. I'm like a little kid at Christmas wondering what's
under the tree.
Yeah, for sure.
I like to dial it in.
Yeah. He's more of a pick a few strains and dial it in. We all
need each other in the industry, but that's not my thing.
I mean, what I find hard about being a breeder or seed popping
or anything like that is that it's pretty small amount of
size seed pop you can do where you can honestly judge what just
happened. Because if you do a big seed pop and you want to
save it and you want to have backups and then you want to get
all your friends that you trust to help you smoke and test it.
You can do a big seed run, but eventually, how are you going to
judge those hundreds of plants?
Yes.
The problem is for me is that all the stuff that you can
visually see, you can be like, oh, that one has the structure
I like, that one has the leaf ratio, this one has the resin,
but the part that really will make a strain lasting or not to
me is invisible. You don't know how it's going to affect you or
taste until you try it. You can't look at it behind you and
be like, oh, that's going to be the one.
Yeah. In fact, also, what I like to do as well is after I did my
selections out of a phenohunt, you have to grow the clone of
the variety too, not just the seedling. After you see the
structures and different characteristics and you got to
put it through some stress.
You only get to see it one way, one time.
CSI and I talked about that a whole bunch where I got to a
point where I never flowered, like when I was testing seeds
inside, I never flowered the seed plant. I would take clones
and root all the clones and flower the clone because I would
see the seed plant once and it would never be that way again.
I was always interested, well, what is the clone going to do?
How is that?
Yeah.
Because that's going to tell you that you don't have that tap
root, you don't have that seed plant bigger, you don't have the
same stretchiness. It's just different.
Well, even now, even though I'm switching most of my rooms over
to LEDs, when I do my seed selection, because I've been
growing under HBS for decades, when I do my selecting in my
tester room, I do it under the HBS and I trim nothing off the
bottom. I leave all those shaggy bits at the bottom to
see how and I don't pinch it just to see how it grows
naturally.
Sure.
And that's what I've been doing for 25 years. So I want to see
what it does all on its own without any manipulation. And
then I make my selections. Just the way I've been doing it for
that's my way of doing it. Because and then after that with
the clone, then I start playing see if it ties down good how it
reacts when you pinch it.
I mean, because sometimes unless you see what it does, you won't
know what kind of manipulation to apply to get what you want
out of it. You know, if something if you don't pinch it
and something makes some incredible two and a half foot
long cola, you might not want to pinch it and go for all those
sidebuts. Yeah, yeah, you might want you might want to leave it
that way. You know, sometimes you might grow something and all
those bottom nugs end up nice and solid. You know, sometimes
they end up all leafy in a mess. And so if it's leafy in a
mess, you're like, Oh, I have to strip all that off to concentrate
it up top. But sometimes it'll make nice nugg all the way down
to the base without any effort. And you know, sometimes you have
to watch what the plant tells you.
Exactly. Yeah. I remember we had the first big plant I seen that
I was impressed with was actually breeder Steve's
shish kabari. Oh my god. Like it was like three feet tall. It was
one big giant cola and just you hardly seen any red hairs on it.
It was just big, green and crystally with almost no red
hairs. And what did it smell like? Right? Um, I always
wondered which is good Barry because I've never had like just
like you guys up there.
A little bit on the fruity side, I'd say. It was there was almost
too much resin that it cut out all the terpenes. There wasn't
no it wasn't okay. Turkey strains. I know what you mean.
Okay, you fucked up and it was huge. And my lime green, huge
lime green buds. I gotta I gotta hand Steve that one man. He he
nailed that one. That's why
and and it was a yeah, it was a it was a quality name. Yeah, I
mean people we can we can talk about all that. So you know,
sometimes what's funny about it is like a cool name goes a long
way.
For sure. And even even shish kabari like it's got a cool
nickname. You can just call it the shish. You know, like things
that like that matters. You know, there's so many strains
that I know that are just just kick ass, but they have a shitty
name and nobody buys them. Yeah. It's sad, but you know, what's
the if you could think of one strain, each one of you one
strain that you think should get more recognition than it
currently does? What what's this first strain that comes to your
mind?
So from Vancouver Island seed company, Jiffy Pod. Okay. And
from my own stuff, probably my first contact. The first
contact. Yeah, because it's high CBD and super turpy. But I don't
really sell I got a big bag of it. But I don't really sell many
seeds. And it's people don't know what they're missing on
that one. Yeah, it's just super, super turpy. You can just rub
your hand up against the leaves and you know, you're sticking to
it. And it's a nice buzz. Really nice buzz. It's not super stony.
But it's one of those quality when my son, when my son started
smoking weed, I that's the strain I gave him. Because I
wanted to hire CBD and lower THC. Yeah, yeah. 18 years old,
you got to get your head together a little bit and get to
work. So I told me if you want to smoke weed, do my first
contact. So but no, it's one of my one of my best strains that
I people don't buy a lot of and they should because it's it's
one of my best ones. But yeah, other than that strain of mine
and Jiffy Pod from from Vancouver Island seed company.
Those are the two right off the top of my head. Those are the
two I can think of.
What do you got Casey?
I'm all about the death Baba. I think we up here we got it's the
pre 98 death Baba cut it's called and it's just like
obnoxious kush gas candy like it's just amazing and the like
the medical benefits that come along with I don't know if it's
the mixture of terpenes or what. But it's phenomenal like even
for myself for nausea. Like it's just nice. Like it's one of
those strains that I could never if I had to pick one for the
rest of my life that would be it.
And you know what's in it?
If you give me a couple minutes I'll figure it out. I've got
test results. I just gotta dig them up.
I want to I want to say a long time ago somebody gave me seeds
of it. It was like a black dominant Baba maybe. But I think
that there's been a few over the years that have had that name.
So I always wonder like when people talk about the
Yeah, here's just we just call it the pre 98 cut. It's been a
cut that's been around for years and years and years.
Similar smell to the OG Kush.
Yeah, it's like super, super gassy.
I wonder if it's just our Baba down here the pre 98 Baba. Or if
it's a hybrid of the pre 98 Baba.
Yeah, I have no idea. I I have the OG Kush and I'm not a big
Kush guy. But everybody has it. I stick with my own strains. But
I like the high of OG Kush. I like the high of old OG Kush to
me is what always it like it. No matter what any cup I've ever
gone to where it's like a real legit cup. If someone brings a
really good cut of OG Kush, it's very hard for anybody to not
pick that one as the winner. Like it just seems to always be
the winner in the room for the high.
There's a few similarities as well with the cheese. I know
people have noticed that the cheese is a little more rank
smelling. Yeah, there is some similarities. When it's over
dried, you can really see the similarities with the cheese.
So in this death Baba, it's dominant is beta carophylene.
And then fennel, alpha humilene, isoborone, neol,
lemonene, beta mercine, pinine, alpha and beta pinene.
Complex. I think that just means it gets you fucked up.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's very complex is what it is. Yeah.
Yeah, like I've got salmon fishing on the ocean. Seasick
like puking two puffs straight me right out. Same thing. I had
knee surgery. Yeah, knee surgery come out of the hospital. They
knock you out for it. Yeah. And woke up dry heave and puke and
tried to grab all no no good. Out of the hospital to puff
straight me right out like pain management and stuff like that.
Like on the medical side of things like I think it should.
It should be everywhere. There's a company finally I think
bringing it out in Canada here pistol in Paris. They're going
to be launching it into the legal recreational market and
like I think it should be in the medical side of things for sure
like if they should do studies on it right. I'm gonna be
crossing it with my Romulan here on the next round as well. So
give it a try. He keeps raving about it for three years and I've
smoked it and it kicks my ass. Yeah, I'm gonna have to try it
like for nausea stuff. That sounds awesome. That sounds
killer. Yeah. No, yeah. If you can find it. It's it's something
else. Yeah. Not so what about you? Yeah, I'll take them. What's
a strain that you think has a like has a crappy name maybe or
whatever and doesn't sell is get the shine that it should. I mean
there's a bunch of them but I'll get like the dog shit.
Yeah. There's this there's there's this strain. It used to
be called in Minneapolis that had a way cooler name. It was
called electric boogaloo. And it's a little mysterious what it
is. But I think it might be like silver pearl by Hayes or it
might it's it's some kind of hazy hybrid from the early 90s.
Yeah. And it's one of those ones where like, you know, Matt and I
you know, we have some get togethers with a bunch of
friends, you know, and people gather from all over and
breeders come and stuff and it always ends up being one of
those ones that like everybody isn't it's in their top two or
three that they tried and they always can't figure out why it's
not more popular.
Yeah, it's definitely one of those ones. I you know, I was
talking about it the other night with someone I was like, I think
when it comes to elites, they're like everybody seems to love
Bubba. Everybody seems to universally for the most part
like OG kush and everyone likes electric boogaloo. And I can't
think of anything else that like some people like blueberry some
people don't some people you know, that like those three I
could think of.
I mean, I tend to think too that we're in such a commercial
industry in a way that people only want to grow what's
currently popular. Yeah. And so when you get old like we are now
or older, there's been all these great strains that have gone
through your hands that deserve their moment in the sun. But
they just don't get enough play because they're not currently
popular. They're not being cropped for production. People
aren't getting to try them that much. And so as a result of that
it has nothing to do with the quality of the plant itself. It
basically has to do with this weird hype and people's access
or not to it. You know,
and that's and that and then it ends up just getting saved by
heads and passed around and grown for personal and passed
around to friends and stuff like that. And everybody can't
believe what you know, and names are a huge thing. I'll tell a
story. There was this strain in Mendo that was made by a friend
and it was called it was made by everybody shot it was called big
wreck. It was big bud by train wreck. Okay. And it was frosty
and it was beautiful and it finished at the end of
September. It was really pretty, but nobody wanted big wreck.
Nobody was interested in big bud train wreck, right? Yeah. And so
one of my friends changed the name to Barry white. And as soon
as the name changed to Barry white, not only could they move
endless packs of it, but they got a premium. Now they got a
couple they got, you know, they got a couple hundred bucks more
than they should for other things. And it was all about the
name change. Nobody wanted big wreck, but Barry white. I want
some of that happened with that happened with us as well. A few
years ago, when I started working with the OG kush, we
just had it named as a cross and never sold. And then we are OG
kush crossed with the Romulan. We renamed it Ogopogo. And it
started flying off the shelves. I don't know if you know what
Ogopogo is. Yeah, it's out like our senior Loch Ness monster.
Yeah, exactly. And great strange.
Make a big difference. You know, I, I tend to think diesel is
one that I've noticed that like, it's it's one of the original
cameras, but for some reason, it's no one's ever hunted it and
everybody that had it dropped it for whatever reason, because
the name just never caught on. It's a dumb name.
I mean, it's it's and that's what I was saying before too
about how like a lot of weed access is kind of flashing the
pan, where it's like if you weren't there for those few
years, you might not have access to it at all. And so most of the
currently popular strains aren't nearly as good as the collection
of old school classics that some people have access to. There's
just not a proper way to market them and get them out there. And
people often want to do what's easy. Yeah, you know, and they
want to do what the brokers and the buyers and the market is
asking for. And so whatever that shift is, they'll just go
with that flow. And you know, you can end up having people
hundreds of people, hundreds of growers having some popular cut.
And then the market shifts and 10 years later, four dudes held
on to it. Yeah. And that's like the most common thing.
Well, thanks. I'm thankful for those four dudes. Yeah. Right.
I've gotten a lot of strains back from some old friends.
Strings that I thought were gone years ago and people come out of
the closet and say, Hey, I've still got a cut.
Yeah. What's really important actually is is people in like, I
don't know about Canada, specifically, but like in
America, people that like, you know, live in areas that like
don't change all that much. Right? So they can they can grow
their two or three little strains and they can sell them to
their friends and their friends are just stoked on getting really
high quality weed and the fads don't affect them. Yeah. That's
a lot of times who you find. Oh, I thought this thing was lost.
And they're like, No, I have it. You know, I never was forced to
change. And we still love it.
That's how I got my Hawaiian sativa back. Yeah. Good old boy
from rural Manitoba. So hey, I still have it. I bought it in
1999. And he gets beautiful cuts. Thank God for him.
Yeah, that's a great line. Classic, classic Hawaiian sativa
line. One of our buddies is I just gave all my seeds of it to
my buddy rings. And he just did a big pop of it. So he's gonna
be running a bunch of those and reproducing those too. Just to
see what he can find in them. But that's my favorite. I mean,
I never had a traditional Hawaiian line because it's
before my era. But out of all the lines I've ever had called
Hawaiian. That was the one I thought was the nicest. It was a
nice like sativa sweet, just had a really nice quality high
though. Really nice. Yeah, anything that I usually see now
that's called Hawaiian is not like it was back in the day.
Yeah, a lot of the Hawaiian from the 90s. I remember a real call
menthol. menthol flavor sativas. That's how I remember the
Hawaiian. Interesting. But nowadays, no, not don't get that
menthol flavor very much anymore. It was intense,
intensely menthol.
And that was during the 90s from Hawaii up there in Canada.
Yeah, yeah, I got with Federation seed company. We got
those those genetics from from Vancouver Island seed company
from from G man there. Yeah, he had a few different versions of
it a few different crosses. It was amazing. But he got it
straight from Hawaii.
I know we've touched on him briefly before, but it seems
like he had like a major major influence on your career at
least, and a few others around you and the strains in in
Canada in general, not just in Vancouver Island.
Yeah, he was a big influence for me, and a few other breeders on
the island. And a lot of the source genetics came from him.
He was growing since the mid 70s. And I was a youngster on
the scene coming in mid 90s. So yeah,
I'd love to talk to him about when he saw the first indica and
stuff like that since he was around during that time and what
his experience was with them. Has he ever told you about
anything like that?
Oh, yeah, we were weird. We grew side by side for years back in
the day, but he's kind of dropped off the planet here. And
I actually mentioned or I messaged him about two or three
months ago. And yeah, he hasn't gotten back to me.
So, yeah, hopefully he'll turn up because he sounds like an
interesting guy to interview.
Yeah, but you probably won't ever see his face.
That's funny. Old old school old old school. Yeah.
Yeah.
It's hard. It's hard for some people to turn off that decades
of programming. That's true. I don't want you to see my face. I
don't want you to see my name. I don't want you to have any
association. I mean, we even have friends of ours that will
come on the show and you know, they want to wear a mask or they
want to be in a dark room or, you know, they live in a state
that's not that permissive yet and they worry about it getting
you know, or even friends or family or you know, in some
cases, even the wives. Yeah, something like that. No. Yeah.
So everyone has a different perspective on what their own
safety is, or perception of
different era.
Yeah, for me, even like for been selling since mid 90s. And like,
didn't tell anybody anything like if you didn't buy off me,
I didn't know. And now to see all the brands that are popping
up, just because they didn't care or they would advertise or
whatever. Now they've got established brands years later,
where is myself like I didn't say shit with a mouthful to
anybody. And starting from scratch, right? A whole lot more
knowledge, but on the side, right?
I mean, when I when I was young in Chicago, like there was only
two or three people that knew I grew. And sometimes I would be
at a party. And off of one of those people, I would buy a full
price eighth or quarter. Yeah. So that way when friends saw me
with the weed, they knew where I got it.
They wouldn't they wouldn't think that I why you know, he
can't be the grower. I saw him buy it off a homie for 100 bucks
a quarter. Yes. Yeah.
That's true.
You know, it's it's one of those things where it was like, I mean,
we used to I used to I had a good friend of mine. I would pay
him to drive me to the growth store. Because he was straight
as can be. And if they ran his license plate, and they raided
him, he literally had nothing that was going to get him in
trouble. Yeah, that doesn't get him on anything, you know, and
so we wouldn't even go. We wouldn't even go to the growth
store with a car that was tied to any of the sites. Yeah. You
know, yeah. I didn't understand computers. And so when overgrow
and cannabis world and some of those first forums came out, I
was terrified to post. Yeah, because I didn't know if a
government agent could just like call me up and figure out like
exactly where I was posting from and where the computer was. And
I did so many good jokes I could pull right now and I'm just not
going to even medical licenses. Even medical licenses Canada
like I thought that was a joke like they were just like people
were signing up to get rated. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. I could have
went out and got a license and been legal. I just shut up and
kept doing what I was doing. And I was just I did not want to be
on that. I thought everybody was just eventually gonna get
pulled. I thought it was a big
Yeah, honeypot. You guys are ridiculous. Like you don't see
what's going on here. Yeah. But you know, it it that's
interesting, too. Because when I first ended up in Mendo, I
actually ended up on a legal medical program because my ex
had cancer. Right. And it was through the sheriff's department
and it was through the the health service of our county and
all that. And literally, like the sheriff was so cool back
then he burned like, the feds threatened to come in and take
all of his records because they wanted to know who was who. And
he burned them all. That's pretty funny. He literally shut
the program down and he burned all the files because he was
like, you're not going to come in and raid a bunch of sick
people. Nope. I don't know who it is. You don't know who it is.
Oops. Yeah. Yeah. So sometimes there were cool people.
A cool cop that's never heard of that before. That's crazy.
I mean, for a time.
Mendo. They exist. In theory. Yeah, they do exist. I mean,
they're humans like anybody else. They might be a
preponderance to one side or another. But I mean, weren't you
mentioning earlier on the show that like, you know, you were in
Spain, you were selling clones to cops?
Yeah, I never feared the cops when I lived in Spain. In
Canada, it's a whole different story. When you run into a cop,
you kind of look all straight and proper and pretend nothing's
going on. Guilty until proven innocent. In Spain. Yeah, no
fear of the cops. You can be you can walk up to a smoking a
joint and report, you know, something legit. I just didn't
fear cops there.
That would be nice. It's a whole different culture. Yeah, it's a
different culture. That's it. That's the thing. Yeah. As an
American, I often forget like, and not even just an American,
like where I'm from specifically is very cop heavy and
conservative. So I think that's in the worst place in
California. The worst like the worst. We have TV shows about
our police force being jackasses. You know, yeah, it's
not good. So like, my perspective is a little skewed
on police that I never really have any positive outlook. But I
forget like, yeah, other places. They are your peers. Like it's
not that same adversarial thing.
Yeah, when I was growing up on the prairies here in Canada, my
parents, they work for the police, they think janitors and
they did some guarding at the prison. And my dad told me after
years of working with him, he said, one out of five, he's a
good guy. He's there for the right reason. The other four.
They're just people who want revenge on society. But one out
of five is a good person there for the right reason. So just
hope you get one of those. One of those one out of five.
Yeah, I mean, if you if you get off having an unreasonable
amount of power off of people in most situations, that's not a
bad career for you. Yeah.
It draws people with that bent, you know? Yeah, exactly.
It does. I mean, Spain has always been interesting to me
because it's almost like the only place in in like Western
Europe that has a climate that's like, that's close to
where I live, to some degree. You know, when you look at the
map of how much sun Europe gets versus how much sun America
gets, it's unbelievable. How much sunnier large parts of
America are compared to Canada, or you know, or compared to
Europe, you know, and so, you know, did you get to grow any
any city? Did you get to was was Spain? Did you get to do some
outdoor there? Did you get to do? Oh, yeah, you get to try?
Yeah. A lot of all the strings that I couldn't do all the
strings that I couldn't grow outdoors here in Canada. I was
able to grow in Spain. And oh, wow. We're around the 50th
parallel here. And when I lived in Spain, we're on the 35th,
pretty much the same latitude as Northern California, like San
Francisco, where I live in Spain. And I was able to grow
all my city was by the first that's the first thing I did.
All my islands, we don't migrate through hazes, my Hawaiians.
First thing I did was planted those city was and I had a few
big properties there where I grow a bunch and then a few,
two patches in the mountains and then
some questions on that. Because that's one of the that's the
reason I brought it up was that I've done a bunch inside and I
you know, I obviously live in an area where I get to do a
bunch of sun grown to you were I would imagine you were
primarily indoor in Canada for a long time. Right? So then you
go over to Spain. Well, you were just talking about let's let's
just focus on the stuff that you couldn't grow outside in Canada.
Yeah, but you grew it inside in where in Canada because that's
where that's where it could finish. Were there strains of
yours that did things you didn't expect? Were there things that
when you've got to grow them in the sunlight, you found some
differences? Or you found some things that really surprised you?
You know, because no,
yeah, too much, actually. Maybe a little bit, but I'd already
been growing for about 1213 years before I moved to Spain.
So I kind of had a good feel for how my varieties performed in
different situations. Sure. Sometimes they wouldn't grow
outdoors on the island, but I would always had greenhouses. So
I had a good idea. So of what, what kind of what's going to
express itself in in the selection, but yeah,
and anything like notably different over there, like, is
that what we're trying to get at? Like the expressions like,
from? Yeah, like, I'll give you a couple examples. So like the
chem family that I run, and some different stuff like that, if
you grow it inside, it grows a certain way. If you grow it
outdoors, you'll get hot pink to magenta hairs on it quite a bit
that I'll never ever see inside. But then sometimes if you grow
it in the full sun, you'll get a leafy Afghan mess. Where if I
grow it, like say under like woven poly that takes out some
of the UV and I grow it smaller, like in a greenhouse, I'll get
like a more indoor expression.
Um, yeah, I noticed that was my Romulan. During my Romulan.
Yeah. And the time warp as well. outdoors in Spain. A lot of the
red hairs would come out on the Romulan that I never seen
indoors, or even in the greenhouse in Canada. Sure that
the red hairs in Spain just were popping out. It was it was a
beautiful, beautiful looking plant. Yeah. Other than that,
not a big difference in most strains.
Interesting, because I feel like indoor you can have you have
control over everything. But the light the you know, there's not
a better light that I've experienced than the sun. I've
tried all kinds of different combinations and mixed light
inside and you can kind of approximate it but like, it's
weird, like, I would bring a lot of my strains. And like some old
euros and stuff like that. Like Neville and Shanti and some old
guys actually told me this where they were like, if you want to
keep old moms healthy, try to give them three or four months a
year of sunlight. You know,
makes sense to me. Yeah, that makes sense. Yeah.
And I would take my plants in February or March and I would
put them into a greenhouse and I would think they looked pretty
healthy. And then after about a month of being outside, I'd be
like, man, these things are banging. These things are really
happy. These plants are really growing well. And so there's
something about like just that full spectrum, where it has all
the spectrums in space.
I will say indoor, I indoor I can kind of do the same kind of
trick though with the revenge, like a similar not maybe not as
as vigorous, because it's not the sunlight. Now, obviously,
plants prefer the sunlight because of the spectrum. But you
can get like that little bit of a vigorous rejump on plants with
revenge. At least I found like, especially for breeding and
stuff, old stock, old mom stock, a revenge does wonders.
Yeah, yeah, there's nothing nothing better than the sun. So
outdoor guys.
I mean, it's just it's one of those things where, you know, I
the only reason why I asked is because if you're stuck up
there, not stuck, but if you're in northern like, you know,
there's certain sativas, there's certain things that like, even
for my area, like, it doesn't stay nice into December. I
can't, I can't in my environment, you know, like I
can't grow certain equatorial stuff, and get away with it just
doesn't finish. And so then there's these, there's these
things where it's like, I the only thing I've ever experienced
with them is growing them inside. Yeah, because I can't
take a 1620 weaker and see what it does in a greenhouse. Yeah,
unless I've got added light, mad heat, and all these
different things that we typically don't around. You
know, so I was just curious if you like when he went there, did
he get to see different things from strains that like,
especially when you were talking about some of these like 16
week Mexicans and different things that you're crossing, if
you got to play around with those more because the weather
was just nicer.
Well, I really like playing with my grapefruit haze and my island
sweet scum. Those are the two strains that I can never finish
properly in Canada. And down there, I was growing monster,
monster plants, like four or five pounds of plant and just
that that lemony hazy flavour. And just branches and branches
of weight. It just can't and they did actually grow a lot
bit of a different structure than indoors. They're a lot
branchier, both of those strains. Indoors, maybe it's
because of growing technique indoors, keep the plants close.
Right.
Growing medium, even like your medium is so much different when
you're outside for the most part too, right? You're not just
growing in peat.
Yeah, well, actually I did do most of my plants were growing
in containers. So yeah, the soil was pretty similar. But yeah,
other than that, yeah.
What was the island sweet skunk again real quick?
What's that?
The island sweet skunk. What was that one again?
That was selected from Breeder Steve's sweet skunk.
What was his sweet skunk? Do we remember? Or did we not know?
Nobody really knows, I think. You have to ask Red or Steve
about that. Red would probably be the best source of info.
I may have.
He thought it was a Northern Lights.
NL5 Haze?
NL5 Haze. Maybe crossed Steve's grapefruit.
That's what I think it was.
I'm pretty sure that's what it is.
If I'm remembering, hopefully I'm not remembering it wrong.
But if I remember correctly, that's what Red thought it was
some NL5 Haze and it maybe at some point was added into
Grit-Got-Grapefruit or something like that added to it. And then
he was saying that there was a difference. Talking about Mark
Emery again, there was a difference between the original
sweet skunk and the NL5 Haze.
And then people gave seeds to Mark and he added the island
and he sold some different weird hybrids of it and stuff like
that.
I added the island.
You added the island.
Yeah.
When Mike and I started Federation, we had a clone of
the island sweet skunk or the sweet skunk that was going
around the city. We got a cut. We had to go to the city and
we got a cut. We made our own cross with it. And it is
island sweet skunk instead of sweet skunk.
Yeah. But you kind of had to because Steve did not want you
using his fucking name, right? Like Steve's like, don't use
sweet skunk.
Oh, no, no, he didn't like that very much.
Yeah.
But I was trying to give him credit for it. He didn't like
that.
Sure.
Yeah, back in the day, I get it. In the beginning, I was that
way too. And people would knock off my string and just rename
it.
Kind of bugged me a bit in the first years. But nowadays,
like, yeah, everybody is far in this far in it's like,
growing with genetics, somebody exactly copying you. It's a
compliment. It's not a rip. Yes. That's what I always felt like a
compliment was somebody would take your strain and grow it
themselves. I almost thought a bigger compliment was somebody
would take your strain grow it themselves, rename it as
something else. So they would get credit for it. If it was
good enough. You know, because every single person that's if
you never want anyone to grow your strains, then you can't
have a seed company. You can't let them out. You can't have
friends do it because that's the most classic thing in weed. Yes,
people are going to take it they're going to do what they
want with it. Always. They're gonna buy
before me. Yeah.
Yeah, it's just the most I mean, you know, I, you know, Neville,
you know, Neville got hella bitter, because he thought 90%
of the Amsterdam scene was people just buying and biting
his seed work. Yeah, he did. And then you know, and then you
don't get loot for that. Yeah. But that's the that and that I
think honestly, that's also what led to a bunch of seed
companies like never wanting to reveal what was in their actual
mix. Because they got tired of competing seed companies using
the exact same verbiage on their advertisements. Yeah, and the
exact same lineage. You know, so people started getting all
secretive about their about their mix and what was in it
what the sauce was and what they used. Because they didn't want
people to know.
That's the way she goes. That's the way it works. Did you have
anything else on your list that you wanted to get in? Because
you're like two hours in? I mean, if there's anything else
you had written down that you wanted to get on this episode?
Heck of a lot. Just to let the people know we have good outdoor
strains, whether they're auto flower or feminized. Springtime
is coming up. So get your seeds now.
Absolutely. And what's your website? Where's the best
retailer to get them?
Next Generation Seed Company.com. We have very few
other resellers right now. Because we do a lot of bulk
sales to other companies, and LPs and big farmers in the
States. So people are looking for bulk seeds. We have that or
we just have packs as well.
And you mentioned you have a phone number too that people
could call. That's not super common. What's the number?
It's I believe I sent you a text. I can look it up in one
second. It's a Canadian number.
Is it the one that you texted me from?
I'm sorry, one second here. Yeah, it's Taylor. When you call
the phone number on our website, it's my partner Taylor. And
he'll, he's great talking to people. He'll probably throw
you something free if you give him a call. But it's
yeah, Taylor's awesome.
17807827804.
Okay, there you go. Anybody you want to get your Canadian seeds?
And maybe maybe you're not even in Canada. Maybe maybe you're in
the US and you're in a climate that needs that that mold
resistance. It's awesome stuff. You know, there's all the hype
out there. And then there's the solid stuff that's been around
forever. So don't don't buy the hype. Anyways, that not so you
want to get anything else?
I just always like talking weed with people. So I'm always
appreciative of people's time.
And we loved having you guys. Yeah. And we need to do a hash
episode. So you're welcome back on bro. Like, we need to get a
full
hash master here. Yeah, dude.
For sure. Well, I appreciate your guys's time so much. And
yeah, I need to get to editing so we can get this thing out
tomorrow.
Yeah, we're going awesome. Good.
Yeah.
Want to sit at the table with the syndicate? Check out our
Patreon and our link tree or description below. Our merch
site is officially live. We have all sorts of shirts, hoodies and
goodies to sort you out and shipping is super fast. And most
importantly, the quality is top notch. I've been saving old
designs for years for this purpose. So please check it out
syndicategear.com. We also have an underground syndicate
discord where we get together and solve old strain history
together daily. It's an amazing community of learning away from
IG and it's an amazing resource for old catalogs and knowledge.
We hope you join our union of breeders and growers. Come check
it out.
