Welcome to Breeder's Syndicate, where we explore the history of a clandestine scene
through the eyes of the folks who lived it.
I'm Matthew, owner of Riot Seeds.
I'll occasionally be joined by my co-host NotSoDawg, breeder and grower from Mendocino.
Welcome to the Underground.
One of the things that we might start with is just sort of like, we keep getting questions
on, you know, we talk a lot about on various shows, and it's certainly a big thing on Instagram
and other places of media, of like, how many different directions the scene is going that
we don't like.
Yeah.
Right?
And, you know, we've, so we've spent a bunch of time talking about like various effects
and all that.
And then people keep suggesting, well, what if we talked about things that we could do,
or, you know, on that level or something constructive, something constructive, perhaps,
or something that like, even someone who's not very connected or whatever, on any level
could accomplish.
Right?
And so that like, that resonated with me pretty good, because it is better to talk about constructive
things, you know, than it is to, I mean, it's important to like, discuss the problem so
people know what's going on.
Right?
But then it's like, it can definitely seem insurmountable.
It does.
And right now is a really easy time for it to feel insurmountable when there's so many
different problems coming at cannabis in general from so many different directions as we see
it.
Yeah.
And so, you know, I kind of do this thing fairly often on the Discord where I'll throw
out some questions for everybody to see what they want to hear talked about.
And, you know, sometimes people come up with some pretty good, some pretty good angles
on things on top of that.
So we might delve into that too.
But I don't know, you know, yeah, how to change things where we're at.
Right?
So I think maybe what's really happening is that anytime, you know, people really aren't
adapted to fast change.
Yeah.
Right.
So there's been a lot of changes happening really fast.
And I think it makes people's heads turn to some degree.
And it's happening fast enough that like, you know, I don't know if you think this way,
but it's almost like every year or two is like a different scene.
Yeah, especially now.
Where that like that maybe took like five or ten years for like things to like seem
dramatically different on any level.
And big strain changes and stuff like that.
Yeah.
Like strain, you know, strains that got popular had a longer, had a longer like runtime of
popularity.
You know, the laws change slower, you know, pricing and just, you know, there's a lot
of things that just seemed a little bit more stable.
And now everything's kind of rapid fire.
Yeah.
Right.
There's rapid fire change.
And that makes people uncomfortable.
Right?
Yeah.
People are people are talking about there's a bunch of stuff going on like right now on
the internet of like, you know, the community is trying to figure out like, well, who can
you partner with all these changes going on?
What is ethical?
Yeah.
What's ethical for the for something that's been black market and illicit and clandestine
for so long?
It's a different time, kind of.
So what is OK?
Things that weren't OK before that would get you blacklisted may not be the same today.
Yeah.
So, I mean, and some of that is just some of that is just changing culture.
I mean, you know, I don't want to be like old man yells at cloud, you know, or whatever,
because changes change.
But sometimes, you know, there's different forces now than there used to be.
Right.
You know, and maybe the best way to put it in a nutshell is that, like, before all the
forces against us were pretty much in prohibition.
Yeah.
To a large degree.
Right.
Yeah.
And I've even been giving this some some thought because there's people that are getting roasted
now for some of the people they're partnering with and stuff like that.
And they're fighting back.
And I even think to some degree, like maybe the way that people fight back against those
people like Matt, even for somebody like you who like it used to be very effective to call
somebody out in the community.
Yeah.
You know, I don't know if that's even the most effective path anymore.
Yeah, I don't think it is.
And it's hard sometimes for people who have a past of doing that constantly, you know,
you know, one way to handle certain situations.
But I think now it really is a lot of beating your head against the wall.
Yeah.
I mean, people are throwing out the names and stuff like that that's going on.
And, you know, what it's really exposing is that, you know, there's there's never been
like this uber ethical time in weed.
Yeah.
It's always been full of shady characters, you know, for a long time.
It was criminal in various regards, you know, and so some people, you know, some people
were in it just because they felt like that was silly and they loved weed.
Yeah.
And, you know, some people are in it because they're criminals.
Yeah.
Too, you know, and that was just another criminal shit to do or whatever.
And some people are in it for repping money and some people are in it for the plant.
Everyone wants to say they're in it for the plant.
Yeah.
I mean, that's a good thing to say.
It's a good talking point, but it isn't necessarily true for everyone.
But what people are noticing is by people's associations now, right, now you're starting
to realize, well, like, where do those ethics lie?
Right.
And so there's and, you know, and it's gone back.
I mean, Matt, Matt remembers even like when Colorado first went legal, there was people
in Colorado that should remain nameless that got into battles with buddies of ours about
like, well, you know, go legal.
That's the option.
And if you don't, then you're unfair competition.
And it's not even snitching or ratting to like get you gone.
Yeah.
Because you're just untaxed.
You're not paying the same dues I am like you're refusing to take the path.
And so that was like a massive split in the community.
That was a that was a very big turning point in the community when when it became possible
to snitch people out to med boards and not necessarily the police.
And at what point is.
Yeah.
Or, you know, or doxing.
Or doxing.
Or doxing.
Yeah.
It's just a just a variety of pressure tactics to get people off their back, because a lot
of times, you know, really what it boils down to is there's people that are making all kinds
of choices about their own personal future and their friends.
Right.
And in some cases, like when they get exposed, they don't want to be exposed because they
feel like that might hurt their customer base.
Sure.
Yeah.
Right.
Or seed sales potentially, which could hurt their ability to partner with some of these
people because they have to be useful to these bigger powers.
Yeah.
And stuff like that.
Right.
And so so there's an aspect now where it's like there's a lot of there's a lot of secret
snitching.
There's a lot of doxing.
There's a lot of like through proxies or whatever.
And how so kind of what's happened is now is like the community has sort of lost the
ability to police itself.
Right.
I can't even believe that word.
But it's like now people are like, you know, it's acceptable to work with police.
Yeah, it is.
You know, like and be like, oh, you know, and yeah.
So I mean, that's about as 180 degree sea change as you can possibly imagine.
Yeah.
Right.
And so we're again, we're discussing issues now.
But really what it boils down to is so I look at it and I talk about it in my head.
Like I think about this a lot.
Right.
Where my whole life they've been telling me for in regards to cannabis that it's bad for
you to have it.
You can't have it.
You can't have it.
You can't have it.
You can't have it.
Right.
Yeah.
And we've all been fighting in this in this community.
Like, you know, the overgrown overgrow was named.
Right.
For people that don't know the first real weed forum overgrow was named because the
concept was overgrow the government.
Yes.
Like if too many people start growing and so many people start disobeying and people
refuse to respect the law, then eventually they'll have to change the law so that people
keep respect for other laws.
Yeah.
So that was like the whole theory, right?
Was like, was, you know, was overgrow.
Yeah.
Okay.
And so now we have-
That comes from Warner, or no, I'm sorry.
Not Warner.
Keys?
No.
Keys Hocker?
Hocker?
You know, one of my friends might chime in.
I'm not sure.
It's old school.
Yeah.
It was him and Wernard, Mellow Yellow.
The whole thing, his big thing was to get a bunch of hemp plants, give them out for
free hemp clones and say overgrow the government.
Here's how we're going to do it.
I'm giving away all the hemp plants.
Before 1996, when California actually passed proposition 215, which was the first medical
in the country.
And it was the first place to take it from totally illegal to like a path towards like,
you can call it a gray area.
Do you remember when they used to push for like, to get like hundreds of thousands of
hippies to move to Wyoming?
Yeah.
Because it was so lightly populated, we could probably affect the vote.
And people were trying to figure out, well, what state can we actually get some movement?
Yeah.
Right?
What state can we actually get something?
And now we've overgrown to the point where people are looking around at prices and how
to survive and all the various things that are happening.
And then like, maybe, man, maybe we overgrew a bit too much.
Yeah.
And so that aspect, that price dive, that worry that we talk about, that's caused a
lot of people to look around and choices are being made.
Yeah.
Right?
Yeah.
People are mentioning certain choices right now.
I mean, when we're talking about choices, you can go back to even the roll up of how
it worked and how the community reacted when we saw things like Icy Mag and Heaven Stairway
get taken down.
He was mentioning Shebang.
That was one of the people that got taken down for, I believe, running Icy Mag and Heaven
Stairway somewhere?
I hear that.
When that happened, and was that 05?
Somewhere.
Icy Mag was later, but Heaven Stairway was right about 05.
I mean, Heaven Stairway that got like Cannabis World and Overgrow taken down.
Yeah.
But it's all part of the same bus.
It's all part of the same thing.
When that happened, I got scared enough of the internet.
I honestly didn't really start poking around again until social media really came back
on in the mid teens.
Yeah.
I was just scared off it for a while.
That makes sense.
I got scared off Icy Mag once the cops seized the servers.
Usually, Shebang is actually, there's paperwork right now and he's in trial.
So yeah, he did get busted, unfortunately.
He got busted with the server.
Cops don't tend to give servers back when they take them either.
A lot of people need to keep that in mind.
So there's an aspect of, people are asking, well, what can we do to change things positively?
Yeah.
Right?
And there's an aspect where I'm not big on mentioning names on the show or whatever.
There's a bunch of comments going on, but obviously there's a lot of stuff going on
recently on IG and people are talking about associations that people are doing.
Yeah.
Right?
Well, you can vote with your wallet.
They're going to try to hide their work and off in different brands and different this
and different that.
You can figure out who they are and you can not spend your money on them.
Yeah.
Right?
They essentially need an enormous amount of consumer money to stay afloat.
Always.
They're all doing this because they think this is the best money play for themselves.
So the way to hurt them is to deny that money play.
Yeah.
Right?
Is that, you know, you can, so, you know, maybe, maybe I'll continue my thought or whatever.
So my whole life, they can't have it.
You can't have it.
You can't have it.
Right.
And now we're at this point where they're like, man, this thing's kind of cool.
I mean, we'll take it from here.
Yeah.
So to me, the fight hasn't changed.
Really.
The fight has just shifted.
We used to fight for access and acceptance.
Yeah.
Right.
That was the big fight.
Access, acceptance, and the ability to do that without getting in trouble just because
it's a plant.
It's fucking stupid.
Yeah.
Now we're kind of getting there.
Yeah.
We've made way faster expansion on access and safety and the ability to use it.
And I think within a number of years, a lot of these like piss testing for jobs will go
away.
I think there was something announced today about that, right?
In the news?
I'm not sure actually, but it's going to go away soon because so many states are making
it legal.
It's just going to, you know, and then wide varieties of people are going to be able to
start using it without penalty.
Yeah.
It has something to do with jobs not being able to discriminate in legal states where
there's medical cannabis.
And yeah, they're not allowed to discriminate against legal cannabis, if I remember correctly.
So here's the gig.
As it shifts from like safety and freedom and access, right?
And the right to do so.
Now it's going to shift to like who controls it, who sells it to you, like who, you know,
like that really who controls it?
That's the fight.
And it probably will be a fight that we're battling.
But what people have to remember, it's dark days right now.
And it's like a lot of people that are like deeply in the cannabis industry are hurting
pretty bad.
Yeah.
Which is why I think it's causing some of these desperate moves.
Yes.
Right.
Is that when it comes down to it, there's people that like they want to survive, they
want to make money.
And if they have to deal with the devil, they will.
Right.
I would like to throw out there that, you know, when it comes down to it, that we are
winning.
Right.
It's just that the fight has shifted.
You know, like we were fighting.
Huh?
Who's we that's winning?
Well, I mean, in the sense that like, you know, imagine 15 years ago, if you thought
that like 38 or 40 states in America would allow recreational or medical cannabis.
Right?
There's more access for more people now than ever before.
Yeah.
Right.
So we're not happy with the direction the scene is going.
But that's because our previous goal, we were all pretty united on, we want this thing to
be available and accessible and not get people in trouble.
And we want to be able to smoke and share weed.
Yeah.
And now it's gone into like this economic thing where people are like, when you think
about I don't want to say corporations, because that's just like a group of people or whatever.
But when you think about big business, say, they're going to want to control it.
They're going to want to patent it.
They're going to want to make it look at all the recreational stuff going on.
It's not exactly legal.
It's more like highly regulated, tightly taxed and controlled.
Yes.
You know, nothing, nothing decriminalized about it.
Yeah.
I mean, if I want to grow a bunch of vegetables or tomatoes or fruit or anything like that
in my backyard, I can do that.
I can grow as many tomatoes as I want.
I can cross tomatoes.
Every person on this thing tonight, I could send them tomato seeds.
Yeah, you could send them thousands of tomato seeds.
Yeah, we could all trade and share and post pictures of our hybrids and our this and our
that and everything else.
And it would be free.
No one would give a shit.
That's legal.
Mm-hmm.
What we have is like, so what we have going on right now is that, you know, if you have
a six plant limit in your state, you basically can't breed.
Yeah.
You can't keep mom stock.
You can't have a normal amount of plants that a person, even a hobbyist.
And this, to me, this is where the term legal legalization was bastardized and a lot of
uneducated, because even when I was 15, even when I was 15, I knew that once corporations
got their hands dug in deep enough to be able to take over immediately, that's when they're
going to flip the bill.
Even as a 15 year old kid, I realized that's how the world works.
That's how corporations work.
But I did not expect them to push it under the guise of legalization because even today,
any, any average citizen who doesn't grow but smokes.
And if you ask them if weed is legal, they're going to tell you yes.
99% of the time, they're going to tell you yes.
And they don't even know what's happening to the real grower side of the aspect that
there's nothing legal about being able to grow it.
They're making it legal in the sense to possess or whatever, but you still have to go to approved
stores and buy it from approved vendors.
And as we both know, that invites corruption at all these different levels.
And so strangely, and this might be like from a capitalist perspective, this might be one
of the first cases that I know of of this, where it's like the legalization of something
led to a massive drop in quality and a massive increase in price.
Hmm.
Yeah.
I don't know about the massive increase in price with the drop in quality.
That's a hard one.
You know, well, I mean, there's think about how many people are buying like 70 and $80
eighths.
Yeah.
Right.
Yeah.
And think about how expensive all that stuff is now.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And I mean, there's plenty of cheap too, but it's like the taxes.
I mean, I saw that thing where, you know, they broke down like how much an eighth is
and like the farmer gets three bucks and the tax man gets 21 bucks and the dispo gets
20 bucks and then the fricking dispensary gets 40 bucks and you end up paying 80 bucks.
Yeah.
You know, it's that is preposterous.
There's like three layers there.
There's the government, there's the distribution and there's the store and they're all, you
know, pillaging because they can.
I paid attention when I was a kid.
I watched that movie Robin Hood.
And I remember there was a sheriff of Nottingham.
And I remember they would bug people for money.
And I kept that with me growing up.
And I was like, wow, this tax thing is a scam, isn't it?
Like at some level, at some level, the way it works now, we've all been conditioned to
think that this is what we need to do.
And I agree to have society people need to pitch in.
But I mean, what I think has happened is like, you know, it's one of those things where
any time any kind of vice becomes more acceptable, they want to give money to cops in schools.
Yes, obviously.
Like, they're just like, well, you know, here's funding for various groups.
Right.
And so we're going to tax the shit out of this vice or whatever it might be.
We're going to have to appease the other voting half.
And you know, they they made taxes based probably on like a much higher pound price than people
are getting.
Yeah.
And they're not getting anything in that regard.
So, you know, so it's not really so that's really what's happened is like in the 2015
era, anybody could grow whatever they wanted.
And if they had a medical card and they grew good enough weed, they could walk into a medical
dispensary and they could make a deal.
Yeah.
And that allowed a wide variety of things to proliferate.
I mean, one of the one of the aspects of the person that's getting shit talked about this
week is that not only are people upset at like the associations that he's making.
Right.
But he but, you know, a lot of the genetics that people, you know, he sold his genetics
for a high dollar and there were there was a nurse reaction and there was a lot of disease
and viroid involved.
A lot of viroid, which we will be doing a show September 8th about the hoplite and viroid
and everything you'd ever want to know inside out.
We're going to try to cover.
Yeah.
It's it's it's the new, you know, with all it takes is poor practices at a facility and
especially at a nursery and not and a lack of care and spending on testing.
And you can nuke you can spend so many gardens and get infected.
Yeah.
We've had friends who have lost whole collections time and time again because of this virus,
because it's not really a viroid, because it's not easy to clean.
And that's you know, that's a that's a that's a that's a product, to be honest, of legalization,
but without proper regulation.
Yes.
You know, you know, I mean, on a certain level, it's like, you know, using using razor blades
on multiple plants is sort of like using tattoo needles on multiple customers.
Or junkies share needles.
It's the same whatever it is.
It's the same gig.
It's like unless it's sterilized in between or use a fresh one for the next like it's
got to be kind of that kind of of of environment now.
Yeah, because it's written it, you know, and so there's an important another reason to
not forget to buy seeds.
We should not let the seed industry die.
So yeah, I mean, that's that's another thing is that maybe one I don't know my comments
have totally frozen.
I haven't seen I haven't seen any new comments in a bit.
So people are typing stuff in.
It's like for the last five minutes, it's just not done jack.
So I apologize if I'm not seeing anything.
But you know, there's it used to be that the 215 era and sort of the gray market era allowed
a lot of capitalistic activity allowed a lot of small businesses a lot a lot of garage
sized growers, independent breeders, you know, various types, you know, pretty low bar to
entry.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No, and now that that's all getting now that's all getting like, you know, legalized or whatever
else it's barring entry to a lot of people.
Yeah.
So, you know, I do think I do think that the I do think that all the public commentary
this week calling out certain people is one of the better ways.
I mean, someone asked, Well, how do you educate the public?
Right.
So some of it is like just like the stuff that we're doing right now.
We do we do a show that's not like that.
That's not all about us or whatever.
And we try to talk about different, different aspects of the weed industry and different
content and some history and different things because educating people is the best way to
get people on your side.
Right.
And I talk about Matt with Matt all the time about this where it's like, you know, we really
have to like build a coalition.
Yeah, it's going it's going to be political in a way or a syndicate.
Or a syndicate, as the case may be.
But we have to we have to build a syndicate of like minded people and they can be pretty
diverse.
And the important part is that we don't want to eliminate a ton of people.
We want to like have a general set of goals.
Yeah.
Be all inclusive.
And, you know, whether whether your politics or this or that, like, you know, you've got
to be relatively accepting of people that share those same basic goals.
Yeah.
Right.
And so for me, those basic goals are like, not only do I want me to be legal, I want
it to be easily accessible.
I want it to be high quality.
And I want people to be able to do what they want with it.
Yeah.
You know, and so I feel like, you know, I know that you rolled your eyes for a second
when I said, oh, we're winning.
But in a sense, you know, because it does feel like for cannabis industry people, it
does feel like a pretty dark time.
Right.
There's a lot of change happening fast.
The pricing, which used to like fuel the insurgency, if you will.
Yeah.
Like, you know, I mean, there's an aspect where it's like it was so hard for anybody
to beat the Taliban.
Right.
Because they had a bunch of heroin in the hash.
Yeah.
And so they were able to fund their shit.
Right.
And so when prices were higher, the insurgency in America, as far as like, you know, weed
rights or whatever, was was better funded.
Yeah.
As the price falls apart and various things, a lot of people start to struggle.
You know.
But then, you know, the side benefit is a lot more people get into it.
Yeah.
Right.
So like the coalition can get way, way, way bigger than it ever was before.
Yeah.
Right.
So that's an advantage.
It might be scary for all of us, like who depend on it solely.
Right.
Yeah.
Because change is scary.
But so what it boils down to is the reason why I said we're winning is because for half
my life, they told me we couldn't have it.
And now they want to steal it from us.
But they weren't successful in preventing anything we wanted to do before.
Yeah.
Even though we had to battle them for a long time to eventually get to where we wanted
to go.
Yeah.
So I don't view it.
I don't view it all that much different than that.
Yeah.
It's just like the goals and the and the idea has changed.
Yeah, sure has.
Right.
We're going from like access and and freedom and not being jailed and all that to like,
now we get to choose like, well, how do we want weed to look?
How do we want it to be like?
Right.
And, you know, so there's there's an aspect of it where it's like, I feel like people
have had access to most, except there's a couple of people on here who disagree, but
there's most people have access to pretty good weed.
Yeah.
Right.
Shout out to Dickie.
Yeah.
There's some there's some there's you know, there's some people sadly that have been exposed
to a bunch of jank, if you will, and are unhappy with their access to weed.
But lots of people's access to weed has gotten much better.
Yeah.
Clone trading is easier, even if you don't have I mean, I don't like clone sellers all
that much to some degree.
But to be honest, like if you it might be a lot of people's only way to get at certain
things.
Yeah.
Right.
So it's available and it's out there and it's like it's not it's not it's like you can build
a collection now with some money.
Yeah.
And if you don't have finances, you can at least be given the illusion that you're getting
something with.
Yeah.
And that's and in some ways that's more that could be that could be as satisfying as waiting
around to get into the right groups for years and years before you start getting some access
to some of this stuff.
Yeah.
So even though it's negative in some ways, there's positive in other ways, because my
whole goal with weed is more people smoking better weed.
Yeah.
Right.
And, you know, people are talking about I can barely find weed without the fucking cookies
bottleneck.
Right.
And that's hard.
And that's fair.
That's that's fair, because really, I mean, we were we're going to jump around, I guess
a little bit if we start talking about that.
But basically, that's the fight.
OK.
And so Instagram, we like to get into a lot of petty fights with one another.
OK.
There might even be someone that like, you know, has participated in a petty fight every
now and again.
Asshole.
Some of them are good.
Some of them are good natured and good hearted.
Some of them are a little bit more, you know, but we got to pick our battles because it's
like, you know, you might be battling with someone, but like both of you were like, well,
I don't believe in working with cops.
Yeah.
So we have this consensus, right?
Right.
Where, you know, we want a consensus of better weed.
And I'll tell a story for a second, because there's an aspect of this that I think is
the truth is, you know, when when we made alcohol illegal with the with the whatever
amendment it was.
Right.
Yeah.
For a bunch of time, only the only the mob and everybody else ran alcohol.
Yeah.
And then there was so much drinking and so much lawlessness around it that they basically
repealed it because it was better to have it legal than illegal.
Yeah.
They overgrew, over drank, if you were.
They didn't overgrow.
And so now we are seeing a lot of tax dollars go out the side.
Yeah.
And so, but then there's an aspect, right, where for the next like 50 or 60 years after
they legalized it, they forced a bunch of shit beer on America.
Oh, near beers.
Just, you know, when I was in, just even in the 90s, when I was going to bars in Chicago,
like the nicest beer was Heineken.
I wonder if during Prohibition, alcohol got cheaper when it was legalized or if it got
more expensive, but the quality, I guess there was a bunch of shit cheap.
There was a bunch.
So I guess what I'm basically saying is that it broke the quality.
It broke the relationship to quality for a while, right?
Decades even.
And everybody could choose between Coors or Michelob or Budweiser or Old Style or frickin,
you know, Keystone or, you know, it was all cheap, shitty pilsners.
Yeah.
Right.
And then there was this revolution that happened, which was basically like people deciding,
well, what if we just brewed good beer?
Yeah.
Right.
Microbreweries.
Yeah.
And now, you know, the Budweiser, Budweiser makes half the barrels.
It makes a Budweiser now that it did in the 90s.
Yeah.
Half.
And it was one of the biggest beer companies in the nation.
You know, they ended up buying 15 or 18 microbrews.
Yeah.
Because they want, they didn't want to lose their micro, their, their share.
But what I mean by that is that what's going to come is people are going to try to start
selling really cheap, really shitty weed for expensive.
Yeah.
And hoping that's your only option and you just deal with it.
Yeah.
And a lot of people don't know that there are better options, you know, to weed.
And you're going to these like, you know, legal states or whatever that are, you know,
maybe some of them don't have the greatest history that some of the more fortunate states
do in terms of like large amounts of growers and access to really good weed.
They might have had, you know, Mexican or Beesters or, you know, sort of a low grade
of what comes from the better states, you know, shipped to their state and now it's
legal.
And so you have to push for, you have to push for better weed.
Yeah.
You know, because they're going to try to sell you okay weed for high prices.
Yeah.
And you have to vote with your dollars on better weed, you know, and then if you're
If you can't find better weed, then grow your own and keep your dollars in your pocket and
spend it on something else.
Yeah.
You know, and then eventually if enough people don't buy shitty weed, they'll have a really
hard time with shitty weed.
I just think that's such a utopian way of, I mean, it's true.
This is true what you're saying.
It is logic and it's true.
I just think it's such a utopian view to hope that that will happen.
Why?
So here's the thing.
Because Walmart is the biggest supplier in the United States.
Yeah.
Okay.
And here's the gig.
There's nothing wrong with that either because there's plenty of people out there that probably
can't afford the quality of weed that we like to smoke.
Sure.
Right.
And so they might have to get lesser quality weed.
Yeah.
So there's stuff like that.
There is always going to be an existence of the low quality.
Or there could be some people that are like, I'm fine with this weed and I'm going to put
it in a metal pipe with a screen that I never clean and it gets me high and I don't care.
Or mix it with tobacco and fucking.
Yeah.
Or mix it with tobacco or whatever.
Yeah.
And that's okay too.
I'm not trying to be some snob.
But what I'm saying is, is that like when I was, when I was a kid, okay, the only way
you could get organic food was like on dead tour or like crunchy organic co-ops.
Yeah.
Right.
You know what I'm saying?
And now there's Whole Foods and there's all these high end stores and there's organic
food in almost every normal grocery store.
Yeah.
Right.
And they did a better grade and they were willing to pay more for it.
And now all of a sudden it's everywhere.
When I was in the nineties, you could not find organic food in a normal grocery store.
Oh no.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You couldn't.
Yeah.
You fucking couldn't.
You had to go find some hippie crunchy store.
Maybe it existed and maybe it didn't.
You know?
And so, you know, you say, oh, we can't do that.
Walmart's the biggest we can because we did it with food.
Yeah.
And you know, it wasn't just hippies.
Here's the thing.
One of the things that people got to realize, right, is that hippies did not make organic
food a household name.
Yeah.
Yuppies did.
Yes.
Hippies provided the basis.
But there's these fucking yuppies, right?
And they look around and they're like, I drive a European sports car.
I have Italian leather shoes.
My wife is hot and gets plastic surgery.
Like I make a lot of money a year.
I have a vacation home in Breckenridge.
Why am I shopping at the same place that everybody else shops?
I want nicer food.
Yeah.
You don't think they're not going to want fucking 120 day haze at some point?
Some of the first places I saw organic stuff popping up in California was places like Santa
Barbara.
You know, like, like really well to do areas in like beach communities.
I started seeing lots of organics.
And now it's now it's spread everywhere.
So there's I mean, so there's there's enough people that are going to want high grade,
good smoking weed to have a huge market of high grade weed.
It doesn't have to be the whole market.
You know, it has to be enough of the market to supply that small craft.
Right.
But yeah, but but the thing is, is that like all those yuppies that I just mentioned that
did that organic food, what kind of weed do you think they want to buy?
The thing is food is different than weed.
Food.
Food.
One is it's necessary.
Everybody eats food.
Not everybody smokes weed.
Everybody's eaten food their whole life and have experience with quality.
Not everybody has smoked weed their whole life and has experience with quality to no
quality when they're getting it.
I mean, you could see I could see yuppies buying $80 cookies, eights and these baggies
and thinking they're getting the supreme quality and they can be they can be confused into
it.
And I think we're going to see a lot of that because they would have to search out the
education.
You can't force education on these people.
It's going to it's going to take time.
It will take time in the organic food case.
We're talking over a 20 or 30 year period.
Yeah.
Right.
And what's going to be left in 20 or 30 years with weed and strains and all these things
that we're going to lose over that 20 to 30 year period because none of the people that
run these grows that are going to be able to survive and compete monetarily are going
to be the ones keeping these old strains with these special qualities.
So you're correct.
And I'm not trying to be, you know, remember that we're trying to make the theme is like,
what can people do?
Rather than like, give up hope and like, we're not trying to we're not trying to drink bleach
tonight.
So, okay.
Yes.
So the aspect is, is that there's going to be a ton of people out there that smoke weed
don't rely on weed entirely for their income.
Yeah.
There are lots of people out there.
Okay.
That can save a few strains in their collection as a hobbyist.
Sure.
Right.
There are, there are people that can buy one or two packs from their favorite readers and
that, and that adds up like, you know, when, when I'm talking about food in the nineties,
think about like all these heirloom vegetables that just popped out of nowhere.
They were maintained by like a dedicated group of traders and like, and enthusiasts without
very much, without very much money in it for a long time.
That's very true.
Now the risk is, is that they, their shit wasn't highly regulated and taxed and illegal.
Like I said, they could grow fucking 45 different kinds of tomatoes in their backyard and trade
it with all their friends and mail it all over the place and trade seeds and no one
gave a shit.
Yeah.
And they haven't let us do that yet with weed.
So they're making our job fucking harder.
Yes.
That's right.
They're making it harder.
I'm not saying it's easy.
It's fucking hard.
Like I have a big, I have a big mom collection, right?
It's fucking expensive.
It sucks.
It's tough.
It's, it's hard.
It's, it's fearful.
And you know, we're still paying electric bills from years ago.
Oh my fucking God, dude.
So I don't even want to talk about that.
But there's an aspect where there's, you know, there's 215 people listening to us right now
or whatever.
If each person decided there's one or two strains I love and I'm going to try to make
sure this one stays alive and then thousands of people start to do that, then not everyone
has to hold on to everything.
That's very true.
But if a couple of people, if enough people decide to hold on to the electric boogaloo
and a couple of people decide to fucking hold on to, you know, chem 91 and these people
decide to hold on to some Hayes and you know, I mean, honestly, the way that I don't lose
shit, because I do lose shit is I try to find people that love certain things.
And these four or five, these four or five things, they grow and they love.
I'm not asking them to hold on to anything that they don't love.
Yeah, but they don't want to lose it either.
They're in love with it, right?
They want to have, you know, it's one of the ways that all these things survived, you know.
And, you know, and there's an aspect to it, too, where I did this for a long time.
And now all of a sudden, a bunch of the stuff that I have is like in demand or whatever,
because it's old and it's like, there's not that many people that have held it that long.
But everyone on this thing has the ability to do that to one or two things.
There's a constant thing like when we were throwing our little can illuminati parties
before COVID fucked everything up.
I would mostly, honestly, guys, I would mostly grow one or two or three things for the market.
But then I'd have a section of the greenhouse or whatever that was just like my heads.
Yeah, it's dash.
And I probably brought, what did I bring?
Like probably 20 or 30 different things each year.
Yeah, that's it.
That's fair, if not more.
Yeah.
Right.
You know, I brought, we brought a bunch of different things for it, right?
So then, you know, it's like trading amongst you and your friends and smoke some of this
good weed.
Try this out.
Try this weird thing out, right?
There's a space for hobby.
So if we want, if we want, like, we can't trust corporations, we can't trust cookie,
we can't trust J. Beasley, we can't trust fucking glass, any of these people to hold
to be like a genetic library.
No, right?
That's fair to say.
It's got to be diffused and independent.
Yes.
Because even if those people did save it, they would save it to profit off it.
Yes.
So it's not like they give you fucking access to it.
I feel like, oh, how great.
I mean, you know, there was a there was a question that somebody asked about the impact
of tissue culture on breeder markets and collections.
And maybe I'll maybe I'll jump into that for just a second, because we're not going to
name names here either.
But Matt's lost his Matt lost a chunk of stuff once trusting in that.
And there's an aspect where people are offering all these fucking services.
But they're like, give me all of your life's collection and let me hold on to it for you
with no contracts.
And I'll be tissue culture every single one of those motherfuckers.
Oh, I'll I'll I'll I'll bring it back.
I'll get it healthy.
I'll hold it.
You just give me all your valuable stuff.
I'll hold on to it.
Yes.
Right.
And so and there's no and so for a collector like, you know, that works off the honor system,
I have high suspicion that they would just take the collection and do whatever the fuck
they want with it and use it in whatever way monetized it the most for themselves.
Yeah.
And then just lie and say, oh, they got it from someone else.
We didn't use your version.
Exactly.
So TC to me, TC is cool if you want to do it yourself.
But if you want to involve some like big backed corporation, you know, or a company that doesn't
have your best interest at heart with the way the legal scene is around marijuana right
now, which is not very enforceable, and everyone bends the rules every which way they want.
I wouldn't say like, you would trust your TC collection unless it was like your oldest
homie and you had a lot of love and you really trusted him.
Like if CSI opened up a nursery and like had a, you know, yeah, our radio, you know, there's
various people that are friends of ours that we trust.
Yeah.
You know, but for the most part, you're turning your shit over to some stranger.
Yeah.
And if you don't know them for many, many years, it's a stranger.
But even if you do, you're still I mean, most of the time, it's always a risk.
It's a valuable thing to a lot of people.
I mean, I joke about it with Matt and some of my friends, but like, in the last five
or six years, every single person that screwed me over has been a long term friend.
Yeah.
As the scene has gotten tougher.
People are making different ethical choices about how to stay alive and how to keep their
their lifestyle going.
Yeah.
Right.
And so for me, I don't trust TC.
I don't trust I don't trust the collection to to big entities right now.
They're not established enough.
I don't like, you know, I just don't trust them.
It doesn't mean I might not in the future, like it might develop to the point where I
decide to take a risk or something like that.
But there's an aspect where right now it's just kind of wild, wild west and like in the
cannabis scene.
So I just think they're offering to do it because you have something of value.
I case in point, and I'm not going to name any names, but with the TC situation, this
wasn't my experience, but I was involved a little bit.
There are examples of people taking someone's dutied plant and to to clean them up.
Marist and wise, putting it off for six months with promises.
Oh, yeah, it's going.
It's going good because, you know, a lot of us don't know how long this takes.
It was a new thing when this was happening.
And then returning a tiny, tiny, tiny little clone and telling them that it's tissue culture
and it's still dutied.
We've seen and this isn't even the same person we're talking about earlier.
There are so many examples of new technologies coming to cannabis and finding ways to take
advantage of people who have these collections and whatnot.
So that person, that person might have paid four thousand dollars to get that thing.
That person paid five thousand dollars, five thousand dollars to get it.
Marist and with no with no like refund or proof.
If it if I mean, if it tested positive, give me my five thousand back.
It's going to be like, you know, refund that shit.
But you know what I'm saying?
But but that should be standard.
You shouldn't be able to charge for some process that fails.
Yeah.
Right.
That's that's you know, and and so so there's an aspect where like not to get lost in the
TC thing, but but one of the aspects of these larger companies coming in is very soon the
gelato and and and purple wave and all this cookie and overbred shit.
It's going to still exist.
It's way too popular to like go away forever, but it's going to become a segment of the
market, not just a market.
And so there's a huge interest in getting back all these old things.
Yeah.
You know, and there's you know, for all these clone sellers and stuff like that.
I mean, that's one of the risks of selling clones is like, like you can have somebody's
somebody that works at one of these places, this gets it's given money and it's like and
all of a sudden you're just buying it.
Yeah.
You know, so it's like I don't mind if shit gets out there.
I just mind if those people if it gets out there and then all of a sudden they try to
claim it as theirs and restrict others access to it.
Yeah.
Because in my perfect world, like just to like throw a marker down, I think that all
weed that was bred before 2018 should be open source.
That's a fair statement.
And you can't fucking claim shit.
There's nothing before 2018 that you can't patent it.
It ain't fucking yours.
I'm going to shit.
It's it's fucking it's it's open source to some degree.
It doesn't mean you have access to it.
Right.
But you can't restrict it legally.
You can't sue me for having it.
DJ Shorts butthole is like this tight right now.
But it's effed up, you know, I mean, it's like it is.
And the only reason I said his name is because he has a very public claim to those using
blueberry and stuff.
And he does not like that.
Oh, he used to put it on his packs that you're not allowed to breed with it, that you're
not allowed to this with it, that they retain control of the line or whatever the case may
be.
And I understand that, too.
But that's part of selling seeds is that you're putting it out there in the world and then
anyone can do anything they want with it.
That's the trade off.
And that's been happening since the beginning of time.
Yeah.
Every single famous Dutch thing, every single famous 90 strain was was bought.
Seeds were bought and people sold their own versions of it really fast.
Yeah.
Right.
So it's been going on from the beginning.
But what I'm scared of is all of a sudden someone telling me that like, oh, no, we own
the Chem D. Yeah, we own the 91.
We own the we own this.
We don't you know, whatever.
You know, so it's like if you make something in the legal market, if you have a legal nursery
and you make your own breed and you and you do something like that to it, maybe it starts
to get different.
Yeah.
But all the stuff that came out of the shadows, all the stuff that came out of prohibition,
the whole genetic library of everything else, it's it should be not owned by anybody.
I agree.
And, you know, and and that'll that that'll really democratize it.
You know, case in point, like I do like having action with words.
And with the blue bonnet male after I made the lines and literally immediately after
I gave it to Radio Ridge to to have an open source for any breeder who wants to inject
blueberry into their lines.
You know what I mean?
And I I try to stand behind that because I think it I really think if you're good at
what you do.
You shouldn't tie yourself to one thing and you should be able to make new and unique
and go to different directions and be inspired by stuff like that.
And if someone else makes something better than you, you should be able to look at that,
admire it, want to use it and better it.
I mean, you know, I'm a man is not at all, but I'm a I'm a big fan of the Grateful Dead.
Right.
And one of the reasons why they have so many shows recorded is, you know, and they played
more shows than anybody and they and there's more live recordings of them than anybody.
They let tapers they had.
I mean, they made soundboards, but they let tapers set up in the audience and they.
Yeah.
And basically they said after we play it, it's theirs.
That's beautiful.
Don't bootleg.
Don't bootleg our albums.
But our show, as soon as we're done playing it, we played it for you.
It's yours.
And they were pretty rock.
Yeah.
Super punk rock.
Did they were I mean, they came from prankster, you know, from prankster ethics.
It came from the warlocks.
It was a great garage band, too.
So, you know.
Yeah.
I mean, someone just said I hear a lot of the lines were bagsy.
All is bagsy.
So it started with a bagsy.
More bagsy were created.
It's bagsy.
The bagsy.
Yeah.
It's accidental pollination all the way up.
Yeah.
You know, so so that's what I think, you know, there's and maybe that's what people can do.
People can fight to keep even if you're going to crop one or two things for your little
market or whatever.
Save one or two other moms that you grow a plant or two of every now and again and you
hold on to something that you care about.
Make it be something that you enjoy smoking.
Always enjoy smoking it because that's what keeps you keeping it.
That's what keeps you keeping it, you know, and like and then if thousands of different
people hold on to one, two or three or four things that they love a lot, we'll have a
lot more heirlooms that make it.
Yeah.
And we'll be a lot more insulated from like, you know, the the the too few collectors like
me, you know, who like there's fires, there's issues, there's accidents, there's shit that
can happen.
You know, the more diffused it is, the better the better chance we have of stuff surviving.
Absolutely.
Before we continue, someone did ask me to talk about and give a kind of public service
announcement during these times in cannabis.
And I think it's important as well.
A lot of us have lost a lot of people to suicide.
And unfortunately, it's not just cannabis.
It's the whole economic society in America.
There's not a lot of empathy right now.
And realize that like a lot of you guys out there that are in the cannabis industry aren't
the only ones suffering.
There's a lot of people.
I mean, this is all everything is all smoke and mirrors when it comes to business.
Not everyone's happy 100% of the time.
The whole seed community's been hit.
The whole weed community's been hit.
And there's a lot of people you can talk to.
And if you can't find someone, DM me.
I'm available 24 seven and I'll get back to you.
If not, there are suicide hotlines.
It's important.
No male should be ashamed from talking about depression or their feelings at all.
So please, if you can't find someone to get help, talk to one of us.
Yeah, I mean, there's an aspect where it's like I live in obviously I live in Mendocino
County, you know.
And I don't even want to talk about pound prices and what's going on at home right now.
Because it's the way of life is all of a sudden there's an aspect of, well, how does one survive?
I have a mortgage.
I have kids.
I have this.
I have that.
This has worked for me for a lot of us, you know, that are in our like, you know, mid
thirties to mid forties or whatever.
This has been working for us basically our whole adult life.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And now, you know, and now it's changing dramatically.
I don't do anything else good.
Like really, like that's not even just a statement.
This is what I have done most of my adult life.
And the stuff that I used to do, that's bypassed, the technology bypassed a long time ago.
And I think a lot of people in our community that have stuck at this for a long time share
that and it's scary.
Not knowing what the future holds is scary.
So talk about it with each other.
There used to be this thing like with PTSD or whatever, where like getting busted was
like an occupational hazard.
Right.
Yeah.
And it sucked when it happens.
And so we used to be, we used to get scared about that to some degree.
And now it's like, you're not scared about getting busted as much as you are like just
failing.
Yeah.
Right.
And so and then that and then that leads some people to like look around to like, you know,
get sell out.
Yeah.
You know, I'll give you guys a story of back home for a second.
Right.
So this is this is what used to happen when we when the flood hit.
OK.
And we used to call the flood is when like the flood of outdoor really hit the market.
Yeah.
Right.
And prices dropped and not not like crazy like today, but that there'd be an aspect
where all of a sudden like we would be hard to move.
Yeah.
You know, and and the issue was is it wasn't like it was hard to move.
It was more like there was just enough of it that like some of it was moving and a lot
of it was sitting until some of more of it moved.
Right.
Sure.
And people would come up and talk to me and literally like the brokers in November or
December are vampiric.
Yeah.
Like they're like, oh, you have you have fireweed and you have some savings.
Don't you have a buddy that's like three months behind on the PG&E?
Christmas is coming.
The wife's terrified.
They're two months behind on their mortgage.
They got a bunch of fireweed and they want to make a dope deal.
Yeah.
And a lot of times they didn't want to buy from anybody that was stable for a couple
of months.
Yeah.
Because they wanted to they wanted they wanted to take advantage of the poor planners and
the people in a tight spot where they could get a more aggressive deal and they could
make a bunch more margin.
Yeah.
Right.
I mean, that was just that's just like standard.
That's standard business.
You know, and a lot of times people would, you know, back in the day, especially people
would bury their stuff or not trim it till spring.
You know, if you had money, you wouldn't sell it till February, March, April, May.
Yeah.
Because that's when the flood had passed a bit and the desperation was gone.
And then they started coming up and looking for just good packs.
Yeah.
And, you know, and so, you know, there's always been sort of like that.
The reason why I brought that up is that right now that's kind of what's happening is people
are looking at seed collections.
People are looking at clone collections.
People are looking around it and they're like, who's desperate?
Who's desperate?
What's the cheapest I can get?
Who's failing?
Who's in trouble?
Who's stressed?
Right.
Because, you know, but you're right.
People are saying it doesn't seem like a good way to form long term relationships.
That's like you think of brokers and people like that want long term relationships.
They want to win every trip to get what they want.
Yeah.
That's what they're really doing.
There's not a bunch of people that want to form long lasting mutually beneficial stable
relationships.
That's not really weed.
No.
You know, brokers are like, you know, they're like they have some stable relationship with
you and then they hear that like some dude is broke and is going to sell better weed
for $400 less a pound and they're off that way.
Yeah.
Because that's where that dude is.
You know, and so, you know, and so there's an aspect of that where, you know, people
make fun of like, well, you know, California is all boof.
Yeah.
And there's an aspect of that where there is a lot of boof in California.
Don't get me wrong.
There's a lot of shitty weed and there's even a lot of shitty weed in Mendo and Humboldt.
It's like people are trying to like brand legacy and brand that like the area that I
come from is like all just it's just all been triple A and loved on.
No, that's not true either.
That was never true.
It's true in some cases, you know, and everyone's trying to claim it right now.
But it certainly wasn't true for the most part.
People were plenty content to grow OK weed and move it.
Yeah.
Right.
So there's an aspect there where like, you know, but, you know, I don't know.
I'm not even sure where like my train of thought was going on.
I'll give you something.
So we were talking about solutions and I know like I kind of took it off in the not so solution
oriented just this problem where you but one solution and you talked about it earlier
was getting a bunch of people like minded together.
Now with the syndicate, what I originally what this was originally built for the big
pie in the sky idea that I have for the syndicate overall first was to get everyone together
that's interested in weed history, that's truly interested in it, wants to learn, get
together.
We all make each other better.
But from there, my ultimate goal is to have it be a sort of and I know people are going
to find some people flip a union for those who came before us.
They don't have retirements.
None of us have retirements that are weed growers like that are traditional, have fallbacks
for that, have retirement plans for these people.
We have to form it ourselves.
No one's going to form it for us.
And the only way we can do that is working together.
And it sucks because a lot of us won't work together.
But I think over time, a lot of the old school dudes, the people that really care, people
that used to butt heads, even me and Fletcher used to butt heads.
We don't.
We're cool because we all have that same kind of thought and goal.
So that was the overall goal, solution, whatever I saw as my pie in the sky.
I want to expound on that, but I did gather my train of thought like 10 seconds after
you started talking.
So the point I was trying to make is that like for all the people that are complaining
about all this California boof that hits their town, the only reason why that's happening
is because the broker that got it here and brought it to there thinks that you don't
have better options and he can force boof on you for a good margin for himself.
That's why there's boof everywhere.
If you're angry at California boof, don't blame California.
Blame the dudes in your area that arranged for that to appear in your area.
There's tons of pretty good weed in California and there's some really exceptional weed and
you could force your brokers to bring you that.
And then according to what Matt's saying too is, Matt and I battle all this all the time,
but what Matt just said is basically like we need a really big tent.
We need, whether it's a union or whatever else, people are going to laugh at that for
a second, but really what we need is we need millions of people that get on board with
the basic ideas that we think cannabis should be and then to push for those ideas.
And then in some fashion, eventually we'll probably get at least a niche of our ideas
functioning the way that we want to.
But we're really good at fighting one another.
Cannabis used to be, it's not so much anymore, but cannabis used to be a great place where
people with some mental illnesses that were untreated could make a decent living for themselves.
Yes.
Go ahead.
And so, you know, and you could say, you know, and I mean, I know in Mendo, I know like single
moms that like, you know, just like grab some courage and went for it in the hills.
And they were able to spend a lot of time with their kids growing weed, right?
And making a living for themselves.
And there's a bunch of people that would have a hard time working a normal job.
Yeah.
Right.
And so we interact with these people and then they don't fucking act normal.
Yeah.
You know, and then as time gets tough for them too, they start to freak out and they
start to get spastic and shit starts getting weird.
So, you know, but, you know, when it comes down to it too, like people with issues, like
they have a right to a living too.
Weed was a safe space for a lot of people despite the risks.
Yeah, it was.
You know, and it's changing now.
You know, it's changing.
And so as a result of that, like there's a bunch of stress out there.
But we're really gonna have to like, I see a ton of fighting.
If people notice like, I really, I don't fight on Instagram.
You know, I try to be polite to people.
I'm trying to build consensus.
I want more people.
You might be way too polite.
Yeah, I might be way too polite or whatever.
And sometimes I have to eat shit or whatever and not take the bait and people are insulting
or whatnot, you know, but that's at the end of the day, that's their problem, not mine.
Yeah, it's only my problem if I give a shit what they think.
That's very true.
Which I don't because why would I care what you think when I don't even know who you are?
And I don't know what you do in life.
And I don't know what your vibe is.
And I don't know what your ethics are.
One of my good friends has an issue with me, of course, I'm gonna listen.
Yeah.
But like some stranger on the internet that's pissed off because I don't like somebody else
or I don't like somebody's behavior.
Yeah.
You know, I mean, Matt, you know, you can go to whatever.
Convert them however you like, Matt.
Whatever technique it takes.
Whatever it takes.
I'm a kiddo.
Whatever it takes for you to, I'll use words.
You know, you do you in that regard.
Hey, I'm good at what I'm good at, bro.
Yeah, you know, it works, you know, so.
So there's an aspect there where we want better weed.
We want access to better weed.
We don't want it to be we don't want all these strains and everything else to be totally
controlled by people because that will stifle innovation.
Yeah.
You know, hobby breeders and small rooms are where almost all of the best new strains come
from.
Yeah.
They're not going to come from these fucking Chris compound phenol hunts or fucking this
person or that.
They're just I don't think they're going to come from there.
People are going to hype shit.
Right.
And we both know that like, you know, we have friends and stuff.
Most of those people are hype beasts anyway, and they have way smaller breeders making
their shit for them and doing the actual stuff.
That works.
You know, we don't need to I don't want to say a bunch of names or whatever is just slipped
out.
But the fact remains is that there's way better chance for one of you guys with a fucking
eight lighter, right, to come out with the next sour diesel than like one of these big
legal spots.
Yeah.
But the only way that's going to happen is you have to grow good weed and you have to
keep good weed in your room and you have to keep weed you love in your room.
The best weed comes out of weed you love.
Right.
And so like people were asking earlier, like how many how many how many moms I have and
it varies a bunch, but it's like my mom collection is really odd.
Yeah.
I'm very when people ask me that I'm like, why do you want to know my plant?
Yeah, I mean, I'm not I'm not going to that's that's I'm not I just I just meant in the
sense that like, you know, because like some number matters or whatever.
But like there's an aspect where it's it's heavily based on what I personally like.
Yeah. Whether from a breeding perspective or whether from a, you know, a smoke perspective
or a combination or whatever.
So as a result, there's certain things that are kind of famous that I don't really have
a bunch of their a bunch of variations of it.
Yeah.
Because I don't care about it.
You know, that's for other people to care about.
I like what I like.
It's already overwhelming enough just to try to hold on to what I like.
Yeah.
It's really hard to hold on to shit you don't like.
You know, it's tough.
Yeah.
You know, it becomes tough.
And so I don't expect everybody to try to like go go crazy and have like big collections.
But a lot of diversity can be saved by people just doing one, two, three, four, five things.
Yeah.
Do I hold anything that I'm not a fan of, but as a backup for a friend?
Yeah, there's a couple of things.
Are there some things that are untested?
Are there some things that like if I have a close enough friend and they love something
a ton and they want help backing it up, I understand that motivation.
Sure.
You know, don't deluge me with like favorites that you want me to hold on to, please God.
But yeah, if you're a good enough friend of mine or whatever, there can be something that
because that's how all this stuff survives.
Yeah.
It's friends helping friends back things up.
And that insulates you from like angry exes and accidents and fires and you know, all
the stupid shit that can fucking make you lose your shit.
How about making S1s if you can't hold?
It's a great idea.
It is advanced breeding.
So if you're new to making crosses, if you're new to identifying males, identifying females,
if you're not familiar with an intersex plant and even when you're using sprays like my
reversal spray, for example, you can find it at rideseach.com.
You can go get that.
And when you spray it, it doesn't necessarily look like a male.
It looks like a female expressing his male.
So if you're not familiar with seeing that, I recommend doing your research, digging up.
You can always go to our Patreon, join the crew.
We're always talking about stuff like this.
We're going to have a private conversation in a few days on reversals and reversal techniques
for small groups so they can get really good questions in.
But I mean, S1s are a great way to back up seeds, but understand that just because you're
reversing it or S1ing it or selfing it, you're not going to have an exact clone representation
of them all.
So do understand that, but it's an excellent way to back up the pure version of those genetics.
People are asking a bunch of stuff.
That is, yes, all those things that you said are good.
We are going to be having some more concentrated talks with people, which is nice.
People are asking about super skunk, stuff like that.
I don't know.
I mean, I'm not one to like shout from the rooftops, you know, or anything like that.
I do think there's hope that some of these old things exist, but I think they should
be like grown out and tested and sorted out on that level first.
I think, you know, a lot of times when people get like cuts or whatever, and they're convinced
that it's some 30 year old thing and they flex it, you know, I mean, grow it out.
Yeah.
See what's out there.
It's important.
And not just to grow it out.
And it's cool.
Like if you grow it out and you're like, damn, this is dank, that must be shit.
That must be it.
But that's not necessarily the case.
Just because it's dank doesn't mean it's legitimately what you think it is.
So if you're going to grow it out and you're going to assess provenance, and if it's real,
make sure you know about it, have any knowledge about it, and don't just assume because it's
dank that it's legit.
Yeah.
And, you know, and so there's...
Someone asked what's the closest thing to super skunk and seed?
Diesel.
Diesel.
Pure super skunk.
Diesel or diesel?
Yeah.
Diesel, diesel, and these are all sour.
Diesel, diesels.
Diesels and diesels.
I've said a bunch of times before, I kind of consider the diesel family to be like a
modern skunk.
You know, it's not exactly super skunk.
Diesel is much closer to modern super skunk, to like an actual pure super skunk.
But in terms of like a very skunky, like, and I don't mean like necessarily in terms,
but I'm just in terms of like the way it forms and the way it grows and a lot of the
factors to that.
Like I think sours, sours and diesels have various ranges of that.
Yeah.
You know, and so there's plenty, luckily, there's a plethora, it seems like, of sour
cuts right now about fucking, I don't know, three dozen or something like that.
Yeah, they're all legit.
They all tie back to 1995.
So it's really amazing that like out of nowhere, like 36 different individual cuts that are
called the real deal have popped up in two years.
But yeah, you know, so I mean, when people talk about super skunk too, there's plenty
of super skunk in modern weed.
And like Matt said, diesel is almost a pure super skunk.
What people are, what people are really saying is that like super skunk phenos that like
have rank skunk, like aromas, that's the missing link.
But there's plenty of like, physical expressions of super skunk.
Yeah.
You know, in the way the flower forms and the way leaves are and the way, you know,
various aspects of the traits of it.
It's in a lot of stuff.
Yes.
You know, so and you know, there's a thing too, people are asking what's weed like, I'm
not, you know, I'm not trying to knock anybody's stuff.
But I can say that like, when I started collecting sour diesels to compare to my sour diesel
cut that I had to figure out what name I should attach to the one that I've held for
a long time.
Probably in the that was like, what was that like five or six years ago, Matt?
Yep.
At this point, there's probably like half a dozen or eight, six or eight new names that
I that were never in the forums.
Did you ever hear about Albany sour diesel?
No.
Did you ever hear about weasel sour diesel cut on the forums?
No.
Did you ever hear about like the, you know, I mean, so that and I'm not knocking these
things.
I did hear of the cop diesel.
So I'm just I'm just saying that like, there's new like nicknames added to sours, probably
half a dozen or more just within the last three or four years that 10 years ago you
never heard about.
Yeah.
Right.
And so what does that you know, are they the same as other things?
Are they the Chaco?
Are they the Amish?
Are they the this?
Are they the this?
Who knows?
I think every time you see someone release a seed line that's hyped and named after a
cut in the form like the sour diesel, we saw several different breeders release their versions
of sour diesel.
I think that's when you see a lot of old cuts pop up and stuff.
People's poppings and selections of brand new lines that they think is legit enough
to pass for the old.
I mean, luckily for people, most diesel cuts are pretty damn nice.
Yes.
They smoke good.
They're nice and high.
Unless you suck it growing and then it'll be boost.
Because I've sucked it growing diesels before and it's been fucking boost.
Diesels can be finicky and they can be punishing.
And they can not be that great.
But that's I mean, there's so there's, so there's an aspect where there's I mean, maybe
I exaggerated with 36 cuts, but there's probably at least 15, 18 named cuts, a lot of which
claim to be close to original.
I love thought asked what names are legit.
That's the thing.
Names aren't necessarily legit.
It's the cuts that are legit.
Anybody can call anybody cut.
Anybody's cut any name.
So just because someone calls something the Choco cut, doesn't necessarily mean that it's
legit because they called it the Choco cut.
It's kind of like how we called we called it the dog and until our buddy got online
and you know, and then it got named after his online handle.
Yeah.
Because he was the person passing it out and you know, who you know, the Amish was passed
out by was Shroomy, right?
Yeah.
You know, and the child and like so Pete things got named on the internet.
Choco, I called the Choco because he had some of my favorite pictures of it.
And they were some of the best pictures for showing people to describe which cut I had.
So it was called ECSD.
But I said it's the one that Choco shares, Choco cut and it just eventually, that's how
that name formed the Choco cut.
Yeah.
And you know, and then there's, you know, there's, you know, East Coast Sour Diesel,
New York Sour Diesel, you know, all these.
So there was like a first wave in the beginning.
It was just called Sour.
It wasn't really till the forums and like the mid 2000s that names started getting applied
to Sour Diesel.
And then there was a batch of names and now there's a new batch of names.
But what really is happening is that most people have not held their Sour Diesel cut
consistently throughout the eras.
So you're trying to figure out what name is the one that ties back to what you want.
But it's really hard when you lose chain of command, when you lose chain of who has what
when.
Yeah.
Matt and I talk about provenance or whatever, right?
So here's the provenance of my Sour cut.
I got it 22 years ago and I never lost it.
Do I know what it is before I got it?
No.
You know, do I know how, what, where it went and how it went between, you know, the mid
nineties and when I got it in 2000?
No.
But I haven't lost it.
And eventually if you don't lose things like, you know, that if you hold on to things for
a long time, then it sort of becomes like, that's part of the reason why I never tried
any of these other Sours.
I had Sour Diesel.
Why would I get a different one?
I had the one.
I didn't know that I didn't even know there was a bunch.
I got Sour Diesel.
I was happy with it.
It was great weed.
So why would I go trade someone for it?
Yeah.
You know, and people are like, what's the difference between the two NYCD and ECSD cuts?
I think he's probably referring to NYCD from Soma.
I don't think people know about the other one.
Yeah.
Someone's talking about the Millie.
I don't know if mine's the Millie.
That dude that has the Millie, he got, he got his the same year I got mine in the same
place I got mine, which was the Bay area of California.
But we've never exchanged cuts or grown them side by side to test.
I couldn't tell you.
But some people would use that as enough info to say, yes, in fact, that is the same cut.
Yeah.
I mean, you know, and so, you know, he calls it the Millie because it's short for millennium
because he got it at the turn of the millennium.
Yeah.
You know, but with diesels, I don't really think it's a, it's a fair comparison unless
you grow them in the same room at the same time, same greenhouse, same outdoor, treat
it the same, feed it the same, and then you'll see differences if there are.
And if it's the same cut, it'll be the same cut.
Yeah.
But I can't, I can't compare somebody's led living soil grow and a different conditions
to somebody else's.
And if they just come out two different.
Yeah.
And in my, you know, and sometimes with the same person, they come out different crop
to crop.
Yeah.
New York City diesel isn't Dutch.
It is weird and shitty in the sense that Soma took the diesel name and was one of the first
people to offer seeds.
And it was some Euro fruity thing crossed to possibly a sour bag seed if you want to
believe in.
99 hybrid.
It's grapefruit.
But people have found some nice phenos on it.
It's nothing like sour diesel.
Yeah.
The good ones aren't like sour diesel.
So someone's asking about Master Kush.
My boy Bitter's got a killer version of Master Kush, which is the SoCal Master Kush crossed
to be Hawks Breath.
And he's just running through those.
It's an old seed line.
But yeah, I'm stoked to see it back.
I'm stoked to see some SoCal Master back in the form with Hawks Breath.
I can't really, I'm not going to engage a ton on like what all the different names are
because one of the things that I found with sour names is like they get applied to a variety
of different cuts at different times.
And it's really difficult to try to figure out sour diesel.
Yeah.
You know, so I don't know how, I don't know how, like, I don't know how to go back on
that one or whatever.
And even the headband and a lot of these things that I've held for a long time, there's still
more mystery than I would like.
Sure.
I'm just willing to say that there's mystery to it rather than like craft some story of
certainty when none exists.
Yeah.
Stories sound so much better when they're full of intrigue and mystery.
But yeah, that's just how it goes.
You know, and so, I mean, I've had people tell me like people, someone just said the
Albany cuts totally legit.
I know someone that's had it since 99.
People have told me, some of my weed is spread out a little bit and some people have been
trying it and liking it.
Some people have told me that they think that the cut that I have is the Albany for whatever
that's worth.
But I mean, I haven't gotten it.
I don't have any confirmation of it.
You know, I think a lot of people are throwing a lot of different names at the wall and trying
to figure out, which is cool because, you know, at least there's a bunch of interest
in it.
Sour Diesel is way better weed than a lot of the weed that's being traded right now.
A lot of the hype boy weed.
So it should have a moment in the sun.
Yeah.
You know, somebody said there's a master, there's two, the only thing I'll say about
Master Kush is that it seems like there was a, there's a SoCal Master Kush that seems
cushy but it's kind of a Bubba-ish hybrid in my opinion.
And then there's a, there was a Master Kush that we had up north that was much leggier,
much darker, thinner type of thing.
And it wasn't all that frosty, but it might have like my favorite math of the Kush flavor.
I saw a lot of Master Kush grown on the forums from Nirvana.
That is the majority of Master Kush I'd seen.
And it was a lot of like big short squat baseball bat, not just fat fucking short squat Afghanis.
And there was a lot of that in the, in the mid to late 2000s from Nirvana being grown.
I remember that.
I had, someone just said, that's the one.
So I had that cut for probably 10 years.
I lost it when I got in some troubles.
I got it back, but it was super dudded and barely drank.
And you know, it's so we lost it again, but I hope that I have it.
There's a chance it still floats around Oregon somewhere.
I have some friends that gave it out and I'm hoping that like it'll pop up one day.
It's really flavorful.
Some people didn't like it as much as far as brokers because it was a little darker
and wasn't as poppy in the bag as certain other OGs, but man, it had a great high and
it tasted good.
But most people seem to have the SoCal Master that's some that's also really nice.
It's very nice.
It's a Bubba.
Yeah, it's very, very nice.
I like it a lot.
I'm not trying to diss it at all.
It's just not the one that I was familiar with.
And it seems very Bubba based.
It is very Bubba based.
It is a dead ringer for Bubba.
Yeah, it's, it's, it's Bubba with some.
I don't think it has coffee turps like Bubba.
It can depending on how you grow it.
Really?
Yeah.
It's a lot of soapy, a lot of earthy, but it can hit coffee.
It just depends how you grow it.
The Irene OG cut is around various collectors and people have it.
Irene 2.
It exists.
Irene 2, number 2.
Number 2.
Yes.
That's the one that still exists.
That's the one that still exists.
You know, the Bubba, the original Bubba is lost as far as I know.
What survives is the Bubba Kush.
Yes.
Which was, which is a, which we believe is a hybrid of the original Bubba and the first
Kush cut that came to LA.
Yeah.
A seed found in that.
I don't think the original, no one, no one's told me that the original Bubba even exists.
It was a, it was a, it was a funny looking thing.
Yeah.
Which is a shame, you know?
Because you know, like I said, preservation is hard and a lot of people get rid of a lot
of things thinking it's going to be easier to get it back and then they realize they
can't find it.
Someone's asking if HL, the Hobsoletan Viroid is something that's always been in cannabis
and the answer to that, I will, we'll cover that on September 8th with Toomee.
Toomee is the company that we're going to be bringing on, but the short answer is no.
We know exactly when it came and hit cannabis and who did it.
Somebody just asked if I met the guy that gave me the Mendo perps, would I, would I
grow them like I did back then enthusiastically and would you trust him?
Oh, so that's interesting.
Back then I grew water culture, total hydro.
So it's very unlikely that I would grow them back then.
Like like I, like now I have a little bit different methods now.
But sure, I would grow them just as enthusiastically.
There's no doubt that there's a lot more lying going on about ancient strains now than there
ever was in 1998.
In 1998 nobody gave a shit.
There wasn't a famunity to impress on any level, you know, and so there was less lying.
And even then he didn't tell me very much at all about it.
The only reason why I have a tendency to believe that it could be as old as he thinks it is
or he thought it was is because it's low THC.
It's got a crazy wide amount of diversity in its genes, you know, and it doesn't seem
like it's related to anything else we know.
You know, so sometimes the plant backs up the story better than the, but there's a,
there's an unbelievable amount of bullshit right now with ancient seeds and ancient cuts
and random shit.
And it's, there's a renewed interest in old things, which is wonderful.
But that's led to an enormous amount of scamming.
An enormous amount.
And I just don't think that in 98, 99, 2000, 2001, there was no extra money and nobody
cared.
So I don't think there was nearly as a reason to lie.
It just bothers me too, because, and I'm not gonna say any names, but people are selling
people in, maybe it's a big word, but dreams.
It's like things that you haven't had that you can't quite verify, but you want and you're
willing to spend good money on.
And that's when they sell you.
That's how they sell.
That's how they work.
Yeah.
He asked because we're talking about swapping genetics and trusting people.
Trusting people these days is hard, you know?
And there's not, it's not as easy.
I mean, a lot of times, you know, you have to grow things out and then share that, share
picks and share this and that, and try to make your best judgments.
Our buddy CSI grows out old seeds from people all the time.
And just kind of lets the plants show him what it shows him.
Yes.
Right?
And then he starts to believe or disbelieve.
Someone's asking about Tennessee stud.
That's a, it was the G13 NL2 from Neville crossed to blue bonnet.
And Pips, we did the selection for the keeper that we used in the G13 NL2 seeds.
We have to say names eventually.
I've said names for so many years and frankly, it hasn't made much of a difference.
If you're interested in names, if you're interested in wanting to get it right, if you're interested
in all this stuff, the discords, that's just where it is.
Like if you, if you're really interested in that kind of that detailed kind of info, join
the Patreon discord.
You'll get plenty of info and then some.
And then part of the reason why, part of the reason why we have that kind of approach and
we're hesitant to mention some of the names on the chats is because like we'll be talking
about some wider subject and Matt or I or somebody will make a offhand comment about
someone specific and then 10 people will send like a 15 second audio message of just that
to that person and then they're all butthurt or they're whatever it's taken out of context.
Or they're doxing me or whatever.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And so there's an aspect of, there's an aspect of, you know, of wanting to keep it a little
bit more like highbrow and wanting to keep it focused on the subject and not just, and,
and, you know, not using somebody as an example and then they feel unfairly singled out.
In certain rare cases when I think it's like crazy enough behavior, I mean, we'll just
say it, but the point of these talks is to like educate people and stuff like that.
Not so much to just sit there and like vent a bunch of grievances.
Yeah, that's easy to do to sit there and vent a bunch of grievances.
And it's really easy to sit there and talk about things that will make you money.
But it's not super easy to talk about history.
So somebody just, somebody just asked if G13 and NL2 is still available and no.
No, no.
I gave the rest of those seeds to a seed bank and they passed them out and didn't put, they
mixed up packages, named them A, B, C, D. So they just got spread throughout.
I don't know which is which.
So some people have them and may not even know it.
It is labeled by a letter.
And usually what happens is when people grow those out and I can see them, I can usually
tell what it is because they were all so different.
And there's an aspect too of one of the reasons why I ask people to save stuff, right?
And hold on to these things is because every five or ten years cannabis really does re-emerge.
And things that you think are common and they aren't going to be around for a long time,
in many cases they don't.
And the only way you can be absolutely sure to preserve it, if you or your friends, you
know, if you or your friends help make sure you save it, you know.
Real quick, I was talking with CSI, a lot of people have been asking if we were going
to continue the Northern Lights project with the NL1, NL2, the NL2x5 that was sent by Seattle
Gregg and there's a few others.
We have been debating it because there was a lot of politics when we were talking about
selling the seeds, when we were selling the seeds, a lot of back talk and weird stuff
going on behind the scenes.
So we really had a serious sit and think, is it even worth it?
We're going to do it.
We're going to go ahead and do it.
So that's the announcement right now.
If anybody is interested, we are going to do that.
But again, just like the five, just like the Hawaiian Lights, we're going to do it proper.
We're going to take our time with it.
Anything that's worthwhile is going to take time.
And I should say on that level that one of the things I really like about the way CSI
does and, you know, this project that him and Matt have been doing is, you know, they
grow out a few hundred plants and they show you, you know, and I'll do them a little bit
later this fall, but I have a couple selections from CSI that he, out of his and Matt's project
together, that he gave me of a couple of his favorites that he wants me to see what I think.
And the number eight is the one that he's currently working on reversing, which is the
super, super stinky skunky one.
Yeah, I think there was a, I think I got that one and I got one other one that I think he
thought was very bubblegummy.
The seven, yeah.
Yeah.
So I got two different ones that he really liked a bunch and wanted some close friends.
He must like you, he gave you the two best ones.
Geez.
I mean, you know, so.
What do you have to do to get them?
I, you know, I, I do dumb shit, like hold onto things for friends, you know, so.
There you go.
There you go.
I don't even know if I'll like them, we'll have to see, you know, but they're there.
And you know, yeah, people are asking, I don't know when I'm going to have seeds, man.
You know, it's.
When he has them.
When I have them at some point.
You'll hear about it if you keep paying attention.
You know, there are some, there are some, I did give CSI a few things of mine, a few,
a few select cuts that he's obviously like released a few things.
I think he has a few more things in the pipeline.
Oh, I know about a not so not so LA Cush cross that just happened to.
Oh, I, you know, I haven't talked to Homie in a couple of weeks, so I'm behind him and
I have a meeting to, I don't know if you want to, but he, I think what's happening too is
that like, he's kind of a pain in the ass to get excited about certain things.
And so you can be like, Oh, you want to do this?
You want to do this?
And he'll be like, ah, yeah, whatever.
And then all of a sudden he'll be like, Oh, I want to do that thing.
And then it'll start happening.
So he has moods.
And I think the lights took a while to get pushed like that because he doesn't like stuff
typically associated with Dutch stuff, stuff that's going to smell like old Dutch stuff.
And then he's got his prejudices, but he also lets the plants talk to him and he's willing
to be surprised.
And I think now that he's used the LA and a couple of things and he's gotten some really
positive responses from lots of people, it's made him more interested in seeing what else
it can do.
Yeah.
So, um, you know, I don't think, uh, Shanti Baba would be one of the most unusual people
to collab with.
He's not much of a collaborator with anyone like that.
I don't know if he's ever done a collab with an anyone in America.
So that would be pretty far fetched.
Yeah.
I mean, so, you know, as always, we try to keep it like light and we try to go in different
directions, you know, on that aspect.
But, um, you know, we'll see.
There's a lot of, uh, there's a lot of interest in old seeds right now and old lines.
And if a bunch of people could get 90 centsy work or 90 serious work or this or that, they
would jump on it.
And so, you know, um, you know, uh, hopefully some of that stuff survived and hopefully
amongst the wave of bullshit, uh, there's actually a few real gems that come to the
surface as well.
You know, I think a lot of people really, really miss the fuck out when, uh, Pips Weed
offered Silver Pearl.
Like people who are into old, dank, unique, old stuff.
But there are times when people do drop these old gems that they've kept forever and people
just for one reason or another miss out.
So make sure you guys are keeping your eyes peeled to these.
I think Pip was just like two years too early.
I agree.
Like if he was, if he dropped it last, I think he was like, I don't know, maybe a year or
two early.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
But he dropped it last year, like in 2021 or something like that.
And he had some, because the crazy thing about Pips Silver Pearl, um, is that like, you look
at that, you look at a picture of that weed and you hold it up to old Silver Pearl pictures
and boy, is it a ringer.
It's a dead ass ringer.
Man, it really, really looks like, you know, if not this, I mean, I'm not saying it's the
same plant, but you can really see like, it's a very close resemblance.
And his Death Coast, like for people, if you would have released Death Coast now, if
that clone made it around, it would smoke every, I, in my opinion, it would smoke most
sours.
It would smoke most burnt rubber stuff.
I mean, it was some of the loudest weed I'd ever, ever entertained.
It's fucking crazy.
I love that shit.
Yeah.
I mean, he's, he's got, you know, the cool thing about him is he breeds what he loves
and he's got some pretty cool lines and he also got a bit lucky.
Yeah.
You know, um, a couple of times.
But to me, it's gotten unlucky too.
You know, he tried to, he tried to reverse his sour cut and I think he got like 20 seeds.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So that's exciting.
You know?
Um, and uh, you know, Silver Pearl to me, this is kind of an unusual smell, but like
Silver Pearl to me smells like baby poo.
It smells like, it smells like, it smells like little kid poo and they're just living
on milk when they're very young before anything.
I don't know that smell.
I know you don't know that smell, but I've had a bunch of kids.
So it smells like that.
It has this weird, it has one of those smells that like smells gross, but cause it's weed,
it's good.
That's so weird.
Like to me, I smell like a hint of bubble gummy, sweet and the rest is like, dang, indescribable
thing.
Like my nose smells just indescribable thing with like sweet, pleasant bubble gum.
Yeah.
It's, it's pretty leafy and it's, and it's pretty, it's pretty frosty and it doesn't
yield that very big buds.
It's insanely resinous for its era.
That's for sure.
And it's like, um, it's uh, what is the exact cross again?
It's like, it's like, is it early girl by NL five by skunk one?
Yes.
Yeah.
Early Pearl NL five skunk one.
Yeah.
That's what it is.
And then they cross, he crossed that to Hayes C and made silver Hayes.
Yeah.
Um, but yeah, especially that death coast, there's some things that Pip did and he wasn't
like a fan boy on IgE and he didn't have this massive following.
But if people would have like bought him out, uh, the way they bought some more well-known
breeders out, they probably would have been happier.
All that money you spend on other people.
Yeah.
Hope you enjoy your animal mints.
Uh, did it remind you of the smell of shoreline?
No, no, it didn't to me.
Uh, shoreline, like I said, the indoor was very hot garbage.
The outdoor was very hot garbage and, and legit urine.
Somebody just asked what's early Pearl?
My understanding of early Pearl is early Pearl is, uh, a worked early girl, which is, um,
something that from, which is Pollyanna cross with, uh, early Pearl, I believe is Pollyanna,
which is a Mexican cross with early girl.
Correct.
And it's, and it, that's what it is.
And it's worked stuff from Rob Clark.
Yeah.
The Pollyanna came from Rob Clark, the early, the early girl.
Huh?
Yeah.
Pollyanna came from Rob Clark.
There's, there's speculation that the Afghani and I think it's the Afghani or the Mexican
and Pollyanna might be the Mexican at Skunk One.
That's the one thing we are trying to figure out.
Yeah.
I mean, there's, there's some, I mean, I'm sure that, uh, Sam and him know, um, you know,
but yeah, he, he was responsible for a number of early strains that went over to Amsterdam.
I believe he brought over Calia, uh, Calio maybe, California Orange.
Um, and, uh, you know, but there was a, there was a handful of, there was a handful of people,
um, that were bringing things to Holland and he was certainly one of them.
Yeah.
So, um, but yeah, and there's no doubt that, um, Rob and Sam in the, in that we're working
with Mexicans and Colombians trying to get Colombians to finish in California.
Yeah.
And so they were working with various, and that makes sense because that's like the two
most important things in that area at the time.
Yeah.
Go ahead.
Someone's asking about Dolores.
So I'm going to go grab a picture of Dolores.
I don't know anything about Dolores.
Oh, I don't have it close.
It's in the other room.
It's in the other room.
And there's a guy, there's actually a guy in here that I chat with Buckshot Hill, whose,
whose family was rocking a really nice early pearl cut in the, in the early nineties.
Um, and has been hunting, uh, through any kind of seed he can to try to see if he can
find something that he remembers from that era.
We had a nice early, early pearl cut in San Diego too, in the hog room.
Yeah.
So, um, so yeah, you know, some of that, some of that early work, some of the, I don't,
you know, is, is really nice.
Um, and I wish it was still around for, I mean, there was an interesting thing.
I was talking to this gentleman from Australia, okay.
Who worked with Neville, um, some of the last years of Neville's life.
Yeah.
And he said, one of Neville's great regrets is that he couldn't take all the stuff he
had in the eighties and nineties and work it now.
Yeah.
With like, you know, 30 more years experience and a better sense of things and a better
sense of the importance of things in certain aspects.
And he did a really good job back then.
Yeah.
But I think a lot of breeders have that regret where it's like, boy, do I wish I had everything
I had in the nineties and early two thousands now.
Yeah.
And I, you know, um, I have a lot more knowledge now.
Smoked a lot more weed, seen a lot more things, talked a lot more.
So you know, um, and, uh, and yeah, so, uh, that's, that's early girl.
And, you know, I wish that we could get stuff from Sensi that was real.
Um, but, um, I think those times passed sometime by the early to mid two thousands.
Yeah, I agree.
People asked how did they go downhill so fast?
So what happened to Sensi is that, um, they, I think they were legit all throughout the
nineties, even after Neville left, they still had most of their original moms and dads and
they released some things that were like unreleased Neville work in the later nineties anyway.
And then the laws changed.
They got busted.
I think they lost some things.
Um, and then they outsourced to Spain.
That was the big death now.
So at that point, I actually believe that there could be one or two things amongst,
you know, the, their collection that might still exist.
Super silver haze.
Yeah.
That's everywhere.
That's one of the ones that did get everywhere and stayed.
But you know, but which ones are they and which ones are legit and which ones from now?
Who knows?
I think they've been untrustworthy for at least 15, 15 plus years.
Yeah.
Sadly, unfortunately.
Yeah.
Um, but they had a good 10 year run, you know, from the early nineties to the early two thousands,
they had a lot of legitimate stuff.
Yeah.
So I would, I would be very suspect of anything from Sensi today.
And the shame is that Ben, Matt and I have talked a bunch about having Ben and Alan on,
because they were there and they know an enormous amount about the early history of Dutch cannabis.
But they are very Dutch businessmen and we've been told that they're terrible interviews.
Yeah.
And they still claim to this day, they have all the original parents and Sensi is no different
now than it was in the nineties and all that type of stuff.
So that's hard.
They promote Sensi.
Yeah.
You know, they're not really interested in history or being accurate or telling you what
they lost or what they have or what they like.
So they have it in there.
They just don't give a shit.
Keep our seeds.
We've done a whole episode or two on Canadian seed banks.
We'll probably do some more.
It just involves getting more of the Canadian people involved because me and Natsu have
no place telling the history of Canada's seed banks because they're not from Canada.
Yeah.
We do have, we have a, we have a good friend we chat with all the time.
He's from up there that has a lot of connections and a lot of knowledge.
You know, Matt talked to a couple of them.
Red and Chimera.
Yeah.
Red and Chimera.
You know, there's some other friends of theirs that might come on at some point.
But yeah, it's not really our scene.
Yeah.
And Shawnee's going to be probably interviewing.
We had an interview with a dude named Pete from up there that was also part of their
scene.
But sadly we don't have the audio anymore.
Someone else has it and we can't get it back.
So we're probably going to do another interview again and just try to hit it from scratch.
Shawnee's going to help a lot with that because Shawnee's our Canadian connect.
Someone just asked what about the dudes that are revamping the SSSC?
Well, we had a big interview with Carell.
So the guy that used to own the company is still alive and still a part of it.
And I believe he's in his 70s now probably.
So I would imagine his son and some other people are doing a ton.
And it certainly doesn't seem like they have a ton of their original stuff.
So they're trying to revamp things.
But it does seem like they have a few, at least one, but possibly a few very old cuttings
that they're using sort of as the baseline to get restarted again from their work in
the 80s.
Yeah.
That was a great interview too.
I remember after that was done, we were just so stoked.
Because it was special.
Like nobody had really done a great interview with SSSC in many years, many, many years.
So if you haven't heard that stuff, go check it out.
The other thing that I liked a bunch too was that obviously they talked about how they
didn't have any, he was very upfront about most of it.
There was a few things where time or whatever, he didn't want to speak to it.
But he did give some really cool tidbits that we didn't know before.
And he added depth and he was certainly there.
So all that stuff.
I think that interview probably had the most bombshells in it that we've done of things
we didn't know, that were unknown to most of the public.
So I think it's really cool.
Yeah.
So he's part of the revamp.
They're certainly not going to be able to like just release their old catalog like it
was in the 80s.
But they do have some old things and they're mixing them with other stuff.
And when I interviewed him, he seemed like an older version of us.
He seemed like a cool cat.
So I'm into it.
I'm into him.
He was a nice man.
All right.
Anything else you want to cover tonight?
We're getting right there.
Yeah, we are.
We are getting right there, I guess.
I don't know what else I wanted to cover.
Let me see if there was anything.
We can save some of that for a later date or whatever, I suppose.
Yeah, now we have notes written down.
Now we have some notes written down and things.
And as always, there's a bunch of stuff that questions and things that I see.
I try to pick out some out of the comments.
If we didn't answer them, it's not because it wasn't a good one.
It just didn't go with the flow of what we were chatting about.
So you can always ask us on the Discord or you can always DM or anything like that.
And so, you know, Keeper topics are hard because it's personal preference.
What I consider a Keeper, you might not consider a Keeper.
We might have different criteria.
The biggest criteria that I would say for a Keeper for you is, do you enjoy the flavor
of the high and the way it burns?
Those are like, you know, if you personally like it a whole bunch, then it could be a
Keeper.
You know, if I don't like the flavor of something, even if I like the high, it's not very likely
that I'll keep smoking it for myself.
But some people may prefer the high over the flavor.
So that's why it's very, very hard.
Actually, it's the easier to keep.
A Keeper becomes easier when she checks all the boxes.
You know, I mean, Grandpa used to say, there's nothing wrong with rich and beautiful, you
know.
But, you know, so obviously, if you have phenomenal high and incredible flavor, that's great.
But, you know, there's plants I keep that don't have a very potent high, but have other
aspects that I like quite a bit.
And there's the reverse, too.
I mean, I've talked a bunch about that Peacemaker, you know, the Great White Shark cut that I
had that was almost hallucinogenic, it was so strong.
But it tasted like smoke.
I couldn't find a good one that had any flavor.
So you know.
All right.
So if you've enjoyed the talks tonight, definitely check out our Breeder Syndicate Patreon.
You can find it by going to Google and typing in Breeder Syndicate Patreon.
All of our podcasts are available in audio form and video form on YouTube, as well as
all the podcast software.
We've been getting them out usually a few hours right after this is done.
So this one will probably be up by late tonight if you want to hear it in the audio form.
Check out riotseeds.com.
It's not just my stuff there.
You can buy my reversal spray there.
And we've got Santa Cruz Goat Farm, my buddy Pac-Man.
Check out his train wreck feminized hybrids.
They're fucking awesome.
And let me ask, let me just throw one thing in here because somebody threw something out
there.
Why is my page private?
I took my page private after 2.15 ended.
And you know, just to prevent certain trolls and certain people that we have issues with
from like spamming and causing issues.
Over and over.
And occasionally I delete people or occasionally I like don't, I let it back up and I don't
accept people that fast.
So anyone that's listening, if you want to be accepted, just send me a message and I'll
see it.
And don't have no followers and no posts.
Yeah.
If you have zero posts and very few followers and no pictures, something like that, I might
get worried that you're one of the scammers trying to mess with us and just delete you.
But if you send me a thing saying, dude, I watch it and you said to add me, you know,
like reach out.
I'll add.
Yes.
So that's why I'm private.
All right.
To curate.
Great.
So everyone, as always, we appreciate your Friday night.
Keep sending us questions because we always love to hear what you want to talk about.
And I've been a little bit behind on it, but look out because I will be doing a series
of like shorts and not so story time to add into our chats on YouTube.
And so there's going to be some more content like that coming this weekend and this upcoming
week.
So keep an eye out for that.
Yeah.
I'm stoked for that too.
And yeah, like I said, Breeder Syndicate, Patreon, come join our discord.
Like if you enjoy hearing the inside details on all kinds of topics that we don't discuss
publicly, join the Breeder Syndicate Patreon and you're likely to hear it all.
So thank you everyone for showing up.
We love you.
We want to build this community as best we can.
And if you want to help build it with us, join the Patreon.
All right.
Everybody have a good night.
Lots of love everyone.
Want more Breeder Syndicate?
Be sure to check out our Patreon by going to Google and searching Breeder Syndicate
Patreon.
We have a secret discord where we are available at most times and interact daily.
There are a lot of perks to be had there, so check it out.
Need seeds?
Check out riotseeds.com where you can get our seeds and our reversal spray for making
your own feminized seeds.
