There we go. Welcome back people coming back in. Apologies for those that don't
know Instagram makes us stop at the hour on the hour so we're gonna have an hour.
Yo! Back. Alright people already joining back in we're back up to 128 so yeah
we can just go ahead and start rolling. Every once in a while like I miss people
writing stuff at the bottom because I'm just holding my phone so I'm sorry if I
miss questions or anything like that but somebody said that I was calling dude
Skunk Va instead of Skunk VA. I'd like to say that I'm having a real I'm all these
people like I called them by their real names you know these nicknames and stuff
like that that they get used on forums and stuff this is not yeah I speak of
them so I'm trying real hard. Yeah it's hard huh?
Keep everybody's personal business personal business and and call them by
their their IG handle or their nickname or what I know of them as you know
because obviously like you know obviously like I don't I don't call them
by that ever you know so I'm trying to overcome my mental you know just and
just not just spout their name over and over again of who they are. It's hard
it's real hard but yeah you're doing a great job. Because I knew Skunk VA you
know for you know years before he jumped online and created that handle for
himself. Yeah. You know? So it's very easy to call him his name. Yeah. So far I haven't slipped it
but but you know I'm trying to be you know like I said our our old
compatriot that we called the dude from Staten Island because he doesn't have a
nickname because he's never been online really I'm trying with that I'm trying
I mean every most people on this thing probably know who Chemdog is but I'm
not gonna say his name out of respect just because yeah you know so yeah I
mean you know Toast did Rasta yeah I mean the only thing that you know
there's there's a few things I'm known for I guess I mean I got lucky and I
cracked the the Mendo perps which probably our good friend CSI has bred
and brought to the public more than anybody else. Yeah. I just got whether you
want to call it lucky or vibe or energy or whatever I just got lucky and and got
any number of different cuttings and connections and things that ended up
being quite famous later. Yeah. And then there's a whole bunch of hoopla and
mystery and bullshit that gets spewed about him you know? Yeah. Yeah he's he's
being fucking humble as fuck because that's who he is but but the reason I
wanted to start off my the podcast essentially with Not So Dog is because
he is so integrated integrally tied into so many fucking strains that are a base
of our whole cannabis culture and he's and he's not a pee-butt so he's not
throwing his name out there real big and he's just you know doing his thing I
can't even get him to fucking sell seeds for the life of me this guy's been
breeding as long as I've been alive so yeah. Yeah I mean you know. So far so far
as far as seed going is that I had a pretty like punk rock ethos with seeds
and I bred them for me and for friends and we tried to make things that we like
and then I gave them out for free. Yeah. And so you know the S1's and the Mendo
perps rule dude I highly recommend them. I went up and visited CSI and he did it
he just did a big S1 test run and I got to get a big testers pack of a bunch of
the S1's and I am currently smoking them on a regular basis there's a whole
bunch of variety in the line. Have you seen the skunk ones? Yes.
Yeah yeah so I went up there the day or two before he harvested. Yeah. We a few
hours in that particular room he had half the room was a bunch of Urkel S1's
and half the and half the room was a bunch of Mendo P S1's and we poked
around and smelled a bunch of stuff and so yeah there is Mendo P has a wide and
luckily it has a wide variety of genetics inside of it. There's dark ones
there's there's burgundy ones there's light purple ones there's green ones.
Beautiful. They're all black there's ones that like the bud is black but all
the leaves are green. Strangely and this is I never expected to see this there
was actually even some cush and some pine sole in maybe about 10% of them.
That's interesting. That was pretty surprising to me you know and some of
the nicest ones harmed. Yeah. But I mean there you go. Blue skies Vienna there's
not really a deal between any of us and blue skies Vienna you know I would I
would call myself I'm pretty polite in all in all regards and Matt isn't so
polite and so we both have a pretty limited patience for bullshit you know
and so you know nobody nobody would be happier for me to see a whole bunch of
rank roadkill skunk come back in community but it's a bummer when people
claim things and then make a bunch of money off the public for six months to a
year to a year and a half before the word gets spread that they don't really
have what they have and then they viciously attack anyone that wants to
fuck with their money train. Yeah. And so Matt is pretty famous for calling out
bullshit as he sees it and that endears him to some of us. People take offense to
that you know. And he you know and so he gets a bunch of blowback and then he's
willing to give as good as he gets at times like that. And so you know he has a
number of enemies out there but most of his enemies are just people that have
something to hide. Yeah. In my opinion. And and so they try to insult the person
without insulting the quantity or quality of his argument. Correct. Instead
of responding to the fact that they don't have RKS and they don't have rank
skunk they make fun of how tall he is or his breeding. How fat I am. Yeah.
Whatever. Punk rock sucks. And you know or whatever the case may be to throw poop
at the situation and muddy the water so people won't believe what he's trying to
tell which is basically telling the general public be wary of this person and
don't give him a shit ton of your money you know because it's probably not true.
Yeah. And like like like I said before the skunk talk the proof is in the
pudding. Everyone is going to be really aware when somebody finds skunk. Yeah.
It's not going to be hard. We can you can bring it to you see you can bring it to
one of these big events. You can crack the jar you can smoke it with people and
everyone will know that you're not full of shit. Yeah. Basic. And so until
somebody does that you know or until it gets into my hands or skunk boss hands or
somebody that has real provenance with the cut I don't even I mean I would love
for my that original super Scott cut to exist. You know if it doesn't exist
hopefully people find that terp in some other combination of things you know like
even if a total asshole that I dislike finds it and brings it to the community
great. Yeah great because at least it's there. One of the things that we you know
we should say about the seed business has always been shady and the more you learn
about a lot of seed breeders you have to segregate what you think of them as
personal people from their contribution to the community. Yeah. Because some of
them are right scumbags right. But they had an undeniable they have an
undeniable contribution that can't be disparaged. Sure. They might be a narc.
They might be an asshole. They might be a cheat. They might be scummy. But you
know I mean at the end of the day you contributed to the gene pool what you did.
Yeah. And so once you've done that you can't take that away from someone. And
all of the all of the old heroes as it were everybody has the ones they like more
than others. Yeah. There are almost no honest folk. No not not in the old hero
sense. I will say just if anybody if anybody's out there listening out of the old
school ones I would say probably the two most honest ones are Mel Frank. I think Mel
Frank in general what he said and what he's contributed to and his part of the stories or
whatever like I don't think we caught him in any bullshit that I'm aware of. I think he's been
pretty upfront about what he did and how he contributed to things. And I also think
Jorge Cervantes is yeah he's been helpful is in that same boat. And the most important
people in the cannabis community in my opinion you know like and the sort of
godfathers of it all are Neville and Sam Scum Man David Watson and and Jim Ortega and
you know a few others. And they all have their supporters and detractors. Sure.
Strongly. And there's valid points of suspicion and weirdness and character issues at
times. You know. Yeah. So this leads into a segways into what we were kind of talking about last
night. Now I thought it was kind of interesting that in all the years and in this is including
myself no one has ever asked Skunk VA hey this picture that is in the high times of the
Kimberley put in high times the first thing is that the same cut that came from your crew
because it is very distinctive looking right. And it doesn't look like it. It doesn't look like
it according to you. So there's a guy there's a guy that will remain nameless that has an old
and elf and elk cut. Yeah. And most people probably don't know this but you know Matt and I
as little friend crew or whatever we have been in touch with one of the originators of the
whole crew. And we've interviewed and asked them a bunch of questions and he's actually been
invaluable in filling in some blanks and some history of what was what. Right. And so this kid
had this ancient NL and he was absolutely sure it was what it was. And I was like man you know if
you want to send me or one of us you know an eighth or a quarter or something we'll get it to dude
and he can tell you exactly. Yeah. And he got all mad and refused. So you know fuck you you're lying.
Exactly. Exactly. If you don't if you don't want to get your old famous cut to the person that that
breaded. And then there's the flip side of that. And I've seen this. I can't even tell you
countless times when someone hits someone up and they come from the point of view that appears to be
that they are actually trying to do real historical research. I had this I had this with analog
selections the guy who's passing the mass superstruct to everyone. He came to me was asking about mass
superstruct in the history and whatnot what we found out. And I was just being open and honest with
them. Hey this is this is what we know. This is it. Showing pictures illustrate like we do.
I totally fucking got stoned and forgot what I was talking about. And I'll throw this out there. So
here's the thing. So fucking you know Matt and I are going to do a series of things about history
hopefully you know and that's really the only reason why I mean I wasn't willing to show my face for
forever. But I'm tired of so many people you know the loudest voices spewing the most bullshit. You
know some of that needs some pushback because the younger generation and just history in general is
better served in the long run. It's better served like by the real shit being out there. You know.
And you know and so I mean you know you're some of these discussions are going to be wide ranging or
shit or whatever. But what's going to happen is is that people are going to listen to shit and then
they're going to use that information to make their bullshit in the future more believable. That's what
I was talking about. Yes that's that's what you were. And there's just no fucking way around that right. So
yeah like I'll give you a perfect I'll give you a perfect example. OK. And maybe this should be saved for
the podcast or whatever. OK. Yeah. But someone before I even knew CSI someone who was super close to me
and had heard the story of how the Mendo perps happened in detail. OK. Honestly told that story to CSI. Yes.
There was some special details in there right. And so he met before we before we actually met a long ass time
ago and then lost track of each other. But when we reconnected and I told him my past he was putting me through
the I mean obviously people call him the inspector right. So he's putting a ringer and he's asking you questions
and some are true and some are lies and he's trying to catch you in bullshit. You know. Yeah he's amazing at it.
Details that if you were trying to bullshit you just wouldn't have. Yeah. It's like you're all into murder mysteries
Matt right. So yeah. So you know a lot of times when they put a murder when they when they report something they
print a couple of things that are not factual. That way when everybody calls and they tell stories that they have a
lead. Yeah. We eat out a bunch of the people that don't know the truth. Correct. Right. And otherwise they'll get
hundreds and hundreds of bad leads. Yeah. They have to track down and act like they're real. Yeah. So you know. And
so the more history that I that we spout on some of these subjects you know the double edged sword for sure in the
future to like shape up. You know I mean there's another guy that like we were that we won't say you know his name just to
not give him any fame. But we pushed back against a bunch of his bullshit. He's claiming to have cuts from two or three
years before they were released to the public ever. Yeah. Like they weren't even created at the time and he slapped a
year. Yeah. About 95 and they're like I've got a 93. Yeah. Well if you were there from the era you know they're full of
shit. And that's why Pip invented the term the pre pre and how it got famous. And so you know and you know and so all
that. And so you know I mean you know that's the you know for a long time nobody gave a rat's ass about any of these old
cuts. They just want to knew they just wanted what was easy. And now that this thing has happened and the game has
changed a bit old ancient my uncle my father my secret chemist friend hiding. And everyone's got these stories of how
these long lost things carefully passed down to them. And here's the parts of the story that I remember. But it's absolutely
legit. Yes. So you know we go we run around poking holes in these balloons because many of them have bullshit parts of the
story that simply can't be true. Yeah. Yeah. Everybody has an uncle. Everybody has a secret uncle that has the bomb diggity
and gave it only to them. You know that's right. And you know people do. Whoever just said this people breed all the same
stuff. So that's a problem is that in my opinion and I've said this a bunch is that the 90s was the golden era. And the
reason why is that a bunch of stuff. There was a lot of diversity. And if it was good weed it's sold. Yeah. Meant that an
enormous amount of people could grow an enormous amount of different strains of weed and they would all sell. And thus
people would hold on to them. And there was a bunch of shit. Yeah. Single time there's been a name craze. The early 2000s
purple craze with granddaddy perp grape a purple from me all that stuff. The sour the cush the cookie the skittles everybody
in the community that's like I'm going to be a breeder right. Everything I have and cross it the same fucking thing. Yeah. Right.
So now you've got you know and I joke about this but if you go back and you look at like European kings and queens right. They
all end up inbred always. Years they only fucked each other. Yeah. Family in Spain and the family in England and the family in
Germany. They're like they're marrying first cousins. They're marrying their fucking uncle. They're marrying this and this and
this. And so now the amount of things you have that have cookie in it or cushion it or this in it. There's probably 30 to 50 cuts
that have been bred into fucking everything. Oh yeah. Absolutely. Everything. Everything popular. You know I mean I don't know.
I don't know if if archive is still on here or whatever. Yeah. Happens exactly. You know. But I mean you know do-si-do
becomes famous and boom do-si-dos and everything. Yeah. Boom skittles and everything. Boom. All these cuts are in everything you
know and all that. So basically over the last 15 or 20 years we've been on a massive short term bottlenecking project. Sure.
All this diversity. And so now we're all looking around and we're like oh where's all that diversity. You know because you know I
mean we've done this whole thing on you know you can hate do-si-do. That's fine. You know I mean to be honest you know I find
the chem dog to be one of my top three or four favorite things. And my buddy and I have some really good buddies that don't
think highly of it. Yeah. Doesn't work for them very well. So you know when I if I basically feel like if there's an elite
cutting it's because there's enough heads that like it. Yeah. Enough people that all commonly agree on it. There's always going
to be some heads that don't like it. For instance my Staten Island friend. Yeah. He was a prickly mother. He's a prickly
motherfucker. Right. So he's there. Yeah. He's prickly pear and he is not easy to calm down. So he only likes things that calm
him down. Yeah. Right. He's not going to be a sativa lover. He probably doesn't think any sativas are elites. Yeah. He doesn't
want to get hyped up or psychedelic or energized or excited. You know he wants to be mellowed out. And so people look for
different highs amongst things. And you know and there's different strokes. And you know to me an elite is just enough people.
Right. Yeah. And you know now there's this whole thing I always call them midsy elites right where everybody with modern
marketing we wasn't prepared for modern marketing. No. All these companies all these head stashed all these Cali companies all
these different companies. Everybody has to have the bomb. Everybody has to have elite. Everybody has to pump their shit up.
Everybody has to use flowery fucking language. You know. And really to me is like what an elite is is like people were willing to
hold on to that shit during prohibition. People yeah. Great. If people were willing to hold on to it people cared about it. People
wanted to like you know to you know and even that a bunch of them got lost. Yeah. So you might not like something. But if
enough people like I mean for instance you know I don't like most cookie. Yeah. But there's enough people out there that love
cookie and breed with it like you know I might be in the minority in that regard. Exactly. Yeah. Burn the greatest. And it has
kind of a semi blandish high. You know and my thing is like I like highs. Yeah. People feed that gets me high and it can be
anything from dog shit to chem D to dog to you know I can deal with racy. I can deal with couch walk. I can deal with all that.
Like I just want it to be potent and different. And if it's got a roller coaster rides and if it's got turps and burns right then
that's me too. You know. Yeah. You know you know I mean that's the most common thing is something comes out that's popular and
then everybody's like oh that guy sucks or that weed sucks or his weed sucks. You know because I don't like him specifically or
whatever you know. But that's irrelevant. It's like it is. If people use your stuff to breed you're winning. Yeah. You know
whatever you want to say about Neville you know there are a bunch of cuts that people still hold on to tightly that come directly
from dude. And there's one I'm 30 years old and 20 years old and then there's still some of the hardest to get most tightly held
cuts still. It speaks to itself. You know you know I basically feel like I don't want to diss people but I basically feel like if
you're breeding there's like three ways to like know whether or not you're a good breeder is like can your stuff pop elites. Yeah.
They're in keepers. I would rather I would rather have a high ceiling where there's a percentage of absolute shit in the line than a high
floor and a low. Right. So I don't care if there's a bunch of junk in the line as long as the line can produce amazing cannabis. Yeah.
If it just produces a bunch of meds and none of it's too bad and none of it's too great. I don't think that's particularly impressive.
No it's not personally you know like and if someone takes your stuff and they start breeding with it that's impressive. Yeah.
Because it's other breeders want to use your shit. Exactly. It's worth carrying on in their lines. They find value in it. Sure.
Even better than that if someone wants to take your shit steal it rename it try to claim it as theirs. Well then they really like your shit.
Yeah. And maybe they steal it and maybe you don't get any money for it or maybe you don't get any rep for it or whatever. Yeah.
What it do is you undeniably improve the gene pool. And at the end of the day that's only what fucking matters. Yeah.
Because at the end of the day a lot of this no one's going to remember a lot of this names like like the amount of people that actually know who
Seattle Greg is is fucking tiny. Correct.
Giant. Give me a minute. A lot of people that remember Neville will be a lot smaller. Yeah.
Certain of these things people even super famous people will be forgotten. You know but their weed lives on. They made a contribution to the
gene pool. They improved it. They made it a little cooler. You know. And so you know I mean that's just one guy's opinion. I'm just one guy.
But I mean you know that's kind of how I view it is like I like good pot. And essentially what you're looking for is you're looking for.
You know if you're looking for elites you're looking for LeBron James. Yeah. You're looking for the one you know pick a hot supermodel that
you're personally attracted to. You're looking for that. Yeah. You're looking for rarity in the line. Yeah. It's not very many people that
come out built like LeBron James that have the combination of athleticism and strength and height and everything else you know.
Thing with weed. But it's true. It's the same thing with weed. Yeah. You know freaking Neville says he grew up thousands of NL 5
hazes. Yeah. Over time. And the ones that are getting traded now are the ones he selected out of all those. Yeah. So many so many good
was probably a bunch of junk. Oh I'm sure there's a lot in there. Tons. You know. And you know. So I mean you know it's it's not easy to
find elites. You know I mean I did. You know I went to Amsterdam in the 90s and I bought hundreds of seeds and I found a bunch of junk.
Yeah. You know the Mendo perps. I got one female. Yeah. Just happened. Yeah. Dog. You know he popped two seeds in the beginning. Yeah.
One of them became Kim sis. One of them became dog. Yeah. Boom. Two seeds. There's only one smaller pop that's possible right.
Right. Yeah. You know. Yeah. Seeds. He got dog. Boom. There you go. You know. So sometimes you can hunt and hunt and hunt and hunt.
Yeah of course. I think that breeding with heirloom heirloom or land re strange is a promising path to finding elites. It sure is a bunch of
work because there's a bunch of junk in there and you got to do that junk. Like that's the thing is like all the stuff we're doing today.
It's like you know we're building on what they did 30 or 40 years ago. So you know in the beginning there's all these different groups
breeding things and then they made it over to Europe and Neville and a couple others got to combine them.
That stuff got sent out to America and now we're grandchildren and great grandchildren and great great grandchildren. But it's all off the
work of others. You know and it took. Yeah I mean scab you know scabby's on here. Yeah. You know he goes you go. I watch his
feed. He goes through a bunch of sativas bunch. You know he gets a bunch of junk. Yeah. He'll say I'm sure he'll say yeah. There's a
good amount of junk. But then every once in a while. Boom. That is not junk. Yeah. Fire. You know. And that fire makes it worth it to
get all the junk. You know I mean I bought I bought dozens of NL 5 a seeds from the era. Yeah. I never found shit I wanted. Yeah.
But yeah the Colorado cough the piff the heights Hayes 88 the Cuban black haze dog shit. The dog shit. You know those are just the
ones in America. Yeah. Correct. And L5 Hayes like there is not another hybrid out there that I know anyone that I know anyone where
there isn't. There's that many named elites that still exist. Yeah I don't either. I really don't. I've used literally has double digit
named elites that have survived both in America and Europe. Yeah. Right there. That's the only. And Kim dog like the cuts like that.
It spawned a lot of S1 and bag seed or the only other things I could think that compared to that. That's like that's that's different lines
and different pops and different things. Yeah. No. No. Five years was just like literally one line. Yeah that's true. It's a very good
point. Just one. And it was only it was only there for six years or something before that. Before they lost the NL 5 cut. OK. Before we start
cutting into our podcast territory I did it back. No let's head it back to diesel so we don't cut into our podcast material. All right.
So so let me just state this you know like for for everybody hears it. So like I mean I don't know you know Kim fam is a weird word or
whatever. I guess you could call me Kim fam on some level. That I got a hold of the cuts in the 90s and pretty early. But I was part of
the California side of things which was basically me Staten Island skunk VA and I see collective. Yeah. So a bunch of the stuff that
happened east. That wasn't my crew. That wasn't who I was friends with. I didn't meet or know of those people other than like stories
until way later. You know and so some of these things you know I don't have as old of experience with. Sure. You know you know the
diesel you know more than most of them. As you know I have almost no personal experience with. Sure. You know in terms of me actually
growing it some of these things I've had for forever. Yeah. And you know some made their way to me relatively late. So yes. A buddy and I are
friends. We don't see each other that frequently but we are buddies. Yes. So the reason I wanted to bring up the diesel was because it's a
mate for me. It's where I come in. I have no I had an MSS cut. I am positive it was fake early on. I have no experience with MSS itself.
However what I have a lot of experience with is the diesel and the S1s and I've I've been able to go through a shitload of the S1s over the years and
out crosses of the diesel and see what it is. And through finally what I talked about earlier asking Skunk VA is this mass skunk cut in this high
times the same cut that you and not so we're growing. And he said no. And at that moment I realized diesel might not be directly related to
that super skunk cut like I had been assuming all these years. This is a plan of carry with me for a long time. You know before me Bode was
carrying it for a long time. And yeah. So it really changed everything I think I knew about that plan. And I'm not sure. At this point we don't
know if if diesel is an S1 of the mass skunk but we and the mass skunk may or may not be S1 hybrid of the original super skunk that was popped by
Skunk VA's mentor. So yeah that's where we're at. Yeah I mean you know it's it's tough because you know I know I put this in the most
diplomatic way possible. Let's just say that you know a lot of a lot of this history that was being made was being made by a bunch of young
partyers. Yeah yeah. Young you know ragers. Oh man look at that. So let me just respond to that one. Plant based ma. I have like I have like so
many friend requests. When when 215 ended I kind of stopped posting a bit because I was angry and I haven't really posted very much since. You
know maybe if you hit me up in the DMZ or something like that after that and request I'll poke you through and you can look at some of my old
posts. I mean I wasn't super prolific or anything like that but there is some cool shit on there. But it's it's a couple of years old at this
point. But getting getting back to what I was chatting about is that like let's take Chem Dog for a minute. Right. Sure. Everybody wants Chem Dog to
have all this amazing information and all this specifics and all this other shit. Right. You know I mean he was he was 17 years old or whatever in 91 18
when when he popped the 91 the Chem Dog insists. Yeah. Right. Most of the stuff that was happening he was in his late teens early 20s. He was a
deadhead. He was partying. He was having a good time. He was growing weed in a police state where he could get in a lot of trouble for getting in
trouble for doing it. You get in trouble at one point you know. Yeah. And so you've got it. You've got a bunch of people and people don't realize
that like you know the amount of information that everyone has there has access to at their fingertips now is fucking incredible. Yeah. When I
started growing weed in 1993 I shit you not. I bought Mel Frank and Ed Rosenthal's deluxe growers guide and I bought Jorge Cervantes his
growers guide and I bought Robert Connell Clark's marijuana botany and I knew no one that grew weed and there was no Internet and there was no
forums and there was no shit and you were scared to tell anyone. And so information traveled slowly. It spread around the way that it does now
super fast. You know people learn things over time and and slow. You know. And so you know a lot of people you know people's memories differ
too you know and like things get famous and then certain people get asked Hey give me the play by play of what you were doing when you were
taking a bunch of acid at 21 years old and chasing shit running around doing all this stuff. I really want to know specifically what
happened. Yeah. And you're like oh OK. So yeah. So then this happened and then and then we all know like just like getting back to your true
crime thing right. They've determined that one of the worst forms of evidence ever is eyewitnesses. Yeah absolutely. They've just proven that
people's memories are fucked up. Yeah. They're not the greatest. And people can have you ever had a business partner you've ever had a you're you
ever had a grow partner or whatever and you end up not liking each other at the end. Oh I have like very different opinions of how that shit
started. Sure. Yeah. You know shit happened and whatever happened happened. But people can have very different mindsets about what
happened. Yeah absolutely. You know. And so you know I mean you know maybe that gets saved for the podcast or whatever. Whenever I whenever I
poke holes in somebody's gig you know it's not like I'm not trying to chop anybody down. It's mostly historical accuracy. Yeah. No. Rather
than like I think this person's a liar. Did you hear not so doggy. That guy's fucking scumbag. You know but you know I don't really. Yeah.
You know. And so we don't know when diesel was made. No we don't know when the seeds were made. We don't know how many years between
when the seeds were made and when they were popped. Right. Correct. You know. So you know nothing about it actually. We know virtually
nothing. We know that it was called Greg's diesel. Yeah. That's it. Diesel. And it had some pretty orange hairs. Yeah. You know I mean at
some point like I mean you know Matt and I have tried to figure out an enormous amount of information about Hayes specifically and it comes
down to the end of the day. You know Neville has a story. Sam Skunkman a.k.a. David Watson has a story. They agree on a large variety of
the parts. There's some parts they don't agree and there's not very good like external evidence to like lean one way or the other. Yeah.
So Jesus that way. Yes. We don't know when I mean people say day wrecker dude. So I mean the heck we can talk about that on the podcast or
whatever. But the headband the headbands the sours that whole family and how all that shit works. That story is nuts. That's a clusterfuck.
Multi even us know multiple people intimately involved in the creation of it and being able to pick their brains at length. Right. Yeah. Like to figure it
out. You get a bunch of info but there's still parts where you're like oh fuck you know. Yeah. That's not a that's not easy to determine. And so day
wrecker headband sour this this this this. There's these names that are interchangeable. Right. Same thing with you know the 88
Hayes the Heights Hayes the pit. You've been black haze all that like those names get used interchangeably but they're the same cut. No.
Knowing the people that know enough of the differences to actually say this cut is this and this cut is that is tiny. Yeah. And so so you know
she's you know Jeezel is I mean it's obviously super skunk. Yes. That's the one thing we know about it for sure is that it has heavy super
scum. You can look at it and you know and you can tell that it's super scum. Yes. Super skunk for people that don't know is is basically it's a plant
called Afghan T which is this guy named Jim Ortega and Sam crossed it or Neville crossed it to a very skinny male. He had that he got from Sam
Scott man Robert Connell Clark and that adding that Afghan back to the skunk created the rankness right. Yeah. And that rankness is
unmatched. You know it really is. It really is unmatched. And so you know you know having grown a bunch of super skunk myself both the famous
cut and the seeds Matt you know Matt's cut of Jeezel is undeniably a super skunk. Correct. You know now does it lean away from the rank skunk. Yes.
Yes. You know it's buttery. Pip described it best. Buttery skunk. Buttery skunk. Whatever you know. So very pleasant. So it's in the family. You know.
Yeah. And obviously it doesn't breed very easily for scoops for super skunk. Oh man don't call it the murder cut please. Oh God please. The murder.
No. He hates that name. He hates it. I don't even use the word hate my life generally speaking but it's true. It's a it's not a good name for a variety of
reasons. But you know the and obviously like you know the the the super skunk rankness might be a recessive thing. You know because obviously it hasn't been
very easy to find and you've done a bunch of hybrid. You know you've done a bunch of hybrids with Jeezel. So it hasn't popped. Correct. You know. And you know it's not foot and mouth dude.
That's one of the things where like you know like the name of it is. It's not even like that. The nickname of that headband is untrue. It just got added so much after the fact.
Very late. There is almost a joke now. Within the last few years that that nickname got added to that headband cut. And I would just greatly prefer that we pick some other nickname besides that one.
Like 56 day. Sorry about the sinking. So we call that 56 day really.
In all in all honesty it's not even it's probably a bit longer than that. Yeah it is. I've never taken a 56.
And and it's not headband either really. So there's a whole bunch of that. That's a whole bunch of different things you know. So there's a few headbands that are renamed cushions. Yes.
And there's a variety of reasons behind why that is the headband we were just talking about. There's a really good reason related to that name that I don't like why they renamed it.
Yeah there's another headband that you know fucking got renamed because you know it's shyster in a way.
But so you know if people really I mean probably the closest thing to the original super skunk in my opinion.
Is my headband cut that we call the L.A.
Which doesn't always throw super skunk turps but at times can. Yeah. And crack a jar and you know and then
You know, and then the original sour. Yeah. You know the original sour at times can be skunky depending on how you grow it and what you know how hot it is when you pull it.
707 headband is is not the cut I'm discussing 707 headband is a strain created by Mandelbrot and he used the the mother of that cut is the cut I was talking.
And you know so people can't see this because I can't post it, but I posted some pictures of original original sour diesel.
Right next to skunk VA's super skunk cuts.
And you can you can just I mean you can just absolutely see the family resemblance. Yeah. Yeah. You know the spears the way they form you know all that kind of stuff you know it's just clearly there so she's not lost.
In entire different name. She just got mixed with some different things and she does exist. Yeah, you know, right now the breeding world mostly sucks.
The people that have the real heart are generally speaking doing it in a garage or other small areas still rooms and things like that. And the people that have a bunch of money and a bunch of time and a bunch of shit in the legal world and all the space in the world.
They're not really using that to do a bunch of real breeding and isolate things and find it. You might be able to isolate super skunk from original South. Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. It should take some it should take some time, but it would take time and a bunch of space. Yeah.
And, you know, hold on real quick since we're down to the last 15 minutes. So what I'm going to do.
Just while me and not so are continuing to talk, you guys can bid in the chat, but what I'm going to put up is 100 pack of diesel and 100 pack of sour diesel are up for bid so place your bids whatever whoever has it near the end, we'll call it whatever. So, please your bids now in here and me and not so going to continue talking.
And he is he is not full of shit.
What he knows about he knows about, you know, yeah, and he has been very honest. And what you know and when he made his and when when he made his podcast, you know, one of our mutual buddies and him back in the day.
You know, he was upfront and honest about it, you know, and so, um, you know, the dog the super skunk the various, you know, the other things that we talked about.
past. One of our mutual buddies and him, we don't see eye to eye very much anymore. And
so he listened to it. And even he had to say, he was upfront and honest about it. And so
the dog, the super skunk, the various cuts and strains that he's had access to, he is
a reliable source on information for that.
He's a good dude and he's got love for the plant. And really what, I mean, I just told
him this the other day, is like really what it boils down to over a long time is, are
you good to people and do you have a love for the plant? And people that have a love
for the plant and a curiosity and a reason for knowledge and trying to find that out,
it proves itself over time. And he's definitely not the most outspoken of the chem fam in
terms of history and stuff like that, especially before his podcast. But he's reliable and
he's honest about it. And so-
That's because he's a punk rocker and he knows what the fuck's up.
I mean, at the end of the day, dude, there's just, like line catches up to you.
It does. It does. And I think a lot of times when people, especially early on, were renaming,
relabeling shit, it was people that were doing it that didn't understand breeding themselves
in the first place. So they didn't know that later down the line people were going to be
able to pop these things and be able to see these traits and expressions and be like,
oh shit, yeah.
So the naming thing is tough. And maybe, I mean, it's always hard to figure out, like
Matt and I, we're going to do a series of podcasts together or whatever. And we're going
to talk about a bunch of history. Maybe some of you will find it interesting or not. And
yeah, someone talked about headband. We can do a variety of subjects. I mean, as long
as there's interest, we can keep doing them because we want to get this out there. So
there's some pushback against the people that are just, you know, I don't have any skin
in the game in the sense that I'm not making any money off any of this. I don't have seeds
to sell. I'm not coming out with, you know, I have various friends that have tried to
push me, Matt's one of them, into releasing things to the public or whatever. And it's
like, you know, I mean, maybe that'll happen in the future or something, but really what
it boils down to is, you know, I want the truth to be out there for the most part, you
know? And so maybe I'll use a couple examples real quick with the time we have left. So
the nickname thing, it's definitely part of American culture and it's cool as hell. A
group of friends, they get a cool cut, they give it a fucking nickname. The nickname sticks.
It gets passed as that nickname, right? You know, I mean, for instance, you know, the
puck, you know, the rumor is, is the puck got the nickname the puck because their buddy
used to carry it around in a hockey puck canister.
Yeah. Like a little bubble tape thing. Yeah.
Like, no, hockey puck canisters are these like hard black round, you know, there's like,
they literally just hold a hockey puck.
Yeah.
And he would keep his weed in there. And so it got named the puck, you know, when it
really is a hash plant.
Yeah.
No, you know, the, the snow, for instance, you're in CSI's crew in Humboldt, you call
it Humboldt snow.
Yes.
If you're part of my friend, my friend crew that comes out of like the Eugene glassblowing
crew, you called it Eugene snow.
Yeah. Or Oregon snow. Yeah.
Oregon snow, right? The guy and his girlfriend who I both know who drove it out from Florida.
In Florida, it was called skunk five.
Oh, wow. I didn't know that.
Yeah. Skunk five. Like I literally like I, my, my kids are friends with the, the girl
who her and her boyfriend drove it out. She was just down the way from me. Yeah. For forever.
It was called skunk five in Florida in the early nineties before they drove it to Eugene.
Wow.
Okay. So skunk five, right? Is it shortened? Is it NL five skunk one from Neville? Could
be that right?
Could be.
NL five skunk one. Is it basic five from SSSE?
Oh yeah. That was around a lot.
Is it something they bought some hybrid they bought and then it's the five?
Yeah.
You know?
That would be, yeah. The fifth pot. Yeah.
I mean, the five makes me think that it's likely an NL it's, it's likely an NL five
skunk one. If I had to guess.
I could see that. Yeah.
But that's just an, that's just an example of like in Florida, it's one name and Eugene
and Oregon. It's one name. But in Humboldt, it's another name. Yep. Right. Another, another
thing that we could do is, you know let's talk about the dog shit, right? Yes. Yeah.
Dog shit had one of the coolest names in fucking cannabis by far, by far one of the coolest
names and inspired name supposedly came out of Minnesota, Minneapolis era, early nineties.
It's supposed to be an NL five Hayes and in many in Minnesota, they called it electric
boogaloo. That's correct. Which is a kill name, right? Uh, it gets taken to Oregon.
Somebody renames it dog shit. The worst name. It didn't even smell like feces. The people
that passed it out, it's from Oregon, so it gets called dog shit. So everybody calls it
dog shit. Yeah. Almost nobody knows it's called electric boogaloo, but it wasn't electric
boogaloo either. And so what this does, okay, is for everybody, for everybody that's out
there is it just makes figuring out the fucking lineage of what these things actually are
and what seed companies they came from really hard. Yeah, it does. But he gave nicknames
to shit, right? Yeah. And so once you give nicknames to stuff, then it's like a very
small group of people are going to know what the previous name was, you know? And the only
reason why I know that snow was skunk five is because I literally know the people that
drove it out in their car from Florida to Oregon. Yeah. Well, that's great too. Those
people are, that's just luck of the draw. Right. And so, you know, you know, those are
just two examples. You know, I think, I think electric boogaloo is an NL five Hayes starts
out as NL five Hayes. The first crew names it electric boogaloo. The second crew names
it dog shit. 90% of the people that have it call it dog shit. Yeah. That's that's though.
I'm really I'm I'm I'll push back on that. I'm calling that shit electric boogaloo from
now on electric boogaloo is a great name. You know, yeah. Good snow be called skunk
five. You know, it got called snow because in Oregon it was white. Yeah. Frosty. Dang.
Makes sense. Yeah. You know, and you know, yeah, I mean, you know, so that kind of stuff
happens over and over again. And so what that does is that, you know, because in America
and Canada, so many people give name, give nicknames to stuff. It obscures the fact that
the vast majority of it came from like four or five seed banks. Yeah. Yeah, it does. You
And this is why, like, I really, really and I know you do too. Like, I push people so
hard to learn the history of the baselines. It's why I'm uploading pictures of all the
catalogs so people understand it. And no, it's not. Snowcap is a large yielding semi
midsy Afghan that became very popular in Mendo and other places because it yielded like crazy.
It is not the Eugene, Oregon Humboldt snowbud. It certainly is not. You want to see real
snow, but yeah, the electric boogaloo exists. I have it. Archive has it. I have it. Yeah.
Matt, various people have it. Dog shit. It is. It's a it is a killer strain. It really
is. And it's really nice pot. So, yes, it still exists. Yeah. This guy loves snowcap.
You can love snowcap. It's totally fine. I mean, I don't like it that that much. But,
you know, these names get interchanged, you know. You know, I mean, sour used to be one
cut, you know, here. You know, we throw a Emerald Cup party every year. I brought four
or five different sours to the party that I. And that was bomb. But none of them were
the same. No, they were. You know, none of them were the same. And so these name games
get changed and changed and changed. I prefer Mendo P to Urkel. But you but I meet you.
But as far as smoking. Because Urkel fucking makes me go in bad places. You know, Urkel
is, you know, Urkel's, you know, Urkel's interesting. And maybe we can talk about that in the in
the in the podcast. But I'll say when I talked about earlier in the podcast, like I am not
fair family, although I have attended any number of Oregon Country Fair events. I have
a bunch of friends who would certainly be considered fair family and some of my oldest
friends. Why did I pick the handle not so dog?
We only have five minutes left. So we're gonna have to save that for the podcast.
That for the podcast. But it's just it's a play on the dog. And it's got kind of a silly,
funny story behind it.
I love that story.
Yeah, you know, so I don't know. I mean, I kind of got distracted by that question. And now. Oh,
so Urkel, you know, we'll talk about that real quick. And, you know, earlier in the podcast, I
was talking about on the live, I was talking about how every time a name strain came along,
that became super popular, it crushed what came before. Okay. Yeah. So in Mendo, Mendocino
County, where I live in Northern California, there was so much demand for purple for a
number of years that everyone grew it and no matter how much of it you grew, it moved.
Right. So I'm literally talking there are thousands of growers up here that grew Urkel.
Then sour becomes popular, kush, cookies, skittles, this, that everything else. Now there's
like six motherfuckers that have Urkel.
Yeah, yeah, it's crazy. It's all of a sudden died everywhere.
You know, I mean, you know, if there's a few people that hadn't saved it, it would be
fricking gone like the super skunk.
Yep.
And we're lucky that CSI saved it and loves it and decided to breed it into all kinds of
stuff so it can't be lost.
Exactly.
We went in 15 years from literally thousands of people in Humboldt and Mendocino County
having it to almost no one in either of those counties having it.
It was being sold as a clone in almost every collective as a and the legit cut was being
sold in almost every clone or collective clone.
Fast forward 10 or 15 years and nobody cares about it because, you know, it's not
marketable currently.
And yeah, 9% of people that had it drop it and they grab something that's more
marketable.
Breeder Syndicate, the podcast, it's available on iTunes, Spotify, Sound, I don't
know.
And it's coming soon.
I had I had some life issues.
I was supposed to record it with Matt a few weeks ago.
I had some stuff come up.
It became, you know, problematic for me to do it.
But we're going to keep doing it.
You know, a lot of you guys probably know Fletcher from Archive and CSI, you know,
Matt and myself, we're all good friends.
We're all planning on doing various historical podcasts in various ways, shapes
and forms to try to get as much of that history out there as we can that we know
about, you know, and and have people be able to hear it, you know, from someone that's
not trying to sell you shit.
So yeah, and it's hard for people to research, you know, even even the forums, a
lot of the forums are gone.
You can't find a lot of that info that was up there once.
And it'll be a cool place to have a resource for people to stream.
If you know mostly what you're looking for and you already know how to weed through
bullshit.
Yeah.
If you don't know how to weed through bullshit, boy, you know, you can get a lot
of bad info.
OK, I'm going to give a call last minute on the option.
So if you're going to bid now, it's 100 seeds of the sour bonnet and 100 seeds of
the diesel bonnet.
Yeah.
Damn seeds, I still have to record it with Matt.
Like I said, we got delayed.
It already should have been done.
I slacked.
I had life issues.
We're going to try to do it.
We're going to do a series of them.
If there's interest in it continuing, you know, there's a lot of history out there
and we'd love to get it out there and have people talk about it.
So thank you, everybody, for listening, paying attention and all that jazz.
All right.
It looks like no till you're the man.
You're the oh, wait, wait, wait.
Breathe easy.
Came in.
Breathe easy.
Came in.
The minute isn't up.
Breathe easy.
Came in.
Well, I got to put that shit.
I got to take well, breathe easy at 1650.
So people know I always try to pin it, but my I.G.'s fucked up.
Anyway, we're literally down to the last 50 seconds.
So if you're going to bid now or forever hold your peace, breathe easy.
There it is.
And not to think so much, man.
I'm on my phone on this.
So anybody that that I might have missed some comments, if I didn't respond to you, I wasn't ignoring you.
I probably just missed it or I was thinking and talking and looking at Matt's ugly mug.
So all my friends, thanks for listening.
And, you know, we'll try to do it again very soon and make it a little bit more regular of occurrence.
All right.
Lots of love, bud.
Have a great evening.
You too.
Thank you.
Thanks, everyone.
Lots of love.
I'll message.
I'll message you.
Breathe easy.
