Howdy, howdy, that little flam.
Stinky.
Hey flam, if you have time this might be a good one to record with not so coming on.
Thank you dear.
Hey, what's up Green Candy Press?
What's up brother?
Long time no talk.
Curbside.
What's up fool?
Consolation.
Keeping on and on.
How you guys doing?
Welcome, welcome.
That Green Candy Press, I miss you guys!
All right good, I love you too.
Skitch.
Skitch bitch.
What's up?
Skitch bitch, what's up?
Swerve of Lisa someone said where's the swerve of Lisa?
That was Brin's uh
Lovely creation she had like that was all her she saw the Venus de Milo and saw swerve standing like she's like this
Motherfucker had to fucking prepare it this way
Yeah swerve of Lisa
Swerve de Milo
Okay, so wait a little bit for people to start coming in for those of you already in here
So I've got a big box next to me
of some oldies and goodies and
There's a lot more. This is just the stuff that's packed up, but
But we've got some cool little treats like this for the auction and now so you guys know at the beginning
We're gonna do the auction at the end of the show near the end
But I'm not sure how long this one's gonna take this might be a
This might be a two to our long one. We don't know yet
Depends on how long they want to take it and how annoying is that that everybody who?
Messages me it makes a loud ass noise
There he is awesome. Awesome
Beautiful beautiful beautiful
How goes it are you doing I'm good you're perfect man good to see you
All right, so yeah, I decided like you know, I mean we talk all the time
We've been trying to figure out the whole super skunk fiasco
Yep from from point of where?
I guess
What was it?
What how do we want to
Label certain people well, I mean we can just call a skunk boss skunk va
Huh since everybody knows
Everybody's familiar with that moniker. Yeah
Him dog is chem dog. That's another familiar moniker. Mm-hmm skunk von my old buddy
I think during the podcast he called him his buddy from Staten Island. Okay, let's do that
Yeah, and he's a private dude and kind of out of the scene at this point
so we're just gonna like not say his name out of
Respect and that he's he's a he's long
You know, his part is important but long ago. So yes out of respect for him. We won't we'll just refer to him in code
Yeah, that's perfect strangely he's one of those rare people in the industry that is not seeking past fame
Yeah, no, it's not P but guys. No, he is actually the opposite
Yeah, so let's start with where do you want to start the super stonk story at where should we start it at?
We'll start at the beginning. There we go. Okay, great. So my buddy from Staten Island
Him and skunk VA were very good friends and they used to travel and tour together dead tour days, right?
Yeah, and in the early 90s
Dude wanted to move out to the West Coast in California and he was more into seeing
Jerry Garcia shows than he was into seeing the actual dead, right? Yeah, but Jerry would play at the war field
basically every month
Right like a big-ass hippie gathering at the war field, you know, and so my buddy
kind of stopped touring moved to Sonoma County
and
Started seeing every Jerry show there. Okay, obviously Jerry shows are
You know, they're like honey to deadheads
so
You know, so a whole bunch of deadheads would always attend
The shows at the war field, right
correct, so skunk Bob being
Being from Virginia, right a lot of his old crew and mentors and various things like that were East Coast, right?
Yeah, so
one time some of these guys came out and from the East Coast and
they
Were partying with all those guys at the war field. Okay, okay
So skunk Von eyes mutual friend
Used to have this strain called the Francine
All right, and it does not pretty little offset but tells about Francine a little bit
Francine is a mystery indica that we didn't use the term at the time, but it was about as turpy as turpy gets
Yeah
Eventually dude dropped it because like a lot of Afghans it had a horrific mold problem
Yeah, and as you know, you know when you when you grow things that horrifically look beautiful and horrifically mold
At times it's very depressing harvest time. Oh, yeah, I've been to you a few times with a cut and get PTSD and
Decide to drop it, you know, like yeah good people get emotional about it. So what does she smell like?
You know it it was a really good combination of like that
Like that Afghan kind of acrid funk, yeah, I think but with with like a fruity
Aspect but not like the tropical sativa kind of fruit. It just had like a really deep like
Like foot funk fruit kind of flavor to it. I think Oh Wow. So anyway, so these dudes loved it. Yeah, right and
They loved it so much they were willing to trade this skunk that they had for it
Okay, so separately to all this story and skunk vase kind of talked about this extensively on his on his podcast
So I'll just briefly touch on it. Well, you're a dog chem dog wouldn't give out the dog
Which is what we call it to anyone, right? He held it for tight
He didn't want anybody in his circle getting it. He didn't want to get cut off
You know or have other people sell it but when homie moved to
California he agreed look I'll give it to you if you just don't ever share it with anybody back east
Yeah, right. Yeah, don't want to compete markets totally don't make sense. It's don't share it. So
Basically, what happened is that skunk bar range with his buddies to trade the Francine for the skunk?
Dude decided to make a double trip where he would bring the Francine out
To Virginia and he would trade it for the skunk and then he would drive up to Massachusetts and he would get
The chem dog that was promised to him, right? Dude, that's committed that is committed in
1993
Homie drove across a bunch of shady ass states with little plants
You know not very many and small but still, you know still yeah, Nancy if he got pulled over he probably would add to eat
Them, you know or something. Yeah. Yeah, and we have their state checkpoints
You gotta do all kinds of you know, this was actually pre pre
To use a term we joke about most of the highway 80 drug checkpoints and stuff like that
Yeah, this was in 93. So they really hadn't gotten to the point where they were like, oh, we're gonna get a drug check
Yeah, this was in 93 so they really hadn't gotten wise to that too much
Oh good, if you took the middle route you you were pretty much safe for the most part
I mean you could still get pulled over, you know, and he definitely looked like a hippie
I bet like he wasn't yeah, no secret sauce or anything like that. He didn't look like a young Republican or anything
Yeah, yeah, and so so he drives out to
Virginia and
Meets
What we just learned actually recently ended up being dudes actual worker because the dude had already kind of gone on the run for a
bit and
Weaving and so he gets this this super skunk cut
Okay, and I want to interject as far as we know the person we're referring to
Not by name the Staten Island guy
That as far as we know this is skunky is mentor
So this is how close we can put skunk VA to the beginning of this cut as far as we know
The guy that agreed to do it is the mentor
But apparently the guy that actually did the trade is one of his workers exactly
But I asked when all this confusion came up a few years ago. I read I asked
Staten Island
Do you remember the exchange?
Well enough to be absolutely sure what did he call it?
Yeah, if you fast-forward to like when I became friends with these guys in the late 90s
It was always called super skunk, right? Yes, so
Staten Island
He gets you know, he told me that straight up dude said this is a super skunk cut
Okay, so he gets it straight forward. Yeah, so he trades he gets it then he drives to, Massachusetts
Okay, and he meets up with chem dog and he gets the 91
We all call it the dog, but you know everybody on the internet calls it skunk VA cut or 91 or whatever
So yeah, but everybody back then it was just the dog
Bunch of these dudes were organic growers. And so he was chem dog. They didn't want to put him on it
Yeah, my buddy. They weren't super into calling it chem dog because they grew fully organic. So
So we just
Dog and amongst all of us long before it got famous or anything like that. That's just kind of a shorthand
You know, I've been writing that on labels now for two decades, right? So
So he got an extra cut or two of this super skunk
Okay. Okay, and he gave one to chem dog
Okay. Okay, so that's so
Chem dog got it basically by accident. Yeah, he got it by proxy just like accident by proxy
He got it because homie decided to go to Virginia before, Massachusetts
That's crazy. What a what a wild he could have reversed it and gone, Massachusetts, Virginia home
Yeah, but he went Virginia, Massachusetts home. That's it
Changed a lot that act that choice in my opinion. I mean we've talked about this a bunch or whatever that ended up
Leading to a whole series of accidental events that became super important, right? Correct. Yeah
You know, so then he drives back home
Right. Yep. He's got super skunk in the dock
Okay, and if you went to Warfield shows in San Francisco to see Jerry band
You probably could have seen him slinging all that in front of the show every single month. Yeah. Yeah
So skunk father took a different tact and he could speak to this for himself, but he kept touring basically
right
so
when Jerry died in August
this next week here we call this the days between
Because Jerry's birthday is on the 1st of August and his death is on the is in a week now or something like that
And so these are like Easter for hippies
Yeah, it's sort of like the yeah, it's the it's the Easter week or whatever so
You know skunk Vaughn decided to settle down after Jerry passes
right and
That's when he started growing
Mm-hmm, no, cuz obviously to grow you have to be semi stable. It's not a really dramatic lifestyle, right? So yeah
So those pictures that he's been posting of Polaroids and everything like that or after our buddy gave him
The cut from his friends in Virginia and he started growing it yes, right. Yep. Um, so that's basically how
That's basically how this this cut from Virginia made its way to Sonoma County the Bay and Massachusetts
And see and then this is a great intro to to the chem dogs story as well, which we will cover in our podcast which
Will eventually be here soon. Yeah, so
So that's the start of that's the start of the super skunk movie
You know, I I met I didn't know them then
personally
couple years after that
and
My you know my my buddy
He fell in love with the Mendo P
Yeah, a couple other things or whatever. And so he ended up giving me the super skunk and the dog for safekeeping
you know and
That's in the late 90s. That's kind of how I got it and you've had it
Well, like not the super skunk but the chem 91 and it stayed with you ever since. Yeah, I've had that since I never lost
It no
Unfortunately, the super skunk was lost
But we'll get to that
Yeah, okay. So, you know, so we have this stuff right and
You know, this is obviously
What is it, you know, so late 90s 2000 2001 this whole little era right then
So you've got like the internet is in it's like infancy essentially, right?
Overgrow had just began in 98. Yeah
So there really wasn't any internet fame
Yeah, right all these things that have become super famous and like holy grails and all these people trying to figure out stuff, right?
Most of the stories that I believe
That I've heard about this stuff comes from that era. Yeah, because that was when there was nobody gave a shit
Yeah in the sense. There's no reason to bull about any of it. There was no fame associated with it
There was no rap. There was no I mean it was literally like
There was like four people in California who had yeah, exactly. There was me
Scott
Our buddy and
I see collective. Yes, I see collective. Yes, right
Who was really close friends with skunk ba? You know?
Yeah
and and Greg and that and he and he ended up like
Moving in with skunk bond. That's how he got the cut. So there was literally like four of us
Yeah, so not very big and it's now back then you had enormous fan base
Yeah, so not very big and it's now back then you had enormous rooms or anything like that, you know, yeah
It really wasn't very much of it even being produced
Yeah, you're blowing it up with the four lighter. Essentially. You're mostly mostly
Eight six fighters. Okay, I see you got slinging hard
12 lighters or whatever, but yeah
but yeah, you know and so
So just to keep it back on the super skunk tip
Um, you know, obviously it's been quite a long time
But here here's what I know for sure
It was I
Never ever heard it called anything but super skunk
Okay, no, obviously we've had some debate amongst friends. Oh sure. There's a whole different thing
We can get into later about whatever about some different different names and stuff
Yeah air may not be the exact same thing through different crews or whatever but as far as as far as my little group goes
That's what it was always called
Straight super skunk and so buddy from Staten Island. Okay
Mm-hmm, he would love like when we'd have trimmers over you could pull side branches of that thing and you hold it up to the
The picture in the catalog of the 90 seed bank, right?
And it was like a dead ringer
Yeah, you would you could find buds on the plants that like match that look exactly
Yeah, it was very very uniform witnessed him dozens of times over multiple crops, right?
Just because he was just so cool because it's like yeah exactly like the picture in the catalog, right?
Yeah, and he could show you. Hey, this really is super skunk you're buying, you know, and so
You know in a lot of ways, you know, it was a sketchy plant
That was you know, that was the very beginning of the 215 era
Right, but it wasn't really, you know 215 had like multiple eras right the first five or six
215 like the cops the courts everything it was still pretty much underground. Yeah
Yeah, you're still getting fuck people hadn't grown to like let's have a greenhouse outside my back door
Yeah, none of that drilling
Indoor was still sketchy. It was still not the jam, you know, yeah, so
So the super skunk
You know the last two or three weeks it literally people joke about carbon filter killer, right? Yeah
It was the only strain I've ever grown that
Absolutely defeated every opportunity I ever had to win
I
Don't even know any other way to describe it the amount
Yeah
Burn it would give me like I would pull up with two weeks to go in front of my house in
Summer and it would smell like a dead skunk in my driveway
Yeah, I know the feeling not with it's ghost but every direction and so, you know back then you're just like oh my god
You know that is yeah be nerve-wracking and so
At which I had obviously people know on this on this thing what scrubbers are I had a
Co2 scrubber with a fan scrubbing the room
Mm-hmm. I had a
Carbon filter. Sorry not co2. I had a carbon filter, right? Yeah, and
So that's scrubbing the room and then I had a carbon filter on the exhaust and then I had one of those huge UV on air
double
Yeah
You know ozone generators
Yes, even did the recommended 25 or 30 feet of tubing before it went out the building to make sure it had time to mix
Yeah, and it still smelled like I was slaughtering skunks in my backyard
That's kind of how it was, you know, so
It was trippy in that regard
And you know it it was it was I don't know it looks dense
Huh, even when it looked dense it was still it still weighed light
Yeah, those things were like you, you know, you put a nug on there and you're like, oh this is gonna be impressive and you're like
No, it's hollow
It was like solid but it was fluffy it's like almost like ice cream or something that had a bunch of air whipped into it
you know and
You know and the turf the weird thing about the turf is that it was super volatile in my opinion like
Really stink until the last bit and then don't for about a month or five weeks after you cut it
Yeah, if you let super skunk go too long in your jar or whatever
It would have eventually kind of smelling semi to generic green butter. Oh
Yes, yeah
We'd go from I could crack a jar in the other room and someone would walk in and ask me what was going on
Mm-hmm, like you would have to like crunch the shit out of it and deeply smell to try to get a whiff
Yeah, that makes sense, but fresh it reeked. Yeah
You know and you know, it's kind of hard to trim it was it could be sparse, you know when it didn't
You know, I mean for most people
The probably the easiest way to think about it is
You know real old-school sour has a lot of similarities to it
Yes, you know so when sour doesn't want to come out the right way
It's a bitch to trim, you know, like people lose people start, you know, your your crew gets disheartened
Oh my god, I got a trim diesel, you know, yeah, right now
Posted some stuff for you the other night that I sent you where like my old sour diesel cutting
It looks like those tops those colas. They really oh, yeah
He those same super skunk tops that skunk thought posts. Yeah, you can really see the similarity in it
You know
So the other thing that that so it had unbelievable turps
I mean when people talk about our KS turps or whatever else it was the terpiest
Skunkiest rankest thing imaginable, you know
it really was and
You know it also, you know, it also harmed like a motherfucker
Yeah, that's like really the first thing I ever heard about Mass Super
When I first started getting into the scene and learning the history and stuff that that shit was a herm bomb
I was a herm bomb it could harm
You know, we would pull it about eight weeks
Sometimes you would
You know, you would try to take it longer because you think maybe it needed to be done more
Mm-hmm, and then would harm for sure. Yeah
The other thing is and this is kind of weird about it. Is that it harmed early, too
Because well as a breeder, right? Yeah
Yeah, oh if you let's say you pull the super skunk at 58 days
Mm-hmm, and you find tiger stripe beans in it. Yeah, when were those beans made? Yeah, you know, they're early on
Primordial they had to be on because it takes a good four to six weeks
Yes, the mature it feel like fully mature and get that dark tiger striping that looks all healthy and stuff, you know
So you pull a strain at 58 days just by the law of
how beans grow
Yeah, had the pot, you know, it's something bad bad had to happen at three weeks
Yeah
Yeah, but that actually that in my opinion, you know, and there's a certain amount of you know
We can get to opinions about it, but that factor
Created a whole bunch of weed that we like. Yeah, I did. That's the crazy part craziest part about all of it through live herms
Yeah, and so okay, so, you know in the in the
You know, uh
The the buddy from Staten Island, right? He was not very into sharing
Yeah, no, I
You know when I got when I got the dog I had to promise that I wouldn't give it out
You know, yes, which I didn't for forever, you know
And I would have like we would have like really good friends of ours that would
Beg me for it and I'd be like, you know who you have to talk to
Get him to call me and say that you can have it and I'll take cuts for you tomorrow
Yeah, but otherwise like I'm not breaking my word
Yeah, of course because like we're all good friends and he's gonna know you have it and then that makes me look like an asshole
You know, so no, you know
Issues and it's like well, this is the you know, this is what I had to do
So he wasn't as strict about the skunk but he kind of felt the same way
Yeah, and you know me like I try to be as like as
etiquette as
Oh, yeah possible with cuts. Yeah, I don't even like to pressure people. I'm just not into it
Like yeah have their own vibe and their own energy about why they come to you or not, you know
Sure, and so, you know, so
What sucks about that is?
That we didn't spread it very far. Yeah, right like we weren't on forums or anything like that or whatever
Staten Island buddy is not weasel
Clop glass. No. Yeah. No, he's not. I'm not paying very much attention to the words at the bottom of the screen
So it's alright as anything maybe Mac can say it or repeat it again or something. But yeah, he's totally not it's totally not him
So, you know
So the fact there two things right is obviously back then most people are growing for profit, you know on some level
and so having a cut that reeks the high heaven and scares your neighbors and
Herms on you
You know, it made it dicey on people holding it
Yeah, and so, you know, we never you know skunk va myself, you know our buddy
We never really spread it. We weren't trading. We weren't active on the forums
you know, we weren't swapping cuts out right and left and stuff and so
you know
That's a you know, that's a different discussion. But as you know, like every time
My opinion is is like every single time a famous named cut happened
Yeah, like purple craze with Urkel and GDP the sour or the cushions
Whatever a whole bunch of amazing diversity just goes to shit
Yeah
because people want to fill their room or their greenhouse or their whatever with something that some guy is gonna come and
Snap it from them, right?
Yeah, they want the the shit that's gonna sell for the most so even amongst most of my close friends
I've always had a bitch of a time getting people to back things up for me
Yeah, people want one or two plants that they're currently doing for production
And they don't hold on to a bunch of stuff that they're doing for safekeeping or heads or whatever, you know
So it wasn't that easy for me to get it to be backed up anywhere, right?
Lee because
You know when it comes to you know production and stuff like that some broker finding seeds is fucking doom
So like hey, do you want to grow this thing that could potentially lightly or heavily seed your room?
Mm-hmm. No
Not at all. Not not really. No, right, you know, so
You know, I mean
So we all grew it
And sorry, I just had to boot someone I didn't want to but he was being a jackass and being real rude so
It's all good
So, I don't know I mean that's kind of the start of the of the Cali
super skunk
You know thing it stayed with our little crew
Yeah, you know and you know the Massachusetts side of things and Greg and all that other stuff
Kendo one second missonic. I'm being real fucking serious. You're being fucking disrespectful as fucking
I'm gonna fuck you up. If you keep it up knock it the fuck off. Have some respect. I've been real fucking cool to you
Okay, cool
So, I don't know. I mean so, you know, I don't know
I have no idea like, you know, what happened with chem dog in Massachusetts
You know who when how he shared what with you know, all that type of stuff
You know as far as this as far as the actual super skunk cut goes, yeah, you know
but it's one of those things where like
You know
Nobody wanted it until it became
Sort of this legendary famous thing and then everybody started poking around trying to figure out who might have kept it, you know
so yeah
Staten Island and I
We had this thing where like two of our favorite strains were obviously the super skunk and the chem dog, right? Yeah and the
Super skunk had the lime green and the frost
I mean, you know from the chem duck, you know from dog dog isn't particularly gorgeous
It's not super frosty compared to the rains. It's darker cut, you know, it cannibalizes its own leaves
It doesn't even always taste great, you know, yeah, sometimes it can taste amazing and I love the flavor
But like I could grow it all year long and only two crops out of five be happy with its flavor at times
Yeah, you know and why exactly?
Why why exactly that is I don't know so we had this idea
And this is long before you know, I mean there was no real American seed companies or anything like that, right?
So we were we were doing a bunch of breeding but we were doing a bunch of breeding that was literally for our taste buds
Like it was not for public consumption at best. It was going to be grown by us and spread out
Yeah, you know we created this we created this thing over time
Staten Island started it and I came on and helped
And you know, we did some work on it together that we eventually called the super dog
Which is in the can of Bible the second one I think yeah
And that was my first that was my first experience with kind of
Really finding a strain that I wanted to hunt and right there
Even though I got along quite well with Jason who wrote it and I gave him a bunch of accurate information
a lot of that got twisted and turned into
Some of his entries about the the dog and the chem dog and the super and all that type of stuff, you know
So be that as it may what we were trying to do is we were trying to
Combine the turps and the look of super skunk
With the potency and some of the density and some of the the niceness of the dog
Sure, you know and it was like a you know, and so
You know and strangely
And this is another thing of why I think maybe it disappeared as we we talked about this recently, too. I
Tend to believe that the skunk and the Herm is related
Yes, like I I can't say for certain but I think it might be a linked trait. I and there's a lot of
Evidence for that, you know, and as you know
you know, there's there's very few traits that people breeding have, you know more prejudice against than
Banana banana sacks with hermeneum, you know, yeah, and so I think inadvertently
People bred away from the skunk. Yeah without realizing it because you know, you breed some stuff
It's a Hermes mass. It reeks. You're like, oh god, that's a Hermes mass
I'm gonna get you know
I'm not gonna breed towards that side and
The idea that you could have a linked trait where you have a very desirable trait and a not so desirable trait
Together, you know
Biggest breeder pain in the ass ever is a link trait with undesirable traits
She's like, oh all the potency comes in these low yielding ones that suck, you know
Yeah, all these have huge donkey dicks and like have the structure is incredible. They're all bland, you know, yep, and so
You know, the problem is is that you know, you have a situation
It's like it's kind of the same thing
Like, you know like I told you about with the Trinity right where the Trinity didn't spread very far and so
When we lost it and I kept trying to get it back
People would give me fakes. Yeah
It's not because they were dicks most of the time but because they never had it back in the day
So when they got it from someone they didn't they had no way of knowing that it wasn't it. Yeah, of course
Yeah, and so then I would have to be the bearer of bad news, you know and be like no this isn't it
Yeah, and people hate the bearer of bad news and that's kind of what's happened with the super skunk right is that yeah
There's obviously this desire in the community to have these these roadkill turps come back, right?
Everyone who finds super skunk has a current seed company and is making seeds to sold to the public
No one ever shows up
to
Events with a couple jars of fresh skunk and lets the proof be in the pudding
Yeah, right. They get the cut they advertise the cut. Here's the cut
We're breeding with the cut buy my seeds find the amazing turps in the cup, right or they get kinks
You know, yeah, and so so you don't know you don't know if if they're lying
Because I don't know or whatever or they just have no I they just never had it in the past
You know to know that to know what skunk is yeah, but actual to what the actual skunk cut is, you know
And so, you know by the early to mid 2000s it had been dropped enough
that
you know
Various people had lost it through, you know, lots of the same reasons that everybody loses cuts
fires busts
accidents
You know people not returning it
I had backed up with a couple people they refused to give it back to me at one point
And then lost it in the future and I had some stuff happen and I lost it and we've been you know
We've been hunting it ever since and sure
You know, I mean, we're both obviously friends with skunk ba
All these new school super skunk finds I
Mean what are you gonna say? They just end up they end up not looking I mean what's awesome is that he's got these
He's got these, you know these pictures these Polaroids
That are undisputable
Proof that was the cut I had that is so big that he has those pictures
We're buddies. We got it from you know, it came from the same place. The story was the same thing, you know, so
You know, it's it's it and yeah, you know, I mean
Yeah, you know you have all these other shorter squatter
Afghan all these other different looking, you know super skunk cuts and then the other part of it too
Is that you have people that like okay, so this guy had the super skunk at once, right?
Well, then as soon as that dude verifies
Right. Yeah. Well then all of a sudden, okay, we have it now we can trade bait it now
we can get spread out now this person has the cut and
You know
And that's the problem, you know, and so, you know, I mean before everybody who's listening. Holy shit
we're up to 242 people on this thing, but
Yeah, the super skunk was not a perfect cut, you know, like it wasn't in my opinion
It wasn't the Holy Grail did it have crazy rare skunk turps?
Absolutely. It had that fades. Was it enjoyable to smoke? Sure, right? I
Don't think it held a candle to the dog the D
Some of the cush is a lot of the modern cuts right now that we would consider to be elite
You know, yeah, you would consider it to have
Moderate potency at best. Yes, you know it wasn't it, you know, I mean, you know various cuts have various
Qualities and yeah and other things and you know, and so it didn't check all the boxes
Yeah, was it a great cut sure was it worth having yes
Was it a pain in the ass to grow at times? Yes, you know in your room
Yes, think about but you know, and you know, I mean in I
Think you know, I mean obviously
You know all of
Chem dogs early breedings were all accidental
Mm-hmm, right? Yeah, you know as far as we know, that's the correct. Yeah, but he was well
Nobody was reversing back then. No, he's fucking Christ, right? And yeah, Noah's making fancy bumper
Beats back then and so you only you know, so, you know, the only way you're crossing two female cuts is
Accidental. Yes, you know and those accidents, you know, they led to some of the best weed ever
Yeah, you know
In many people's opinion and you know, I mean that's that's like a whole nother
Thing that steps, you know
maybe it steps on toes or doesn't to talk about all those kind of theories about various things, but
I have not seen the real super skunk
Since I I lost it
Which has been you know
Quite a while at this point. Yeah, we've been hunting it for a long time
You know, I I don't think it exists, you know, yeah
There there's always the possibility there are still pockets in America where
You know people aren't really connected. They're not on the internet. They're not dialed in to like the scene so to speak
So yeah, I mean obviously just like we know right so to jump on a European trip
Everybody thought the a5 to was lost for well over a decade. Yeah, right
Yeah, yeah
Nobody could find it and then karma found a guy that was holding on to this cut for Neville
Mm-hmm Neville told him not to tell anybody and it was the a5 to
Yeah, and karma wasn't even sure what he had right so we had to give it to Yosemite
Who he grew with Neville forever to grow it out and confirm it was it
So it's possible, right?
Absolutely possible I think we are all desperately hoping that happens to know
Yeah, it's possible that that could exist because the a5 was lost
For a long time. I mean it's a short period of time that it was lost
I mean, I I think it's I think it got lost in the Switzerland raids
When they shut down shanty and those different yeah and stuff and it got lost in Holland during the bust eras and
Then it was lost for you know, 10 12
14 years
Something like that until it just popped up in the last few
last few and now
Losing friends fast over it. Everybody's fucking arguing over it real fast
I mean, yeah, it's cool that we work that people are still fighting over over cannabis made in the late 80s. I know
Do how good it is and it's you know, it's also not only as a testament to how good it is
But like people want to make money off it to some some people so if you've got rare and and you've got rare access
And you can bring some things, you know, you're you're you're a breeder who operates in the market
so if you've got something nobody else does and
You can hype it and it's worthy and you can you know, I mean that's what all these super scum people are trying to do
Right, right
Jeff is going on. Yeah make they're trying to make a bunch of money before people realize they don't have what they have
Correct and that's that's the jam
You know a lot of people want to sell seeds or pass cuts or do this and that and you've got a good
At minimum four months three months before you're gonna get any kind of pushback now
The other problem is that I've noticed when people either invest in buying that cut or they've invested
Emotionally in that cut at that point now, they think they've got a really rare cut that's gonna you know
Bring some kind of value to their life. However, they see fit and
They're now in that mindset where this is it if it's not it I don't have
Whatever agenda purpose that I have like I was saying with the Trinity people would get butthurt at me
sometimes when I would be like politely it's not it and
they would get a whole thing and you don't know what I traded to get it and
Da-da-da-da-da-da-da and I'd be like, well, you know, I'm sorry about all that like I have nothing to do with any of that
But yeah remains to be seen. It's still not it. It it just isn't it?
You know, yeah, and so, you know, it's gotten to a point where there's a narrow group of people who had
super skunk it
You know and some of them had longer relationships with it than others
Mm-hmm. And so some of them are a little bit better at identifying than others
Yes, exactly
You know, yeah without
Naming names or stepping on toes or doing anything like that, you know
We've had issues in the past in the community with people that you know are you know, well thought of or respected that verify
Yes, and once it's verified
Right. Well, that's all that's all she wrote. That's it. It's verified, you know, and then you know, I you know
I hit up, you know skunk bar or something and I'll be like what about that verified cut?
It isn't it I don't know if they ever had it if they think that's it
Yes, right
And so, you know, like if he tells me if he hits me up and he tells me I think I found it
I'm gonna get excited
Yeah, absolutely
Because he's I I tend to think him above everyone else is gonna know that cut really really intimately
Being that it came from his mentor and he worked with it for so long
I mean, you know the the fact the fact remains is that him our buddy
Myself we cropped it quite a bit for yeah for years
So you do that?
You do crop after crop after crop for that a bit you run anything for a number of years as your as your main squeeze
You know you learn a lot about it
Absolutely when my buddy and I were I mean, that's the thing too. And you know, we've talked about this before is that
since we bred with it a bunch I
Got to see you know, that's one of the things that I really respect about, you know, say like
CSI or
Archive who I see on here, you know
Where there's only so many breeders out there right now that actually test their own gear
So yeah, that's your own gear. You don't really know what?
You don't really know what traits your clones pass. Yeah, you're never gonna see it firsthand
Never you don't see what how they breed. Did they breed clean? Do they breed a mess?
Do they throw consistent phenotypes do they you know growing a bunch of growing a bunch of
Oh man
So but
Yeah, you know but so we grew us, you know buddy from Staten Island and myself we grew out hundreds of
you know dog and skunk and
Other various skunk hybrids, you know, and and we saw what it passed
You know, you see what it throws out, you know, and so a lot of the the various like
Semi-proven semi unproven theories I have about certain things. We've talked about a bunch are you on my observation of like not very many people
Like the had both parents. Yeah gunk va my buddy myself
We're like literally in like a handful of people
That probably had both
Yeah, and we're familiar with both. Yes, and all that and so
You know, I
mean
You know
The the skunk definitely seemed to be connected to Hermes
Yes, the you know when we were doing the the super dog stuff if we bred away from the Hermes
We bred away from some of the stuff we liked
So then the trick was to try to find like a minimal or acceptable amount of Hermes. Yeah
Okay, like say take the chem D for instance, yes can be Hermes like crazy
At times if it gets a little test, especially in depth sure
You know not as much as indoor but in depth certainly or if it gets a little stressed sure live home
Yeah, it's not it's not it's sterile. It throws bananas, but there's not really live pollen in those bananas, you know
So then you're looking for you're looking for you know, one throws Hermes and has the stink but doesn't have the danger
inherent in
In all that, you know, yeah
It was a long and an expensive breeding project
Because back then, you know, obviously herb went for a lot more and it was a lot riskier
So anytime you dedicated rooms or areas to constant breeding that could have been just some kind of production run
And then you're not even selling the beans. They're just for you and your friends
you know, but
But you know, we had we always had dual stuff like we always had this goal of trying to like, you know
Improve the gene pool a little bit, you know
create more weed that we liked and
So now it's like most most people's breeding is like take two famous things that people want
Mash them together and then sell the name
Yeah, right where it's like the name we were like
okay, like we like the skunk smell and we like the color and we like the
you know the quickness and all that can we marry that to the dogs potency and
Feeling and warm happy buzz and all that is there some hybrid that we can create that
Marries those two things together
Sure
and so that's obviously the classic way to breed is you look at two different things and you're like I want traits from this and
Traits from this to end up in its progeny. Yeah, right
you know and so that's that's really the gig so
You know it
You know sadly it seems like a bunch of the stuff that got passed it got passed around in Massachusetts quite a bit more
But it seems like from what we've been able to determine that it
Maybe it the actual cut itself
Wasn't passed around nearly as much as people think maybe in one maybe bag seed maybe
Something different got passed out and it got called super skunk and it was from said, dude
Mm-hmm. So of course it's it and then you're off to the races and then that thing gets spread around and then the more
You know, I mean we talked about this before too, but like, you know rez calling his fucking line sour diesel
Yes
Because anything up a named cut and then makes a fucking line out of it
Finding the actual named cut once there's a whole bunch of of
You know, yeah other stuff out there that has the same name is
Problematic. Yeah, and it became damn near impossible in some cases with that, you know, and you know
and so I mean
you know the I
Think the super skunk has a semi there's obviously there's some pretty famous people in the weed community that had it
So that ends like some gravitas to the fact that it was killer and then they was killer
and then it comes from this 90s historical era, obviously, right and
You know and then on top of that it probably is in a bunch of other things that people don't realize it's in
Right, correct, and everybody knows what a rank skunk smells like everybody in America for the most part is probably in America
Yeah once you know and all and so it's a really distinctive turf
Yeah, right and it doesn't expire. It does not you know
I mean some people on here know some people don't but I got lucky enough and I cracked them and what became known as
the Mendo P, you know and
What's interesting about that cut is that like if that cut didn't exist?
There's no other line that I know of that has those turps
Yeah, like those turps are in cannabis, obviously
Yeah, they're obviously in cannabis but it's very unique the modern cannabis and
Anything you find that ends up smelling like that you discover it was descended from that. Yeah, right and so, you know
You know the the skunk knows in my opinion
Really only pops out here and there in its descendants on occasion
Yes, the Mendo perps. Yes Mendo purple indeed
So
You know and so it just doesn't even it it
Nobody's found it. Nobody's nobody's made the turps. Nobody's found the turps. Nobody's been able to produce seed lines or cuttings
Anytime because if they did it would be announced they would be it's they would be at
Conventions or you know emerald cup or whatever with jars and they would be you know, it's a lost turf that people want back
Anyone who can capture that that I all turp into a seed line that
Reliably produces it and and let it stay in the bud form is
It's gonna master it, you know, so so it's obviously a lot of constituents of it
But man trying to get something that really hangs with that smell past flower is very very hard to do
Yeah, and and you know, and so everybody it's got universal recognition of what it should smell like
Yes, there's a whole bunch of fake cuts that people try to pretend smell like it
Right. Yeah, it really did smell like it
You know and so with it, there's no faking the funk
unless you have
skunk
oil
You can rub it on a jar. I mean, yeah, I know and all that and all that
It's like it's like the scientific method right like if somebody can't grow it and produce the same smell it's not there
Yeah, exactly. It wasn't like you had to do a bomber job of growing it dude, you know
I mean, you know obviously in the 90s we've all gotten quite a bit better at gardening. Oh, yeah
Yeah older you get more experienced you learn more. There's way cooler products that make your life easier, you know
And I mean we used to mix soil in a fucking cement mixer
Yeah from raw amendments. Yeah. Yeah all these biological amendments
There wasn't all these like, you know inoculants and yeah booze and teas and this and that like there is now
It was like there's like GH and you know earth juice
And I mean that even just the stuff that you could get and like you were and you were just happy that the store carried
Yeah, sure pretty limited compared to now, you know
And so that turf just it just existed you grew it you grew it
Someone's saying about the Mendo perps it is not from the Pacific West. No
Think about that question for a second. Think about that question
Is Mendo perps from the PNW mean, you know, it's too it's cool, dude
Whoever asked that any question is no he's turpentine school, you know
Yeah, and it really let them down to it like most that's the thing right is that?
just so you know, like, you know, Matt and I are gonna do a we're gonna we're gonna do a
podcast pretty soon here and
chat about history and
Really what it boils down to for me is like without the I don't really give a shit about fame or rep or anything like
That most of our history in the cannabis community is oral
You know passed down from people to people and there are people that have heard the real deal and have verified and cross-verified
Type stuff, you know
But it can be really hard for people to come along later or don't have personal connection to something
I mean bullshit spreads like wildfire at times, you know and certain people have vested interests in
Spreading bullshit and so, you know counteracting that with truth
And you know, so
Yeah, you know it really is it is it's an underground it was an underground illegal venture and
lots of little individual groups
You know like passing on knowledge to each other, you know
And it just so happens that you know, like the Grateful Dead
And the kids that follow the Grateful Dead
That was probably like the greatest open-air weed market in American history at a certain point
Oh, yeah
Yeah to them after Jerry died started growing weed because it kept the lifestyle going and for a while now
It's not it's not true anymore, you know, we're just a segment but for a minute, you know in the 90s and mid 2000s
Like almost all the best and most famous cuts came from some hippie or another
Some crew, you know some yeah bladed group and you're only so far removed from all those people because it's a small world so
You know
it
You know
Most of this stuff. I just got lucky in the sense that you know
I mean you have no idea what's gonna be famous or not all the way down
We're doing like, you know, the dog didn't get famous until
skunk VA decided to get on forums and
Start chatting about it. Sure. Nobody knew who you know, except for on the East
Nobody knew who chem dog was nobody knew P bud was nobody knew
Any of these people's names or what they were involved with or anything else, you know, sure and you know, so it's like
You know all this stuff kind of happens after the fact
You know when you're just like this kids
We're closing down on this first episode
I don't know how much time you have and I don't want to take any you got busy busy guy with all your family
But if you want we could start
Reinitiated and continue again for a minute. Yeah, I actually my family is grocery shopping right now. So I'm a perfect time. It's
All right. Well, I'm gonna end it
I'll restart the live feed and then we'll continue on to kind of like what we're seeing with Jaisal and stuff like that word
All right. See you in a few
