Welcome to Breeder's Syndicate, where we explore the history of a clandestine seed
through the eyes of the folks who live here.
I'm Matthew, owner of Riot Seeds.
I'll occasionally be joined by my co-host, Notsojaw, breeder and grower from Mendocino.
Welcome to the Underground.
All right.
So yeah, I decided, like, you know, I mean, we talk all the time.
We've been trying to figure out the whole super skunk fiasco.
Yep.
From the point of where, I guess, what, how do we want to label certain people?
Well, I mean, we can just call a skunk va skunk va.
Since everybody knows, everybody's familiar with that moniker.
Yeah, but others.
Chemdog is chemdog.
That's another familiar moniker.
And Vonmai's old buddy.
I think during the podcast, he called him his buddy from Staten Island.
Okay, let's do that.
Yeah.
And he's a private dude and kind of out of the scene at this point.
So we're just going to like not say his name out of respect and that he's he's a he's long.
You know, his part is important, but long ago.
So yes, out of respect for him, we won't.
We'll just refer to him in code.
Yeah, that's perfect.
Strangely, he's one of those rare people in the industry that is not seeking past fame.
Yeah, no, it's not.
But guys know he is actually the opposite.
Yeah.
So let's start with where do you want to start the Superstar story at?
Where should we start it at?
We'll start at the beginning.
There we go.
Okay.
So my buddy from Staten Island, him and skunk va were very good friends and they used to
travel and tour together dead tour days.
Right.
Yeah.
And in the early 90s, dude wanted to move out to the West Coast in California.
And he was more into seeing Jerry Garcia shows than he was into seeing the actual dead.
Right.
Yeah.
But Jerry would play at the Warfield basically every month.
Right.
Like a big ass hippie gathering at the Warfield, you know, and so my buddy kind of stopped
touring, moved to Sonoma County and started seeing every Jerry show there.
Right.
Obviously, Jerry shows are, you know, they're like honey to deadheads.
So, you know, so a whole bunch of deadheads would always attend the shows at the Warfield.
Right.
Correct.
So skunk va being from Virginia, right.
A lot of his old crew and mentors and various things like that were East Coast.
Right.
Yeah.
So one time some of these guys came out and from the East Coast and they were partying
with all those guys at the Warfield.
Okay.
Okay.
So skunk va and I's mutual friend used to have this strain called the Francine.
All right.
And it was about Francine a little offset.
But tell us about Francine a little bit.
Francine is a mystery indica that we didn't use the term at the time, but it was about
as terpy as terpy gets.
Yeah.
Eventually dude dropped it because like a lot of Afghans, it had a horrific mold problem.
Yeah.
As you know, you know, when you, uh, when you grow things that horrifically look beautiful
and horrifically mold at times, it's very depressing harvest time.
Oh yeah.
Happened to you a few times with a cut and you can get PTSD and decide to drop it, you
know, like, uh, get people get emotional about it.
So what does she smell like?
You know, it, it was a really good combination of like that, like that Afghan kind of acrid
funk, but with, with like a fruity aspect, but not like the tropical sativa kind of fruit.
It just had like a really deep, like, like foot funk fruit kind of flavor to it, I think.
Oh wow.
So anyway, so these dudes loved it.
Yeah.
And, uh, um, they loved it so much.
They were willing to trade this skunk that they had for it.
Okay.
So separately to all this story and a skunk vase kind of talked about this extensively
on his, on his podcast.
So I'll just briefly touch on it.
But Kemp dog, Kemp dog wouldn't give out the dog, which is what we call it to anyone, right?
He held it for tight.
He didn't want anybody in his circle getting it.
He didn't want to get cut off, you know, um, or have other people sell it.
But when homie moved to California, he agreed, look, I'll give it to you if you just don't
ever share it with anybody back East.
Yeah.
Right.
Yeah.
Don't want to compete markets.
Totally.
Totally makes sense.
Don't share it.
So basically what happened is that skunk vase arranged with his buddies to trade the Francine
for the skunk.
Okay.
Yeah.
Dude decided to make a double trip where he would bring the Francine out to Virginia and
he would trade it for the skunk and then he would drive up to Massachusetts and he would
get the Kemp dog that was promised to him.
Right.
Dude, that's committed.
That is committed.
In 1993, a homie drove across a bunch of shady ass States with plants.
You know, not very many and small, but still, you know, still, yeah.
Fancy if he got pulled over, he probably would have to eat them, you know, or something.
You got to go.
Yeah.
And you have their state checkpoints.
You got to do all kinds of, you know, this was actually pre pre, uh, to use a term we
joke about most of the highway 80 drug checkpoints and stuff like that.
Yeah.
This was in 93.
So they really hadn't gotten wise to that too much.
Oh, good.
If you took the middle route, uh, you, you were pretty much safe for the most part.
I mean, you could still get pulled over, you know, and he definitely looked like a hippie.
I bet.
Like he wasn't secret sauce or anything like that.
He didn't look like a young Republican or anything.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And so, so he drives out to Virginia and, uh, and meets, um, what we just learned actually
recently ended up being dudes actual worker because the dude had already kind of gone
on the run for a bit and was weaving.
And so he gets this, this super skunk cut.
Okay.
And I want to interject as far as we know, the person we're referring to, I'm not by
name the Staten Island guy.
Um, that as far as we know, this is scumpy as mentor.
So this is how close we can put scumpy age to the beginning of this cut.
As far as we know, the guy that agreed to do it is the mentor, but apparently the guy
that actually did the trade is one of his workers.
Exactly.
Um, but I asked when all this confusion came up a few years ago, I re I asked Staten Island,
um, do you remember the exchange well enough to be absolutely sure what did he call it?
Yeah.
If you fast forward to like when I became friends with these guys in the late nineties,
it was always called super skunk, right?
Yes.
So Staten Island, uh, he gets, you know, he told me that straight up dude said, this is
a super skunk cut.
Okay.
So he gets it straight forward.
Yeah.
So he trades, he gets it.
Then he drives to Massachusetts.
Okay.
And he meets up with chem dog and he gets the 91.
We all call it the dog, but you know, everybody on the internet calls it skunk, fog cut or
91 or whatever.
So, um, but everybody back then it was just the dog.
A bunch of these dudes were organic growers and so he was chem dog.
They didn't want to put him on it.
Yeah.
My buddy, they weren't super into calling it chem dog because they grew fully organic.
So, um, so we just, and amongst all of us long before it got famous or anything like
that, that's just kind of the shorthand, you know, I've been writing that on labels now
for two decades.
Right.
So, so he got an extra cut or two of this super skunk.
Okay.
Okay.
And he gave one to chem dog.
Okay.
Okay.
So that's, so chem dog got it basically by accident.
Yeah.
He got it by proxy.
Just like by accident, by proxy.
He got it because homie decided to go to Virginia before Massachusetts.
That's crazy.
What a, what a wild, he could have reversed it and gone.
He went to Massachusetts, Virginia home, but he went Virginia, Massachusetts home.
That's changed a lot.
That act, that choice, in my opinion, I mean, we've talked about this a bunch or whatever
that ended up leading to a whole series of accidental events that became super important.
Right.
Correct.
Yeah.
Um, you know, so then he drives back home, right.
Yep.
Now he's got super skunk in the dock.
Okay.
And if you went to Warfield shows in San Francisco to see Jerry band, you probably could have
seen him slinging all that in front of the show every single month.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Um, so skunkfah took a different tact and he could speak to this for himself, but he
kept touring basically.
Right.
So when Jerry died in August, uh, this next week here, we call this the days between because
Jerry's birthday is on the 1st of August and his, his death is on the, is in a week now
or something like that.
And so these are like Easter for hippies.
Yeah.
It's sort of like the, yeah, it's the, it's the Easter week or whatever.
So, uh, you know, skunkfah decided to settle down after Jerry passes.
Right.
And that's when he started growing.
No, because obviously to grow, you have to be semi-stable.
It's not really a dramatic lifestyle.
Right.
So, um, so those pictures that he's been posting of Polaroids and everything like that, or
after our buddy gave him the cut from his friends in Virginia and he started growing
it.
Yes.
Right.
Yep.
Um, so that's basically how, that's basically how this, this cut from Virginia made its
way to Sonoma County, the Bay and Massachusetts.
And see, and then this is a great intro to, to the chem dogs story as well, which we will
cover in our podcast, which will eventually be here soon.
Soon.
So, so that's the start of, that's the start of the super skunk movie.
Um, you know, I, uh, I met, uh, I didn't know them then personally, uh, a couple of years
after that.
Um, and, uh, my, you know, my, uh, my buddy, uh, he fell in love with the Mendo P. Yeah.
A couple other things or whatever.
And so he ended up giving me the super skunk and the dog for safekeeping, you know?
And uh, that's in the late nineties and that's kind of how I got it.
And you've had it at, well, like not the super skunk, but the chem 91 and it stayed with
you ever since.
Yep.
I've had that since I never lost it.
So, uh, unfortunately the super skunk was lost.
Uh, but we'll get to that.
Um, okay.
So, you know, so we have this stuff, right.
And uh, you know, this is obviously, um, what is it?
You know, so late nineties, 2000, 2001, this whole little era right then.
So you've got like, the internet is in, it's like infancy essentially, right.
Overgrow had just began in 98.
Yeah.
So there really wasn't any internet fame.
Yeah.
Right.
All these things that have become super famous and like Holy Grails and all these people
trying to figure out stuff.
Right.
Uh, most of the stories that I believe that I've heard about this stuff comes from that
era.
Yeah.
Because that was when there was nobody gave a shit in the sense that there was no reason
to bull about any of it.
There was no fame associated with it.
There was no rap.
There was no, I mean, it was literally like there was like four people in California who
had it.
Yeah, exactly.
There was me, Skunk Ba, our buddy and uh, uh, I see collective.
Yes.
I see collective.
Yes.
Right.
Who was really close friends with Skunk Ba, you know, and, and Greg and that, and he,
and he ended up like moving in with Skunk Ba and that's how he got the cut.
So there was literally like four of us.
Yeah.
So not very big.
And it's not like back then you had enormous rooms or anything like that, you know?
Yeah.
There really wasn't very much of it even being produced.
Yeah.
You're blowing it up with the four lighter, essentially.
You're blowing it up.
Mostly, mostly eight, 12 lighters.
Oh, okay.
So you guys were slinging hard.
12 lighters or whatever, but yeah.
But yeah, you know, and so, uh, so just to keep it back on the super skunk tip, um, you
know, uh, obviously it's been quite a long time.
Um, but here, here's what I know for sure.
Um, it was, uh, I never ever heard it called anything but super skunk.
Um, you know, obviously we've had some debate amongst friends.
Oh, sure.
There's a whole different thing we can get into later about whatever, about some different
names and stuff.
And yeah, it may or may not be the exact same thing through different crews or whatever.
But as far as, as far as my little group goes, um, that's what it was always called.
Right?
Straight super skunk.
And so a buddy from Staten Island, okay.
He would love like when we'd have trimmers over, you could pull side branches of that
thing and you could hold it up to the, the picture in the catalog of the 90 seed bank.
Right.
Then it was like a dead ringer.
Yeah.
You would, you could find buds on the plants that like match that look exactly.
Yeah.
It was very, very uniform.
I've witnessed him dozens of times over multiple crops, right.
Just cause he was just so cool because it's like exactly like the picture in the catalog.
Yeah.
And he could show you, Hey, this really is super skunk you're buying.
You know?
And so, uh, you know, in a lot of ways, you know, it was a sketchy plant.
Um, that was, you know, that was the very beginning of the two 15 era.
Right.
Um, but it wasn't really, you know, two 15 had like multiple eras, right?
The first five or six, two 15, like the cops, the courts, everything, it was still pretty
much underground.
Yeah.
Yeah.
People hadn't grown to like, let's have a greenhouse outside my back door.
Yeah.
None of that drilling, uh, indoor was still sketchy.
It was still not the jam, you know?
Yeah.
So, um, so the super skunk, you know, the last two or three weeks, it literally people
joke about carbon filter killer.
Right.
Yeah.
It was the only strain I've ever grown that, um, absolutely defeated every opportunity
I ever had to win.
I don't even know any other way to describe it.
The amount of burn it would give me, like I would pull up with two weeks to go in front
of my house in summer and it would smell like a dead skunk in my driveway.
Yeah.
I know the feeling, not with dead skunks, but yeah.
Every direction.
And so, you know, back then you're just like, Oh my God, you know, that is nerve wracking.
And so at which I had, obviously people know on this, on this thing, what scrubbers are.
I had a CO2 scrubber with a fan scrubbing the room.
I had a carbon filter, sorry, not CO2.
I had a carbon filter, right?
Yeah.
And, um, so that's scrubbing the room.
And then I had a carbon filter on the exhaust and then I had one of those huge UV on air
double, um, you know, uh, ozone generators even did the recommended 25 or 30 feet of
tubing before it went out the building to make sure it had time to mix.
Yeah.
And it's still smelled like I was slaughtering skunks in my backyard.
I mean, that's kind of how it was, you know?
So, uh, it was trippy in that regard.
Um, and you know, it, it was, it was, I don't know, it looked dense.
Even when it looked dense, it was still, it still weighed light.
Yeah.
It was one of those things where like you, you know, you put a nug on there and you're
like, Oh, this is going to be impressive.
And you're like, Oh no, it's hollow.
How does it make hollow weed?
It was like solid, but it was fluffy.
It's like almost like ice cream or something that had a bunch of air whipped into it, you
know?
And, uh, um, you know, and the terp, the weird thing about the terp is that it was super
volatile in my opinion.
It didn't really stink until the last bit and then it was a skunk for about a month
or five weeks after you cut it.
Yeah.
Honestly, if you let super skunk go too long in your jar or whatever, it would end up eventually
kind of smelling semi to generic green butter.
Oh yeah.
So yeah, that makes sense.
It would go from like, I could crack a jar in the other room and someone would walk in
and ask me what was going on.
You would have to like crunch the shit out of it and deeply smell to try to get a whiff.
Yeah, that makes sense.
But fresh, it reeked.
Yeah.
Um, you know, and you know, it was kind of hard to trim.
It was, it could be sparse, you know, when it didn't, uh, you know, I mean for most people,
um, the, probably the easiest way to think about it is, uh, you know, real old school
sour has a lot of similarities to it.
Yes.
You know, so when sour doesn't want to come out the right way, it's a bitch to trim, you
know, like people lose heart, people start, you know, your, your, your crew gets disheartened.
Oh my God, I got to trim diesel, you know?
Yeah.
Right.
Now I posted some stuff for you the other night that I sent you where like my old sour
diesel cutting, it looks like those tops, those colas, they really, you can see those
same super skunk tops that skunk off posts.
You can really see the similarity in it, you know?
Um, so the other thing that, that, uh, so it had unbelievable turps.
I mean, when people talk about RKS turps or whatever else, it was the turpiest skunkiest
rankest thing imaginable, you know?
Uh, it really was.
Um, and uh, you know, it also, you know, uh, it also harmed like a motherfucker.
Yeah.
That's like really the first thing I ever heard about mass super when I first started
getting into the scene and learning the history and stuff that that shit was a herm bomb.
It was a herm bomb.
It could harm.
Um, you know, we would pull it about eight weeks.
Sometimes you would, um, you know, you would try to take it longer cause you think maybe
it needed to be done more and then would harm for sure.
Yeah.
But the other thing is, and this is kind of weird about it, is that it harmed early too.
Because well, as a breeder, right?
You pull, if you, let's say you pull the super skunk at 58 days and you find tiger strike
beans in it.
Yeah.
When were those beans made?
Yeah.
You know, they're early on primordial.
They had to be early on because it takes a good four to six weeks.
Yes.
To mature it.
To like fully mature and get that dark tiger striping that looks all healthy and stuff,
you know?
Sure.
Um, so you pull a strain at 58 days just by the law of how beans grow.
Yeah.
Had to pot, you know, it's something bad, bad had to happen at three weeks.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But that, that in my opinion, you know, and there's a certain amount of, you know, we
can get to opinions about it, but that factor created a whole bunch of weed that we like.
Yeah, it did.
That's the crazy part.
Craziest part about all of it.
Through live herms.
Yeah.
And so, okay.
So, you know, in the, in the, uh, you know, uh, the, the buddy from Staten Island, right?
He was not very into sharing.
Yeah.
You know, um, I, uh, you know, when I got, when I got the dog, I had to promise that
I wouldn't give it out, you know, which I didn't for forever, you know?
And I would have like, we would have like really good friends of ours that would, um,
beg me for it.
And I'd be like, you know who you have to talk to, get him to call me and say that you
can have it and I'll take cuts for you tomorrow.
Yeah.
But otherwise, like I'm not breaking my word.
Yeah, of course.
Because like, we're all good friends and he's going to know you have it.
And then that makes me look like an asshole, you know?
So no, you know, issues and it's like, well, this is the, you know, this is what I had
to do.
So he wasn't as strict about the skunk, but he kind of felt the same way, you know?
And you know, me, like I try to be as like, as etiquette as possible with cuts.
I don't even like to pressure people.
I'm just not into it.
Yeah.
Have their own vibe and their own energy about why they come to you or not, you know?
And so, you know, so what sucks about that is that we didn't spread it very far.
Yeah.
Right.
Like we weren't on forums or anything like that or whatever.
Um, Staten Island buddy is not weasel.
Clock glass.
No, no, no, he's not.
I'm not paying very much attention to the words at the bottom of the screen.
So it's all right.
As anything, maybe Matt can say it or repeat it again or something.
But yeah, he's totally not.
It's totally not him.
Um, so, uh, you know, so the fact there are two things, right, is obviously back then
most people are growing for profit, you know, on some level.
And so having a cut that reeks the high heaven and scares your neighbors and herms on you,
uh, you know, it made it dicey on people holding it.
Yeah.
And so, you know, we never, you know, skunk Va myself, you know, our buddy, we never really
spread it.
We weren't trading, we weren't active on the forums, you know, we weren't swapping cuts
out right and left and stuff.
And so, you know, uh, that's a, you know, that's a different discussion.
But as you know, like every time my opinion is, is like every single time a famous named
cut happened.
Yeah.
Like purple craze with Urkel and GDP, the sour, the cushions, whatever, a whole bunch
of amazing diversity just goes to shit.
Yeah.
Because people want to fill their room or their greenhouse or their whatever with something
that some guy is going to come and snap it from them.
Right?
Yeah.
They, they want the, the shit that's going to sell for the most.
So even amongst most of my close friends, I've always had a bitch of a time getting
people to back things up for me.
Yeah.
Because people want one or two plants that they're currently doing for production and
they don't hold onto a bunch of stuff that they're doing for safekeeping or heads or
whatever, you know?
Um, so it wasn't that easy for me to get it to be backed up anywhere.
Right.
It's really because, uh, you know, when it comes to, you know, production and stuff like
that, some broker finding seeds is fucking doom.
Um, so like, Hey, do you want to grow this thing that could potentially lightly or heavily
seed your room?
No, not at all.
Not, not really.
No.
Right.
You know?
So, you know, I mean, uh, so we all grew it.
Um, and sorry, sorry.
I just had to boot someone.
I didn't want to, but he was being a jackass and being real rude.
So, oh, I, I have no, I wasn't even paying attention.
It's all good.
It's that good.
Um, so I don't know.
I mean, that's kind of the start of the, of the, of the, of the, of the, of the, of the
the, of the, of the, of the, of the, of the, of the, of the, of the, of the, of the, of
the, of the super skunk, uh, you know, thing.
It stayed with our little crew, um, yeah.
You know.
And, um, you know, the Massachusetts side of things and Greg and all that other stuff
Or chem dog one second miss onyx. I'm being real fucking serious. You're being fucking disrespectful as fucking
I'm gonna fuck you up if you keep it up knock it the fuck off. That's respect. I've been real fucking cool to you
Okay, cool
So I don't know I mean so you know I don't know
I have no idea like you know what happened with chem dog in Massachusetts
You know who when how he shared what with you know all that type of stuff
You know as far as this as far as the actual super skunk cut goes yeah
You know but it's one of those things were like
You know nobody wanted it until it became
Sort of this legendary famous thing and then everybody started poking around trying to figure out who might have kept it you know
so yeah
Staten Island and I
We had this thing where like two of our favorite strains were obviously the super skunk and the chem dog right yeah, and the
Super skunk had the lime green and the frost
I mean, you know from the chem duck. You know from dog dog isn't particularly gorgeous
It's not super frosty compared to the rains. It's darker cut. You know it cannibalizes its own leaves
It doesn't even always taste great, you know yeah, sometimes it can taste amazing
And I love the flavor
But like I could grow it all year long and only two crops out of five be happy with its flavor at times
Yeah, you know and why exactly?
Why why exactly that is I don't know so we had this idea
And this is long before you know I mean there was no real American seed companies or anything like that right so
We were we were doing a bunch of breeding, but we were doing a bunch of breeding that was literally for our taste buds
Like it was not for public consumption at best it was going to be grown by us and spread out
Yeah, you know we created this we created this thing over time
Staten Island started it and I came on and helped
And you know we did some work on it together that we eventually called the super dog
Which is in the can of Bible the second one I think yeah?
And that was my first that was my first experience with kind of
Really finding a strain that I wanted to hunt and right there
Even though I got along quite well with Jason who wrote it
And I gave him a bunch of accurate information a lot of that got twisted and turned
Into some of his entries about the the dog and the chem dog and the super and all that type of stuff
You know so be that as it may what we were trying to do is we were trying to
Combine the turps and the look of super skunk
With the potency and some of the density and some of the the niceness of the dog
Sure, you know and it was like a you know and so
You know and strangely
And this is another thing of why I think maybe it disappeared as we talked about this recently, too
I tend to believe that the skunk and the Herm is related
Yes, like I I can't say for certain, but I think it might be a linked trait. I and there's a lot of
Evidence for that yeah, you know and as you know
You know there's there's very few traits that people breeding have you know more prejudice against than?
Banana banana sacks with hermine um you know yeah
And so I think inadvertently
People bred away from the skunk yeah without realizing it because you know you breed some stuff
It's a hermium ass it reeks. You're like. Oh god. That's a hermium ass
I'm gonna get you know I'm not gonna breed towards that side and
The idea that you could have a linked trait where you have a very desirable trait and a not so desirable trait
together
You know
Breeder pain in the ass ever is a link trait with undesirable traits
He's like oh all the potency comes in these low yielding ones that suck
You know all these yeah a huge donkey dicks and like have the structure is incredible. They're all bland you know yep, and so
You know the problem is is that you know you have a situation
It's like it's kind of the same thing like you know like I told you about with the Trinity right where the Trinity
Spread very far and so when we lost it, and I kept trying to get it back
People would give me fakes yeah
It's not because they were dicks most of the time
But because they never had it back in the day so when they got it from someone they didn't
They had no way of knowing that it wasn't it yeah of course yeah
And so then I would have to be the bearer of bad news. You know and be like no this isn't it
Yeah, and people hate the bearer of bad news
And that's kind of what's happened with the super skunk right is that yeah?
There's obviously this desire in the community to have these these roadkill turps come back right
Everyone who finds super skunk has a current seed company and is making seeds to sold to the public
No one ever shows up
to
Events with a couple jars of fresh skunk and lets the proof be in the pudding
Yeah, right they get the cut they advertise the cut here's the cut we're breeding with the cut buy my seeds
Find the amazing turps in the cup right or they get kinks you know yeah
And so so you don't know you don't know if if they're lying
Because I don't yeah or whatever or they just have no I they just never had it in the past
You know to know that to know what skunk is yeah, but actual to what the actual skunk cut is you know
And so you know by the early to mid 2000s it had been dropped enough
that you know
Various people had lost it through you know lots of the same reasons that everybody loses cuts
fires bus
accidents
You know people not returning it
I had backed up with a couple people they refused to give it back to me at one point
And then lost it in the future, and I had some stuff happen, and I lost it
And we've been you know we've been hunting it ever since and sure
You know I mean we're both obviously friends with skunk ba
All these new school super skunk finds I
Mean what are you gonna say they just end up they end up not looking?
I mean what's awesome is that he's got these he's got these you know these pictures these Polaroids
That are undisputable
Proof that was the cut I had that is so big that he has those pictures
We're buddies. We got it from you know it came from the same place the story was the same thing you know so
You know it's it and yeah, you know it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's
You know you have all these other shorter squatter
Afghan all these other different looking you know super skunk cuts
And then the other part of it too is that you have people that like okay?
So this guy had the super skunk at once right well, then as soon as that dude verifies
Right yeah, well then all of a sudden okay?
We have it now we can trade bait it now we can get spread out now this person has the cut and
You know
And that's the problem. You know and so you know I mean before everybody who's listening holy shit
We're up to 242 people on this thing, but
Yeah, the super skunk was not a perfect cut
You know like it wasn't in my opinion. It wasn't the Holy Grail did it have crazy rare skunk turps
Absolutely it had that fades was it enjoyable to smoke sure right I?
Don't think it held a candle to the dog the D
Some of the cush is a lot of the modern cuts right now that we would consider to be elite
You know yeah, you would consider it to have
Moderate potency at best yes, you know it wasn't it. You know I mean you know various cuts have various
Qualities and yeah, and other things and you know and so it didn't check all the boxes
Yeah, was it a great cut sure was it worth having yes
Was it a pain in the ass to grow at times? Yes?
You know in your room. Yes, think about but you know in you know I mean in I
Think you know I mean obviously
You know all of
Chem dogs early breedings were all accidental
Mm-hmm right yeah, you know as far as we know that's the correct. Yeah, but he was well
Nobody was reversing back then no Jesus fucking Christ right and no is making
Beats back then and so you only you know so you know the only way you're crossing two female cuts is
Accidental yes, you know and those accidents. You know they led to some of the best weed ever
Yeah, you know yeah
In many people's opinion
And you know I mean, that's that's like a whole nother
Thing that steps you know maybe it steps on toes or doesn't to talk about all those kind of theories about various things, but
I have not seen the real super skunk
Since I I lost it
Which has been you know?
Quite a while at this point
Yeah, we've been hunting it for a long time
You know I I don't think it exists you know yeah
There there's always the possibility there are still pockets in America where
You know people aren't really connected. They're not on the internet. They're not dialed into like the scene so to speak so yeah
I mean obviously just like we know right so to jump on a European trip
Everybody thought the a5 to was lost for well over a decade yeah, right
Yeah at least yeah, nobody could find it and then karma found a guy that was holding on to this cut for Neville
Mm-hmm Neville told him not to tell anybody and it was the a5 to
Yeah, and karma wasn't even sure what he had right so we had to give it to Yosemite
Who he grew with Neville forever to grow it out and confirm it was it?
So it's possible right
Absolutely possible I think we are all desperately hoping that happens to know yeah
It's possible that that could exist because the a5 was lost
For a long time. I mean it's a short period of time that it was lost
I mean, I I think it's I think it got lost in the Switzerland raids
When they shut down shanty and those different yeah, and stuff and it got lost in Holland during the bust eras and
Then it was lost for you know 10 12
14 years
Something like that until it just popped up in the last few
last few and now
Losing friends fast over it everybody's fucking arguing over it real fast
I mean, yeah, it's cool that we work that people are still fighting over over cannabis made in the late 80s. I know
Do how good it is and it's you know it's also not only as a testament to how good it is
But like people want to make money off it to some some people so if you've got rare
And and you've got rare access and you can bring some things you know you're you're you're a breeder who operates in the market
so if you've got something nobody else does and
You can hype it and it's worthy and you can you know I mean that's what all these super scum people are trying to do right
Right exactly what's going on? Yeah, make they're trying to make a bunch of money before people realize they don't have what they have
Correct and that's that's the jam you know a lot of people want to sell seeds or
Pass cuts or do this and that and you've got a good
minimum four months three months
Before you're gonna get any kind of pushback now the other problem
Is that I've noticed when people either invest in buying that cut or they've invested
Emotionally in that cut at that point now. They think they've got a really rare cut
It's gonna. You know bring some kind of value to their life. However. They see fit and
They're now in that mindset where this is it if it's not yet. I don't have
Whatever agenda
purpose that I have like I was saying with the Trinity people would get butthurt at me sometimes when I would be like
Politely it's not it and they would get a whole thing and you don't know what I traded to get it and that
And I'd be like well, you know I'm sorry about all that like I have nothing to do with any of that
But yeah remains to be seen it's still not it it. It just isn't it you know yeah, and so you know
It's gotten to a point where there's a narrow group of people who had
super skunk it
You know and some of them had longer relationships with it than others
Mm-hmm and so some of them are a little bit better at identifying than others
Yes, exactly
You know yeah without um
Naming names or stepping on toes or doing anything like that
You know we've had issues in the past in the community with people that you know are you know well thought of or respected?
that verify
Yes, and once it's verified
Right well, that's all that's all she wrote. That's it. It's verified. You know and then you know I you know
I hit up. You know skunk bar or something, and I'll be like what about that verified cut like it
He isn't it I don't know if they ever had it if they think that's it
Yes, right and so you know like if he tells me if he hits me up, and he tells me I think I found it
I'm gonna get excited
Yeah, absolutely because he's I I tend to think him above everyone else is gonna know that cut really really intimately
Being that it came from his mentor, and he worked with it for so long
I mean you know the fact the fact remains is that him our buddy and myself we cropped it quite a bit
Yeah for years
So you do that you do crop after crop after crop for that a bit you run anything for a number of years is your
Is your main squeeze you know you learn a lot about it?
Absolutely when my buddy, and I were I mean that's the thing too, and you know we've talked about this before is that?
since we bred with it a bunch I
Got to see you know that's one of the things that I really respect about you know say like
CSI or
Archive who I see on here. You know
Where there's only so many breeders out there right now that actually test their own gear
Sure, so yeah, that's your own gear. You don't really know what?
You don't really know what traits your clones pass. Yeah, you're never gonna see it firsthand
You don't see what how they breed did they breed clean did they breed a mess did they throw consistent phenotypes today?
You know growing a bunch of growing a bunch of
Oh man
So but
Yeah, you know but so we grew
You know buddy from Staten Island and myself we grew out hundreds of
you know dog and skunk and other various skunk hybrids you know and
And we saw what it passed
You know you see what it throws out
You know and so a lot of the the various like semi proven semi unproven
Theories I have about certain things we've talked about a bunch
On my observation of like not very many people like the had both parents
Yeah, gunk bah my buddy myself. We're like literally in like a handful of people
That probably had both
Yeah, and we're familiar with both. Yes, and all that and so
You know I
mean
you know
The the skunk definitely seemed to be connected to herms
Yes, the you know when we were doing the the super dog stuff if we bred away from the herms
We bred away from some of the stuff we liked
So then the trick was to try to find like a minimal or acceptable amount of herms. Yeah
Okay like say take the chem D for instance yes, can be herms like crazy
At times if it gets a little test especially in depth sure you know not as much as indoor
But in depth certainly or if it gets a little stressed sure live home
Yeah, it's not it's not it's sterile it throws bananas, but there's not really live pollen in those bananas. You know
So then you're looking for you're looking for you know one throws herms and has the stink, but doesn't have the danger
inherent in
In all that you know yeah
It was a long and expensive breeding project
Because back then you know obviously herb went for a lot more, and it was a lot riskier
So anytime you dedicated rooms or areas to constant breeding that could have been just some kind of production run
And then you're not even selling the beans. They're just for you and your friends
you know but
But you know we had we always had dual stuff like we always had this goal of trying to like you know
Improve the gene pool a little bit. You know create more weed that we liked and
So now it's like most most people's breeding is like take two famous things that people want
Mash them together and then sell the name
Yeah, right where it's like the name
We were like okay like we like the skunk smell and we like the color and we like the
But you know the quickness and all that can we marry that to the dogs potency and
Feeling and warm happy buzz and all that is there some hybrid that we can create that
Marries those two things together
Sure, and so that's obviously the classic way to breed as you look at two different things
And you're like I want traits from this and traits from this to end up in its progeny. Yeah, right
you know and so that's that's really the gig so
You know it
You know sadly it seems like a bunch of the stuff that got passed it got passed around in Massachusetts quite a bit more
But it seems like from what we've been able to determine that it
Maybe it the actual cut itself
Wasn't passed around nearly as much as people think maybe in one maybe bag seed maybe
Something different got passed out and it got called super skunk and it was from said dude
Mm-hmm so of course it's it and then you're off to the races and then that thing gets spread around and then the more
You know I mean we talked about this before too, but like you know rez calling his fucking line sour diesel
Yes
Because anything up a named cut and then makes a fucking line out of it
Finding the actual named cut once there's a whole bunch of
You know yeah other stuff out there that has the same name is
Problematic yeah, and it became damn near impossible in some cases with that you know and you know and so I mean
you know the I
Think the super skunk has a semi. There's obviously there's some pretty famous people in the weed community that had it
So that ends like some gravitas to the fact that it was killer
And then they was killer, and then it comes from this 90s historical era obviously right and
You know and then on top of that it probably is in a bunch of other things that people don't realize it's in
Right correct and everybody knows what a rank skunk smells like everybody in America for the most part is probably in America
Yeah, once you know and all and so it's a really distinctive turk
Yeah, right, and it doesn't expire it does not you know I mean some people on here
No some people don't but I got lucky enough, and I cracked them in what became known as the Mendo P
You know and what's interesting about that cut is that?
Like if that cut didn't exist. There's no other
Line that I know of that has those turks
Yeah, like those turks are in cannabis obviously yeah, they're obviously in cannabis
The modern cannabis and anything you find that ends up smelling like that you discover it was descended from that
Yeah, right and so you know
You know the the skunk knows in my opinion
Really only pops out here and there in its descendants on occasion
Yes, the Mendo perps yes Mendo purple indeed
so
You know and so it just doesn't even it
Nobody's found it nobody's nobody's made the turps nobody's found the turps nobody's been able to produce seed lines or cuttings
Anytime because if they did it would be announced they would be it's they would be at
Conventions or you know emerald cup or whatever with jars, and they would be you know it's a lost turf that people want back
Anyone who can capture that that I all turp into?
Seed line that really produces it and and let it stay in the bud form is
Gonna master it you know so so it's obviously a lot of constituents of it
But man trying to get something that really hangs with that smell past flower is very very hard to do
Yeah, and and you know and so everybody it's got universal recognition of what it should smell like
Yes, there's a whole bunch of fake cuts that people try to pretend smell like it
Right yeah, it really did smell like it
You know and so with it. There's no faking the funk
unless you have
skunk oil
You can rub it on a jar. I mean yeah, and all in all that in all that
It's like it's like the scientific method right like if somebody can't grow it and produce the same smell
It's not there
Yeah, exactly it wasn't like you had to do a bomber job of growing it, dude
You know I mean you know obviously in the 90s. We've all gotten quite a bit better at gardening. Oh, yeah
Yeah, older you get more experienced you learn more. There's way cooler products that make your life easier
You know
And I mean we used to mix soil in a fucking cement mixer
Yeah from raw amendments yeah, yeah, well all these biological amendments there wasn't all these like you know inoculants
And yeah booze and teas and this and that like there is now
It was like it was like GH
And you know earth juice
And I mean that even just the stuff that you could get and like you were and you were just happy that the store carried
Yeah, sure pretty limited compared to now you know
And so that terp just it just existed you grew it you grew it
Someone's saying about the Mendo perps it is not from the Pacific West no
Think about that question for a second think about that question
Is Mendo perps from the PNW mean you know it's too. It's cool. Dude any quick whoever asked that any question is no
He's Turpin birds cool. Yeah, and it really let them down to it like most
That's the thing right is that
just so you know like you know Matt, and I are gonna do a we're gonna we're gonna do a
podcast pretty soon here and
Chat about history and really what it boils down to for me is like without the I don't really give a shit about fame or rep
Or anything like that
Most of our history in the cannabis community is oral
You know passed down from people to people and there are people that have heard the real deal and have verified and cross-verified
Type stuff you know
But it can be really hard for people to come along later, or don't have personal connection to something
I mean bullshit spreads like wildfire at times
You know and certain people have vested interests in in spreading bullshit
And so you know counteracting that with truth
and
You know so
But yeah, you know it really is it is it's an underground it was an underground illegal venture and
lots of little individual groups
You know like passing on knowledge to each other you know and it just so happens that you know like the Grateful Dead
And the kids that follow the Grateful Dead
That was probably like the greatest open-air weed market in American history at a certain point
Oh, yeah, yeah to them after Jerry died started growing weed because it kept the lifestyle going and for a while now
It's not it's not true anymore. You know we're just a segment, but for a minute
You know in the 90s and mid-2000s like almost all the best and most famous cuts
Came from some hippie or another some crew you know some yeah
Related group, and you're only so far removed from all those people because it's a small world so
You know
It
You know
Most of this stuff. I just got lucky in the sense that you know I mean you have no idea
What's gonna be famous or not all the way down?
We're doing like you know the dog didn't get famous until
skunk VA decided to get on forums and
Start chatting about it sure nobody knew who you know except for on the East nobody knew who chemdog was nobody knew
P bud was nobody knew any of these people's names or what they were involved with or anything else you know sure and
You know so it's like
You know all this stuff kind of happens after the fact
You know when you're just like this kids want more breeder syndicate be sure to check out our patreon by going to google and searching
Breeder syndicate patreon we have a secret discord where we are available at most times and interact daily
There are a lot of perks to be had there so check it out
Needs seeds check out riot seeds calm where you can get our seeds and our reversal spray for making your own feminized seeds
