Choose your free seeds wisely, but every time you know, if you do this every time you're not just gonna get one packet free seeds
I'm gonna be hooking you up as the new lines come out and everything
Because that's how we do our friends that help us. You know what I mean?
So it should be done
Yeah, man that was that was some heavy heavy info and I loved it I loved it
Like I don't know that there's anyone smarter in this industry right now than Mooney
Yeah
All right
Thank You. Mr. Johnny Snipes for recording this for everyone. So now we can upload it to YouTube and have it live
And not just live but recorded post recorded pre-recorded post recorded for anyone to watch at any time
So yeah, thank you very much
See
Gee
So, yeah, I've told you guys about some of my craziness going on with my
Landlord and shit finally have all that settled everything's gonna be safe taken care of
I'm really stoked. Like I said, I have a bunch of seeded plants. Those are going out of town like with my father
And the other stuff's gonna go somewhere else the the veg stuff's gonna go somewhere else
The other stuff's gonna go somewhere else the the veg stuff so I'm really stoked that it's amazing to have such good friends
That are willing to do stuff like that for me
They're deleting cannabis channels they can suck my dick
Yeah, we're gonna be having Mooney on more often and probably DSG labs and a few others I'd like to have on and just
Man, I think people come to these live feeds because they want they want to learn
they want to learn about breeding and they want to learn about cannabis in general and you know, there are
Channels like bubble man's that talk about s extracts or hash church, you know, but
Yeah, I have to move this stuff out but
As far as breeders go, I don't think there's anyone teaching breeding. I really don't and and considering how many people call themselves breeders
You know Mike does some live feeds that are excellent
And
Of course there are breeders who are more shy about being on camera and I understand that because there are some amazing breeders but
He just got banned from YouTube for 90 days damn that sucks what's up Green Dragon
Yeah strain history
Tissue culture tech anything that has to do with breeding or it can help breeding
I want to I want to I want to be the best source of info for that for everyone
And when I bring on guys like Mooney, I'm learning with you guys, you know
Can you really teach breeding you could teach breeding basics? You could teach breeding terminology. You could teach breeding
You teach everything except the hands-on stuff really
You can't teach people how to select you can't teach people how to properly test their lines
Stuff like that. It's really hard to do either you have it or you don't either you understand the plant
You don't and you cannot teach ethics exactly bittersweet. You can't teach breeding ethics
I can try but I can't instill that in anyone
but I can teach you I
Can teach you all the basics of breeding words that you should know, you know
terminology and
I can give you advice on where to get more info to learn even further
But nothing replaces hands-on
approach to breeding and
Like I said, you know
I've been getting a lot of questions from
New up-and-coming breeders people that are new to everything and they want advice lay down Murray and they want they want advice on
What they should start doing and I gave the advice, you know
If you want to see evolution in action quick and you want to see your trait selections is done fast
practice on
Autoflowers, you know and I think a lot of people didn't get the reason why it's just because autoflowers have a quicker
germination to flower to finishing flower
Time than anything else so you can get through several crops
very very quickly
And you could do it while having your plants in 24 hours veg if you want
Yeah
But the other thing is and I and I say this from time to time learn the baselines
learn the baselines if you want to become a full and complete breeder to be able to
Recognize those baselines and other lines recognize those traits learn how to select those traits if that's the trait you want
Learn the baselines that and baselines being skunk one be familiar with multiple kinds of Afghanis
Hayes of course original Hayes
Northern lights which can also you know
Afghanis and northern lights are pretty
Pretty similar for for all intents and purposes
Most northern lights that you see are 2x5 that that's the most common or lights that you're gonna see or 5x2
I don't remember how it was written
And what else let's skunk Hayes northern lights
Afghani I know I'm forgetting a major one here
What's the major one I'm forgetting anyway learn the baselines
That's gonna help you so so much in the future for breeding and and I was lucky that my mentor taught me that I
Don't think many people teach that
Northern lights number six is quite different. That's from tight trichome technologies
What's up, mr. Cuban yeah blueberry isn't necessarily a baseline, but it's a good one to learn however
I highly recommend not running the new blueberry which is very very indica dominant. I recommend the old blueberry sativa lines
Kush is would be involved with the Afghanis and northern lights so
That kind of covers that
But just learn those baselines even Bubba Kush because Bubba Kush isn't so much different stuff people don't realize that
Once you learn those lines even super skunk would be one
Then you will hem dog is not a baseline. No not even
Um once you learn those you'll be able to identify everything on
That note what's the makeup of right Barry right Barry was just like every other fucking legendary line. It was a bag seed
Actually was a jar seed if you want to get technical was that came out of jar a jar
It was a P
PNC no no no no no
Where was I working was it called it was a
BCC beneficial care collective San Diego
I was doing I was growing in the back for them the bud that they were selling
But they would also buy bud bring it in this dude who?
He's a well-known older breeder in San Diego, and he brought in some cherry cone Kush
Which is his strain and it was really good really dank, but it didn't smell like cherries at all
So I was never sure why he called it that and then he brought in
What was labeled as strawberry cough, and I asked the owner I said, what is this because I saw it had seeds in it
He said oh, that's actually blueberry, and I smelled it and smelled like peanut butter
So I was even more confused, but that peanut butter shit was fucking dank
So I picked the seeds out of it brought him home popped him
Trying to just get phenos of that that peanut butter run it see what it's like
But out came these beautiful gorgeous purple
Blueberry syrup plants and that was that was how she was born
So it's supposed to be a blueberry. It's probably blueberry p91
I'm guessing because of the peanut oil traits, but yeah, that's the genesis of riot Perry
That's my baby one of my many babies. Oh fuck you Cuban
What a bastard talk about horses
motherfucker
genetics of blueberry muffin blueberry muffin is just a
Genetics of blueberry muffin blueberry muffin is just a phenotype or a cut is the right berry phenotype from right berry
Oh gee, which was right berry across this like the original og
Cross-to-pacistani to trolley the green pheno green lemon pheno
Anyone done a side-by-side with the dark heart release of what is their their fake blueberry muffins? Why would they do why would we do that?
We already know where their fucking bullshit came from and who did it it has no relation to mine
It's fucking retarded. It's a they're a retard
Yeah, this has no relation to mine
They just took a well-established name slapped it on their fucking new bullshit and are trying to push it as legit. I
Mean there is no comparison because it's so drastically different I
I didn't know people were calling
Sunshine daydream the blueberry muffin cut but I don't I don't think that there's any way that I
It's one of those times when I just have to realize that I
Didn't pick an original name by calling it blueberry muffin because it's just it's something that people want to slap on everything
So I just don't give a fuck anymore
About the term or any of it
I'm not sure where the Humboldt seed Co is from and not to be confused with Humboldt seed
Organization Humboldt seed Co are the ones naming lines like Jack Harrow that have nothing to do with Jack Harrow or very little to do with Jack
Harrow
They took my blueberry muffin cut slapped it on one of their lines. They've done that with a bunch of shit. They're just
All around pieces of shit, and I don't you know
No HSC not HSO
HSO or fine, they've never done anything like that
Humboldt seed company are assholes
I got blue baby shit. I do not have blueberry butthole though. I
Do need to come out of my shell don't I?
What do I think about 10k jack
Depends on which one you're asking about
There's the original 10k jack from Oregon, which was a lemon jack hair
It was very much a traditional lemon jack hair
And I mean that's one of the common phenotypes you find in Jack Harrow's the lemon jack
It wasn't massively yielding, but it was it was a solid bud
You know very very northern light dominance in the bud structure probably closer to skunk in the actual structure of the plant
Very little haze in it
But man, it's fucking it's stellar weed man, it's one of the best lemons I've ever grown there was also 10k jack which was
Named by green Dave, and it was a a Jack Harrow cut that came from Bodhi that was just called Jack hair
He called that 10k
And that is closer to say like a Jack the Ripper Chernobyl looking strain, and it's very lime I
Don't know Cuban um as long as they keep your Cuban ass out, and I think we're good
The panic piff yeah who has that I think my buddy Kaya has some panic piffed right out and shown on Instagram the original Kaya
See we got
Death by lemons, I'm not sure
The 10k from Bodhi yeah, it's it's it's very similar to Jack the Ripper in looks
But it's purple kind of like Chernobyl, and it looks like the golden ticket cut and it looks too very limey I
Don't know I don't know much about Bodhi's lines anymore. Just because like we just we're good friends, but
We both kind of keep our heads down and do our own things. You know so I don't I don't memorize all his lines
And he has a lot that he puts out so I it would just be too hard to keep track to be honest
Yeah, I'm sure it's good I
Have never seen an orange gelato strain
So I don't think all the gelato strains are orange because I've never seen an orange gelato
There might be one or two, but I I don't know about them
Oh
Things tipping there we go
Is world of seeds no they're terrible company there, they're shit they
The real seed Co is very good world of seeds not so good
One second here
Why are you puffing at me Murray?
Okay, so someone asked the difference
I wanted to make sure that I have it right someone wanted to ask the difference between strawberry roadkill and roadkill switchblade
Strawberry roadkill, okay, so strawberry switchblade
Though the main difference between the two is that strawberry switchblade incorporates the double black dojo as well in it
Which has a lot of like reddish purple traits or magenta even?
and
strawberry switchblade is
extreme extreme
strawberry
extreme
whereas the strawberry cream Afghani is
it's still very strawberry, but it's more focused on yield and
resin production whereas the the roadkill switchblade is
Is a little bit less yield but way more strawberry. It's hard to explain because they're both very strawberry
But yeah, the the switchblade will always have the double black dojo incorporated into it
Motor growth 15 you're asking me for something way later
More recently made and I don't know about it. Don't haven't used it. Don't care
Again I don't know much about Bodhi's lines guys
That have come out within the past few years. I wish I could answer it, but I just there's so many that come out
I don't it's impossible to keep track of it. I
Have my own company that I run and make seeds with that. I have a hard enough time keeping track of myself
You know what? I mean?
Real lemon tree real lemon tree is lemon diesel
Or is that right? Yeah, Oregon lemon diesel
It's just the same cut renamed
SFE
OG and cam D been done a long time ago by cat and crit
So who gives a fuck someone already did it probably did it better
Who made it is that Jimmy knits I shouldn't be mean like that because I mean the guy the guys been around a while and
I'm sure it's great. It's just it's been done before and I don't know why people just picked up on it now
It's that whole hype thing, you know if people
Were knowledgeable they'd be like, oh that's already been done and I could have already had it 90 times over
Captain Krip released those cam DSFV. I wish I could remember the name offhand, but I think it was just cam DSFE
It wasn't a name
and I know that
It's probably been done a thousand times between captain Krip and Jimmy knits
So like that's a common combination like the chems and SFE's
I would think that
It would be very similar to cam 91
You know
I've never heard of Pittsburgh cat piss, but the San Diego cat piss I'm familiar with but I think that's just one of those terms
kind of like
skunk or whatever that people use like if a
Old plant back in the day smelled like cat piss
They would call it cat piss. So there's a lot of regional cat pisses. I'm not familiar with the Pittsburgh one
Storing seeds for long-term preservation if you are gonna store seeds and not touch them for and you know
You're not gonna touch them for say 10 to 15 years or you're only you're gonna storm and you're gonna take them out the second
You want to pop them freezers? Okay for that, but you don't want to come in and out doing that shit
You know, you don't want to take it in and out of the freezer. That's not good for it
Long-term storage fridge work great or anywhere that is a cool
Dark dry environment will work realistically
There's my water Murray, do you still my fucking water
Goddamn it
Goddamn it. Goddamn it. We're you sleeping on my water motherfucker. Oh
I guess they don't have one. Okay. Come on Murray lay down lay down. Don't use this excuse to get up lay down
Bad boy
He knows I can't jump up and get him so now he's being a dick
The cut called cush for that Bodhi uses. Sorry for another bow. I don't mind Bodhi questions
I just don't know a lot about his strains
But the cush for is an old Neville strain if I remember correctly and I do believe you got it from Jim Ortega
Other than that, I don't there's not a lot of info about him. I don't know if he's a good guy
I don't know if he's a good guy. I don't know if he's a good guy. I don't know if he's a good guy
I don't know if he's a good guy. I don't know if he's a good guy
Other than that, I don't there's not a lot of info about cush for out there
But yeah, that was an old Jim Ortega line if I remember correctly
Jim Ortega I met on mr. Nice when he was using the name Douglas nice guy
But yeah, I don't it's not one that I'm I really it's not one that pops up often
It's a very rare rare rare cut. However, it's said to be
It's said to be the basis of a lot of cush lines, which I'm not sure how true that is
There's also
Some lines that I'm gonna get to look at
From the scientist, which is really cool. That's someone I know has finally gotten those packs
Very rare old shit, and I'm curious to see what's gonna be in there
I don't think a lot of people know that term, but I'll just leave it at that for right now
And I'll bring it up later when I have more info
First ever cross. Is there any specific minerals or nudes?
I should push more to help with seed production if you're feeding your plant for seeds feed it like a tomato
Feed it lots of nitrogen and veg that helps them
What about 4d I have no idea
Where does the name og originate from I
Just think it means like original. I think that's really what it means like OG could this is the old cush OG cush
That's typical it's not overgrow. It's not ocean grown any of that shit. It was just the the original og
Perhaps perhaps perhaps perhaps
What's the white and white Tahoe cookies I think it's just white Tahoe the white
What is og 18
That's a DNA strain I
You know, I think it's just white Tahoe the white
You know, I think it was from bear selection karma said they knew more about that than I do but again
I don't pay attention to fucking
lame ass faggot ass companies and I mean faggot ass and the nicest way that has nothing to do with
Homosexuality and one of those assholes that I use that word to refer to dipshits
DNA is there pieces of shit. They've always been pieces of shit. They bait and switch their lines and
That all that info is out there and if people are still buying that shit it's on them to fucking
Suck it up and realize they just bought a load of shit. That isn't what they say. It's gonna be
Overgrow cush that's right. I had crybaby watch the I
Had crybaby watch the video of Steve Tuck talking about how he helped create og cush
What do you think about the white? I see a lot of breeders using it, but I hate it personally as a flower
Okay, um, the white is an excellent breeder
however
it does take a few crop of back crossings to whatever you cross the white to in order to get rid of
That that mushroomy earthy taste and and that's not ideal. What's ideal from the white is its resin production
It's um, it's solid. It's solid structure. It's uh
It's a great plant as far as that goes, but I don't like the taste smell or high from the white
But breeding wise it's an excellent breeder and like like that this goes with all things
There are plants that are excellent growers and terrible breeders
Gorilla glue floors one. It's not predictable
You know, you're gonna see a lot of boofy phenos pop out when you cross gorilla glue for to anything however
With
With certain lines they breed better
Than grow and the white would be one
What's up, Mooney?
That's right, they'll do it Friday and we have someone recording these now so we're gonna have it up on YouTube finally
Yeah, you know people don't realize that when they're buying s1s they're not
They're not buying direct copies of the clone mother
That's not how it works unless the clone mother was picked from a line that was made very very very very stable and uniform
You know, so like a deep chunk s1 would resemble its mother very well
Whereas a grill glue for s1 you're lucky if you ever see that same phenotype again
Jack here, I like some Jack Harris, but Jack here has thousands of phenotypes
So and I definitely don't like all of them
So it's it's kind of a bold a broad statement to cover by saying yes, I like Jack here
People think that
P91 s ones they all kind of revolve around that mom, but the the it's it's weird different
You'll see less peanut oil sometimes more skunky more skunky less peanut oil
But they all tend to to kind of scale around that mom
Any thoughts on the cube or starfighter, I don't know about the cube as far as like I never I've never grown it
Starfighter same thing never grew it
But when those seeds were originally sold you could still buy the fucking parents and seed
so I didn't understand why people are paying a bunch of money for something that you could buy the parents of the seed stock for
from and
It was just an f1 hybrid. So you would see the same exact results pretty much. It would just be a wide open
Shotgun result, you know, and that's what you would see with starfighter. Anyways, I know
Mike has found a good starfighter and they use that and
But a lot of those starfighters were not very good. So yeah
Yeah, I noticed economics been pushing those glues the s1 glues pretty hard they look they look cool the ones that he's had
With right very how long did the broadly Phenus continue in the f-generation?
a
Five is when we started seeing more of the sativa dominance kick in to be true breeding
It's up chick, I'm not hungry right now I'm doing the thing
I'm doing the live feed right now
You were driving so I don't need it right now I don't have space for it
You haven't been good Marie, yeah, you just doing his own thing actually just isn't listening
Because you're driving I hate those meals
Del Taco
Yeah, once once Moody's in LA once he's living down there we're gonna we're gonna have the full-time podcast it's finally starting
I know people have been asking for it for a long time, but
You know, how long do I take skunk spray chem? It depends on the phenotype just like everything else
Different phenose go different lengths and I take it as long as it needs to go
I don't do the whole week counting thing. I just run plants until they're finished. I've never understood that
I mean, I guess it's good to try to have things planned out. But as you learn how
Seed lines go you should know that there are several different phenotypes and just giving you a number would be again a shotgun effect
I've just trying to guess at what you're gonna get
Yeah, that makes real Philly real Philly that makes sense what's up Joey how you doing brother
Did you did you see Gold Coast peepee his pants did you make him peepee his pants I hope you did
It's hard not to think of Ethan
It's hard not to think of ethos when people think of s1 glue
Fook that guy
Cook him fool come you guys a bitch
bi itch
What other questions you guys got
that aren't
Specifically about Bodhi seed lines that I have no idea about anymore because it's a you know
Like I said, and it's not any disrespect to Bodhi Bodhi's my boy. I love him
I love him to the end of the moon and back, but I just it's hard to keep track of
My own lines let alone his you know
Yeah, you know apprenticing with a good breeders gonna be a hard thing to do because a lot of the good breeders are older guys and
Paranoid of people and we've all been fucked over a lot by a lot of people especially people that we've helped our apprenticed
Yeah
Dying breed ZQ I can talk about ZQ. I actually
Can talk about ZQ
ZQ
Is okay, so the Z cubes I have grown and seen are very tall plants very lanky very leggy plants
End of the moon and it stars, but you're further. I love you further friend. It's actually further than that
It's very leggy it has hard dense buds
It has hard dense buds, but they stay about golf ball size very for very fucking resinous
however, the skittles trait with the the sweet skittles smell it's I haven't found it in any busy cubes I've ran so
I'm not sure if that was their intention with the line, but I'm thinking with the skittles lines. It's
Something that they wanted and didn't get but it is very uniform even for an f1. They were all pretty uniform as was their black rosé
No not doing any more sour grapes grape stomper I did that nine years ago released it and
To not much fanfare and then later on gauge green released the BX one and then claimed he created it because you know
And people bought it ate it up and still repeat that gauge green make grape stomper to this day
That was made by our buddy Jojo Rizzo
It's a black beard
Bring him in
But with all that said
About Z cube. I can't say it's fucking good. It's a good line. It's very good line. It's worth growing
I've been very surprised with the dying breed stuff. Usually when a company pops up
I
Don't I don't buy the hype automatically like a lot of people are like, oh what's up zip zip zap down
you know like with all the Z's and just all about it and I
Hung back and I said, you know what? I'm gonna wait until I grow some of this shit before I uh
Kai does not have the panic piff pics. What does he have up? He has panicked something. It might just be 710 panic then
I'm not sure if he has the panic piff or 710 panic. It's been a while
But yeah, I I had to grow up for myself and
Yeah, man, I'm impressed the black rose is probably the most impressive thing that
They have done
Dragon fruit I have popped. I haven't run yet though. We'll see. I'll give you I'll give you a report on that later
but the
Z cube and black rose and
Watermelon skittles is okay. It's not bad. It's it's as good as anything you could get from from most
Places, but I think the black rose is special. I think that one is the special one as is their gas pedal to their gas pedals
Fucking amazing that the chem D fireball. Oh gee, that was one of the most beautiful lines I've ever seen
I got a female from that. It was just fucking gorgeous. Absolutely fucking gorgeous. So
Again, I'm not working them into lines or anything. I just wanted to see what was up with it
The watermelons Gittles it didn't get watermelons. It got watermelons
The watermelons Gittles it didn't get watermelon from it at all at all from anything that I grew from it
It was slightly sweet like Dutch sweet. So I think there was some Dutch sweetness in it. I don't know
I
Don't know what shield D is
But I know the sham D and that was just a term we used to refer to anything that was called chem D
That wasn't Oh
Shiloh D. Oh, I don't know
He had gas pedals the shit I'm not gonna lie
That black rose a gas pedals. It cubes very good
But black rose a and gas pedal were phenomenal
Fee fucking nominal. I don't know who did the fireball. Oh gee, I'm not sure who's that is
But one thing I will say with black rose a is that I didn't see a single purple Fino in any of it and they're
all super uniform
it's just one of those lines and sometimes in f1's you'll see it a lot where it's a two polyhybrids crossed and
you'll get a
Very uniform line, but in the f2 it turns into craziness
Lemon Versace, I've seen pictures that and I didn't didn't appeal to me
It's not black rose, it's black rose a
Black rose is a different line and I've seen stuff called, California black rose a but this seed pack was just said black rose
A so, you know with them
I'm not sure if it's California black rose a and black rose a is just a shortened term or a black rose a was something
Different and then there's also rose a
So yeah, there's there's rose a is different than California black rose a and I'm not sure
If California black rose a and black rose a are the same thing
Yeah, see I mine's just says black rose a on it and it was in one of the
Those like a cardboard cylinder thing and just as black rose a on it
Yeah, I don't know that's California black rose a or black rose a I've seen green dot Dave's
Grove, California black rose a and his was like deep purple and beautiful. None of these were remote
They didn't look anything like that. Not even close not even close to what Dave's look like
So I'm assuming it's a different line, but I don't know for sure
No black rose a is it's not a black rose cross rose a I'm 99% sure and they're probably gonna tell me I'm wrong
But I'm 99% sure about this it
Dying for you science. Yeah
It's Russian Kush Oz Kush in the old Mendo line effects
Which is the I think mother to purple effects by not so dog. But yeah
effects Oz Kush and Russian Kush
It came out and saying though it came out fucking insane it's very different
What about white Rhino, oh my god Google it
Jesus Christ Cody, come on. I
Think there's enough info about white Rhino out there that I don't need to even talk about white fucking Rhino
That's a pretty well covered string buddy
Okay, what other stuff we got
Okay, what other stuff we got
Clockwork orange I talked about that just a few days ago
I'm gonna bust everyone's balls brain just cuz I can hmm
Not DAS effects no just effects
Tell us more about medicine man. Oh
You got me technicality on the white Rhino, uh-huh
Las Vegas lemon is that the lemon skunk? I don't know what that is. Probably the old shit troll skunk
I would assume like most lemon skunks are I
Like to have a thought those oblivious strange, yeah, you're so sweet you're so sweet
What do I think of Hayes which Hayes
man, oh Hayes man
Is the Google info up to stand to Matt standards on white Rhino it is
You did mr. Matt elite cannabis you didn't listen to faggot Bruce long enough and by the way, I'm gonna say
Everyone should listen to fucking faggot Bruce everybody go YouTube faggot Bruce best rapper on earth
Um, let's see, I
Already did the right berry story you missed it before you came in you missed it
San Diego green crack now that I know it's different from Kush. Well the San Diego green crack
Well, the San Diego green crack we've always kind of thought it was the same thing and that's and it always kind of made me
wonder why the Kush
was called a Kush but
any of green crack is either
Nirvana papaya cross to something else but it lines up closer with so mango and probably so mango super skunk or
Papaya super skunk
I don't know much about NorCal cat piss. I only know San Diego cat piss
Yeah, it's hard to say
Dink man, I'm not sure what that could possibly be. I need a lot more info than that to look at it and
kind of get an idea and
And with so many new companies just Paul and Chuck and 90 lines together. It's really getting harder to do that that identification just from either
Description or from just looking at it
It's easy to it's easier to break it down to base lines, but I couldn't tell you exactly what it is
I can tell you baselines usually though
Great banana dank
I'm gonna remember what's in that that was I didn't sell much of that line. I'm pretty sure it was like the shock something or
I
Can't remember off the top of my head
Yeah, you can try to you can DM me a picture of it, but there's no there's no
guarantee
I
Sue motherfucker. Oh
the the liniest of the lime is gonna be
The limelight I think that carries the heaviest lime traits of any of my lines. I'm not currently selling sprite or
Limes, I guess it's called slider because I misspelled it instead of spider
I misspelled it when I was printing out the tabs and I just got lazy and I was like, alright, fuck it
Matt rise is also a rat. So who gives a fuck about Matt rise?
But yeah, I don't offer those for sale just because I've been passing him out for free to everyone
But limelight for sure is the most lime
Of Rado stuff great pie. Absolutely. I think that that that is the fucking most killer thing that that has come out
That I have experienced from his stuff
What's up Jill
And not many real people man, but yeah, Matt rise is a fucking rat it's on paper it's bad I
Need I need a limestand at the at the the fair
It is rat rise
Unfortunately, I've had a few people confuse me for Matt rise, which really sucks like if there's anyone
I
Would not want to be confused with it's that that rat piece of shit or res. Thank God. Thank God
They don't confuse me for fucking res
I've run a lot of top dog packs. Yes, I have over the years nothing new. But yeah
Pasta for sure
Yeah, that's that's the one that I run is there's only one real cut of great pie
Harry Palms got one seed of it and that one seed that he popped was the
It was a great pie it was really really lucky it was amazing
Yeah, well once you start seeing amber trichomes Denali that means that degradation from THC to
CBN has started to occur. So you want it when it's most cloudy least amber
That's what you want to go for
And if that's where you like the smoke to be some people like CBN heavy smoke though
That is indeed the one I used to make black banana pie not black pie, but I hear my black pie is equally
Amazing
Yeah, I don't really have a black pie. That was a joke
Yeah, there's a bunch of crosses. I wanted to do with my
My my chocolate thai mail, but I didn't because it won't sell. However, I'm working on a few
places for that to go
I'm gonna give it to Cuban to work some lines and it's gonna go to another location where I can work some lines with it
finally
You feel less cloudy trichomes on harvest give a more sativa hybrid high
I think it just gives you a different high but I don't think that there's any high associated with sativa or indica that is accurate
It's a very it's bad
It you can't associate a specific high with indica or specific high with sativa
There's no way that doesn't doesn't play out that way, unfortunately, but that's how most people do
Refer to it. But that's the
If you have any knowledge and have grown out a lot of different lines that you would call sativa and a lot of different lines
You would call indica and a lot of different lines you'd call hybrid you'd find
Sativas that have what you would call an indica high you'd find indica's that have what you'd call hybrid high
So it's it's really hard to say on that
Give it a little miracle
Yeah, it is an old wives tale that's for sure
It's gonna stick around till time immemorial though because collectives one people who own and run collectives for the most part are
uneducated and they will always call shit indica sativa or hybrid and
They'll be the first ones to fucking act like these car salesmen and tell you exactly how that lines gonna affect you
And that is fucking retarded and dumbest shit. I've ever heard. Everybody has a different body chemistry
Everybody's receptors interact differently with different strains. So it's just it's stupid. It's stupid. It's
It's reckless to in many senses. It's reckless because a lot of people have
you know medical conditions that they require cannabis to alleviate the pains of or whatever, you know the symptoms of and
These people are recklessly telling them that this will do that and that is that's reckless
Okay, let's see what else got whatever that weird mutation malformation on the monkey haze someone said it was a trait seen in the OPT
I'm not sure what you're referring to
Is it the crinkle leaf? Which I mean the crinkle leaf you can find a deep chunk anywhere
But I don't know. I don't know you're referring to
Sure, you can tell more on the leaf structure whether it's an indica or sativa. No, it did
the term
Indica and sativa is kind of
Monkey haze if I remember was the black deep chunk pheno crossed to Tom Hills haze and Tom Hill
He made this way later, like right before he stopped making seeds
or not stop making seeds but before I
Don't know. I don't even know if he makes seeds anymore. But that was it was way later when he made that I remember
You had already deep chunk had already stopped being on the market by the time monkey haze came out
Yeah, I don't know how many times I could say different
But
The terms indica and sativa really don't have a place in this market or in in cannabis anymore specifically referring to
effects or structure or type because I can absolutely show you a fucking
Even a tie with a broad leaf slightly broad leaf tie that with narcotic effects
That would be more narcotic than what most people would associate with like a bubble cush. So
That alone shuts down that whole indica sativa hybrid type thing, you know what I mean?
Like it just doesn't make any sense. There is not there is not nor has there ever been just three types of cannabis
It was a really for the time and
The knowledge with cannabis it worked for a while, but it definitely has no place now
Yeah committed I think you're missing the whole point on it there's
It's not
Indica sativa nor should it have ever been referred to that. It's just the fact is that our education wasn't
Complete at the time and that's why it was called the way it was
Let me know when you get that done yellow hammer, I'd like to see it man
But it's not just about polyhybrids
Taking over indica sativa when I'm referring to as land races even that
Have similar effects to what people would call an indica
Have similar effects to what people would call an indica whereas it is a sativa so you can't quantify it that way
You know what?
I mean and that was it's always been that way
But people's education hadn't caught up to what cannabis actually was and how it works if that makes sense
The is there a guidebook or the indicates cannabinoid and terpene profiles and how it affects that again
Everybody has different body chemistry
Everybody has a bought different body chemistry
There's no book that can tell you which way a certain chirping is gonna affect your body chemistry because it's so vastly different
So yeah, that's the answer to that. What else we got? Let's see indica. The term was originally developed for India. That's correct
Indica's were developed for Indian subcontinent cultivars
Yeah, it's kind of more about right seeds like being it's like indica sativa hybrid right seeds
So yeah, and then there's like type 1 type 2 type 3 and now there's type 4 which is just right seeds
So yeah, pretty much just you know, if yeah fried seeds
Yeah, personal body chemistry plays the biggest role of anything and that's why you when you go into a collective
And they tell you how somebody's gonna affect you you should slap them in their fucking face
Tell them not to be so goddamn reckless. I
Saw another question somewhere
Yeah, sativa is simply Latin for cultivated correct
Elaborate on males that throw a single set of pistols on a whole plant
What it what that would mean if you have a set of male throwing a set of pistols on one single spot of the plant
It means for some reason
Ethylene was directed to my right. Yeah. Yeah
Ethylene was directed and not blocked for whatever reason that hormone was released in that particular region of the plant and
That's what causes it to throw pistols
Most males release enough
Jabrilin on their own and they block ethylene
So they can be a true male. That's how it usually works. However, sometimes it's not always the case and for some reason
It's not always the same reason
Ethylene is let in and jabrilin is blocked on a single branch and it could be something from
Light leaks or for some reason nutrients are getting trapped in that one area and excessive nitrogen is causing that to happen
There's a thousand reasons that cause that to happen
It doesn't necessarily mean that the plant is always a herm, but it does mean that for some reason it is letting that trade through
Now there's the argument and I don't know scientifically I honestly don't know how accurate it is
I know DJ short talked about it in his book saying that
He likes males that herm
because it leads to more
female offspring in the progeny because it has a
leaning towards letting more
Ethylene in to cause
Female production. It's it means like like the the progeny is predetermined to be ethylene heavy if that makes sense
Yeah, I don't know if it's true or not though I I did it once with I
Was a I had a blue sativa line blue velvet
and
I crossed it to a c99
Male
because the I was trying out the DJ short technique and seeing if that worked the
The blue velvet would herm from time to time in the c99 was a hermaphroditic male and from the progeny
We didn't see any herms
but there wasn't much it was a slight but only only slight and I didn't have enough of a population to run to really
get an idea of
If it was truly female dominant, so
Um, I don't smoke a lot of CBD so I don't know about the lucid dreams
If you eat a bunch of fentanyl, though, you have some fucking lucid fucking dreams. I
Remember the Afganica, I remember the Afganica quite well
I'm growing outside and I'm getting hollow main stems and I got no other problems
Any idea and is that bad?
No hollow stems mean there's no difference between hollow or not hollow like as far as it being bad or good
There's a difference but it's not bad nor good one isn't necessarily more hempy than the drug type
It's just old. It's it's an old terminology. It's old thought processes back when they were still trying to
Keep hemp as a separate cultivar from the drug type and
They would say oh this one's more of a drug type, you know selecting out of hemp
This one's more of a drug type because it's got the hollow stem, you know, this is from a long time ago
I shouldn't it's it's not even remotely relevant anymore. Not remotely relevant. So don't worry about that
How wide of generations of variation on s1 seed there's no way to
To say that because it depends on one
Let me see if I can break this down because I try to explain this a lot and a lot of people don't get it
Let's say you are going to choose the clone yourself that you're gonna s1 from the seed line, so let's say you have
Some let's go with skittles. Let's just say skittles was a line, right?
It was an it was an f1 line and you're like, okay
I want to pick this Fino from skittles because it's a line and it's a seed line
No from skittles because it is fucking awesome and I want to s1 it and
Start to lock down the traits from this specific Fino now
You go to do it you reverse it. The plants will come out pretty plentiful and and and
Different wild wild variants because skittles has a lot in it and it's a polyhybrid and the line wasn't heavily worked
It was an f1 hybrid. It's not like it's an f6. It's an f1
So you're gonna see wide variant swing not quite as wide as out crossing it obviously because you're not bringing in more genetics
You're keeping it at the base level genetics. However, you're still to see that wide swing
however
Let's say you go to s1 deep chunk because deep chunk is a heavily worked line to where it's down to roughly four three to four
phenotypes
That majorly show themselves probably five or six but four three to four that may that that show up the most often
You're gonna see much less variance in that because you chose it from a worked line
And hopefully that helps you describe that or understand that
clearer
You subscribe to the idea that picking late showing males is always better because early showing males
Yeah, I know. I don't just I don't subscribe to that at all. I choose my males based on a few things but
Some of them are superstitious and I'm gonna be real like that a lot of the males that I pick
It's all on superstition and I don't know until I run the progeny if that was correct, but you got to start somewhere, right?
I like to keep that proprietary what my actual choosing is, but it needless to say it's superstitious
But yeah
You have to you have to
When it comes to choosing males
You never know until you run the progeny and a lot of the times the males that end up being the most effective in
the outcross
Of the plants that I run weren't my initial choices
That's got that's gotten to be less and less and I've gotten better at it over the years
however
Still that that tends to show up
To find an outlier of deep chunk what you need to do is do do like five or six
F gens of open pollinations and you'll find those outliers. They'll start popping out
That's how you
Work the line back out is through open pollination
Exactly crybaby
I think a lot Pete like when I hear people say oh
I always choose my males that when they have the the the late flowering males that have like
Hollow stems like all that shit is just as good as fucking flinging shit
At at a plant and whatever has the largest amount of shit on it you pick like that
It is the same thing. It really is
It's a wing and a prayer and then but the only thing that matters is running the lines
Finding out if it's accurate in the way you want it and be being willing to drop the lines that aren't good
I'm in town driving around need that green. Oh
Poor sick meds, right
Poor fucking sick meds. I'm driving around your town
I need that green crack that you know
But that one where I wiped your name off it and fucking s toed your line if I could said it was my s1
Yeah, I need that one. I need that one
You missed the joke Bryn. You missed the joke. You're late on the joke
Fucking sick meds
Any original white cut yep still have the white I've always kept the white I love it. I love it for breeding in certain things I
Can a reversed males pollen be sterile reversed males pollen is almost always sterile
Well
The pistols are mostly sterile. I should say not their pollen a reversed male shouldn't have pollen a reversed female
Can have sterile pollen sometimes a lot of is more sterile than others
But yeah, it's it's definitely a lot harder than people think to reverse. It's easy to get a plant to reverse
It's not easy necessarily to to collect said reverse pollen and sometimes a lot of it sterile
It looks like I have one minute remaining so I hope you guys have a rad weekend
I just wanted to pop on and chill
If you remind me next time gas fed, I'll tell you about the the platinum alien orange cookies and all the other shit
Next Friday, I believe is the the Mooney part 3 and we are gonna have this fucking recorded this time
Because my buddy's helping me now
What I share I don't even know you why would I share anything with you
People be fucking crazy
And he's X'd later
