Welcome to Breeder's Syndicate.
Hey, there's that handsome man.
There we are.
What are you up to?
I just got done with dinner with the kids.
Did you spritz your hair?
I did not.
No.
You did not spritz?
No spritz.
No spritz.
All right.
No shave.
What will we consider the topic tonight?
I thought we could chat a little bit about the changing seed dynamic and how it's been
one way for every five or ten years or something.
It's kind of dramatically different.
Especially since in today's world, there's a ton of stuff now that's coming out that's
old and authentic and this and that and unchanged.
A lot of people might not know that even stuff ten years ago is hard to get.
So I thought we could chat about how it changed, how it started.
We can take questions on this one pretty easy.
There's a lot of years to cover, so it's not going to be chronological even or go into
tons of depth on everything.
We can give a general overview.
There's already questions about the NL repro and Hawaiian lights and this and that.
A lot of people, when you hear Skunk One or you hear NL or you hear this or that, or even
Sour Diesel for some people, it might be a legendary thing of old that you're hearing
about but you might have come up in an era where it wasn't popular or common.
There's a lot of information out there about certain things, but it kind of needs to get
taught again and again and again and again.
It seems to need to be refreshed more often now than ever before.
Yeah.
The multitude of people coming in.
The information is out there.
There's always been dishonesty in the seed game, but there's dishonesty and there's slight
of hand and there's letting people assume.
Yeah, that's a big one.
Assumptions are a big one where you're not actually lying necessarily.
Lying by omission.
You're just kind of throwing it out there and being like, oh, well, you assumed that,
not me.
Yeah.
So where do we want to start?
Maybe we could just do a super quick overview of what things were like in the beginning.
Okay, go ahead.
You start with this one.
This is your era.
This is my era.
We've already done some long podcasts on this, so I won't touch on it too much, but the parts
that are important for people to know is that in the beginning, there was only a few
companies.
It was all regular seeds.
Reversals and all that were years and years and years away.
And because there was not very much competition, there wasn't very much pressure to change
things.
Right?
Yeah.
So companies would come out with a lineup and that lineup would often stay the same
within a mission or an addition or two over a number of years.
The seed bank from Neville changed every couple of years as he figured out what he had going
on.
But the first five years of Sensi were basically the same stuff.
Unchanged.
And then every year or two, they'd add a new thing in.
When Simon from Serious Seeds came out, he was pretty famous for having the same six
things.
Yeah, six.
Six things.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You know?
And so that was pretty common back then where it was like most of the companies that you
could buy from were out of Holland because that's where it was legal.
And they all had printed catalogs and there wasn't really internet or internet was very
young.
And so the biggest difference from today is that they all used mails.
And so if you look back at that early work, they typically found mails that worked for
them, you know, and repeatedly use them across multiple lines.
Yeah.
And, you know, and finding for them, it might sound crazy today, but like the older breeders
would tell you that like the males were the most valuable cuts in their stable.
Because the females, the females, you could obviously grow the flower and you could decide
whether or not you liked it a bunch.
Yeah.
And so the whole process of the males figuring out whether or not they pass the traits that
you wanted was time consuming.
It was either it was either a roll of the dice and you got very lucky or extremely time
consuming.
Yeah.
You had to you had to like look, you had to make seeds and grow the seeds and be like,
oh, that's not the male I want.
I'm going to go to a different one.
So typically breeders, when they figured out an actual male that was golden for them, they
hung on to it like crazy.
Yeah.
Right.
And I get that one.
You know, and so part of the part of the thing, you know, we were talking in the beginning
about like olden strains popping back up with the skunk one and the and the and this and
that and everything else is that some of the reasons why these strains were so famous is
because unlike today, where there's like a ton of breeders releasing new names all the
time and they're there and gone.
These things had lasting power.
Yeah, they hung around.
And back then, if you bought a seed pack, usually the following, if you chose to buy
another one the next year, it would be a similar seed pack, the same kind of stuff.
Yeah.
And even when change, even with the Canadians and stuff and other companies started biting
that initial stuff, they still use those initial names.
Yeah.
So they got, you know, they got like, you know, that's part of the reason why some of
those names have such, for lack of a better term, name recognition.
Even with casual smokers, they might not have never most smokers have probably never smoked
pure Northern Lights anything, but everybody's heard it.
Yeah.
Most people really haven't honestly probably even haven't smoked skunk one.
Yeah.
Pure.
You know, even though it's in lots of things, but they've heard the name.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You know, and so, you know, they so that was kind of that was kind of how it was for like
a really long time was that there was there was different there was different groups.
And I would say for the first 15 years, it was almost all Holland, Amsterdam based.
Yeah.
Like 85 to 2000 or something.
Yeah, it was pretty, it was pretty Amsterdam based.
And then like in the late 90s, early 2000s, it started shifting over to Canada, too.
And there was, you know, there was, you know, there was a bunch of different groups from
Canada Federation and Legends and BC.
Emery.
Yeah.
I mean, there was even there was even the, you know, one of the cool things about Canada
was that before, like when I first started, you either had to fly to Amsterdam, or you
had to get mail from Holland.
Yeah.
Which was kind of sketch, you know, and then there was Canadian seed companies that started
opening up in Canada, and then you could get it from Canada, which was like a lot more
mail back and forth between our two countries, right?
So it was a lot more like lost in the shuffle.
Yeah.
And so he said, Mark Emery, the one that was kind of famous for a minute was Heaven's Heaven
Stairway.
Yeah.
And they were all tied into like the first forums.
Yeah.
Right.
Well, let's tell me your brother, Ron.
Are you Jim's brother?
Ronny Dobbs.
I was doing a really good job.
I know, I know, I know, sister, and I knew Jim really well.
And then he was one of my mentors.
So that's pretty cool.
I've never talked to his brother.
I'm gonna go back to not paying attention to the comments, but yeah, I will pay attention
soon.
It's just hard.
It's just hard to chit chat and read at the same time.
I lose my train of thought.
So one of the amazing things about the Canadian seed companies is that there were individual
like companies like Sensi or something that were in Canada that were like making seeds,
but there was also like sort of the first seed brokers.
Yeah.
Right.
Where, you know, in Amsterdam days, you kind of went to each individual seed company and
got seeds from them.
Yeah.
Mark Emery or Heaven's Seven Stairway, you know, these groups, like you could get all
of that supposedly, plus all this stuff from Canada.
Right.
And what's important about that too, is that the Canadian people, it really kind of like
widened what was available.
Yeah.
You know, there was different people like, you know, Reefer Man was another one.
You know, there was various people that started throwing out all kinds of different stuff.
You know, DJ Short shifted his work after not being very happy, I don't think, with
partnering with Dutch guys.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He wasn't too, I think he was at Sag Martha first and then went to Dutch Passion.
Yeah.
And then he pretty much started mostly selling his stuff through Canadian companies.
Yeah.
Right.
And that was, this is still all males era.
But what happened in the late nineties with Overgrow and with Cannabis World is now all
of a sudden, like you talk about IG, there was the potential for people to get sort of
internet famous.
Yeah, absolutely.
And there was some people that were on there early on that because they, I'm not, this
isn't dissing them, so don't take it that way, but just because there was only so much
competition and there was only so many people willing to do what they were doing publicly,
they got kind of famous.
Yeah.
Right?
Yeah.
You know, the whole first edition of, you know, people started posting on Overgrow threads
with Blueberry.
I mean, Blueberry is pretty close to Matt's heart, you know, and people would freak out
because it looked so different than anything else.
It was wildly different.
And that's another part of it where it's like, that's the start of where things started getting
internet famous and everybody started talking about them.
And like 1% of people that were talking about them had ever seen it in a bag or smoked it
or smelled it or touched it.
Yeah.
Just online vision, just online vision and online talking.
And so you could get a couple of people that sounded intelligent talking about something.
Yeah.
And it was gospel.
Yep.
You know, I mean, I used to, you used to go on there and people would have grow, grow,
you know, grow forums and, and, you know, growing this and some of that stuff.
Another thing was like the original Brothers Grimm was right in that same era.
Right.
And Cinderella 99, Blueberry stuff with catchy names that was new, wasn't from Amsterdam,
wasn't from the same group, was different genetics.
And it kind of got super famous.
Yeah.
Don't you think?
Yeah.
Yeah.
And it kind of, you know, as far as like tonight's discussion or whatever, what's kind of important
about it is that in the beginning it was literally like SSSC and Neville selling seeds.
Yeah.
And then there was like 12 Dutch dudes selling seeds.
Yeah.
And then there was like 20 Dutch dudes selling seeds.
And then there was a bunch of Canadians making seed.
And then there was like some aggregators of seed in Canada selling seed.
Yeah.
And then the internet comes along and all of a sudden somebody from Oregon, like DJ
Short or, you know, Brothers Grimm or these different people could just pop up.
Yeah.
And there was way, there was, what was it was Breed Bay the first, what was the first,
was it, was it like probably like direct messages in the very beginning, which was the easiest
way for people to communicate and actually get seeds?
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's more.
It goes down in the DM.
It goes down in the DM.
So, you know, the forums, the forums was really the first place where sort of like the worldwide
weed community could start to chat.
Yeah.
And it's where a lot of legends were born.
You know, it's also where the people that are legends started writing down versions
of events that we could compare to what they say and wrote later.
Yeah.
So the forums is where a lot of the real story of Skunk One first got told.
Right.
Yeah.
The real, and we talked, we talked about it with Chemdog on the last episode.
It's where people started writing down thoughts about Chemdog and the original story.
And you know, people could find you, they could be active on threads and they could
find other people and you could start learning about sort of like the larger weed history.
Yeah.
And a lot of times we'd see people growing a clone and it would be like, fuck, I want
that one.
So you'd go talk to him and you'd make connections.
And you know, that's, that's how it all worked.
That's how the circle started.
The clone circles of people, you know, kind of banding together as crews because they
realized like, I've got to keep honest people around me to trade with because I'm getting
fucked all the time.
And there was people like, you know, there's people that are Instagram famous right now
in weed world.
There was definitely people that were, you know, forum famous and their opinion, their
opinions about seed and their opinions about all that.
You know, and that's where like a lot of times for some people, the first time people saw
old timers start arguing with youngsters over what the fuck even was going on.
And you realize some of the personalities behind some of this stuff.
You know, like Tom Hill.
Yeah. You know, Vic High.
And Chimera and all of them.
Yeah. Chimera.
Chimera, who, you know, Matt interviewed him and read a while ago.
You know, he he's actually really personable to watch talk, but he was like the most
intimidating breeder to read about.
Yeah, because his level of like technical knowledge and education on how genetics work
is pretty deep. Yeah, it was really hard to argue with him very hard because he could
he could run circles around people science wise.
Yeah. I mean, he just he just he's you know, he just breeding and genetics and how all
that stuff works. He had a you could call it like a classical education in it or
whatever. Yeah. You know, and he got hella famous, but it's like nobody I never tried
any of his weed. I never tried any of his strains.
No. Yeah, I did.
But I'm just saying, like, you know, like I said, some of the stuff like with blueberry and
stuff, like how many people actually tried the blue velvet?
Yeah, not many. And it was so expensive back then, it was one of the more expensive
strains for its time, you know, so a lot of people weren't buying it.
And so the so people would like live vicariously through like the people that did buy
it and they'd start a grow journal on some forum and then like that would drive seed
sales for certain ones like crazy.
Yeah, because here's this crazy purple blue like long before cookies or whatever, you
know, the blue family really did look unique.
Yeah, and I think we're going to do a whole segment for people watching, we're going to
do a whole segment on the history of purples, because I think nowadays looking around,
you see all the purples and you think, well, this must have been how it always has been.
But it just wasn't like purples were rare as fuck up until.
Two thousand seven, two thousand eight, you weren't seeing a lot of true breeding purples
that you could you could breed with and reliably pass on purple traits or only a few.
And really in 2008, what Matt's talking about, those purples that started popping were
kind of all descendants from half a dozen purple cuts that got famous.
Most of them were descendants of Mendo perps because blackberries probably a Mendo perps
vino and blackberry.
The majority were blackberry or purple oracle.
Oracle and Mendo P kind of created a million hybrids.
Yeah, but, you know, I mean, just we're going to probably yeah, we will do a whole show
on that, I guess.
But yeah, we definitely will.
There's an aspect to it where like in general, people should still know that like from, you
know, so now.
Everyone, all those people still had males.
Hold on, hold on, Rondog.
No, he will never be on this show because he's been caught in too many lies about his
fucking herbal.
But I'll fill you in later, Rondog.
Go ahead.
Couldn't let that one slide by.
Yeah, so I mean, like I'm still not, you know, and so so basically like just keeping it with
the seed game or whatever, everyone still use males.
But now it all of a sudden it was really it was almost like democracy and weed.
Right.
Yeah, there used to be like an aristocracy of seed companies that like they they didn't
have very much competition.
You know, and they didn't have very much new things coming in to like sort of turn the
thing.
So stuff like NL that gets famous and always sold for 20 years.
Yeah.
Right.
Like, yeah, you know, I mean, skunk one, these, you know, hazes, these various different
things, super silver haze.
There was like new things would hit like we talked about the white family and the blue
family a little bit last episode to those things had five or six years of a run where
they didn't have very much else hype battling them for.
Eyes and drool and you know, oh my God, what is that?
Yeah, right.
It was slower, right?
It was much slower.
But what the forums did is they introduced the ability for small scale growers in America
to start selling seed.
Yeah.
For the most part, you really had to like, you know, I mean, even for someone like DJ
Short to sell his blue line, he basically had to send it to Dutch companies and hope.
Yeah, right.
When I first started, I had to send it to at that time, it was mostly British companies
that were doing it.
And you had to send it fucking front it all of it.
And you just had to hope that someone wasn't going to fuck you.
Yeah.
You know, and so you and so basically, then the internet allowed some of these seed people
to sell direct.
Yeah.
And and to create their own seat, you know.
In a way, where that sort of I'm trying to think of like, who else was, you know, Breeder
Steve got really famous in that same era.
Because there was a thing where, you know, once they started changing the laws in Holland
in 99, where they didn't allow seed production, Switzerland opened up big.
And so there was these there was these, you know, there was these forum posts and stuff
about Swiss grows.
And people like Breeder Steve and Shanti Baba and some of the other people that had made
the switch over there, all of a sudden, like now it's like, oh, whatever, I see another
huge 20 acre grow.
Yep, 500 lights, dah, dah, dah, dah, just scrolling through IG.
Oh, look, the Jungle Boys are building another fucking warehouse.
But yeah, seeing like seven greenhouses lined up in a row that were commercially scaled
full of weed in Switzerland.
All of a sudden, you were like, whoa, that's a lot of greenhouses.
Yeah, it's not in a bedroom anymore.
Right?
Yeah.
And they were actually able to breed over there.
And so, yeah, it was kind of like, can you think of anybody else besides like Brothers
Grimm?
The DJ Short, Breeder Steve.
You know, what I was just thinking as you were talking was that what I really remember
was that nobody from Europe was selling direct.
There were very few, unless you were someone that was a well-known breeder, you weren't
able to buy seeds like from Sensi.
You weren't able to buy from Nirvana direct.
You weren't able to buy from Shanti direct.
They would not ship to the US whatsoever.
No, that's why everybody had to go through these other venues of the one spot, whether
it was Seabay, Heaven Stairway, onto Seed Bay, you know, Seed Boutique, places like
that before you could even get your hands on them.
So nobody was buying direct from the breeders back then.
None of it.
No one was doing direct seed sales.
Everybody got sketched by what happened in Neville.
Yeah.
And so that's what I mean.
Like I went out in the 90s when I was going like you basically, most of them, you had
to go and get seed.
Yeah, you had to go there and get it.
Yeah, but they were shipping it to you.
But Heaven Stairway and Mark Emery and places like that, they would ship.
Yeah, you know, and and they and all of a sudden you could like you'd get Cannabis
Culture, which was Mark Emery's magazine or Hype, you know, and that that thing was
pretty famous.
I think most donors bought it because it had some cool pictures and a few cool articles,
but then it would have pages of his seed company and what the offerings were.
Yeah.
And you would just read those paragraphs over and over and over again.
Yeah, there's some good copywriting in some of them.
Yeah, you're like, oh, Federation or, you know, or Casey Brains or this or that and
these new names and with new names came new claims.
Yeah.
And new genetics.
And, you know, the the Dutch started losing their their place of like centrality.
Yeah, you know, but that also started to speed things up a bit, you know, most famous
strains had kind of an arc of I would call it like five to eight years where they were
dominated.
Yeah.
You know, and I think that was true with like, like I said, like with skunk and NL and it
was true with White Widow and Blueberry and it was true with, you know, I mean, you remember
all the hype about like like Cindy ninety nine Cinderella.
And I'm like, well, yeah, I mean, a fast, fast flowering haze, supposedly haze type
high that you could grow outdoors and finish in time.
It's kind of like what DJ used to claim about flow.
Oh, yeah.
The seven weaker, all the qualities you want in a long running equatorial sativa found
in a seven week, you know, seven week plan.
And so Cindy 99 was kind of the same thing, but it was more like eight or nine weeks.
Yeah, much closer, much closer.
And so and also we should probably know that whatever, whatever, what's the best way to
put it?
DMs and the Internet really started people all of a sudden being able to trade clones
with people they didn't know personally in real life.
Yeah.
And I think that was kind of a revolution.
Yeah, that's that's when a lot of these Cali clones that were Cali clone only started to
make their way around the nation, you know, because you really had to be connected.
You really had to be connected in order to to get things.
Yeah.
You know, and you generally speaking, like you had to go meet someone to get them.
You know, where all of a sudden, I mean, it sounds quaint now, but like people could
like go make Internet friends and do some private DMing.
And all of a sudden they got some cuts mails.
Yeah, that that to me has has been lost from from what's going on today, for the most part,
not always, but for the most part, a lot of people pop in and expect to just be given,
you know, just be given.
They don't understand.
You pay your dues, you work, you work your way into certain circles, you gain trust.
And this is a several year time kind of thing, you know?
Yeah, I mean, that's the I would say that that probably is true, like in any like small
subculture.
Yeah, right.
Like the the ability for, you know, for the people that are already in it to kind of lay
down the law and the rules and like the the you know, what conduct is appropriate.
Yeah.
You know, you know, I could use like a I'm a little young for that, but some of my older
deadhead friends told me the worst thing that ever happened to the dead was when they had
a top 10 hit in 1987 because so many people started crop mindset.
Well, so many people started coming to the show that like 95 percent of the people going
there knew sort of the framework of the rules.
Yeah.
And then you get two, three, four, five hundred thousand people that start showing up at all
these different spots in different places and they don't know the rules so much.
And the same thing has happened with weed.
Like there used to be a thing where I mean, 20 years ago, there wasn't anybody offering
like, hey, I've got all these rare cuts.
This one's 300.
This one's 500.
This one's 800.
Like no one would ever trade with you.
If you made if you made a price list for clones back then, you would probably be blacklisted.
Every collector would be like, oh, no.
Now people just look at it like, oh, it's a perfectly acceptable business model.
Yeah.
Like I can just gather up all these clones and I'm not even making a value judgment.
I'm not saying that back then, like that would have been crazy.
Like you had to build trust with something and they would usually extract some type of
concession that you would treat it in a way that they felt was respectful in order to
get.
Yeah.
And if they saw that, they probably wouldn't trust you.
Yeah.
If you posted on overgrow or cannabis world or something like or I see mag later, if you
posted some, hey, here's the 20 cuts that I'm selling and here's the price ranges.
Yeah.
You'd be fucked.
You'd be super fucked.
You'd be fucked, dude.
And like you, people would be jumping down your throat.
People would be flipping out because it was, it was considered like a lot of those things
were kind of considered like family heirlooms back then.
Yeah.
You know, but what's cool about that is that that revolutionized breeding too, because
like one of the things that like, you know, Neville got so lucky when he did was he got
all these American breeders to just give him their work and he got the crossword, right?
So that was very lucky in that sense.
Cause it's like, he got to cross skunk and NL and he got to cross Hayes and NL and he
got to cross, you know, all this shit.
So this DMs and trading that went on in the forums that started really like changing up
what, what growers and breeders could have access to and what they could use and people
mailing each other seeds.
That was even more, that was way more common than I think clone trading.
Oh yeah, for sure.
Way, way more common.
Like clone trading was still pretty rare and sketchy, but people would be like, oh, I took
this, I took this, uh, sweet tooth and I crossed it to these eight things that I have.
And now I have seeds.
I'm going to send them to all my friends.
Yeah.
Clone mailing is also a huge pain in the ass and it always has been, you know, it happened.
It was just super, it was just super rare in my opinion that yeah, it did happen.
But I think trading seeds was more, we were still like in this, in the, you pop seeds
era.
Yeah.
Yeah, definitely.
Don't you think?
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, I just think, I think in general, sending clones was so much laborious, so much
more laborious.
There were so many, there were so few people that had legit shit and it was easier to track
who had what back then than it is now.
So there were, there were all kinds of factors that went into why seeds were much easier
to ship and why they were more traded than clones.
And there was more emphasis on seeds back then anyways, than clones.
Market wise too, I think before the mid 2000s, there was a lot less emphasis on like,
I have this specific strain and it sells for this much.
Yeah.
You could grow a lot of good things and it would still easily sell.
Yeah.
Right.
So people were much more, they were much more content with like, oh, send me 30 seeds and
I'll find a winner and then I'm going to grow it my little group and I'll have no
problem moving it.
Yeah.
That was a big issue too.
You know, is, is that as the last, the last 15 years, it's gotten more and more and more
specific on, do you have this cut?
Yeah.
Where I think that era that we're talking about, it was more, people were way more into
like finding seeds.
Yeah.
I think in that era, you were more likely to get a real cut because the whole fake cut
thing hadn't really taken off yet.
Well, no, there was, there was no, nobody sold any, so there was no money in it.
So there was no reason to deceive.
And like, there was fake cuts getting traded, but like anything else, it takes a long time
for that stuff to snowball.
Oh yeah.
Because you had, someone has to grow it out, figure it out that it's fake in the first
place, go through enough hands to be caught.
Sure.
And, and in some cases it's like, so you got a fake or two or whatever, like getting
traded back and forth here and there to one or two people.
And then fast forward 10 years and the game changes a little bit and there's 30 people
trading that cut.
Yeah.
So it would just get into way more hands.
I was always honestly like, that's more Matt's era than mine in the sense that I was way
more of a lurker because I didn't trust technology.
He's a like, to, I didn't trust technology to DM people and to give out my address and
to have people send me.
I was stupid.
I was, I was in the era where people still weren't selling direct.
And I'm like, why the fuck are people selling direct?
I'm just going to sell direct.
And it was probably a very, very risky idea.
And I didn't realize it at the time how indeed risky it was.
I figured more people would do it than me.
I did super risky shit.
I just, I just like, I just didn't understand.
Like I thought like with the push of a button, the FBI could just find my VPN and everything.
I know you're also male phobic.
I don't like it, but I mean, I would do things like I would go to Amsterdam, you know, and
I would like put seeds, sew them in the hem of my jeans, like twice a year.
And like, and I would make these like tiny little notes with like, like prison notes,
like the smallest lettering, like NL5 skunk one, this tiny little note.
And I'd slip that in the hem and then I'd push the 30 seeds in there and sew it back up.
You know, so that's like actual like smuggling in a way, you know,
I was just thinking how bad it would suck.
Like if you got home and you forgot to tell your mom not to wash your jeans.
Oh yeah.
You wash your jeans with your seeds.
When I was buying, I moved out, uh, soon, you know, uh, early on.
So there wasn't a, there wasn't any like come home with illegal seeds to my mom.
But yeah, that was like, and we used to get really anointed out.
Like the last day you were in Amsterdam, you would like take, you would get a new hotel room
and you would take everything in your bag out one by one.
And you would look for like wheat leaves or a small chunk of hash.
You would make sure you laundered all your shit.
Right.
Like, uh, you know, I have a buddy, you know, um, I've talked about him before, but,
um, you know, he had a, he had a wallet, right.
And the wallet had a Velcro seal.
And like the tiniest flake of weed was sticking to the Velcro.
And when he went through customs, they looked through his shit.
They find it.
Yeah.
And all of a sudden they're like, what is this?
And there's like the tiniest, tiniest flake of, you know, it was like a sweet leaf that
was stuck to the bud and then it stuck to the Velcro.
Well, that was like, we had a two hour delay because then they ripped apart everything in
his life and they like looked at the soles of his shoes and they like image the bottom
of his suitcase.
I mean, it was like, they were, they were on him like white on rice.
I bet.
From one little flake, you know?
And then back then we were sketched enough because you were flying home.
Sometimes we would do this thing where we would go to Holland, but we would fly home
from like Germany or Belgium or France.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
At least it was like a direct flight, not necessarily straight from Amsterdam.
Yeah.
Because you're going to be looked at way more heavy coming out of Amsterdam.
Sure.
Yeah.
Just because it's like, yeah, it's like you're flying home from like, I don't know.
Yeah.
You know, it's like, it's like in the eighties, you're flying home from Bogota.
Yeah.
And you're a dude with big sunglasses, you know, like might get looked at for a minute,
you know, because it's Bogota, you know?
So it, it, uh, you know, it basically like it took a lot of effort then.
And, uh, and I think the forums really sort of like democratized and made the effort easier
because you could like hunch it from your living room.
Yeah.
You know, and unlike today, I mean, I've, I've, we, I've made some comments before about like
IG being irritating me because, you know, people curate their page so hard that a lot
of good information gets lost because people will just block you or delete your comment
or even just take down the whole post.
If the, you know, it goes off, it goes off kilter for them.
Yeah.
You know, even my, my catalog posts have been flagged and taken down.
Just pictures of cat pages from catalogs.
So people have access to see what was in the catalog.
Even those get reported and taken down, you know?
So in the early days, the only way that you could get something taken down on the forum
is if the moderator, you knew the moderator and they were willing to do something shady
and get rid of it.
Yeah.
Back in the day, the worst thing that used to happen on the forums was if people got
too mean to each other, they would just lock comments, lock the thread.
They would just lock the thread, but the thread, the information itself would stay up there.
So I think there was like a generation of people that grew up, you know, and I mean,
I talked, I've talked to a few times about like those harvest festivals that I went to
a whole bunch of people, you know, from, from Ron and stuff, all those people met from the
internet.
Yeah.
I mean, there was like groups of friends from different regions, you know?
But, you know, I mean, that's the first place I met CSI.
Yeah.
And by Ron, you mean NCGA for everybody watching.
Yeah.
NCGA, North Cal Growers Association.
He used to, they used to throw in Sonoma County, they used to rent out a house for three days
and basically have a harvest festival that was catered where everybody would bring down
seeds and weed and hash and their stuff and shoot the shit, eat and talk about life.
Yeah.
You know?
And that's where a lot, a whole bunch of us, even though like CSI and I only lived a couple
hours apart, that's where we met.
Yeah.
And it was the internet.
And then there was people like, like Chip who started the cocoa that, you know, the,
you know, he started a soil company.
Yeah.
The Mendo Royal.
Royal Gold.
From Royal Gold.
He has a podcast now and I think he's in Colorado or something like that.
Yeah, that's what I heard.
But anyway, like, you know, I met Chip there and he, you know, he was just back from Switzerland.
Yeah.
And he had a bunch of, you know, pictures of all these greenhouses full of weed.
And so it was like those kind of things brought together a bunch of breeders.
Yeah.
Right.
And that is what really started like the polyhybrid era where people started being
able to trade their stuff back and forth.
Yeah.
And start crossing things to different things.
And oh, I've got this little bit because most of the time back then you got two or
three cuts that your friends grew.
Yeah.
And that's all you had access to.
Yeah.
And then maybe you got a little, you know, it's like, yeah, like if Matt was, if Matt
was growing in San Diego or some shit, then he could get things in San Diego.
Yeah.
But he wasn't going to get things that were famous in New York or Florida or it wasn't
that easy.
Yeah.
Not during that era.
Not during that era at all.
It wasn't that easy.
And so, you know, Matt made the point now where people like want access to all this
stuff really fast.
Yeah.
And they don't realize how many years of just being around and being trusted it took
before someone would start to let you in.
I take, I compare it a lot to like, if people are familiar with tattoo shops, how when you
want to be a tattoo artist, the first place you start is with the broom.
You start with the broom and you sweep the tattoo parlor and you can do this for six
months to fucking 10 years.
It's, it's all based on when you gain the trust for someone to take an interest in you
and be like, I'm going to show you a trade because I think you're worth, worth showing
this to.
I'm going to invest time in you and you're going to return that by helping me, you know,
apprentice, you know, it was a much more of like an apprentice situation in a lot of these
things when it came to trust.
And I think too, that was how seeds were.
Yeah.
I mean, if you go back, you know, why did, you know, after Neville left Sensi, for instance,
why did he partner with Shanti?
Yeah.
Shanti was probably younger and more vigorous.
You know, he kind of took them under his wing.
There was a lot of that that happened.
There was a lot of people that trained people coming up.
Yeah.
You know, and you learned from someone above you.
Um, and, uh, you know, I mean, Simon and, uh, what's his fuck, uh, Adam, I guess.
Yeah.
And Tony from, you know, so Adam from TH seeds, Simon from serious seeds and, uh, um, Tony
from sack Martha.
Yeah.
They all worked under Neville.
Yeah.
And then they learned enough and they learned what the fuck they were doing and they learned
how to breed and they worked for him for a few years and then they started their own
company called cerebral.
And, and me, I, like I was talking about earlier with Ronnie dog, I learned from Jimbo who
he was referred to as his brother, but it was like his uncle or cousin or something.
I learned under him, you know, like, and he was not, it was not an easy person to learn
under, but, uh, I learned a lot, you know, and then later on learned a little bit under
Neville and you get lucky sometimes.
I still learn a ton.
Even, even this far in my career, I'm learning a ton under CSI.
Just, it's, it's how it goes.
I mean, 20 years, 20 years ago when I was in my early twenties or whatever, um, you
know, you could go on the breeder forums, uh, the overgrow for instance.
Yeah.
And all of a sudden Sam's gunk man's on there.
Yeah.
And Tom Hill's on there and chimera is on there and like guys that are like real good
at what they're up to.
Yeah.
And know a lot and are opinionated and, you know, are, are fighting amongst each other
over who's what and how.
Yeah.
Battling over this or that.
But in those battles you get to see like, well, here's why I believe this.
Yeah.
You know, and you could read that stuff and you could get a lot more educated.
Yeah.
You know?
Um, and so, you know, you, yeah, you, you learn from, you learn from observation, you
learn from someone teaching you, you learn from reading and various sources.
I mean, someone asked me earlier today, like, you know, what's the, what's the go-to how,
if I wanted to start breeding, where would I want to learn?
And I told him to go to marijuana botany.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's, that's what I always tell everyone.
It comes in here.
Marijuana botany first place.
If you want a primer, Rob Clark did a real good job of laying out all the basics.
So you might see.
Anything's come close, even remote, like there's Greg Green's breeders Bible, all that and
respect to him, but I don't think anything's come close to Robert Clark's, um, marijuana
botany, even though it's outdated, it still has so much info that is never going to be outdated.
Yeah.
It's like, it really is a true Bible.
If you want the basics and you want the terminology and you want how the shit works and, you know,
obviously it was written a long time ago.
So things have advanced in certain ways, but like, um, it's still a really good core.
Core thing to learn.
Sure.
Um, and that's, and that's, you know, you know, so the other part of it is like,
people should probably realize that, um, when people bread, uh, which did you call it with,
with red and Camaro, the shotgunning method, Matt?
Yeah.
Yeah.
The shotgun scatter method, the mailman, you take some males, you're like, these males look good to me.
I'm going to throw them on these plants and see what happens.
Sometimes you use one, sometimes you use five.
Five.
Yeah.
And then you'd have to grow up a bunch of seed and be like,
which ones have the traits in them that I want to do for the next round?
Yeah.
You know?
Um, and so it was kind of more, I think 20 years ago, it was a lot more traditional breeding.
Yeah.
You were forced to take multi-stage breeding.
Yeah.
For the most part.
Yeah.
You know?
Um, yeah.
And, and, you know, and so, you know, uh, you know, he, someone mentioned sub cool or gypsy
Nirvana.
I mean, yeah.
The general point is that more and more people started being able to offer seeds to the public.
Yeah.
Whether they were making their own seeds, whether they were middlemanning seeds from other people,
you know, there started to be a wider variety of places where you could actually get them.
Yeah.
I mean, it started off with two.
Right.
Sorry, Bryn's doing a dance for me.
You went from, you used to have to go to Amsterdam and, and that's part of the reason why like
SSSE and Neville met all those important people.
Yeah.
Because they were the only people doing what they did.
So all these interested parties, whether it's Seattle, Greg or Sam Skunkman or Rob Clark or,
um, Jim Ortega, they all met the same dudes.
Yeah.
Because there's two of them.
Right.
And then there was 10 and then there was 20.
And so sub cool was a lot of people's first breeder disappointment.
You know, there's a, there's a, there's a phrase that's used a lot, not, not in cannabis, but just
in general, which is don't get to know your heroes.
Yeah.
You know, and it applies to music.
It applies to art.
It applies to a lot of things.
Sometimes your heroes, the more you get to know them, the more you're impressed by them.
Yeah.
Sometimes it's, you're like, Oh my God, how did, why do people think this way about this person?
Yeah.
You know?
Um, and, uh, you know, and, and, and so, you know, cause seeds have always been shady.
Always.
You know, they're beans.
They all look like some, you know, I mean, they don't have that much variation in them.
Yeah.
They look like seed.
Some of them are tire strikes.
Some of them are pale, some are big, some are small, but it's like, you know, you buy these
things and you don't know what you get for months.
Yeah.
And then it was all prohibition.
So what are you going to do?
Like, there's no, like, you're not going to leave a bad Yelp review.
Yeah.
Jumping online on Amazon and being like this shit bag.
Fucking I, I suppose, you know, like you did, you were just like, you told your friends and
that was bunk, but like, there wasn't, you know, like the forums were the first place that people
started to talk back and forth amongst like, what'd you find?
Yeah.
Right.
Yeah.
What'd you find?
You know?
And so it's always been, it's always been a little bit rough because, uh, you know, I,
I talked about it on a show earlier too, where people like Shaunti and others, all those people
in the second generation, they decided to start hiding the lineage of what they used.
Very much.
Because they didn't want all their competitors to just copy them.
Yeah.
I have been trying to figure out what the exact parents are of AK-47
since AK-47 popped up in the mid nineties.
You know, and I did invite, uh, Simon on to talk about that.
Um, and, and Luke from paradise, Simon said he would, but Luke from paradise is another one
where you just don't know what the genetics are in any of his lines, but he's made some
all really awesome lines.
SensiStar?
Yeah.
Who knows?
Who fucking knows?
I mean, there's theories about it being a big Sir Holyweed cross, all kinds of different shit.
There's all kinds of theories and they, they, you know, because Neville and, and Correll from SSSC
didn't have any competition.
They were just like, this is this and this.
Yeah.
This is how I got it.
This is where I got it.
This is what I did with it.
Yeah.
This came from a guy in New York in a bad seat here.
Yeah.
This came from this.
I bought these two cuts in Oregon and that's how I got the G13 in this hash plant, you know?
Yeah.
And then the second wave, they all obscured most of what they were using and why.
Yeah.
And maybe they did it for competitive reasons, but for like historians or people really wanting
to know the lineage, uh, I don't know how many hours Matt and I, and a group of our
friends have spent trying to figure out what's we've scoured everywhere looking for lineage
on some of this stuff.
Oh yeah.
And you get hints here and there, but it's never anything you can go off of.
Even if you can track down the original quote unquote breeder or person who released the
seeds nine times out of 10, you're still not going to know at the very end, just because
of the nature of how it was made back then.
People say Cherry AK.
You know, AK was a very, it had a great name for the time.
Simon only sold six things.
And, you know, probably four of them were pretty fire.
Yeah.
And, uh, you know, and it's, um, you know, there was a Sandalwood AK in, um, in Colorado.
Matt's done a bunch of work with the Cherry AK.
I had a Lemon AK for quite a while too, that we did work with.
There's a RC Cola AK back in the day.
Yeah.
It doesn't, I mean, even like, uh, who doesn't like Nebu or someone like that get all upset
and say no one else could have a Cherry AK but him.
Yes.
Which is preposterous because if he found it in seeds of AK 47, it obviously can pop.
Well, I mean, he says, technically he says he owns, he owns Cherry Liqueur AK 47, but
he owns also all of Cherry AK 47 that no one else has a right to use the name is what he
says.
Yeah.
And obviously it's just a flavor profile that pops up in that cross.
Yeah.
So it's like pretty hard to like, be like, I'm, I'm trademarking this, this Turk.
And it wasn't even his strain, but yeah.
No, no, it's like, I'm the first one that came up.
Um, and, uh, you know, and so, you know, he had, but what's in Kali Mist, what's in the
only one, I think he actually said that you knew something was he had white Russian.
Yeah.
White Russian.
That's right.
Which you knew half of it.
Cause it was white widow by AK 47.
Yeah.
You know, um, but AK and Kali and some, a lot of these different things, like people
started obscuring what's actually in stuff.
Yeah.
You know, or they started taking famous names.
You remember when, who is, who is the, who is the group, uh, um, that claimed to have
NL nine in Canada?
Oh, I don't know on that one.
I remember NL six from Kenny from Tricone technologies that wasn't related to NL six.
Yeah.
So there's, so, and you know, that's the thing now is that, you know, we talked about Todd
a little bit or whatever, but there's people that are popping up with these eighties and
nineties seed lines.
Yeah.
And the names are so famous.
Neville did say, uh, Kali mist is NL five Hayes.
Uh, but then Neville was bitter and very, I liked Neville or I liked Neville.
Let me, he's a Neville Stan is what we call them.
Yeah.
But Neville was famous for being bitter and saying, everybody in Holland, everything was
from me.
Yeah.
They all ripped me off.
And that happened when he came back about nobody had, nobody had, nobody had anything
original and I, you know, to his, to his credit, I will say, um, you know, Adam and Simon and,
uh, and Tony left his company and started their own seed companies and all of a sudden
had a bunch of lines really fast.
Yeah.
So that's a little sus.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That was probably right.
That his stuff is in a lot of what's around.
It doesn't mean, it doesn't mean that it doesn't mean that like all the stuff that they used
was from him.
Yeah.
But they probably took some stuff.
Yeah.
Probably even some breed, probably even some breeding males.
You know, what was always interesting to me about the whole, um, hidden lineage type thing
was that if these guys were super, super well school breeders, they would have known
that even if the people had, had the recipe, let's say they just had the generic recipe
of white widow cross the blueberry for blue widow.
And they're like, ha, we figured it out.
They could never remake it the same unless they had the exact same clones.
You know, it just didn't make any sense to me that they would ever hide the lineage,
but that yet it did happen.
Pot of gold is fire.
Someone's kind.
I looked at the comments, um, pot of gold and, uh, and the real McCoy were my two favorite
lines from the flying Dutchman.
Yeah.
One of them was Hawaiian by skunk one.
And the other one was a Hindu cush by skunk one.
Yeah.
I have a bunch of the real McCoy.
I think that's the Hawaiian one.
It's the Hawaiian one.
Yeah.
They were really good.
Um, you know, and so, yeah, they, uh, um, they were like the reason why the reason people,
someone just asked how come a bunch of the other NL numbers aren't famous.
Um, it's because after three or four years of breeding with them, Neville decided to
use the one, the two and the female cut he found to the five basically.
And that's it.
Yeah.
So the three, four, six, seven, eight, nine, 10, 11, um, they just weren't sold.
Yeah.
You know, they weren't sold.
Um, and Greg only Seattle, Greg, he really, he only sent them to what he told, what did
he tell us?
He said, he sent them to Neville and the drunkards.
Yeah.
So there was basically only Neville and then sensei.
Yeah.
And since he just ran with what Neville had already discovered at the seed bank.
Yeah.
So, you know, um, you know, and so that's kind of where they went is that, and it makes
sense because if you think about it from Neville's perspective, I mean, he always used to joke
that he could be like, I'm going to really slow as fire line ever.
And someone's like, Oh, I found two bananas and it didn't yield as much.
This line sucks.
Yeah.
Sucks ass.
Right.
And so even back then they, people felt pressure from consumers.
Yeah.
And so, you know, people like to breed with stuff that makes happy customers.
Yeah.
You know, NL six, seven, eight, nine, 10, 11, or whatever, that we're all like, like
messes of Afghan and Sativa, they probably were a big mess and a pain in the ass.
Very likely.
He said that he was using a lot of Indians, Mexicans, Columbians mixed up in that, in
that bid.
So there's going to be some wild shit that just wasn't good that they crossed it.
I mean, even today, most people don't want to grow something that's longer than nine
or 10 weeks.
Yeah, exactly.
You get some NL 10 or whatever, and you grow it and it takes 13 weeks and you should get it.
You know, most people would still do that today.
Yeah, I would think so.
Just cause it's like it, it, you know, and so, um, that, I don't know, like it.
And so then maybe we should, we should talk about something for a minute where it's like
the real, so for, let's say from like 85 to 2005, um, it was, it was all traditional breeding
as the Lord intended.
Traditional breeding as the Lord intended, it was all males and females.
Yeah.
You know, you just, you'd let a few males go in a room full of ladies.
And all the traditional types of breeding were applied for the most part.
Cause that's all anybody knew.
Yeah.
And then, uh, around, um, you know, uh, I don't know, Matt knows better than me, but
probably somewhere around say 06 to 2010.
Yeah.
Uh, a revolution happened in that.
Um, and I'll shut up here in a minute and let Matt talk, but certain people started
on the forums, uh, and doing research and stuff like that, figuring out that you could,
you could induce a female plant to produce pollen.
Yeah.
And you could make feminized seed.
Yeah.
And that information was rare and tightly held and how to do it was basically unknown.
And at first Matt knows better than I do, but it was kind of like, who was it?
It was you.
Well, I mean, if you, if you start back with the feminized stuff, you had Dutch passion
really starting it.
Um, high was doing some work on it.
Sam, the skunk man had covered a little bit of it.
Bet from spice brothers had talked about it a bit and he was over in, I think New Zealand.
But as far as the American stuff, it really didn't kick on into the American stuff till
like OG rascal.
I'm me CSI.
And there were a few others, but, um, Soma, yeah, so I mentioned Soma, his, his
rotalization method was notorious, which was basically the torture method, the herm
torture method.
Right.
So small pop, the extreme drought, the hell out of it, they get it to think it's dying
multiple times to the point where it freaks out and panics and throws some manners that
you can use.
Yeah.
And, and during, during that period, probably, I mean, I want to say all the way up to like
2013, 2014, fem seeds were just looked down upon, or at least the general consensus was
all fems, herm, all fem seeds, herm, they all produce poor fucking progeny.
It's all, it's all riddled with shit and mutants and, you know, and, and even though that wasn't
the case and people weren't finding that it didn't matter.
It's such a common, a common theme that people were cheating.
Cheating.
And what was the huge, there was a huge issue with, with feminized seed where most customers
felt like you were cheating.
Yeah.
You were cheating and destroying, destroying the genome.
You were fucking up lines.
You were selling out for profit.
You were getting rid of males and getting rid of traditional breeding so that you could,
um, you could skip steps and profit.
Yeah.
And people were looked down on.
Yeah.
For feminized breeding.
And I should make the point.
The reason why I said, you know, that era was because all the first people that Matt mentioned,
they were not sharing how they did it.
No.
You couldn't find out from Dutch passion how they were making feminized seed.
No, no, they didn't want that.
You couldn't find out from, you couldn't find out from any of these people.
Yeah.
Right.
So did it exist?
Yes.
Was it hidden knowledge?
100%.
One of the first people I did actually see say how to do it was FET.
And he released someone else's info that was around, but FET put it out there pretty wide.
And it was the first recipe on how to make STS mixture that I saw.
But Caleb remembers better than me on who was the original person that wrote it.
But my first introduction to it was when FET published it.
Right.
And so, you know, yeah, that stuff was, someone said, collodial silver was hidden knowledge.
You know, people want to say that, like, all the knowledge that people have right now,
even with breeders like Matt or like CSI or people that have been doing feminized seeds
for the last 10 to 12, 14 years.
Yeah.
It's still an art form with a lot of failure.
Yes.
And there was a lot of failure in the beginning.
It wasn't just like, oh, I'm going to spray collodial silver.
I'm going to spray some STS.
And now I'm done.
Yeah.
You know, when I was doing a bunch of breeding, you don't really fail with males.
No, no, I've never had a male failure.
You know, like, I never had, I never like was like, oh, I failed that whole seed run.
And now I'm growing like 18 different strains, one or two of each.
Right.
Yeah.
You'd have one or two or three males, and they would produce an enormous amount of
pollen for your whole room.
Yeah.
When people first started experimenting, and let's be clear, we're not done experimenting.
No.
Matt and I and CSI and I and Matt and CSI and other various friends, we talk all the time
about improving methods, limiting failure.
Everyone fails.
Yeah.
Trying to trying to find the consistent what what brings consistency in reversals is it's
very hard.
I mean, me, I talked about this with CSI three or four times a week, just our different findings
and comparing our notes and all that shit.
And it's just we no one's found a consistent way to guarantee that every plant, every expression
of every plant, meaning not just, you know, but it's like expressions of the same clone
two feet apart, why one reverses and drops pollen and the other reverses and doesn't.
We have no answers to this yet.
I mean, it's always experimenting.
They've done, you know, they've done things where it's like Matt or him have reversed
something and it's worked like a charm and they've gotten unbelievable results and it's
dumped pollen.
Yeah.
And then they go back and they use those same plants to reverse them again.
And they do the same thing to the plant and it fails.
Yeah.
Or or drops 10 percent of the amount of pollen it should.
Yeah.
And so, you know, I see I see our buddy Pip.
Yeah, he failed.
I mean, and failure is really frustrating for a breeder.
Yeah.
You know, you might only get if you're nonstop breeding, you might only get three or four
cracks at breeding a year.
And if you want to buy the SDS spray, it's on right.
We got our reversal spray.
If someone asked about it, I would say reversal spray up at right.
See, you can buy it.
But just just read the read the directions because I'm very, very transparent.
Sometimes you're going to have to try three or four times not to get it to reverse, but
to drop pollen.
There's a big difference.
Reversing doesn't mean success.
Showing balls doesn't mean success.
You only have success when it drops pollen and makes seeds and makes seeds.
And, you know, even just on the forums and all the learning of like how much of what
of each to use.
Should I use colloidal silver?
Should I use SDS?
Should I use this other thing?
Should I use that?
Have I tried this?
Yeah.
Do I need less concentration?
Do I need more concentration?
When do I combine them?
Do I apply it once strong?
Do I apply it 15 times week?
And if you do all that and get success and try to repeat it the next time the exact same
way with all the same inputs, it may not perform in the same way.
It's so it's frustrating.
It is.
So in a way, you know, the forum slowly, slowly pushing feminized seed was like a sea change
in how people bred.
Yeah.
Because before everyone had to have males and everyone had to keep those males and everybody
traded seed.
And then people were like, oh, I can take this elite and I can reverse it and cross
it to these other elites.
Yeah.
And so now most breeders honestly don't even have males.
A lot don't know.
Yeah.
Most it's completely shifted in the last 10 to 14 years from like a few people getting
shit on for daring to reverse plants and cheating to being the way everyone does it.
Yep.
And I made I made a backward switch where I did almost all exclusively feminized breeding
for a long time and went back to doing mostly male breeding despite selling the spray just
because it is costly.
It is super costly to make them seeds because of the failure.
I mean, we've talked about it.
We've talked about it before and like our buddy Pipp commented.
But we've had a bunch of really good friends that have tried to reverse sour and and failed.
Yeah.
You know, or, you know, I remember, you know, you know, Pipp reversed it once and got like
30 seeds.
Yeah.
So you do this, you do this whole thing.
And all of a sudden you're like, oh, I have a little handful for myself, but I can't actually
sell them to the public.
I don't even have enough to give to my friends.
Yeah.
I think CSI the first two or three times he tried to reverse TK, it failed.
Yeah, it was real bad.
And he kept trying different methods to even get the thing to reverse.
Yeah.
And he finally got it to reverse and it gave him about 10 or 15% of the seeds he would
normally get from something that reversed well.
Yeah.
So, you know, it it's completely shifted how people breed.
It's completely shifted what they're after.
It's completely shifted like what, you know, what, what customers expect.
Because when I was talking about in the beginning, a lot of these seed lines, they would be available
for like five or 10 years.
Yeah.
Most seeds today are one offs.
Right.
Yeah.
And maybe that same breeder will go back and redo the line again.
But most seeds exist from however many seeds that dude got or that lady got until they're gone.
Yeah.
And someone's asking about red pollen on fem plants.
It's totally fine.
It's totally fine.
A lot of a lot of today's cloning lines that are being hit are the femmes.
They're just made with bag seed herms.
So, I mean, it's it's so common that it's in moot point.
And yeah, you could have things that you don't realize are a femme plant.
But you know, and.
You know, I do have some thoughts on why things don't reverse well.
That could be a show in itself.
Yeah.
But people people should think about, you know, because one of the things that breeders
get hated on the most, which I'm actually supportive of is herms.
Yeah.
Um, because you got to think about for.
For forever of cannabis history, herms were a survival tool.
Yeah.
That allowed female plants to pollinate themselves and continue the species.
If for some reason the males got killed or the pollen failed or they weren't around.
Yeah.
And so lots of strains hermed.
Yeah.
And then in the beginning, all the weed was seeded.
So why would you care if it hermed?
Yeah.
It was relevant.
You're selling seeded weed all the time, all the Colombian, all the Mexican, all this, that it was
all it was all see it was all seed.
Yeah.
So it's only really herms started only really becoming an issue for people in probably the 90s.
Late 80s, early 90s, when people were growing indoor and they had a very small amount of
weed they were trying to grow for them or their friends or whatever.
And they didn't want to get a seated room.
Right.
Yeah.
Um, but those herms had been bred in as a survival mechanism for cannabis for millennia, probably.
And we've and there's only been about 30 years of pressure to get rid of them.
Yeah.
Right.
And then now the cookies is the abundance.
It's back in full form.
Well, what happens to is somebody mentioned S1s, you know, and stuff and, and, you know, S1s.
I'll be the, maybe I'm not the first to tell you, but S1s kind of suck.
Right.
Yeah.
You know, I mean, obviously I have friends that sell S1, so I'm not dissing it, but even
they will tell you that, like the primary goal of an S1 is to find the look in that
exact strain without an outcross and see what's in its genetics.
Or for preservation period.
Yeah.
Or for preservation, you know, and, and you're more likely to try to find an elite or two
or something you like, then you are to get any kind of consistency.
Yes.
You know if you want consistency and you want phenols to pop at some rate and outcross is
better.
Yeah.
Or S2.
But in a lot of cases, there might only be one cutting left of an entire line for you
to work through.
Yeah.
There might not be a male, you know, there people don't keep males either.
So how do you get a male of Trinity?
Yeah.
How do you get a male of dog shit?
How do you get a male of corn?
How do you get a male of, of, you know, you name it.
Yeah.
You know, and in a lot of cases you can't.
You used to be able to get males by you'd buy the seed line and it was a regular seed
line.
Yeah.
Now that it's almost all fem, you can't even get a male if you wanted to.
Yeah, it would take some, a lot of work.
People say, why are some S1s uniform and some aren't?
Because if you have a bunch of uniform S1s, it means that there's not very much genetic
variation in that cut whatsoever.
If you get a bunch of crazy stuff all over the place, it means that you have a pretty
wide genetic lineage in there and it's going to express in all kinds of different ways.
So, so to, to dumb it down, it just means if you have a bunch of variation, you have
a line that would probably wasn't worked.
If you have a uniform line, it was probably whatever that clone was came from a line that
was either worked or already uniform to begin with by nature.
Yeah.
You know, so, you know, and, and so males have become super rare, you know, and, and
all that and everyone is, and so breeding has gone from almost a guaranteed success
to very dicey.
Yeah.
I would say.
Yeah.
And in, in, in natural agriculture or like agriculture, normal agriculture, most, most
breeding work is done with selfing and feminizing.
It's, it's not a lot of male work.
Candidus is just catching up to that, just catching up to it.
And, you know, it, and that's the other part of it is like real, real, I don't want to
say real breeding because I don't want to insult anyone, but agricultural breeding,
they are breeding with very specific goals in mind.
Yeah.
You know, um, mostly it's goals.
Most, that's what it is.
Well, I mean, in cannabis breeding, I don't know if it's goals.
No, seed making seed making in cannabis is not goals, but actual breeding.
So for instance, if you're breeding something like, I'll just throw it out there like corn,
you might be going for ear size and disease resistance and pest resistance.
And when it finishes and you have certain traits you're looking for.
And if you're going to sell for, you're going to like breed on that level, you're finding
plants that match all those characteristics and you're trying to lock them in.
Yeah.
You know, um, the way we breed now, most people are just, most people aren't growing
rooms of seed anymore.
You're just phenol hunting for a lot of people.
Yeah.
You know, so there's not a lot of breeders that are like, I need to be able to breed
this super consistent Urkel by snow because people are going to plant acres of it.
And these are the qualities they're looking for when they plant it.
Yeah.
You're like crossing things and then hoping, you know, hoping something pops up.
And so, you know, our buddy bitter just said, breeding should be goal oriented.
It should.
Yeah.
I mean, be goal oriented.
And the more goals you add to what you want, the harder you made your job.
Yeah.
Is real hard.
The more you start adding to it.
Finding what you want in one plant, the more things you put on that plant that you have to
have is tough.
Yeah.
You know, um, and so a lot of times now, maybe we should talk about this for a second, because
this is totally your era where it's like when breeding breeding became, I'm going to reverse
this plant.
That's an elite that most people can't get.
Yeah.
And I'm going to cross it to these 10 or 15 things that you also probably can't get.
Yeah.
And I'm going to sell seeds and you probably can't get either parent, but here's a hybrid.
Yeah.
And you've already gotten excited about both parents.
So maybe there's something cool in the hybrid.
I haven't tested it.
But there's a lot of breeders out there now that don't test their own work.
Yes, correct.
They take the, they're going to be like, you know, and I'm not calling anybody out specifically,
but it's like, I'm going to take gelato this and I'm going to reverse it onto the 12 most
popular cuts I know of that are getting decent, decent ticket.
And then I'm going to add packaging and I'm going to make a special name for each one.
And I'm going to hope somebody finds something bomb and it helps my sales.
Yeah.
You do, you don't, yeah, you do lose, you do lose hybrid vigor with S1.
There isn't a hybrid vigor.
There is no hybrid.
You're breeding with your.
You can lose vigor.
Yes.
With S1s.
However, depending on it's it's it depends on how you compare it because there's lines that are old
clones that are slow.
And if you, if you make S1s of it, it'll make it look like you've given the line new vigor,
but it's just because you were growing an old, slow clone.
So it depends on how people look at it, but hybrid vigor, it like, like not so saying it
implies hybrid hybridizing.
And if it's an S1, it's selfing, not the way I look at, maybe this is a bad definition.
Because we could talk about how misused names are in, in, you know, people get breeding terms
from other areas and try to apply them to cannabis.
Yeah.
And it doesn't, it's not exactly a straight because we don't have the same kind of breeding
techniques, but generally speaking, hybrid vigor is when you take two P1 parents and cross them.
And in the hybrid, all of the dominant genes pop.
It's not just two P1 parents though.
It's two specifically different genotypes.
It has, it's not, they can't be similar in order to get, it has to be totally different
to get the hybrid vigor.
So, you know, a famous one would be, you know, I don't know, NL5 Hayes or something.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Would be one of very Indica with a very Sativa, very different lineages pops.
Right.
And so, and that's another thing too, is people don't like this.
And this is, this is what's like, if you look on some of the lineage stuff of like,
I'm going to cross Cushman's by apples and banana by this and that, like there's so much
incestuous stuff that's gone on because people have overused the same clones over and over
and over and over again.
Yeah.
Most of the most successful crosses are by crossing vastly different things from one
another.
Breeding today is a lot more of, I wonder if I can find my own slight variation on this
already popular theme.
Yeah.
Wouldn't you agree?
Yeah.
I'm not saying everyone, I'm not saying everyone, there's exceptions, but the majority is looking
for, this is already popular.
Maybe I can get, maybe the name and maybe the look and maybe the pictures will catch on.
Yeah.
And if I get one famous thing, you know, I'm not going to call them out, but like, look at what
finding Mac one did for, for cap.
Yeah.
You know, somebody finds a, what they consider to be a killer Fino in your stuff.
And all of a sudden the next power, however many seed drops you have sell out.
Yeah.
And there's hype around it.
Yeah.
But most people don't find their own stuff because they're not, um, they're not growing
their own stuff.
Yeah.
Honestly, like, uh, our buddy Caleb is one of the few people where you can just see years
and years and years of him popping his own seeds that he.
Yeah.
I'm going to answer this question real quick.
Because it's one I see a lot and it's, there's no steadfast answer to it.
It was from Nigel.
No friends.
How much phenotypic genotypic variation do you experience from S ones?
I've read a lot of contradicting information.
And the answer is it really depends on how worked one parent was.
If it's, if it's a self, how, how worked that clone was and how not worked the, the
pollen donor is.
Um, if, if, if it's a work line, let's say it's a, a, a deep chunk, let's go deep jump.
If it's a deep chunk and you S one deep chunk, you're not going to have very much variation
at all because it's a work line.
There's already very few phenotypes in the line that you selected the clone from.
Let's say you choose like Cushman's you, you S one, a phenotype of Cushman's.
Well, there's all kinds of bullshit in that.
I mean, it's, it's going to be variant to, to any degree, you know?
So that's, that's why there's no specific answer to how much variation is in an S one.
It just really depends on the parents.
And another way to put it.
And, uh, uh, Caleb talked about this before where it's like, let's say you were to S one
deep chunk and you were to give out a bunch of those seeds and let people make their own
selections because there's not much variation in that line.
The people's own selections, they're probably going to look a lot like deep chunk.
But he's, he's talked about like how the Mendo P that I, that I found has very, very wide
variation in, in the S ones, which leads us to believe that it might be an actual land
race.
Right.
Um, so you could, he's like, you know, you could give 50 or a hundred seeds to 20 people
and tell them, pick what they want.
And then if you had them two years later, I'll gather and bring the weed that they had
created.
It would look vastly different because people would be making their own choices.
And that's actually some of the stuff, even early on, like people like Mel Frank, that
sent Durbin to Holland or different things breeders will tell you, well, it was this
way when I had it.
Yeah.
But then I gave it to these guys and they made different choices than I would have.
Yeah.
And now it's not even remotely like what I preferred.
Yeah.
Because they made different choices than I did.
Sure.
I liked it.
And they made it all red hair and sweet.
Yeah.
Or, or this or that or whatever.
So, um, you know, it, uh, so S1, S1 is just a tool.
Like, these are all just, these are all just tools.
There's no, there's no like better way than another necessarily.
Um, they're all just like, based on what you're looking for, you know?
Yeah.
Um, are you looking for, you know, it's never really happened before, but like, are you
looking for like, I want to plant 10 acres and I want it to be uniform.
Something like as uniform as deep chunk would be very valuable for them.
Yeah, absolutely.
You know, something like, you know, but there's other, there's other lines that are all over
the place that wouldn't be very good for that.
But that line that's all over the place, it might be amazing to find a unique expression
that you can then clone and name.
And all of a sudden it becomes an elite.
And, and to add to that, a lot of people don't understand that when you select a clone,
from a, from a wide varied line, let's say it's you pop a thousand seats and it's the
only clone like it.
If you select that clone to breed, it may not be breeding true to the type that it is
because it was an outlier.
It may only show up one in 500 times in the F2 round.
So it doesn't necessarily mean because you pick that clone, it's always going to be like
that clone.
If that clone is an outlier, you are not going to run into that clone very often.
It'll be more often than you did in the F1, but however, it'll still not be very often.
It could be an odd combination of recessive traits.
Yep.
And just because it popped in that particular female doesn't mean it'll pop in its project.
Yeah.
Either.
Sorry.
That's all right.
And you know, people, there was a guy up there saying, get rid of all the anise, you know,
everybody has strong opinions about various flavors.
I don't think we should get rid of any flavor because everyone has different preferences.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You know, there was a time.
Don't say that in here because then Gene's going to think that I'm fucking shit talking
him and fucking all that shit.
No, there was a time.
More anise.
There was a time when, you know, like terpenoline and, you know, like,
you know, like terpenoline in, uh, in, uh, what's him a fuck, uh, you know, in Jack or
train wreck was loved.
It was certainly loved.
Yeah, it was absolutely loved.
And then it bred so true for itself that people got burned out on the terpenoline.
Yeah.
People fucking a man people like Cali O and all this citrus stuff came out and it was
hella popular for a minute and then it's like moderate potency and kind of one note
and it sort of faded from it sort of faded from the world a little bit.
Yeah.
And then, you know, the dab revolution happened, you know, with a nail started coming out and
all these accoutrements to be able to like smoke hash in a different way.
Yeah.
And fucking DNA comes out with Tangy.
Yeah.
And the most blown out terp that nobody wanted was new again.
And people were like, oh, this citrus is just phenomenal.
Oh my God.
I doped on this citrus.
Where did this come from?
Where 10 years before people would be like, oh, citrus.
No, no, no.
Yeah.
I don't want no fucking citrus.
I call that shit headache weed, man.
I always I was not a fan of Cali O or any kind of Tangy or any of that shit.
But what's interesting about that kind of stuff is when Tangy came out, you know, um,
because it came out in the first few years of sort of like the modern like hash dab revolution.
Yeah.
It's not very potent.
No, but it didn't matter.
As flower, you'd get bored of it pretty quickly.
Yeah.
But you turn it into BHO or you turn it like there wasn't rosin really.
Then you turn it into some kind of extract.
And now it goes from like 13% THC to 80.
Yeah.
And it gets everything's potent at that point, you know, and there was an there was another
aspect to where it's like a lot of times with extractions, not all those turps come
through strong.
Yeah.
But those citrus turps popped strong.
So all of a sudden they had, it's like bell bottoms coming back or something.
Yeah.
Like, you know, you, you couldn't give them away.
And then all of a sudden the next generation is like, this citrus is incredible.
Can we get more lemon?
Can we get more orange?
Can we get more tangerine?
Yeah.
And it's kind of faded.
Right?
Yeah.
I mean, we had our, our, our buddy, uh, our buddy Pip rocked that lemon G cut.
Yeah.
A lot, you know?
And so people, things go in and out of things go in and out of, in and out of flavor, you
know?
I was talking about that with Panda the other day, I was smoking some Georgia pie and I
had no, no fucking clue what it was like, what was in it.
But lemon G has this certain specific fucking flavor that runs through all of its progeny.
And it's this thing that like, for me, I could not scrape that flavor off my tongue
hard or fast enough, but I smoked that Georgia pie and you can immediately sense it in there,
but it's not listed in the genetics.
So I hope those people who have it out there, give it, give it a, give it a little flavor
puff.
And if you have some lemon G to compare it to, uh, uh, tell me if I'm right.
So, you know, and someone, someone was talking about just, just now, like they were talking
about how, uh, um, you know, uh, train wreck train wreck was kind of unique because it
was like, it was one of the first named clones and Humboldt.
Yeah.
It yielded really big people were all of a sudden going indoors and stuff and getting
big yields out of it.
Um, and you know, Jack Herrera becoming so popular, burned people out on the Terp for
probably 10 years.
Yeah.
And train wreck being just fucking everywhere for a while.
Yeah.
Train wreck and they just, it just gets burned out, you know?
And so, you know, flavors and Terp profiles come and go.
Yeah.
You know, uh, I, I don't really like, like for me, like, like that kind of citrus isn't
that popular.
Cause I think it's too one dimensional for me, but I do like the sweet citrus.
There's some of it where it's, it, it, it tastes like I opened my mouth and sprayed
orange cleaner on directly on my tongue.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's like a stringent.
Yeah.
That's how I feel about lemon G is it's just like having a lemon grow a dick and piss in
your mouth.
Yeah.
You know?
And so like, if you like sushi or whatever, like a citrus could be like a really good,
like, like pickled ginger, it could be like a really good palate cleanser before you smoke
something else.
But most people can't rock citrus all day long.
No, no, no, not me.
Anyways, they get burned out on it, but some people love it.
So it tends to like, you know, I mean, that's, that's kind of the thing where, um, I can't
remember who commented on it, but we were talking a bunch about skunk one in a previous
episode and there was an era where like they gypsy Nirvana and those different guys, they
all gave away skunk one as freebies.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
Because they had, because they had a shit ton of it and nobody wanted to buy it.
Nobody wanted skunk one.
Nobody, nobody, you couldn't sell it for shit.
So he's like, God, I got thousands of these things.
Maybe I'll at least just give them out as free or remember when they were, everyone
was giving out skunk Hayes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Or the skunk Hayes.
The thunk.
The thunk.
Yeah.
Thunk.
Yeah.
The thunk.
And then, you know, now all of a sudden people are like, Oh, what old rare skunk one can
you find?
Give me some of that old rare skunk one.
And there's people 15 years ago that you mean, you mean the shit that they were giving out
for free and nobody wanted.
Yeah.
And I'm not even dissing it.
No, it's just how it was.
It's just people, things go in and out of fashion.
Yeah.
You know?
And, you know, I mean, the blue flavor.
Does it taste like blueberries?
Yes.
Whoa.
I've never smoked weed that tasted like blueberries.
I want to get some more.
Yeah.
Right.
A good blueberry should taste like blueberries.
Yeah.
You know, and, and so, you know, super skunk is not still around.
Uh, I mean, from Santee, I just mean, like, like, there aren't what we know of for sure
as pure super skunk cuts.
We believe Jiesel is a, is, is there's a lot of stuff that's derived from it.
Yeah.
I think Jiesel is probably one of the closest, but yeah, we don't know if it's a hybrid of
super skunk technically.
Like we can't say we can look at it and be like, man, it really has a lot of super skunk
traits.
Yeah.
Extremely skunkoid in the way that it grows and the way that it this and the way that,
that, but maybe that's, maybe that's something that we should talk about.
Cause Matt and I talked about it when we were kind of like mapping out what we wanted to
chat is that every five or 10 years, uh, what you can get from seed reinvents itself.
And so there's all these distinct arrows.
Yeah.
And I mentioned it before on a, on a, on another thing, but we were, Matt and I were looking
through a friend's, um, freezer that he was getting rid of and it had an enormous amount
of seeds from like, Oh, eight to two to 2012.
Yeah.
And I would say 99% of them, if you wanted to buy a pack of it today, you couldn't get
it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
There was tons of, there was stuff from Mr.
And I, there was a, there was a few things here and there that you could get from the
same company, but for the most part, it was all like, but that stuff at the time was hella
popular.
Yeah.
Right.
Yeah.
It was everywhere back then, but now it was everywhere.
It was hella popular.
And then, you know, he talked about OG rascal OG rascal for three or four years.
You know, he had a bunch of good cuts and he was one of the first guys doing feminized
seed and he made a bunch of fire.
Yeah.
He even had a super skunk cut.
That was a, the 56 day super skunk.
I want to say something like that.
But you, you, you couldn't, you can't find that shit now.
Nope.
No, it doesn't exist.
So, so what happens is seeds, people talk, since he, since he still exists, but you,
you can't get anything like you would get from 90 cents.
No, nothing.
You can't get, you can't get nineties serious seats.
Yeah.
I mean, some of these people might get mad at me for saying it, but it's just like, it's
just not the way shit works.
It does.
It just doesn't work.
It's different.
The parents are different.
Maybe they had to reconstitute the line from seed, you know?
Maybe they outsource it to Spain.
Who knows?
Yeah.
Most of those outsourcer most, most seeding, most seeds are there until they're not there.
And then after, you know, 10 years or something like that, the only thing that exists might
be a cut or two.
Yeah.
Right.
Well, we're about almost at a hundred minutes.
So we'll start turning this down.
Yeah.
We're going in far.
Yeah.
Is there anything else you wanted to get in?
You know, I mean, this is a big topic, you know, I just thought that it would be good
for people to chat about.
There's a lot of misconceptions about what breeders are up to and what they're doing
and what their methods are and, and, and, and, you know all that.
And like breeding has evolved a lot and breeding also evolves based on competition and based
on what the customers want.
Yeah.
Right now, it's the customers drive it fully now it's because, because the prices are so
low on weed currently, I don't think that there is a, a, an option for breeders to try
to drive a market as much based on their own hype, their own, you know, like building a
brand, building the line.
It's not like it was.
No.
And I think there was a, when I was doing most of my breeding, there was, there wasn't
really American breeders.
There wasn't really an outlet for those kinds of seeds that I, you know, we were, we, we
wanted to be, but this was, it was too early.
Yeah.
And there was kind of, I would say there's probably like 10 year explosion of American
breeders and all kinds of people being able to jump in and be like, I'm going to make
crosses with this.
Yeah.
And that's kind of, I think we're coming to the tail end of that now.
Yeah, we definitely are.
People are having to figure out whole different ways of reinventing their companies
themselves, how seeds are sold, how they're marketed.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And, and, and just, you know, and on top of that, it's like, it was profitable for a
while.
Yeah.
And, and the profit is, is, you know, uh, profit is defined, you know, most of these
seed companies were all supported by a bunch of small and medium sized growers with extra
money in their pocket.
Yeah.
So as it becomes more centralized and it becomes more legalized, then there's less money
going around.
There's less desire to hunt through things.
Yeah.
Less ability.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And, and even, and even then too, it's like people today, if you want to start breeding
today, you're going to get a hodgepodge of plants that are a mix of everything that's
been popular in the last 15 years.
Big worm was a high water mark.
Once we're holding his dick picture, got like, that was the highest, that was the highest
point we ever got.
That's for damn sure.
I mean, you know, a lot of these, a lot of these people got famous for a minute.
Yeah.
In certain circles, you know?
Yeah.
Yeah.
You know, lucky dog, lucky dog is, is our, is our buddy.
You know, he, he uses a lot of real cuts.
Yeah.
And one of the best ways to be a good breeder, as Neville would say, is to have good, good
plants to work with.
Yeah.
You can be.
He knows good weed.
He's been around good weed forever.
That's a major advantage.
Yeah.
Knowing good weed, knowing good weed.
And, and honestly, um, maybe, uh, I always, I always get weirded out when I talk about
this, but maybe we could finish a little bit on this is that what's happened a lot with
IgE as we're on IgE is, uh, um, it's, it's become very visual.
Yeah.
Uh, breeding and people's desire for stuff has become extremely visual and extremely
visual and extremely testing based and extremely named based where 20 years ago, 15 years ago,
it was mostly effect based.
Yeah.
Right.
Things became popular because they had a great flavor, a great effect.
Yeah.
Uh, because most people couldn't see it.
Right.
And so people bred for effect and there's a, there's a corollary here where, and, uh, I
don't know, most people, I don't know if people know this or not, but pit bulls and like
Staffordshire terriers are basically the same breed, right?
Yeah.
Staffordshire terriers are bred for looks.
And back in the day when, when actual dog fighting was still allowed, pit bulls were
bred for what was called game.
Yeah.
Right.
And game was basically a, uh, I don't approve of dog breeding by the way, but it's a good
example.
Game was basically, um, uh, a complete disregard for its own health and a willingness to just
get crazy and fight to the death.
Yeah.
But you couldn't like, but much like with cannabis and smoking it, you can't see game.
Yeah.
Game isn't shoulder structure and chin and jaw and color.
None of that.
You have to find it in there.
So you can't tell if weed's going to knock your head off by looking at it.
No, you sure can't.
You know, there's a lot of ugly weed that hits me way, way harder than some of the
prettiest weed I've ever seen.
That tests at like 8% and it will knock your head off harder than a pretty good sours or
whatever they test in the low twenties.
Yeah, exactly.
You could get some purple punch that tests at 30% and I can't even tell him smoking weed.
Yeah.
And so there's a lot of, uh, as people have bred for looks and bed for testing.
Yeah.
They've lost that invisible effect.
Yeah.
People call it the entourage effect.
They think, oh, it's some combination of THC and turps and this and that and the alls or
whatever.
We don't really know what it's all there yet.
Yeah.
You know, and, but we know that, but people used to breed for effect and people used to
hold onto things that had unique effects and cookies and these, and these types of things
started ushering in a wave and IgE is super to blame, um, for, you know, for looks.
Yeah.
It looks gorgeous, you know, oh, this amazing Tropicana cookies.
It looks incredible.
What a great job.
And then it doesn't get me high.
And then you smoke it.
You're like, fucking Tangy mother.
Yeah.
I mean, like, you know, who wants a girlfriend that's like a true 10, but she's mean to you,
you know, I mean, like, you know, it's like, that's, that's no fun either.
You know, it's like, oh yeah, she looks amazing.
You're so lucky.
And like, oh no, not when the door closes, she's totally rude.
And she sucks every dude's dick.
Yeah.
She cheats on me and she treats and she's hella mean.
She's gorgeous.
Yeah.
You know?
And so there's a lot of bland weed right now.
There's a lot of very attractive, very bland weed.
Yeah.
A lot of blackberry cush out there.
Lot of bland weed.
Yeah.
And so, you know, uh, you know, smoking for effect effect is invisible.
You can't, you don't know it till you try it.
There's nothing, there's no testing.
You know, maybe we get chimera on here and he totally disagree with me and make me look foolish,
but I still think that the best test is the smoke test.
Yeah.
Robots can't smoke weed.
And I'll go to, I'll go to bat for that.
I don't care.
Because at the end result, what matters is how it affects me.
Yeah.
Or you.
Yeah.
But one of us, you know, yeah, it's like, it's, it's whole, it's our whole desire for it is for
it to, I want it to work good and taste good.
Yeah.
Those are the top two things for me.
Yeah.
Second, affecting flavor.
Now, if I can get great yield and I can get great looks and I can get all this other stuff.
Great.
Yeah.
You know, but it's not, I'd rather have it taste, taste and work phenomenal.
Yeah.
Because in a joint, you know, it looks like a white P a white or a tan piece of paper, right?
Yeah, exactly.
Exactly.
In a bong rip and a, you know, I mean, what is it, you know, you extract it.
You don't even know what it looks like.
Now it's goo.
Yeah.
All, all, all extractions look the same to me.
I've never understood.
I mean, there's different types or whatever.
Oh yeah.
I mean, in general, it's all a fucking extract.
You're looking at goo or you're looking at.
It's all different types of goo.
So it's like, you know, at that, at that point, uh, what did, uh, what did a chimera call it?
You're a resin farmer.
Yeah, that's right.
You're farming resin.
You know, the flower content and stuff like that.
Um, you know, it doesn't really matter.
So I'm big on effect.
Yeah.
But effect doesn't come through.
I G it's a lot harder.
It's a lot harder.
It's a lot harder to build rep off effect because you actually have to smoke it.
Yeah.
Where it's not something test results can tell you by looking at the test results.
Unfortunately, no, not yet.
At least we can't, you know, but tomorrow burner and, and Chris compound could come
out with the new, new, and it could be all glistening and perfect lighting and professional
camera work and all that shit.
And everyone would, Ooh, and ah, this and that nobody even knows if it's any good.
Yeah.
Maybe it's effect is boring.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I remember a specific example that I won't say, but yeah.
Yeah.
You know, so I just wanted to throw that out there at the end.
If we're going to talk about all that is that, you know, breed for what's important.
Yeah.
The most important thing is effect.
Right.
Yeah.
Because that's what you're, that's how it affects you.
Yeah.
And it doesn't affect everyone the same.
So, you know, try to smoke it with a decent variety of friends and see what they think too.
That's how you find winners.
That's how you find real keepers in my opinion.
And that's, and to be honest, that's the reason why, you know, some, like a lot of these things
from 20 years ago are going to have their day in the sun again.
I hope so.
Because, because we'll look at all the people right now coming out with, I have real sour.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's true.
That's a good point.
Good point.
You know, look at how many people still breed with cush.
Yeah.
Look at how many, you know, it's like, look at how many people on these got like some
friend, you know, are breeding with NL five hazes and stuff like, yeah, she has lasting power.
Yeah.
You know, where will purple punch be in 10 years?
I hope everywhere.
I love that.
Well, anyway, yeah.
All right.
I guess we're, you know, you're going to plug anything.
Yeah.
Go check out the website, right?
It's eco.com.
We've got a breeders packs up.
We've got the spray up.
Go check out speakeasy.
Speakeasy.
Seabank.com and breeders syndicate has a bunch of new episodes.
We've been dropping up some of its old content, but newer episodes.
And some of them kind of fallen in the, in the unhearable range, meaning like they just
kind of disappeared.
Now they're back up.
Go check them out.
Go listen to them.
Go support.
Please like and review, or even if you don't like it, leave a review and say, I suck.
Do whatever.
Just go interact with it.
Hopefully, hopefully you like it.
Oh, radio.
Yeah.
That outlet behind me.
It's a, it's a, I don't know why there's some interesting design choices in this house.
I got Alex gray canvas behind me.
There you go.
It's, it's an improvement from the, from the wall that I had before, but yeah, we're going
to throw these up on podcast too.
We're going to try to do them every Friday and just talk about random stuff.
So you can always hit up me or Matt with subject matter or ideas that you might want to get
talked about at length.
Um, and, oh yeah.
Join the, the Patreon Bridger syndicate, Patreon, like a lot of you asking for not sort of a
preview is his approval list is miles long.
So the best way to talk to not so is on the breeder syndicate, Patreon go join.
And you know, we're trying to do this thing where we talk about stuff that mostly isn't
about us and we're not trying to like self promote or anything.
We're just trying to get a wide variety of weed information out there and hopefully people
like it.
So people use it, learn it, learn for themselves how to be critical thinkers.
We had a, we had a, a too long of a break, but we're back at it and we're going to try
to be pumping this stuff out.
Absolutely.
Yep.
So everybody have a real good night.
Thanks for your Friday.
Peace.
Lots of love everyone.
Bye.
