Welcome to Breeder Syndicate 2.0 where we explore the history of a clandestine scene.
Researching everything from cannabis strain history, old smuggling tales from
the first-person perspective, to breeding science and news on current subculture.
I'm your host Matthew and I'll occasionally be joined by my homie NotSoDog,
breeder and grower from Mendocino, to speak on these subjects and sometimes
interview other participants. Our goal is to document this history before it's
written by corporations and others who just weren't there. Let's start righting
some wrongs. Welcome to the underground.
Welcome to Breeder Syndicate. I'm here with my buddy HighEndLonesome and
Santa Cruz Goat Farm, Pac, and of course NotSoDog. We're gonna talk about some of
our upcoming 420 stuff we got going on for the for the site and we're gonna
talk about some of their history and like some of their likes, wants, needs,
desires in cannabis. These guys have been at it a long time and have a lot to offer
and a lot to say. This has been a long chase for both of them so it's kind of
cool we get to get them both at once at the same time. I think we're gonna go
over some of the party too, like what we saw at the party, what we liked, didn't,
from what we saw at the party, etc. They both have handy avatars. They do.
All right, so let's start off. HighEndLonesome, let's talk about some of
your new lines that you have coming out. We have of course have your Appalachia
which is pretty well known for many reasons. Can you talk about it a little
bit? Yeah, so that's a F3 I did. I went back and I had actually worked the line
to F5 and I wasn't really happy with with what I had selected so I went back
to the F2s. I popped 50 of them. I selected two males and three females
and kind of let them go at it. I wanted more of the green crack side coming
through on the turps. You know one thing you hear a lot about Appalachia is about
like the creamy milky stuff coming through in crosses. I'm more a
fan of the tropical side of the green crack. Same. That creaminess kind of came
through the Trace Dog male that I used. All of those that I popped, they were
very potent like the females but they didn't have the rankness that you
would expect with a Chem D. Yeah, how did that cross to the Appalachia? Like did
none of the rankness really crossed over in the out crosses? Did you see it
in different generations? Any of it? Not a ton, no. It was more of like a
sweet cream. You know you see it in Stardogs. I see it in Chem 4 too. It's
kind of like a bit sweeter. Not as nasty. Not as like disgusting garbage as Chem D.
But yeah, so that's kind of what I did. I wanted to go back to the F3,
kind of narrow it down instead of keeping it wide open. Narrow it down to
what I wanted out of it, what I liked. What did you like about the green
crack that made you want to choose that as a mom? Or was it just like one of the
moms that you happen to have in the room when you were doing the run? Like what was specifically going on in your mind?
Well, originally when I did it I was doing quite a bit of outdoor on the East
Coast, probably middle 2000s. And green crack performed extremely well outside.
It was, except it needed some staking, which you know when you're
gorilla growing, you can't do, you can't gorilla. You can't, you know. It's a
pain in the ass. So I wanted to put it on a little bit more robust
frame. I'd had Chem D for a little bit at that point. You know, I was smoking it a lot
and that's what I wanted to smoke. But the plants were also extremely robust.
So I crossed it to green crack, purple urchel, Chem 4, Chem D, an Acapulco
gold cut that I had at the time, and abusive Oji Kush. Oh no shit. Yeah.
How's that Acapulco gold cross, dude? I never grew that one. I gave them all out to friends and I
never really heard anything back about that. The only two that have any kind of
lasting value are the, of course, the green crack cross and the purple urchel cross.
Yeah. And you said there was a Chem 4 Trey dog too, right?
Yes. Yeah. Yep. I did that as well. And you know, what I found in it was very similar to
Stardog. There was some really nice Chem type plants in there and, you know, some stuff that
wasn't, wasn't as ranked, you know, some, some of that creamy sweetness coming through, but still,
you know, extremely good quality smoking plants. Do you think you got what you wanted out
initially out of the Trey dog? I kind of wish I had gone back through some F2s. I made a few F2s,
but I never really pursued it. And you know, at this point the seeds are no longer viable,
unfortunately. But it's cool on there's, you know, I feel like if you F2 that you'd open up a lot of
stuff. Yeah. I mean, Trey's dog and Chem 4 is kind of like your own version of Stardog.
Uh, yeah. Right. Yeah. I mean, isn't Trey's dog isn't, I mean, it's, it'd be a different male
or it'd be a different selection from the line. Yeah. Yeah. It was, um, I just made a kind of
personal amount of them to go through. It was like a, I always like to keep like a
stash of seeds. Yeah. And all my cuts and just like, you know, I'm, you know,
just a nobody floating around out there. I can have something to go back to, to look through,
even, even plants that I don't like. I'll, I usually will pollinate them before I drop them.
Yeah. Cause you just never know, like something down the line might trigger that sense membrane.
You're like, I really wish I had that. Even though at the time it doesn't even seem
viable or feasible for sure. Yep. Yep. And just, you know, it's fun to waste all that space.
Yeah. Right. And energy and time. Time, money.
One thing I thought about before, before we get too far away from it, it's just a point
I might make, which is that, uh, it's really cool. If you're doing a multi-stage breeding thing
to save seeds from every stage of it. Right. So that way, if you feel like you screw up,
which is often you can go back and be like, Oh, I'd want to redo it. So he was just talking about,
I took it to F5 and I didn't really like some of the direction that it went. So I, then I went back
all the way, a few generations and started taking it a different direction. You know, I hear about
that. Like people say they do that all the time, but there is very rarely any proof of anyone ever
doing that. We're like, you've seen it. You've seen the seeds. They were out. There's been X
amount of years between it. And you know that that's possible. And I actually have the F5s of
Appalachia here from him. So I know he took it to F5 and went back. And I think that's, that's
pretty commendable. Cause you just don't see it very often. Yeah. I also think like too, like the
era that, that High and Lonesome is talking about, it was, I think it was more common for people to
like play around and work their own little lines a bit. It was way before there was like a bunch of
like American seed sales or anything like that happening. So now it's kind of like a, you make
seeds and it's a one-off and they exist until they don't exist anymore. Yeah. But then I think it was
a little bit more common, you know, at least amongst like weed nerds to like, you know, you
make something and then it kind of becomes the base of what you're doing and you cross it to
this and you cross it to that. And then, you know, it, it, and a lot of it, like you was saying,
it's all about like, I'm breeding for personal smoke. Yeah. Oh yeah. Which gives you, it gives
you a lot more freedom than if you're breeding for the market because you're just breeding for
things that you like. No, it all started, you know, the whole, even just growing, it started by
trying to make sure I had the best quality weed. Yeah.
And I think that's the best way to breed. Yeah. I mean, I mean, it's, it's, it's, you're not being
true to yourself if you're not, because how are you going to enjoy the smoke and like go through
tons of different, you know, examples and not enjoy it and pick a keeper that you don't enjoy.
That's really hard to do. Yeah. You want to be stoked on what you're doing. Right. Yeah. You can
lose a lot of, a lot of passion for something real fast by, by cheapening it that way. In my
opinion. I mean, there's some people out there that like all their phenos and stuff that they,
they get found, get found by other people because those breeders don't crack them themselves.
Oh yeah. They make them, name them, package them, sell them. And then they find out through others,
whether or not anything good happened. Oh yeah. And I would say that's kind of become the standard
these days a little bit, but in the era that High and Lonesome is talking about, which is,
you know, 15 plus years ago or whatever, I don't think that was the standard then.
No, you can get rid of anything back then. Oh yeah. And before we stray too far, I do want to
ask, cause I know this is going to be the number one question people want to know. When did you
meet B, Bodie? And when did he acquire the Appalachia from you to work?
So he and I had been, you know, chatting and exchanging seeds on, I think it might have
originally been IC Mag, but probably 06-ish. You know, he'd send me a few things he made. I'd send
him a few things I made. And I, when I did the Trace Dog crosses, I believe I sent all of them
to him just for him to check out. And I didn't even know he had popped any until he
hit me up asking if it was okay if he released some seeds that he had made with the Appalachia.
I think, you know, I'm not sure it was something that he meant to do, but that's just kind of how
it worked out. And he made some really cool stuff. And I mean, people are still popping it. People
are still passing out cuts from those seeds. It was definitely a very comprehensive job he did of
crossing it to everything relevant at that time. I know it's a very common sentiment that a lot
of people feel that some of their favorite stuff came from that, you know, like the Appalachia
crosses. And one of my favorite moments ever in life was being able to watch you and Bodie meet
for the first time and then ride away in the sunset. How sweet is that, dude? Together?
Yeah, he's a hell of a nice guy. Yeah. That was one of those people that, you know,
you meet him in person and he's actually genuine, you know, it's a rare thing, but he's
as nice as he comes off and just a hell of a cool guy.
Yeah. You know, at, you know, we were all holding hands, staring out the windows. You guys drove off.
Too bad it wasn't into the sunset, you know.
Right. It was just almost a little bit past sunrise.
I think everybody has a glow going on though.
Yeah. Yeah. I had a nice pregnant glow the next morning.
So, Pat, let's talk about some of your stuff, dude. Like you kind of popped out of the woodworks
with some old cuts. You have an old Afghan cut that you work with. You work with a lot of train
wreck stuff. One of your big releases, your first big drop was a train wreck reversal
and you hit a few things. Do you want to talk about some of that?
Sure, man. You know, where do I begin? You know, I've always kind of had interest in genetics,
you know, just growing over the years and what have you. But initially, when I got into the
game, it was all clones for me, you know, and my crew. And so, you know, you come across the
occasional seed pack or somebody, you know, like we shoot up to, where is it, up to BC and grab
things once in a while. Not beasters, but, you know, whatever seeds I had hidden in the corners
up there in gas lamp area. So, you know, as much as seeds were available and like Natsu has told
stories, you know, a lot of that was going on down south from where I was at that point. I was,
where I'm thinking is when I was living up in Humboldt, up in the northern part of the county,
you know, seeds were prolific down there, right? There was a reason that generations of people,
you know, breeding and whatnot, but clones are just so accessible back in the day that there
wasn't really a need to go hunting and try to find whatever. So it always kind of been on my
radar, but it never been necessarily something I turned towards. And then, you know, being in the
game long enough, you come across certain cuts that you just fall in love with, even if they
fall out of style and what have you. And, you know, I caught on pretty quick in the 2000s,
you know, to the kind of turnover of things, you know, you'd see something just be prolific and
then would disappear and you wouldn't see it again. And so I determined that I would have to
hold on to some of these things and see where that goes. And so just, you know, years pass and all of
a sudden you become this keeper of whatever the hell you thought was good from way back when.
And so that's kind of in terms of just what my, you know, the way my path was laid out with the
whole grind scene. So, you know, fast forward to now, you know, I've always been on the DL for the
most part with what I do and I didn't really have a big intention of riding the wave into the legal
market and try to go too heavy there. But- I like your choice of words there.
Riding the wave? Yeah, riding the wave, right? I didn't feel like, yeah, I was not,
did not have my board out. I wasn't ready to go that way. And so I decided, well, you know,
hey man, this is part of my life, right? I'm not, you know, just move on. It's growing as my therapy.
But I also am kind of bored here and I don't feel like living by the algorithm of the garden,
so to speak, like I had for so many years and I needed some kind of pivot, right? So
just like anything, you know, considered doing that for years, but played around, but then,
you know, come the time that I'm starting to get real bored, not wanting to move forward,
growing weight anymore. I thought, you know, this is that right time to have fun, right? And get
into the genetic side of things. Yeah. And so what do I do? You know, I just kind of took what I had
in my armory and started messing around and here we are. How'd you find the crew in the first place?
It's a good question. This crew right here, this crew, I came across, I came across you guys,
you know, unlike some of the other cats in this field, like I stayed true to trying to
stay under the radar, so I never got onto the forums back in the day. And I mean, not so in those,
we, you know, send people to go buy your supplies at the store and not have your license plate get
a tag or whatever. So I've just kind of always abided by that code and never got onto the forums
and then IG comes around, I would say maybe 2017, 16, 17, 18, something like that. And
started thinking about reversals and like, Hey man, I got this, this T-dub cut and, you know,
I want to see, I want to open her up and see what happens. And so I started paying attention. And as
matter of fact, I got in touch with Brian over there at Radio Ridge.
Oh, okay.
And asked him, Hey man, what's the deal? You know, who's, who's the go-to here? And
he put your name on it, get ahold of Matt and here's my last number. See what's up. Talk to him.
And
I must not have liked your ass. Jesus.
Yeah, he's like, fuck this guy. I'm going to send him to Matt.
This guy sucks.
Yeah, this dude's a kook. Here we go, Matt. So, so anyway, yeah, long story short, that's how I
got in. And then, you know, he vouched for me in terms of being somebody really good at the
He vouched for me in terms of being somebody relatively solid in the field or whatever.
You know what, for me, what it was.
Which I appreciate by the way.
You had, you said you had blue dream, right? And for, ever since I've lost that cut, I've had
people telling me, I got, I got that cut. Don't worry. I got it. And not once has anyone ever
been able to show me, but of it, I've seen pictures of stuff that look just like it,
but when I would get it, it would smell like fucking flow or something like that. You know,
it just was, it looked just like it. And then he brought it down and I was like, holy shit.
Not only does he have real blue dream, he has train wreck too. These are little time capsules.
It wasn't just that it was how well they were grown, how well they were cured.
All of it, it was all, it hit all the points. And I was like, God, this guy cares about his
fucking weed a lot. You know, he cares about good weed. And that's kind of where I realized
like this, this is legit. I want to see where this dude's, what the, what this dude's story is.
And without going into detail, too much detail, obviously you come from like the surf background,
right? Yeah. You could say that. I mean, central coast, coastal life. Yeah, for sure. I mean,
I'm not, I'm not a bitch. I'm not a big surfer. I was a skater snowboarder kind of.
But that was a part of your culture who you hung out, the kind of group, you know,
why you would have had access to these certain clones in the first place.
Yeah. It's definitely tied in, it's tied into the whole lifestyle of just, you know, growing up in
the, in the nineties over here in the central coast, like you were getting away from it. You
couldn't find weed. You found a surfer, but yeah, you know, I was, I was selling the weed to the
surfers. So, you know, and surfers usually had a pretty good choice of weed back then. Like a lot
of them would travel around the world, get some of the best weed on earth. So to have it, having
the kind of clientele you did without being specific, it, I learned, you know, that you had to
perform better than others to have the kind of clientele you did at the time, which I took
notice of and why, why I realized you, you had gotten so good at curing and drying and all that
other stuff. Cause they were, they were pretty high end clientele. Well, and they're pretty picky,
man. You know what I mean? Their dads were growers and they grew up in the whole scene and
they're around the world. Yeah. So you can't, you can't bring swag to those dudes and be like,
yeah, I want a good price for this. It's just not going to happen. No, no, you'll be the last
number they call. One thing maybe I should interject is like, since Hyan Lonesome was
talking about green crack and now we're talking with Pac about Blue Dream and Trainwreck is that
there's some of these things that like, they became famous long enough ago and then kind of
fell out of favor long enough ago that people probably mostly only hear legends about them
to some degree. And a lot of people like Matt was saying, get fakes or, you know,
or get it poorly grown for whatever reason. Seed versions where they use the name.
One of the things that sucks about that is that often people talk about why they got burned out
on a certain cut, not why that cut had lasting fans to begin with. Yeah. You know? And I think
with Bolt, with the three things I just named with, you know, green crack or with, uh, you know,
Trainwreck or Blue Dream, all three of those, you know, uh, there's a reason there's, there's
a bunch of reasons why they got popular and people really enjoyed them. Yeah. And then they, um, you
know, they ended up getting burned out, you know, because people were growing huge amounts of it.
And once huge amounts of it start growing, a lot of people start doing it poorly, you know? And,
and then all of a sudden it gets a bad reputation and then something moves on and people lose track
of the quality. And like you were saying, like maybe only a few people end up holding onto it
and then people are surprised at how good this thing they've heard of, but maybe in derogatory
terms, you know, and I don't mean, you know, I just like, there was a lot of like when, when
High and Lonesome was talking, I was thinking about how, you know, like basically once people
in like Grass Valley and certain other regions got green crack and started growing seven to 10
pound outdoor plants, that kind of like midsy green crack is what blew, got, turned people away
from it. But it became accessible, but you know, green crack is, you know, in extracts and something
like that, it actually has a bunch of really nice turps. It has a bunch of really nice structure to
it. It has a very like cool flavor done well, you know? Yeah. Indoor 70 day green crack is tough to
beat. It's really good. Like, yeah. I'm looking so forward to it. Right. And you just said,
what out, the other thing that happens to people is they grow it too big and then they end up
taking it 10 or 12 days early. Cause it's, it's done enough to pass. Oh yeah. Makes all the
difference too. So then the market gets flooded with a bunch of, you know, I mean, it definitely
happened with green crack. It definitely both happened with Blue Dream and Trainwreck. All
three sort of suffered the same fate in that they could be enough of a production plant
that they got overproduced. And people thought the production version was the version.
When in reality, I think Blue Dream took a bigger hit. I think Blue Dream took a much bigger hit
than just that. Um, green crack didn't because I knew who was, who was releasing seeds of it and
who wasn't. And there weren't a lot of seeds released to green crack. There weren't like
green crack seeds out there you could buy in mass, you know, but Blue Dream, the second that
thing kicked off, we had Emerald Triangle Seeds, which was, I believe made in Spain. Um, there was
a, you had Humboldt Seeds. You had all these different companies releasing their versions of
what Blue Dream was, which was whatever bulk Spanish company was pushing out as their blueberry
haze. And that's what cuts got passed around as Blue Dream. 99%. I'm saying, yeah, yeah, exactly.
Yeah. I'm convinced H&L that like in the, in the Dab era, uh, green crack has been named, renamed
papaya. A lot of, a lot of those like tropical turps and stuff like that. Like they would never
call it a green crack extract. Right. But they'd have some high end green crack rosin and they'd be
like, Ooh, this is the papaya. Yeah. Papaya, you know, some tropical fruity. This is
and not to say that not so has any knowledge that the papaya strain out there from the specific
company is green crack. He's saying that's a probably what happens. Oh, you know, even 15
years ago when people didn't want to buy green crack around here, it went as mango. It went as
papaya. It went, you know, yeah, yeah. It just, you know, that happens. Yeah. There's half a
dozen names for blue dream. Oh yeah. And maybe even more that got made because people got blown
out on it and they're like, Oh, this isn't that this is blue dragon. Yeah. This is, you know,
it reminds me of your Barry white story. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it's true. And, uh, and, but,
you know, the point that I'll, I'll scroll back on is that if you take somebody who knows the
strain, like say pack or high and lonesome and they grow a nice two, three, four, six ounce
plant, either in a greenhouse or in an indoor environment, people are going to be blown away
by how good it is. Oh yeah. Blue with the party away. I think people have forgotten
why those things got so popular in the first place. And they only think they got popular because
you could get an eight pound outdoor plant that was bigger. Yeah. And that's not what got them
popular in the beginning at all. It's just not. Yeah. It was a grow in somebody's closet.
I mean a three ounce, a three ounce green crack plant is delicious. Yeah, it really is. You know,
I think a four ounce blue dream is a damn delicious, especially how long did you take
impact this last time? Uh, for the party, I pulled it early actually. Yeah, I know it's weird. I
think I pulled it at 60, 60, 61 days maybe. And it was super Berry for me. Yeah, it was nice.
That was the best I've ever had for sure. Yeah. Yeah. That was killer.
I have when you grow a cut for, you know, 15, you better, you better put out some work and some good
work after 20 years. I mean really what, one of the things I, you know, I remember talking to CSI
about this probably, I don't know, eight years ago or something where in his mind, going back to
what pack was saying about where he was up in Humboldt and stuff, uh, train wreck was one of
the first named clones that really spread around the growing community deeply in that zone. Like
there was lots of seeds and there was lots of name stuff that got like here and there it popped up,
but like train wreck really kind of had its moment. Hey man, that was the first stream that
you started seeing people wear t-shirts with the name train wreck across the front.
Oh really? I never seen the shirts. Oh, for sure. Yeah. Humboldt clothing company. I think it was
up in, up in Arcata, uh, 2001, something like that. They, they got smart and started marketing
strains on shirts and there weren't many, but train wreck was the one that was like, you know,
what you saw. Perfect. And you're right. And you know what? Uh, we never referred to it or at least
my crew being up in Arcata, it was never the Arcata train wreck until years later, you know,
as a, as a signifier, you know, in terms of where it came from, it was just train,
it was T-dub or train wreck. Yeah. Yeah. I think that popped up on the forums as a designator,
you know, once, once it started to be a few fake cuts and, you know, people would talk a lot about
the, you know, this is the Arcata cut or this is the E32. Yeah. E32 crew or whatever.
That's even the lemon wreck was another one that was floating around at that point.
Yeah. It seemed to pop up once, uh, people started releasing seeds. I think the Dutch
started, started messing with it and, uh, what horse was it? It was talking to woodhorse. Yeah.
Talking woodhorse, the big train. I remember using name, dropping him again, but I remember when,
even though they're discredited when Phylos first came out or something,
a CSI called me up and he goes, do you want to know what, uh, what DNA's, uh,
lemon skunk tests as, and I was all what, and he's all green crack.
Oh yeah. Unfortunately. Yeah. I mean like, it kind of makes sense. Like if they're both skunk one,
they would kind of like maybe show up in some range together. No, but I just think like there's,
you know, and train wreck also, the other thing train wreck got known for was that it was the,
like, but long before anyone used the word terpeneline, um, you know, uh, train wreck turps.
Yeah, exactly. Yeah. It got, it got kind of a moniker of like, oh, people didn't know what
that terp was, but train wreck was famous and well-known. I'm like, oh, this kind of smells
like train wreck to me. Yeah. It's got a train wreck smell. It's got the Jack runs that Jack,
the J one is track. That's like train wreck. Isn't it? Jack smell. Yeah. Yep. But, but, you
know, but those it's, so it's kind of like, it's, it's almost a bad thing. I don't want to say it's
almost a bad thing, but any strain that has the potential to be blown out huge has the potential
to get a bad reputation because people only try it blown out huge, not dried, right. Not cured.
Like Matt was saying about packs ability to dry it and cure it and treat it nicely.
Um, and so sometimes even getting a good example of what made something famous can be harder.
Yeah, sure. And I'll tell you what, man, you know, there's, there's times where I put it out
and I won't smoke that shit. Cause I'm like, no, that's not, no, I don't want to share that
with somebody. Yeah, for sure. It's not, Oh yeah. We all have those runs.
Our buddy, uh, our, you know, we had some friends of ours, the gathering that we had or whatever
that are quite a bit younger than us. And it was really cool to have them try some of the classics
that had faded from popularity, like long before they came onto the scene.
Yeah. That was really neat for me, actually.
Yeah. It was, that's where I noticed like the kids love blue dream. You're like,
this is blue dream. What? This is what it's like. What were people talking about?
Just watching the HMO push train wreck on poor local man. I was dying.
Oh my God. How'd that go? I didn't see that part.
Yeah. He was kind of nodding off and I was like, dude, it's 10 o'clock, man. I'm way older than
you. You need to go take a train wreck long hit. So he went,
this is where, this is right before I put a Sharpie in his pocket to wake him up.
I was listening to an interview that packet did not very long ago last week or something.
Yeah. And I remember you talking about like train wreck was the weed that like you pulled some
bong rips right before you had to do a bunch of work. It was get after it weed, it gave you that
buzz where you felt like you could get some shit done. Absolutely. And particularly so much so if
you pull it a little bit early, like you can train wrecks has such a range of when you can pull it
and what you want to get off of it. Sure does. You pull it a little bit early and it's just so
much more speedy. I feel like that's part of what gave it its reputation of big blown out plants
pulled it 50 days because it looks good enough at 50 days. It's seven weeks you can yank it.
That's why green crack was big with us because like you pound it out.
It's all about getting a supplement of them in a year if you're doing indoor.
And that's another key why people end up getting feel like something's not that great.
I can't even tell you how much sour diesel in Mendocino County was pulled as soon as it was
good enough to go. Oh yeah. Like it probably should have gone into the mid seventies and it
hit 60 and they're like it's ready. Hey man, you're not doing it for the love at that point
though. You know what I'm saying? No I get it but you know but it's like people just don't,
I don't think people see like that's the part about love that I don't think people get
where it's like you know if you it's hard to come across people that know how to grow it the right
way that will take it the right amount of time that'll dry it and cure it the right way so you
get that full effect. There's a lot of it's good enough to go. Yeah. And it's good enough for the
buyer won't reject it. Hey man I'll tell you what I can't say I'm not guilty of that in my past.
You know especially at certain points in time where it was more economically feasible than
you know just for the love but I think when you stay in it long enough at least for me it's like
you kind of mature into your grower status right like I started off reading high times I want to
grow everything I got to get it all whatever but then you start to kind of not only dial in the
plant but you dial in your style. Yeah and you dial in your life. You mature. It was a different
world to you know consumers there wasn't you know as many connoisseurs people they wanted a bag of
weed and you know they wanted to be pretty and taste good and you know if you could accomplish
that and then get a buzz it was all good. To be fair like if I was doing something outside
like any of the things we just mentioned and it was fall I could probably let it go if I got good
weather until it was perfect right. Yeah but if I'm depping it and it's 90 to 100 degrees every
day in Mendo I'm going to hit a point where it's all downhill from here and I might not get that
last five to seven days that I would prefer out of it because it's going to go south because it's 98
and it's hot and the flowers the calyxes are going to start to yellow it's going to start to get
beat up. I gotta pay my rent you know. Yeah yeah you know here we had we had hurricanes every fall
you know or most every fall and so you know in October you might get you know six inches of rain
in a week. You know it just it can be terrible and so sometimes it was good enough to go October
one you know it's done. I try to explain that to people all the time when it comes to like nature
farming you know where you're using using the sun or whatever that all downhill from here is an
important decision to come to. Yeah it is. It really is key because you can you can be like
oh I can make it better and then you're like I just made it worse. I mean one of the reasons one
of the reasons why I stuck to indoor growing because you know you get to play god in terms of
how long something's going to go and I mean obviously you know there's there's good and bad
with both but it's it's an interesting distinction because as an indoor grower mainly you know that
wasn't a consideration right what time of the year it was unless you know I didn't have the right kind
of insulation in the place that I'm growing or whatnot. Sure yeah here we used I mean you know
indoor you know not that a lot of people wouldn't go outside or whatever but the problem up here was
that it got so hot and dry we always used to call it summer bud. Yeah same same here like you knew
that you knew the indoor summer bud even just because it was like you cannot keep your shit
under 100. Just because it's like people were running many splits back in the day you know.
Many splits didn't we didn't you know it didn't that kind of technology is all the stuff that's
common now I don't think people realized how slowly we had some of us adopted it. Remember
how hot the lights were? Oh yeah. When you didn't use the shields would they be hanging and you'd
walk by them and smell your skin burning off. Matt you know how many burns out my elbows from running
like octagons where I had three exposed bulbs hanging in the middle and you had to get in there
to do whatever. That was always so brutal. Dude like you know I always heard these wives tales
that don't help most shit. I remember seeing my skin hanging off a bulb and sizzling and it being just fine
and it was cooking the skin just fine it didn't explode but I always heard like yeah don't get
your finger oils on that bulb it'll blow up. So I was always always water yeah. I don't know people
like finger oils like so I'd always like screw them in all careful like. Oh yeah I'd always grab
yeah I'd grab a hand towel and screw it in because I didn't want to. 100%.
Yeah yeah yeah. You polish them before you turn them on all that. Oh yeah yeah don't need them
exploding. I don't know maybe it was true. There was a couple times in life where like they hit
the top of my ear. That was a pretty sensitive spot. Yeah. I'm a tall guy you know and so yeah
me too. You're moving around and you're trying to. I have that issue too yeah. You know but yeah
but one of the things that we should mention too is that you know and I don't know High
and Lonesome if you want to talk about this but I would imagine that when you were crossing Trace
Dog to you know to Green Crack maybe you could talk for a minute about like something that I'm
always interested in which is like what you were hoping each parent was going to bring to the
children. Yeah well you know basically the only issues I had with Green Crack were the structure
of the plant and then the structure and the high of the plant. So I wanted to get something with
a little bit more robust structure and something that you know had a little more not depth to the
high because I think the character of Green Crack is really nice but just something that
maybe hit you a little bit harder behind the eyes. Yeah it's still a skunk one high at the end of the
day. Yeah I mean yeah yeah I mean Green Crack in my opinion is just skunk one. It's probably my
favorite. Yeah a really good one. It's definitely my favorite of the skunk one type plants. By a big
margin. Yeah yeah you know cheese is great. I have run that several times over the years. I just
I can't smoke it but so much but something about the like rotten mango Green Crack is just so
appealing. And another one of your really well-known cuts and this is probably what I knew you best for
and one of the cuts I chased the longest was the poodle nuts cut. Can you talk a little bit
about that? Who selected the cut? Where it came from? etc. Yes that was it was selected by a friend
of mine from IC. He went by 40 grit and then I think after that 40 ounce. Several names over
the years but yeah he was blowing up warehouses of Urkel before anybody else. He always had
the most dialed in Urkel. His shit you know I remember smoking his weed and it just being
it was like slingshot ammo. It was dense but it wasn't you know blown out. It was like perfect
and his problem was he was running warehouses of Urkel. He needed something with some hybrid vigor
and he and I used to bullshit a bunch. So you know that was one that when I was making those crosses
I kind of pollinated the Urkel just to see if it was any more vigorous. So I you know once the
seeds were done I sent a bunch out to him and he ran them. He found I think two cuts that he really
liked but that one was the one that looked more Urkely and it you know it got purple but it had
increased vigor and increased potency. So he started you know running warehouses of that
and crushing it. Loved it. Yeah and his I mean his selection is beautiful. I've grown it.
I've crossed it to some stuff. That line it ended up being you know as you went through
generations of it there was just more weird stuff popping up in the Urkel. Urkel man.
Yeah yeah I took it I think to F4 and it was just you know you'd get more mutants and it would just
it didn't have the vigor. I don't know I could have fucked it up but you know it just it's one
of those things that I couldn't go but so deep into. I can understand that. The actual poodle
nuts cut is super unique looking like I seen it express this really unique trait where it looks
super knobby. It's very hard to describe and I've seen pictures of some of the out crosses that have
that same trait. You know what I'm talking about? Yeah like bud structure. Yeah yeah the knobby bud
structure. Yeah yeah yeah that's yeah that that kind of surprised me. It's not quite the you know
round ball you get with Urkel but it's it's great weed. Dude yeah it's beautiful. It smells
and I've told people this a million times like people always talk about smelling cuts smelling
really rank in veg and that's a perfect example of one for me where I can take cuts of that in
the living room and in the bedroom Brynn be like did the skunk spray in here because it really does
smell like skunk spray when you cut it. Yeah veg I think it's insane. Yeah yeah and then it finishes
up so sweet and nice you know. Yeah I know it's it's very Urkely of it because like Urkel does
something similar. It has that similar skunky smell and veg and you take cuts and it's like wow
this is gonna be skunky AF and then when you when you flower it's super grapey in the end you know.
It almost gets there. And for people that are younger or don't know or weren't around during
the Urkel era one of the big issues with Urkel was that it's not a very branchy mom. It's not easy to
get a lot of cuts off it and a lot of people would veg it for a long time before they bloomed it
because it's kind of a slow grower you know. It's not Urkel. The node spacing is insane.
That's my problem. Urkel is one of those ones that you kind of have to get it around the size you
want it to be when you bloom it. Yeah and then it's going to grow like six or eight inches and
stop. It's not like a diesel or something that has a butt like it's going to double or triple in size
and branch out. It's just not going to. So when Ian Lonesome was talking about like his buddy
wanting something with a little bit better vigor, Urkel took its time. It kind of puttered along.
For me it was the node spacing. It was just constant just like node spacing every few centimeters.
Yeah you had to thin it out and just constantly stay on it. It took forever to veg. It used to be
you could grow a haze in the same time you could grow Urkel because you're going to have to veg.
Three times as long, four times as long and then when you flower it, it's going to pretty much stay
that size. Not just six to eight inches. Most of my friends up here that were successful
growing Urkel, they would be blooming a round of Urkel and they would be vegging almost the entire
bloom for their next round to get the Urkel of the root ball and just the plant to be a sufficient
size that they could then throw it into the bloom when the other round was done and get going.
Come to think of it, Urkel is another cut that got bastardized by being passed all around and a lot of
crap grows of it. You always hear about how lame and unpotent Urkel is but I've had my head ripped
off by good Urkel. Like really legit, put in my ass by good Urkel. It's just rare.
Yeah, it all comes down to the grower and the conditions. If you grow a giant outdoor Urkel,
it's just not going to be that quality. No. I like Urkel quite a bit but I have to admit
it doesn't hit me the way it hits some people. Now I will say Mr. Hill says you do not like
purples at all and in fact you agree it's all chickweed. Ask not to. I mean it's good to have
strong opinions I suppose. I said Mr. Mendo perps. Urkel for me, I have this weird relationship with
Urkel and that whole round of purples because at least in California, I don't know where high
and lonesome is but at least in California, it completely changed the weed game. What I mean by
that is before Urkel and Mendo P and Granddaddy Purple and that purple craze of like 040506 that
kind of hit, any good weed you grew, generally speaking, sold. I feel like the Urkel and the
purple wave was the very beginning of brokers being like, do you have this? I'll take as much
of it as you've got and if you don't, I don't give a shit. I don't want whatever it is.
I didn't want to grow Urkel. I liked it but I didn't want to grow it but that's what they were
asking for. Yeah and there was a bunch of people that were like, hey man, I'm having a hard time
moving my stuff and you're like, well if I give you this cut, they'll take every bit of it. Yeah
and that kind of started the movement of like brokers want this so I'm going to grow this
where I think everybody probably on this call would agree like before 2004, if you grew fireweed,
it was just going to go. Yeah. It was. It was going to go. It was going to have a home and then
like the name game with really started with purple craze and with Urkel and then it went to Diesel's
and it went to Kush's and Kush's. Yeah. But and a lot of those old strains like we were just
talking train wreck, green crack, you know, blue dream, you know, all these different things
started getting lost to the wayside because they weren't as easy to move as whatever was dominant
in the scene at the moment. Yep and we're still playing that game. Yeah and that's what ended up
making them rare, you know, it's crazy that it's awesome that pack loved train wreck and blue dream
enough to hold on to the real ones. Yeah it is, you know, I'm very thankful for it and most of my
collection is just stuff that I personally liked so I held on to it, you know, or you know in
High and Lonesome's case it's like that's really what preservation needs is like different groups
being like these cuts I really enjoy. Yeah and so I'm going to hold on to them and I'm going to grow
them nice regardless of what the market is telling me because I care about them. I mean that's the
dividing line between chasing the dollar and doing it for the love of what you're doing, right?
When you hold on to a cut long enough it becomes a partner of yours, right? Like I always say
train wreck's the longest relationship I've ever had with a girl. Oh yeah I said the same thing
about the Maui because I popped it when I was 18. Yeah you know what I mean you grow up with these
things, right? And they become this intimate part of your life regardless of if people accept it or not.
If it's in your zone and it's what you want then it really doesn't matter if it comes or goes,
right? I mean there was years we're trying to work with just one plant in the corner.
Yeah give me your honor wasn't necessarily monocropping it for you know the whole 25 years
I've had it or however long it's been but you know she's always kept that special place in my
heart and you know I've been around long enough I'm not the oldest guy in the world but I've been
around long enough to know that if you wait long enough shit comes back around man. And you
learned by watching others never hand your shit over to a tissue culture guy. The other thing I
think is interesting about what we're talking about is that all these elites that we're talking about
from back then came about in a time when elites only got popular if enough people liked to smoke
them. Yeah like this was an era where there was no modern weed marketing there was no hype
machine yet. Like things got hyped because people enjoyed growing them. Yeah and a lot of people had
to enjoy growing them for them to become popular. And not everyone had to like it but enough of the
community had to like it for it to be desirable otherwise it just kind of would fall by the wayside.
You know I had my clockwork orange cut in San Diego and down there it sold really well. It
sold really well but I was really stingy with it and I did not like passing it out. And those who
had it I made sure they didn't pass it out. Because it didn't get a lot of exposure you cannot back
then you couldn't convince people that a strain was good unless they got to smoke it. It just it
was very hard to do and you couldn't force that artificial hype. It was very very hard to have
artificial hype during those days. And even stuff that was genuinely good if it didn't make it
around it just didn't that's what happened. You know it just we had that. If it was listed as as a
$50 eighth on the back page of high times over in Missouri then it got some air time right? Yeah
is on the internet probably and like in the forums during like high and lonesomes like you know heyday
on the forums. I think like the dog what people call the chem 91 now was probably more popular
than it was in California. Because my friend that passed it out to the three or four people that got
it he wouldn't let us give it out anywhere. And so for the most part brokers were like well how good
can it be if I don't have it? Yeah yeah I think the forums is where the hype machine kind of got going.
You'd have somebody post you know an OG Kush thread showing some pictures talking about their
cut. You know talking about what it goes for in California and it would just look killer and you
know people would go ape shit over it. And that's kind of where it all started. Then you know people
start arguing over strength and you know it's it's gotten us to where we are today. I mean the
loompa's headband I remember that being one like that. Names starting to get attached. Yeah well you know
people started getting their names attached to cuts that they didn't create and they didn't pop.
They just you know they were the the one on the forum who let it out to people. So it was now
yeah so now it's it's their cut has their name attached to it. And that you know that still goes
on today you know like. Oh yeah yeah I mean you better kick you better kick up royalties to some
of these motherfuckers. Well I think I do think there's I do think there's a difference between
like your name gets attached to something because people are trying to differentiate
which one it is and they're saying comes from this person. Yeah there were certainly some people
early on like loompa or you know Ken from Ken's GDP or something like that where
they intentionally attached their name for control. Yeah sure yeah you know and some people
didn't attach their name for control. It's just like other it's almost like other your friends
give you a nickname. It's like people on the forum started referring to things as a certain cut.
Yeah and it sort of just organically happened where other people were like no I'm going to
attach my name to it. And therefore I need credit or I need money or I need seeds or all the little
dynamics that developed around possession. And what's funny is is I can't think of a single
person that intentionally attached their name to a cut that was actually the originator of the cut
made the seeds or popped it. I don't care. Oh let me think about that. What about Strawberry Cough?
Oh that's a tough one because I don't know did he pop the seed? No he got a given to him. Yeah.
Yeah and you know nothing against homie or anything like that but like obviously like the
chem 91 got skunk VA's name attached to it because he was the first person talking on the forums.
The three people I remember that intentionally attached their name was like AJ attached his
name to sour, Ken attached his name to GDP, and loompa attached his name to headband.
All very choice people. Yeah you can all hate me for it or whatever but I think those three
at least like they intentionally added their own name. Oh no yeah yeah for sure. Yeah I think AJ
was just the latest of the game on that one. I never heard of that cut. I took a little break
from being online and you know any of any of the forum stuff and I got back on about when I got
on to IG and started hearing about AJ Sour and it's like man I've never heard of this one. You
know and it just yeah there's so many things that are like that that you know I never heard of that
cut. I never heard of this sour cut. How about the Choco? You're welcome for that. Yeah let me just
let me just point out let me just point out it used to not be a popular thing to put yourself
out there in this game. Yeah right one time. No yeah I mean I tried you know Pac I try to make
that point all the time where it's like the skill sets that kept us safe for a long time which is
kind of being invisible and keeping your head down. You know a lot of us were indoctrinated
into that lifestyle for 10, 15, 20 years and then all of a sudden in like 2012 or 2015 people start
putting their faces onto things. Yeah yeah and that had never really happened before and it went
against a lot of the and then people started associating you know like you know Burner with
Cookie or something like that. Like where it was like the person that was the most vocal
ends up being like the the expert or the person that's like the most in charge of whatever the
strain is. Must be an official almost subject. I mean what's what's funny about that too is that
I've had a bunch of talks with CSI. Urkel I would say probably Blue Dream and Trainwreck. They all
kind of have very mysterious origins. Yeah. I yeah there's a lot of cuts out there that like I
there's a general consensus on most events that led to a cut's creation and the people involved.
To me I I've never I mean I've heard people claim it but I've never any of those three
strains they popped up and who the hell made them and where the hell did they come from and
still a mystery to me. Dream, Trainwreck, Urkel. Yeah all of them. And let me let me point out
you know that some of that might just be a design. Yeah sure. You know there's there's a bunch of
old boys that that still grow that I have known over my lifetime. They won't touch the internet
and they could care less about having anything to do with anything but doing what they you know
keep on keeping on growing the way they have. Yeah. And scammers love that because it doesn't
give them competition to the origin story. It is true. Like all of a sudden you can be like
Urkel came from my farm. This year I did this and there's not going to be anyone that's going to
compete it you know. A monk showed up on my property and just happened to bless us with this.
With this cut or whatever you know. Yeah that was almost like the Ken Estes GDP story and at
some point I got to cut in because people are going to want to hear the Ken Estes story H&L.
They're going to want to hear it. Yeah and I'm gonna I got something I got a couple questions
myself. Exactly. See it's perfect time to bring it in. So Ken Estes story from your point of view
how did it go down? Do you remember? Well I mean you're the one that tipped me off to it so
it's got here. I was the signal then. You were. I was kind of what an asshole. I was kind of in the
process of stepping away from the forum stuff and all that but I still checked in every once in a
while and you know mostly communicated with you know some of my old friends on there.
Bodhi being one of them. But one day you sent me a message kind of letting me know that
Bodhi's female Appalachian cut that he kept had been entered into what was it the
it was a major cup. It was like a major cup like the high times there's just barely doing cups.
Yeah in the US. Yeah I think it was like the San Francisco whatever. Yeah.
Yeah. And evidently a cut had been taken from Bodhi's mom room by I guess a helper.
Yeah. And somehow Ken got it and liked it enough that he renamed it Bay 11 and entered it into the
cup. So he won the cup with that cut of Appalachia and to follow up on the success created a seed line
not even using the cut to the best of my knowledge. Yeah who knows.
From what I think I if I'm not mistaken I think it was he had an Uji Kush seed line
and he crossed that to green crack and figured you know it'd be close enough.
And that was that was what came out as Bay 11 and I remember it being a you know a big deal people
being like this isn't what that was you know. Yeah drastically different.
Yeah so you know you kind of tip me off to that story on ICMag and I remember you know engaging
in some conversations about it. I was shocked that they edited it. Yeah like you know normally
that I was kind of. That's not how that goes down. Yeah like normally that stuff stays wrapped up.
Yeah you know. Yeah so that was it would have been cool to you know have won a cup with the name.
Yeah right like yeah. It was still when cups mattered like at that time there was it wasn't
like fully bastardized to where there were thousands of cups you know hundreds of cups
a year. It was it was when cups winning a cup could mean the difference between a thriving
business or not you know. Yeah. And it really pushed Ken's business. I mean most people already
knew who Ken was from GDP because he had marketed himself with that but the cup win boosted the
sales for that Bay 11 and his whole company and seed launch massively. That was why I was like
this is fucking gross. And even the GDP thing with Ken is is pretty suspect. Oh yeah it is.
It's completely suspect. I mean I you know I don't tell this story very much and I'll have to be kind
of like I'll have to circumvent around certain parts of it I suppose because the person that I'm
going to talk about is like a total anarchist outlaw like we were just mentioning who would
never want their name to be known. Yeah. But that person is who Ken got the GDP from. Yeah.
Up in my up in my neck of the woods and she it actually came from a retiring Vietnam vet
who lived up in the hills by me in the Laytonville area. And my friend was pretty and female which
was pretty rare in cannabis. Sure. Still is. Still is. But especially as Pac will know especially
in the Humboldt or Mendo Hills. This is even rarer. For a person to like own their own properties and
be doing their own things or whatever else it was pretty rare back then. So yeah. She was kind of
gung ho about it and he was kind of sweet on her a little bit. And so he ended up giving her like I
don't know 50 or 80 seeds of of his own hybrids that he had made. And she found GDP in the first
batch that she had. And the only reason I figured that out really was because I helped her build like
a 60 lighter in the woods. Oh wow. And so I knew her before she knew Ken and she gave it to Ken
because they were partners together on this thing right. And she wanted to stay totally anonymous.
Okay. Yeah. And people don't realize this about but this is sort of like the era where like the
first real dispensaries were opening up in the bay. Yeah. Places like yeah like the like you probably
remember packed like the third floor. Oh yeah. You know and stuff. And what was the other one
the vapor room. The vapor room the third floor. There was a few of them. Not very many back then.
The power exchange I believe was one you would always talk about. That was the one that Matt
that you were a little bit more familiar with. But be that as it may. Ken was willing she wanted
to stay up in the hills and stay anonymous. Right. Yeah. And he was willing to go to the bay
and market it. And so it kind of became Ken's GDP. I bet he was. And there was no
there she was fine with it because the last thing on earth she wanted to do was attach her name or
show her face. She had outdoors. She had depth. She was under the radar. She had a big she had
you know I mean a 60 lighter was a big deal back then. It was a diesel thing in the woods.
She wanted to stay completely hidden. Yep. And so and that's kind of why Ken's story changes
because he heard it second hand. Yeah that story and if people want to hear the full story
from the werewolf's mouth it is there you can go on Google and if you look up Ken's GDP story
I forgot what the name of the thing is but it's some like rapper guy interviewing Ken about it
and he tells this real mumbly story and you can still find the transcript that I wrote online
if you look for it. And I actually transcribed it because it's a little screwy until you transcribe
and actually see what he's saying. But he says that Native American like shamans thought he was
a really great white dude and helped them. And that's already long enough. Yeah. Yeah. Right.
And decided that they were going to gift him this magical purple Vietnamese skunk plant.
Wow. That's where this came from. So what's interesting about that is that the story goes
is that the guy that gave my friend the seeds was a Vietnam vet and had brought back some seeds from
his adventures over there when he was in the army. Right. And he it's basically like as you
know it basically became hill weed. Right. Where he took these sativa and he started crossing it
to some of the indica's that started coming in into the Mendo Humboldt area and trying to get
a plant that would finish. And then it sort of became that thing where it's like it was like
on that hill and in that neighborhood or whatever it was like they were running this thing and people
had different versions. Makes sense. You know and it was unnamed. And you know and when she
popped them or whatever there was still a variety of like sativa to indica leaning ones. And they
always picked for the outdoor they always picked a little bit more of the sativa leaners because
they needed the stretch. Yeah. And they didn't want as much of the moldy density probably too.
But a little two three foot chunky plant for for you know a woods in indoor situation was perfect.
Yeah. Especially in the early 2000s and the way that people grew back then. You know a whole
bunch of a whole carpet of plants that were only two and a half three feet tall and chunked out
was a great look. Yeah. Perfect. And but yeah he you know he he he got that exact cut from her.
And nobody even knows who she is. That's crazy. I mean I was just gonna say a Vietnam vet
jump from a Vietnam vet to a Native American shaman. That's not the biggest leap huh? Yeah I
mean you know addition here in addition there. He's counting. Well I mean what's funny Pac is like
you know with you living up in Humboldt obviously it's it's not like the the natives up there have
like a super high opinion of like you know random white dudes like Ken you know. He is very special.
He's a magic white man. We're invaders. He is a magic white man. And that's why he's so special.
Especially in Humboldt and stuff you know Humboldt, Covillo, different places in Mendo like there's a
lot of resentment. Yeah. White people did not treat the natives that were living in the valleys
very well. But yeah he basically he had to make up a story. And whenever you make up a story
sometimes the details change you know. Okay so yes or no not so I'll ask you since you're from the area
Ken Estes. Yes or no Mark Emery Minnie?
No. Only because you know he just he basically like there was it was more than just Ken.
You're welcome. Huh? You're welcome. Oh man. But he just you know he just took it down to the third
floor and it was like he was one of those guys that was willing to there was not that many people
from Mendo and Humboldt that were willing to go into those dispensaries and funnel weed into them.
Yeah. People wanted to be anonymous and he was willing to be not anonymous. And as a result of
that he got his name attached. Yeah there's also a really good song on YouTube called Leave Ken Alone.
Oh man really? Oh it is so good. I forgot who the rapper is in it but it's all about Ken getting
popped and leaving and leave him alone. And it's so good. So I highly recommend it.
Huh. And I do description in maybe in maybe Ken's defense just just a little bit because I think
this you could apply this to almost anyone that gets famous around weed is they get famous and
they get known for a particular story. And then it's like it becomes more of maintaining their
image than being honest. Sure. Yeah. I think that temptation is a really big temptation.
And we could talk about lots of different people in the industry where you know there's like not
very well known details that are true. But you know they have a narrative and they have a public
persona and their interest is maintaining that public persona. That's a lot of our favorites.
Yeah I mean I I saw this in the UFO world a lot too where people would be like famous for
say they claim to have an abduction or a UFO sighting and they'd get a lot of acclaim for this.
And maybe they did see something they found to be anomalous. Maybe these were maybe they were
being totally true or honest at the time. But after that attention goes away and all the adoration and
admiration from people and the you're so cool this is you and the recognition they slowly get this
need to get those endorphins or whatever it is again the admiration flowing. So they'll make it
up. They'll they'll force it. They'll force that whatever it is and take that reputation shot. And
I see that in weed. It transfers over so well. I mean some people catch lightning in a bottle
once and they spend the rest of their life like trying to just chasing that dragon. Yeah force
that hype and it just looks pathetic. That's a thirsty ego is what that is. Or people make
entire seed companies just based around the one or two things that they're famous for.
And only do variations around those things because that's what they're known for.
Yeah. It's super common. I mean you know you were talking. I don't know if it was Matt or you but
like you were talking about the train wreck name. I mean I heard you know wasn't there rumors that
like the E32 was because it was like the 32nd generation. Yeah it's something like a 30 second
attempt to re-pro the original. Yeah something wild. H&L wasn't that a crew the E32 crew?
I'm not sure if it was a crew but I remember that you know that term coming out on the forums and
it was like no you don't have train wreck if you have the arcade cut. The E32 cut is the one.
I remember Calio. Calio is a part of the E32. It was like an early DHK type thing.
I don't know. I know one person who'd know I kind of bugged him about that and asked but yeah
I was trying to remember because I know it was that was it Berkeley patient group that Eric
worked out of? No it was his name on the forums like AERIC. No it was the arcade whatever the
dispensary was it opened up I think off of HRI. Yeah that's right it was in Berkeley. You're right
yeah. BPG was different. Yeah yeah. Like 11 there's a club like one of the first clubs that
opened up in Arcada was off of 11th street. That's right. Dude Eric you know. Yeah and so there was
the Calio story from him and then there was the train wreck and it does predate him yeah but he
he's the cut that goes around is from him if I remember correctly and I'm sure someone will
correct me if I get that wrong but yeah. The E32? Yeah the cut that goes around that everybody has
came by him and was passed out by that collective. Not the 100% original and nobody has.
Yeah not the right right I mean Crabby knows pretty extensively he's done his research there
I think you're right that sounds like what he was saying. Yeah yeah he knows that story about the E32.
I've never seen the E32 cut though I mean I haven't put it up against the one that I've held on to
but I don't know do you guys? I think it's that cut I think it's the same cut I think it's.
Yeah I've never seen it I've just you know seen the forum hype about it. Yeah I'm pretty sure that
the cut that was out of there from Eric I'm pretty sure that's the one that everybody has or that has
it now or that had it back then. That's hard I don't know. I just think so many people had that
the one that CSI has then? Yes. Well I'll tell you that I'll tell you that my cut didn't come
from him directly I got my cut from the boys up in the hill. So here's the story right come 2000
you know we're all into clones and we're not popping seeds and my roommate partner at the time
knew this girl in Arcada and she was real you know a cute little kid or whatever you know kind
of ditzy and whatnot and he asked her for some cuts and she's like sure you know someone's
helping me. She runs up into the hills I want to say it was up in Neeland area and I got a flat
T-dub. He brought it down and didn't tell them that she wasn't getting it for her own readout.
Yeah. He ended up giving it to us right and that was my first introduction to the plant I hadn't
even seen it prior to that in the years a couple years before that and so we're growing this thing
and then come to find out she's getting hawked by these cats all of a sudden because she wasn't
supposed to let that fucking thing out and that's exactly the same time that Arcada we didn't call
Arcada Trenerick then but Trenerick started getting really prolific in Arcada and it was
fucking everywhere. It's just you couldn't get away from it. Yeah. And then not too long you know
two three years into that all of a sudden people were bringing their cuts in and bringing their
work in and it was you know rare you know you had 10 people line it up and it was rare that you got
that original you know plant a cut from that plant. That's I think because of like the tuck seed lines
the woodhorse seed lines. I finally got a hold of a woodhorse. We can talk to him finally for an
interview which would be cool I think. Yeah he was responsible for a lot of the train wreck out
there that head seed never grateful head H&L. Yeah he did Oriental Express I think. Yeah yep.
Yep. But who God who else did something with it Billy Goat. Yeah he did. He did it. I know he at
least did the Oriental Express too. We could do a public service announcement. Don't name your
seed line after a famous cut. Please don't. Please don't. Pick a different name. This is why
we have never seen the same SFV OG cut after Swerve released that line. Never again have we seen that.
Don't name it. Don't name it the exact cut name please God. Or Larry or Tahoe. They're all kind
of just like up in the air on if you ever see those cuts again that they'll ever be anything
like they were originally because so many seeds were sold under those exact names you know. Yeah
it makes it hard you know. And yeah yeah and I will say that the Santa Cruz wreck is not from
Santa Cruz by the way. Yeah but that that's super common too. I mean Matt and I were chatting about
that like if you got snow in Humboldt it was Humboldt snow. If you got it in Oregon it was
Oregon snow. If you got it in Eugene it was Eugene snow. Or if you got it in Bakersfield
there's Bakersfield snow because that's yeah that's a different thing. And then and then you
know people would get it and they would change the name and they would bring it to different places
and like names have always been very uh very odd part of the history. Yeah you know I found out
about a local strain here that I never heard of. It's actually a city in the mountains 45 minutes
from here but it's it's very close and it's called the Tehachapi Terror and I found it in a
magazine from the 70s and I know nothing else about it but yeah it sounded so cool. Tehachapi Terror.
Some bag seed mashup. Yeah bag seed mashup with garb. Do you or Matt does anybody know like
what is the Blue Dream origin story since we've gone over like not knowing what train wreck is
what is Blue Dream supposed to be? I've heard I've heard a few different theories.
Hyann Lonesome what do you got? I don't Blue Dream wasn't in my world. We were we had Green
Track and Train Wreck. Blue Dream wasn't as big out here. The only stuff I saw you know was flown in.
So that specific cut when it was first given to me by Bodie and the people who kind of were around
the Santa Cruz area that knew the the crowd that was giving it out or where it came from
all said it was 98 blueberry from DJ. That specific cut that he would pass around crossed
a super specifically a super silver haze from Greenhouse and I only know of one company that
ever released that specific cross and I don't know if it came after or before.
It's one of those things chicken before the egg and it was the blue hen from
bluegrass seeds Kentucky some seeds something like that yeah it was the blue hen and I remember
seeing pictures of both in the Canada Bible so I'm not sure which came first on that but they
were both similar type plants that I'd imagine you could find similar expressions if they were
both using similar lines to make them I would imagine. You know the only variation I would add
to that that I've heard is this haze that people refer to as the Santa Cruz haze
being being that cut that was used with the blueberry. I have yet to see the Santa Cruz
haze I don't know if this is just a myth or if it's I would I would almost bet my left nut that
it would be a super silver haze based on the the turf profile and everything else. I would be pretty
dead on especially because how quickly it finishes still all that yeah yeah.
The Johnny Blaze I think was. Yeah it was legends seeds Neville's haze.
Yeah that one took a little bit longer and it still got kind of big like Neville's.
I could definitely see super silver haze being the father.
Pac I remember if I remember correctly I think super silver haze got dropped as a seed line in
97. I think it won three cups in a row in in in the cannabis cups in Holland
and I believe it was like 97 98 99 something like that it could be wrong maybe it was 96
but it was something along those lines. I think you're right 97.
Right around there it was right around there. That's right yeah.
I think about like old Sog super silver haze cut like if I cross that to the DJ's cut DJ's mom
the blueberry that he sold when he was going around giving lectures and stuff if I cross those
two I'm pretty sure I could nail that thing pretty fast it would it would be pretty regular occurring.
Yeah. Pretty sure so yeah I could see how that could be definitely.
One thing one thing I'll interject is that at the little gathering that we just had
one of the favorite things I smoked was a hybrid pack made that was a Blue Dream by Trainwreck.
Oh yeah that's good.
And good one of the one of the things I'll say about it is that I think terpenoline has a lot
of depth to it but it's so forward and strong like it overpowers a lot of people and that
Blue Dream hybrid with Trainwreck that Blue Dream brought like a sweetness in
that almost like took like the the edge off that Trainwreck flavor.
Oh yeah but nice dude.
But like but the the flavor of Trainwreck was still there it just wasn't like the predominant
knock you just took a step back right.
It just took a step back there was like a sweet it's almost like with cooking where like
you add some acidity or you add some you know you add something to balance out your sauce.
Yeah it had that brightness come through.
That had the brightness for sure and you know we joke a lot that like once you get terpenoline
in something it's really fucking hard to get it out.
Yeah and I didn't think anything could tame the Trainwreck nose so much but that hybrid
it really allowed the terpenoline to shine because it gave it a sweetness.
I actually did a review on the Blue Dream Trainwreck in a previous episode
in a short episode so go check that out if you're interested.
But yeah it I was I was really impressed because it was two very two things I was very familiar
with and they combined really nicely.
Yeah that yeah I think that surprised a lot of people and may have been I think other
than the Blue Dream I think that was probably the one that everybody gravitated to pretty
hard.
Yeah it's all luck bro.
Yeah but you still did it it's luck with intention.
Oh yeah I love it.
Yeah you know.
I came home from the party and I popped some.
Yeah buddy.
Yes I did.
I think everybody did they're like.
Yeah so that's kind of the impression that that's kind of the impression that it made
where I just had to say that two old school you know pretty famous things that crossed
really well together.
Yeah.
Yep.
Yeah you know the one thing that I that I appreciate that not so by the way all you
guys I appreciate that you know your input with that I want to say that the thing that
I was struck most with was not not just T-Dub taking a back step but then the trainwreck
comes through and pushes up the potency a little bit right.
Oh yeah.
Oh yeah.
You know both of those in and of themselves if you don't if you're not used to smoking
them your body's not used to taking it in they can both hit you pretty hard in their
own way.
Yeah.
But it was it's nice to be able to smoke both of the original parents side by side and then
go over and hit hit that combination and see where it kind of got enhanced or got pulled
back.
So it was really it was really a cool treat to be able to watch my buddies you know and
partake with my friends in terms of looking at that in real time and getting that feedback
you know it's really a special thing to do that.
Anytime you smoke like 60 things in two and a half days.
Yeah.
It gets even just smelling things you smell five or six things in a row and you're like
your nostrils are kind of burned out for 10 minutes but the quality of that that hybrid
shown in my opinion.
While we're talking about this stuff let's talk about some of the stuff we saw at the
party and some of the different things that we noticed didn't notice I mean Packet was
your first time there I know it was your first time coming to the one of the gatherings
so yeah maybe maybe you guys I don't know which one he wants to start but talk about
some of the screens you saw what you thought was the most unique what you thought probably
bummed you out the most and yeah all that.
Sure you know as we were just talking about it Pac stuff surprised me you know that that
one in particular just how the train wreck came through on some of his hybrids it took
a backseat I've grown quite a few hybrids of train rackets normally a variation on the
theme you know it's it's train rack with a tiny bit of this or a tiny bit of that but
you know his hybrid seems really well blended that one in particular I really enjoyed.
Bitters grow of shoreline was yeah.
Amazing that was great and his dog shit electric boogaloo.
Both of those were great.
It was just a lot another one that really stood out to me was the Death Star yeah several
people you know panda brought some local brought some.
And that had such a it was a lot ranker than I thought it'd be it almost had like a Kim D.
Rankness to it yeah it was you know in that level as far as potency I would say
but it was like definitely instead of being like that nasty garbage it was like nasty
polyester.
It's hard to say but it was just it was it's very complex very bright and.
It's pretty fucking hard yeah I dug it.
Yeah.
Definitely it's a it's unique absolutely unique.
How about you pack what you see it stood out.
Man I mean it there's there's so much novelty going around that it's hard to kind of determine
some from the others I was blown away by the call.
Just for the fact yeah we're all calm sitting there and nobody brought that through those
those pretty amazing I wasn't sure if I was supposed to eat it or smoke it so just.
Oh I thought we were supposed to.
Yeah well you can you can and let me know how it goes.
Bodhi told me who made it so I just stuck it up my my.
Yeah I think that's probably what made you sick.
Yeah it probably was I probably knew exactly what I was going to do with it and poisoned it.
You know what I do with everything I get.
What else did you like?
You know I mean honestly it's no jumped in before I could speak but you know that the
electric blue amazing you know what I mean and yeah and I'll tell you what that short
brought me back to my days in high school.
Oh yeah you know I just felt like yeah man I felt like it was 93 all over again.
It's a time capsule man that's a great one.
Absolutely I'm look so forward to growing that too by the way so
but you know one that one that threw me off guard that I wouldn't have gone and picked up
on my own but it happened to hit it and it and somehow or another cut through everything for
me at that moment I got so high I remember watching skid just laughing at me looking
at me like dude you're stuck right now was that uh was that moon boat.
Oh really?
That was good shit yeah.
He brought and you know it could have been that I was on the you know 25th hour of the day.
That might have been it.
It was four in the morning you know whatever I don't remember the time I don't remember where
I was but I remember hitting that and just kind of floating off into this like other place for a
while and feeling embarrassed because of you know someone's laughing at me and my reaction.
I liked it enough to put a picture up with it on Instagram and post about it so it was it was
pretty good yeah it was really good.
I mean I've gone I've gone and revisited it since because you know I was lucky enough to be able to
bring some party bags back and you know it's really not that bad it's not something that I
would necessarily have in my armory you know in terms of I want to grow this and get into it but
I might you know I might do that if I had the right cut but that one stood out.
You know our buddy Denali came through some some D some sour Denali which you know to this day I'm
still kind of just breaking little pieces off because the flavor is amazing.
Yeah he brought some silver D too.
I like the silver D.
He did that silver brought you know yeah the silver fox.
That silver fox.
It's nice to call it silver fox.
That test was at 21 percent right?
Yeah the 21 percenter that's thanks to our scientific silver pearl yeah.
Like everything tested at 21 percent right?
Smashing and yeah I made a post about that by the way and Purple Scientific chimed in they're like
yeah that's not right that's not how it should go and a few other people chimed in and were like
yeah my machine hasn't isn't working for me like that you know maybe get turned it in get it tested
and they're like yeah tell your friend you know get a hold of us we'll replace it DM us.
So I DM them and they said it's not mine but I'll be happy to talk to the guy and they're like what
are you talking about and I was like you told me to DM you you know like no he didn't weird okay
and left it at that but yeah no that thing was we all saw it like everybody there sat around and
watched this thing nail 21 percent on just ridiculous stuff like across the board a board.
I mean I got I got oh I'm sorry I was gonna say I got I just got one more shout out bro one more
shout out if I can to CB to our buddy Crybaby and and some of the magic that he weaves.
Our friend Panda came down from way up north with in the arctic made the trip down and I think
another friend of our ring our friend of ours rings grew out the Meteora 4.
Yeah that was good yeah.
And brought that down and then somebody had the what is the BO the burnt offering
next to that which is a I guess a grandchild of the Meteora and it was nice to have those
side by side because you know just smoking that burnt offering a couple months back
I was like wow this is very unique this is not something you usually get
often and having that next to the Meteora 4 and seeing that kind of relation between the two
those pretty interesting for me to be able to get to do that so that definitely sticks out in my mind.
Meteora 4 was probably my favorite like what would be traditionally considered
sativa leaning type there yeah but my favorite out of all of them in that category.
What about you Natsu? What about you Matt?
Natsu go ahead.
I'm gonna take a different tact I think in that my favorite part of the gathering was the people
and the the reason I say that is because you know when when we threw these parties earlier
they were kind of based around the Emerald Cup it was sort of like a way for heads and
friends to gather after the sort of like the big the big gathering itself and this time was
different and then it was intentional and it was friends that mostly talk online to each other
coming from in some cases literally all over America yeah coming from the far east from the
far north from you know people spent a lot of time and energy to make sure that they could come
and you know I really was no joke getting it it was no joke once they hit the airport to get to
where the party was but yeah yeah and I do think that like you know especially with COVID and stuff
and people being trapped in their houses and being able to spend a lot of time online you can make
some really good friends but I do think it really helps to spend a few days like breaking bread with
someone getting baked with them eating food shooting the shit I mean uh one of my I mean
one of my one of my favorite muscles loved in you know yeah one of my favorite things about the event
is that you know our our homie who's a bitter uh you know he gets up at like 4 30 in the fucking
morning or something and so he starts toughing puff and whenever I go to one of these events I
wake up and I just hear his laugh yeah that's great you know because it's shout out shout out
to bitter and his wife for holding it down by the way there was this there was this memory I had
where I got up in the morning and uh bitter was on like his like 12th joint or something because
he was intent on trying all this shit and high and lonesome had just woke up and bitter handed
him this joint it was like a chem d joint laced with uh chem d keith yeah and high and lonesome
took two three hits and he was like man this is like this is not the starter mix for my dad
you went back to bed after that actually
and so just but but you know faces to names hearing people's voices getting to see people's
sense of humor where it's not typed out but it's in real time um you know the internet is cool
because it brings it can bring people together but being able to spend time I think and just it
was a it's like a prop it was a proper to me like old school harvest festival yeah where you have a
bunch of real weed people sitting down making friends talking shop eating food joking sharing
their passion basically you know um and that you know there was enough of us there that each brought
some of our old favorites uh that there was a lot of good favorites there and I remember I can't
remember who it was it was like I'm not gonna call them out because that would be rude or anything
like that but I remember panda telling me that one of the guys that came brought like all this like
new school za you know yeah and after he smoked the shoreline and the electric boogaloo and some
trends and this and that he like took all his weed and he put it back in the bag because he was like
man you know I don't even care about my weed he's like this right here yeah and it's neat because
you know we're all older now or whatever and we don't realize that stuff that we have a lot of
experience with most new school smokers that have only been around for eight or ten years
missed the era of almost everything that all four of us have been talking about this entire time
yeah if you started smoking in like 2010 2012 if you kind of got into the scene in the last 10 or
15 years um you probably didn't smoke real train wreck or real blue dream or real green crack or
what the hell is trace dog or you know it's like because we eat it's like a flash in the pan
right yep it's like it really is and uh and so for me you know there's lots of there's lots of
favorites I have but um I just I I enjoy spending time around people who share my interests yeah
and I agree I agree aside from aside from being able to get uh to meet h&l in person I say that
you're correct yeah well even even on that you know like so I'm in the kitchen and you know CSI
and Bodie and H&L are all talking um and they're like eating like you know we're eating like
smoked fish that panda had brought down from Alaska and we're smoking weed from over here and
H&L and Bodie and and CSI have known each other since the early to mid 2000s yeah and it was
probably the first time they met in person yep sure was all three of them yeah you know so even
that kind of stuff right there I just think is super cool I mean me and H&L have a company
together and that was the first time we've met I remember I was like all all frantic because I came
in the door because I was the last one there and like I was driving yeah I was driving in the canyon
I can't see for shit it's super dark so it was taking forever so I finally get there and we had
to bring the dog because it's big and wild nobody else gonna take care of him and I had to carry in
like three rooms of shit just for the dog and so I'm dead tired and I remember walking by hugging
someone I thought was panda because I've seen pictures of panda but I'd never met panda
hugging I'm thinking I hugged panda went downstairs came back upstairs and goes
where's my mother fucker hi I loaned to him and he's like all right you already hugged me bro
um but yeah I mean it's you know how to go it's you know how to go put a sticker on his
just so he could oh there you are all of a sudden he started getting all kinds of attention once he
put that sticker on yeah but yeah aside from that you know seed swapping clone trading
talking about your favorite strains getting to share your favorite stuff with your friends
you know uh like watching local smoke p91 that was cool watching the young and fucking smoking
old san diego strain and like fall in love with it oh the other thing maybe i'll throw this out
there too is one of the things that I liked about a dead tour was that you could be at a campsite
hanging out with people your age people in their 30s people in their 60s you know where a lot of
a lot of times you're really only hanging out with like your own age group and we had people there
from their mid-20s all the way up to their mid-60s yeah yeah there was probably a 40 or
you know I mean probably like you know uh Denali and his late you know there was there was some
senior citizens there there were some kids that were in our opinion are barely out of their diapers
you know and I remember you know and some that are barely in their diapers yeah I remember
panda looking over at me and being like dude I've never been to anything like this in my life
uh yeah yeah to be able to soak people out like that is one of the coolest things on earth and
you know I think I think I stopped Matt once at one point and I looked at him and said dude this
is one of those moments in time that's quite rare uh to come across so um don't you know
just recognize I wasn't telling him to recognize but I reckon I'm right yeah I agree with you I
just think people taking their time and their energy and money and flying and driving and
prepping and all the effort that went in to just have a nice time with friends for a weekend and
talk shop um you know I can't I felt high honestly like for days afterwards and it wasn't yeah it was
just I just enjoyed myself immensely there was a lot of positive intention for being yeah that
was pretty cool and uh you know I think uh I think that kind of like bonding with people in person is
important yeah uh Bryn has never been to one of our gatherings before my chick and she went this
time and like when we got home she's like I finally get it I finally get how you bonded with
these guys and like why you guys love each other as much as you do why you guys are so loyal and
close she's like I love those dudes now too I feel like they're family yeah so yeah I can tell
she's not in the room because she didn't throw a shoe at you exactly
hey man I'll tell you what dude the one thing I want to say about that is you know
the the world that I was brought into because I didn't grow up in the weed scene I jumped into it
you know junior high high school kind of thing but the the old cats that I that brought me in
under their wings that was the energy and that was the philosophy you know what I mean it was
you know there were people with egos of course there's people you know snassels out there and
whatnot but for the for the most part there is this cultural like consideration and this this
bigger picture that was going on besides the plant the plant brings you together but there's a
certain way you know of kind of interacting with people that that really kind of solidified that
era for me and to be able to fast forward 20 some odd years and get a touch of that you know
a taste of that again in a very unique kind of situation you know kind of brought back some some
some hope on my behalf right because I'm watching everything else fall out I'm not joining the big
the big I guess I'm not riding the wave or at this point I'm not and it's not my thing but
to know that that was still well and alive and all we had to do was you know kind of let it
unfold naturally and get there you know yeah yeah I mean there were a lot of a lot of young guys
like not to said you know a huge age gap but you know we're all weed people we're all you know
very much similar yeah we're in it and it was great to see I've tried to drive home like in our
discord patreon to like the the people that hang out there and the breeder syndicate with us and
talk stuff and like get really into the nerdy end of stuff is like when they hear us talk about the
can of luminati they like you know they kind of first are like yeah is it like some underground
like you know they don't realize like it was named as kind of like a tongue-in-cheek joke
just because it was like it wasn't anybody who gives a fuck it wasn't any of the the famous
people that you'd see in cannabis like is the main faces you wouldn't see snoop dogg here you
wouldn't see sure bins you wouldn't see any of those guys there but what you did have was the
most passionate people in cannabis I felt like I that's all it's ever been about has nothing to do
with how long you've been doing it has nothing to matter nothing to do with how good you are at
doing it not even that has to do with your passion your drive and like how intent you are to
to make this your your passion really I think that's how we all found each other
that's for sure yeah for sure but I it's pretty it's pretty cool you could be on the same level
as a brother you'd never met from halfway across the world when you guys are walking the door and
it's as if you knew each other your whole life you know yeah it's crazy man nothing better I
definitely think it I definitely think it strengthens some friendships you know which is
pretty cool and in the fact that it was pretty quick either way yeah as far as the actual weed
goes since I pontificated a bunch about like just like human as a human element you hit everybody
feels yeah I've been super clear that I think that the 90s and the early 2000s was sort of
the golden era of weed and so most of my favorites are things from that era yeah you know
the chems the cushes the train wrecks the blue dreams the shoreline for my for my age or whatever
I just find most of that older weed hits me better yeah it gives me a better effect and even if it's
a wide variety of effects it's the rare weed that's been made in the last five or six years
that hits me like some of that older stuff yeah and so having a bunch of friends bring their
personal favorites you know uh you know we he mentioned it but bitter brought you know two three
kind maybe four kinds of kush along with the electric boogaloo along with the shoreline and
then high and lonesome had some chem d and some and some headbands and fire chem d by the way yeah
and some different things and then you know uh pack had uh you know train wreck and blue dream
and classic the blue garlic train wreck was a big hit too people yeah and um you know there was
there was a few different people that brought the the you know the death star and and just you know
and just different things like that i mean uh you know it eventually you know at first i was like
oh i wonder if there's going to be enough weed and then i was like man i wonder if there's enough
places to put all this weed because it like we kept moving tabletops and all that and uh well
not usually brings it all like like most of the parties it's it's been like 90 percent
you're we yeah so you're like i'm not gonna bring me bringing a bunch of stuff so we were
he was concerned yeah yeah and it was it was that way because because i had greenhouses and stuff
like that even if i'm like mono cropping say two things for the market yeah i would have a 20 by 30
bed that was a bunch of head stash yeah yeah sure and it was just me you know so the first two three
parties we did i don't know matt i probably brought pounds it was you know yeah like for
like for real like it was like pounds of each individual thing i probably brought like you
know there was probably like four or five pounds of like you know total but it was like 35 different
things you know yeah uh no i think it was like one to two pounds of like 35 different things
whatever it was it was it was a button and and then the other part of it is in a commercial
environment just everyone sharing being super generous giving samples to all their friends
you know csi uh you know dumped a bunch of uh you know various crosses he'd made on the ground
so that anyone could grab them up people were exchanging seeds and information i think i should
shout out to i brought you know not everybody could do this because some people flew and didn't
drive but yeah i brought some mementos from my past um matt brought a bunch of very cool
um magazines and old art and uh you know rare rare um you know catalogs of different things for
people to look through and no one stole anything well not so good but we oh yeah not yeah forget
not so still but that just i think that just ended up in my stuff yeah you're the only other person
that brought books you know yeah yeah so it just ended up in my stuff but but just just a bunch of
friends you know cooking and eating out and and smoking things and chatting and all that it really
does make a difference yeah well the vibe too right like it wasn't a competition i wasn't about
who's got the biggest ego or the biggest issue it was you know really kind of this there's joining
right like i think i think that makes a difference too like honestly we've talked about like do we
want to make it like a cup event we've talked about it a few times between a few of us and it's
like i i don't know man would that change it like because even even though it's all really close
friends as men we're competitive you know to a degree and if you have like a prize or something
we can all like argue over like flex on even flex on each other over it just changes the vibe
completely so i mean the hard thing too is when you have a party like that with the way that
weed works it's like a snapshot in time yeah so there was thing there was friends of ours that
couldn't come because of conflicts um there was weed that was almost done that couldn't make it
that was on the line you know but not quite ready to be in the bag so it was kind of like
what do i have ready at the time yeah and some of it was a little fresh some of it was a little
old some of it was perfect you know um but really what it was is it was mostly just like
you know it's kind of like everybody brought stuff and it's like here's what i do for love
and here's what i'm cropping right now to survive yeah and here's a variety of things
that that incorporate all that you know i mean how better can it get man you know it was i i mean
the only thing my only complaint with it was that um it needed to be like an extra two days
yeah for sure and i needed i needed like a humidifier and throat water
we had it in a pretty we had it in a pretty dry mountainous part of california
and with all the talking and smoking i was like a husk yeah you sounded bad at the end of the day
you know i think all of us most people i talked to uh or heard their voice for three or four days
afterwards we're in the same position yeah oh yeah it took a minute it took a minute to recover
yeah i'm gonna shout out to cry baby he sent this and i'll give a plug to the company too so
this is that piece i brought it to the party and he sent it out so we could use it at the party and
and the hook is oh yeah it's a molten i think they say it's the gyzr perk which it's just a
few little holes but it's it's probably my favorite piece you don't get like crap all in
the lip you know i don't know one of the coolest things and this is the uh tornado i think it's
called the tornado like catcher thingy whatever yeah that was the other cool part was just i mean
i brought a i brought a tube and stuff but there was a bunch of different vapes you know not only
that but just like smoking smoking the way people prefer to smoke yeah which can vary widely yeah
local tried glass for his first time he had only ever smoked out of joints or blunts
and i'm like bro you have to try that and after that he was a changed man and then he trained
and then he tried the rip and he was even more mind blown that that weed could taste like that
you know yes well it was funny with that old school fucking vape box uh yeah yeah the crew
like that method that we figured out with it or whatever you know um and and then you just and
then what's interesting about that is you smoke a joint a blue dream or you or you vape blue dream
or you take a bong hit of it and you get different qualities sure yeah yeah you know not so not so
explain explain what that box was again oh man so the box it's like one of the what's in the box not
it's probably like one of the older like vape devices that came out it's probably been around
for a good 20 years or longer it's been a long time and it's basically a tapping
can you guys hear it oh i'm sorry hold on let me stop that
we got an interesting house here it likes to make some noises hold up he's beaten off there it is
and uh so it's like a wooden box that has like a glass uh element with a ceramic on it and you can
dial it in for how hot it gets and then it has like a a glass mouthpiece with a a tube for lack
of a better term that connects to another glass piece um and most people would end up like filling
the glass like really deep yeah and then you get one or two nice hits and then it kind of tastes
popcorn-y and and it kind of loses its flavor and it's hard to deal with but what we figured out 20
years ago is if you just grind up weed and you just you just use the mouthpiece and you just
suck up a little bit just enough it's the motion it's the motion when you do it yeah can you do it
it's you have to like hoover up the weed yeah but what do you do do you put it to your mouth
i do you have to put it i smoke by putting things to my mouth and inhaling i don't know how other
people do it but that's my method okay i inhale it you can get you to pantomime and so i uh and so
you know if you but if you just coat the the screen with a little bit of weed yeah you can
get two or three really nice hits and then you can blow it out in a little bit of water or a glass or
something like that and it just is really user-friendly yeah they completely changed my
grip deck too now yeah we the vapeware box right yeah vapewares and vapor brothers made them
vapor vapeware vapor brothers indeed and we smoked it a bunch and it kind of fell in and out of favor
and then when we figured out how to do it that way there was like a couple year period where like
that was the method i bet why do it any other way when you get really clean turps that way you know
you get really like a really good sense of like the profile of how the weed tastes i feel like
it's a little bit of a different buzz i think you get way higher in my opinion i at least it's it's
it's a noticeably different high that's different now smoking any other way and it's got to be
because like the volatile shit that would normally burn away right away you're actually experiencing
what it's like to you know and then the other thing i'll say is that since everyone was so
generous with samples i'm still smoking off samples i brought home um and i got a much better
sense of a lot of the weed at home yeah i did at the party because when you're at the party once
you've smoked 27 kinds of weed in eight hours through nine different methods you know just like
if you're what cuts through at that point yeah it's like what cuts through but it's like you
know it's hard and it's like then it's like i can wake up and i can do some chores and i can take a
couple hits of this and go do some stuff and i'll be like oh it does that yeah oh it's got that kind
of effect you know like oh it makes me want to sit down and do nothing or like pax said with the
train wreck oh like it makes me want to move yeah did any of you get to try the banana tie
oh yeah and a bride that shit makes me want to move makes my heart pound i love it i love it a
bit much for me i see yeah i smoked that shit before i think uh that that's the other part of
it that i that i do like is that you know pack used to live up in humboldt and i do think that
like humboldt and mendo and going to i call santa cruz like the very edge of the weird bubble you
know yeah there's this bubble that there's enough weed people doing stuff around you that there's
somewhat of a community you know and we we got some friends that came out from illinois and from
alaska and from here and from there that they're kind of like the only person like them in their
little community yeah and so it was really it was really nice to see especially some of the younger
guys um get to hang out with a bunch of people like them of all age groups i think probably for
them it was like more memorable even for us i'm sure yeah maybe i don't know i don't know if
memorable would be the correct term saying how you're all so high you're probably not going to
retain a lot of the memories yeah influential i don't know i remember i remember a fishing hook
almost hit me in the head a few times yeah yeah you know just just speaking of that bubble not so
that you brought up i was telling you a while back you know one of the reasons why i didn't get on
the forum back in the days because i you know i was in that network from you know the network that
i that i had around me was you know it was kind of compartmentalized right like there was the
cruise down in big sur and you had your monterey cats seaside guests and you had your people
and you know santa cruz and humboldt um but i i'd never had a a need to go outside of whatever the
network was that i was working within in terms of trying to reach out or find out you know what's
going on with others or you know growing techniques or whatnot not that it wasn't wouldn't have been
something that would have been helpful at that point but because of my propensity to not want
to be on the radar whatsoever and even touch a computer and say anything on there um that had
anything to do with whatever i wasn't really compelled at least in my group to have to you
know feel like i need some connection outside of what i'm doing on my own you know i wasn't really
that kind of lone wolf space whereas a lot of people i think and hdl could probably speak to
this better than me but a lot of people who weren't so connected or had to be even more
um discreet right and i weren't going to talk to anybody it was like that was a great place to be
able to make those connections and and really kind of figure out what was going on right yeah here it
was uh a whole different animal i mean you didn't you knew two guys maybe in the area it was you
know if you wanted if you wanted to be amongst people like you you had to find them online
because you weren't talking to other people around you doing the same thing weren't talking and it's
still uh still kind of like that here even with you know some version of legalization it's um
it's still pretty pretty closed-lipped at least you know the people that have been doing it a long
time i agree and i also think that because we're sort of like a a very small subset of a subculture
right um in a way like we love weed for weed you know um is that the either you know the internet
is a way for lots of people that have sort of unusual interests to find each other
right um you know from all kinds of walks of life it's either that or bathroom stalls
we only have two choices i mean and uh you know so they uh how i got not so number
and indeed right off the bathroom stall
but yeah i mean i i i agree i you know it's it's that you know even in people think
i get it all the time where people think that mendo or humboldt is something that it isn't
yeah because they you know they think of it as like this weed mecca which it kind of is but it
also has all these elements that like you wouldn't really get unless you live there um and so i but
you know just you know sharing time and energy with like-minded individuals i think is a good
thing you know and i was i'd like pack i too i was scared of the internet um especially when heaven
stairway and uh and cannabis world and and overgirl all got shut down i wasn't very tech
savvy so i got worried that like everything i didn't said would be permanently there that they
could find yeah it was a little bit it was kind of green merchant yeah it was definitely
pappy green merchant before like 1990 and this was like probably i don't think i think those busts
happened until like 2003 or 04 if i remember correctly um but i didn't like when with high
and lonesome being on ic mag and all that like i lurked in that era uh but i just basically like
you you were on someone else's computer yeah and i was i was in norca lake county mendo you know
it was kind of a booming time for my area for cannabis yep not mine no not yours hey matt we
didn't get you partner what was what was the standout or standouts for you man oh i don't know
um of course a blue dream just because like i it's a classic for me and because i'm such a
blueberry head like um that's that that's what i i pull to um let's see like the main standouts i
know everybody was stoked on the shoreline i didn't get to try that one because i was so busy
trying everything else but that's the one i remember everybody being real stoked on and hearing about
um yeah i liked caleb's flight plant he's called flight risk or flight plan i he's i always get it
wrong that was a good one flight risk flight risk there you go yeah that makes more sense than flight
plan um and then there was he had one called um the the blackberry wine 69 it was really unique
and tasted and smelled like wine like chardonnay that was cool um there was the the
sweet 16 i want to say yeah that was really good i like that was the pinks and purps selection i
think yeah it was from the pinks and purps like the blackberry widow hybrid
mendo perps type thing real cool yeah yeah yeah kept going back to that jar as a matter of fact
yeah there was so much stuff there that it was just ridiculous to try to go through it all there
when i got home i i didn't try the death star much while i was there when i got home i really
enjoyed it you know um p91 i finally got to try when i got home and and that was really good
really good grow of it um god and it did not a silver pearl i'd never get enough of silver pearl
that was so good and i've never had outdoor silver pearl yet and it was still pretty good
i liked it and it actually had a pretty pretty strong high for silver pearl 21 percent 21 at least
yeah that's what i dug for sure i was wondering i have a bag of that silver pearl it was smoked
on the other night and it looked like something denali put out so tasty yeah yeah he gets he gets
a nice backyard victory garden yeah you know and so he gets to do a bunch of favorites and stuff
like that so yeah um yeah he had he had i gave him uh my sour diesel cut he had a pretty nice
example of that it was um you know i didn't even get to try that no i don't it's hard to catch it
it's a hard one outside like the flavor varies a lot outdoor but the potency is there yeah for sure
oh wait no i take that back he did i did get to try that one he sent it to me beforehand
it was good did it really good outdoors yeah i was like wow this actually is really good sour at
first he didn't know he's like i don't know if this is good or not and i was like no it's actually
coming through in the outdoor it has a great smell yes sour is so variable outdoor it is but you know
i feel like the high normally is there it's just the flavor and the looks you know for me are very
variable definitely it takes a long time high in lonesome so you really need a good season
yeah um in order to get it to express right because you really need that last two weeks to
be bangled yeah and it likes to go towards halloween-ish or even early november-ish at
times so you don't always get that weather not here now not even in mendo sometimes you know
it just depends yeah it just depends sometimes you get real nice warm dry falls and other times
it's rainy and cloudy and problematic yep so my phone's about to die matt yeah well i'm gonna
yeah we're almost at two hours i'll touch on the 420 sale real quick we got a sale coming up on 420
um we have some freebies from high and lonesome what are the freebies you're gonna be
throwing in uh they are the mule skinner so that is gmo cross to apalachia that's awesome
and goat farm is going to be a part of it too and what's going to be the freebies with your stuff
yes sir what do we got uh i think we're gonna throw in uh maybe we're gonna do that afghan uh
arcana and then uh i got something called hell melon
and that's it it was a watermelon skittles hybrid yeah watermelon skills hybrid crossed with uh
an f3 uh angelica which is one of buddy's um cuts a buddy of mine had been working on that for quite
some time around here the angelica awesome got it to a nice spot and yeah it's gonna be something
they're gonna have a few things from both of those gentlemen and uh we'll be having a big uh
percentage off and i'll be throwing in some other freebies too we'll be letting everybody know about
it um shout out to molten glass again for this awesome glass it really is my favorite piece and
shout out to cry baby for for hooking it up and uh we wish you would have been there this year but
you weren't buddy we'll see you next year buddy next time and i would just like to throw in that
uh you know when matt convinced me to start chatting in public uh we kind of wanted to bring
like real weed talk without like so much promotion into it um and so uh everybody on this chat today
is my very good friend and so anytime i get to chat with my homies it's always a good time and
so i'm super glad that uh high and lonesome and pack and all of us we got to chat for the last
couple hours very enjoyable that damn time yeah yeah i just wanted to mention that that that uh
you know everybody on this podcast today is my really good friend and i appreciate them a lot so
likewise what do you got you got any closing thoughts that was my closing thought was this i
just wanted to be pretty much all right if you know you got one no i mean the positive vibes
coming from that so pretty much covers it yeah we all do this for the love of it and um it's
just great to see like-minded folks out there
yes sir i agree i agree um well you know just stoked to be part of a good group of people
you know and and sharing a similar philosophy uh that goes beyond just chasing the dollar
you know what i mean it's it's really cool to to know that that's well and alive and um
you know and you got some merch coming out soon too yeah somewhere maybe yeah yeah well you know
we're always in the lab doing something around here yeah um i would say i would say keep your
eye out uh you know i don't know if anyone does follow on instagram or whatnot i have a tendency
post some things that i'll be working with maybe a couple months ahead of time
and that's for me to get an idea as to what i'm doing right it's all part of the vetting process
but um if you're wondering what might be coming down uh the pipe here in the next six months to
a year or shorter um you know there's some good things in the works um i'll say that shoreline
is on that shoreline on the green crack is on the list hell yeah and uh you know maybe maybe
some blue dream work you know who knows yeah some collabs with you and uh high end lonesome
in the future maybe i hope i think that's in the books i think it's a good idea that might be
something i think it's on radar what was that i said i think it's on the radar yeah yeah oh well
you know i'm just stoked to watch my good buddies want to grow some of the shit i've been putting
together um hl's you know gonna be popping some things you know things are starting to show up so
you know i'm just thankful to to be part of it all and it's it's uh you know you create you not
to create something really unique here and i appreciate it i appreciate it man yeah i i i
personally um have i grew up reading like high end monsom stuff like on the forums and um i dude
becoming going from being like an admirer to to one of my best friends has been a huge honor
and um same with you pac learning you learning learning who you are and who you are behind
like your instagram person but the person behind that and and how you're involved and stuff has
been pretty mind-blowing it's pretty been really cool getting to introduce you to everyone and so
they get to learn your story too and slowly slowly hopefully everybody else will over time
so we'll see how it goes look at how nice he is to you too i know yeah and then there's that i get
i get uh i get trucks you guys get you guys get warm warm admiration not so he's just all that is
is he's been loving you a little bit longer that's all yeah indeed sexual frustration
sexual frustration fellows you're an old married couple
yeah thank you for everybody for everybody's time yeah thank you for coming on
it was a pleasure my phone literally is at two percent so if i die it's it's it's that
and then not so dead so that's that so all right we'll end it now real quick um and then i'll talk
to you guys one second one second you want to sit at the table with the syndicate check out our
patreon and our link tree or description below our merch site is officially live we have all sorts of
shirts hoodies and goodies to sort you out and shipping is super fast and most importantly the
quality is top notch i've been saving old designs for years for this purpose so please check it out
syndicategear.com we also have an underground syndicate discord where we get together and
solve old strain history together daily it's an amazing community of learning away from ig and
it's an amazing resource for old catalogs and knowledge we hope you join our union of breeders
and growers come check it out
