Welcome to Breeder Syndicate.
What's up everybody?
How's everybody doing?
Welcome to Breeder Syndicate.
Today we're going to go and talk about the sequel to what we were discussing in the last
episode, which was the early years of the Dutch seed bags.
Yep.
So I mean, kind of last year we, or last time, so to speak, we chatted a lot about how they
got started.
We chatted about Neville and all that.
And we kind of took us, took everybody through like the first three or four years.
You know, I see that there's a bunch of cool questions this week that have already popped
up.
So we'll get to that in a little bit, but we're going to kind of start on, we're going
to kind of start and take you guys through like the last, say like 10 years or so of
Neville's influence and kind of his history.
So you know, we got a bunch of notes and things like that.
We'll hold up some stuff on occasion to give you guys some ideas, all that, all that type
of stuff.
But you know, probably the easiest way to start is to say that in, in 1990, in 1988,
that was kind of when Neville had been in business like three years or so.
And that's when he kind of started to sort out like favorites amongst what he had.
He had had to, he'd collected a number of cuttings from America by then.
He dealt with a bunch of breeders by then.
He had bred with a number of these things for three or four years in some cases at this
point.
And that's where his collection started to go from sort of a hodgepodge grab bag of things
to more of the famous stuff that we all became familiar with when we started getting into
weed history.
Northern Lights One, Northern Lights Two, G13, you know, Hash Plant, NL, you know, NL
Hazes and stuff like that.
So 88 to 90 is kind of really when people are probably like more familiar with that
stuff.
Yeah.
Because he'd, you know, he'd, he'd sort of settled on what worked for him.
Right.
Where before he'd been just kind of playing around with everything.
He really didn't know what he'd had.
People had sent him stuff, people had, he'd bought things off various folks and he, you
know, but these are just names to him, to us.
You get NL, you get Maple Leaf, you get Haze, that all means something because there's a
lot of history behind it.
But probably to him, there was just a lot of, they were just literally names from dudes.
Well, early on he was sourcing a lot of seeds and later on and over those three years he
became a breeder as opposed to just sourcing and passing on genetics.
He actually started working lines, which is, which is where these amazing lines come from.
Yeah.
And he had done a bunch of breeding and he sort of figured out what was an inconsistent
pain in the ass for lack of a better term.
And what was consistent, you know, Neville was always, he was always sensitive to what
people wanted.
You know, he wanted to sell seeds, he wanted to make people happy.
And so people weren't happy a lot of times with incredibly variable stuff that didn't
perform well.
And so he, you know, he had started to figure out what males were good to use repeatedly,
what females were champs and bred well with lots of different stuff.
And so we're gonna, we're gonna start kind of, you know, walking through some of that
type of thing.
Okay, which one do you want to start with first?
Maybe we should start with, we kind of talked a lot about Northern Lights last time.
That was probably one of the things that we expounded upon the most.
So maybe we could chat about, because 1988 is when things dramatically changed in that
regard.
From 85 to 87, he just sort of sold a variety of weird hybrids of Northern Lights and you
kind of got, you just bought straight NL, Northern Lights.
It was a grab bag of all the different types.
Well, by 88, he had decided that there was two lines that really made the most sense.
NL1 and NL2.
NL1 was sort of like a broad leafed Afghan, possibly you could call it a Bubba type, you
know, wide leaf, frosty, golf ball type, you know, nugs, almost maybe slightly yellowish.
And that was probably one of his most consistent lines he had because he took all the Northern
Lights and he bred them together.
Yeah.
Right.
Independently.
And so in 88, he offered what was called NL1F3 and NL2F3.
I wish I could put these up on the screen, but I can't because I don't have the controls.
Yeah, we'll just have to read it.
So basically, you know, those two things, they became, and we'll talk about a little
bit more later, but these kind of became like mainstays in cannabis for quite some time.
They became permanent additions, right?
As well as that, as well as offering them pure.
So let's figure he gets them at 84, he starts messing around with them in 85-ish.
By 88, he'd had, you know, three years of having them, he'd taken them to F3, right?
And he was releasing them as a more consistent variety.
And so that's the first, 88 is the first year that those two things pop up, right?
And it's also the first year that you start seeing, so in addition to offering both of
those strains as straight itself, you start seeing NL2 and NL1 being used as breeding
males in all kinds of stuff that he had, right?
NL1, there's probably nothing that he used as much as a breeding male as NL1.
Is that the biggest focus on the company as a male overall, looking back?
Yeah, I would say so.
I mean, you can look at stuff and, you know, a lot of the stuff that he had, you know,
that he got as cuttings, for instance, like hash plant.
Hash plant, he first offered his hash plant by NL1.
He gets Big Bud as a cutting.
He offers it as Big Bud by NL1.
You know, he gets a variety of things and he starts crossing it by NL1.
88 is interesting too because, you know, he had gotten these old haze seeds from Sam
Skunkman and in addition to some other people in Holland.
And 88 is the first year that any kind of haze hybrid pops up.
And it's one that maybe a lot of people haven't heard of, right?
It's very weird.
It's haze by NL1.
So it was only offered for one year.
But what's unique about it is that all the other haze hybrids he offered used haze as
a male.
This actually was a female that he found that he called Haze B.
Yes.
Right.
So there's this one year where all of a sudden you could get Haze B by NL1 and of all things
it was NL1 Rural Alice.
So that's the first time that haze pops up that I'm aware of in a catalog in Holland.
I think so.
Yeah.
You know, that's that's you think you're right.
And it was because he hadn't settled on yet.
You know, he was still experimenting a little bit, but he'd figured out some things.
Yeah.
Right.
So he'd gone to America and he had acquired through Jorge Cervantes connections in the
Pacific Northwest, in the Oregon, Washington area.
Jorge had hooked him up with some unknown growers and those unknown growers gave him
G13 and what became known as the Pacific Northwest Hash Plant.
Both of those things ended up getting used pretty extensively in future years.
Yeah.
Right.
So, you know, he he also I don't know if I don't know if Matt can show it or not, but
he the 87 update.
I don't know.
I can't do it.
You don't have you don't know if you can't do it.
So he offered this 87 update.
One of the things that was cool about Neville is that he he gave a lot more data on what
the hell he was doing versus most other breeders.
It was extensive, especially in the 87 update.
That's really like more data than most growers back then would have even given a fuck about.
I'm glad he did.
He lays it out.
Right.
So, you know, he he starts talking about it and he talks about basically both the hash
plant and the big bud that he crossed to NL1.
Yes.
And then he took that and he back crossed it.
Males of that back to the original.
And so that's how he became that's how big bud and hash plant actually got offered is
as separate strains.
Yeah.
Is he used NL1 to be X them for, you know, so so they're actually, you know, he never
had seed lines of those.
Right.
So and he lays out like extensive detail.
I can't show it to you on the screen right now, but he kind of lays out like his like
step by step how he figured it out.
Yeah.
Like what you know, what you know, what you know, what you know, what you could look for,
all that type of stuff.
And so that's when 88 is when a lot of.
That's when a lot of the famous stuff that we all know of really pops up.
The G13 hash plant, I think, pops up that year.
I think, you know, it does.
And then, you know, he you know, he found some of these some of these indica strains,
these you know, he some of these indica strains were a lot more consistent than what he was
working with.
And so once you find consistency, you start crossing them to different things and you
start you know, you start getting these various hybrids.
Sure.
Of such.
So you know, I don't know.
And then 89 90 is really when like he solidified the sort of the lineup as it were.
And that lineup ended up staying pretty consistent in in the seed bank catalog and even going
into sensei.
A lot of that stuff ended up getting ported over.
So you could kind of look at it.
And if you're thinking about it in that way, I would say probably by the late 80s.
Probably the three most consistent females that he used were NL 5.
G 13.
Yep.
And hash plant.
Yep.
Those those were sort of the three most common indica that he would use as as as standard
females.
The hash plant.
This is the PNW hash plant cutting.
Still looks very similar.
After all these years, it still looks similar.
But it's kind of ugly.
Very.
To be had to be perfectly honest about it.
Not the by modern standards, not particularly pretty.
Not.
And then as far as males go.
By 89 90, you would say that the the most common males he used was like I said before,
was certainly NL one.
He also used NL to a bunch.
Yeah.
You know, in you know, he you had Northern Lights five by Northern Lights two.
You had G 13 by NL two.
Yeah.
Had northern.
You had all kinds of stuff by NL one.
Yeah.
Hawaiian indica was by NL one.
Big Bud was by NL one.
Hash plant was by NL one.
That haze I spoke about was by NL one.
Hawaiian.
Yeah.
All that stuff.
I'll answer one quick question.
I see it coming on the thing.
People talk about the airborne in the Pacific G 13 cuts.
Those are a little hazy, but it's most likely they're not pure G 13.
They're most likely a G 13 by NL two like that.
Like that would be Fino popping out of the seeds.
The airborne popped from Pacific is a lot different.
That one that one is a lot has a lot more of a cloudy history.
We know the breeders that offered it and stuff, but it never quite panned out the same as
airborne as far as producing quality and stuff similar to G 13.
So yeah.
So and then aside from NL one and NL two, the other probably two most common males that
he used by 89 90 would have been the haze male and skunk one, which he's now the hay
C, a C, a C. He, you know, the hay story, it's probably, we could probably talk about
it a little bit.
Yeah.
If you want to brush up on it, brush on it, we can brush on it.
So so Sam's got man fleas America and he comes over to your, he comes over to Europe
and he's trying to get set up and he has skunk one and hay seeds.
And then from Mel Frank, he has Durban poison and Afghani one seeds.
And he has a couple other seed lines that he'd collected orange, California orange.
I think that was from Rob Clark.
Oh, was that from Rob?
Okay.
So he had a number of things.
Um, Paul, uh, Paul, you know, he had a number of things from Rob.
Rob followed him out later.
Early Pearl, early girl.
Yeah.
The early girl, the, um, you know, the Pearl stuff, early Pearl, uh, some of the Mexicans
that that Neville offered, uh, those were from Sam initially, but they were from, um,
but they were from Rob.
Yeah.
So Sam ended up coming over, Sam ended up coming over to, um, to Europe first in New
York.
He kind of brought a hodgepodge of various, uh, collectors and, and people's lines.
Right.
Yeah.
Um, and so, uh, so, you know, there's, there's a, there's a debate between, um, well, it's
not a debate anymore because Neville's passed unfortunately, but there was a long debate
that was likely never to be solved where, um, Sam has a number of stories about the
early Hayes and how it happened.
Neville has his own stories that could be an entire podcast in itself.
Yeah.
But suffice to say that when Sam came over to, uh, Europe, he sold some Hayes seeds to
Neville.
Uh, he sold some Hayes seeds to, uh, the founder of SSSE.
Um, he gave some to the owner of, uh, positronics, um, and maybe someone else, maybe.
Um, but there was a, there was a few people, at least, at least three people are documented
to have gotten, um, stuff from some, from Sam, right.
When he came over.
Right.
Yeah.
I think that's been pretty well done with the Hayes.
Yeah.
With the Hayes.
So, uh, Sam, so Neville, Neville, Neville story just real quick is they were a bunch
of old seeds.
He cracked a bunch of them.
Uh, most of them did not pop.
Uh, and he, the first female he got, he unfortunately killed because it never finished flowering.
It took forever.
It was a huge pain in the ass.
He got another female, which is the B, which I spoke about, um, which I spoke about earlier
as being the first actual release.
And he got two males, uh, A and C.
They both ended up becoming kind of famous C much more so.
And he, he, he crossed, he crossed the aid to basically everything, every good Indica
he had, uh, and he made a mistake with his workers in 89 and he lost the male early.
So ever, he never sold, he never sold any commercial, uh, he never sold any commercial
seat of a.
So everybody, everybody that, um, that gets NL five Hayes or any of that other kind of
Hayes crosses, silver Hayes, all that, it's all using the C male.
Cause that's the one that survived.
Yeah.
Right.
Uh, and strangely, um, it seems like Neville had more success finding fire in the hay seeds
that he got than other people did.
Yeah.
That's what it sounds like.
That's what it sounds like.
And it sounds like he had 10 seats total is what it sounds like.
So he, so there's debate in that and there's camp that believes that he got similar things
to everyone else.
Yeah.
And he just had better Indica's to cross them to than anybody else.
Yeah.
There's another camp that thinks that, um, Neville claimed that Sam sold him old seeds
that he said would have a low germination rate that were from 69 to 70 and maybe Sam
when he first got there, sold some original stuff before he did his open pollinations
in Holland and the people that got ahold of that original first batch of Hayes that he
brought over with him, got better quality Hayes than people did later on.
Yeah.
Uh, it's not really a debate that we can solve being that it's two dudes from 1984 and 1985
and they disagree.
Um, you know, but we do have, you know, all three guys that he, that, well, Neville and
the, you know, the guy from SSC and the positive chronic gentlemen, they all agree that they
got Hayes seed from Sam at the same time, at the same time, same year, same time, same
bag, everything, all that kind of stuff.
And so we know, you know, we have, we have, we have documentation from others that, that
it certainly happened.
Right.
And so that's when, um, by 80, by 89, 90, that's when all the famous stuff you start
hearing about, which is NL five by skunk one by two G 13 by NL two, um, you know, NL five
by, I think NL five by Hayes was actually released via catalog.
Not until 1889, 90.
There's a pretty picture.
And I was just looking earlier and it's NL five.
It's a, I think it's a much prettier picture than on the back of a lot of the catalogs
that they show where it's just like a jumbled up close shot of some kind of frosty leaves.
This one is a much better, I think it gives a much better picture of the bud structure,
overall growth patterns and whatnot.
So that's really interesting because that's the famous NL five cutting.
Yeah.
A, uh, I'll answer a quick question just cause I was talking about it.
Somebody just asked where's Tom Hills Hayes fits in.
Yeah.
And, uh, you know, I would say that, uh, Matt knows a bit more about that than I, but I
believe that Tom Hill got his Hayes stock from positronics.
Yeah.
It's the old positronics Hayes.
I don't know if, I think it's the old positronics Hayes 19 based on all that.
So that that's where, um, Tom Hills Hayes comes from one of the, uh, you know, one of
the, one of the first people that gave, gave Hayes to, um, positronics.
And let's see here.
So lost my train of thought for a second answering that question, but the NL five that he was
just holding up, maybe we can talk about that for a second because it's interesting.
So Neville, there's, we were talking about on the previous podcast, how there was always
two famous cuttings of five.
Um, on the interview that Matt did with Greg Seattle, Greg of Northern lights fame, he
said that he got a cutting of NL five and it was from his friend Herbie, Steve Murphy's
Afghan and crossed it to a Colombian Mexican.
Yeah.
And that was the cutting that he sent Neville.
Neville claims he got that cut and he didn't like it very much compared to the cut that
he found Neville story is that he popped a bunch of NL five seed lines.
Cause that's one of the lines he got from Greg and most of it was an Indica sativa hybrid
mess.
Yeah.
Equally useful.
But he got this one plant that was what he called the throwback plant that looked pure
Afghan and had no influence of sativa whatsoever.
And as you see this short stocky dense, budded, frosty picture, I would say leads up to, um,
to Neville's, you know, Neville's story being correct.
Yeah.
Um, and probably having some truth to it because I would look at that thing and I would not
say it had any Colombian or Mexican influence.
I would instantly say that it looks pure Afghani.
It would look like a pure Afghan.
Yeah.
To me at least.
So, um, you know, and, uh, so yeah, I mean that right there, that's the famous NL five
Hayes.
That's the famous cutting that got crossed a Hayes that got crossed the skunk one that
got crossed in Northern lights too.
Um, and it's really, you know, we mentioned it before, but there was never a pure seed
line of NL five offered.
There was hybrids prep, right?
There was only hybrids offered.
So, um, you know, uh, that's the cutting.
There we go.
That discuss the NL five.
Do you want to go into Maple Leaf Indica, the big bud stuff like that?
Did we cover that?
I don't think we covered that too, too much.
Basically once he, once he found that NL five cutting, um, like I said before, that's when
he started crossing it, it became one of his standards in, in, in the situation.
Um, and you know, he had, you know, like he crossed it to skunk one that became an
extremely famous strain, uh, five by skunk one and L five Hayes is probably the most
famous line he did.
Yeah.
I buy two is also super famous.
And uh, so you know, he, NL five G 13 hash plant, those became sort of his standard indicates
yeah.
His, his, his best producing females, uh, skunk one Hayes NL two and NL one became his
most common, um, males that he used.
And he offered, obviously he never offered a pure NL five line or a pure, uh, Hayes line,
but he did offer a pure NL one, pure L two pure skunk one.
Um, you know, that type of thing.
I, you know, I never got to ask him why the, why of that, why didn't you ever offer Hayes
Hayes pure or NL five pure?
You know, I think, I think part of the reason why he never offered a Hayes pure is because
he, he screwed up early on and he lost too much of it.
He talked about later on wishing that he could, um, that he could cross the, uh, that he would
have been able to cross the B to the a and he, you know, but he, he lost the B early,
um, cause he didn't realize what he had.
He lost the a on an accident.
And so he sort of ended up with, uh, he sort of ended up with not very much.
He didn't know that he was like his most consistent.
Yeah.
What do you have?
What do you have left?
Yeah.
So, um, you know, and then strangely it seems like for whatever reason, all the other people
that got Hayes, nothing much came up.
Yeah.
No matter how much breeding or crossing they did, nothing became famous.
Like the later Neville Hayes is so like when I was going to, when I was going to coffee
shops, uh, coffee shops were, um, you know, they were full of, of C five, which is a NL
five.
He C eight, which is NL five.
He's a, uh, a G 13, which is G 13.
Hayes a, they all, they also had a G 13.
Hey, see, they were full of Neville work.
Yeah.
Um, they didn't really carry much posse work.
They didn't carry any Sam work.
They didn't carry any of those things.
Um, you know, even though they were easily accessible, those were standard people in
Holland.
So, uh, there must've been a significant quality difference.
Yeah.
Had to have been.
Um, and you know, I think even today is there, is there a famous Sam cut?
Is there a famous, you know, it's all the stuff that they do is not really all the stuff
that they do is, is all the stuff that's hoarded over there is, um, you know, is, uh, what's
Neville cuts.
Yeah.
And, and, and right now I just want to take the time.
If any of you older judge gentlemen are watching this and have all these cuts, give me a, give
me a ring.
I'd love to just to be able to chat about them and get, and get further histories on
a lot of these.
Yeah.
I mean, a lot of this stuff, you know, one thing that should be mentioned about this
is, uh, all this stuff happened on a different continent and you know, what, uh, the story
sounds pretty straightforward and simple right now, but the amount of talking and time
and energy and interviewing people and trying to make sure that like, it's not just one
person's opinion and that we can get other people to back up opinions on this stuff takes
a long time.
Yeah.
I mean, me and you have been working steady on this for, I want to say three years now,
just me and you together.
And we've done our work on our own obviously, but like we have been pushing hard on this.
So it's taken a long time to even get up to this point to be able to say any of these
things positively.
Yeah.
And I mean, when we say I'm positively, uh, most of what we're saying is generally accepted,
generally accepted fact for now, like you said, if there's some old timers or whatever,
with some secret information out there, that's not well known.
Most of this history is oral.
Some of these old guys have beefs with one another.
Some of them don't like one another very much.
Yeah.
They have their own egos and their own versions of history and events.
And so, uh, see there's a guy right there that just said his 70 year old neighbor has
had NL two since 93.
If that's the case, we would love to talk to you.
Yeah.
Right.
Because there could be pockets of these things that survive.
And the hard part now is that for a long time, nobody gave a shit about these, uh,
about these strains.
And so the information was a little bit more verifiable because there wasn't anybody trying
to claim rep or trying to claim, we have this joke, we call it pre pre, um, where now ancient
old, whatever has come out of the woodwork.
So it gets a lot harder to weed through who has what.
Yeah.
I was talking with another gentleman that we're, we're starting an interview with.
Um, and he was very important in the Dutch seat scene and he was talking about some of
his old lines possibly popping up in the U S and this is something that happens every
few years.
Someone says, I've got this stash of X, Y, Z.
I've kept, you know, Mason jars full of every single one and done reproduction since 80
something.
And it's, it's hard unless you have extensive knowledge about these old lines and it runs
up.
How are you ever going to tell him?
No, that's not correct.
It's, it's a hard situation.
Yeah.
I mean, there's a guy saying you, you know, there's some old school growers, um, there's
pockets in America that aren't on Instagram that aren't on, on some of these never got
on the forums that live in police States, um, that have kept their circles quite tight.
Um, they don't, they might not even know how rare or how cool some of the stuff that's
been within their little circle that they've just been growing and smoking on might be,
you know, so we still have hope every time a bullshit artist comes up, I'll freely admit
that there's a small part of me that wishes it was true.
I just want it to be true.
I want all the stories to be true.
I want every ancient rare being imaginable to be accessible, cuts and stuff like to pop
up and be, um, you know, and be available to people.
Sadly, there's a lot of people out there that are just trying to make a quick buck.
Uh, and when you sell beans, I mean, think about how many people have been selling beans
of a roadkill skunk for the last two or three years now.
Right.
Yeah.
Um, but I haven't seen any roadkill skunk flour.
Yeah.
It's hard.
It's hard to get finished flour with roadkill skunk turps.
Everybody's figuring that out, you know, and you can sell beans for quite some time before
nobody, you know, and exactly.
It's going to take a while before they realize that you're not finding roadkill skunk.
Exactly.
We've sold a lot of beans and there's people that have dropped thousands of dollars of,
you know, hopes and dreams, uh, and spent months hunting and they get some floral citrus
skunk one.
Citrus skunk one.
Resold them skunk one.
It's like, you know, slight funk, slight whatever, not roadkill, not clear skunk turps.
Mm-hmm.
So, you know, it's, uh, it's sad in that way.
Um, you know, people were asking some other stuff and, you know, we got a lot to cover,
so we'll, we'll move on a bit, but to say 89, 90 is when Neville really established
most of the strains that kind of became famous.
Yes.
Yeah.
That's when they all started popping up.
That's when they all started popping up.
That's when he'd sort of figured out what he had, what was consistent to breed with,
what made sense, what lines people liked.
Um, you know, he's had this running joke that people would ask for the highest level of
quality imaginable and if he sold them an awesome Indica that was a hybrid of two pure
Indica's and it yielded light shit, they'd bitch and bitch and moan and whine and complain
because they wanted the best possible and they also wanted to crush yields.
Yes.
So that's always been a difficulty in, in cannabis.
Um, you know, people want the best, people want the greatest turps.
Uh, there's lots of people out there in commercial world that don't want to grow anything that
takes longer than nine or 10 weeks.
Yeah.
They don't be a pain to trim.
They want it to be LARPy.
They don't want it to be finicky or a low meter.
Massive yelping, frosty, the highest amount of turps.
Yeah.
Everybody wants 20% THC.
I want the strongest, most potent weed you can possibly imagine with great turps and
I want donkey dick buds and I want it done in 50 days.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But you know, rarely does that occur.
Yeah.
Same package sadly.
Yeah.
You know, a lot of the, a lot of the famous strains that we all smoke, um, from a production
standpoint are annoying.
Yeah.
Very much so.
Especially in the last decade or so it's gotten worse.
Nobody would ever pick to grow cookies.
No.
Nobody would ever pick to grow cush where it's like dink, dink, dink, dink, dink, dink
lugs here and there.
They don't hold themselves up.
I mean, if you were like a commercial farmer in the real world, um, you know, they'd be
looking for some kind of like green crack blue dream type structure, solid top to bottom
buds, easy to grow, fairly fast finishing.
You know, that's what, from a production standpoint, uh, and a, and a happiness standpoint, that's
what you want.
Yeah.
But you know, um, even sour diesel, you know, that yields pretty well, takes a long time,
kind of feathery makes a lot of D buds.
If you mess it up, it can be really LARPy, um, you know, super tasty and it works really
good.
Burns really nice, but it's not blue dream.
No, it's not.
It's not, you know, Barry white or something like that.
It's not something that's just covered in nugs.
And so, um, so yeah, so, uh, the, uh, uh, maybe we should talk about, so he created
all this stuff.
Um, Neville was the largest, there was really only two, you know, there's other people that
will claim to have seed banks.
Yeah.
Since he seats had a tiny seed bank, positronics had a small seed, there was other seed banks
in Holland, but there was really only two seat.
And this is really why we're spending so much time talking about it is in the eighties,
there was really only two seed banks that were selling a lot of seed in America and
in Amsterdam and it's selling to America.
And they were the first two seed banks that really offered worldwide sales to anybody
that was willing to come to Holland and buy them or out there, their mail order sheet
and send them an envelope with some money and a list.
Yep.
And that was super sativa seed club, uh, and the seed bank, which was Neville.
Yes.
The TV seed club started a little bit after Neville.
Um, it had similar things to him and had some of their own stuff.
Um, but Neville was the, he was the elephant, he was the big dog.
He was, he was the, he was the one selling the vast majority of stuff that people in
America were buying from Holland was Neville's.
Yes.
And that really, that's really what makes them so important because the, uh, the seed
game is super diversified now.
He basically almost had a monopoly.
Yeah.
And it's why all these strains that are around today usually have something of Neville's
in it, if not both sides.
Yeah.
And so that there's a lot of, there's a lot of Neville work in a lot of modern strains.
Yeah.
Um, simply because he was the only game and he was one of the only games in town and tons
and tons of people got his stuff and then they bred his stuff into stuff they already
had in America.
Yeah.
And so his stuff got blended in and you know, his stuff got super famous.
Basically the NL five Hayes became a phenomenon in New York.
It started being great.
It started being sold.
You know, they call it the heist Hayes, you know, the piff, the church, the, this, the,
that, the whatever.
It kind of massive, a massive thing.
Um, and the super skunk, uh, you know, became super famous, uh, as well.
He's talked about how super skunk and NL five Hayes were his two top selling varieties.
Yeah.
You know, and so enormous amounts of those seeds got sold.
Right.
Yeah.
And that's sort of what, uh, maybe we can talk.
So the 90 catalog is the final catalog of Neville's ownership of the seed bank.
Yeah.
I don't think I have that one here.
Um, and that there's a couple, there's the most famous thing that came out of the 90
was he released, um, super skunk.
Yes.
Uh, super skunk was, you know, when sadly, uh, Sam did not like skunk.
He didn't.
Well, you gotta say Sam likes skunk one.
He did not like skunk smells.
He didn't like skunk aroma.
Yeah.
Aroma skunk one.
And he tried to breed the skunk out of it.
That is by his own quote, right?
Yes, he did.
He has his own quote.
He was going for more of the citrus grapes, sweet floral.
He liked those aromas.
He was going for bud structure and other things.
He didn't like the rank skunk.
He tried to, uh, this, I'll answer another question.
The silver pearl came out as a, as a single strain, I think in the last two years of the
seed bank, uh, 88, 89 and 90.
He offered silver pearl.
And I, I quote me on the, on silver pearl.
It's uh, it's, uh, early pearl something.
I think it's, I think it's early pearl.
It might be NL five early pearl skunk one, something along those lines.
Something like that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Uh, let's see.
I only see early pearl improved in this one and it doesn't list anything, but yeah, it's
something like that.
It's something like that.
And he also released a silver pearl by Hayes.
And those couple of years, which was called silver Hayes, uh, at the time, uh, he had
called it, he called it silver pearl by Hayes.
Um, it got shortened to silver, silver Hayes at Sensi.
So he, um, you know, there was a guy named Jim Ortega that we'll talk about real briefly.
And, um, Jim Ortega, he traded with Jim gave him Cush for garlic bud.
Um, uh, maple leaf Indica and Hawaiian Indica.
Yeah.
He offered Hawaiian Indica, um, by NL one in the last couple of years of his catalog,
maybe three years of his catalog.
He offered a maple leaf.
Um, a pure.
Yes.
Called it a Afghan breeder packs, I think, where you could literally buy some of the
original seed stock that Jim Ortega gave him, you know, amazing what that had been.
Yeah.
I mean, and he, um, and he offered garlic bud is a pure strain.
Uh, the only thing that never really got offered is a pure that never really got messed with
too much was Cush for, yeah.
There is a thing he sold called Cush by Cush, which he said, Cush by Cush, which he said
he crossed his two best pushes to, um, you know, uh, to each other and his two best pushes
were Cush for an NL two.
Do you know what year that one's in?
I was trying to show it, but I can't find it.
I'm going to say that one's in.
Oh, here it is.
That one might be an 87.
Here's at least one of them in the 89 talking about it.
I don't know how clear it is.
And he also offered skunk Cush, which was, and so that's, that's, you know, and then,
uh, um, so maybe we're getting pretty in depth here, but maybe, maybe we should talk about,
um, his fame led to issues, right?
Yes.
Let's get into that.
He's selling millions of dollars in seed to America.
Yeah.
It's the Reagan era and then the George Bush era.
It's the height of the war on drugs, large penalties, weeds, totally illegal everywhere.
Um, and there was a situation in which a, um, a hydro store got raided, um, from whatever
reason, some kind of, some kind of action.
And they discovered that this guy was supplying a bunch of growers.
And in that they found money and Neville's catalogs.
And they realized that, uh, they realized that he was selling the dollars and seed,
um, to America.
And you notice in some of these back catalogs, it always says that it's shipped from the
U S or like in the high times, uh, ads for Neville's things that would always say shipped
from U S.
Well, what's interesting about that is this isn't factual, but I believe it to be true.
That Neville, I think had partners that he smuggled seeds into America.
Yeah.
And then you would send Neville money and then he would communicate what you needed
and they would ship the seeds from within the U S.
Yeah.
I think he was pretty, um, he was transparent about that when it was going on.
And so as a result of that, that meant that every seed batch didn't have to go through
customs.
Yes.
And so he just had to get it through customs occasionally and then he could sell it within
the United States.
Well, if you can imagine, uh, the DEA and the government at the time took a pretty poor
view of that aspect.
Yeah.
Right.
And so, um, operation green merchant happens where they decide to raid, um, everyone, every
growth store in the United for the most part, they rated the growth stores in the United
States.
They did a big push.
Right.
And, uh, Neville gets caught, I believe in Australia and he gets busted.
Okay.
Uh, and he ends up spending a good amount of time in jail, better part of the year.
Yeah.
Um, and so that, you know, we're not gonna, this, this, this particular episode, we're
not going to talk very much about SSC.
Yeah.
We're going to save that for a different time.
Um, but what that did is that sort of, uh, um, led to a domino effect of sorts.
It had a domino effect of sorts.
A super sativa seed club decided to stop.
Um, because they saw what was going on with Neville and it was pretty serious.
Neville was already in, was obviously in jail and, uh, this gave an opportunity for others
who had seen how, how Neville and the super sativa seed club were doing right.
It left a void in Amsterdam.
Uh, in Holland it was still, it was legal at that time obviously to produce seed for,
um, produce seed.
Yeah.
It was the only places in the world where it was totally legal to produce cannabis seed.
Yeah.
So, uh, Neville was sitting in jail.
Um, he was fighting extradition.
They didn't want to extradite Neville to America because, um, they wanted to put him in jail
for life in prison.
Yeah.
And Australia and Holland, which he was a citizen of both didn't agree with that.
Yeah.
So he was stuck in jail.
Uh, and he, um, you know, there was all of a sudden there was no seed banks.
Yeah.
There was no seed banks left.
It caused a bunch of, it caused a bunch of ripple effects.
A whole bunch of growers in America got busted, um, to do their relationships with various,
uh, hydro stores and stuff like that.
Um, you know, uh, Greg Seattle, Greg talked in his interview with Matt about how by the
late eighties and that era they had basically lost everything because of a series of rolling
busts.
Uh, there were heavy presence.
They were really going after people, electricity, all this kind of stuff.
And so, um, since he, which was founded by Ben and Alan drunkers, they saw an opportunity
and they offered to bail Neville out of jail and, uh, give him money to help him fight
his situation as long as he sold them their company.
Yes.
And that was the invention of since he, so that was the death of the seed bank.
Yeah.
And since he, uh, since he absorbed him and all of a sudden went from a nobody to the
biggest game in town.
That's right.
Um, and they bought, uh, they, they bought his seat back, right?
Yeah.
So suddenly they start offering, um, you know, and we actually, the sensei 91 seed bank catalog
is one of the rarest catalogs, um, because it only was out for, it was obviously only
out for one year and it shows the merger of the seed bank with sensei and they have a
much, much more limited catalog than what they offered in the future.
And a much more limited one than Neville was currently offering.
But by the time he split, so, um, yeah.
And so as a result of that, uh, sadly for Neville, Neville went from being the owner
of the largest, most successful seed bank in the world to the head breeder of sensei.
Yeah.
He lost his company.
He lost his self control.
Uh, the government hated him.
Yeah.
And he was trapped in Holland for a long time because the, the America wanted to come
steal him, guide him to America and have him face charges of life in prison for seed sales.
Yes.
Holland refused to extradite him because since seed sales were legal and he was a citizen
of Holland, they were not going to extradite one of their citizens for doing something
that was legal in their own country.
Yeah.
And we go to life in prison in some other country.
In some other country, he is not a citizen of other countries, not a citizen.
So he had his freedom, but he was stuck in Holland.
The DEA and Interpol was after his ass.
Yeah.
And he lost the biggest, most, most famous seed company and had to give it to Ben and
Alan drunkers and work for them.
Yeah.
And he didn't even lose the castle as well at that point.
Yeah.
He lost the castle.
Um, there was a number of projects he had that when he was in jail, never saw the light
of day.
Yeah.
He was putting on releasing a, uh, NL five seed line in 90 in 91.
Yep.
Um, he had taken the NL five cutting that Matt showed earlier and he had BX it like
eight times.
Yeah.
Um, he used NL one, like I said, with everything, uh, he BX did eight times and he was planning
on releasing it in, um, 1991 and it disappeared.
Yeah.
That project disappeared.
It never got released again.
And so there was some things, uh, somebody asked if they could see it again.
Which one?
The NL five.
The NL five.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Here we go.
So, yeah.
So obviously that sucked for Neville, uh, spending a good 10 months.
Jail is no fun.
Jail foods, no fun being in, in, in, you know, concrete jungle, no fun.
Your company's no fun.
Yeah.
Your company's no, I mean, yeah, it's like basically they were like, Hey, we'll do you
a solid.
We'll get you out of jail and we'll get you back to Holland, but we want your shit.
Yeah.
By a minor competitor at that someone that wasn't even close to the level he, since he
wasn't even close to where super city VC club or they were in no, and so you're sitting
in jail and your options are keep sitting in jail or have these sort of a greasy Dutch
businessmen, uh, offer to get you out and get you home and give you some money and buy
your company.
Yeah.
It sounds real good at the time.
Sure.
You know, he chose the get out of jail.
Yeah.
You know, uh, card, but then he lost control.
Yeah.
So, um, you know, that was sort of the start of, you know, by the time that, uh, Matt,
Matt can speak to this a little bit.
He got to communicate quite a bit with Neville.
I got to meet a few times.
Uh, I've chatted with him a number of times.
Matt had a much longer back and forth with him, uh, much later in his career.
I said it's super dirty.
And well, I just mean that, you know, I know what you mean.
They communicated a lot more over a lot more months, a lot more directly.
Yeah.
Then, you know, I met him through other people.
I used to go to Holland quite a bit to get seeds and I ended up meeting him a few times.
I was a young guy.
It's not like I had some kind of a, you know, massive, uh, information dump from Neville
to myself.
You know, I wasn't interviewing him or anything like that.
I was a little shell shocked, uh, meeting somebody like that.
So, um, but you know, Matt can attest that, uh, that was sort of the start of Neville's
bitterness.
Yeah.
Uh, you know, uh, things Neville paid more of a price than most.
Yeah, he did.
Or, uh, spreading seeds for overgrowing the government for that kind of thing.
And if you look at it, he was owed the most for doing this.
And so, you know, he felt like most people lived off the back of his work.
Yeah.
And it's not necessarily incorrect.
And he, he never, yeah, he never got, um, he never, he never got to reap the benefits
as much of his work as other people did.
Um, his life got burned down on any number of different occasions.
Yeah.
To be said, you know, this is kind of a personal part, not, um, not, uh, not the greatest thing
to talk about with Neville, but he was a herald.
Yeah.
That's actually the reason why he went from Australia to Holland was, uh, you know, you
know, he was getting, he was heavily addicted in the early eighties or he was getting treatment.
Um, and so I'm sure, um, that some of his life issues were certainly self-inflicted
because when you struggle with addiction like that, your life is, um, your life is tough.
Tell me about it.
You have, you have, you have ups and downs.
Sure.
Uh, you have issues, you know, you, you probably wasn't the easiest person to deal with.
He probably had moods, major mood swings, major mood swings, you know, better days than
others, better months than others type of thing.
Um, you know, and then on top of that, like, you know, a lot of times really talented people,
um, sometimes they're paying the ass.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Intelligent people, talented people can be very hard to communicate with.
Sure.
Um, but what I will say about Neville that was different than most people is that most
Dutch, which is some, which is different than a little bit of America.
Certainly there's lots of people in America that are just like this.
Yeah.
Um, in, he was probably one of the only Dutch that really loved the plant and really did
things as far as the famous Dutch.
I'm not like a big general statement about everybody, but as far as like the, you know,
the Dutch are pretty famous for being extremely business oriented.
Correct.
They'll, they'll tell you the truth as much as it helps their bottom line.
Yeah.
And if it doesn't help their bottom line, they could give a shit.
Yeah.
And Neville was extremely open about lines and strains and what he used and how he did
it, what he did it with and where he got it from.
Yeah.
There's nobody in the Dutch scene that we know more about who he got strains from and
what he did to create strains, all everything.
Yeah.
A lot of other seed banks in Holland.
It's a mystery.
They have zero interest in telling you.
Yeah.
They've had decades to tell you they don't care.
Yeah.
So there's a lot of things that might be popping up that, that, uh, are, are, are pretty interesting.
That's why I wanted to make a qualifier because he's by no means is the only one, but there
are plenty of, you know, and that's the same thing is that, um, you know, Ben, uh, the
drunkards are still alive.
Correct.
Yeah.
But they're terrible interview.
Yeah.
And they don't care about history.
No, that's not their interest at all.
He will tell you to this day that they have every original plant known to man.
They feed with all the same plants.
They still make their own seeds.
They still make their own seeds.
Even been verified by any number of different sources that they outsourced it to Spain sometime
ago.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And that they lost a lot of plants.
Um, but you can't get actual history out of them.
Correct.
Yeah.
They don't care.
It's hard.
Neville Neville cared while he had the seed bank.
He gave a bunch of information.
He was honest about when he lost certain strains, hopped up on Mr. Nice a long time later in
like Oh nine, 10, 11 era.
He asked a lot of questions pretty directly.
Yeah.
Um, the drunkards and sensei are a black hole.
Yeah.
They don't tell you shit.
Major black hole.
They don't care.
And I don't know that they even know shit to tell.
Um, they, you're some obviously they do and they were a part of, but I don't know that
they would have any kind of knowledge about any of the breeding going on at sensei.
And so, you know, this is, um, so, so that's kind of, I guess we kind of segued into sensei.
Yeah.
So headed into sensei, we're headed into sensei.
So Neville, you know, Neville had the seed bank, most famous seed bank created a lot
of the most famous strains, gets busted, spends much time in jail, gets bailed out, loses
this company.
Now he's head breeder at sensei.
Yeah.
And so it took some time to transition.
So Matt and I have spent a bunch of time analyzing this and, um, I don't know the best way to
put it, but sensei, there was certain famous things like NL five Hayes and a super skunk
that they left alone because the aim already had such great, uh, that's that, uh, it had
already been marketed under that name and was already so successful if they didn't have
a need to change.
There's actually some pretty good comments happening.
I'll get to them in a minute.
Maybe we can even shit.
You can't see stuff.
So, um, so anyway, well this is, this is super long winded, but it is pretty important.
And the reason why it's so important is that the, a lot, a lot, a lot of our famous strains
and our named elite cuts from the nineties.
And a lot of the things that went into the famous cuts that we all work with today came
directly from Neville's work because he was the biggest game in town.
Um, probably from 1985 to the late nineties.
Um, he was the biggest force in cannabis.
And so as a result of that, the tons of people in America were getting his seeds and, um,
and okay.
So there's, there's stuff coming in that people are saying that's actually pretty cool.
So we'll start chatting about that.
So, uh, so since he buys the seed bank and they, in my opinion, they wanted to obscure
exactly how much of the seed bank they had taken and they wanted to trade.
So like I said, super skunk and L five Hayes, some of the stuff that was super famous already,
they left alone.
But they were the first company to start trademarking names and cannabis, which still
goes on today and sucks.
Yeah.
There's still battles going on about, about that.
And so, uh, I see some stuff people are talking about early Shiva shanty had garlic butt in
it.
Anyone remember the early Shiva shanty that threw garlic Finos?
That type of catalogs.
It actually talks about that specifically that very first catalog.
Yeah.
So that's pretty funny in the sense that my opinion is, is that Shiva shanty is garlic
butt.
Yeah.
One of them is one of them at one point was garlic, but you're sure.
And so I'll try not to get too deep into it cause it's kind of a, it's, it's kind of a
nerdy subject.
But if you look at the seed bank catalogs and you look at the sensei catalogs, um, since
he ended up using a lot of Neville's stock photos, a lot of his verbiage and his descriptions,
just much shorter versions of them in his catalog.
Um, so, uh, they, she garlic bud disappears.
Yes.
But it becomes Shiva shanty, Shiva shanty one.
And it sounds like a hybrid of become Shiva shanty too.
Right.
They use the same, they use a lot of the same verbiage in describing Shiva shanty as Neville's
descriptions of garlic bud and the same picture.
They use the exact same photo.
Okay.
Um, another one that we could talk about is NL five skunk one becomes, becomes a Shiva
skunk.
Yep.
And that's actually the only one that they changed the name that in the sense he description,
they actually say it's actually NL five skunk one.
Yeah.
So they'll leave that in the description.
It's literally in the description.
They took it from NL five skunk one.
They called it Shiva.
They'd called it Shiva.
Yeah.
This is something that people will probably find extremely interesting.
Um, or maybe, maybe not, but Neville's NL two F three, he always referred to going back
early as the NL two, any description you can find in the seed bank catalog of any hybrids
he made.
Not only does he call it NL two, but he always calls it a Hindu Kush type.
Yeah.
So when Northern lights gets ported over from the seed bank, Northern lights one F three
become lean Northern lights.
Yeah.
Right.
Um, and you can actually tell because they in the sense he catalog, they list Northern
lights as a three time Indica winner.
Yep.
88, 89, 90 and you can look it up and NL one was the Indica winner in 88, 89, 90.
Yep.
And the little tail NL two becomes Hindu Kush.
Yes.
So since he changed the name, uh, and, and NL two, they use the same picture.
They use similar descriptions.
You can go back.
Um, even, even straight up in certain stuff like they, they sold a skunk Kush and they
called it skunk one by their best Hindu Kush.
Yeah.
Neville sells a skunk Kush at the seed bank and he calls it NL two by skunk one.
Yeah.
They call it the same name.
They have the same description except for they just call it Hindu Kush.
Yeah.
Right.
So NL two doesn't disappear.
It just gets a different name.
Yeah.
It's absorbed differently.
NL two is that there was another seed company that stole NL two and they sold NL two as
Dutch passion and they NL two under the name Oasis.
So NL two sort of drops off as a name, but it lives on in other names and that's sort
of art of, uh, that's sort of the start of, um, the rename game.
Yeah.
This is all the real early rename game.
So I'll just read off some renames for you guys.
Let's hear the renames.
Uh, I got, I got to look away at the camera so I can actually like see this little chart
I got going on, but Neville called it silver pearl by Hayes, uh, since he calls it silver
Hayes.
Yeah.
Um, garlic bud becomes Shiva shanty.
Uh, like I just said, and all one becomes Northern lights and L two becomes Hindu Kush
big skunk, which was big bud by skunk one at the sea simply becomes sensey skunk.
That's right.
Hash plant by NL one by Swazi becomes African queen.
That's my other nickname that a lot of people call me African queen.
Big bud by NL one simply becomes big bud Hawaiian Indica by NL one simply becomes Hawaiian Indica.
Yep.
Um, it was really only a few of the most famous like skunk one, uh, you know, NL five
Hayes super skunk that, uh, that kept the name.
Yeah.
They changed everything else, but they left us clues because they were fucking lazy.
Yeah.
Out of laziness, pure laziness.
They use the same pictures and they use a lot of the same verbiage and they even kept
the same yields and harvest harvest times and other data that Neville included.
Yeah.
Um, so they made it, so they made it, uh, and then they trademarked those things.
Yes.
So then all of a sudden they own the trademarks.
Yep.
You know, you, you're right.
So Shiva, like I said, Shiva shanty, it is garlic bud.
Yeah.
It uses the same verbiage in the description.
It uses the exact same photo from Neville catalogs.
It is, it is the garlic, but I had that pulled out earlier just to show to the, the two side
by side, but I can't remember where I put it.
It's yeah, we don't, I mean, it's, it's, it's, we could, we could, uh, we could go, we could
go in depth.
I'm trying to keep it relatively brief, but the point is, is that since he was trying
to obscure just how much they went from a little company that had barely anything to
the biggest company, um, the biggest company in Holland and, um, the timeline we're talking
right now, this is 1991.
Yeah.
Uh, this is, this is early to mid nineties.
Mr. Nice is, I'm just answering a question.
Mr. Nice is way, way later.
We probably won't even get to that part of cannabis today cause that didn't start early
2000s.
Yeah.
Neville's working as the head breeder for, um, for Sensi and we're not going to talk
about these companies very much, but it's probably good to mention that Neville not
only spawned Sensi seeds, but everybody working for Neville got their own ideas and he spawned
a lot.
Yeah.
So I don't know if, uh, um, well, yeah, somebody just posted Shiva Shanti is not garlic now.
Uh, it was sweet.
We'll get to why things aren't the way they are anymore.
Yeah.
But Adam Dunn from TH seeds, um, uh, does that how you pronounce his last name?
Who knows?
Adam, Adam from TH seeds.
Uh, Simon, who is famous for serious seeds.
Yeah.
Tony, who ended up making Sag Martha.
They all worked at Sensi under Neville.
Yeah.
And they, after leaving, uh, Tony and Simon started cerebral seeds in 1994 for one year
and then Tony made Sag Martha.
Uh, Simon made, um, serious and, um, you know, and, uh, uh, let's see.
And Adam, like I said, made THC.
Yeah.
Oh, um, you know, so Neville working with Neville, you know, uh, Neville sort of put
all four of those companies on the map.
Yep.
I, those companies would have existed if they hadn't been able to work either for Neville
under Neville, uh, since he bought Neville.
Um, so, you know, and I think that for most of Neville's time at Sensi, he was breeding
and doing a bunch of projects.
But you look at the catalogs that come out from those nineties and those early to mid
nineties period, and it's basically the seed bank catalog.
Yeah.
Basically, you know, there was a few things that Neville got rid of at the later era of
the seed bank.
Like he didn't really like Afghani one.
Yeah.
He sold it for the first few years of the seed bank and then he, and then he eliminated
it since he brought it back.
Um, there was a couple other strains that, uh, that popped up here and there, but for
the most part, um, since he was the seed bank continued and, uh, they, they absorbed
all of his history, you know, they started claiming from 85, they started the originator
of all these various strains, sort of like, you know, since they bought it, they bought
all the history too.
Um, and all that.
And so Neville was working for some, uh, some Dutch businessmen that he didn't really
like.
Yeah.
Now it ends up.
Yeah.
So, um, so he worked for Sensi and we can, since nothing much changed from the seed bank
to Sensi, um, we don't really have to talk a bunch about that except for, uh, you know,
I started going to Amsterdam in 1994.
There's some very famous people on IgE and stuff that started going in the early nineties
and mid nineties and stuff.
And since he was one of the primary places where we got things.
Yeah.
So, you know, um, since he was really Neville, yeah, it was all his stuff.
He was their head breeder still.
Um, and, uh, you know, and so, you know, Neville from, you know, 85 to 90 at the seed
bank and then from 91 to 95 at Sensi, um, you know, a massive amount of super skunk
and NL five Hayes, all the NL five Hayes, you know, of the Cuban black, the PIF, the
various, the Miami that all came from that era of, uh, you know, NL five Hayes seed.
Um, and he, uh, you know, they lost the G 13 cutting by Neville's own admission and
about 93.
It was one of the ones that got sick and died early.
Yeah.
Lost the NL five Hayes cutting, um, 94, 95.
One of the reasons why all the best Finos of NL five Hayes in, uh, uh, America were
found sort of between 89 and 95.
Yeah.
Um, and then once the, once the mom was lost, uh, people didn't really find the same quality.
I don't think I think all the named elites of NL five Hayes of which there's probably
eight or 12.
Yeah.
There's a lot.
They all come from that six year period.
Yeah.
I don't think there's any that come later than that.
I doubt it.
I haven't seen any good NL five Hayes cuttings in a long time.
They know in that era.
And so, um, you know, uh, so what, maybe we'll tie a bow on the sensey thing because we've,
we've kind of covered most of it.
Yeah.
The, uh, the last famous thing that never Neville did there was he was working on this
hybrid, um, which was NL five Hayes, uh, or people call it C five.
Now it's still alive.
He had this very famous mother cut that was sold in all the coffee shops.
It was one of the two of his two favorite C five cuttings.
Um, and he was trying to play around and make a poly hybrid and he was playing with crossing
it to skunk Hayes.
Yeah.
And he wasn't really happy with where it was yet, but Ben and Alan drunkards being,
uh, uh, businessmen, they had spent a bunch of money and they were sponsoring the 95 cannabis
cup and the cannabis cup was all about Jack for air.
And it was all about his life and his history and his contributions to cannabis.
And so Ben went to Neville and said, Hey, we want to release a Jack for rare.
Yep.
And if we're going to have something that we drop at the cannabis cup, wouldn't that
be a great marketing tool?
Yeah.
These are the number one sponsor of this cup.
We're spending a bunch of money.
It's all about Jack.
Yeah.
So what Freddie, um, as far as Neville was concerned, but he released NL five Hayes by
skunk Hayes and they called it Jack Herrera.
Yeah.
I doubt we need to spend very much time talking about Jack Herrera, uh, because it's super
fantastic.
It's Jack.
Yeah.
It led to Cindy 99, you know, it led to a whole bunch.
It was big yielding.
It was fast.
It was chunky.
It was a tremors dream.
Uh, it was, it smelled like, uh, terpene lane.
Uh, it's, uh, people have a, a love and hate.
A lot of people have dislike for that aroma.
The Jack aroma became infamous for, uh, you know, being something that repelled people
and stuff like Jack Terps and some of the same, yep.
Jack Terps, Jack people not genuinely know what genuinely speaking, know what, uh, or
generally speaking, know what Jack Terps are.
I think the first time that people ever heard about the word terpene lane long before that
terp was identified, he called it Jack Terps.
Yep.
Jack Terps.
Jack was a super high yielding, uh, you know, strain.
A lot of people grew it and that was people's first experience with extreme terpene lane.
Um, and it, it bred dominant.
Jack can talk about trying to get interesting phenos out of terpene lane, dominant strains
that don't give you terpene lane.
It's pretty tough.
It is very tough to breed with terpene lane, anything and try to infuse that into a lot
of Jack Terps, train wrecked terps.
Yep.
A lot of breeders have, have thrown their hat in the ring and tried to breed with a
lot because it's such a vigorous, powerful, high yielding fun plant.
Yeah.
It's real hard to find a not terpene lane dominant pheno that works.
I think, um, in, in modern times though, people are finding out that terpene lane is actually
really good in extracts.
It makes them very flavorful.
So there's been a little bit of a Renaissance for the terpene lane queens out there.
So maybe, um, maybe since you can't see anything, maybe we'll pause.
You want to answer some questions?
Yeah.
Go ahead and figure out what questions we need to answer and let's do it.
So the number one voted thing, and we talked about it a little was why was Sam's never
able to produce a Hayes to rival Neville's?
What was the outstanding difference?
That's the number one biggest question.
Yeah.
I think, uh, I think you, you, you've, uh, answered this before when I was talking with
you about it.
So go ahead.
Um, I actually think I mentioned it mostly a little earlier in the program, but, um,
we don't know why Sam, you know, Sam sold.
Depositronics.
If you bought Hayes from the flying Dutchman, that was Sam's Hayes.
He sold those of wholesale seed to any number of brokers in Holland, and then they sold
it through their seed banks.
And for whatever reason, uh, everybody in Holland wanted Neville's Hayes hybrids and
nobody found anything that rivaled what Neville was able to find.
Um, you know, and a lot of times, uh, Caleb, uh, CSI, myself, Matt, others, we always talk
about like the proof is in the plants.
Yeah.
You know, people lie.
Plants don't.
Uh, and whatever reason, maybe it was sheer luck.
Uh, maybe it was Neville's story is true.
And he did get earlier Hayes than, than Sam produced later.
Has been open, which is something that I found, um, hard to believe to be honest as a breeder
is he loves Hayes and, uh, he never, ever made any selections.
And he just, he just said, all I did was open pollinated to keep it as wide as possible
for 30 years.
Yeah.
He didn't do any selection work, any line work on it.
I, as a, as a breeder, never, ever playing around with your favorite phenos from your
favorite line.
Seems really unusual to me.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It is.
It's like me never fucking with blueberry, you know?
But that's what Sam says.
He, and it's also possible.
So we can talk about this for a second.
Sometimes when you open pollinate, that's great because you open it up wider, but that
means it might be a hell of a lot more effort to dig for stuff that you want.
And so Sam by repeatedly open pollinating it and never making any selections, um, he
might've open pollinated his way into jungle weed or hemp, or he might've lost a bunch
of the quality that led people to love Hayes in the first place.
Well you look at, um, like Tom Hill's Hayes, um, he would even say you need at least 10
packs, you know, a hundred seeds to find a single keeper.
So the, the, the repeatedly oping probably didn't help anything because obviously there's
so many phenotypes even in positronics Hayes that's been worked.
There's so many phenotypes that you need to pop a hundred to find a single one.
Yeah.
I mean, Sam has claimed that everyone got the exact same Hayes and no one got any different.
Yeah.
I find that a bit hard to believe because there's lots of people that bought flying
Dutchman Hayes.
There's lots of people that bought posse Hayes.
There's tons of people that bought Tom Hill Hayes.
Uh, Hayes has been sold for decades in a wide variety of places and all of the elites that
people hoard come from Neville stuff.
Yeah.
For whatever reason.
Yeah.
And you would think that we have a lot of quality Afghans out there and you'd be able
to cross some pure Hayes to some other good Afghans and get all the results to Neville.
But the G 13 Hayes and the NL five Hayes and so on and so forth, no one's been able to
replicate.
Yep.
Those ones are better.
And then I'll did also have the theory that he talked about much later on that he only
believed in breeding with Hayes males, that that was the key to finding the, the, the,
the whole URL Hayes was through Hayes males breeding and not using them as females.
You know, some of that might be that he'd lost the two best phenos of females in the
80s.
It could be some of it.
Yeah.
That's what he ended up doing.
I would also say too, that collecting pollen from some 18 or 20 week Hayes male and then
dusting it on other plants when appropriate is probably a lot easier of a breeder, uh,
then trying to wait for a 18 or 20 week female to be the appropriate time to pollinate it.
That's a good point.
So there's something to be said for the fact that you could collect a bunch of pollen and
then dump it on stuff later and be much harder to breed with the girls.
Yeah.
So, um, there's another question.
Mean, Jean recently mentioned that you and he have been doing some research and it looked
like who do Kush could most likely be a renamed NL.
I think we chatted about that already at length.
Yep.
I definitely believe that the Hindu Kush that was sold at sense he used to NL too.
Yeah.
Um, have I had any dealings with gypsy?
Nope.
I, no, I almost did.
And um, and it, it was just a really bad proposal for me to front a bunch of seeds.
He said that he would sit on the money for, I want to say six months to a year at which
point he would pay you out mostly in credit store credit.
So you would wait like almost a year to be able to use anything from any of that.
It was stupid.
It was no way in fucking hell.
Well, we'll have podcasts that deal with gypsies era of seed bags.
That's the mother time.
Maybe not necessarily a ton of him specifically, but he's from an era than we're discussing
today.
Sure, sure, sure.
Um, outside of the work that Neville brought to the world, who outside the original big
names contributed most new strains worth something to the culture early on.
That's a pretty good question.
See, I've mentioned some of before.
Um, I'll just associate some names with strains.
Uh, Sam skunk man brought a haze and skunk one to Europe or popularized it to people.
Uh, Jim Ortega, who's a very mysterious character brought Hawaiian Indica, garlic bud, uh,
maple leaf Indica and cush for to Neville.
Those are all used extensively in projects and so became very famous building blocks.
Uh, Mel Frank, uh, who's still quite well known.
Yeah.
He contributed the Afghani one and the Durbin poison two things.
Uh, I don't know if four haze for Vontas.
Uh, I don't think he directly contributed anything, but he did make the links.
He certainly connected Neville, um, uh, growers in Oregon and Washington that led to the hash
plant and G 13, which obviously entered into a pretty legendary status.
Um, Rob Clark who wrote marijuana bought me a hashish and some other really important
cannabis books.
He contributed a bunch of, um, you know, California orange, um, various Mexicans, various
sativa crosses.
Uh, he certainly brought early girl, early Pearl type of stuff.
That's all credited to him.
Um, I'm trying to think of, you know, that's sort of those, those names right there are
sort of the backbone and the NL guys, Seattle, Greg, certainly NL and the NL group from the
Pacific Northwest.
They contributed obviously all the NL lines.
And so, um, there's a number of people, we don't know who they are, but those guys are
sort of the foundational, um, people that brought a lot of stuff that ended up not only
getting brought over there, but ended up getting used a lot and into a lot and Dawn downs for
NL too specifically.
I believe that was his.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I believe it was a guy named Herbie that contributed the NL five.
Um, you know, I'm sure behind all these famous names are just like a lot of things.
There's probably a group of people, uh, or good friends and stuff that contributed various
things that their names have been lost to time.
Yeah.
Uh, you know, if I've not so dog and Matt could turn back time, what would you buy?
Uh, well, you know, uh, I would buy everything from the seed bank, everything, literally
everything you could.
I would buy hundreds of seeds of everything that I could, all the Durban, all the skunk
one, all the NL five Hayes, the app, the maple leaf mix.
Um, a lot of these things we talk about.
Um, but you know, Neville was one of the few people that got to run through hundreds or
thousands of even of these seeds and really see what was in there.
We talk about the famous Finos, but, um, you know, uh, we were really young when these
things were out there.
I was like six, seven.
I'm a little older than you, but even still, like I said, I was, I was only 18 in 1994
when I started going.
So I was even sort of catching the tail end of certain things.
Yeah.
Let's see there.
The next question was Afghan tea.
What's known about it, the strains that was used in geographically, what part of Afghanistan
that had come from via who, et cetera, et cetera.
We don't know where it came from.
I'm going to preface this.
I'm going to preface this.
All these people, all these people talking about roadkill skunk and all the other stuff.
I sincerely believe in, in just from the work with, uh, even the heirloom Afghani, the,
uh, later sours, the fucking super skunk and Jaisal, all that.
I sincerely believe that's the direction of where all these people chasing different directions.
I think it's fair to put it out there.
So everybody's on an even playing field.
That's probably the direction I'd look.
So, um, you know, uh, the maple leaf, we don't, we don't know anything about Jim Ortega.
We don't know where any of the strains that he got came from.
We zero documented anything about he's still alive.
Yeah.
So it's possible that he could, um, come out and tell some stuff.
Uh, but it is a mystery.
We know too.
We'd love to have them on.
We know, we know the story of his work basically as soon as he started trading the Neville.
Yeah.
That's when he pops up and you know, the, um, we can talk a little bit about the maple
leaf.
So the maple leaf Neville's talked about extensively.
Uh, when he first started growing it out, he started getting some sweet big bud types.
Um, and then he started growing more of it out and then he found some more like hash
plant types, some dark hashy thick types.
He called those types Ortega.
Uh, and then he started growing more out and then he eventually found what he considered
to skunk archetypes, which he called Afghan T and Afghan S.
And it's important again, because when most people hear skunk, they think skunk one, he
wasn't referring to skunk one types in this Afghan.
No, he was just kind of a little bit of the structure, a little bit of the nose, but of
the look, that type of thing.
And what he said about it is that, so obviously the, the maple leaf was kind of a, a hodge
podge of different phenos that popped out of Indica.
But what he found is if you took a big bud type and you bred with it, the maple leaf,
big bud type bread, big bud.
Like, yeah.
So if you took an Ortega type, the hash plant type and you bred with it, it's sort of ended
up being hash plant.
So they kind of bred true to type when they popped up.
If you bred with the Afghan T or Afghan S, it also breeded true.
So the T is pretty famous, uh, in the sense that it is the mom of super skunk.
Uh, he claims it's what put the funk in super skunk.
It's what crossing it back to its Afghan, you know, to an Afghan, the Afghan T brought
out the, the, the rank.
Yeah.
It took a, it took a kind of a sweet floral skunk and made it reek.
Yeah.
And so, uh, Afghan T is incredibly famous.
Um, but it's probably the least well known thing we're going to talk about tonight as
well as being incredibly famous.
It's the least well known, but it's the mother of one of the most famous strains out there
and possibly the reason why that strain was so hunted nowadays.
Yeah.
Super skunk is probably one of the most well known cannabis strains in the world.
Uh, and he says that that's what made it super.
Yeah.
Reading to Afghan T, um, Afghan T also crossed well with Hayes and there's a thing called
Afghan Hayes and, uh, that's supposed to be a, uh, uh, an half a maple leaf by Hays
C. Yeah.
It's hard to verify obviously if that's the case, but, uh, we have documentation from
Neville that it made super skunk and it, and it crossed great with Hays C. Yeah.
Yeah.
Um, so that's kind of that.
Um, there's some other stuff that, uh, just answered the Jim Ortega question on a different
one.
There's some Mendo perp stuff.
I don't know if it's pretty wide ranging.
We discussed garlic bud pretty good.
We discussed Hindu Kush, the Friesland and Sensi star and stuff like that.
We'll get to on a different episode.
Uh, we'll certainly talk about those a little bit more.
Um, you know, uh, where they like to have been coming from the Seattle Greggs group.
Uh, all that was there a Sensi NL five line in 89 there was not, uh, there ever was a,
uh, Sensi didn't have NL five because in 89 the seed bank was still owned by Neville.
Uh, and there was never a pure NL five line offered as far as I know.
And there also was never a 1988 Sensi seeds G13 hash plant.
No.
Uh, do you, can you see the Mel Vanik's garlic Fino of NL five?
I'll let Matt take that one if he wants to.
Okay.
So no on that.
Um, do we know if Neville's kids have knowledge on his father's work?
Yeah.
His son has some knowledge of it and I know his son and Neville's sister are currently
doing something.
Any info on what Kush for is?
Um, not really.
Uh, like I said, Jim Ortega is still alive.
He could maybe one day expound upon that if he likes.
Yeah.
A lot of rumor about it.
There's rumor that the clone might exist.
There's rumor that the clone is, uh, is not it.
And it's a, it's a pure Kush.
It's a cure, pure Kush variant.
Yeah.
A Bubba.
Yeah.
I mean, I think it's a great day on that level.
Um, I got, this guy said, I got to try a maple leaf from an old timer in Georgia, Georgia,
unbelievable flavor, almost like Dr. Pepper meets roadkill.
Uh, that sounds good.
Yeah.
That sounds delicious.
Um, when did the silver Pearl that Pip works come out?
Um, I think we talked earlier, the silver Pearl started being offered by Neville at
the seed bank around 88, 89.
Uh, it was offered 88, 89, 90.
It was one of the strains that got offered at Sensi later on as well.
So it popped up, um, is Steve Hagar just as guilty as Sam, the skunk man is AKA Dave Watson
from operation green merchant.
He's Steve Hagar.
He's the, uh, guy.
He's the, one of the, uh, the big head honchos.
Oh, high crimes.
Yeah.
That's a whole subject could be a whole podcast in itself, so to speak with all the rumors
and accusations.
And there's a lot of people that believe one way.
There's a lot of people that believe another way.
Um, that's a pretty in depth one.
As far as Sam goes, a lot of people do say that there is something to do with federal
informants and stuff.
I've looked up extensively.
I've never seen a damn thing come to light for any proof of any of that.
But I will say Neville told me specifically that he said, yes, everybody knew Sam and
everybody knew his DEA handler that walked around with them.
But now also during that time, Neville was telling me that him and Sam were fucking making
video beats back and forth at each other.
So I don't know how reliable that information is.
Yeah.
Uh, Sam and Neville had famous beef coming from Neville's bust.
Those Kung Fu dub over video means that they would send back and forth at each other in
2009, 2010 they were, I wish someone still had them.
They were fucking hilarious.
Um, so, uh, you know, there was, um, there was, uh, yeah.
Um, so there's a friend of ours that mentioned black domino.
We can touch on that real quick.
Sure.
Um, so black domino was something that, you know, in, in Neville's Neville's seed bank
era, the vast majority of the stuff that we were talking about in the eighties.
And, uh, and this is kind of, this is kind of the same with the super city to keep a
seed club is they were basically all F ones or very simple hybrids.
Yeah.
Uh, that's kind of what they were doing.
They were, they were crossing pure strains together.
They were releasing lines of pure strains they had gotten and they were taking these
pure strains like skunk and Northern lights or Hayes and skunk or, you know, and Northern
lights and Hayes and they were crossing them.
Yeah.
Uh, the, the poly hybrid term started to pop where you started getting more complex
breeding coming in.
So black domino was a cross of four indicates, uh, that Neville that they released
that Neville bred while he was at Sensi and the mother was consistent.
The mother was a, one of his favorite cuts.
It was a NL one by hash plant by NL one to say it correctly, actually, because the NL
one was the dad that was the mom and released three versions of it.
Um, depending on the year and one of the dads was, um, I believe Afghani one by NL
two, there was another dad that was, uh, Afghani one by Ortega, which is maple leaf.
And there was the third and final dad, which I believe was the vast majority of
the seeds, but it's kind of hard to say people wanted, uh, with all these pure
Indica's being crossed together, people wanted a larger yielding thing.
And so he crossed that hash plant by NL one to a, uh, garlic bud by NL two.
Um, so black domino, uh, had three versions.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Three forms.
Uh, mom was always the same.
Uh, dad buried as they played around with what to do.
Yeah.
It was just a really good name.
So they just fucking went with it.
Yeah. It's a great name.
I, I will say that, um, of all my trips to Europe, uh, I lost it sadly, but a black
Dominic, uh, Fino I found was one of the best things I ever got out of Europe.
Um, I had a great, great, great variety of it.
It tasted peppery.
It was extremely frosty yielded pretty nicely.
Uh, it was dark, uh, dark Afghan, not too leafy.
It really fast too.
It was pretty fast.
It was a great cut.
I wish I still had it.
It's one of my like super regrets.
Uh, we have some good friends, um, that there was a rare 12 week Fino.
Um, that was likely a recessive garlic bud type, uh, that people really liked.
They call it the lady Fino.
Uh, there was a lot of good black Domina black dump opt.
Um, it was probably one of the best later things that Neville did.
Yeah.
Uh, and, uh, so I don't know, we can, um, so we've probably been talking for a long
time. I don't know how long it's been going, but we'll, we'll hour and a half.
We'll tie it off with, um, we'll tie off Neville at least with sort of, um, the
last phase of what he did and why that's important to maybe, and then we'll call
it good.
Uh, we didn't get to everybody's questions.
It'll be hard to get to everybody's questions.
And one person said, can you describe the different growth structures, flower
times, yields, flavor effects, pros and cons of the different chem cuts, chem D
chem 91, chem CIS chem four.
And we'll do a chem dog episode.
Won't touch that one tonight.
Uh, I have a long history with chem.
Uh, I got blessed and I got to be one of the earlier people that got a hold of the
chem 91.
I've had the chem D since Oh six.
Uh, I've had the chem four for a long time.
I have a lot of experience with them.
We could do a long talk about that.
I promise you, you'll hear more about the chem.
The most political episode we will ever do.
Probably.
I don't know if that one.
I mean, there's, there's other ones I think that could cause some fire, but,
but we will, I promise you, we will, we will talk extensively about chem.
Uh, we'll, we'll be popping out these episodes pretty often.
So, uh, you'll hear about it in the future.
Um, so to tie off the Neville bit after answering questions is Neville was ticked
off about, uh, working under Ben and Alan drunkers.
He wasn't into it, uh, anymore.
And so he left in 95, 96.
Um, and he partnered with a younger cat named Shanti, uh, Shanti Baba.
We won't talk about him extensively.
Um, but he came to Europe in the early nineties and he popularized white widow,
a great white shark, white Rhino, uh, things of that nature.
Um, he was also from Australia.
He's a bit younger than Shanti.
He's sort of, um, and so when Neville left, then see, uh, Shanti Neville and this
gentleman named Arjun partnered at the greenhouse, uh, coffee shop, which should
be pretty familiar to everybody that has even a rudimentary knowledge of that.
Um,
they usually the first seeds everyone buys post 2005.
Yeah.
They, they, they had a very successful seed bank and they had a very
successful series of coffee shops in Holland.
Um, I went to them a bunch.
And so, um, basically at that point in Neville's career, he wasn't as interested
in breeding with a bunch of Afghans and stuff anymore, but he was really interested
in his continuing his Hayes work because that's, that's what interested him.
So, like I said earlier about the Jack Herrera, um, Neville didn't
consider that line finished.
He just released it under pressure from Ben and Alan drunkers to
coincide with seed with the, uh, the cannabis cup.
So after he left, since he, him and Shanti partnered together and they started
taking, they already knew what strains they had.
They had two NL five hazes.
One of them was caught.
One of them we call C five.
Uh, which has been spreading around a little bit in America now.
And there's some people that are selling seed hybrids of it and stuff.
It's finally popped out on our side of the, of the world.
And another one was called the one 22 or the mango.
Right.
And they were trying to work out a poly hybrid using skunk Hayes that
would reflect the qualities of both.
Yeah.
They were parallel breed.
And basically what they were doing is old school breeding.
That's a huge pain in the ass in which they were taking different skunk cases
and they were crossing it to these things and they were growing out the kids and
seeing if the dad threw the traits they wanted.
Yeah.
So, uh, most people don't do that anymore.
Uh, as Matt can attest, that's a super time consuming pain in the ass.
The market doesn't let you have a strain in six years later, release it.
You know what I mean?
Like you can't do it.
It doesn't, it doesn't work in today's world, but they, he had been working
on that for a number of years.
He kept working on it and eventually they found a skunk Hayes dad
that meet their criteria.
Neville preferred the wine that you see five is the mom.
And that line became known as super silver Hayes.
Uh, one, three cups in the late nineties.
Probably everybody knows about it.
It's very famous.
Yeah.
Dante preferred the skunk Hayes dad crossed to the one 22 or the mango.
My preference.
That one got named the mango Hayes.
That's also my preference.
I would actually, the, the one 22 is sadly not in America yet.
It is the nicest NL five Hayes I've smoked.
Yeah.
I'd love to smoke that.
My personal favorite out of the eight fives, the C fives, whatever.
Not that I'm an expert on all of them or anything, but I have in coffee shops
and getting to know people over there smoked most of it.
That one's amazing.
And I wish I had it.
Uh, mango Hayes is dang, but it lives and you can buy it from Shanti still.
Um, as the one 22 he it's, it's one 22 by Scott Hayes.
It's called mango Hayes.
And then he also released something that was the start of his Holy grail project.
His Holy grail project was trying to recapture the magic of Hayes
and an actual line and not F one.
Uh, Neville talked extensively about how he didn't like most of the polyhybrid
Hayes is nearly as much as the F ones.
Yeah.
So he was trying to figure out a way to do that.
And so what he did is he took a five, a five, two, which is on the cover.
I don't know if Matt wants to show it, but the eight five two is on the cover
of the seed bank, 89 and 90 catalog.
He took the eight five to this ugly beast.
He took the eight five to that one and he crossed it to Hayes C and which is the
famous dad that was used in almost all the releases.
So, um, that was the first time that the a dad and the C dad was crossed in the same
line, so it was 75% Hayes and 25% Northern lights and they initially crossed it just
to be a personal breeding project as their Hayes grail, but they found so much killer
stuff in it, they decided to release it.
And they called Neville's Hayes.
There is still a cut of that first find in Holland.
It is the strongest sativa I know of.
It's almost like a, uh, maybe the best way to put it is all those old school stories
of psychedelic trippy, hold onto your seat sativas that make you see tracers in the
corner of your vision and make you like something's talking to you.
Um, I kind of believe that was bullshit.
And then I smoked Neville's Hayes, uh, that Fino that they found that became famous
and it literally felt like the top of my head blew off.
I'm dead serious.
I shared a joint.
I did.
I, I, at that point I had, I had the chem 91, I had super skunk.
I had a whole bunch of pretty potent, nice stuff.
I felt like the stuff we had in America was mostly superior to what Europe had to
offer.
I went over there.
I met a gentleman who used to work with Neville, became friends.
I smoked a small joint with two friends of the Neville's Hayes and it blew my head
off.
I mean, it literally felt like, like air was rushing over the top of my skull.
Yeah.
I remember holding onto the railing as I walked down the steps of the dude's house.
I remember feeling anxious, stoned, tracers rushing.
Uh, definitely feelings that I'm not used to in cannabis.
And so at that point I realized that some of those old sativa stories had the,
that were true, that some people did get a psychedelic, energetic, almost
disassociative type of potent feeling.
I don't care how used you are to smoking, whatever Afghans you're used to.
Yeah.
I have a tolerance to Neville's Hayes and you smoke some, you'll probably get
knocked off your feet.
You know, there was a person in the U S and me and this guy don't necessarily
get along the best now, but, um, in all reality, the best Neville's Hayes I've
ever smoked has come from snow high.
He had a amazing selection of it and I think he used it in some breeding work,
but it was, uh, every spice you could imagine in a kitchen cabinet all in one.
And it was just, it was just so speedy.
It was crazy shit.
It was really good though.
It was unique.
I don't recommend this, but if you smoke too much Neville's Hayes, it feels
kind of like psychedelic cocaine.
Oh, let's just go do it.
It feels, I mean, but some people, some people feel like uncomfortable out of
your skin, a corner.
Um, you know, I get that from Afghanis, which is really weird.
A lot of them.
Oh, it, it really, it really, uh, it really has a strange feeling.
Um, I looked for that Fino and Neville's Hayes.
I bought quite a bit of seeds.
I never found it.
Um, luckily that Fino still exists.
It's still sold in coffee shops over there.
There's still people that hold it on that side of the pond.
Um, yeah.
Panic attacks.
Uh, it, it, it was, uh, certain people don't like it.
Yeah.
I fucking hate rollercoaster weed.
That shit's spicy.
No, but it is, it's, it's very tasty.
It's extremely potent.
It hits you extremely differently than most things.
And it certainly was factual and I'm like, okay, some of these people that are making
these stories about ties and Colombians and how it made them feel a long time ago,
um, are true.
Yeah.
Because that, that, that cut has it in spades.
Yeah.
Uh, it's 75% Hayes, 25% Northern lights.
It's the first thing that crosses both Hayes dads, a and C in the same line.
It's nuts.
Uh, I've been, it's one of my white rabbits.
Uh, I've been searching for it since the late nineties.
I know where it exists.
I haven't gotten it yet.
I hope they get it.
Hopefully after this, we'll have, I don't know, nine or 10 companies making crosses
with it from the U S yeah.
I mean, now that we've mentioned it, everybody's going to have it all of a
sudden.
So here's the right is that thing takes like 16 weeks.
Yeah.
So it's a super long runner, but it literally yields like three and a half pounds
of light.
Yeah, that's insane.
So even if, even if you, even if you were to take that 16 weeks and turn it into
eight weeks, basically like growing an eight week pound and a half a light
strain.
But it takes twice as long.
Yeah.
Um, you know, I, I saw, I saw a room in Holland.
Uh, I'll tell this story, uh, before it gets too late, but I walked into a room,
I saw a room in Holland that was all, uh, NL five Hayes and Neville's Hayes.
And it was one of the craziest things I've ever seen.
They were growing on a slanted floor with drains.
They were growing in rock wool croutons.
Yeah.
Rockwell's very popular in Europe.
Yeah.
Um, they were growing in one gallon pots.
There was thick, thick stems growing out of these one gallon pots.
They were on, they were on constant drip, slow and drip, right.
Draining out onto the floor.
And these stems went trimmed up about six, I'm six foot three.
Uh, they went up over my head.
The netting was about six and a half feet tall,
three feet from about six and a half feet to about nine or 10 feet.
There was a mass jungle of buds everywhere.
And then six hundreds all over the place.
Yeah.
It was one of the more unusual grow rooms I've ever seen.
Was it all like vertical bulbs hanging in there?
No, they were just way up high.
Oh, okay.
Got you.
But it's like, so you look at the ground and there's these tiny little one
gallons of rockwell croutons with these big, thick stems coming out of the
base that went up more than me.
And then right above my head, it just branched into crazy sativa arms.
Everywhere.
And that's it for the coffee shops.
Um, so.
That these last two episodes, we basically sort of walked you through
Neville's main breeding era, which was 85 to 97, 98.
Mm hmm.
That's so super silver.
Hayes won three cannabis cups in a row.
Uh, 97, 98, 99.
Most people have heard of Neville's Hayes, super silver Hayes, mango Hayes,
sort of the last major breeding that Neville, not that Neville stopped breeding,
but he did some much smaller projects and collabs more with other people.
And I was a bit more about that than I do.
But, um, you know, Neville probably had a 17 year run.
Yeah.
It's a good run in this industry of, of really great cannabis.
Yeah.
It went through the seed bank.
It went through Sensei.
It went through the greenhouse.
Uh, you know, he sold a bunch of, we were not going to talk about that, uh, this
episode, but he sold a bunch of his stuff and gave a bunch of his cuts to Shanti.
And then it continued at Mr.
Nice seeds in Switzerland.
Um, and so that's kind of Neville's as far as his breeding work, that's kind of
his arc for lack of a better way to put it.
Um, and, uh, you know, I don't know, that's probably close to a good stopping
point.
Yeah.
Um, so everyone, if you, if you want to get involved in these conversations, I
mean, there might be people in the chat room right now that are actually a part
of our Patreon that go into the discord and we discuss all this stuff.
A lot of these episodes that we are recording, we do a lot of those
discussions publicly with, uh, with each other.
Um, and in that chat room.
So if you, if you're a fucking straight up strain nerd, come join our Patreon.
You'll enjoy it.
Um, a lot of those other guys can testify to that.
Um, we also are going to start working on doing some old cannabis publications,
making those accessible for people, not like high time shit, but, uh, stuff
that's off the radar.
You know what I mean?
Um, that has a lot of old strain info, a lot of old pictures, a lot of old
growing info and all that's available through our breeder syndicate Patreon.
So join up, be sure to, uh, do that and make sure.
And, and, uh, we put up the crowdcast links in the bio on breeder syndicate
for each new one, be sure to sign up for each one.
It doesn't send notifications every time unless you sign up for it.
So that's, uh, that's the housekeeping details.
I think.
Um, I mean, the other thing we can say is we say this every time we have a discord
server that's breeder syndicate.
Um, you can ask Matt and I questions.
We're pretty responsive on there.
Uh, you know, we pop in fairly often.
We're going to also be doing some shorts soon.
Not every subject requires an hour and a half or something like that.
We're going to be doing a series of shorts coming up five, 10,
15 minutes about various topics.
Um, so sometimes your question might not get talked about, but it might lead to a
10 or 15 minute short where we talk about things.
Uh, we hopefully have some pretty cool old school breeders that we're going to be
bringing on, uh, in the, in the future.
We're going to be doing this on a regular basis, both the shorts and the long and
the long factor. It won't just be me and Matt.
Uh, some breeders are shy.
Some are busy.
Some are both.
Uh, we're going to do our best to add in some extra people and get, you know,
pretty historical.
So for all that you can reach us on a Patron, you can reach us on this, the
breeders is a damn tequila.
Patreon.
So, um, all that there's various ways you can get ahold of us.
We want to keep this kind of thing rolling.
I hope it was interesting to everybody.
I promise in the future, Matt, I'll talk more.
Sick of my ass.
They love this.
Yeah.
So, um, but you know, I thank everybody for listening.
I hope you find it.
I hope you thought it was cool.
I hope you've learned some things and, uh, everybody, thank you very much for
signing up and listening for everybody that stuck with us.
You have a great day.
Peace everybody.
