Welcome to Breeder's Syndicate.
Hey, what's going on?
So in like 0405, I was on Cannabis World.
And I got the green Bubba, the purple Bubba, both from Ken, Oregon Kid.
And then I had Shaw Bud, who is 707 Seed Bank.
His Bubba Kush cut. They were all called Bubba.
Ken called the purple Fino, which was supposedly an S1 that some club owner in the valley made.
It was really heavy yielding, made like club type nuggets with a rounded top.
The Katsu cut.
As far as I know, and I can't remember specifically, but I'm pretty sure that was the cut that he sold to Katsu.
Right. And that was the green Fino. And then Shaw Bud, aka 707 Seed Bank.
His Bubba cut was the pre-98.
And so basically what happened is I had all three cuts. I needed to label them in my room so that I could tell the difference.
Or, you know, so I could maintain mothers and know which was which.
And it just got the name pre-98 because Shaw had received the cutting in the winter of 97, 98.
So at the time, it's like 2003. I'm like, well, it had to have been before 1998 because someone popped the seeds and has a clone by now already.
Pre-98. Right. That's how it got the name. And that was like 2004.
And then it was like three or four years later that Swerve basically appropriated the name for selling seeds.
Yeah. So that's pretty much all there is to it.
It wasn't anything special. It wasn't there wasn't anything crazy about it.
What was the difference between Shaw's and like the Katsu?
They all pretty much smell the same. The purple was like a little bit more purple smelling, but still the Bubba with the incense and the like the smell in the air.
The same meaty smell. The Katsu, they would all turn purple depending on how you grew them.
Right. So they're all phenotypically variable based on environment.
It was the green pheno was the Katsu, which it just tended to be green more often.
But if you overferted it, it didn't budge it very big, whatever. It put out little tiny buds.
It turned purple at the end of flower with cold temperatures. No, not a major difference.
The pre 98 tended to be a little chunkier more often, but still the same characteristics as the other two cuts.
It was still like basically what I call like big stem, small bud.
Yeah. Right. Where you've given it too much cow mag or it doesn't have a big enough root system for the size of pot it's in.
Whatever. Right. If you vet it, just like most bubbles, if you get them out really big, they'll start actually producing pretty good.
That's fucking awesome. Dude, that was a lot of shit I didn't know about.
Well, like you said that people were asking about the face off story.
That would be fucking awesome to hear like straight from the mouth.
So the real OG Cushman, the source genetics, Chris.
Chris used to live up here in Seattle in 2000.
And I think he lived up here from like oh two to six.
I met him in like oh four. And he was growing the poison OG at the time, which was his bad seed, you know, from bags that he had purchased in SoCal.
The face off was I think he had 12 seeds of face off bag seeds.
The face off was never actually a clone that was being grown.
It was just a moniker given to a certain batch of OG that went through the Inland Empire back in like ninety nine or something like that.
I got six of the seeds. I think four or five of them popped.
If I remember right, the face off number four is the cutting that I have. Right.
I popped it from seed. So that's the only real face off, really.
I mean, I think there's like four or five more seeds out there. Chris gave some to call classic seeds, but I don't think he ever popped them.
And I'd be surprised if they even popped now being 20 years old.
No. And I think Chris might have a couple more seeds of it, but that's about it.
That's pretty awesome. So I thought the seeds, it was the number four pheno, the number one, two and three.
The number one was like a. It like the leaves turn purple, it had more of like a in between Bubba and face off kind of smell.
Yeah. The number two was like this really short sativa leaf looking thing, but it didn't stretch at all.
It was almost like a dwarf plant, but it had a really, really thin blades.
The number three produced like much larger, bigger colors was a little bit hermy, which was one of the main reasons I didn't keep it.
And it pretty much smelled like your typical OG made with like a little bit of a gummy bear funk.
Oh, wow. And then the number four and that the number three and the number one kind of had that similar like gummy bear in between OG and Bubba kind of smell.
The number three was more OG Dom. The number one was like it wasn't really Bubba Dom, I would say, but it was just kind of I would call it blander.
But, you know, it wasn't anything particularly special. And then the number four was the.
It's that it's that face off smell like that really long lasting, lingering after flavor and real cushy flavor.
And the main reason I kept it, too, was its potency. It's always potent.
Like the first time I was smoking it, I rolled up a joint and was driving to town to pick up some hydro gear.
This is like 2006 and I smoked it and started getting lightheaded in the car and I was like, all right, this thing's pretty potent probably.
And anybody that knows me knows I smoke a lot of herbs. So I typically don't even comment on potency at all because I'm smoking 20 or 50 different strains a day, you know, between all the different kinds of hashes and whatever else.
That's fascinating. I'm sure people appreciated hearing all that. Now, I have a question that I'm interested in that I don't know a lot about other than probably Jason King's cannibal, the purple indica.
Yeah, it's the one clone that I don't know that I don't want.
Yeah, it's super hard to work with. I mean, it's a really old strain from up here in the northwest.
Everybody that like if you're around in the late 80s, 90s and early 2000s smoking weed up here, you bought purple weed and it smelled like the purple indica.
It's like this really, really not. Well, it's not. I mean, it's pungent, but it's like if you could think of what the purple smells like, the color. This is everything that purple smells like.
And hold on a second. I'm going to take a toke in that.
And I got the cut in 2003. It was the very first cut that I got, basically, that it didn't come with a name either.
So I got it from my friend who had gotten a medical card at the time, which was pretty hard to get.
And he had gotten the cut from some organ growers.
I had no idea what it was. I was growing some 97 Dutch passion blueberry seeds at the time and also had some other blueberry seeds.
I can't remember what they were. I think they're from Canada. One of the Canadian blueberry crockers.
Like, yeah, one of those, you know, I can't think of the company names, but, you know, shit out of canvas.
Not like VCC Depot, but like Federation Seeds, all those guys.
I can't remember who it was that had like the blueberry, the blueberry NL5, all that kind of stuff.
I remember Peaks. Do you ever try Peaks Seeds?
I do remember Peaks, but I think this was before Peaks Seeds. I think this was, God, I can't remember the name, but it'll come to me in a second.
But basically, I was growing blueberry at the time, and when you cut up clones of the purple indica, it literally smells like berries, kind of.
It had a very berry-ish smell right from the beginning, which is kind of that purple smell, too.
And so I didn't know what it was, right? I just knew that it kind of looked like the blueberry shit, so I kind of was calling it blueberry for a second.
I hadn't even flowered it yet, so I didn't even know. I was just like, I don't know, blueberry something or other.
By the time I finished the cut, I knew that it was one of the purple strains from up here.
So we had the UW perp, Seattle perps, Tacoma perps, ultraviolet.
These were all basically the same phenos, or not the same phenos.
They were either variations of the same variety or hybrids of the same variety, which was basically the old purple from up here.
It was pretty widespread, and we knew that there was multiple different cuts because you could basically, when you bought pounds of it, you'd get some bags that all smelled like the purple indica or ultraviolet or whatever.
But if you got the perps from Tacoma, it'd have big 20-gram colas in it, right?
And whenever you saw ultraviolet nuggets, they didn't ever have big nuggets in them. It was always small little ounce bags of shit.
And when I grew out the blueberry or the unknown cut, basically, I grew it a few times, and I was like, there's no way that this is the Tacoma perp cutting.
I don't know if it's the ultraviolet. I don't know if it's the UW perp. I don't really know what cut it is because I don't have anything to reference it by in terms of other cuts, so I called it purple indica.
That was how it got its name, so it became PI.
And basically, there never really was a purple indica up here, as far as I know. It was just the perps.
And it's just a really, really tiny... it's not tiny. It's not like a dwarf or anything, but it's a very tight internode Afghani plant.
Pretty much anybody I know that's twice my age that's up here in Washington, they immediately can identify it as the old perp from up here.
Kindness Cannabis, he's one of my buddies from back in the day. He remembers it really well, too.
And that's what the PI was. It's lower potency, 15 to 18 percent, and pretty much whatever you cross it to, it reduces its potency.
It's a beautiful plant, though.
Yeah, and it's just hard to work with from the perspective of trying to bring a new variety up to modern day standards.
Sometimes you cross stuff in, like cookies, for example. You cross it into stuff, and it makes it really frosty and purple, which is what the market likes.
You cross the PI, and it makes it less frosty, dark purple, and not quite as potent.
But the funny thing is the potency is so subjective nowadays that back then, the purple indica, we always called it shut up weed.
Because anybody you'd load a bomb toke or whatever for, they'd immediately just sit there and zone out.
So even though it always tests significantly lower potency than a lot of stuff, it definitely would ring some people's bells.
Sure, sure. That makes sense, dude.
You know, I've noticed a lot of these lower potency strains are coming around more now since concentrates are much more in use and available.
It seems like they've got a renewed light in them.
Yeah, a little bit. But I mean, lower potency means lower yields as well.
So I think a lot of people are just trying to get as much bang for their buck, especially from an economic perspective.
Oh, sure. So what are you working on now? I think that's what a lot of people would like to know about you.
What are you working on now? You make fucking amazing shit, do-si-do. That's yours. It's hard to top do-si-do.
I mean, it's all personal preference. I'm actually going to pop all my old seeds, everything from 10 or 15 years ago this next round.
Right now I'm remaking all the stock of stuff that I've already gone through.
And then I'm going to go back to the drawing board. I'm tired of the shit I'm working on.
I can't wait to fucking see what you pull up from your collection. I can't even imagine.
Yeah, I mean, shit gets boring. And that's why people are like, oh, someone else made your shit before you could.
It's like, dude, I was working on trying to find something new, not remaking shit just because people are asking for it.
So it's all personal preference and what your motivation is.
And it's all about, I mean, anybody can make their shit for you if they don't test it and release it.
Yeah, of course. Exactly. If you're not going to work it at all, I mean, you can make it as fast as someone can sell it, basically.
So, you know, do-si-do took a while to make and remake because the OGKB is like a type 4 Hermes.
That thing Hermes every which way you can possibly get. So hybridizing into it, you've got to at least search through the population and look for lower instances of those traits.
And anybody that's not or doesn't even know about that obviously doesn't even probably grow their own fucking seeds.
So, yeah, everybody's going to be fucking bombing you about slurricane. You hear the story. It's up to you if you want to tell.
Oh, I mean, dude, so I can't make purple punch across a do-si-do too? I don't get it.
I agree. I agree. Especially if it's a happier line in the thing.
Right. Well, I mean, yeah, exactly. And it's like, well, you know, if people are mad about the name or whatever, the funniest shit is they're the ones complaining about patents on plants, but want trademark rights for naming shit.
It's, you know, you can't have your cake and eat it too. You got to be one or the other because that's how patents and trademarks work.
It's not. It's I mean, you know, I think hypocrisy is the the a lot of people's motive.
So whatever. It's fine. I mean, miseducation leads to it. And it's all right. It's what the world is nowadays.
Yeah, that's very true. What else you guys got for him? Any other questions that are fucking you got him sitting here? Don't ask fucking lame ass shit.
Yeah. Who wants to talk about purple punch anyway?
Let's talk about some fucking historical shit. Let's talk. You know what? Yeah. HP 13. The most common misinformation about it is that it's G13 Ashland.
I think most people think that fucking retards and have looked up anything. Can you tell us about your experience with HP 13? It's not something many people talk about.
So I got the cut, I think, from Caleb. I think he was the one that got it first. But I had seen it earlier.
For example, like in you're talking about Jason King's cannibal earlier. So the cannibal entry, that was my herb.
The Trinity crossed with you, Doug. That was herb that I had purchased that I showed to Jason King at the 2002 Seattle Hemp Fest.
The dog shit that's in there. That was us. Not the humble outdoor pictures, but the pictures of the indoor. That was my buddy cannabis reverend.
Yeah. Through another glassblower friend of ours that grew it. That was the dog shit entry that was in there.
The purple indica entry that was mine. And then Scott reach also reached out to Jason King and I think showed him pictures of it.
But that cut came from me. I gave Scott that back in the day. And so the first time I saw HP 13 was in 2004.
I went to stay with a friend of mine in Hana. Right. And he's he was another dude that was on Cannabis World.
And he he invited me to come out to this party. Right. Now, I won't tell too much about the party, even though they don't throw it anymore.
But it was basically a weed gathering party. Another another couple of buddies of mine that currently live on Maui.
And it was basically it was deep in the fucking jungle. It was off grid. So there's there's no I mean, they had power because it's like a multimillionaire's home.
That was this thing getting thrown at. So they had refrigerators and all the nines. It was actually an off grid home.
And, you know, they had like cobblerly blunts and fucking homemade kombucha and like homemade beer and all kinds of shit.
And Jason King also happened to be there. That was the first time I saw Mendo perps also.
That was like 2004, I believe. Yeah, it was 2004. And so HB 13, I'd heard about it.
Everybody had talked about it. I saw some jungle grown HB 13 that was grown deep in the jungle there.
And I thought it was swag. It was like but it was just poorly grown. I thought it had a really unique smell, but it had like no stickiness to the resin.
The smell I had to really mash it up because it was that outdoor shit.
And but you could tell it had like a unique smell to it. And then I eventually got the cut from CSI Humboldt.
And I think that was probably around 2007 or eight was the first time I got it from him.
And it's it was like it's a weird plant. You know, it's it's pretty leafy, very columnar growth, like goes straight up.
Didn't branch very much. Small yield and definitely hermit on the bottoms.
And that's where like the P or the fuck, what do they call it?
The sour P was a sour diesel HB 13 cross.
That was all the same group of cats that did this Maui party every year back then.
And I still have some friends from those parties that that live all over and, you know, they remember the stuff.
One of the one of the most impressive examples that I remembered was the Jasmine Jack, which came out of Eugene.
And that was it was real hazy smelling. But at the time, like in Seattle, hazy stuff was like where it was at.
That's why the dog shit Malawi Northern Lights haze that I made and all haze F2s, the pure Malawi gold that we had, the Super Bill, all that shit was was super.
That was like what was popular. Like I remember when I first got up here from Chris, nobody even gave a fuck.
People were like, dude, whatever. That's just some indica bullshit, whatever. Yeah, right.
They didn't even care. Couldn't get anything more for it. Nobody really even it was it was pointless.
Yeah, I just was growing it because I liked it. Right. It wasn't like an 0 3 0 4 0 5.
Oh, gee, wasn't really that popular or known outside of Los Angeles.
That's so I can't ever get anybody knowledgeable to come in on HB 13, and it seems like everybody who grows it or run it has different opinions on whether it's keeping, whether it's growing.
But that's pretty fascinating. I appreciate that.
Yeah, the people that I know it came from, the people that Jason King saw it from originally, the people that put it in the can of Bible, those dudes were from New York.
It's from New York. Right. It is from New York. And for sure, that's my understanding.
Like I the farthest back that I have any experience with it and the people that it came from, they had a New York connection.
And that's where that cut came from. Wow. OK, cool. Yeah. I've always wondered.
You always see it in New York and Maui, New York. Yeah, that's why they had the sourdough out there, too.
Right. At the same time, that was all the same group of people.
And, you know, the scene was really small 15, 20 years ago, especially genetic scene back then, because most people all they gave a shit about was just finding one good cut and running it till the wheels fall off.
That was like the deal. No one. It didn't really matter what the strain name was in those days because everything sold for great money.
Oh, sure. Sure. I've seen him fucking growing in Maui, growing fucking plants and trees and shit. Fucking gnarly out there.
Yeah. That was how that HB 13 that I first saw was grown. And it was garbage.
Honestly, it was pretty much garbage. I mean, I would be nice about it, but it did.
Ryan's trying shit in the jungle is impossible. Yeah. It looked like I remember I would ship out a jar of weed.
Like I shipped out a jar of Albert Walker for that party in 2004.
Literally, as soon as I opened that jar, my buddy's house, the weed got wet.
Yeah. You know, it was like cured perfectly and was like spongy with the with the crack.
As soon as you open the jars, it turns into like jungle weed. Yeah.
Just that humidity. Yeah. The humid. It's like 98 percent humidity or 100 percent humidity.
It's like raining, basically. So as soon as you open the jar, it just takes it. It takes it all on.
Are you doing any more dog shit work? Someone wants to know.
I'm not doing any more DS work. It's just not popular enough. It's longer flowering.
I'll play with it every once in a while. It's actually hard to hybridize.
I saw Rich in here earlier also talking about his dog walker and the Scooby Snacks shit that people like to make a big deal out of.
Yeah. And like every rich and I have mutual friends. I didn't do it as any intentional thing.
I was living in L.A. at the time. Had no idea that there was. I don't even know.
This was 2012. So I don't even know if Rich had made it or sold or given it to people or whatever.
Yeah. But literally, I just made cookies crossed with fucking cookies, crossed face off.
I called it Scooby Snacks and honestly, it didn't even really sell very well.
And I didn't expect I had no idea until I moved back up to Seattle and then started working with my buddy in Oregon.
Did I even know that there was a cut out there called Snooby Snacks?
So, I mean, is that what the dog walker pets called Scooby Snacks?
No dog. Scooby Snacks is dog walker and forum cookies is my right.
I didn't know that either. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, you know, Rich is still in here.
I'm sure he can he can tell everybody. But yeah, the dog walker, which is our Walker O.G.
I'm not I'm not sure who made that side of it. And then that hybridized with chem 91 or chem four.
I can't remember if Rich found out which one it is. I think he ended up saying chem four is what he was.
Yeah. So I think it was supposed to be chem 91 ended up being chem four.
I personally prefer the flavor of chem four. So, yeah, it makes even more sense why I like smoking dog walker.
Here's my favorite question. Are you going to breed any more land races?
I mean, why are you going to like a land race? Yeah. I mean, why would I even try?
I'm going to move to Antarctica and make the first Antarctic land race.
There you go. Hey, I got to ask the fun ones. Yeah.
What else you guys got? You tired yet? Good. Well, I mean, if this means I have to stop trying to answer this shit with my fingers,
that would be helpful. I mean, I've tried for you know, this, Matt, I've tried for so many years to try to just keep the information correct.
And it's just every year there's another guy that heard something about the ocean grown story from fucking Paradise Seeds,
Mod John, the biggest fucking scammer ever, which can Oregon kid come on here and tell everybody about.
That's the same fucking dude, dude. That's Kyle Lewis. Yeah. That's him. Right. Exactly. It's all him.
Every story he ever told was a lie. I got so many stories about that guy because he lived in Portland and I fucking knew him personally.
You know him. Yeah, I knew him in real life. Yeah. Wendy, I want to say, man, that dude would like I don't even know if he had a wife, really.
You know, it was a chick on meth that used to fucking smoke meth. And that's what I know, dude.
He used to have like like stripper hooker whores and shit around all the time.
Like he had a whole that dude was a problem. You know, I made him cry.
But he was he was how I ended up meeting Ken, though. Right. I believe that. Yeah. Because he was selling Ken seeds at the time. Right.
Yeah, I believe that's true. West Coast Dog. Is that correct? Say it again? West Coast Dog. Is that a John creation?
No, that came from Ken also. Oh, West Coast Dog is a Ken one. Yeah. West Coast Dog.
So so John used to basically find medical patients and get them to make seeds for that seeds for him.
He'd take the seeds and not pay him anything. Oh, shit. Yeah. So he had a couple of buddies that were down here in.
I do know Ken, who are not Ken Westfall. That's not who we're talking about. But Ken, Ken Doe, who's the guy that's hosting there?
He's also in our circle of friends. But not the. Huh? Is your friend Kendo?
Yeah, I know Kendo. Yeah, he's old school, too. But this this is someone was asking if it's Kendo that I'm talking about.
This is totally different shit. Yeah. And so John used to get these guys. One of the dudes name was Diamond.
Who's the guy that's responsible for the U-Dub cut? Yeah, that's on the lawn line. It's not U-Dub.
First, first of all, it's it was a nice hash plant, but it had no smell of any U-Dub I ever bought buying pounds out of U-Dub.
There's many different strings that came out U-Dub, but none of them I ever saw with that one.
So there's Diamond and his buddy Jim. Right. And Ken, Ken remembers all these guys, too.
And so Ken gave those do the cuts. And I got those cuts from them. And that was like the sour OG, the ogres, the cutting that ended up being called the smelly at all that shit.
I want to know personally about who named Banana OG. It was a cut of OG, right? Or Ogres?
Ken named all that. Ken named and selected all that. He he had gotten Sagra Martha's 6040 seeds as freebies with shit that he had ordered from Gypsy Nirvana.
Gotcha. And he liked that and crossed it into the OG. And that's Banana OG. It was a freebie packs from Gypsy. It was just bulk, like basically skunk number one hybrids, because that's what I mean.
I think Sam and Scott, man, was selling like millions of skunk one hybrids back in those days to all the seed distributor guys.
And they would all just like package it up and sell it, give it away as freebies or whatever it was, you know. And yeah, it was just that, you know, is that cross with ogres and then Ken grew it.
So it was probably one of Sam's skunk one hybrids, the 6040.
Based on the smell and like the way the plant grows, the fact that it washes well, all that stuff leads me to believe that it's probably probably some skunk number one cross, just like pretty much everything else that I've grown from that era from Amsterdam.
Our buddy Nick Vitus is asking about NorCal catfish. That's a Shaw Bud one, right?
Yeah, that's Shaw Buds, a high school weed from the early 90s. And then the SoCal catfish is a cut that I got from this dude that used to go by the name Billy. He used to run a lot of weight up here.
There's a lot of local people up in Seattle that will know who I'm talking about if they were around back then. And he brought me those. I did a bunch of work for him.
And I actually heard that he was at the Glass show like last year down in Vegas. It was like a random connection. I might be actually have his phone number.
I meant to hit him up but you know, I haven't talked to the guy in a long time and he had some issues. Let's just put it that way with the law.
I was always really paranoid.
But him and I, Billy and I have some funny stories just like of shit that happened. I borrowed money from him to get started in my first spot.
When I bought my first, I had those Omega gardens that spin around the bulb and shit.
Yeah, so I had borrowed some money from him to get going on that. And I ended up with like three of those things.
That's awesome. Fucking Omega gardens.
Yeah, but so anyways, I did like some work for them and move some stuff and did whatever.
And they brought me a couple big mother plants straight from San Diego of that cut.
And I remember just like cutting up like there was two. I never, still this day probably haven't seen plants this healthy.
They were just like six inch rock wall blocks with mats of roots that were like three feet long.
Right? Yeah, like they were doing that where you cover with Panda film over top of the tray.
And man, it's just like perfect white roots. These things have just been in the backseat.
I probably took like 350 cuts off of those two plants.
You know, they were like covered in clones.
And anybody that's grown that San Diego cactus cut will know how branchy that thing is.
I mean, it puts off cuts like crazy.
So anyways, that's how I got that cut.
That's a legendary strain in San Diego along with the Onspread P91 and the Bull Rider.
Do you ever come across the original Bull Rider?
I never saw any of those other ones, man. I only ever saw the Cactus, right?
And it was like, oh, four that I got the Cactus from Philly.
And Cannabis Reverend, the guy, my dog shit buddy and our other buddy.
I don't know if he wants to be called.
So I'll ask him in the future if he wants everybody to know who brought our crew the dog shit.
But there's also the part of this back that I know that the dog shit goes is my buddy down in Portland that owns Five Zero Trees.
Right. They got it in 94.
And supposedly it came from like Michigan, I think.
And it was originally called Electric Boogaloo or something like that.
That's a story that my buddy that owns Five Zero Trees, those group of stores down in Portland.
They were the first ones that got that cut that I know of.
And that's where they say it came from.
And your thoughts on Trinity?
I only ever bought the herb from Eugene.
I didn't ever see like the I'd never see the cut or know anybody that had the cut correctly.
All I remember about it was really was that it had like a I saw a couple of different phenos of it.
So who knows what the fuck I actually saw.
Right. But all of them were like very rubber smelling.
They weren't like skunk.
They were like rubber like that rubber cushy Afghani smell.
I don't remember them tasting it.
It was really well grown, but I don't remember it tasting better than than it smelled.
I remember being the opposite.
It's smelling really good and not really having a ton of flavor.
The Trinity cut that I've been smoking that came through like the Natsu dog and those guys have in Caleb.
That one kind of tasted to me like the Elvis cut, which is real interesting.
I'm not sure if it is the old Trinity or not, but they're saying it is.
Yeah, I haven't I haven't seen it, so I really don't know.
The like I said, the Trinity that I remember, all of them smelled like straight rubber Afghani funk.
And it was pretty strong smelling, but there was no sweetness at all to it.
There was no fruitiness. There was no like off smell.
It was just basically burnt rubber.
I think if people confuse that anything that's not sweet, but that's funky with skunk.
I've been seeing that a lot lately.
Anything that's not fruity, they call skunk.
But I think it also has to do with like I know when I've stopped smoking for periods of months and stuff.
Everything smells way skunkier.
Yeah, like OG smells like skunk.
Ken's sour cush.
That thing was fucking super skunky.
I mean, like if you think GMO has that bad breath, whatever smell.
Ask about the original sour cush cut that Organ Kid Ken put out there.
That thing was fucking ridiculous.
I mean, comparatively, it shits on GMO in terms of that raw halitosis OG funk.
Yeah, that's which is totally different than the burnt rubber.
I don't know. I mean, it's just experience.
I think you have to have seen it to know the difference.
Absolutely. Yeah, I think that's everything.
Let's see what we got.
Blue Dot.
707 Seedbake. He knows more about that than anybody.
I mean, that was like a club cut that used to go through the third floor at Oakland.
That's all I remember about it.
I've seen some Blue Dot over the years, but whether or not it was like
the Blue Dot that everybody talks about, I have no clue.
The one that I saw wasn't that impressive.
So it leads me to believe that either people are smoking BAM or weed or I saw the wrong shit.
You never know.
Yeah, well, I mean, I've been fooled before.
I think all of us have at some point.
Yeah, or someone said something's really awesome and then you see it.
You're just kind of like, oh, never mind.
Yeah.
Let's see what else you guys got.
The Maui Pog.
You familiar with it?
I don't know anything about the Pog.
It's a HP 13.
I want to say the Maui Dog or whatever it is.
That's all I know about it.
Yeah, I mean, I've heard like a bunch of different stuff, but I've never really seen enough about it.
The Oregon Pineapple, someone said.
I don't remember a whole lot.
I just remember buying that herb.
I remember seeing the pineapple DS.
I remember it reminding me of the Hawaiian Indica shit that was going around.
Yeah, and that's what it rumored to be.
And I think that, you know, that Hawaiian Indica line was like pretty popular there for a few years.
One more quick one.
Your collab with Kai with with with Casas.
Yeah, that was Chris's brother's cut.
He lived in Portland.
Chris gave me that cut when he think when he moved back or actually, I think I got it from his buddy up here a couple years after he moved back to L.A.
Something like that.
And I seated up with the face off.
I never sold seeds of it.
Yeah, but I made seeds with it.
I have Albert Walker face or Albert Walker Manic crossed with that tie also.
And I gave Chris a handful of those seeds and he's going to work it just partly in homage to his brother.
That tie was really interesting.
It definitely it was like it was like bubble gum and burnt onion or not burnt onion, but like a like a really strong cutting onion smell and bubble gum and like a little bit of the super silver haze.
Yeah, hazy back end, but not not really like when you smell it, you don't think haze.
It's mostly that like a tropical cut onion type of smell.
It's pretty unique.
Oh, it's super unique.
And it was it was stunk.
And I mean, it did like the classic little bananas all up the calyxes up the top.
On the top, Cola's when it finished up just like the milling to.
Yep.
What? Here's a good one.
And we can end with this.
This thing's almost over.
What what project you most proud of?
Like looking back on what you've done to this point, what are you most proud of?
Oh, man, I just one cog in the wheel.
Like I'm not I just was preserving genetics because I thought it was important.
And at the same time, a lot of other people were getting rid of everything because it was starting to become like a marketing game.
Right. It used to be able to grow dog shit and it still sell.
In fact, it was the most in demand product.
Ten years later, it was the opposite.
Right. Nobody wanted the long farms.
He was people didn't like smoking them anymore.
It had become more of a marketing type of cannabis market than it was before.
Right. Yeah.
And so for me, I'm just happy that I was in the right place at the right time, was able to get a lot of these really good cuts and kind of put them all in one place and make sure that they stuck around.
I mean, that's it.
Well, hey, dude, we actually did this.
Thank you so much for coming on and like educating everyone.
And next time, hopefully this next time we can talk about like Albert Walker.
I know a lot of people want that, but I appreciate it.
Thank you so much. And thanks for everyone for asking awesome questions.
Cool. Later.
Thanks.
