Welcome to Breeder Syndicate 2.0 where we explore the history of a clandestine scene.
Researching everything from cannabis strain history, old smuggling tales from the first person perspective,
to breeding science and news on current subculture.
I'm your host Matthew, and I'll occasionally be joined by my homie NotSoDog, breeder and grower from Mendocino,
to speak on these subjects and sometimes interview other participants.
Our goal is to document this history before it's written by corporations and others who just weren't there.
Let's start righting some wrongs. Welcome to the underground.
Every now and again you'll like reach in and it'll be like this.
You know, oh yeah.
Makes for some awkward moments.
Yeah, what really hurts me is that like if I put on my glasses it's like a really awkward distance.
So I can't see that well without them, but then if I put them on I have to be like way far back and that's awkward too.
Well I'm sorry, you know, I'm like all sweaty and don't have my phones and stuff like that.
But you know, I'm a cultivator and not like a show personality.
Exactly, exactly.
I just left the garden seconds ago.
Compared to most shows, Matt and I are pretty bare bones.
We try to make the content speak for itself rather than like all the fancy accoutrements that come with it.
Gabby and I used to go to so many concerts together and we would often have like joints of like dog and super dog and different hybrids with us.
And it got to the point where like often people would like that were standing next to us, it would smell so good.
They would want to share it with us.
And him and I used to have these like running debates if we should like share or not.
Because we had literally been at events where like we shared a few times and like people's needs would buckle.
Because they got way too high and then like security would have to come and like help them.
And so yeah, we got to the point where because...
I can tell some stories like that.
Back in the day, you know, like the dog was like, I mean, it still is.
But like it was really a lot stronger than what most people had access to.
Yeah.
So we smoked it every day.
So we had a certain tolerance to it.
But there was a lot of people that like two, three hits and like they'd be in a space they were a bit uncomfortable in.
Oh, yeah.
I'll start by telling a story.
I'll start by telling a story when the chem dog ruins somebody's day.
Let's hear it.
So I went to a Blues Traveler concert at the Greek Theater.
It was, I believe it was 1991.
Can't be sure, but it was in the early 90s.
And I used to see Blues Traveler when they were just a bar band in New York City.
You know, playing like small clubs of like 50 people.
And, you know, then they got big and they opened for Jerry and, you know, we're playing the Greek Theater.
And so I went to the Greek Theater early to wait online to get in, to get a good spot.
Because, you know, if you're from out here, you know, the Greek Theater is generally general admission, which is awesome.
Yeah.
And so I'm, you know, waiting online and I'm talking to people and I meet somebody and, you know, I'm smoking online, which I always do.
And this guy, you know, he asks, man, can I try that? It's amazing.
So he takes a hit, takes another hit.
And he went from being this like really excited, like jovial character to like just completely like, and not saying anything.
And like he got so high that when the show let in, like he sat down before the line went in.
And when the show let in, he didn't go in.
Oh, no.
I'm like, bro, let's go. They're letting us in.
And he just sat there and I'm like, fuck.
I'm like, well, I'm going.
Like he waited online for hours to get a good spot at the show.
And then I don't know if he ever made it in because he got so high from two hits of the Chem Dog.
Then I had this other experience.
This one was that Phil did a show at the, not the Maritime Hall.
It was called the Maritime Hall. It was called the Philharmonia.
It was a sing along.
And I brought my camera.
And I was taking pictures at this show.
And of course, I'm smoking the dog.
And this lady behind me asks if she can hit my joint.
So I'm like, sure. Let her hit the joint.
And I warned her at this point because I had already had this experience with a few people.
She's like, oh, no, I smoke every day.
You know, I'm good.
So she takes a couple of hits off the joint.
And I'm not paying attention.
She was behind me. Right.
And I've been taking pictures and I got this like film camera around my neck, you know, with a strap.
Next thing I know, she collapses.
It's like falling on top of me.
And I'm like, what's going on?
So I spin around.
And when I spin around, my camera spins around and clocks her in the head.
It was like it was like a one, two punch.
She was going down from the Chem Dog.
And then my camera clocked her in the head.
And she had to get taken to like Rock Med over there.
And they're like, what is she on?
What happened?
And I was like, it's just weed.
It's really good weed.
And like, you know.
So, yeah, I've had a number of times when I shared the Chem Dog with people and it didn't feel good.
After a while, I started just telling people, like Francis said, like, you know, I'd be like, no, sorry.
You know, and.
That just makes them want it more.
People thought we were being dicks.
And like Gabby and I would be having these conversations like, are we going to ruin this person's experience by being cool?
You know, it was like an on.
It happened.
People thought I was stingy.
People thought I was stingy.
Because Nopson Chugs has been telling everyone I'm stingy.
It's like 5,000 people, you know, on Discord that think that Gabby is fucking just stingy.
I'm like, I'm like, holding on to it all, Gabby.
Right?
I mean, I.
That's funny.
I will say, I don't know.
I don't know if you heard this part, Gabby.
But I have mentioned a few times how, like, when we were doing all of those.
When we were making those, like, Super Dog hybrids and we were playing around and we were doing all those out crosses and stuff.
Gabby was honestly, like, one of the people, like, earliest people amongst my entire friend crew that sort of saw, like, the future American seed sales coming.
And he used to talk to me and be like, dude, we could take this eight lighter, you know, because we did big seed runs, you know.
We take this eight lighter.
And he's like, we could make so many seeds with this eight lighter.
It would just blow anything you could do with flour out of the window.
Yeah.
Like, we could sell so many seeds.
And it was, like, so early.
This was, I don't know when.
It was probably early 2000s or something.
It was so early.
It was long before, you know, seed companies in America and IG made it, like, feasible.
I honestly, like, we'd get into arguments and I was like, I don't see it, dude.
I don't see how we'd be able to do it.
I don't see how we'd be able to have customers.
All these people.
To take money.
All these people that wanted to do seed companies.
But you were right.
You saw what was coming.
And I was like, no, it's not going to work.
And then, like, ten years later, I was like, man, we were just, like, too early.
Business models that are built on volume.
And there's business models that are built on scarcity.
You know?
And the margins are very different.
You know?
If you have huge volume, you can have smaller margins.
You know?
If you've got big margins, you don't need huge volume.
I mean, it's crazy.
Because it's kind of the same thing with clones right now.
Except it's more like people taking advantage.
Like selling shit for, like, $1,500 a piece.
That's just, like, a garbage cross.
You know?
Just because they made a good name for themselves.
And, like, at the Emerald Cup, people will be waiting online for, like, the
entire Emerald Cup to pay $1,500 for clones that ended up having virus.
You know?
Like, it was just, you know.
I mean, it's part of it is successful branding.
And then not being honorable about it.
Yes.
Very much so.
I mean, it sucks because I think it's a flawed business plan.
Because as soon as you build up your business to the point where, like, you
have all these people that respect you.
And you're like, I'm going to do this.
I'm going to do that.
And you're like, I'm going to do that.
And you're like, I'm going to do that.
And you're like, I'm going to do that.
And, like, you have all these people that respect you and think that you're
awesome.
And then all of a sudden you fuck everybody.
And the word gets out.
And, like, it's so much worse now.
I heard a lot of stories about deals that went bad with them.
I mean, I don't know if you want to cut this out because I ain't trying to
talk shit about people.
But, you know, he had contracts with people that he had to give them, like,
they had to give a certain dollar amount for their crop.
And their crop got completely ruined.
Because it was all virus.
And he still wanted his money.
Meanwhile, like, he destroyed these people's livelihood by giving them, like,
infected genetics.
And I'm not saying he did it on purpose.
But, like, you give people infected genetics and then you sue them for not
giving you the 200 bucks.
And, like, you know, and meanwhile these people couldn't get 300 bucks or 400
bucks for, like, quality herb that was, you know.
It was just like, I mean, the thing is, is like Francis and I said, the seeds
are so cheap, right?
That if you have a problem, like, this is an opportunity to show people that
you're solid or that you're a scammer.
Exactly.
That could have happened to anyone.
That, you know, the seeds were no good, whatever.
They just need to be like, look, we stand behind, you know, our name and our
product and everything else.
And anyone that bought that is going to get, you know, not just their seeds
replaced, they're going to get extra stuff.
Yeah, for wasting their time.
Make the customer feel good because in the end the seeds don't cost you shit.
Yep.
You know, and, like, you took so much into making your reputation.
How do you just screw so many people over, let the whole world know that
you're terrible and fuck over your entire business?
I don't understand how people do that.
I run into this all the time, Gabby, when we chat where it's like a lot of
times I will talk in generalities about like certain things that go on in the
community because even just telling stories that are true, people get mad.
But if you mention, like when we, if I mentioned somebody's name
specifically as an example, their friends will like cut out that 15 second
clip and send it to them.
And then I'll have like furious people in my DMs all mad that I'm like trying
to like fuck with their wallet or destroy their way of life or like
disparage them in some fashion, you know?
Okay, so one thing that I want to say that's not really a story.
I don't know if it was not so dog or someone else in the discord that said
that what people appreciate me is that I didn't flex.
Yeah.
And I don't know if it was me.
And, you know, I thought about it and I said to myself, I'm not opposed to
flexing.
Yeah.
For shit that actually I can flex about.
I don't feel, I don't feel like I'm that responsible for it.
And there's other things that I'm so much more proud of, like my Hydra store,
the garden spell, you know, I, I had the first real growth shops in Mendocino
County.
They were spare time supply, but they sold lights in the back of an ocean
container to people that knew about them.
Yeah.
You know, and I opened up, I opened up a growth store in Willards at the time
highway 101 stopped being a highway and just was like a one lane in each
direction road through the town of Willards.
So anyone traveling north would drive straight through town.
Yeah.
And I got this little store on Main Street.
What I was saying was that when I put my store up, it was right on highway
101 and I literally lit up the highway with the orange glow of high pressure.
So it was the talk of the town.
Like nobody could believe that I was being so ballsy to like put these lights
up in the street.
Yeah.
And, um, you know, one by one, you know,
the locals from the hills came down and they heard that they could trust me
and that I would deliver soil to them.
Holy shit.
I delivered soil in the most dangerous and not like dangerous,
like gun dangerous.
Like the roads was just psychotic.
I bet.
If I would have known I never would have done it.
You know, you get like committed to this drive and now you can't turn around.
Yeah.
Driving this like U-Haul style box truck loaded with soil through like 10
creeks and shit.
And you're like, Oh my God.
But, um, I taught a lot of people how to grow weed.
And I taught a lot of people how to grow better weed than they were already
growing.
And I brought new products to our market.
And that's the stuff that I'm really proud of.
And it's not that I, um,
didn't always love cannabis and always grow cannabis,
but for a long part of my life.
Okay. So let me take a step back.
Here's how the story went.
When I was growing before working and owning hydro stores,
I was paranoid and I wasn't making friends and I wasn't talking to people
about growing weed,
which is what I realized I really liked to do is talk to people about growing
weed, which is one of the reasons why me and not so dog got along so good.
Like, cause that's what, what he wanted to do too.
And, um, what happened was one day,
the hydro store that I was shopping at, it's called hydro Depot.
The guy asked me if I wanted a job.
And at first I was like, no, I don't want a job. You know, I,
I'm doing pretty good doing what I'm doing.
And then I realized that if I got this job and I worked it for a few months,
I can make a legitimate income and then like maybe work towards buying a
house instead of like, you know, renting my entire life.
So I started working at the hydro Depot.
And that's when I realized that as much as I have a passion for growing,
I have a passion for talking to people about weed and teaching people what I
know about weed.
And I really felt like my calling was to do that because not only was I
making a good living, I was loving every minute of it.
You know, when, when clients would come in,
I would love talking to them, you know, like, you know,
I let other people handle the inventory and the, you know,
all the, you know, boring stuff, running a business.
And I would just talk to people about growing weed.
And I was always really honest with them.
And that's why people came back, you know,
because they knew I wasn't just trying to make money.
You know, because they knew I wasn't just trying to sell them some shit.
Cause oftentimes people would come in and be like, should I buy this?
And I'd be like, absolutely not. Don't do it.
You know, perfect example was led lights before they were ready.
You know, when I opened up my store, it was 2002.
There was already people trying to sell led lights.
Remember the UFOs Francis?
Oh yeah.
You know, I mean, there were garbage.
You couldn't successfully grow basil with those plants,
let alone a fruiting crop.
And, and they sold for a lot of money.
And I used to tell people if this technology worked,
I would make so much money because everybody would want to change.
Everybody with high pressure sodium would immediately want to buy these,
these LEDs. I would kill it.
Yeah.
But I couldn't with good conscious.
So even though people coming in, like wanting the lights,
and I'd have to be like, no, it's a bad idea.
You know?
So I'm proud.
And this is a very minor flex that I feel throughout the years.
I made a good reputation for myself.
With growers.
Because I was honest and I was a place where they could come for
information and they felt safe.
Yeah.
You know, people felt safe at my store.
And, you know, so when we're talking about flexing, it's like,
I think I can flex about that a little bit.
I'm proud of the proud of that.
I hope that that's, you know, it's going to be a part of my legacy.
You know, when I'm gone.
For sure.
The chem dog thing is just like, you know,
Well, I don't think I'm blushing and, you know, like kind of like,
It makes me smile that I'm getting this attention about it, but like Greg,
he's the one that popped the seeds.
People that he distributed to, like, what do they get the credit for?
Like, where do you draw the line of giving people props?
Sure.
Is it you, Francis?
Is it Jason and Ben or, or like people, 10,
10 rows past them that got it that maybe did better shit with it than all
of us.
Well, I mean, I look at it a little different, you know,
I'll talk about the chem dog for a second and then I'll move on to the store
because I actually think there's some parts about the store that people would
not really realize today, but I'll start with the chem dog.
Obviously I think that, you know, for whatever reason,
even though it might be like,
even though people might play a small role in something that role could be
super important.
Like it turns out somehow that the cutting that you brought West seems to be
the one that survived and it got,
and I'm not sure if it would be around if you hadn't come out to California
with it.
And then eventually shared it with a few close friends like skunk VA or IC
collective or myself or whoever.
And so, you know, like that might be small,
but it's also important because it was a critical step.
Like when they wanted it back on the East coast,
they had to get it from the West coast because that's where,
and in prohibition, right.
Where people get busted and people move on and things change.
A lot of cool things got lost.
Right.
And so I kind of feel like my only part of the chem dog story is really like
hearing the stories early.
Right.
And maybe helping to preserve it at a time before it was famous.
And then like,
and so perhaps like on the,
on the,
the store thing,
people might not realize this,
but one of the things that Gabby was talking about,
which was critical back then was that information on how to grow good weed
was really hard to come by.
And most people that knew how to do it,
wouldn't be able to do it.
And so I think that's a big part of the story.
And most people that knew how to do it,
wouldn't talk to you.
So,
and stores were also super rare.
Like Gabby is right.
When he opened up his store,
he was the first.
If you want to make me blush,
Francis,
you can repeat.
All right.
So,
so as Gabby mentioned,
when he opened up the store in,
in Mendocino County,
there was like spare time supply,
which was a big player.
spare time supply, which was a big player, but they were predominantly a garden store
and an outdoor store and an amendment store. There was no indoor or greenhouse focused
store going on at all. And stores back then were actually rare, right? And there wasn't
very many of them. And having someone in a store that was knowledgeable and willing to
talk was huge. And it was kind of a risque thing. And even though Proposition 215 had
happened, it was still very much in the shadows. And so I think you sort of opened up your
shop at the very beginning of the 215 medical green rush era, where there was all these
people coming to our county and coming to Humboldt and these different areas that were
new. They had no idea what they were doing. And they were like, I want to set up a garage
in a greenhouse and I don't even know what to get. And so for a long time, it was like
eventually stores became like who had the best price and people were more knowledgeable.
But probably for the first five or six years that Gabby had a store, it was, I mean, he
sold stuff, but it was also like, it was tons of education on what stuff those people needed.
So the store in the early years was basically like a massive educational model. And then
as Gabby and then educated people, they bought things from him. Because they literally hadn't,
they didn't know how to wire stuff. They didn't know about like lighting boxes. They didn't
know about fan movement. They didn't know about any of that. And so it's like they'd
have money and they're like, what's the best set of equipment for my set of circumstances?
And so you have this whole County that was starting to really blow up and grow.
But the funny thing about it is all the stores that opened up, they were all my customers
first. Like I literally taught them everything that they knew about the business.
People don't realize it today, but like information was the thing that was super important. People
literally, they had money, but they had no idea what they were doing. And like, what's
weird about it too, is that you start, like if you spent time there, you learned a bunch
because people would come to you not only to get set up, but they would come to you
with like every problem imaginable. And you would have to, and Gabby would have to sit
down with them and figure out how to solve it. And then the more you help people solve
it, the bigger your like information or expertise or knowledge base grows. So when someone else
brings up that same problem, like you have, right? And so I don't think people today
with all the forums and all the information and all the internet and everything really
understand how hard it was to talk to people that knew how to grow weed, even on the basic
level. Like, and so probably the first five or six years his store was open, it was a
boom time where everyone in Mendo and Humboldt and all these places were just constantly
setting up new stuff. Whether they were indoor, whether they were greenhouses, whether they
were light deprivation, it was just an enormous boom of economy. And maybe 10% of the people
knew what they were doing and would come in and like, would have a good idea of what they
wanted and battle on price and stuff. But often they would come in completely oblivious.
And so I just wanted to mention that I don't think in 2023 people understand how ballsy
having a hydro store was and being willing to openly talk about growing with people. I
mean, that was the era where like you walk into a head shop and you say the word bong and
they toss you out in case you were undercover and they were going to shut down your shop.
For real.
Yeah.
So it was pretty risque. It was like pretty out on the cutting edge of things, if you
will, to do that type of stuff. And so there's an enormous amount of people that got their
start buying equipment and buying soil and buying all kinds of stuff. I mean, one thing I
could mention is like when you opened your shop, dude, we were still all growing in like
light warrior or perlite peat moss mixes and stuff like that.
Gabby was one of the first people to really preach about coco fiber and how it was going
to revolutionize growing.
And people had no idea what it was.
That's wild.
Whatsoever, like at all.
And it was brand new.
OK, go ahead.
So what I remember is that, you know, coco fiber, if I if I remember correctly, the reason
why it became popular was in Europe.
They decided that they wanted more environmentally friendly medium to grow in.
Right. And rockwell wasn't it.
And so they were looking around for something that was biodegradable and a renewable
resource. And they realized that there was these giant piles of coco fiber and Sri Lanka
and India and other places that were just waste products that they shredded off the
coco to get to the coconut.
Yeah. Right. And so they realized that if they started buffering it and treating it the
right way, that, you know, it could be an excellent grow media.
Yeah. And then Gabby got some.
And there was stuff that was from like because in Canada that was R.H.P.
certified, which basically meant it was regulated and it was guaranteed to be a certain
level of quality. And we started growing in it.
And I remember Gabby being like, oh, my God, dude, like we pull pot.
He pull plants out of pots and be like, look at these roots.
I bet. Like literally like look at how white and happy you look at.
Look at. And from that point on, he was kind of like a little bit of a prophet about it.
And no one had ever really heard about it.
And his store had it.
And I think we he got lucky in that he was getting it from reputable sources.
Yeah. And there was other people that were getting it cheaper, but they were getting it full
of like sea salt and it was unbuffered and people were having nightmares in the beginning.
Oh, sure. Right.
But I mean, his store was open right at the time that like coco fiber first started
percolating around and no one had even heard of it.
You know, and, you know, people back then, they didn't even know, you know, it was even
simple stuff like why six hundreds were better than thousands, because they were cooler and
they gave you more points of light.
Yeah. You know, there was a lot of stuff that people consider basic now, which was like
essentially, in my opinion, like hidden knowledge.
And so he's right.
He would just talk all day long to people and they would write out all kinds of lists
of stuff they needed, and then he would hand the list to like an employee and they would
start filling it and he would turn around and he would talk to the next person.
And so he just talked about growing wheat like.
Here's the reality.
Francis was way better than I was.
Really? Yeah.
Well, you know, he was like, yeah, I mean, the thing is, like he had he had patience,
you know, and I'm just like always like I'm trying to help people as quickly as I can.
I mean, I wonder it wasn't like I was rushing him out the door.
I wanted to make a comfortable environment, but I was just always busy, too.
One thing like I pride myself in.
So my hydro store was based on largely a Dutch model.
And the Dutch model was I went to Holland and I went to the growth stores and they all
had expresso makers.
And I had this idea, OK, because when I was working for Slavic, she would always say to
me, Gabby, I want them to buy and get out.
And what I try to tell him is that the longer they stayed, I got opportunities to sell them
more stuff. Yeah.
You know, he would see he would see it as I'm just talking to these guys, you know, for
45 minutes about growing, you know, and that, you know, he'd rather maybe sweeping the
floor or something else.
Yeah. But in the end, what I was doing was building a repertoire with the customers, you
know, that they would trust me and they would shop exclusively at our store and, you
know. They would trust me.
So when I opened up my own stores, the garden spout.
You know, I put a coffee bar in and I had chairs there for the customers to hang out.
And that was pretty unheard of for a growth store was to make a place like I wanted it
to be a cool place where people want to hang out.
Yeah. You know, and of course, some people abused the privilege and got annoying and
we'd have to ask him to leave.
Of course. But for the most part, like it wasn't only me talking to people.
Other people would like hear what people were saying and then they would like interject.
And it became like almost a gathering point, you know.
So as far as how I got involved with the Coco, it's because that's what the Dutch were
doing. OK.
And I met people while I was in Holland at the Horty Fair, which is like a traditional
ag show. Yeah.
And and then when I opened up my store, they had heard about it.
They came and visited me.
And, you know, so the first one we were by because Coco and then Canna Coco.
And then, you know, I started trying to source some myself from some of these reputable
companies. But.
Like I said, like those are the things that I want to be proud of, you know, to me, that
that's like a much bigger.
You know, I think that's my minor flex, you know, I think it's one thing I want to say
about the chem dog flex.
How much of an asshole would I look like if I did flex about my part with the chem dog?
I mean, I think I'd be like I'd be looked at like an asshole, like like you're saying
other people think others are assholes for doing that flex.
Yeah. You know, the only one who's got the real flex is Greg.
Yeah. You know, and like anyone else past that, it's just kind of like, all right, you
have it. What did you do with it?
Yeah. And, you know, like Francis said, people did good shit.
I think Jason made beautiful crosses with the chem dog.
Yeah. You know, and who else?
Oh, yeah, I see. Yeah, them too.
So, I mean, people did great stuff with it.
And that's their flex.
What they did with the chem dog, not their like part of the chem dog story.
Like they acquired it.
OK. You know, and having said that, like, I don't really care.
Like, I don't look I'm happy for Jason and Ben.
That like this could help them in any way, you know, like it's just not like.
Yeah, yeah.
I mean. I love it.
I think it goes back to a different era where the way you got cuts, generally speaking
back then was like you honestly became good friends with someone.
And then what was that like?
And then you shared things and then you did things together.
And now people would call it a collaboration.
But back in the day, it was more just like, you know, friends doing cool little side
projects together, you know, like friends sharing cuts so we could help keep them alive
because there was fires and accidents and busts and different things that could happen
where you could lose something.
And it was much more informal.
So it was like, you know, you know, sometimes people would be like, well, how do you get
cuts? And it's like, I don't know.
You like become friends with someone that has cuts.
But that's not the reason why you became friends.
It's like you have an honest relationship with someone and then that leads to other
things. Yeah.
You know, so it's almost like organic in the way that it like it developed, you know, and
I don't know. That's just kind of how I see it.
But I think I think it's very one thing that it's not necessarily a flex, but I think
it's very, very special to be someone who inspires someone else who does something
quite remarkable.
It changes a culture, whether it's sour, whether it's Kim, whether it's getting to the
West Coast, but helping, inspiring other, whether you're teaching, growing any of that
to be able to like know on your deathbed that you've left something behind that has
inspired someone else and made their life better.
Then that's that, you know, I mean, like that should be good enough, right?
That's the ultimate. I think so.
That's why I said, like, if you called up and said, hey, Gabby.
I was talking with Not So Dog and we want to talk to you about the garden spout and how
you, you know, accomplish so much.
And then it'd be like, all right.
Yeah, I mean, like I'm proud of that and I can actually like, you know, you know, but
like this idea that I had such an integral part of it.
I mean, I had a little part of it.
I brought it out to the West Coast.
I don't want to minimize it either, because I know if I didn't bring it out and it's not
out here and maybe it's lost.
But I don't think we did.
I wish the breeding projects that we did produced more of like what I actually wanted,
you know, like more of a chem dog, you know, terpene profile, because we we did some great
shit, but it just didn't turn out that dog like.
And so if I would have done that, then I could have been proud of that.
And then I could have felt like I had more of part of the chem dog history because I
took it to the next step.
And maybe that is a reason for Jason and Ben to flex, because that is what they're doing.
Right. They're taking plants that.
Pretty much it would be a mistake for most people to grow it, period.
You know, like unless you're looking to use it for breeding, you know, like growing this
for the flower.
And having said that, I want to grow it for flower again, because I feel like I have
knowledge and tools available to me now that I didn't have then, and maybe I could get
it to show me something, you know, better than back in the day.
Absolutely.
You know, the one thing I was mentioning in the discord is leaf tissue sampling.
Yeah. Yeah.
That blew my mind. I hadn't even thought of doing that with it.
Yeah. So I've already done this at facilities that I worked with, worked at.
And so I don't know who to give credit to, but somebody mentioned to me that, you know,
we've been looking in books at this is what this deficiency looks like.
This is what this deficiency looks like.
But generally what that means is this is what a plant looks like when it has zero
nitrogen or like it's not deficient.
It's just absent.
Yeah. And also or extreme deficiency.
Right. And then also those photos never show you what does deficiency look like when
it's a number of elements?
Yeah, that's true.
You know, like because what it's going to look like is going to look different.
And, you know, for years, the standard thing was, oh, add more CalMag.
Yeah. Yeah.
Look, right. Well, what kind of whatever it was, just add more CalMag.
It always makes everything better.
Yeah. It always makes it green.
Plants like calcium.
And when I did my testing, the testing showed that I needed more calcium.
OK, but at least we're not just guessing.
Yeah. You know, the testing is really inexpensive.
It's like seventy five to one hundred dollars per sample.
OK. OK.
And so it's very inexpensive and it gives you a lot of information.
And with the chem dog being the plant that wants to consume itself prior to
harvest, like, you know, two weeks before you're supposed to cut it, you'd have not
a single green leaf left on it.
Yeah. No, it was so hard to keep
this plant. Yeah.
With the with the leaf analysis, we can learn how to feed it a little bit better
and maybe keep it greener a little bit longer and actually, you know, actually get
a product that.
Is more like what we've been looking for all this time.
Sure. One of the one of the thing I might mention, if we're going to like flex for
Gabby here or whatever, is that what time of this is?
Is it? No, but but I know we did that.
You know, I used to go I used to go into a bunch of different hydro stores for various
reasons. And I think Gabby was the first person that I knew that was really pumping
tissue culture, not like the marist stem stuff, but like the profit, like the
cleanliness and the propagation and all that.
And there was this guy, Bill Graham.
Bill, yeah, still around.
And he had these and he had these kits and he used to have Bill come.
Dot com for people that want to look for it.
He used to come into the store and Gabby would have him do demos.
Of how to sterilize like a tub, how to get clean, how to like take clean cuts and like
bleach and sterilize the cuts and then get them into solution.
And I can tell you, like as a as a grower, it looked like some voodoo in the beginning.
I bet. You know, like at the time, nobody was doing that.
Nobody was even thinking about it.
Like nobody was nobody was applying that to cannabis by by any means.
Yeah. And, you know, he had a whole shelf on his store and he would invite Bill in and
he would and they would do demos in the shop and he would get people to try it.
Wow. And all that type of stuff.
And I mean, that was literally in the early 2000s long.
Now it's become like a big.
The only reason that made me think of it is as you were talking, Gabby, about leaf tissue,
like I kind of feel like because weed was so illegal for a while, we were reduced to
observational stuff and we didn't really have access to labs and we didn't really have
access to some of the scientific stuff that regular ag did because we were too scared
and the labs didn't want to deal with us.
So we had to like work off what we saw and talking amongst ourselves.
And now he's right in the sense that you can go get tissue analysis and you can get hard
data that backs up your thoughts.
Right. Yeah. But, you know, tissue culture was like some voodoo.
You know, taking these tiny little plantlets, it seemed very extreme at the time, like why
would you go through all that trouble and you could just plug it seemed extreme.
But now knowing more about diseases, you know, hops, lightened byroid and stuff.
It's I wish everyone would have been using that method.
And, you know, Bill, Bill would come in and and, you know, Gabby would tell a bunch of
good customers and friends and stuff that dude's going to come in and he's going to give
a demo and he's going to teach you how to use this stuff because it was like, especially
to a bunch of growers, it was like some straight voodoo.
It was advanced. So let me say something.
Let's say something real fast.
So I sold a bunch of those kits.
Yeah, and I honestly believe almost no one took it out of the box.
I believe it because it was still it was still too like intimidating.
Like the kid didn't cost shit.
I think it was like one hundred and thirty five bucks.
Yeah. Yeah. Something like that.
You know, it was really inexpensive.
But they had to go buy a pressure cooker and make the gel.
And like, you know, I was able to sell a lot, but like most people were still a little bit
intimidated to do it.
And I remember I was intimidated, too, like I had bought the kit.
I didn't do it for a long time.
And then one day Bill Graham comes to the store and we do it.
And then every single day I was doing tissue culture in my store in front of people that
was just walking in and.
You know, even though they didn't do it, they were still like inspired and it made them
excited about something, you know, so.
But yeah, a few people actually did it.
I wasn't as much I really thought I was going to revolutionize things by like people
adopting this and doing this.
And it was kind of like the seed thing.
They just weren't ready yet.
Yeah. I mean, the thing is interesting in that, you know, I talk about this on the show
quite often where it was like, you know, Gabby and I and some other close like we
honestly were just trying to make better wheat.
And all the seeds we made, all the projects that we did, everything like that,
especially because of what like flour prices were back then, it was a terrible financial
decision because we could have just been blowing up rooms of flour and getting top
dollar for it way back then, you know.
So it was literally like a labor of love.
You know, and it was it wasn't necessarily about like, oh, what do we think people will
like? It was like, what do we like personally and can we make stuff that we like?
And, you know, Gabby, I was thinking about it because Matt and I have been blessed in a
way to talk to some of like Neville's good friends that were close to him in the last
years of his life.
And it's funny because one of the things Neville said is like, I wish I didn't fail so
much. Right.
I don't know if I did if I don't know if the best stuff that I got, I improved on it at
all. I wish I knew that.
I wish I would have known then what I know now and I had a different shot at it.
And so I think that thing that you expressed is very common in breeding, where people
that breed are very self-critical and they tend to discount what they did when they did
it because they wanted it to be better.
And they had their own goals in it.
And then when they reach failure, I mean, there's a lot of things to be there.
If you take it serious, there has to be a lot of failure because you just be hitting,
you know, numbers all day.
And that's that's just not how it works.
That's not how I mean, I don't think I don't think it's failure in the sense of you
produce something beautiful.
It's a failure in the sense of you have an expectation of what you're going to produce.
And you have a lot less control of it than, you know, because that's just ego.
You know, either that or it's really expert breeding or really anal people like I just.
I mean, you would think like so when we did the F1 cross, you know, with back to the
dog, right.
And then we grew out so many thousands of these seeds.
You would have thought that some would have like really been dog like.
Yeah, they just weren't.
You know, so you would think like, you know, when you do that first cross, you get the
most diversity and now you just got to do the hunt.
But the skunk was so dominant.
That. You know, there was traces of it, you know, like, yeah, I like it doesn't.
Yeah, yeah, of course.
It's definitely.
Dogweed, you know, so the other thing I think we should mention, because like the game is
flipped now.
Is that when Gabby and I were doing all this, all the feminized reversals and stuff like
that were still years away.
We kind of thought that like at times that like hermaphrodism and like accidental
pollinations were going to lead you down the wrong path.
All the stuff that we did was with regular males.
And so you had to create hybrids and then and back cross and all that.
And, you know, we had to grow out the seeds to see if what we did did what we wanted.
There was no idea that we could take two females and reverse one of them and add this.
It was all regular.
Well, we knew we could do it, but would never consider it.
Exactly.
We're already selling seeds by that time.
Feminized.
It's just we are.
We thought that hermaphrodism and seeds from hermaphrodism were going to be the best
hermaphrodism and seeds from hermaphrodism were risked for that.
It is because you are going to infect your line with more traits that were bad.
And, you know, and that was just kind of like, I don't know, in the late in the early
2000s, like that was just the the common thread that I'm still uncertain.
I'm still on.
So I was talking to Matthew about this the other day, like to me, like.
It's.
You know, it's weird.
It does.
It seems like it's very common.
It's the it's the.
Well, I know it's common.
I know it's oh, and I know it's commonly done, but I still feel like doing this has
to pose some type of risk.
No, I mean, it's common for you to feel like you do.
Yeah.
But do you think we're wrong?
Yes, I think I think you're totally wrong.
But but to an extent, it's proven by genetics, like by genetic mapping.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I mean, maybe it's just hard for males to accept that, like we might become irrelevant.
I mean, it's actually normal.
I would accept that I would accept that more than the cannabis plant.
It's normal.
Cannabis plant male is the most unappreciated plant on the planet.
I agree.
Now we've gone now we've gone to a point where regular seeds are, you know,
unicorns almost in the cannabis world and almost everything is feminized reversals of
some fashion.
Yeah.
You know, when Gabby and I were doing it, like, you know, the only feminized seeds we
knew of were, you know, accidents.
Essentially.
That's accidents.
Yeah.
I mean, yes, 100%.
I'd never heard of reversals.
I'd never heard.
The only reversals we had ever heard of then was like, you stressed the hell out of the
plant to turn the lights on.
Hermaphrodite itself, you put it in a small container, you gave it drought, you messed
with the light cycle until it freaked out and did some weird stuff.
There was nothing.
There was no sprays we ever thought about trying to like induce anything.
It was like you basically like tortured the plant until it did what you wanted.
Yeah.
That was the tech that we knew of back then, I think.
And it just seemed like the wrong path.
Yeah, like I said, it's very common for people from your era to still have that that mindset.
Everybody we've talked to on here from your exact era all have that same opinion still
to this day.
And it's like, you know, and I mean, I feel like.
I feel like.
So I always say that you're old when you think you know everything.
And so I'm glad that like I'm not confident about this and that every day my opinion might
be going more towards towards yours, Matt.
Like in our conversation we had.
I feel like selfing could be more problematic or it seems like it, you know, could have
more potential for problems.
But so one thing like we're talking about Colin from Ethos, like he said something and
it seems so obvious.
It's like, how can I go my whole life and not think of this?
But when you cross two females, you have so much better idea of what you're going to get.
Oh, for sure.
And like trying to judge, trying to judge what male was the right one to use.
It's like.
I don't know, you know, you have to be you have to be very, very adept or very, very
repetitive.
Yeah, I mean, you have to do things over and over again, you know, and then do a lot of
testing, which is almost impossible to do.
Yeah, like how does one grow out thousands of seeds and preserve every single clone of
every one trying to smoke every female?
Yeah, yeah, I mean, we would do.
Gabby and I would do this thing where we settled kind of like we were doing the super dog stuff
is like, I think we picked out like our seven or eight favorite males based on like looks
and certain traits.
And then we put them all in the room.
Not so usually like the ones with the cute butt cheeks.
Yeah, we put them all in the room and then, you know, they get to a certain point like
you beat them with a with a, you know, a bamboo stake or something like that.
And all the fans are on and you just like the pollen would just spread everywhere.
And we're like, well, it's going to make the hunt harder.
But since we don't know which male is doing the right thing, find was the one we wanted
is just find the one and we wanted maximum diversity.
And that's how that's how you're going to get it.
Trying to be so arrogant that like you can pick it.
That wasn't us, you know, so like having having three or four males in there.
It was a big deal.
Yeah.
Of finding that needle needle in the haystack.
The way we presented it when we gave them to see they're all going to be good.
You know, the two phenomenal plants cross together.
It's just like, they're all going to be good.
But, you know, you've got to grow a bunch of them and you're going to find,
you know, a few that are super amazing.
Yeah.
Do you remember, Gabby, the one of the final one of the final breedings we did?
Like I was trying to I was racking my brain for their names and their names really aren't
important, I guess.
But you had these buddies of yours and they gave us a version of the black domino and
they gave us that warlock.
And those two things, because we did this when we did the like the one of the final
super dog readings, we basically put these like, I don't know, seven or eight different
males that we had picked in there with all of the super dog females that we liked and
then literally like every good cut that we could get access to.
So we had the dog and we had the super skunk and we had the and we had the, you know, the
And we had the, you know, the Mendo P and we had the warlock and the black domino and
we had I mean, like literally every good female cut that him or I had, we kind of
gathered them all up and we put them in there.
So if you found the one you didn't care what made the one you just needed to find the one.
Yeah, I mean, we were knowing what it was, knowing what it was would have been helpful
to try to do more things like that.
But like, for instance, I don't remember who gave me the black domino, but I remember
the reason why we bought it was and I think that was from Sensi seed or purchased seed
from from some seed company.
The description said extremely spider mite resistant.
Ah, yeah.
You know, so the weed was garbage.
It really wasn't that good.
But if we could make our weed like, you know, we could cross it with a, you know, not so
dog and get a plant that was good quality and spider mite resistant.
Yeah, that was a good thing.
Yeah, you know, so that's why that that's why that one was in there.
What was the other one that you mentioned?
For instance, remember the warlock?
They both came from the same people.
I can't remember who gave me that.
Yeah, I remember the weed.
Yeah, they were they were your buddies.
Neither.
Yeah, neither was that good.
Yeah, if you're comparing to chem dog, I imagine not.
I mean, the funny thing is, like, there's things where I felt exactly how Gabby felt.
And then years later, I was like, man, I was just like discounting too many things because
they weren't like my favorite doesn't mean they weren't valuable.
It just means that like, they weren't in my top couple, you know, and as I got older,
I appreciated different qualities to weed, you know, where in the beginning, it was kind
of like, I don't know, you know, you wanted that weed that tasted amazing and like hit
you across the head with a two by four.
Yeah, in a way.
You know, I wanted to cover sour a little bit more.
We talked a little bit about how you met Klopp.
But what were some of your impressions of sour?
Honestly, I didn't have many till much later on.
When was your first experience?
I mean, and we used to grow a lot of it.
You know, I don't remember exactly when it was.
It was one of the deal with it was, it was a highly productive strain of beautiful weed
that we could sell easily.
Yeah.
And, you know, I was, I was on the discord.
And somebody had to remind me or tell me that most of the people in the discord are really
small growers.
Like, yeah, they grow in a tent, and it's for personal use.
And, you know, there's a big difference between that.
And even somebody that grows in his garage, you know, has a 10 lighter in his garage.
Okay, now, you do need to make some money to pay for your expenses.
And the whole reason why you put up 10 lights in your garage was to make a little money
in the first place.
Exactly.
So you have to, you have to do what's marketable.
And that's part of the reason why we gave up on the chem dog in the first place.
Makes sense.
Yeah.
Well, you know, when you're getting such a terrible yield, you know, off of this plant,
like, we couldn't justify, like, we'd have to sell it for 50 to 100% more than we would
this hour.
You know, we weren't getting that much more for it.
You know, so, like, we would keep it and we'd grow a little bit for our head stash.
And like Francis said, you know, somebody was growing it, and we would all, you know,
share a little bit of it.
The shit would never get sold, because we're growing such a small amount of it, that, you
know, it didn't make it to the marketplace.
So, and, you know, I want to publicly say this.
Sure.
I love cannabis.
Should I say that louder?
I love cannabis.
I want to make a living working in cannabis.
And to do that, it's like a total different thing than when you're just trying to grow
for yourself, whether it's in your backyard, or in your tent.
You know, it is, if I was growing just for myself, I would just grow OGs.
That's really what I like to smoke.
Yeah, you know, whether it's the chem dog, or, you know, other really nice OGs.
That's really the palette that I like.
Yeah.
And actually, I should say this.
We want to have a diversity.
But then, there's that always the staple that I go to every morning.
But then I'll mix in some other stuff.
Like, I love sativa turps.
I love citrus turps.
You know, I love to have a variety, you know.
So, as I was telling you guys, I smoke these sauce parts.
Yeah.
And I have like 30 different types of terpenes.
Some of them are so aggressive that it's shocking.
Like, you smoke them, it's almost offensive.
Like, it's too much.
I bet.
But it's still awesome, you know.
So, but still, I still always lean towards the OGs, is what I like.
Right now, in California, in the commercial marketplace, it's hard to sell a lot of OG.
Wow.
And it's a burst.
In the...
That's been going on for a minute.
And I think, you know, like, so in the discord, people are hating on gelato, right?
Oh, yeah, yeah.
But fuck, that's what big farms want to buy right now.
You know, like, people want to buy lots of gelato.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But so, let me tell you a mistake that I made.
Okay.
Having a new nursery, right?
And I have all these genetics that are super awesome, but nobody knows anything about.
Yeah.
And so, you try to sell people on this stuff.
But with today's market, they need to know that they're getting a home run.
Yeah.
And so, it's so hard to get them to try something new.
You know, when right now, they can sell all the lemon cherry gelato they can grow.
Exactly.
Yeah.
So, like, when I started this, I didn't have a lemon cherry gelato.
I was like, by the time I get this thing in mass production, it's going to be like the...
Ice cream cake.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Or, you know, like, nobody's going to want this weed anymore.
Yeah.
You know?
And so, but like, it's managed to have lasting power as far as the demand for the flower
and the clones.
So, if you're growing a 10-liter in your garage, you're really better off, you know,
growing something that people want, you know, and then maybe a small section of it for your
own personal, which is what Francis and I did.
Yeah.
You know, we always grew a little bit of a chem dog, but like, we had to go to a strain
that was more productive and that people wanted to buy it, you know?
The funny thing about the chem dog...
The super skunk is the most beautiful weed.
Like, the chem dog was the best, the super skunk, like, I think that weed is the most
beautiful weed.
I love the way it looks too.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It was green and frosty and it smelled like crazy and it was super pungent and it's a
kind of aroma that like is very universally recognized by Americans as like crazy smelling,
you know?
And I also think too that like, to the point that Gabby was making, it's weird in that
if certain strains don't leak and they don't get out to a certain amount of people, then
the demand for them can't grow, which then makes selling it much harder because we would
try to sell the chem dog and they would be like, ah, this is kind of like some like bag
seed OG or something.
Like, how good could it be if I don't have access to it?
Yeah.
And since there was only like a few garages or something like that and a greenhouse or
two that was trying to grow some, it was like brokers want to buy a home run.
And to them, that wasn't a home run.
And it was before the forum fame and it was before it got like a really big name for itself
in public.
And so people just wanted things that was going to be something easy for them to flip.
There's always a divide.
And so the smugglers market decisions were, I mean, the, I was just going to say that
a lot, especially in Mendo, you know, in Humboldt and stuff like that, a lot of times what broker,
what growers grew, what was, what they heard the brokers wanted and was easy.
So there was a few years there.
Like for instance, if we wanted to go back and talk about, um, like, uh, you know, Gabby's
store, like every big indoor grower in Mendocino County was growing some kind of purple or
goal or granddaddy perps or something like that.
Right.
You remember how many latent ville indoor gardeners, Gabby were growing and Urkel because
it was easy and the brand Urkel yeah.
Granddaddy perks, you know, all those types of things.
And, and then the market shifted and it went to sour and cush and all those growers dropped
the purples and went right into what the brokers want.
And so there's a, you know, there's a lot there where it's like, you might end up liking
a strain, but you end up growing a small amount of it for you and your friends.
And a lot of times you end up growing what the, you know, the majority of what you grow
is what you think the brokers or the market wants to absorb relatively easily.
So here's my new strategy.
I want to have 30% of exclusive stuff that, you know, I'm bringing to the market, you
know, one way or another, I want to have 30% of, you know, up and coming from known people.
And then 30%, but that only ends up to 90%.
So 33% of each 33% of stuff that people want right now, you know, that way I can, I can
sell people what they want now while creating a demand for products under my brand, as well
as partnerships with existing brands, you know, but thinking I could do it all with
like exclusive stuff that nobody knows anything about, even though like it's fireweed that
won the Emerald Cup.
And it's like, that, that takes a little bit more today than it used to.
It's, it takes a lot.
It takes a lot.
Yeah.
And a lot of legal, a lot of legal farms, they're sort of drowning under upfront fees
and costs and taxes and operating expenses.
So they real, their margins are a lot of times quite tight.
So they really want home runs because they're worried about survival.
You know it's not for elite, especially for, you know, for most people, it's not a particularly
lucrative time in cannabis.
It's kind of more of like a stay afloat time.
And the more it's like that, the more people want certainty.
And so that leads to sameness because people want.
It hurts the quality.
It hurts quality and it hurts diversity because people are just trying to produce an already
popular thing at a low cost and get somebody to buy it.
And it's risky.
Like he was just saying to try to promote fire that you personally think is amazing,
but the market might not think that yet.
And so do you have the capacity to like convince them or are you just going to sit on it?
It's different than when your market was, you were showing your friends your weed and
smoking some with them.
And, you know, then it was easier.
Now it's like selling it in bulk to whether it's a distributor or a broker, you know,
everybody, it's too far from the final person for people to be taking these risks.
And so they're just pumping the gelatos, you know, and realistically, like today, I think
in California, most commercial farms, they have some type of gelato in their rotation,
you know, because the market is calling for it, you know, and the consumer, the consumer,
I don't want to call them idiots, but they're uneducated.
That's the best word for it.
Well, it's also to be fair to them, Gabby.
It's also hard to make new decisions when you walk into a legal store and everything
that you want to check out is in a sealed, opaque mylar that they can't touch it, smell
it, smoke it or get excited about it.
They just have to like spend a bunch of money on it and then hope when they open it up,
it's something good.
And a lot of the way these mylars are designed, you don't even see the cannabis inside it
until you've walked out of the store and purchased it.
They just look at what percentage THC it is, whatever has the most, they take that.
That's what they've been told.
And then even if a farmer, even if a farmer wants to take risks, it's not just on the
farmer, the distro and the dispensary also has to be willing to promote that to the customer.
So the farmer oftentimes doesn't even have control over whether or not the customer is
going to get educated properly on why they think it's so good.
Yeah, I really, really try our best to reach out to bud tenders with this show as crazy
as it sounds like they're the last point before the customers.
And we want them to be at least be the most educated out of the whole ring because they're
the ones who interact the most with the customers.
You know what I was remembering, Gabby?
And I don't know, this is a totally random story, but Gabby and I have been talking about
this for a long time, but Gabby and I did a project together where we built this greenhouse
on a property he had.
And we thought it was a huge greenhouse at the time, but now it's like laughably small.
But do you remember when we grew the Maui dude and those buds were so big, we took those
pictures where your head was behind the cola and all you could see was your ponytail and
like your ears sticking out because there was these giant colas coming up.
And we had a high time submission photo.
Yeah, right.
Yeah.
You know, that's what you know, we'd see in high times is like a bud in front of their
face because, you know, we had these giant face.
We had, you know, we grew I mean, we had Urkel and Maui and Superdog and various things in
there.
Those things probably burned in your fire.
But at some point we had all these pictures and that's hard too because I was thinking
about it and it's like before phones had cameras on them, there was so many less pictures taken.
There's so many less, you know, Gabby had some nice cameras.
And so we took some really cool photos of various things that we were doing.
But all it took was a fire or a bust or an accident or something like that.
And all that history would be lost, you know?
Yeah, we got.
Yeah, I always remember that.
I always remember that like of Gabby's head behind these Maui buds.
And all you could see was like he used to have this really long ponytail and all you
could see was a part of the ponytail and maybe the corner of one ear because the bud was like,
you know, because my ears are big.
But I mean, it was pretty risky.
I mean, like, you know, I think like we started on it, the greenhouse was going to be 20 by 50.
And Gabby thought that was enormous.
So we shrank it to 20 by 30.
And he was it still seemed like it was ballsy.
You know, within a few years, it was on the top of it was on the top of the
hill in an open field.
And, you know, a few years later, that kind of stuff was a little bit more than norm.
But at the time, it was coming out of the tree lines and it was coming out of the indoors and
it was coming out of these tiny little scenes.
And it seemed giant.
It seemed giant.
Oh, yeah, for sure.
You know, in that regard.
And, you know, even the idea that you could put something like you just said, in like an open
field and you wouldn't get in trouble.
Yeah, you could actually get away with it.
That always blew my mind about up there in the Emerald Triangle that anybody could do that
because like you could you cannot do that here still.
There's no way.
Well, it's it was always a game of cat and mouse.
And what it was.
Huh?
Like our thinking on it was so there was like a generally like well known or maybe it was wrong,
but we always thought like as long as you have under 100 plants, then it becomes the like the
feds aren't going to want to deal with this.
And the local cops, they're dealing with much bigger people.
So with the greenhouse, they could never actually and actually you're allowed to medically have 25
plants at this time, you know.
So with the greenhouse was like you can't really see what's in there, you know.
And so if you can't see what's in there, then, you know, we felt a little safer.
Maybe it was just, you know, we were kidding ourselves.
Even though you could smell it.
Yeah, but you can't smell it from a helicopter.
And if you could, you wouldn't know what you're smelling because everyone was growing up there.
I mean, it was a remote.
I feel like the whole idea was just like, wait, keep it, keep it kind of small and make it not
worth the trouble of that.
Now, the issue that we never thought of is we had a perfect landing pad over there.
They could have like landed 10 helicopters up there.
Oh, right.
So it wasn't like the shady, like a sketchy mountainside train, like they have no place to
put it.
It was not like they had like a flat motor fucking landing pad over there.
They wanted to put us, it would have been bad.
I mean, I'll bring this up just because I just thought of it.
But like when we were growing the skunk, you know, like that spot we were just talking
about was remote enough.
It really didn't have neighbors that you were too worried about.
But when we were growing the skunk inside, it was kind of before the carbon filter era.
It was more like where you had like, you know, the UOV Nair, like the ozone generators and
stuff.
And you'd grow that skunk and like two weeks before it was done, you'd pull up into your
driveway with your windows down and you'd be like, oh my God, it smells for 50 yards
in every direction around my house.
Like I'm slaughtering skunks, like I'm going to get in trouble.
Oh my God, it reeks.
And we used to do all these things like caulking and like venting and trying to do all this
different stuff.
And it just beat every effort we had to try to contain the smell.
It was uncontainable.
And so and some people would get rid of it because it was too fragrant.
It like caused panic.
You know, it was like, and it's like growing.
The skunk.
Ah, there you go.
So it was the skunk.
Yeah, correct, Francis?
Yeah.
Is that what you're talking about?
It reeks.
It reeks so bad.
We don't know anymore than anybody else.
He knows that it might have been super skunk or skunk.
I mean, the thing about it is for me is that I always thought, Gabby, that like, you know,
that, you know, when you gave me clones, it was like you gave me the dog and you gave
me skunk.
And just by your story, I've been I've been thinking about this too.
Okay.
And, you know, and I know how important this is to so many people.
So I don't want to get it wrong.
Right.
Yeah.
But I explicitly remember getting the skunk from the dude in Virginia.
Right.
And that that plant isn't the one that looks just like the the Scenty seed catalog.
And we had gotten we had gotten the seeds from Scenty.
And that's how we got our original cross that we were that, you know, then we got the males
from to to make everything else.
Like Superdog and that stuff.
So that so that so that's the way I remember it.
But as such an important part of history, you know, I'm not signing any affidavits or
anything like that.
Exactly.
But that's I mean, that's all anyone wants.
You know what I mean?
Like, if you don't quite have an answer, it's best guess.
That's the best guess.
That's that.
That's that's more advanced than we were before.
Yeah.
And I mean, I believe I will repeat the same story the next time I speak to you.
Like you said, that somebody was telling the story and every time they told it, it was
a little bit different.
I don't think I'm going to tell it differently.
No, no, no, no, no.
This is a lot different.
You know, I'm also not swearing to accuracy, you know, no, I smoke a lot.
The problem is, it's a it's a it's a long day.
I'm here is that I did it really.
It's it's literally decades ago.
Yeah.
So, you know, let me ask yourself the question, Francis, didn't we get the seeds in order
to make the first cross?
Yeah.
Here's the thing is that when we were talking earlier, you were like, oh, we just use the
males.
Right.
But we had that from the sensei.
But we had that one female.
Right.
That you that like that you gave me.
So I don't know how that one female came to be, because by the time that I came into it,
like you gave me the you gave me skunk and dog the same day.
So, you know, you don't you don't have it anymore, correct?
I lost it when I got in trouble and, you know, whatever that was.
Does anyone give a shit?
It's gone.
Because because because one of them one of them is probably in sour and one of them is
probably in Kim Doggy and Jizel.
And they're very important.
I think so.
I think that's true.
But I mean, if we don't have it, then like.
But we have we have the last two and we would like to know kind of which one went where
because people don't believe us on that on that little part of it.
Like, I don't know.
So what part is not believed that like the Kim Doggy?
It would would have the same super skunk.
Kim 91 connection.
OK, they still think it's sister.
So they don't they don't they don't believe us.
Yes, we disagree with them.
Probably neither of us will ever be proven right or wrong.
And we can just enjoy this debate for the rest of our life.
I mean, I mean, like, we don't have enough source.
We don't have the source material beyond people's words.
That's true.
You know, to do it right.
Like we need to have all the genetics, maybe.
Right. If we had all the genetics and futuristic technology.
Yeah. Right.
But we already don't have all the possible genetics because it's lost that super skunk.
I could I can identify it from a photo of a bug.
If somebody was growing it like the weed is so unique and it looks just like the fucking
Scenty Seed catalog photo.
Like it's the only way that I've ever grown.
That you could do that with.
Yeah, I'll send you there.
There are people that think it's I mean, this causes all kinds of debate because what happens
now, Gabby, is that people people get get excited about old school famous strains.
And then there's opportunists that are like, I found it.
Now I'm going to sell you clones for high dollar or I'm going to make a bunch of hybrids
with seed and you'll be able to get it in seed form.
And so there's a bunch of fakes that proliferate about various stuff.
There's all these there's all this politics.
The buyer must be aware.
They must be aware.
And that's why you buy seeds from a reliable source like Riot Seed Co.
Right.
Because if not, you know, like, you know, the buyer must be aware.
And, you know, if you're only paying, you know, even $100 a pack, $150 a pack, you know,
you can roll the dice when you got situations like companies that should be remain unnamed
that are selling packs for a thousand bucks or something like that, then you really want
to know you're getting something.
I think genetics are worth that much.
Yeah.
When you're actually getting what you're promised.
If if someone is saying this is what you're getting, this is what you can expect.
This is what, you know, I think, you know, genetics can be worth thousands of dollars.
But when you're dealing with unreputable people and the thing about unreputable people is
they get called out pretty quick.
You know, like the other person we were talking about before.
Well, well, what happens, you know, what happens is, Gabby, is is that.
Honestly, because we don't have genetic testing and because we don't have the guaranteed,
what we have is we have stories.
Right.
And these stories get, you know, like there's people that are like they buy into the story
and then there's people that are like, that guy's a scumbag.
I don't buy his story at all.
But Francis, you know, we answer if we answer these questions, life would be extremely boring
and some people would have no lives.
I get it.
It's true.
You know, it's just like like what are these people going to do when they stop arguing
or or the skunk is right.
I mean, there's funny things where like when I would tell when I would tell those stories
on previous podcasts, there would be people that would get all mad at me and would be like,
you don't know the dude that brought him West.
You were never really friends with that guy.
You're fucking making it up.
I'm like, I don't know.
I mean, I don't know what to tell you, dude.
I don't know.
Why didn't you call me, dude?
I mean, like I got his fucking phone number right here.
You see, you see that?
And yeah, it's here now, you know, I mean, I was honestly glad I even with that, I could
help.
I would rather call you, Gabby, but I'll say it again for people that are just stepping
in.
What Francis said was pretty accurate.
The anything that was inaccurate or not completely accurate was maybe some timelines and minor
details that really don't change the story much at all.
You know, like the basis of the story is the same.
Yeah.
So I mean, honestly, I think you did a better job than I would have been able to just because.
You know, you've been thinking about it for longer and, you know, you've spelled it out
in your mind and possibly on paper what you've thought about it.
He obsesses.
Yeah.
Yeah, well, I mean, really, all those stories just come from like a million times of like
me and Gabby sitting on a couch somewhere stoned, shooting the shit about me.
Yeah, that's where it all came from.
Like it's just friendships, sharing stories about this or that or whatever.
And like, that's honestly like why I believed Gabby so much more than some of the later
stuff that came up was because he didn't have a reason to lie.
Yeah, it was way before the fame.
It was years and years before Skunk DA got on the forums and anybody knew Chemdog like
that the public hadn't heard of it.
It was just stories amongst friends.
And he was able to it was always the same story, no matter how big or fried you guys were.
Yeah, it was just us.
It was just friends sharing stuff, you know, and yeah, and you know, and Gabby and I had
a very similar view on weed in the sense that like we both liked really good weed and
we both wanted to make better weed if we could.
You know, I almost did.
I almost didn't say it, dude, but like way back in the day, I liked Sativas and like
Gabby hated them because he was like, dude, I'm so high strung.
I want weed to like calm me down.
He's like, maybe you're so calm you can get like a little anxious or a little bit higher.
He's like, I don't want to do that, dude.
I need to mellow out like you're mellow enough.
You want to smoke Sativa and get all zippy fun?
Not me.
Down, you know, I need to be brought.
I need to be I need to be mellowed out.
People were telling me to chill out to people like Gabby chill the fuck out.
Well, I'm going to have to stop.
I'm going to have to stop this in a minute, but it's all right.
We're going to continue again tomorrow.
Is that yeah, is that I'll say this is that California is a bunch of you know, there's
it's a lot chiller, you know, Gabby coming from, you know, being a New York Jew coming West.
He was loud.
He talked fast.
People thought it was aggressive, but it was like where he came from.
Everybody talked like that.
Yeah, I was normal as normal could be.
So it was just like, you know, it wasn't anything weird.
It was just, you know, there's cultural differences.
You move from the East Coast or New York to California.
It's not culturally the same.
No, not at all.
From when I moved from Chicago to, you know, to to Mendo, I was like, oh my God, you know,
I mean, I'll end it on this because Gabby's got to go.
But like my best friend growing up that became really good friends with Gabby, too.
He passed away a long time ago, but, you know, he used to do this thing where he'd call it
California nice.
And he'd be like, if you want to tell me, fuck you, just tell me, fuck you.
Don't be nice to me about it.
I'll take it fine.
Yeah, just tell me, you know, you I have no interest, you know, piss off.
Let me add one thing to that before you go before I let you go.
Go ahead.
I remember when I first got to California, it totally freaked me out when like a cashier
would start making conversation with the person in line in front of them, like in front of me.
I'm next in line.
I'm next in line.
And this lady's like, how are you doing?
Yeah, it's a beautiful day.
You know, like, hope you have a great weekend.
And I'm just like, just fucking bring her up so I can get my shit and get the hell out
of here.
Like, exactly like that.
Now I say hello to everyone at the supermarket.
All that.
And now I'm that guy.
You enjoy the rest of your day, buddy.
Love you tons.
All right.
I love you, too.
We can talk more tomorrow.
Thank you.
Want to sit at the table with the syndicate?
Check out our Patreon and our link tree or description below.
Our merch site is officially live.
We have all sorts of shirts, hoodies and goodies to sort you out.
And shipping is super fast.
And most importantly, the quality is top notch.
I've been saving old designs for years for this purpose.
So please check it out.
Syndicategear.com.
We also have an underground syndicate discord where we get together and solve old strain
history together daily.
It's an amazing community of learning away from IG.
And it's an amazing resource for old catalogs and knowledge.
We hope you join our union of breeders and growers.
Come check it out.
