What's up everyone? How's everyone doing?
Getting this shit set up, sorry.
Meow.
Meow.
Meow meow.
Meow meow.
Why didn't it let me view Natsu's request?
What's going on here?
There we go.
Hello Kathy, how you doing?
There we go.
There we go.
What's up buddy?
What's up?
Not much.
Why is the...
Get this rocking.
That's weird.
What?
Oh, normally the people counter up there is like all lit up, but it's dimmed on my thing.
Yeah, same with mine. Weird.
You ever seen it look like that before?
Uh-uh.
Me neither.
Yeah.
Either way, it was something different. It was, you know?
Yeah. Yeah.
So.
I don't know if you want to wait to get started.
There's only 80 or so.
Yeah, there are people popping in. It's growing.
702.
Mwah mwah mwah.
We bullshit for a minute, I suppose.
Yeah.
Before people actually hop on.
But it's going to be kind of a...
You got any new news?
Huh?
You got any new news? Anything good you can share with the public?
Share with the public? Not quite yet.
But.
Not quite yet.
Not quite yet. But.
I mean, I am going on a...
We'll have to actually see about next week because I'm going on that adventure.
To...
Which one?
I'm going to try to find some long lost cutting.
Oh, that one. You're going on the adventure.
I'm going on the adventure, I think, next week. Yeah.
Yeah, one of our buddies is going to be super happy about that.
Yeah, I might even be able to get lunch with them or something.
That'd be cool. Yeah.
It would be neat.
Yeah, I hope you get it, dude. I hope it works out.
So.
We are going to chat today.
About a pretty wide topic.
But people have been asking a lot about it.
Which is sort of like the whole like hash plant topic.
Right? Because it's met different things at different times.
And there's a lot of old famous hash plants.
Yeah.
And there's a lot of breeding that got bred into those.
And then there's a lot of new modern ones.
Yeah. A new modern plants for hash.
Yeah. I mean, not only not by modern.
I mean, like, even like, you know, there was a whole new round of named cuts.
That. Oh, yeah.
That got, you know, hash plant labels or.
Yeah.
Different things. And now hash plant actually means.
You know, something totally different.
Sure does.
You know.
So, yeah, we're going to kind of talk widely about hash plants.
So if you ever have any hash plant questions or anything along those lines.
Today's a great day to shoot them and see what's up.
I got all the I got all the catalogs ready.
I've got illustrations ready of said hash plants.
Most of them. And I even went back.
And because there was one hash plant I thought of that nobody ever really mentions anymore.
But for a while in the like the 08 09 era, it was pretty popular.
And that was the cuttlefish. So I even dug up info on the old cuttlefish hash plant.
The old cuttlefish.
So, yeah, we're going to go over as many as we can remember.
As many as we can. So, yeah, we're going to talk about the history of hash plant.
We're going to talk about a bunch of specific cuts.
People can ask away about specific cuts they're interested in.
Like you'd like, Matt just said, he's got a list.
But like maybe the term hash plant, you know, just to start, right, is kind of a weird term.
Because all Afghans back then pretty much bred and grown for hash.
Yes. But then some strains got called hash plant and some strains got called other names.
Do we know that was Neville the first one to name a strain or did it come over that way with that name and then he used the name?
I mean, I don't know. You know, the only thing that we know about like the G13 and the P&W hash plant is that Neville says he bought them in Oregon through friends of Jorge Cervantes.
Yeah. Yeah.
And Jorge confirmed that, you know.
Yeah.
But we don't know the origin stories.
So I assume he just called it what he got it. It was a hash plant.
Yeah, I assume so, too. I don't know where it where the name evolved.
It would be nice to ask Jorge, but I don't know if he would know.
But it's weird because it's like essentially like hash plant started off as basically being any, any Afghan.
Yes.
Because they were all that's what that's what, you know, marijuana was grown for.
Yeah.
And they were all that to make hash. And so people started bringing over all these Afghans or hash plants or whatever, all these various different things over to America.
And, you know, we talked about this a bunch, but crossing them with a bunch of different sativas.
Yeah.
Right.
Yep.
Is kind of that's kind of that's kind of the beginning of it.
Right.
Yes. So here's this is I could probably jump the gun on showing this one.
I mean, that's not it's not terribly jumping the gun.
So what happened is, is that a bunch of people started bringing over these Afghans because they wanted to add bigger, chunkier buds to their sativas and they wanted their sativas to finish earlier.
Right. Yeah.
So Afghanistan is a super different climate than over here.
So most of these hash plants are Afghans that they brought over.
They just rotted.
Yeah, they just they just read in terrible rot.
So the vast majority of the seeds that people brought over ended up being not that useful.
Yeah.
Like people would go and get their sativas seeds from before they bred that indica into it.
Right. And so there were so early on, early on, the big hunt for hash plants or the big hunt for Afghans was ones that didn't rot.
Yeah.
And that's kind of why I think some of these cuttings became so popular.
Like, you know, because most, you know, most of the breeding that got done just got done with specific mops.
Yeah.
Because once you found one that did that, you traded it.
Right.
Yeah. That's how they did over there.
That's how they did it.
So there's an aspect where it's like Neville went in, you know, Neville even said that, like, because Matt held up his catalog or whatever,
all that hunting that Neville did in Afghanistan, he said, regrettably, like those those Afghans weren't as nice as some of the clone onlys he got sent over from America.
Yeah. Whether that was Big Bud or the Pacific Northwest hash plant or the G13 or, you know, some of the cuttings that he got.
And so these cuttings that did well, you know, the NL5, all these different things start getting passed around.
Yeah.
Because they work.
Right.
And so Neville probably would met with Matt just held up. Neville probably made it really famous.
This is a hash plant pure.
By he crossed the hash plant to like the G13 and the NL1.
And he and then he took a G13 NL1 and he back crossed it to the hash plant again.
And that's what Matt was showing that ugly squat thing hash plant pure.
Yeah, this is the hash plant pure, which I mean, you know, there is debate on whether the PNW hash plant that exists today is this.
But looking at this and granted, you know, different growing environments, everything else, I would be hard pressed to say this looks anything like the cut indoors grown here of the PNW.
It doesn't look particularly.
It looks puckish though.
It sure does look puckish.
I wouldn't say it looks like the hash plant cut that gets passed around either.
But boy, does it look like some ugly puck.
It sure does.
It's bud formation and all that type of stuff.
And so what's weird, maybe I should say this before we move on.
What's weird about what we did, right, is someone just asked.
So Afghan is hash plant now.
The Afghan people grew Afghans to make into hashish.
Yes.
You know, they made hash.
They still make hash.
They don't smoke flower.
So they never called it hash plants.
Right.
Like it was it was just a term that got put on to Afghans.
And then people think it meant something specific.
But all Afghan and Pakistani stuff, that's what they did with their plants.
You make hash, you know.
And so, you know, and so there's an aspect where we brought all these plants over to America.
OK, and started fucking with them, whether they're Steve Murphy's Afghan that started the NL thing or the, you know,
or the the Pacific Northwest hash plan or the Big Bud story or whatever.
But we weren't using them for hash plants.
No, we weren't growing fields like they were and doing anything that they were doing.
Yeah. Right. So what we did, we were looking for them to blend well with our sativas.
Yeah. Right now, that's a trip. Right.
Because that means that right when they got to America, a completely different set of selection pressures got put into play.
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, they were they were selecting for breeding.
They came over here, they've they've been selected to work well in the Afghanistan environment to make to make those people hash.
And we brought it over here and tried to blend it with our favorite weed to get good weed to smoke.
Right. And to and to finish early indoors. Sure. Yeah.
But I mean, all these different like they weren't trying to they weren't there was no indoor.
I mean, we used Afghans for indoor when they came over.
Yeah. But no, they from Afghanistan or Pakistan or that region, they were always growing outside.
Oh, yeah. Yeah. They weren't blowing up houses in.
No, they didn't. They didn't. They came from a cold, dry environment. So they weren't worried about the mold.
I'm just saying that, like all of the farmers looking for for, you know, you know, genetics,
you know, various aspects that benefit an Afghanistan farmer was much different than a Washington, Oregon, California,
indoor or outdoor grower trying to fuck with some Mexicans and some Colombians and some Panamanians and some Thai and blend this Afghan into that and get what they.
Yeah, we had a way different set of selection pressure and we didn't really make hash for a long time, except for for private.
Yeah. Right. Yep.
So, you know, but we liked they were short, they were squat.
They were they had a bunch of crystal, you know, and were visual creatures, too.
So frosty looking nugs work better for Americans, you know.
And so what were the what were the famous what are the famous earliest hash plants?
So the early ones, I mean, as far as the earliest, we're going to go, you know, like, I mean, the PNW, there weren't a lot of early, early hash plants.
Some of the ones early in the scene would be like, you know, there was the seed bank hash plant, which would be their hash plant pure,
which would be different from, you know, the G13 or the hash plant in a one which was using the G13 hash plant.
And one we have the puck, of course, a.k.a. Skelly.
We have the cuttlefish hash plant, BC hash plant.
There was also a champagne hash plant, which I'm not sure is different from the BC hash plant.
The Canadian folks will know we have hash plant 13.
Yeah. And some of these some of these aren't even necessarily from the hash plant family of strains that came from Neville.
You know, some of these were just called hash plant because of whatever reason it became a bit.
Hash plant is a bit like cush. In that it's a general term that applies to a wide variety of things.
Yeah. You know, and why one thing was all labeled cush and another thing was labeled hash plant when the cush was destined to be made into hash.
Yeah. It's just one of those language things that happened.
Yeah. And there is there is some confusion. I guess we can go into individual ones in a little bit.
So if you want to continue. I don't want to jump it.
No, I mean, so that's basically like and then it became famous because in the 80s, as as he just showed, Neville started calling things hash plant.
And there was famous hash plant hybrids.
And mostly Americans used it because it was a short squat, decent yielding frosty plant inside.
Yeah, we weren't you know, nobody was really making hash in America. We smoked flour mostly.
Oh, go see. Champagne was different from the B.C. Very interesting. Good to know.
And it's actually interesting. Maybe if you were going to jump around, but I'm going to really jump around to like today.
So when when we first brought over all these hash plants, they were brought over and they had been bred to be excellent hash plants.
Yeah. Right. And people like people in Europe and in the know and, you know, Sammy and stuff have told me that they feel like a lot of modern cultivars.
Like a really shitty hash plants. Yeah. That a lot of the traditional ones that were bred for that specifically and bred for resin are much better plants for that.
Yeah. Because they were never bred for anything else. Yeah. And now with the legalization and all that and the hash revolution that's happened with all these various elements and dabs and everything, we're actually like looking.
People talk about dumpers. Yeah. Right. They talk about hash yield a lot in various ways and methods.
And so figuring out what plants are good hash plants is like back in vogue. Yeah. Kind of for the first time ever. Yeah.
Like on on any kind of like commercial scale, people are making hash here privately to share with their friends forever. Yeah.
But as far as like a like a major thing, it's probably it's pretty recent. Last 20 years, probably. Yeah. Easily.
And now with testing and people can be like, oh, this thing washes six percent or this thing washes this. People start hunting for hash plant yields. Yeah.
And what is a good washer? What what keeps its flavor? But we went 40 fucking years. Yeah. Without those pressures being applied.
This is this is good input from archive. He said dumpers are mainly just plants with higher than average THC to turf ratio. Yeah, that's good.
Yeah. So, you know, so there's an aspect where it's like for a long time from what most people is hash plants came over here and got mixed with other weed.
Yeah. And it was for breeding purposes, you know, because like if you look at the puck or you look at that picture, you know, some of those things were short, squat, ugly.
Mm hmm. You know, they weren't the most attractive things always. Yeah.
Even even chem 91, you know, aside from hash plants, chem 91 is another Afghani not necessarily known for its beautiful qualities.
Same kind of way. Yeah. So but they started becoming famous because he put them in the first catalog. Yeah. And so there was hash plants.
And then, you know, like he was saying, the skelly, there's some that survived from back then that became got really well known. Yeah.
But they're not related to. No, not not a lot. Just someone's asking me to show the hash plant pure again. So I'm going to show that again.
Mm hmm. There we go. So the hash plant pure Neville took the hash plant clone only he got from Oregon.
He crossed it to a male and L1 and then he took a male of that hybrid and crossed it back to the to the hash plant. And that was his hash plant pure. Yeah.
And that's honestly kind of like what he did with a number of things, like when he offered his Hawaiian indica.
There's a number of things where he crossed it once to NL one and then crossed a male of that hybrid back to itself and just release that as a pure line. Yeah.
That was actually a reasonably common tactic.
And yeah, it's the list. It does appear that Neville got the hash plant and the G 13 on the same trip at the same time from the same people.
Even how would you have liked to have been able to grab a pack of that? Yeah.
Afghan mix Neville's sold Neville's sold seeds that Jim Ortega had given him. Yeah.
He got so many that he he offered up the same seeds that he found all of the maple leaf stuff.
And he sold for a couple of years as just 50 pack 50 pack breeder packs and 150 bucks. Yeah. Yeah.
Unreal. Neville was cool in that sense and that he pretty much just told you what he was crossing.
There was no real secrecy behind it. You know, but he was also first. So he didn't have to hide anything. Yeah, that helps.
But yeah, you know, the these hash plants, some of these hash plants have gotten famous.
It's very likely that the scout the puck is a direct descendant of that picture, Matt.
You know, that's the rumor, at least that it seeds from then. And then our buddy Bodie has a pretty famous lot number of lines out that him and other people have used. Matt got some of those from Ndn guy.
The G13 hash plant, which was 1988. Yeah, I mean, that's that's kind of how they how they type it or whatever.
But it's basically supposed to be from the first year that Neville released the G13 hash plant hybrid. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Yeah.
I mean, I who knows what what they were really from or what year or which seed bank or any of that.
But that was the story given with them. That was 1988 since he seeds hash plant was or G13 hash plant, which was what they said.
So whatever it is, I mean, it's it that exists. And so a lot of people have that and people have puck hybrids and some people still have the puck clone.
Yeah. You know, and so there's some old hash plants that exist, but you can kind of like and then there was kind of like another wave where people started kept using the nickname.
Yes. But it was all grown for flour. Yeah.
In my opinion, nobody was really making nobody was really using it the way they used it in Afghanistan.
No, not not in the US.
Not in the US. So. But yeah, there was there was something puck is the hash plant, you know, or they think it is.
That's what I mean. It looks like traditional hash plant and the hash plant strain like in that picture. It does have a lot of similar traits.
It does have a lot of similar traits, you know, and it's out there in the community and stuff like that. People breed with it.
So, you know, at the very least, it ties back to something old. Yeah. But that's most basically what they were doing is is in America.
We were looking for like hash plants and Afghans that we could cross to other things and would bring the flowering time and the height and had some crystal and some density.
But but keep but keep a lot of the other qualities from the sativa. Yeah. Those were sort of the first blends that people were after was they wanted structurally what the hash plant did.
Yeah. And the flavors of the sativa and the high. But the flavor and the smoke and the stretch, you know. Yeah.
So, you know, it's one of those it's one of those aspects where we put a bunch of different selection pressures on it, but kept the name. Yeah.
See, we got here. So one of the ones often mentioned is the cuttlefish, you know, like not often mentioned, I should say.
But in the in the like late 2000s, it was used a lot by sub schools crew. And best I could tell, I remember talking to Jill about about it came from bad boy, whoever that was, one of their buddies.
And it was actually a super skunk cross to skunk. Skunk one. And it was like a fruity. They say skunky fruity. I'm not sure on all that. But yeah, that was what the cuttlefish hash plant was.
It wasn't even a since he has plant or seed bank hash plant. It was a super skunk skunk one.
So we we had a bunch of people that were just asking about the G13. So we could focus on that for a minute.
If you want to come on and talk to you 13, you're from that area.
So like I said before, one part of the story is that Neville said on one of his American trips, he bought the G13 and the hash plant clone. Yeah, from somebody. There is.
What's up? Hey, what's up, guys? How you doing, buddy? Good. Good to see you, dude. Good to see you. Yep. Going on.
Just hash plant hash plant.
The old Northwest favorites. I mean, I think something that people forget is that the Northwest specifically like Washington State is what HID lighting company came from.
It's where some of the first hydroponics companies came from. Like the early 80s. This was the spot to grow weed because the climate is really good for having heat inside your house generally all year.
Everybody's always like, oh, the humidity is so high up there. Well, if you know anything about, you know, relative humidity air, that's 45 degrees and 80 percent humidity.
And you bring that into like a 75 degree grow room and hit it with all that heat from all your equipment makes a perfect climate.
Yeah, I bet.
So you always hear people, oh, there's mold or powdery mildew. I mean, I know tons of growers from up here and powdery mildew never existed in anyone's garden until clones started coming up from.
Specifically from Ed Rosenthal's operation in the early late 90s, early 2000s with the other lady's name that was running it. But they would like I mean, they spread that shit worldwide.
That's what you want to be known for.
You know, centralized clone selling is really what has spread most problems everywhere.
Absolutely.
The dudding, the, you know, the the viroids, the powdery mildews, bugs, all these various different types of things.
When people were just getting clones from their buddy or a small group of friends, it kept most problems localized.
And it's when people start stopped maintaining their own mothers and will just like, oh, I'll fucking buy 200 cuts for my next run and started getting them from dispensaries and getting them from these centralized places.
That's kind of when all these issues started spreading like crazy was because they get into a poorly run Ed Rosenthal situation or they get into a dark heart or whatever.
And then they would just sell to thousands of people.
Exactly.
Well, let's talk to G13.
What do you know?
So he probably knows, but I will I will say one more thing and then I'll shut up.
Is that, you know, Neville says that he got it on this trip and Jorge confirmed it when we interviewed Bjornsson, right?
That was like the one tidbit that we got was he remember he said that the G13 was actually called the UW.
The UW.
That's what his statement was.
That was like literally in an hour and a half of talking.
That was the one piece of weed history that he casually mentioned that like was was any.
But, you know, it seems like it was one of those like like Fletch was saying, it was one of those things where they were collecting different clones that worked good indoors and trading them.
Yeah.
Right.
Even up here, people were really reserved about sharing any kind of clones.
That was true, you know, probably up until medical changed in like 2008 with Obama's whatever that that announcement was where everybody basically started growing weed because it said the feds weren't going to fuck with you anymore.
Yeah.
So before that, getting clones was hard.
I mean, people, you know, everybody just if you had weed, you never told anybody where it came from.
So even if it was from your garden, I mean, there's plenty of people you buy weed from.
You never knew they grew weed.
Yeah, for sure.
They just said their uncle got it or whoever.
Yeah.
And so but the G. So what were we talking about?
G13 or which one?
So you're talking about the G13, you dub stuff like that.
So you dub and G13 as far as I know, there's two there's historically only two clones.
Yeah.
Airborne, which is from Ohio.
And then there's Pacific, which is from out here like West Seattle.
Yeah.
The Pacific was named Pacific because of the user Pacific on Cannabis World.
Yeah.
And she he I can't remember.
She was like in some band or and I can't she was some kind of, you know, modern shit of some sort.
Yeah.
Back then.
But she had two different clones.
I think that's how she like to be referred to.
And was the you dub purple or I think didn't she call it you dub purple map?
Yeah.
You dub black or purple.
I don't know.
You dub black now.
She said shit that people made up out of nowhere.
Yeah.
The the you dub purple, I think, was and I think she would sometimes call it purple G13 up here.
But the interest, like having been around here for a long time, I never saw the you dub purple or purple that she had.
Yeah.
It is the same as the purple Indica Tacoma family of plants that's well known up here in Washington, which is like how me and Caleb ended up becoming friends 20 years ago.
It's because he had the Oracle.
I had the P.I. from up here.
We knew those were families of plants that were localized to our areas.
And we were trying to figure out, hey, are these things related?
Are they similar?
And me personally, having now worked with the purple Indica a lot and knowing its history up here, I mean, it wasn't even called purple Indica when I got it up here.
It was just an unknown clone that I received and I was just able to identify it as a plant from that family of purples.
Yeah. Yeah.
Caleb and I, we got this other clone that we call the Tacoma Purp that came from user Stoney Puff and stuff on this world.
And that was a different clone, but the same family of plants.
I also had pot bag seeds in like 2002 of that from those bags of that same weed.
Yeah.
Plants, they were all almost identical to, you could have passed any of them off as any of the purple weed that comes around up here.
Yeah.
And that was kind of, that's kind of the same with Urkel.
You know, it's like you've got Urkel.
For sure.
Grape Ape, all that shit.
71, whatever.
You got like 20 different versions of the same, essentially, genotype of...
Expression.
Yeah.
Genotype, phenotype within a population or whatever.
Yeah.
So, and it's hard to say whether the chicken or the egg came first.
Right.
Yeah.
Did the Urkel come first or did the GDP? Which one came from which one?
And unless you have a history of it, it's pretty hard to figure out.
So, the G13, the airborne G13 that I've seen is probably most definitely related to the lemon G, aka lemon G13, as it was also called.
Okay.
Both carry this trait and it's also a, I think it's a virus that transfers from, it proceeds from parents.
Right.
I don't have the actual data to support exactly that.
But, for example, the lemon peel that I have is crossed with iodine.
That has a rat or virus.
We have tested for that.
Right.
It's had it, I mean, like after the second run from clone, it had it.
And I've never, it doesn't transfer to any other strains at all, except for lemon G hybrids.
Weird.
G13, so...
That is really weird.
And so does the lemon G itself.
What kind of virus is it, do you know?
Rat or virus.
What is it?
I'm sorry.
Raspberry dwarf virus.
Interesting.
I never even heard of that.
So, anyways, my point is simply that there can even be, you know, stuff like that that can show you potentially a genetic relation.
Yeah, for sure.
But, I mean, we've never sold pure lemon peel hybrids, you know, for the same...
Yeah.
That's wild.
I think the airborne is the one that Pip showed us, not so, the one that he was keeping his G13 that he called Ohio G13.
And I think he had a similar theory that it was related to the lemon G.
Well, he had the lemon, I mean, he rocked the lemon G like he monocropped it in that region for years too.
He was really familiar with it.
And I will say that, you know, one thing about the Pacific that makes me think that it's probably old is that it is really ugly.
You know, it's not a pretty plant in my opinion.
Which one?
The Pacific, you know?
Oh, yeah.
You know, like, or Pip's very, like, the G, like, I mean, that's kind of like one of its things, right?
Whereas like the G13 was like when Neville would chat about it, like, you know, he said it was kind of ugly, but it had crazy, you know, it added a bunch of potency and a bunch of crystals.
Yeah.
But by itself, it wasn't all that good.
So, when I did all those high times events and everything, you know, every once in a while you'd have someone come through that, and they were always old timers, you know, like, these are more.
And they would just come through and just tell you some information about a strain that you potentially have on your menu or have hybrids of.
And this older lady, Kate, had come to my booth, I think it was either at Emerald Cup or one of the other high times events.
And she told me, do you know what the Lemon G13 is?
And I said, well, I first had gotten it from Shroomy back in like 2005 or so.
So, I knew it was old.
I knew it was from Ohio because he was in Pittsburgh.
So, it was from right across the border there.
And the Lemon G was like, you know, it's a very distinct plant.
You can't mistake it for anything else.
It's smell, how it grows, it's kind of like just a really big plant with big buds, but kind of not the most resonant thing.
She said that it was the G13, right, that's from out there, with a skunk misty from Sensi Seeds that hermited onto it.
And that's what that story.
Yeah.
And it makes perfect sense to me if you look at the plants, if you've ever grown, it does have skunk number one type growth characteristics.
That's where those long running colas came from.
Exactly.
Exactly.
Skunk number one from Amsterdam.
If you've grown the Airborne G13, that weird wet, sour, bitter smell, brine smell, that's from the Airborne G.
And so, it's like you can smell it between the Airborne and it's pretty obvious.
Like I was saying, between all those factors, plus the dwarf virus that's self-contained to that specific family of plants, it's pretty identifiable.
Yeah.
I can't say for certain whether or not it's all 100% the same family.
So, that kind of covers the Airborne G13, right?
Yep.
Most likely a clone from Ohio.
I don't know any other history other than that.
And most likely the parent to Lemon G as well.
Yeah.
That's what I know as well about it.
It survived in Ohio.
This is a little off topic, but since we touched it a little bit, what do you think on the Purple Indica versus Urkel?
I've grown enough, oh that's what I was going to say earlier.
I've grown enough PI hybrids that I've gotten Urkel phenotypes from Purple Indica hybrids.
Wow.
So, it wouldn't surprise me in the least, especially considering how widespread that Purple Indica clone or that family of clones was.
I would bet money if you showed that Purple Indica to Greg, that he would immediately be able to identify it.
Just like every other guy I know that's been up in Seattle and Northern Oregon for the last 30 years growing weed.
Almost every single one of them, you can pull it out.
It's immediately identifiable by them.
I've never tried. I should.
Let's see what he says.
Yeah, what I'd like to do is go out there and bring him a bunch of samples and see if he can identify anything.
You guys are close? I mean you guys are kind of close out there, yeah? I mean relative.
No.
Oh.
But you know what I'm saying though, is that like, who knows what kind of smells he could potentially identify as just being related to something.
Just like I was talking about the Lemon G and the G13.
Yeah.
And then the Pacific G13, I never saw anything but a couple samples of it and it never was very impressive.
The UW Purple, that Purple family that we were just talking about, Purple Indica, those are definitely not related to the Pacific G13.
And then UW was just a name for any weed that came out of the University of Washington area of Seattle,
which was like kind of where you would go buy weed off the streets.
You know, kind of like Park and New York kind of deal.
Yeah.
It's like go down to the U District and you could buy weed off the streets.
And then you had, you know, between that, the glass blowers, which was a giant part that is often overlooked.
Yeah.
I glossed over as if it wasn't an important part of it, but the glass blowing scene was a large part of the distribution network of clones around the country back then.
Very much so.
You know, when I first got the Trinity and the Snow and a bunch of those things, that was all out of Eugene glass blowing circles.
Exactly.
You know, it was all that was that was one of the ways that hippies spread and communicated and they were blowing pipes and they had ends.
Exactly. The dog shit, same channels.
Try and think of other strains that were glass scene.
I mean, there's a handful of strains up here that that maybe haven't gotten any airtime, but the cough was super.
Oh, yeah.
Through the through the glass blowing scene.
I mean, the cough was like a.
Oh, somebody just said the Quimby.
That's another one.
Quimby.
I heard of it.
The Quimby is just another is from Oregon.
It's just another like old school.
It was one of those strains passed around those same circles.
The green doctor.
That was one, too.
You know, they even had their own four way.
Which wasn't like a four way from was like a four way from Oregon.
But they just called it the same thing.
But it wasn't anything related to Neville's or anything from Europe.
It was like Trinity by something by something.
I can't remember.
For sure.
But.
So that was that's my knowledge of G13.
You know, it's it's somewhat anecdotal, but I've seen a lot of samples, you know, over the years.
So hold on a second.
People are saying we're not just hearing facts.
We're hearing conjecture about G13.
The reason for that is because the G13 is from the 80s, which is a long fucking time ago.
And the memories are old and some of them are legends.
What we what we think we know for sure is that it came out of the Pacific Northwest.
And that's when it first popped up.
And friends of Jorge Cervantes gave it to Neville, who took it to Europe and bred with it.
And I can add to it.
And the name supposedly came from the license plate as best as I've dug up.
And the license plates.
And so it became and it became traded.
So then it was bred in the Europe and then it was traded in the Pacific Northwest.
Then it kind of became this legendary thing for the most part.
And so some of it is conjecture because you have all these things called G13.
But what's their origin?
I mean, one thing I'd like to mention is that when I first started growing, G13 was not a really well-known subject.
The only thing was some Internet folklore about it and the fact that it was in the catalog back in the day.
That was the only knowledge about it.
And no one really gave a shit at all about it until that movie American whatever came out.
American Beauty.
A thousand dollar ounce of G13 on the fucking American Beauty movie.
And everybody's like, what's that G13 shit?
Is that some shit came from the government?
It's the same thing that happened with UW.
When I was buying weed, UW came from an area.
It could be multiple different strains.
It was like Crippie or any of those other names.
It was a single variety.
And then once you had the medical scene around here pop up and you had people trying to stake their claim in the ground.
But weren't really in the scene prior to that.
They're like, I have the original UW.
Dude, there never even was.
The fact that you're even trying to say you have the only UW is how I know you don't have it.
Because it doesn't exist.
You're trying to stake a claim about something that was just a name.
It wasn't specified to a variety.
Yeah.
Very much like Thunderfuck.
Or even Diesel.
Yeah.
I mean, my buddies who lived in New York in that era, that was slang for dank weed right then.
Was it that Diesel?
You got that Diesel.
I mean, now it means something much more specific.
But it started off as just slang for good weed.
Exactly.
And no, Indian Guy did not have anything to do with G13.
People making up stuff.
So while we have you here, let's talk to another hash plant.
I know we've done this before, but I don't think we've done it on the Syndicate Show.
HP13.
Yeah.
I mean, my only experience with it is that I went to those parties in Hawaii back in the early 2000s.
And that's the same Jason King Cannabis group of people.
And that was the only place I ever saw it.
And it was well known amongst their circle that it had come from New York City or from New York City somewhere.
Right.
It's not from Hawaii.
It was brought there by, from my understanding, a bunch of hippies.
Okay.
And that's basically it.
What do you think about it?
Do you deserve the hype?
No.
Well, when I first saw it and it was like jungle grown, I was like, oh, hell no, this shit's not right.
Yeah.
And I think I got the clone later from Caleb.
And I grew it.
I like the turps on it a lot, but doesn't transfer to flavor particularly well itself.
It's more one of those strains you can taste it because it smells so strong, not because it converts to a really tasty flavor.
Yeah.
And it's hermeprone.
The lower bottoms on it always through sacks if you have light leaks or anything like that.
And it's pretty hard to breed with, in my experience.
But it has one of the more unique terpene profiles out.
So that's one thing Jason King was correct about, is that the turp profile is unique.
It's always a bummer to me when the turp profile is so strong and direct and then it doesn't translate into the smoke.
Like bubble gum?
Yeah, like the version of bubble gum.
Sometimes the smell and the... I mean, that's the same thing true with hash too.
Sometimes flavors on flour don't translate into any of the hash you make with it.
Yeah.
It's not that HP 13 doesn't have a good flavor.
It's just like it's so strong you expect... it promises to deliver more than it actually does because the smell is so potent on it.
Right?
Yeah.
But one thing I've found with having run through so many seed plants over so many years is that there's this fine line between...
There's like three different types of textures of wheat in my main textures.
There's really terpy stuff that's low in THC and it kind of has that soft, silky feel to the resin.
It's not sticky.
It's not tacky.
And you can't wash with it at all.
Right?
Then you have like the other end of the spectrum, which is like really high in THC.
But whatever terpenes are in it, don't make it slick.
It's just like alcohol and water.
You add enough alcohol to water and it won't freeze.
Right?
Yeah.
Most terpenes and thiols and everything else in it are like alcohol-like compounds.
They have low freezes.
So when you mix that with THC, you need enough THC to stabilize the terpenes or vice versa.
Right?
So you have really terpy, low THC.
It kind of has that soft feel.
And sometimes the shit just doesn't translate to flavor no matter how terpy it is.
Yeah.
Then you have this stuff that's like all THC but no terps.
And that shit washes like crazy, but it always lacks in flavor.
And then you have stuff where it's really fucking terpy and it's really high in THC.
And it's that stick-to-the-wall type shit.
Yeah.
And that's almost always the best flower to smoke.
That's like all the old elites that ended up testing between 18 and 24% THC or something.
And they just had that blend of terps and flavor and enough potency to get you there.
Entourage effect, whatever you wanted.
It was interesting for me seeing a bunch of... holding a big library.
And then when testing first started happening and you started getting to see what your weed was like.
Me realizing that... I don't know about you, Fletch.
I don't really like most 30% plus strains.
I kind of find them bland.
The ones that work best for me are somewhere in the low to mid-20s most of the time.
I mean, I don't think it just tastes really strong.
I don't even care about the potency of it.
At the end of the day, I used to have... still have hundreds of jars available if someone comes over.
And they can smoke through whatever.
And that purple indica only tests like 15 to 18% on a good day.
And for 20 years, no matter what everybody picked out of my pile of jars to smoke,
they'd always say that was the most potent strain to them.
Had the most narcotic effects.
So, obviously THC isn't the only thing.
The other thing is there's hundreds of known cannabinoids.
We only test for like 10 of them maybe in most bio assays.
And we've just found... like, did you guys see that Italian research paper
where they found that THC that's 30 times more potent than THC and they found it in flour?
So, okay, so if you have 1% of that, that's the equivalent of 30% THC.
So, if you have flour that's 20% THC and then have 1% of this secondary cannabinoid
that we currently don't test for, THCP if that's what it is,
that shit might feel like it's 50%, right?
Because you've got 30% with that extra potent stuff.
It's like heroin and fentanyl.
You know?
It is much more fentanyl.
Yeah, absolutely.
And for people asking, this will be up on YouTube after.
We're going to try to have it up in audio as well later on.
So, that's kind of a tangent, but it's basically, in my opinion,
there's absolutely no way to tell how well weed is going to work on someone
by the available testing that we commonly do today.
You can get a general sense of low or high THC and you can get some terpenes
and you can learn some things from it, but it's not comprehensive enough
by any means to tell you why it works the way that it does.
Yeah, I mean, you're talking about we're only testing for, you know,
5% or 10% of the potential cannabinoids, most of which the other cannabinoids,
we don't even know what they do still.
And then you're talking about we test for a small portion of the terpenes
and thiols and everything else that produces.
So, it's like we're going to start making assumptions with 10% of the data.
Yeah, that's bad.
We're going to start making assumptions about the plant with 10% of the data.
That's pretty useless science right there.
It's almost like phyllos creating a whole system on it telling you
you could have genetic relation with about the same.
And it's also quite possible that we put the most importance on THC
simply because it's the oldest compound we know of that relates to marijuana.
And so, we've just all been preconditioned to accept that that's the big macro.
No, you know why we're preconditioned?
It's because that's the compound they made illegal.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You know, that's the one that the government said was the most important compound.
And at the end of the day, it's probably not.
That's kind of my whole point.
We could know 15 or 20 years from now that this combination of cannabinoids
or whatever is actually way more important to like this specific feeling
than any number on that level.
Exactly.
You know, so.
And now all these people breeding for 32% THC with no turps and still smokes
like fucking smoking gravel.
Yeah.
And it's all because we're using a testing system to sell stuff to consumers
that isn't even in their best interest.
You know, Fletch, you said something the other day, and I know it didn't,
like a lot of people found it controversial, but I thought I could relate to it very well.
And you made a comment that you're done with regular seeds, and it's on to fem seeds.
Can you like extrapolate on that a little bit so people understand what you were actually saying, saying?
Oh, I'm just making jokes most of the time.
I know, but it's relevant, right?
People take this shit way too seriously.
But I mean, you know, the people that always have the most to say are typically the people
that are offended by it the most, right?
And why are they so offended?
Well, maybe they're not so proud of what they're doing.
I don't know.
I just related to it so much.
Trying to sell regular seeds in this market right now is very, very difficult.
There's not as much of a – I don't even know if there is a big market left for regular seeds at the moment.
No, I mean, most people aren't particularly – you know, especially with the compression in pricing,
people are not concerned with doing things the right way.
They're concerned with how they're going to pay their bills and make it to the next crop
or keep the lights on at their facility or whatever.
And I mean, that's why you got people that are like – you know, they got a thousand lights up.
They don't know what to do with any of the product.
And their choices at that point are I'm going to partner with someone that's going to run the thing
and sell it all for me or I'm going to start hitting up people that work at nurseries of other businesses,
tell their nursery employee, hey, I'll give you $50,000 to buy a clone from whoever, right?
And then try and undercut their market.
And it's like, look, you're never going to create a market for yourself
by always just picking up the scraps of somebody else's.
That's a fact, man. It's a fact.
So, you know, what's the point of picking up someone else's scraps?
It's like you should be working on your own stuff because then you can have enough burn rate
on whatever that product is for yourself that you can take advantage of that
and be proud of what you're doing and, you know, that shit won't offend you anymore.
Yeah, that's a fact, man.
One thing I've learned too is that all these dudes that like to knock stuff off,
that's what they do for a living.
It's all going to come to a screeching halt when a lot of the people that are producing unique shit
are no longer doing it.
You know, once those people are removed from the equation, then who's going to make the unique shit?
No one. They're cut off. They're done, you know?
Exactly. It's like, what's the point in all just chopping each other's legs off
when we could all just be producing something only a generation or two removed,
but is now because you did your work and found something cool.
Now the market's bigger instead of smaller, right?
Yeah.
If you guys want to survive, you better work on making the market bigger
for everybody that's in it, not smaller.
Yeah.
It kind of reminds me of like the human nature aspect of all this shit, you know,
because there's a part of it too where, you know, you think about it like in music or something like that,
when there's like something, you know, people come out and they just create something
and then that creates a demand for it.
And then there's a whole bunch of other musicians who follow in their footsteps
because it's easier than creating their own thing.
Now there's like a heavy metal genre. There's like a gangster rap genre.
There's like a, there's an era where like, it's not named.
People are just doing shit.
Exactly.
Right?
And so what's happened with the named, you know, strain game basically,
is that rather than people breeding a bunch of weed that they like
and trying to get more weed that they like, they're like,
oh fuck, this thing from Archive or Matt or whoever is blowing up right now.
I'm going to cross everything to Dossido.
I'm going to cross everything to Skittles.
I'm going to cross everything to Cushmans.
I'm going to cross everything to, because it's popular
and they're trying to put their own flavor on it.
But it's not like it just happens in weed.
That happens anywhere where there's opportunity.
Right.
And, you know, the other thing I was thinking of when you guys were talking about
the breeding aspect was that even talking about Seeds Today,
when, you know, when Neville was on Mr. Nice or whatever,
he used to talk about people would all the time bitch that they wanted
all these pure indica hybrids.
Yeah.
But if they didn't yield through the roof and they weren't amazing in every way,
they'd bitch up a storm.
And so he was constantly thinking about like what he could release
and what the public would accept.
Yeah.
So it made me think that even today, right now,
there's a difference between what the public says it wants
and then where its money talks in terms of buying seeds.
Because it says it wants a lot of stuff that it doesn't really support.
Exactly.
Right.
I think it's the price compression.
Like everybody's looking for, everyone wants something different,
but they all want to sell, have the same sales strategy.
Right.
Purple frosty and want to sell a hundred pack.
Right.
Yeah.
I mean, they're not everybody.
I mean, there are companies that are phenom hunting.
They're working on providing unique varieties to their business,
regardless of whether or not it's a hype strain or not.
And they're in all markets.
I mean, there's a good amount of those companies that are working on it now.
But the problem becomes, depending on how big their business is,
is the most productive varieties typically aren't the dankest.
And if you're selling to a wholesale only market
and aren't vertically integrated,
it's really hard to grow a two pound variety instead of a three pound variety
or whatever the difference is.
And just like fruits and vegetables,
the big old monster tomatoes typically are the ones that taste like water.
Yeah, for sure.
I mean, that's like one of Caleb and I's running jokes, dude,
is that the shitty little thing in the corner that you thought about killing
ends up being the clear winner in the smoke test.
Always.
And you're like, why is that retarded runt over there?
Like, why is that one head and shoulders above all these beautiful producing
structure, amazing dense buds all over it?
And this stressed out little thing here that almost died.
That's the one that everybody wants to smoke.
I think it's a,
I think the smoke ability of a strain is a combination of two things,
in my opinion.
It's the type of and how much resin there is on the plant material.
And then there is how the plant material smokes itself.
And those are two completely different things.
Yeah.
That's why people like hash is because you get rid of all the plant material.
So now the shit that like has good turps or good trichomes on it,
but shitty plant material, you can smoke it.
Now, strawberry banana.
It's like, man, the flower is completely nothing to write home about,
but yeah, make some fresh frozen hash with it.
It's great.
It's awesome.
Yeah.
Banana smoothie.
So there, you know, there's a purpose for that.
But when you start talking about like mass versus trichomes,
if you increase the mass, but there's only the same amount of trichomes,
it's inevitably probably going to continue to taste worse.
So whatever has the least amount of mass that smokes poorly of flower
material with the highest concentration of resin, good, tasty resin,
it's probably going to be your best week.
So to me, it's just a trichome concentration versus plant mass.
That's interesting.
Yeah.
I look at it a little differently because I talk about burnability all the
time. Right.
Cause that's really important to me, but I think that there's like a,
there's like an air to bud ratio, you know, like, I mean,
obviously some things you put them on the, you know,
you put them on and, and the thing is huge,
but it weighs three grams. Other thing you put it on and it's the same,
it's the same size and it weighs eight, you know?
So I think like how dense things are,
like one of the things I like about diesels is it kind of has all those
like nooks and crannies and hills and crevices and different things,
the way the bud forms. So it's like, it's not that dense. Right.
And then I think that makes it,
that's what I was saying is the amount of trichomes versus the mass of the
plant material, the plant material. Yeah.
And it seems like that stuff washes better because there's more surface area
where like the super thick stuff,
you almost have to chop it up into little bits to get it to wash well,
cause there's only so much exposed. Exactly.
How much you get on X amount of mass of flower
and things like Bubba, right? It's like, you know, you could,
Bubba doesn't have a lot of surface area to put trichomes because it's so
dense with plant material. Yeah.
And why does it test low and why does one little nug like this turn into like a
joint that's fucking that fat?
That's why, because it has a lot of plant material mass. Yeah.
I mean, there was, there was an aspect too, where I used to have this,
I used to have this judge of whether I thought things were like perfect density
to me. Like when I was breeding stuff,
a bunch was could I break it off in the dark and put it into a pipe?
And smoke it effectively. And if,
and if you can't do that without like the snow used to be like that,
like you almost needed scissors or a grinder, you know,
if you just broke off a big chunk and shoved it into a bowl or a bong or
something like that, it would barely burn. Yeah. It's too dense.
Prohibition selection standards.
You know, and you know, cookies, cookies, cookies can be like that too.
It can be too dense. Yeah, for sure. You know,
it breeds a certain density.
What have you been focusing on and on your projects lately? Like,
is there anything you're stoked about anything you're working with lately that
you're like, fuck, this is so unique and so different that I, you know,
I'm going to work on this for a few years.
Anything like that currently going on? I mean, man,
I'm just always just selecting through plants. I mean,
I just popped like another 500 seeds the other day.
For me, it's, I just want to find new shit all the time. I mean,
shit half the time, all like,
I just went to California and went to all these big grows and everything and
met up with everybody.
Except me.
Well, everybody, everybody was on schedule, but
the like,
the one that I wasn't really particularly impressed with was the one that all
the biggest growers all said, Hey, can I get a clone? What's up with that one?
I want to, I need to, I need to make this one a strain or whatever. Right.
And it's like, well, I didn't even think that was that out of all the stuff I
brought, that's not my personal favorite, you know? So for me, it's like,
I never really know what's fucking,
I just try to grow really good weeds and shit that I think is unique and
tastes really good and has that the right ratios,
everything we were just talking about. And man, everybody,
I let everybody else decide what's really unique to them.
Because if you told me, you know,
10 years that papaya would be unique to people,
I'd tell you you're fucking crazy. Right.
That's the most run of the mill shit on the fucking planet at that time.
Right. But so only 10 years later, you know,
Dutch skunk number one fruit turps is unique because everyone grows only
gelato. So, yeah, yeah.
If you would have told me skunk one would have had a comeback,
I would never in a million years have believed that. Exactly.
I mean, there was, there, there was a time, you know,
in Mendo where you couldn't give a Cali O pound away.
Yeah. And then, you know,
and then the nails got invented and people started dabbing and,
and he became popular, but, you know,
I couldn't believe Tandy when it, when it hit, I was like, what, what,
are we redoing Cali O again? What the fuck's going on here? Right. But,
but we forget that, you know,
the majority of the smoking population is 18 to 28 years old.
So after most people turn 28, they get kids, family, they smoke less,
they're not involved and that shit,
whatever was old to the people that just quit smoking is brand new to the next
generation. Yeah. I mean, we, we, we had a,
we had a like a 15 year downturn for perps and then it came back with a
vengeance. Yeah, totally. With a Venge, you know, there,
there was an era a long time ago when,
when everything purple went like crazy and then that wasn't the case for a
decade and a half or something.
And then it came back and all of a sudden, you know,
you hear that like very 2005 statement, you know, like,
I don't know if this is purple enough. Could this be darker?
You see people extending the periods for these strains now by like adding two
novel things together.
So you got like Tropicana cookies and it's like just Tangy,
but it's purple like the Blackberry. Right. And it's like that.
And then people are like excited about it again, you know,
Mendo perp, same thing, you know,
it's like people get tired of it when it's just the Mendo perp, but you know,
call it forbidden fruit. Now it's the hot shit.
And now it's, yeah. I mean, I, it, it's crazy.
What's crazy about the forbidden fruit is that when citrus is strong,
it's like one of the most dumb, it can be,
it can breed one of the most dominant turps at times. Yeah, for sure.
You know, and then, and then it's,
and it's often a one or two note Turk where it's like,
you don't get other sense. It's like when it's citrus, it's just like pop.
It's citrus. Yeah.
And that forbidden fruit is really weird because it smells just like,
it's like a one note purple. It's a pretty plant, you know,
super pretty and like, and all that. And, you know, but yeah, it's, it just,
it smells like if you like orange citrus and that's it.
I think here's a, an important thing to,
I think what we're talking about is really a product of the,
how easily information is spread nowadays,
because like you were talking about before,
how plant diseases were isolated to small groups of people.
If, if at all, because people didn't really share plants.
The same thing was true with the selling part of weed 20 years ago as well is I
don't know what the fuck people were smoking in Georgia or Tennessee, right?
I just know what I can buy around me. That's it. And so I didn't have this,
this preconception that I can get some purple weed that smells like orange.
There was not choices like that.
So everybody just basically created their own standards of quality and
preference. And those were localized to even just small groups of people.
Right. And I think that's why we had so many unique strains that,
that were able to survive prohibition is because the whole market wasn't
gelato or whatever, because no one had a big enough row to,
to do that. No one knew about a strain enough to do all that shit.
So, you know, every,
so like strains like HP 13 survived because that was the best weed that a
whole group of people in the country could get.
And they demanded that product. So that clone survived and that, you know,
that was one of the benefits of prohibition is that it actually did help keep
some of the diversity alive because you have these independent markets that
weren't affected from external, external input.
And now we have the opposite where everyone is so influenced by external input
that almost no one keeps anything unique around anymore at all.
And the customer doesn't even know that they want it because it's not even
available in the marketplace.
Oh, I mean,
that's something I trip on all the time is because like California,
like in some degree, like, or where I live might be considered kind of like a,
you know, the forefront of certain things, good and bad.
And one of the bad things was like the,
the whole like named clone craze that took off where, you know,
first it was purples and it was cushions and sours and, you know,
but what that meant is that people kept dropping stuff.
And we talked earlier in the show about how that G13 cut probably survived in
Ohio because like you,
you grow weed in these areas where it's good enough weed that it always sells
and there's not pressure to change.
So they keep these favorites wherever they are.
And Ohio, Ohio is, are they even legal yet?
Or no, no, exactly.
But I just meant like anywhere, anywhere that doesn't fake like California
pressure. I mean, I'll tell you.
So to me,
the first real craze was the purple craze in Mendo before that people just grew
good weed and it all sold. Right.
And then when the purple craze hit and it became about the Mendo P or the
Urkel or the GDP, or, you know,
there's half a dozen different purple strains,
there would be people that would come up from the Bay and they will like,
I will buy every gram of this weed that I can find. Yeah.
And so that created this pressure where all these different growers were like,
well, why do I want to grow this other shit?
I'm just going to turn this 40 lights or whatever into Urkel and boom it out
because these people are going to cash me out even for my odd pound.
Of course. Yeah.
And so with every time that happens, diversity gets fucked. Yeah.
And then you fast forward, right? Fast forward 15 years from then.
And when the purple craze hit,
everybody starts hitting up like the six people that kept purple,
you know, like everyone I knew had an Urkel or grape ape or,
or a GDP or a Mendo P cut. Oh yeah. You know,
there was an era after that where like every single farmer I knew indoor and
outdoor ran some sour diesel.
But if it's not, if it's not what the easiest thing to,
to sell, then they drop it.
You guys feel like we're in that stage right now currently with anything?
You know, a bunch of shit's getting dropped. Yeah.
I mean, I'll tell you something crazy, dude.
I had a buddy from, from Soham hit me up and say that a bunch of brokers were
starting to talk about wanting sour diesel this year and they couldn't,
they couldn't find clones of sour diesel in Soham.
Weird. That is weird.
Because it'd been three, four years.
And everybody's been growing gelatos and weird hybrids of gelato and these
weird purple crosses and jealousy. And you know,
and that was the only thing that people wanted to pay for.
Yeah. It makes sense. You wouldn't think sour would get pushed out,
but it doesn't take that long.
All it takes is a few seasons or one season of your broker telling you,
I don't want it.
And you're going to find something though. They, they do want, you know,
or they're going to be like, Oh,
I'm going to be like, Oh, I'm going to be like, Oh,
I'm going to be like, Oh, I'm going to be like, Oh,
they do want, you know, or they tell you, Oh, I'll buy that, but it's,
it's going to be this. But if you had this, I'd pay you this much more.
Yeah. They're going to go that route.
Yep. Definitely doesn't have the cookies appeal.
This isn't, you know, it's like, but everyone had sour.
It's a globalization of the marketplace.
It really, it's a nationalization,
but California supplying is globally at this point now.
So, it's just like, you know, kind of when you travel the world nowadays, right?
It's like it's a lot.
It's not nearly as culturally diverse, especially in the touristy areas than it was 20 years
ago or particularly 40 years ago.
Not that I ever experienced that, but it's just where we have this information is disseminated
so quickly nowadays that we're losing a lot of diversity on the planet for a lot of reasons.
And with cannabis, particularly because it was prohibited by the governments, we have
probably the very last agricultural crop that had its own free independent economy and distribution
system for a multi-billion dollar plant per year in value with absolutely zero government
intervention and policies that would dictate how and why people would operate their business.
And now we've moved to the whole opposite with that with globalization and nationalization.
With one exception to that, they didn't have any control over how we set it up, except
for things they did would make us adapt to not encounter them.
So all the shipping methods, all the various aspects of the business was to work around
government intervention of any kind.
So they didn't really dictate to us, but they did influence how we responded in a way.
But because of that, we had a much more diverse scene because everybody figured out a different
way to manipulate the system to their advantage, so to speak.
Right.
It really was Adam Smith and the invisible hand.
Sure.
Are you guys familiar with that?
No.
So Adam Smith, when he wrote about capitalism and all that, it's like a super famous thing
that he did, but he wrote about basically like real capitalism is like there's an invisible
hand that takes the goods from where they are and pulls them to where they're wanted
to be bought.
Like there's a system that will get set up if there's a demand in some place and there's
margin and profit to be made, a system will be set up by people to get that profit and
to bring the goods to where the people want to be.
Yeah, I've seen something.
And that's essentially what happened with weed.
That's how weed got spread all over America when it was totally illegal, was the invisible
hand divvied it up.
Exactly.
Okay.
You know, and then the invisible hand is just no government, no government making any rules.
I mean, it's interesting that like in California, especially they made a whole bunch of rules
and they crashed the very successful system within five years.
That's exactly what we're getting at is that like if you let the government get involved
in anything, they will ruin it.
Right.
That's the general rule of thumb.
Name one war that we've waged in the last 50 years in this country where we won it,
whether it was a foreign war or a domestic war.
The war on drugs.
Shit, drugs are more available and more plentiful.
Yeah, for sure.
We don't win any wars.
War on homelessness.
We don't win anything.
I'm not sure if they're meant to be won.
I really don't know.
Yeah, there's no profit in solutions.
Yeah, exactly.
That's what I mean.
It's fucked up.
But there's no profit in collapsing an agricultural commodity that you're the one taxing.
Like the funny part is the government is so bad at their job that they're the only ones
that make money without having to spend any in this real business.
You know, right.
I mean, other than other than just enforcing the rules that they that get written.
But they're taking in what a third of the income and the whole state or more in most
of these cases.
And and the the biggest loser is them by collapsing the system around themselves.
Because if the if the price of weed goes to basically non-profitable and I mean, look,
I've talked about this for a long ass time.
Without subsidies and or farmers unions.
Farming in America doesn't exist.
You've been doom and gloom forever about it.
I agree.
Yes.
Yeah.
We're here now.
Really?
He's been talking about subsidies and collapsing markets and what happens with industrialization
and all that for quite some time.
But here's the biggest benefit, right?
Is because there's no union and no subsidies to get this to survive that the consumption
of weed is going to continue.
So a lot of people are just there's nothing to save these big corporations and these big
investment firms.
Yeah, they in business.
There's nothing to save them.
Right.
And in it, in the right scenario, depending on how much it ends up costing a lot of these
big businesses to operate and how the consumers perception and demands may change, small farms
might be the ones that come out winning because there isn't that as we're seeing now in California
and as the as every state gets its own supply set up and there's not this distribution network,
this demand from all over the world for export product.
Yeah.
We're growing way more weed than people need to smoke.
So all it takes is the consumer demanding a little bit higher quality product and the
consumption amount or the amount of players being too many for the amount of consumption
that's occurring.
And the only things that may be profitable is small businesses.
You know, you guys, did you guys not to interrupt, did you guys see that thing in Canada where
they destroyed like hundreds of tons of unused weed?
They burned it because of overproduction.
Yeah.
And they couldn't pump it through the system and it aged out and turned brown.
And, you know, they had all these huge greenhouses and they did this big power play.
There's an aspect.
It's interesting that you say that, dude, because there is definitely a bunch of people
that are trying to get into the industry by just having a better burn rate than small
farmers.
What they're hoping to do is bleed everybody out, be able to survive longer because they
have more capital and then take over the bones and they end up with a bunch of market share.
But what Homi is saying is that they could actually bleed out beyond where they're willing
to bleed.
And if the price spike doesn't happen after that, to like be able to recover their lost
because what they're trying to do is they're willing to lose money now, but they're planning
on making more later.
The plan is not to just light a huge pile of money on fire and watch it burn.
No, exactly.
Exactly.
But their problem is that now that people are growing weed more easily everywhere, right?
And more quantity of it.
Like I mean, Oklahoma has intercepted pick six, the whole game from California in a lot
of ways.
Oh, yeah.
And that's going to continue to happen with every new state that comes online.
It becomes easy to grow more herb.
So like, you know, companies like Trulieve in Florida.
Well, you've got companies like Jungle Boys and everybody else that can come in and take
their lunch from them from a from a business operations standpoint and quality perspective.
And then you've got the little small grower chipping away at you, too.
So I mean, like the market may not sustain their billion dollar aspirations that you
may not be able to be that big.
And we're seeing that in Washington already.
The biggest growers in Washington are shutting down 2000 light operations.
They're selling 200 dollar package pounds.
Wreck.
Right.
And so 1000 light grows that bring in buyers from out of state, buy it from the from the
licensed place that they deposit cash in the state knows about it.
And it's like the supply.
There's so many operations to supply the demand now that I don't think there is like a rosy
outcome for them down the road.
So they might just be lighting, lighting tens of millions of dollars on fire.
Well, if they can't find more money to keep sustaining their money losing operations,
it's they're done for anyways.
I mean, you know, canopy grow shut down there.
What did they spend?
Two hundred and thirty million dollars on a greenhouse in Medicine Hat.
They sold it for thirty five million recently just to keep the lights on.
I mean, like Jesus, you know, you can't run a business like that.
I mean, now Flo Kona up by me, they raised one hundred and seventy five million bucks
and they they pretty much blew it.
Right.
And so where's that round going to come from when the economics looks the way it does now?
And you know, and there's another aspect of it, too.
And you know, we were chatting about this.
I can't remember it was last week or the week before.
But like it is this weird thing, because since cannabis is legal in some spots and illegal
in others.
Right.
And the and the and the line between the two is super murky.
There's all this there's all this stuff happening, you know, where most of the companies in California
surviving by backdooring.
Absolutely.
You know, that's how they're surviving.
And then and then on top of that, like up in, you know, when the hemp when the hemp
implosion happened in 2018, up in his neck of the woods in southern Oregon and all those
areas, those places started growing at a level never before seen.
And there's all these there's all these criminal groups and cartels that started doing things
on a scale that had never been seen before and daring the authorities to come catch them.
Right.
And so there's massive amounts of weed that are being grown.
I've read in places that that, you know, Mexican Mexican import is down 75 percent from from
the good days for them.
Right.
And and they are going into all kinds of different businesses to make up that lost revenue.
Right.
And they're going to Oklahoma and they're going to Oregon and they're going to the desert
in California and they're setting up these huge depths and shops trying to make money.
So it's like a total free for all in that sense.
You know, it's like the level of overproduction is insane.
Well, yeah, everybody thinks that like it's going to get better and it's like, look, for
just every person that's quitting right now, there's another person doubling up their garden.
Right.
Yeah.
There's another glass house putting up another five million square feet.
This isn't going to get that much better.
You have to identify your own market and then supply that market.
Whatever it is that you do, whether it's edibles, vape pens, these turt carts, rosin, pick your
pick your thing.
Maybe it's all of them.
It doesn't really matter.
But the market can only sustain so much of that.
Right.
Before you start basically eating into your own profits with your overproduction.
So like I said, as more people become operational, more good operators come in, more good black
market operators continue to produce in more states.
Maybe it fizzles out for them.
You know, who knows?
Maybe it just can't sustain the size of business that they want.
Like these people spent three hundred million dollars building this big grow because they
were planning on doing a billion dollars a year in sales.
But they only got to one hundred fifty million a year in sales.
They're not really.
Right.
So I think that's going to be the reality for a lot of these big businesses.
And then if you get these really big overproduction situations like you have right now, you're
going to see people shutting lights off.
But the thing is, is like as soon as the like, all right, let's say you have a two thousand
light operation and you're going to shut it down for the time being because you have two
of these.
Let's say you shut one down and you're like, well, we'll just wait till the price goes
back up.
Well, what happens when the price goes back up?
You flip the lights back on, fill it with plants.
And a year later, the price is back where it was again.
Yeah.
This is, you know, ag economics.
You know, this is just how it goes.
So the real question is how much covid cash did we spend on grows that don't need to exist?
And if that's really big, which I think it is, this overproduction will continue for
quite some time, I would think.
I mean, really, it's it's two giants with a bunch of good weed growers getting smashed
in the middle, in my opinion, because it's like all the like the two giants are like
the all the huge black market things that have set up by the various groups.
And then the other giant is all the backdoor legal weed that happens.
And the reason why legal is so pissed at the black market is because for the first two,
three years, they were dumping all their excess product in the black easy.
And that was their cash flow.
And now now they're getting cut off by these ginormous scenes and they're pissed off about
it and it's taking their price and it's making their life harder.
But, you know, so they want they want all the black to be shut down, but they only want
the black to be shut down so they could resupply the black.
They just lost market share.
You know, exactly.
They don't care about the white or black sales.
They just want market share.
They just need market share wherever they're going to get it from.
Well, they define what's white and what's black.
So I mean, they're the ones hiring the lobbyists and are going to be hiring the lobbyists.
So they don't mind what's white and black anyways.
You know, I worked on some on some big farms down in Southern California for a couple of years.
And one of the things that the sales guy did that was pretty trippy is he went and he looked
at a bunch of the data for all of the dispensaries.
And he was pretty much like, you know, this farm that we have down here, it could probably
supply like 80 or 90 percent of the volume needed.
And he was like kind of from the real world, so he was kind of tripping out by this number
because he didn't know all the various nuances that we know, you know, but he was just looking
at it and he was thinking about all the other bigger farms than us and all the indoors and
all the depths and all the everything else.
And he was like, well, how is this working?
The only way that the white market can survive is if like 80 percent of them fail.
If you're if they actually have to sell within the state of California only and no backdoor.
Exactly. Yeah.
And then the goal would be instead of like two or three huge companies that suck, that
that percentage would be a bunch of bomb small growers that could actually give consumers
what they want. Well, that's what I'm getting at, is that it actually shrinks back to the
size that it's that's actually sustainable for the state of California, not including
the export market. Most of these big grows are too big for that.
Like they're they just can't get enough revenue to sustain the business model.
So they have two choices.
They either just shut off a bunch of operations and keep their 200 million a year or
whatever it is they could get or in.
And they just hope they can hold on to that from little guys that keep chopping at their
at their bottom line or at the top line.
So, you know, this may go back the other direction and people don't realize that.
And I think if people focus on quality, expanding their market instead of chopping off
your fellow farmers market, the the black market operators or backdoor operators or
whoever you are, you're going to continue to see growth in your space regardless.
That'd be my that's my opinion.
I could even say 20 years ago, the people that I knew that were running 50 and 100
lighters that were really good at their job, they still bought their head stash from four
to 10 to 12 lighters because those that there's just something about like a smaller space
that only that you know, like you can you can there's like nobody agrees where craft
ends. Right.
Nobody nobody agrees when it's like it's just a little too big to be called craft, but I
can but everybody agrees that the bigger it gets, the harder it becomes to manage perfect
weed. You know, a guy that like works on his four lighter after work and is in love
with it and spends a couple hours in there every night making it just exactly perfect.
He probably has fire.
Well, I think as these as this profit margin continues to shrink and then you got these
big monster grows, I think you're going to continue to find it's going to be continued.
To be difficult for these big businesses to find employees that want to do that shit,
too. Right.
I mean, where are you getting skilled workers from in this marketplace?
And my my buddy, dude, he jokes that like it's like a fucking factory job.
It is. And you're in there and the lights are on and the fans are running and the decibels
are loud. And you honestly should have like protective glasses and some and some, you
know, and some earmuffs and some this team.
It's it's actually pretty fun because now you don't have to man it.
You don't have to be the guy like growing weed for yourself is being that guy that's
playing the the he's got the whole contraption on that playing like six fucking.
Yeah. Yeah. Like that.
But the run in operating the whole business is that.
And for some people, that's the right way to do it.
And if you want to control your product and your market and your marketplace, that's how
you do it. But these big monster grows, especially when the ownership has no soul or
passion for the plant and doesn't want to fund any kind of fun shit for their employees to
do in it. Yeah.
I don't think you're going to find a lot of people that want to continue to do that job
long term. Yeah.
I mean, there's there's an aspect to where and I want to say it before I forget.
But when he was talking about quality, the other thing that I would say that is actually
going to lead to like the next generation of like real elites is if people want to breed
stop breeding for the market because that's going to change soon anyway.
Start breeding weed that you personally think is fire.
Exactly. Try to find weed that you and your friends love to smoke and you love the buzz
and you love things about it.
Grow better weed for yourself.
The chances of that weed becoming popular is way better than you trying to create
something that you think will be popular.
Grow weed you like.
Breed weed you like.
My only business card and everybody that knows me is a box of jars.
That's what I show up with.
Yeah, not gonna hit but a box of jars.
Right. And then you can because I can tell you pretty much everything about a grower
from a box of jars.
Yeah, you could. You should be able to.
You know, and there's an aspect to where it's it's I mean, we haven't even talked about
like if it went federally legal, like the international market and how that would play.
And to all this different stuff, you know, because in each new in each new state that
goes legal, there's a bunch of investment money hoping to like dominate and make a bunch
of money back. And it's kind of been swinging around the country right now.
It's in New York and New Jersey because those are huge places that are coming online and
all these people are super excited about trying to do that.
You know, Washington, where he he's up, you know, Washington and Oregon were ahead of
California. And we didn't really learn any lessons.
No, we just we just would shit the bed right away or just like, oh, let's just make a bunch
of terrible rules right away.
Destined for failure.
But I mean, that's that may only make sense for California with how we do stuff.
So, yeah, I mean, it's hard.
I will say in all honesty, it's hard because like he said, this is it's agricultural,
which has its own weird shit to it.
Right. And it's a multi, multi, multi billion dollar industry already.
Yeah. So it's not like they get to create the industry from the ground up and like
tinker with it. They're trying to bring this huge thing.
Into the light. And they have no idea how to do it.
What other thing have they ever done that with?
Yeah, that's a good point.
What have they ever done?
You know, that's why that's why some of this money is so excited.
They're like, what do you mean there's eight million pot smokers in my state already?
Yeah, that's a huge customer base.
Most things you make that are brand new, you have to build popularity.
Oh, yeah. Weed is super fucking popular.
Like it's already popular.
So and no one controls it.
So it's all tempting for the money to be like, I want to control that.
For sure. You know, and I agree.
Yeah, I think Colorado probably was falling out for Cali.
Yeah, Oregon, too. I mean, I was just like, I've been going through having to delete all my old
photos to keep my shit from getting my account deleted and everything.
Yeah. And like, man, I was I was like seeing memes I was making in like 2017, 18 when
everybody was talking about the sky is falling and shit in Oregon.
I mean, this is just reality for an agricultural crop.
And if you're not prepared for it and for being flexible with how you're going to operate
your business, it's not going to be it's not going to be a good time.
You know? Yeah.
One thing I will say, too, and I never really thought that I would see this, but there's an
aspect where like maybe for the first time, like being an actual weed nerd who really loves
it is an advantage because then at least you get to love what you're doing, where a lot of
people got into this because it was easy or because it was money or because there was a big
margin or because, you know, it allowed them travel freedom or whatever.
And as as it gets harder and harder, they don't actually like doing what they're doing.
So they get a lot more frustrated as the market changes.
Yeah, this is just another job.
You know, it's yeah, it's just an you know, and they used to make a lot more for a lot less
effort. And now they're making a lot less for a lot more effort.
You know where and there's a there's an aspect that I see in Mendo all the time.
You probably see it up there, too, in Oregon, you know, where it's like a bunch of people that
didn't really care about weed but learned enough to make money and run some big shit and make
good money for 20 years.
Now that it's going legal, they think they have this like lifetime of knowledge about weed, but
they really farmed most of it out and they were in it for loot.
And so they're really not that talented at what they do.
They really don't have the same knowledge base as like people that were nerdy about weed and
kept wanting to learn about what they were into.
Yeah, of course. So there's an aspect out there where, you know, like being being like into
weed helps because it's going to get rough.
Yeah. It's going to get rough.
The combo did go sideways, but sometimes that's what's cool about it.
I mean, we could have talked about hash plants for the last hour, I suppose, in sequential
order. You know, I mean, man, who fucking cares?
Yeah, I enjoyed it.
Fucking joints here. What the fuck do you guys want?
Yeah, I mean, to bring it back to hash plants or whatever, probably in the probably in the
last five or six years, as people started measuring returns on on on plants, people
started making hash seriously for the first time in America on a commercial scale.
And trying to figure out what cultivars and actually breeding for hash, which really
wasn't done in the 80s, 90s, 2000s, right?
Nobody really people were breeding for flour.
Yeah, for the most part, you know, people weren't breeding for hash.
I can't imagine.
Well, especially frozen hash, which is, you know, arguably some of the tastiest hash for
sure. Yeah, they didn't have the gear.
I mean, Americans like it easy.
We don't have like a village that we can just be like, all right, for the next 12 hours,
all you families, you're you're like bashing weed over a screen with no with no mask.
You know, you watch some of those you watch you watch some of those some of those videos
of what those guys do. And I don't know how they don't have an allergy attack like every
day of their life. Because they're just in a fucking huddle.
Yeah. How many people they be all shit?
But that guy eat allergies, moved out and did something different.
Yeah, they had to leave.
They had to leave. These are desensitized people because it's just a dust cloud you're
working in all day long.
Exactly. If you can't deal with this, you're not living in Morocco.
But the same thing is true, too, where it's like there's a big push where like a lot of
the popular hash strains, they probably get popular because they yield great, not because
they're the best higher flavor.
Yeah, there's always that pressure to there's the money versus quality pressure.
I mean, number one was one of the best hash plants for me ever.
Right. Skunk number one and it's hybrids from Amsterdam.
Why? Because Sam bred the shit for making hash.
Right. The resin farmer.
Yeah. Like he made the money that he made by breeding a plant for 97 percent THC in
the trichome head and then selling that as technology to GW Pharmaceuticals like that.
That's his that's his claim to fame right there.
And he's like the only one that's done that even.
And he did that shit back in the 90s.
I mean, you know that it's an impressive feat regardless.
Yeah. It's something every breeder should be.
But made a lot of, you know, the netter hash and everything else that became popular now
is the water hash market.
I mean, we were talking we were talking to a camera a while ago and he was talking about
how he's never even seen Sam smoke flour.
That he you know, he breeds he's a resin.
That's what he called him. He's a resin farmer.
Yeah, I don't like he does.
He likes to breed for resin.
That's what he's after. That's what he's interested in.
That's what he cares about.
You know, that's pretty dope.
Bubble Man doesn't smoke flour either.
It's kind of the same mentality.
Not that he's a rock, but you know.
I consider sour diesel and the diesel family to basically be like America's modern skunk.
Yeah. You know, that very skunkoid, you know, type, type, you know, plant type aromas, all
that. It's a little different.
It's definitely not skunk one, but it's definitely like it's in that family.
Yeah. It's modern skunk.
I mean, even just chem family stuff in general is I would almost say is pretty similar.
You know, yeah.
Big, tall running colas on a lot of hybrids, a little bit longer flowering, hybrid plant
and, you know, synonymous with, you know, good quality and commercial production.
Yeah. Only women enslaved smoke flour.
That's my favorite quote ever.
It is. It's really funny quote.
It's a really funny one.
That was one of the dudes that told a funny story, I guess.
When Sam Skunkman was in Afghanistan looking for seeds, he asked some of the Mujahideen
for flour because he wanted the seeds.
And the guy looked at him and was like, only women enslaved smoke flour.
Men smoke hash.
And he was basically like, are you a woman or a slave?
And he had to explain that he wanted the seeds from the flour.
He had no interest in the flour to smoke whatsoever, but he wanted to make his own hash at
home. And he wanted the seeds.
And that made sense to the dude.
But he was literally like women enslaved smoke flour.
Men smoke hashish.
So he handed him a pair of chains.
I mean, culturally, they're very different, you know, for sure.
It is very different.
Well, it's an unprocessed product, you know.
And shit, I mean, if I was if you just if you just grow a field of seed plants and randomly pick a
flower to smoke.
It's probably not the greatest experience.
No, no, especially if the flour wasn't ever bred for smoke.
Exactly. Like one of the one of the things about Sativa is at least the you know, they were
breeding for the flour itself to be smoked.
I mean, one thing I find interesting that everybody you always see that comment, it's kind of a
a misconception in cannabis breeding is that, oh, just go back to land race and it'll fix whatever
problem someone's talking about.
Like all these hermy nowadays because of this and this and that you should just go back to the land
race. Yeah. It makes something new.
And it's like if you've ever grown lots of land race varieties, Sativa, Indica, everything in
between. I've grown tons of seeds from all over the world and guaranteed the vast majority of
them have equal or higher amounts of hermaphroditism like, you know, plants when you grow
them from seed and the flower seedless, but it has those little tiny black like those and you like
roll a joint up and it's like all these little black specks on the table.
Right. I've looked at them under a microscope.
I mean, it literally it sounds like you have spider mites in your in your flower, but it's
I mean, they're they're tiny.
Those are really common.
Do you know the Rostas pick those out?
Tiny trichome or tiny trichome heads and tiny calyxes, I mean, or bracts.
Yeah, it's like the majority of what's in the populations is those type of plants.
Now, the residue can be really nice.
A lot of them, it smells good, is really greasy, is potent when you smoke it.
But the flower itself is just not desirable, has lots of growth problems as well.
Yeah. Land race is like whipping yourself.
Oh, definitely.
Setting. It's definitely a lot of pain.
It's pain. It's turning back the clock.
And and then you if you if you think that that's the way to fix a population or something
like that, it's basically you assuming that, hey, I'm going to turn back the clock 50
years and I'm going to do this myself from scratch and do a better job than all the
people that have done it between me and now.
And it's like, dude, we're just lucky that there was a decent population of plants for
all of us to start with in the first place, you know.
And it's like the goal is to at least make hybrids and select for plants that will
continue to increase that quality so that the next person that does that, that that
again will continue to improve the population better than you did.
And that's that's inadvertently how we've gotten to where we are with all the all the
feminized pollinate, accidental feminized pollination that gives us our main breeding
population of today is because it was always the best plants crossed with the best plants
because no one kept anything else for the most part.
Yeah, we've gotten this question a few times, so I'll ask it, what's up with your
Malawi? What's the sourcing on that?
That came from the glass scene up here in Washington, but by way of Oregon.
Very cool. I don't know anything about who popped the seeds.
I mean, or how it got here or anything.
Super, super like land race.
It's like how obsoletes used it.
Right. I think Caleb had it at one point.
I think Shot 707 seed bank had it for sure and ran it from back in the day.
I mean, it was it was one of those plants that had a really strong, like hazy
aroma when you smoke the flower.
Interesting. Somebody said more like Eugene Gold.
What's that? I don't know when they were talking about Malawi, maybe that was another
name someone called it.
Mm hmm. Well, we talked earlier about like the weird Instagram stuff and everything
that's been going on.
One thing we're trying to put together that we can talk about tonight real quick before
we're done is that we're trying to put together the Breeders Syndicate social.
And I know like I think you saw Flandell's social thing he was trying to put together.
We're going to use that similar type platform so we can have a nerd IG for us.
So we'll figure it out.
But I wanted to at least get that out there today so people have an idea to look for it.
For sure. Yeah.
Anything you're dropping soon, Fletch?
Oh, maybe I don't know, but I'm not going to plug shit on here.
We're just talking weed.
That's cool as fuck, dude.
Yeah. Not so.
No, I mean, I obviously had a pretty wide ranging conversation.
Sometimes it's good. We I had a Malawi.
I don't know if it's the same one.
How long did yours take forever to finish?
It was like 90, 80, 90 days probably.
Yeah, I had this one and I never could get it to I needed to like debit starting in June, you know.
And and I never did that.
And I grew it inside a few times and it took twice as long as everything else.
That's the hard part about having sativas is you kind of need their own unique space for their life cycle.
Yeah. Yeah.
You know, I can do because otherwise you can't like clean and reset and read it.
You know, you've just got this like, OK, now I have three plants that are fucking forever in a day from being done.
You know? Yeah. Yeah.
Cool. All right. Yeah.
Check out readers to get me on.
Go to Google, type it in.
Come hang out with us on Discord.
We shoot the shit all the time.
And thanks a lot for coming and hanging out.
It's always a pleasure. It was super cool.
Everybody enjoy your Friday night.
Later, guys. Cheers.
