Welcome to Breeder's Syndicate, where we explore the history of a clandestine
scene through the eyes of the folks who lived it. I'm Matthew, owner of Riot Seeds.
I'll occasionally be joined by my co-host NotSoDawg, breeder and grower
from Mendocino. Welcome to the underground.
How's your Friday night so far? It's alright. Was there a wide variety of
color schemes to pick from from your earmuffs? No, no. No? It was just periwinkle
and yellow was your only option? This is it. This is what we get. I mean, when I guess it's
extra extra small, they have limited colors. I know. We need to get you one so
that when you do your audio, it won't bleed in and it'll be easier to... Yeah. You
know when they say one-sized fits most? Yes. They throw in that disclaimer for my
head. Yeah, yeah. I bet. They do. They do. You can watch like a ball cap just like
creep up. Let me see if I can get some lighting going on in this piece. Oh,
that's a little better maybe. Yeah, there you go. There we go. I can see your shiny
glow from being pregnant. Indeed. Yep. All the estrogen I'm taking. Yep. That, yeah.
That helps. Yeah, it does. It helps the transition. All right. So tonight, we were
gonna get started talking about probenance and its place in cannabis, in
the history, why it's important now, and even more so now than ever. So if you
want to get started, I don't know if you remember where we kind of talked about
starting off, but kick it off. Yeah. So I mean, there's kind of like, probably what
we'll end up doing is talking some like historical examples of it from the
beginning to like now, because there's a lot of it that's relevant right now
actually. Yeah. And then just kind of like what we need as far as ethics and stuff
like that. Yeah. So the paycheck, you know, like both the hair and the beard are
completely unchanged from last week. I did zero time in the chair before I
started. So no one can see me get progressively shaggier, more aged as time
goes on. Yeah, that's for sure. You know, so there you go. There we go. Um, you know, so
you know, there's an aspect now where like, I guess it's, it's sort of like, why
do you care? Yeah. I get that a lot. People care. People care for different
reasons. Right? You know, the smallest minority of us, which I'd say Matt and
myself and CSI and some others are in, is the one that care because it's the truth.
And because we're like, we history nerds, and we want to actually know the story of
how it came to be. Yeah. Right. But there's a lot of people that only care
relative to how it helps them. Yes. Right. And in some cases, you know, you know,
when you interview some of the original people that have like the stuff you're so
desperately after, they have that view too. Yeah, they they know it, but they kind of
only care about it in a way that it helps them. Or how can it help me now? Yeah.
Right. And so a lot of times what happens is like, you know, you start to talk to
some of these people and like, memories are kind of hazy. And then as they get an
idea about what could happen with it, well, then they get more specific. Yeah.
You know, and most of it is oral and most and some of it is argued, a lot of it is
argued over. So it becomes really hard because it's there's not a lot of proof.
Yeah. Right. So we've chatted about this on previous casts. But, you know, when we
were talking about like the Ron parties and stuff like that 20 years ago, where I
met Caleb and Fletch and a bunch of different people. Yeah, I was hunting for
old things then. Yeah. And it was hard. In the last five or six years, all of a
sudden, there's been a huge push towards like, well, what was those 80s and 90s
genetics like? Yeah. And all of a sudden, they're everywhere. Right? All of them.
They're absolutely everywhere. Right. So you have this situation where, you know,
it doesn't take much. All it takes is one scammer to have, you know, 74 Columbian or
whatever. Yeah. And it's not actually that and it gets passed through some good
hands and it's almost like Bitcoin washing or something. It gets like it gets its
reputation gets verified through others. Yes. And so there's a lot of aspects of
that, of how that works. You know, so it's kind of a conversation that like could go
any number of different ways. Yeah. But maybe I'll start in the beginning, which is
I remember reading stuff that Sam Skunkman wrote about how pissed off him and Rob
Clark were in the early 80s that like 5% of growers gave a shit about genetics. Yeah.
5% would be massive now. You know, and so there's an aspect where it's like same as
it ever was. Yeah. Right. Like that's what we're about to chat about. And they were
bitching about it in 1982. Yeah. Because and I don't even think that's wrong
necessarily. There's a lot of people like I live in Mendocino County, obviously. So
it's kind of weed land. And it's been going through some seismic shocks lately. Right.
As far as all that goes. And you really start to see the people that are in it for it.
And we're in it for spending cash or we're in it for ease or whatever. You know, like a
lot of people were into weed because weed. I mean, Matt's seen this with the seed game.
Yeah. From when he started to now. Right. How many big influx and then a big outflux.
And right now, I mean, people are dropping like flies out of the sea. You know, people
that we thought would probably be around, you know, no matter what. I was kind of
shocked. You know, it happens, though. Well, I mean, some of it is some of it is breeding
is a pain in the ass, too, you know. And so it's like it's like maybe a band, maybe it
has a one to five year life for most of them. Yeah. You know, it's really hard to make a
20 or 30 year career out of breeding. Yeah. And not being able to go anywhere, not being
able to take vacations. All that comes if you take breeding very seriously and collecting
very seriously provenance, all that that you can say goodbye to all that.
Well, on top of that, too, it's like for if you if you compare it to music, having being a
one hit wonder means you're more successful than most musicians. Yeah, because you still
had the one hit. And then because you had the one hit. And then if you have like a period
of dominance for like five years or something, that's pretty incredible. Yeah. And the number
of bands that stay relevant over 15 or 20 years even, is a tiny fraction of everyone
famous. Yeah. So imagine you have some huge hits for breeding and then five or 10 years
later, what are you doing? And then five years later, what are you doing? Can you keep
making hits? Can you keep yourself relevant? It goes into it.
I think you know what, I've seen very few seed makers be able to keep themselves relevant
unless they had like a big marketing budget, you know, in high times ads. Other than that,
it's it's always an up and down battle for most people.
Um, and so you know, there's a there's an aspect to where I don't even know how to put
it like that. But that's what happens when I read comments. Yeah, I can get totally thrown
off track. But you know, there's there's a thing now, like if we if we go from from what
Sam said to now, now all of a sudden, it's important to have old cuts because people
are trying to differentiate themselves in the legal market. There's a ton of new smokers
who are interested in these legendary things. Yeah, right. And therefore, there's money
to be made and a rep to be had by having them. Yeah. And you know, one of the things Matt
will tell you this too, one of the main ways to be a breeder is let's say you end up being
a guy that's associated to a super famous cut, even if you weren't the breeder, but
you were just somebody that got it early. Most of those people have seed companies.
Yeah. And they do. They have a famous name. So they do breeding around what got them there.
Yeah. In the hopes that like, people that are interested in that would want to get it
from some OG tied into the chem or the sour the cookie, what you know, whatever, whatever
it might be. It's get older. Yeah. Whatever it might be. Yeah. Whatever, whatever, whatever.
Matt's background, he has decided he is going to outpace me weekly. I have no figurine competition.
I can't even come close. You know, he does have figurines, but they all have big dicks.
So you can't put them up. And they're all sent to me from Matt. Yeah. I don't know if
you've ever been on the riot Christmas list. But that's really all it is, is like phallus
art. It's a large collection and I have doubles of a lot. Don't get on it. You know, that's
you want to you want to avoid getting on it. Yeah. And I'm not even I'm not even dissing
people, but it's like, by any means. But yeah, like, you know, NorCal IC mag around around
OGKB, you know, or Cornbread Ricky, you know, around TK or anyone, anyone, anyone you get
famous by it. Like a lot of people do breeding sort of based around their famous cuts. Yeah.
Right. Yeah. I mean, so then there's an aspect where it's like one of the best ways to become
a breeder where people buy your seeds is like claiming that you're associated with shit.
Yes. Yeah. The big claim, the big claim and a lot of these claims like it doesn't even
matter if they get refuted later on, as long as they help you with your rise on the way
up and build your fan base. Yeah. Whether it's ancient skunks or this or that or whatever
else, it's like just to get yourself known and on the map. Yeah. You know, and, you know,
so we'd was never ready for modern marketing techniques. So, you know, we have this running
joke in our crew called the pre pre. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Which is all these strains that
people have that exist before the strain existed. Yeah. And you see this like we'll talk we'll
make jokes like, oh, we mentioned a strain that probably hasn't been brought up in 10
to 20 years publicly. And then we like, fuck shit in two weeks, we're going to see it.
And then sure enough, two weeks later, someone's like, I got that cut and it's right here.
You know? Yeah. The pre pre. It encompasses a lot. The pre pre. And like, you know, there's
we're not I'm not going to be big on like, like names or anything like that on this particular
episode. It's more going to be like actions and themes because that's easier. Yeah. But
there's parts where it's like, OK, like somebody's got oh, I've got this thing. I've got 93 cents
a star. Yeah. But it got released in 95. Yeah. You know, or I've got 95 black domino,
but domino didn't get released until the cup in 96, which is in November. So there's all
these things where it's like there's these cuts and they're like, they're like the earliest
they could possibly be. And then a year or two earlier, sometimes decades earlier. Yeah.
There's a there's a 79 blueberry floating around. Yeah. Yeah. You know, when, you know,
DJ says that he got his Afghan to start the project, I think in 79. Yeah. And then blueberry
isn't blueberry like an F4, F5, F4. Yeah. F4. Yeah. Right. So then he did he did multiple
generations and testing and all that different stuff. But there's someone that has it that's
his from like before he you know, the year that he started.
The one I see the most is super skunk that has like the most years around it because
nobody cares to look up when it popped up. Yeah. Someone just said there's an there's
an 89 super skunk. Yeah, exactly. It got released in the 90 catalog. Yeah. You know, sour was
found. A lot of people think sour was found in 95. It wasn't. It was found in 96. The
diesel one and two was found in 95. But a lot of people sour goes right back to summer
in 95. Yeah. It's that three. There's a cut before that pre cut. There's because most
people really want to boils down to it. It's like it's almost like testing like has what
what's happened with THC testing where it's like the the the lab knows that both the dispensary
and the grower want a high test because that way everybody makes more money. Yeah. So the
market knows that these earlier dates do well. And thus these earlier dates appear.
And so we I've had this running joke that like with the magic of a Sharpie and a label,
ancient gems are unearthed all the time. Yeah, yeah. And I want them to be true. And every
once in a while a few of them are true. Yeah. But it's like, it gets it gets earlier and
earlier and earlier. And then you try to refute it. And it's like whack a mole. Yeah.
You know, and then and you know, and it's like, so provenance provenance with seeds
is really hard because they're just beans and they all look fairly similar. So it's
like how the how would you know if it's an 85? You know, the best way to identify old
beans is they don't crack. Yeah, they don't crack very easily. They don't or they none
of them pop. Yeah. Or they're not viable. And you're like, Oh, wow, maybe these are
really old because they didn't none of them worked. Yeah. It's really frustrating because
they're only fresh for about five to eight years. Yeah. And that's stored properly. One
summer in a bad closet or in a hot garage can dramatically lower their lifespan or even
kill all of them. Yeah, definitely. You know, and so now we're in this situation where I
did I didn't shave this week for street trade. You can see all the gray because all these
90 strains are coming back around now. And most people didn't experience them back then.
Yeah. So therefore people can sell them to you and you have no personal experience. So
would you like my 89 Super Skunk? Would you like my 93 cents? He saw my 95 black domino
my, you know, my pre Sam skunk. That's another favorite of mine. Yeah. Yeah. This is the
Sam started in 75. This comes from before that when it was still rank. Or the pre pre
Hayes Brothers Hayes. Yeah, whatever, whatever it might be going back even way before I was
like born. Yeah. And they still have stuff and people that have been like secret and
doing and doing repros and stuff like that. And every once in a while that stuff does
exist. Yeah, it does happen. It does happen from time to time that someone comes out with
a legitimate I have not been online and I have been holding this this exists. It does
happen. So it's like, we don't want to rain on every parade that pops up because we could
be pushing away good people. Well, yeah, you don't want to be like, there's this. There's
this there's this. There's this funny like from the will Ferrell era of Saturday Night
Live where like there's these two gay kids that work in this clothing store, and no one's
good enough to shop there. So everyone that comes in, they just insult them relentlessly
until they leave. Yeah, you know, and so, you know, you get tired because some of it
is obviously impossible, right? And then they'll be like, you call them out on the pre pre.
Yes. And they'll be like, Oh, well, my buddy got it directly from the breeder. Yeah. It
might be pre release, but my buddy got it. Yeah. Right. Or they just go along and they
just change on following posts, they just update the year to the earliest year possible.
Yeah. And go along with that new thing. Yeah. And those other posts get deleted. And they
just adapt and move forward. And when we were talking about starting doing this podcast
together, one of the main things that me and not so we're talking about, and we've talked
about this before, but are we doing a disservice to the community by putting more info out
there that is accurate to the letter when it comes to to know knowledge, you know, because
it's actually helping people craft their stories more craftily. But luckily, usually the people
that do that are so lazy, they don't really they leave holes all over. So I think it leads
to conundrums. I mean, somebody was saying about, you know, various, you know, the NL
five thing, I think I'm actually going to do a post on IG soon and like a little like
mini podcast talk on it that we have planned just because most people there are some real
pictures of NL five that Neville had, but most people haven't seen them. You know, and
haven't put it together. And there are posts that Neville made where he talked specifically
about it, and certain aspects of it and stuff like that. And most people haven't seen that
either. Yeah. Right. And so, you know, there's a part where it's like, I'm such like an old
weed nerd that like every old story, God, I want it to be true.
Yeah, yeah, he does. He really does.
You want it to be true. But the other part of it, that's really weird. And maybe we'll
bring this up and it's kind of rambling. But there's a lot of people on IG. This is gonna
be shocking that like, aren't the way they act on IG in real life.
Yeah, I know. That's fucking weird.
There's a ton of people, right. And so there's a whole group of people that find people on
IG, like me or others, and be like, I want these cuts that I see this guy posting about.
Yes. What does he want? And then try to convince
you that they have it so that you can they can get what you have by trading you something
you're after.
Yeah, that's one thing when you're doing trades, please, please be very use some critical thinking.
And if you're looking for stuff that's old or rare, don't send someone a list of your
want list. Because if they come back and send you everything on your want list, there's
probably red flags to be thrown if it's old and rare.
Some people are really good. And generally speaking, what happens is if you get bamboozled
out of cuts, or you get traded, you trade, you know, old rare shit you have that's awesome
for club cuts that they renamed. Most people stay quiet about it because they don't want
to be embarrassed that they got took advantage of.
Or they don't want to lose the monetary value of what they just bought and want to pass
on the fucking buck.
And sometimes they end up breeding with it for a few times before they realize what it
is. And then they have a bunch of seeds they made with it. And so like, there's a lot in
weed of like, you know, a small percentage of people know a bunch of stuff that's not
public. Yeah. And it gets kept quiet. For reasons like that. Yeah. You know, and you
know, and so and then some what those scammers do is then they use I'm going to make a post
with a big picture. But yeah, that is an L5. That is that is Neville's mother that he used
to make an L5 Hayes, and L5 skunk one, all that that's the only NL five cut he used in
breeding at Sensi and the last few years. And so, you know, but there's people that
let's say they once they want here, I'm really not going to name names. But let's just say
that, you know, they've managed to trade with some well regarded people. Yeah. Then it makes
it easier for them to trade with others because some of that guys, oh, he likes them and trades
with them. That guy must be cool. It also gives gives provenance seeming provenance
to the cut because now it's gone through someone reputable. And once it's gone through someone
reputable's hands, it adds that state. They they had they get two or three people to buy into it.
And now all of a sudden they got two or three well known people that they can trace real that now
they have really good cuts mixed in with their club renames. Yeah. Right. Because they can Oh,
I got it from this person and that person and you know, it's like and they got it from this person
and those people are all well known. Yeah. And so that happens a lot like there was a thing.
And we don't call it that much anymore. But like there used to be a thing long before you could
sell clones and and not be ostracized because 15 years ago, that's certainly what would have
happened. There was a thing that we used to call trade baiting. Right. And trade baiting was
basically trading people to get a cut that you thought would unlock a bunch of other cuts for
you. Yeah. Like the chem D or, you know, various different things, people would would get it
promised and not give it out. And then use that to get 15 or 20 different things. Yeah.
Right. And that's a lot of how like fakes got spread because some people got cuts only with
the intention of using that to unlock other things they wanted. Yeah. And that's how a lot of stuff
spreads. People want stuff. Yeah. It's that want that need that. Yeah. It's like Adam Smith,
like the invisible hand. People have a want. There's going to be an invisible hand that brings
the goods or services to them. Yeah. And there's people out there that if they don't have that,
they'll just say they have it. Yeah. Because they want what's in your pocket. Yeah. You know.
And so that's where, you know, so now we have a bunch of so when when old strains were unpopular,
it was really, really hard to find anybody that would say, oh, I've got old shit.
Because there wasn't any money in it. Yeah. Now there's a bunch of money in it. They're everywhere.
Yeah. Right. And so, you know, and and yeah, seemingly, you know, and then stuff gets a
wash and you've got, oh, I've got 89 this and I've got this and I've got that and I've got,
you know, and and it gets laundered through a few respectable people. And then some of those
respectable people breed with it a couple of times and it's in their work. Yeah. And that's
what makes provenance so hard. Yeah. Is everything comes out of the shadows. There's nothing really
it's written down. It's nothing that's easily proved. It's all person to person honesty chain.
So maybe I'll use an example of something that I consider to be like really good problems.
OK, so, you know, Greg pops what the dog which became called the Chem 91.
OK, he gives it to my buddy Staten Island. OK, Staten gives him the skunk and comes west
from that Staten gives it to Skunk VA, myself and another friend. And we've all had it since.
Yeah. So it's like a short chain. Everybody agrees on both sides that it happened.
And then you don't lose it. Yeah. That's what we would call really excellent provenance.
Yeah. You know, like the people involved are believable. The time frame is believable.
Yeah. You know, and all that. And then we have stuff that's got really bad. Yeah. You know,
like something that that Matt and I have been trying to figure out recently is does the actual
cut of Kush that Matt, Matt Bubba and Jody and and Josh, did that did that still exist?
Yeah. You know, the provenance on that one is hard because they lost it
multiple times and it got renamed in L.A. and there's like half a dozen different cuts that
all claim to be it. Right. Yeah. If you have original ghosts, they claim that to be it.
If you have original 92 OG, they they consider that to be legit. Yeah. Right. The first SFV is
supposed to be it. Can you think of others? I was just thinking of something that makes the
Kim 91 story a bit more complex, because when you have a situation where someone,
you know, has has a good, reliable transaction and we have reliable provenance getting it to him.
And then the next thing he passes out, like, for example, Kim D.
In a short period of time, two people get two different cuts and no one can quite remember
who got which cut first. But in such a short period of time, you can't really tell which
one would be considered the original or not, you know. And at that point, it becomes
is an unreliable narrator always unreliable or can we just get it wrong once?
Somebody said SFV is it. There's more than one SFV cut that floats around.
Yeah. After a seed line was released called SFV, there was no more trying to dig up just SFV
without running into a thousand of them. So that's what I mean in the sense that
there's some things that are fairly well agreed upon. Yeah. But then there's a lot
where the provenance gets lost or murky. Yeah. And it's kind of and it's kind of like and then
in that case, it's it, you know, it suffers from renames. The ghost of right now isn't
the ghost that was getting traded 20 years ago. Yeah, it's not. Yeah. You know, and,
you know, there's, you know, like the eight, you know, there's people that have the old AJ's
Sour Diesel and there's people that have the another AJ's Sour Diesel.
I keep trying to figure out if Stoney Puffin stuff in here is the Stoney Puffin stuff from
Overgrow and Cannabis World and stuff. Well, I guess that's a good person for provenance.
I guess he could clear it. I get you know, he could probably clear it up.
Yeah. But yeah. And so then it becomes too, it becomes like
provenance that becomes like based on your trust or your knowledge. So it gets to be
pretty small circles that know what's verified. Yeah. And I have people all the time, like in
legal California, there's an aspect where, you know, it's almost like all these strains are like
punk rock bands that never signed with a label. Yeah. So nobody owns them. So there's this like
multi-billion dollar industry that's getting developed. And all these sharks are looking
around like nobody owns any of this shit. Yeah. Nobody controls the rights to these cuts. Why not?
Well, that's the beauty of a black market industry, a clandestine industry. It's it
leaves a lot of room for snakes to come in because the only reprisal is physical. There's
not like legal reprisals for anything. Right. But then that doesn't mean that there's not people
that are going to like trademark the name. Oh, yeah. Yeah, for sure. You know, and try to control
it and say this cut is it because they want to make money off it. And, you know, there's a risk
that it's like imagine somebody else tries to like imagine somebody tries to to to, you know,
trademark the Chem 91 and then anybody else growing it or using it has to give them kickbacks.
Yep. You know, so there's all this weird stuff where there's like, there's all this compartmentalized
tribal knowledge about cuts. And it's not widely known a lot of it. And people use that murkiness
to hustle a lot of fake history. Yeah. And even sometimes some of the most people that would be
in the know some of the old timers, they're part of that same issue. Yeah, because they'll tell you
there's plenty of old timers that have come out of the shadows and ended up scamming people
because they have probably their name itself, who they were, where they came from. Yeah. You know,
there was a famous incident with, you know, the G 13 cut. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. That was a little weird.
You know, and the person that was offering it and selling it for a lot of money had impeccable
provenance. Yeah. But it was a scam. If I remember, it was double D's kind of G 13. That was
the Dr. Green thumb said he had been double D's said, don't use my fucking name. He didn't get
it from me. If I remember correctly, that's how it went. Neville at the time when we were talking
said that that's not the cut. But then Neville also told me to get a Dr. Green thumb and get
some of them seeds for free. So who knows? Who knows where that story really landed?
Yeah. But that's exactly kind of the thing where it is. You get claims, there's sales happening.
You get arguments by various people involved who all don't agree. People are tempted to buy it,
right? Because everybody knows that controversy sell seats. Yeah. Right. So there's also people
that I won't name that I think are kind of sociopathic in the seed game. But they said
something that I think was really revealing one time, even though people were giving them a lot
of shit about a lot of fake releases. He said, everything I release sells out. Yes. And you
could see that that was what mattered to him. Yeah. Right. And so a lot of these people for
seed, you know, for seeds, it's like, that's really what matters to them. They want them to
sell for the pack price. Yeah. You know, the truth is genetics for me. The truth is a cut of
my Maui by super dog. And it was it was seeds I gave to Mandelbrot and he found he found it.
And some apparently some Rasta he was smoking with said this weed is the truth
because he got super buzzed. And that's the moniker that got added onto it.
But yeah, he's saying can Stoney Puff and stuff again, Mark Emery, almost every seed maker post
Neville either added mystery, confusion or some lies in order to sell seeds.
If I remember correctly, Stoney's the PNW hash plant.
Really? Yeah. That's why I have his name in my head right now because of that. Yeah.
So, I mean, and there's and basically now we're in this point where, you know, the history might
become valuable because almost every eight eighties and nineties famous line is starting
to have its day in the sun again, getting offered as seeds and people claiming to have the real deal
Holyfield. Yeah. There's one thing I'd like to cover, and that is how how how groups and clone
groups were formed, because we did kind of touch on, you know, going to the parties back in the
day. But I've noticed that that that's one of the questions I get from some of the youngsters in our
Breeders Syndicate Discord chat is like, how do I even get to these groups with these cuts? Like,
how does that even work? It's a foreign concept to them. And it's just like you just make friends
with people and you talk, you shoot the shit. A lot of times you're not even talking about weed
when you shoot the shit with someone. You're just talking about what you have in common.
And over time, people decide, OK, this person's bullshit or they're not. And we share because
we're friends. And that's that's kind of how it goes. And it's a slow process. Sometimes you don't
ever share anything, you know, in a group. Sometimes you share everything you have and,
you know, that's how it goes. But that's how the groups used to work. It's a lot different than
than just going and buying the cuts today. I would say that like if people the grail of to me,
of of that kind of situation, when you actually like go Jedi Master or whatever, and you get
beyond most trading and people just want to give you things. Yeah. Is that you just have to be
honest about what you're after and what your intentions are. The whole time. Yeah. And then
if you're honest and people like you and you're not pulling anything on them because you're honest,
like you, you know, you get you get into more and more different groups because there's only so many
collectors. Yeah. It's a small community. That's always been the case. Everyone wants what's hot
and what sells for a high dollar. But actual collectors that are holding on to things for
like how they breed or how they love the weed or whatever else, that's pretty rare. And when when
people pass me these lists that people send them like clone lists and say, hey, do you think this
person would have this or that? The first thing I think is, who is this person connected to? Who
does this person know that I know that's in these groups? Because, you know, usually if they're
showing off like a really rare clone, it's like, OK, who's he connected to? Who would he have had
access to to get this cut? Is that very likely? How rare is the cut? Who do we know that's currently
holding it? This is all involved in provenance and looking through it and trying to figure it out.
And yeah, a lot of times it doesn't add up anymore. And you have you can have a situation
where, you know, a lot of us know each other. And so what Matt was just talking about, it might
involve a few phone calls and, you know, and like cross referencing and checking. Yeah. You know,
and all that. And so, you know, because there's a thing to where like up here,
you know, and there was like there's you know, we'll get to it in a bit. There was like a nugget
that created this show essentially or the idea for the show. But it is it's really hard to get
people. That's what makes that's what makes me laugh so much is that it's so hard to get anyone
to hold on to old things that whenever you just see a tsunami of old things, you're like, well,
shit. Yeah. You know? Yeah. You know, I wish there was no. And the thing is, is that so
everybody asked me about my like my collection and all this different stuff. So, you know,
my collection is basically like, I'd like to say that it had some like master plan or I knew
eventually one day, you know, I mean, I like to breed and stuff. So like holding on to plants,
I think are cool. I do that sometimes. But mostly, it's, you know, it's it's stuff I
personally like to smoke. Yeah. And I didn't care if it was valuable to others. It was valuable to
me. Right. And for the most part, most people just want what's easy to sell right now. Yeah.
And they'll dump whatever they were selling before that isn't as easy as the new thing.
Yeah, very quickly. Very quickly, you know, and so, you know, did I think one day holding on to
all this stuff like I don't have, you know, a bunch of my old cuts because I had some master
plan. Yeah. I had old cuts because I liked growing them in the greenhouse or whatever
and having some head stash along with whatever else I was doing. And I liked making hybrids
with them because they're my and then maybe I get better wheat. Yeah. You know, but that's not most
people. Honestly, they hold on to cuts because the value that they put on the cut is monetary.
Yeah. Whether by breeding with it, selling clones of it or selling flower.
You know, and I saw someone just made a comment that, you know, like, well, provenance is shit.
It's in the flower, make a produce flower. And that's cool, except for the fact that a lot of
the times that the cuts people are hunting, they've never had any experience with the flower before in
the first place. So how are they ever going to then smoke the flower and be like, yep, this is
the one you have to have experience with with it in the first place to be able to do that. So while
I agree with that, if you don't have the experience with it in the first place, it doesn't really do
anything better than trying to establish that oral history. You know, luckily, luckily, we're
not so far forward that a lot of these people are totally gone. A lot of people are still around
that we can trace hand to hand to hand to hand back. And then there's a there's an aspect where
it's like, how old is your memory? Yeah, just because you had a cut for X or I had a cut for
X amount of years, and then you go 10 or 15 or 18 years without seeing it. Are you just because you
had it? Are you certain to be able to 100% identify it again? This is the problem we have with Trinity.
And it's the reason that nobody's like me, CSI, no one's willing to say yes, this is the fucking
one. You know, as much as I would like to, and as much as it would probably sell seeds better,
if I were, it's just like, it just, the memory isn't there anymore.
Half the half my crew thinks it is half my crew thinks it isn't. Yeah. You know, and, you know,
someone just said trades used to happen off samples. You know how hard it is for me to get
to get samples from people of strains that they have a flower that they grew?
Yeah, because a lot of people get clones just to flip them for other clones.
Yeah. Or to build their stable or to this or that or whatever, you know, so it's there's an aspect
where, you know, it, I don't know. Memory gets tough. Yeah, it does. You know, it really does.
It's like a somatic stuff. It is always a factor to and bias and wanting to have it there again,
like finding that old, you know, forgotten clone, that's got to be it. You're already
wanting it to get so it can be it, you know, so that's all. Somebody just said, one thing I will
agree with is that the Trinity cut that we have and is floating around is, is really good wheat.
Yeah. So regardless of the truth of it or not, it's enjoyable. It's very enjoyable smoke.
It's also similar. It's also similar a little bit to the train wreck Trinity that I grew from Jill.
It has a lot of similar traits to that. And I think that was an older cut using the old Trinity.
And I'm not 100 on that. Yeah. And I mean, there's there's a thing to now where it's like you,
you know, there's certain cuts that I've had for long enough, like, you know, if I was to lose the
chem dog or something, like I would be able to recognize if it was really good. Yeah. Because
I've been growing it since the late 90s. And I've grown it a lot. And it's super unique looking and
smelling. I just I just have such a relationship, like the smell of it. Yeah, no, and like the look
of it and the way it makes me feel. You know, it's like, that's not something that I had,
like a short term relationship with. That's like something you were like,
like, you were married to your wife for 20 years, like you could you can you can hear her voice.
Yeah. You know, it's, you know, it's just that's kind of some things are like that. But,
you know, it's hard because most people in weed and there's nothing wrong with this are younger.
And they want access to their history and all these famous old cuts. And they're willing to
give up money or see, you know, or other clones or this or that or whatever else. And so there's a
there's a group of people that are ethical about that. And there's a group of people that aren't.
Yeah. And there's somebody that's asking me, oh, we need s ones that la kush, bro.
And so I don't know if like, this is kind of like, we're almost an hour in. So maybe we'll
chat about it. But Matt, Matt spoke about like, we joke about how, you know, we'll talk about
something, not that we're super important. But like, you start talking about something and you
and you get you get people also talking about it, right? And then all of a sudden, you see it pop up.
Yeah. So, Matt, Matt and myself, we were discussing it this week. And it's I think in the last
eight months, 10 months, there's been three different breeders that have put out seeds that
have the not so LA kush label. Yeah. Not so headband. Yeah. Right. Where in the previous 15
years, that label didn't exist. Not once. Not one time anywhere ever. Yeah. Right. No, no, you know,
uh, whatsoever. And then all of a sudden I start talking about it. And not only does the name it
pop up, but my name gets associated with it. The only time your name got associated with it
originally was when in our group, because there were two different headbands, we like the one
that we had, and the one that you had, and we had to identify it. So we would have like, referred to
it as that, you know, but it was never a popular name before we would talk about it. And that's a
lot of how some of these internet names, like none of us ever use the term. I use the term chem
91 often now because it's a good communication tool. Yeah. But none of us ever called it that.
That's an internet term. Just like the skunk VA cut. Yeah. That's an internet term, you know?
It was never said, you know? And so, you know, I get that people might want to like attach
names to cuts because it helps differentiate. Yeah. That's just an important. Sure. And,
you know, for me, I was anti it happened anyway. Some people, some people attach their name to
cuts intentionally. Yeah. When they know they had nothing to do with it, you know, like, I don't
know, loop a headband. Something like that. Yeah. Yeah. So I mean, he got the cut from someone else
and he decided I'm going to say it's the best weed in the world. And it's my week. Yeah. You know,
and you know, and you know, and then there's so there's this aspect where it's like, it puts me
specifically in this weird conundrum. Right? Where there's a small group of people out there
that think that I'm chatting with all you guys every week that Matt and I,
in order to do some like long running scam. Yeah. Because most people can't most people
don't actually like what's the best way to put it? Most people don't think how you think.
Yeah. Most people think that what would I do in his shoes? Yeah. Right. And since most breeding
is about money, and it's not about love or cannabis or anything like that, like they feel
like there has to be something for it. Right. Yeah. So I chat about stuff. Matt and I chat about
stuff, we generate some interest, which is very kind of y'all to have interest in. So there's
interest in these seeds and these cuts and this, this and this that, but I don't sell that stuff.
So there's a small group that thinks, Oh, this is what's coming. Yeah. But since I'm not doing it,
there's another group that's just adding my name to shit. And you can buy my clones,
that my name on it, or my hybrids with mine with my strains that from people I've never met.
Or, you know, and, and I can, I can verify he's not coming. He wasn't even breathing hard before
he said that. You know, so, so then what do you do? So it's like, so if I offer it, then like,
I wasn't about the history, I was just trying to pump y'all up into some bullshit to sell it to
you. Yeah. But then if I don't offer it, other people are going to offer it to feed the desire.
And so we've gone, nobody's used the word not so as headband in 15 years. And then we have three
different people using it to breed with in the last eight months and clones of it for sale.
Right. And these people have never reached out to me or talk to me or this or that, or give me,
giving me flour or like done any kind of like basic investigation to make sure that like,
they think they have the same thing. No, no, not whatsoever. That's a lot of work.
That's a lot of work, you know? So it's just like all of a sudden somebody sends me something and
goes, Hey dude, did you give your buddy a, did you give your buddies a, the, the cut so we can
make beans? And I have no idea. And then if you get mad about it, they just like it because then
it's just more controversy and people, some people will think, oh, he must have it. Yeah.
He's mad because he must have it. It must be true. And you know, there's not even a thing
where I'm like, oh, you can't call something headband unless I approve. Yeah. But how,
if you've never met me or smoked my flower, how the fuck do you know? It's, it, it's gotta be the
same one that I have. Yeah. It doesn't make any sense. It doesn't make any sense at all. You know?
And so there was a, there was a cut this week that got some controversy that Matt brought to that.
Like it turns out it started its life as Jay plant speaker sour that was bought from a club.
And then Jay got mad and it got renamed the real sour. Maybe now it's me and now it's not. So
it's headband. That may be the story, but that wasn't the first story. Who knows? Yeah. It just
is one of those. It's one. And then, you know, and then there's arguments and anger back and
forth. And I don't even want to say names. Cause it's not, that's not, that point's not important,
you know? But it's just one of those things where it's like, I have people all the time on this show
DM me, can we get cuts? Can we get seeds? Can we this, can we that? Right. And so I've never
really done that to the public. I've done it mostly in private to friends. Um, but then if
I don't do it public, there's going to be scammers that see there's an opportunity and just do it.
And some people are going to get scammed public catch 22, you know? So what do you do?
You know? And then there's a funny thing too, right? Where it's like,
I see this with headband and sour all the time and I'll keep talking about it because it's,
it's relevant. Uh, obviously diesels and headbands and sours are sort of kind of having
their time in the sun again. They had a brief five or six year period of not popularity as
purples and various things swept the land again, but now they're coming back and everyone wants
to have the oldest, realist, best cut of either. Yeah. So they can sell flower or seeds at high
prices to people that want to experience the real deal or clones or clones or sell clones for
three, five, 300, 500, 800, a thousand bucks, whatever it might be. Right. So I don't know
that I have, I don't know that I I've had, I got this hour 22 years ago. I got the headband
a year after that. So 21, so Oh, what? 2000, 2001 right in there. Right. Yeah. I don't know
their provenance before they came to me. They came to me with a label. Do I know for sure that
my cut is the original diesel to cut that? I don't. I just know that I've had it since this
year and never lost it. Yeah. Do I know what sour is the right sour and the real sour and the one
that Manny found in the bag of weed? I don't know that either, but I've had it since 2000 and I
haven't lost it. And most people that are selling these ancient cuts now got these diesel cuts
within the last few years. Yeah. And so they're either history of it doesn't even go back very
far. So what you're saying is your cut must be the Albany sour. Well, that's the funny part is that
five years ago, because there's a story too, that Matt and Pip and a bunch of friends kept asking me,
well, which cut is it? Right. And I got it a long time ago and it came helpfully labeled sour D.
And so I thought I had sour D and so I never traded anyone ever for sour D. Why would I? I
had the cut and I never lost it and I liked it. So then Matt and Pip and other friends start
telling me, well, there's res cut and there's shroomy and there's Amish and there's ECSD and
there's Chaco and there's New York city. And so I start collecting all these things
and growing all of them and it ends up, none of them are my headband and none of them are my
sour. And now when I collected all those, there wasn't anything called the Catskills cut,
the Albany cut. There's like, there's a bunch of- No Amherst. No Amherst, no, you know, no J.
Plant speaker, of which I know he doesn't really like his name being attached to it. There's about
half a dozen new sour names that have just come up in the last three or four years.
Right. And everyone ties back to the mid nineties, guaranteed. And most of these people,
if you ask them how long they've personally held the cut, it's a, it's, it's a, you could count the
number of years on one hand. Yeah. You know? And so I don't know that my shit's the real deal.
I know that I like it a bunch and I know that I've had it a long time,
but it doesn't seem like the chain goes all the way back to when it started,
where you can guaranteed where like people have it. So everyone just claims they have it.
Yeah. And none of these people want to send it to the original sour people for confirmation.
No, I just don't have a clue who they could send it to that's in the sour crew. Most people
still think that whoever goes on the podcast and claims that they have
yells the loudest that they're the sour guy is, is who it is.
Yeah. And Rez got his sour cut supposedly in 07, you know, 06, something like that.
And then he released a line called sour diesel. Yeah. IVL, which made it even more. And then,
you know, people would get bag seeds and call their bag seed sour diesel.
Yeah. Right. And so there's a bunch of people right now selling cuts for hundreds of dollars
that they're very, very, very sure that it's the oldest and the best and the realest deal
and selling you expensive flour to try real sour diesel. Yeah. And because there's a bunch of
desire for it, there's not a bunch of ethics around it. And you can whine and bitch and moan
and ask questions and then they just get pissed off and their buddy and their buddy and their
buddy. And they find out the names of who it came from originally. And then that's who just had it.
So there's another aspect that I had written down here. And this is one like, this is,
this is the conversations I have with a lot of people that sell seeds behind the scenes.
And, and one of the ones that's repeating that we, we always come back to is how do you compete
in a market of dishonesty where the loudest, the cheapest, or the most expensive it is what
usually sells. It's not necessarily who can prove that they sourced it correctly. It has nothing to
do with what sells in all honesty. Very, very few people care about that. So in a market where the
name is what's selling along with the trademark and brand, how do you compete? If you try to do
it the right way, when it takes months, it takes years to source something correctly at sometimes.
And then looking through the line, then testing the line, how do you compete in a market like that?
Yeah, that's tough. Yeah. None of us have ever figured it out.
I mean, in the, Matt's in the seed market more in the flower market. It's the same thing where
you try to grow the, I try to grow the, you try to grow the best weed you can.
Yeah. And not everybody does that. Most people don't do that. Most people try to grow,
you know, just barely good enough to pass. Yeah. That's, that's kind of the market. It's
always been the market, but if you grow really good dank, then you're going to battle with brokers
that always tell you that they can get cheaper dank. Yeah. And since their goal is margin,
right. They would rather buy something worse that they get a bigger range on in terms of
profitability that week than something better with a narrow range where they give a fixed price.
Yeah. And so they'll always, they'll be like, if they, if they look at you and say,
this is the best weed I've seen in six months, they're not going to offer you more for it.
Yeah. You know, but they're going to, everyone tries to kick the tires and make your weed worth
less so they can get bigger margin from whatever they're doing. Yeah. And so that's the same,
it's the same thing with like with, with flower even is like, you can grow real flower, but like,
you know, and there's a bunch of people up in my neck of the woods that got used to,
got pissed off and just got used to growing B weed because that was what sold and that's what
moved. And it like, why put in the, all the extra effort. Yeah. And now the market's so tanked,
and now the market's so tanked, you know, you know, they, they haven't grown fire in a really
long time. They've grown decent commercial. Yeah. And they used to be able to survive off decent
commercial and now they can't, you know, because it's been a long time. And so same thing with
seeds. It's like, you know, they, you're going to flood the market and then you have a situation
where if you're ethical and you want to test stuff before sale, someone's always going to beat you to
Always. And that's why when people are saying, you know, like, well, I'll just
throw the fire and fire will prove it. That's not how it works. I mean, greenhouse, let's look at
the top of the industry, greenhouse DNA, you know, like a Dynafem. This is the top of the industry.
Even in the U S you got compound, you know, burner. This is the top of the industry. So do you really
think fire is going to make it through all this when that's the, the customer, the market's
customer driven and customer driven means that rappers probably are driving the market.
So at what point does fire win? And I laugh when people from Florida and Virginia and
Georgia, I don't, it's not, it's not like I'm laughing at them, but it's like when people from
these various States are like, Oh man, you California and you just grow the booth. Yeah.
And I'm like, no, no, no, no. You're the brokers that, that brought it to you. They bought the
booth. Yeah. They probably had a different choice, but they made more money off the booth
and they still thought you'd buy it. Yeah. So that's what they're bringing you. Yeah. If you
insisted upon real fire and refuse to buy the booth, they'd have to change their game. Right.
But they were buying the booth for cheap and flipping it to you for a little less expensive
and their margin was better. Yeah. So, you know, booth exists for a reason in that regard.
Yeah, it does. You know, and, and there's an aspect too, where it was like this week, you know,
and once again, I'm not, I won't mention names or anything, but like, you know,
Matt got upset because my name got used and you know, the person's response was basically like,
Oh, he's just butthurt that we beat him to making seats. I could have, you know,
I could have been begging not to for that cut when we met and I've never asked him for it once,
you know, you know, and it's because they're, they know that there's like, there's a market
out there for it and there's people that are excited to try it. And since I'm not feeling
that market, they're like, fuck it. I'll beat him to it. I will. Yeah. And I'll do it better
than he can. Yeah. And it's marketing. They're just trying to sell something. What are you going
to do? Six months later, a complain that the cross didn't come out the way you thought.
Yeah. And most people don't pop their seeds right away. So even six months,
most people are working at two and a half, three years before they
get to the seeds that they purchased. And the seed game, much like the flower game,
as Matt will say, is in rough, choppy waters right now. Sales are down and expenses are high
and, and volume is low. And so people are searching for whatever little edges they can.
Yeah. You know? And so it's a real issue where it's like people ask me. So if I was to do
something where I was to like offer up cuts or offer up seeds and try to fill a demand that a
bunch of people have, I would be selling out. Yeah. But if I don't, other people are going to
and are going to and are doing it currently. And it's not even real. Yep. And part of the reason
why Matt and I started this podcast was just to give certain weed heads an opportunity to hear
real. Yeah. When there was just a sea of self-serving disinformation and infomercials and
some really bad, not that there's not some quality talks out there, so don't everybody feel
bad, but like just, you know, an attempt to like get, get some, at least some stand against the
bullshit. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, you know, people already didn't like me. It wasn't going to hurt
my reputation to do this shit. And, uh, it was nice to be able to do it with someone that had
a good reputation already. You know what I mean? And it's honest. So, and it's interesting in the
sense that the more I talk, like it's nice that there, I get people that, you know, we, Matt and
I do get quite a bit of nice messages about this thing. Um, but there also is resentment and anger
and hatred. Yeah. Because we'll do an history episode and, you know, all of a sudden I'll say
something or Matt will say something that contradicts some narrative that somebody else has.
And we don't even mention them by name, but they're pissed off because it, it undermines
what they're trying to do. Yeah. There's a lot of things I would love to talk about. And even,
even with my loose lips, like as far as, uh, you know, talking about what I feel, feel like talking
about, there's a lot of things that I don't talk about. Somebody just asked. So who does right now?
If you want to, if you want to get any headband crosses from me, um, uh, you can't, but, uh, I did
share the cut with, uh, uh, with CSI. And there's some really fucking good ones. And he released
some TK and some Chem D and people send me stuff all the time. It looks like those are both really
nice hybrids, especially the D. Um, he'll probably be releasing some more stuff in the future.
Uh, I'm still on the fence about myself. Um, but, uh, but you know, he has it directly from me
and I gave it to him so he could make seeds so people could have a chance to grow some hybrids
of it. Cause he's got a big reach, you know, and all that different type of stuff. Um, and,
uh, you know, there's a, there's a thing too, where Matt and I think that probably within the
next five years, the seed market will probably shrink a lot and thus the breeders will probably
shrink a lot. Yeah. I, I say in the next six, six months, we're going to see a drastic decline
back to where it was, you know, maybe a few years ago, you already see a lot of people starting
opening up the vault and offering a bunch of stuff from their collection that they're like,
what the fuck am I going to do with this? What am I going to do with this? Maybe somebody else
wants it. Maybe I can generate some money. Uh, the amount of, of boats, RVs, various things up here
for sale. Uh, you know, the, the downturn in cannabis right now has caused a fire sale amongst
all sectors. Yeah, it has, you know, a fire sale of, of all sectors. And, uh, um, you know,
and so, you know, there's part of the reason why, uh, there is a, a decent amount of my work in
modern things is because I was really stupid back when, uh, prices were high 20 years ago and I was
growing seeds for me and friends, uh, on the side when everybody else was just bumping out
flower and getting high prices. So there wasn't that many people breeding 20 years ago.
And you were in a perfect spot for distribution in that area where people growing massive amounts
of weed. Yeah. I mean, as far as distribution, as far as getting friends to try it, sure. As
far as making sales, no, no, not sales. No, it was a, it was a passion project, money losing venture.
Yeah. And so as soon as the easy money goes out of it, I anticipate most of the breeders that
mostly just mash together stuff via reversals. We'll go do something else. Yeah. Um, and, uh,
you know, so, you know, it'll probably shrink, which, you know, there'll be a bunch of volume,
uh, shrinkage and then the people that are passionate about it will stay in it.
Yeah. And then you'll have less options, but you'll probably have better people to buy from
overall. I hope so. I hope so. I mean, when there was a, uh, not a big, like burst in the
scene before cookies and stuff, when seats were still kind of small, there's probably 50 of us
worldwide, you know, 2006 to 2008. Now there are thousands and thousands. So I hope it gets smaller
just because it was nicer. People weren't as cutthroat, but I mean, you know, it's cool.
It's cool. Seeing a lot of different people's point of view though, like being able to see
all the different, um, crosses and stuff from all the different points of view is always cool.
Yeah. I mean that, that is neat and I'm not trying to dissuade anyone. I mean,
I always say on the show and I say in private too, when people ask me,
like, how should I focus on being a good breeder? And I always say like, you know,
try to breed things you like. Yeah. Try to like, I like, I like these things from this plant and
these things from this plant. I wonder if I cross them, could I get the traits I like of both in a
single plant? Yeah. Could I make weed I like myself? You know, uh, people talk, please put
the cookie lineage out there or not. The cookie thing is like, I don't know when we'll get to the
cookie thing. Uh, that might be, that might be a while. It's hard. One of the reasons why, uh,
Matt and I started like in the eighties with Neville and the city and the, and Corral and
the city club and all that is that, um, there was less people to get mad and argue. Yeah. Yep. Yep.
You started in the eighties and you go to the nineties and there's only, there's, there's less
humans that are going to get mad at you. I only get Sam the skunk man mad at me right now for,
for what we've done. Cookies is like trying to be a billion dollar empire. They're definitely
positioning themselves to sell out to like, you know, some huge corporation when it goes federal.
Um, they have stores all over the place. They're big into branding, um, and all that. And so trying
to, you know, that's like really poking the dragon, um, because they don't give a shit about
the truth. Like the truth is irrelevant to them. They're building, they're trying to build an
enormous brand with stores all over the nation and clothing and all this different shit.
Yeah. I mean, there was footage of Bernard going into city council meetings and talking about the
illegal grows in that city by name. So I, pissing people off who do shit like that is not my bag.
No, they got, they've got, and you know, they're backed by a lot of money and stuff like that. And
so, you know, I know that there's, I know that, and it's not, that's not the only reason I'm not
going to do it yet. Part of the reason is, is that, uh, there's a lot of lying and there's a
lot of stories to unravel. And, um, you know, I do try to, when I talk to people to be pretty
upfront about what we think we know for pretty sure and what we are unsure of.
Yes. And so when everyone has a different story and everyone's kind of a shady,
shady liar and everyone has issues, uh, you know, I know a lot that people don't know.
Um, but I don't think I, we, you know, we're not quite there yet.
Yeah. We don't have the full picture yet.
I don't think we're quite there yet. So, uh, as a result of that, we're probably,
you know, and since like Matt and I started way back,
we've just barely gotten to talking about the last 10 or 15 years.
Yeah.
You know, uh, and that's hard.
I still want to go back and cover the 90s forum era because that one episode,
we kind of just went on a tangent and that would be fun to do.
So, I mean, one of the, one of the, one of the things talking about, you know,
we can tie this into provenance or whatever, you know, and like strain history is like,
as you know, cookies is a good example. So, you know, skittles is too,
and all these different things where it's like, you have a loose association of friends
with no contracts and no organization. And then a strain that comes out of their
little circle gets hella famous. Yeah. And then there's a grab of who does what?
So there's four or five or six people tightly involved in the cookie story early.
Yeah. As far as like when it got famous, forget about like how it got made or the various steps,
but as far as like after it started getting provenance.
Yeah.
Right. And there's no contract. So who gets what piece of the pie?
You know, same thing with, with skittles. Skittles used to be, you know,
Tony Mendo and Fields and, and, uh, and Third Gen.
Shiloh.
Shiloh. And then, you know, there was battles over direction and this and that and everything else.
And it's split into, into two camps.
Yep.
And then, you know, Shiloh and Brandon didn't get along. And so they split.
And so fame and money has been the end of a lot of close of, of weed friendships.
Yeah.
Because who owns it? Who should profit off it? Who gets what? Who did what?
You know? And look at Berner, you know, Berner's the face of cookie.
I can tell you straight. He had nothing to do with it.
Yeah.
At all. He promoted it.
He's a great clothing guy though.
Yeah. He promoted it and he's good at promoting and he has the part and, and all that.
And so the guy that had the least to do with it got to be the most famous face of it.
Yeah.
You know?
People are, people are kind of learning like that.
People say nobody owns the plant.
Yeah.
People say, someone just said nobody owns the plant.
There's a lot of people that are going to be trying to own plants.
Yeah.
You watch. Owning plants, trademarking names, trademarking strains, genetic markers,
all that different types of shit. That's all coming.
Yeah. And you know, for me, that's very complicated because I'm one of those people
who's like, fuck that. I don't want to fucking deal with that shit. Like, but,
I'm going to be the one who loses out in the end for not giving a shit, not wanting to do it.
You know what I mean? So it's another catch 22 that like,
if I don't at least learn about it and how to protect myself, then I'm going to get railed.
I had an interview this week about my, my collection.
Yeah.
And a big time nursery that I won't name.
And I, you know, I wanted to see what they thought.
Yeah.
What was their line of thinking? What was their offer? You know, what was their,
you know, not like, like, is it good enough to sell out or anything like that? But
Yeah.
Just like, you know, thoughts on like how people are arranging.
Because a lot of these things, you know, a lot of these nurseries, a lot of these rich people,
it's like, one of the things they don't have is they don't have the stories.
They don't have the cuts and they don't have the know-how.
Yeah. None of it. And they all thought they could buy their way into a clandestine scene.
The marketing, you know, the lawyers, the certifications, the licensing,
the real estate, they got all that.
Yeah.
So there's a big thing where it's like, it's almost like they're going around to desperate
growers and be like, you know, do you want to license your shit? You know? But then it's like,
who, like, for instance, like who licenses the chem 91?
Duh, T bud.
But you know, but I'm serious, you know, like Greg, Staten Island,
Skunk VA, me, I see someone else, someone we never heard of.
Yeah.
You know, like, how would you even, how would, like, how would you even go for it?
Well, I hate to break it to you, but my grandfather is actually
the king of dog bud. He was elected. So I think it might be.
Yeah.
I mean, you know, you, you know, secret societies, all that.
Yeah. Me and all my secret societies. That's one of them.
Indeed. But, you know, but that, but that's, that kind of stuff is coming.
So it's one thing if like, you want to talk to a breeder and like, you know,
fricking Fletcher wants to license rainbow belts.
Yeah.
Because it's like, he made it.
Yeah.
But what about every old cut that just came out of the ether and got traded around?
There's people that are going to be attempting to lock those in.
That's coming.
Yeah. I always wondered why Rob Clark's name was associated with OG Kush on Phylos over a tie.
That was weird.
And those guys, you can look around. I mean, like Phylos exists in a different form now,
you know, and I saw, and there's different and you, and you look and there's there,
you know, I love Rob Clark and his contributions to cannabis, but he's on,
he's on some suspect boards.
Yeah. Yeah.
Of some companies and stuff like that, you know?
And yeah, all these people who has a claim to the stake and then when, and then like,
and then how much of that stake and then whatever.
And it's like, a lot of these people are just trying to collect genetics and dangle money
in front of you and not even money for buying it like money in the future, like, like spot us to
them. And then when we sell a bunch of them, we'll give you money.
Yeah.
But really we need to give us the collection first.
And that's going on all over the place. And they're looking for,
they're looking for, they're looking for desperate people.
Yeah, for sure. And, and unfortunately for them and unfortunately for the scene,
they don't give a fuck if it's real or not. They just want someone to tell them it's real.
And if it's a big enough company that proliferates more than any real cut ever would.
And that's how things change for good. And that's how we should be good.
Yeah. When it first happened in the nineties, Strains got trademarked, right?
So I bought, I bought Super Skunk direct from Neville in the, in the, in the late nineties.
Right. But it was called Ultra Skunk.
Yeah.
Because Scentsy owned Super Skunk.
Yep.
They own the name, you know, you know, White Widow is owned by Greenhouse.
Even though their breeder who, you know, Shanti left or whatever. It's, it's like, they own it.
It's almost like someone saying they own Breeder Syndicate.
Yeah. Yeah. People get the name, they get the name or whatever. And so that,
so what's cool about history in any case, not just weed history,
but humans aren't really that much different.
Yeah.
So by studying the past, you'll start to see a lot of, a lot of, a lot of similarities in,
in the, in today. And what happened in Amsterdam in the nineties is happening again.
Yes.
You know, you might even say Arjun is, is, is, you know, Greenhouse was the Dutch cookie.
Yeah. Very much so.
You know, rich backed by, backed by a bunch of capital, right. Really connected backers.
Yeah.
All that type of stuff, you know. And there's big money behind all that.
And just like, just like Greenhouse did when they went to South Africa and Africa,
they got all their strains there and it took out a lot of those heirloom lines. They're gone.
I was just talking to someone from South Africa yesterday. They're gone.
We see Berner going to Thailand and we're going to see again in the next several years,
those heirloom lines are going to be gone and replaced by what is being pushed over there.
What's being, what's selling best over there?
I mean, a lot of, a lot of Morocco is Dutch strains.
Yeah.
A lot of Jamaica has been replaced by fast growing Dutch, Dutch genetics in Jamaica.
Same with Mexico.
That kind of stuff starts getting, it starts getting pushed around and things like that,
you know, and so, you know, Cookies doesn't even grow weed.
Yeah.
They're a clothing company and a dispensary.
Yeah.
You know, they just, they just make arrangements with people to grow weed for them.
And then they have their own branded bags.
Yeah.
They control the, they control the Mylars.
They do.
They control the Mylars and the point of sale and you're buying cookie from cookie store
and Berner was at the grand opening, but they don't grow weed because that's too complicated.
They're, they're a, they're a brand.
I remember back in the day he said, we aren't into genetics. That's for nerds.
I never forgotten that when they started selling seeds, I was like, Oh,
that's cute.
Yeah. I mean, but it's like, that's the, you know, you can knock it, but obviously,
you know, he's in this for, you know, reputation and money.
Yeah.
He wants it.
I probably should be too.
But you know, but it's like, that's, I mean, that's like, you know, there's,
there's nothing wrong with money and there's nothing wrong with making a living.
Sure.
I'm just saying that like, some people like don't really give a shit at all about what
they're involved in.
They just want hits.
Yeah.
Right.
They just want to make money.
They just want to survive, you know, and, uh, and, you know, so they're opening all
these stores in these different places and all that.
And, you know, they have dozens of, you know, they, they make contracts with dozens of people.
They don't grow weed.
Yeah.
A lot of brands don't grow weed.
Most big famous brands.
Not that I'm not picking on cookie.
Most big famous Cali brands are not vertically integrated and rarely grow their own work.
Yeah.
Or they have one small grow that doesn't fill their brand and they give clones to other
growers to fill a brand and make the markup on the difference.
Yeah.
So, you know, the brands are starting to become more important than the weed.
And then, and then when you're in a situation where, uh, uh, you know, um, I just started
reading the comments again and got totally distracted.
Yeah.
When you're in a situation where you, uh, you know, you buy weed and my lars and you
can't even see or smell it most of the time.
Yeah.
Cause it's just got a bunch of opaque art on it.
It's sort of like a mystery bag.
Yeah.
You know, um, they license cuts and then they, you know, and then are they even the real
cuts?
It doesn't matter in the end, you know, it doesn't even matter.
Yeah.
And they, you know, they have different breed.
They don't even have like in-house breeders.
Yeah.
They have breeders they work with.
Like they worked with a JBZ for a while.
And who also buys seeds from other people.
Yeah.
And they, and you know, they work with compound and they work, they, they farm out all that
stuff.
Yeah.
So they're always on the lookout for different people that, you know, and it's like, well,
you know, you want to stand next to burner and smoke weed at openings and get more rep
and get your weed in the store.
You know.
I want to make sure it's clear.
A lot of that is farming out to people who farm out.
Those weren't actual people making seeds that you mentioned.
They, they were hired to make seeds and farmed it out.
Yeah.
There's, there's layers of farming.
Yeah.
There's lots of layers.
There's layers.
And there's, and you know, there's layers, there's layers to all that.
Like I contract with you to do this.
You say, you're going to do it.
You hire your friend to do this.
And it's like, it's very, you know, so there's an aspect where, you know, um,
right now, like history is mostly useful for marketing.
Yeah.
Right.
That's kind of how I see it.
Yeah.
It seems to be.
Oh, he's cutting out.
He must be in a bad spot.
Oh, I thought we had him.
So while he's cutting out, I'll go over this real quick.
After the show on our discord, Patreon, and it'll probably be, you know, an hour or two
after we're going to pick some people from a random drawing to receive the can of Bible
collection.
And that lucky person is also going to receive a medium bottle of the right reversal spray.
So after the show, we'll be doing that and getting the giveaway going for everyone on
the discord.
Patreon is a thank you for everyone who is participating in that.
And tomorrow we've got some good fights to watch too, as well.
So I'm looking forward to that.
And I'm looking forward to not so popping back in eventually here.
Hopefully.
Probably got a phone call that tends to kick us off.
Y'all mean with that wig check?
Y'all mean.
All right.
What else do I have?
If you want to join the Breeder Syndicate Patreon, go to Google, type in Breeder Syndicate
Patreon, and that's how you'll find us.
And he's back.
Thanks for stopping in, Stoney.
That's cool, man.
It's real cool.
I want to talk to you after.
I'm back.
All right.
There he is.
I live in the country.
So we've had very few technical difficulties, relatively speaking.
Yeah.
You know, that wasn't too bad.
I blame it on Matt's headdress.
Yeah, my headdress did it.
It was the yellow.
His yellow headdress or something happened.
Yeah.
You know, so I'm back.
I apologize.
I don't even know where I necessarily got cut off.
But, you know, I was trying to make the point that strain history and provenance and like
whose hands it went through.
There's a core group of us that are really interested in it.
And there's a bunch of people that are only interested in the marketing aspect.
Yes.
And while there might be a great amount of interest in the public about it.
Right.
That doesn't mean that like that leads to a bunch of people honestly trying to go forth
and figure it out.
Yeah, no.
And rarely does that because it takes time.
It takes money and time.
Friendships, trust, respect.
That would be funny if we were talking about the CFAM and I got cut off because like it
triggered some algorithm that they pay for.
Yeah, you know, and they were just like, nope, nope, cut the signal.
Yeah, cut the signal.
This is not the publicity that we're into.
Come back with not so with a hole in his head.
But, you know, I'll mention something about about about cookie just from like a personal
standpoint, like in the, you know, I'll never have a good a good collection of of cookie
cuts because there's too many things to try to hold on to already.
And I don't personally like most of them very much.
Yeah.
So it's like you can't hold everything, you know, because that's that's crazy.
So you really have to pick and choose what you personally enjoy.
Yeah.
And it's going to be interesting now because cookies is just old enough where people start
talking about like, do you have the real forum?
Is that the real O9 animal?
Yeah, yeah.
Right.
Is that who's got the thin man?
Yeah.
Who's got the and the and the the hands on that is pretty terrible.
You got that Amherst kind of cookies.
Oh, my gosh.
The Amherst thing bugs the hell out of me because I mean, that was like with the diesels
and stuff like that.
That was literally just something like Mandel just decided to add on to the story.
Yeah.
Why not?
You know, when when I gave him cuts.
Yeah.
And then all of a sudden there's Amherst sour diesel or whatever, you know?
Yeah.
So animal animal is one of the better ones, but mostly because it leans way more closer
to OG.
Yeah, I like the more gassy, you know, the gas, the gas stuff tends to have, you know,
the problem is my my biggest issue with with with cookie, you know, not to just diss the
hell out of them or anything, is that I think cookie came out in this in this era where
they got fucked hard where I G happens.
So visually appealing weed was super important.
Yeah.
And testing was starting to be super important.
And there was probably good highs in that weed that got sacrificed for better looking,
better testing weed.
Yeah.
And then they lost the high and they can't get it back.
Yeah.
Kind of.
That's kind of how I see most of cookie.
Yeah.
I mean, they were playing and they weren't breeders.
And that's what happens when you inbreed.
Yeah.
It really is what happens.
I mean, that's what happened to blueberry.
It needed some some new juice.
It needs to be outcrossed to something completely different.
Yeah.
You know, and, you know, and so but that's kind of like, like cookies and Skittles and,
you know, all that kind of stuff.
That's sort of like the start of what maybe I would consider like, modern marketing and
hyping and cannabis.
Yeah.
That's where that's where it started.
Yeah, I would have to agree.
Because before that, it's like so silly, like in the previous era before that, where
like sour diesel was king.
Nobody cared what cut of sour diesel you had.
It just had to be gas and good weed and so.
Yeah.
So all this all this shit about like which exact one it was, was semi irrelevant when
brokers were pounding on the door demanding a bunch of it.
Shit. It didn't matter if it was so much New York City diesel.
It smelled like fucking grapefruits and perfume.
Yeah, they would, you know, like it just went and so like this massive thing of tracing
down sour lineage is almost kind of new.
Yeah.
It's newer, I would say.
Yeah. And it's only been in the past like decade that we've been able to kind of put
it push everyone all together that was involved with it.
Same with OG, same with all this other stuff.
Some of the really quiet people were some of the most important and only really started
posting or talking or communicating with people to spread their part of it.
Yeah.
And that's another issue with provenance that we should mention is that often the first
and the loudest and the most consistent with their story gets their story out.
Yes.
And they might not and that might not actually be accurate.
Yeah.
But if they don't have anybody challenging them from the group.
Yeah.
It can stand uncontested for some time.
Yeah.
Like take, for instance, you know, there's multiple cuts that I think are really good
cuts that are headband.
Yeah.
But Matt and I consider to be OG cuts.
Yeah.
But they're all claimed, every single one is claimed to be original New York City headband.
Came from New York.
From New York, the original headband, the legendary one.
Yeah.
Right.
You don't know what you're talking about.
And then just in the last year or so, Manny and Swell and some others started talking
about what that cut looked like.
And it turns out it was very Fox Taley, Deasley looking skunky cut.
Yeah.
And all of a sudden people holding real New York City headband guaranteed that looks like
an OG Kush.
Yeah.
They had 10 years of nobody was contradicting them with their headband story.
Yeah.
Maybe it was.
How can you say?
Yeah.
And now they're like, well, fuck.
You know, you're a dick for bringing this up.
Yeah.
You're a dick for bringing it up all over again, even though all this is still out there
to be read.
What do you mean the guy that had it named it says this isn't it?
Yeah.
Right.
And, you know, and yeah, and like, you know, funky headband in upstate New York, people
are talking about it.
And there's two different headband cuts in California, both of which I think are really
nice, that are very OG Kush like.
Yeah.
Very OG Kush like.
Don't smell or look or anything like like like the guys from back in New York described
the original headband that they grew at.
Yeah.
But, you know, that took that only happened within the last couple of years.
Yeah.
And I want to get that to get those quotes and shit.
Yeah.
To get those quotes and to get them to confirm exactly what it was like and to get them public.
Maybe a small group of friends knew.
Yeah.
But it wasn't something that was widely disseminated.
And so when there's legends and there's very little information on them, it allows a lot
of people to just step in and say, well, this is what this is what's true.
Yeah.
You know, and, you know, so there's an aspect right there where provenance is only cared
about by a few people.
Most of it use it for marketing or sales.
And, you know, and then, you know, once it becomes popular, it's like as soon as it's
as soon as all this stuff is unpopular again, all the old stuff will go away.
Because nobody will care.
They won't take the magic power of a Sharpie and a label.
Yeah.
A lot won't remember.
They won't remember.
You know, and, you know, there's yeah.
And, you know, one of the one of the cool things, too, was even like on even on like
our discords and stuff like that, where Matt and a bunch of friends of mine gather, when
we started throwing those parties around Emerald Cup, it was for a lot of us because a lot
of us were from different parts of the country.
It was some of the first time that we got to get together and actually smoke personal
flower of each other's.
Yeah.
And put highs and flavors and visibility to like what was just talking in pictures
before.
Yeah.
You know?
Yeah.
And you also like this is for real.
Like, I mean, if you're going to go hang out at one of these events, always remember to
bring something cool and that that doesn't suck because you're going to get judged by
what you bring, no matter what, no matter what strain it is, how it's grown, you're
going to get judged.
That's how it goes.
So come correct.
That's just a little advice for people.
Yeah.
I mean, it and, you know, that's the other part of it.
It's it's it's hard to grow good weed.
Yeah.
Too.
You know, I, you know, I saw this thing where I grew, you know, our buddy Pip gave me his
version of the East Coast sour diesel when I was doing my head to head to head to head
diesel comparisons.
Yeah.
And I grew it in the sun and he came out to one of our parties and he was like, oh, my
God, dude, I think I've only grown it that nice twice.
Yeah.
And I don't think I did anything incredibly special.
I just think that the soil it was in and the sun and the the weather that year was nice
and it just came out nice.
All of the diesels came out really, really flavorful from that.
Yeah.
That year.
Yeah.
That was a good year.
And so I had a lot of good weed those couple of those those few years before COVID ruined
or whatever.
But, you know, but a lot of times it's like you hear about a bunch of this weed and you
and but you it's not like everybody gets to smoke it.
Yeah.
It's not like, you know, CSI is sending me and Matt like dozens of samples all the time
of all the things in his library to peruse.
Oh, he's not he didn't send you.
Oh, no, no, no, no, no.
Probably not.
Yeah.
Weekly.
Weekly.
Weak daily.
Yeah, the daily.
Just go check the PO box and it's there, you know, daily, daily supply.
Perfectly cured.
And so, yeah, there's people there's there's people that that were that are that are asking,
oh, you should release it.
You should you should this.
And so there's a part where it's like.
So maybe we'll maybe we'll throw out a little bit of like soapbox or pontificating here
for a second, right?
The reason why I hold strains is basically one reason.
I like them.
Yeah, that's how that's how a strain gets held by me for a long time.
And it's also this thing where, you know, it's like it's part of our heritage and history.
Right.
And so if enough people hold on to enough strains that they like, then there's a reasonably
good chance that a bunch of diversity survives.
Yeah.
And there's only so many people that are willing to do it.
Like if you're holding it, hoping that one day it ends up being super valuable, you'll
probably be bitter.
Yeah, we actually saw a case of this where a friend at the time finally got a hold of
an old cut.
And he thought because he got a hold of this old cut that it was going to make him rich
and or famous.
And it didn't turn out that way.
He was going to be able to make seeds and there was going to be various things that
happened with it.
And it was going to like unlock.
He was going to be leveling up, leveling up.
That's a good way of putting it.
Yeah.
And it didn't work, you know, and if you really loved it and it was just about it,
then that wouldn't have mattered.
Yeah, none of it.
Because, you know, if I was trying to like if I was trying to gain a bunch of reps from
my seeds and a bunch of money from my seeds, then like all my breeding is a total failure
and I'd be so pissed.
Yeah.
Because everybody would be like, oh, people stole it from me and did this with it and
did that with it or whatever.
But if your goal is to preserve it and you want people to smoke better weed.
Right.
Like the guy getting all pissed, thinking that like I'd be all pissed off because I
was beating him to the punch.
Like I I want people to smoke better weed.
Yeah.
I think diesels and, you know, and those kind of plants are better weed than a lot of what's
been bred with in the last few years.
So, you know, I'm happy that there's weed out.
I want good pot.
Yeah, I want good pot to use to make better pot to then make better pot than other people
used to make better pot.
Exactly.
And eventually everyone's going to forget who the fuck you are.
Yeah.
I mean, most of all, nobody after 100 years, dude, most or even after 30.
I mean, every now, Neville might be really famous, but most of the stuff that he bred
is bred into other things and his contribution and name to it is lost, even though it's
probably the backbone of a ton of stuff we work with.
He's famous to like a few of us nerds, and that's about it anymore.
And that's unfortunate because he should have that that special place.
Right.
See, so there's all kinds of people that I'm chatting about this.
They're like, please, let's do it.
Please, let's do it.
Release.
Do this kind of thing.
And I can do this.
You can do this thing where you could be cool and you could maybe offer that.
Right.
But then you're a capitalistic sellout piece of shit.
Yeah.
Like the only people that are allowed to be capitalistic sellout pieces of shit are people
that actually are that way.
Yeah.
And they're just immune from it.
They don't care.
Yeah.
They just don't respond.
They just they just they're just like, whatever.
And they're just like, oh, yeah, like I just proved you're exactly like me.
Yeah.
Right.
But most people who are listening to this probably are here because they like good wheat.
Yeah.
You know, like that's that's the weird thing.
And it's like, I don't have like, you know, as Matt's well aware, like there's good friends
of ours in our circle that have my strengths.
Just because they're good friends.
Yeah, just not, you know, everybody else.
Yeah.
Just not you.
You know, but I can't.
I can't.
I can't.
Then people would say I'm using you.
Can't happen.
Well, I mean, there's there's there's aspects to it, too, and stuff.
And it's not even so much like, you know, life and covid and it's been an odd.
In the end, really, that's what exactly what would happen.
That's exactly what happens.
It just can't.
It just, you know, one of those things.
And that's the way I look at it.
Like people don't believe that I actually gave that cut to our homie to make hybrids
with just so more people could try it.
Yeah.
And I don't get anything for it.
No.
Where like a lot of times people don't understand that, like for a lot of people that hold cuts,
they demand any other breeder working with it, pay them royalties or give them seed or
make some kind of arrangement to do it.
There's a lot of like secret horse trading that goes on.
So people want to get in positions where like they're the controller of the cut.
Yeah.
Right.
And I just gave it to him because he's my good homie and I know he'll back it up for
me and he won't pour it out.
And I was like, make as many hybrids as you want.
And a bunch of people are growing good weed and enjoying it.
So that's nice.
You know, but that does that is that beneficial to me?
No.
No.
You know, like not at least in a financial sense.
No.
You know, but but people can't conceive that you would have something valuable and just
share it.
Yeah.
I mean, you share all your vibrators.
You're cool about it.
So they can share.
It's the it's the you know, once once they're no longer good enough for me and I have to
upgrade, you know, hey, got to share.
You got to share.
And so there's there's an aspect where it's like, I know I'm not.
The only reason why I threw that out there is because like isn't isn't for people to
be like, oh, he should have done this or this person should have done that.
It's more that like, you know, not everything has to be about money.
Yeah.
Right.
Not all the time.
Now we do.
Everybody needs money.
Right.
And it's like, so there's nothing wrong with selling.
I don't think there's anything inherently wrong with selling clones or selling seeds
or selling good flower or like anything like that, because it's like you're trading on
value.
The problem becomes is that just because of humans, a bunch of people are going to scam
you.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's really what's going to happen.
And so then it's like, I don't know, like, you know, I think I would like there to be
better weed more often.
Yeah.
I think the current craze for the last four or five years has led us kind of far away
from better weed.
It would be nice if better weed came back around.
It would.
So still around, it just got to get in the right circles.
Well, the problem is, that's exactly what I'm talking about, where it's like it's
always in certain circles.
Yeah.
It's just the public.
How do you get the public to have it?
How do you get more people to access it?
How do you get young people that listens every week and loves our fucking show or something
and they would die to try it and there's nowhere for them to go?
Yeah.
It's a conundrum.
It is a conundrum.
You know, because there's nice people, you know, that are younger and into it and hyped
up and would love to try these different things that were talked about and all that different
types of stuff.
It's like there's not an easy, verifiable way to figure out what to do that's right.
You know, though, I kind of look at the Discord chat as a good way to meet the people, like
the next generation of people that are really passionate about this.
They shine through real obviously because they're the ones who won't stop asking questions
about genetics.
What's in this?
What did you use of this?
What did you see in this?
I fucking love it.
Most people think you would probably get annoyed after a while, but nerding out like that,
that is one way.
Oh, yeah.
People sharing all those.
I mean, the reason why I know that like people are finding a bunch of cool stuff in the LA
by D is because people send me stuff and smoke reports and pictures all the time.
Yeah.
And they're pumped.
Yeah, I just I spent last month smoking the, what was it, the LA cross to the triangle,
my buddy Space Invader and King Cultivars.
And that shit was fire.
Fire.
I loved it.
Yeah, so that's good.
Yeah.
You know, but it's like it's it's there's a way where how do you how do you figure that
out? Because, you know, I don't know it like this whole show was kind of based on that.
It's rambled a bit, but it's like provenance ethics, how clone trading started, where it
is right now.
Because I don't know.
I don't even remember.
I don't even think five years ago people were offering up a bunch of clones on on IG very
often.
Yeah, they were.
But it's just there's so many more and there's so many more trying to say they have XYZ rare
cut because it just wasn't people weren't as interested in XYZ rare cut from the 70s
or 80s.
It's just there is that demand now for whatever reason.
So now, yeah, now there's tons of new people that are jumping in and they want access to
all these various old things.
And there's clone dealers that have, you know, that are offering up.
I mean, wasn't there like some shit where this guy raised like there was like one hundred
and eighty thousand dollars or something from like RS11.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
Something like that.
Yeah.
And they sold like, you know, they sold more like a thousand dollars a cut or something.
Yeah.
You know, so, you know, and back in the OG Kush days, it's like, remember Resin's joke
of two hundred fifty thousand dollars.
For the Louis the 13th OG.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Because there was this one guy that had it and it was like a marketing thing, you know,
I mean.
Yeah.
Um, uh, I had a dude that told me that they paid fifty five thousand dollars for the for
a haze cut from Florida.
Because they were selling they were selling a business in their regard.
You were going to be able to grow that and hustle it to a market.
In fairness, that cut does have amazing extracts that you're talking about.
It's pretty fucking good.
Yeah.
You know, but I just mean the sense where they're like, oh, you're going to be able
to grow this and sell it to New York and you're going to make X amount of money and dah, dah,
dah, dah.
So if you want this business and we have it, you have to buy it.
And so there's it's like this weird thing of like, are you a hoarder?
Are you a share?
Are you with this?
Are you that?
How do you how do you navigate that?
Yeah.
Because now we've been talking about a bunch of stuff and we talk about pop that we love.
A bunch of people ask us about pop that we love.
Yep.
You know, this one dude said RS 11 made a million and it was dirty with viruses.
It was.
That sucks.
You know, and now people are popping up with all kinds of crazy numbers, you know, of people
selling access to various clones.
Yep.
We hear about it all the time because people message us and are like, hey, should we trust
this person?
And like, I don't even like answering that shit because it just makes more people mad
when I answer that shit.
So yeah.
Well, yeah, it's that I mean, it's it's hard to because then it's like if you if you tell
the truth and you're not very trustworthy of that person's provenance, then they think
you're pulling money out of their wallet.
Yeah.
So they're pissed off at you.
Yeah.
You know, yeah, people used to sell people used to sell the Skittles, you know, people
used to sell the OG the sound like it's it's it's ongoing.
It's been ongoing for a long time.
It's just social media made it easier.
I think.
OK, so we've gone pretty heavily through the provenance part.
And I do you want to talk any about any of the new potential ideas that we have coming
up?
We're probably going to do the not so story time finally.
Yeah, we can chat about we can chat about all that.
So as people are may or may not be aware, we have our we have our our discord back and
our and, you know, various things.
And and we've been putting a bunch of content, old content and some new content up on YouTube.
Right.
Yeah.
For people to chat about.
And so we thought rather than having like these long winded rambling conversations every
week that go in a million different directions at times, we might be able to do like some
more focused stuff.
Yeah, because a lot of times in the comments, people ask to get hella focused on certain
things.
Yeah, but it's hard to go off.
Yeah, but it's hard to go off on those tangents.
Yeah.
So what we're thinking about doing is Matt's going to do some of it, but I'm going to do
a couple of things.
One of them is not so story time, as Matt likes to call it, where people get to listen
to me ramble about various stories or various historical bits or or funny things.
Yeah.
Right.
One of them might just be a five or 10 minute discourse on a whole bunch of different strains.
Yep.
And I'll one and I'll five this, that whatever it might just be like the collected knowledge
of this is what we know, you know, because a lot of times people ask us about stuff,
too, and we've covered it on previous shows.
But it might have been a year ago, you know, halfway through one of them.
Yeah, it could be three years ago.
It is me doing it solo.
And I think it's something me and not so covered.
It happens all the time now.
Yeah.
So, you know, those things would go, you know, and it would basically be like a conversation
starter and a place that people could go listen to something for five or 10 or 15 minutes
and sort of get like, this is the best we know.
And here's some educated guesses.
So like strain history, story time, and then maybe a third thing that I've been thinking
about, which is like gross styles and, you know, and trade offs.
Yeah.
What are you trying to do?
How are you trying to do it?
A lot of people that are that that are trying to give grow knowledge or trying to sell a
certain method.
Or hydroponic nutrients or whatever it may be.
Whatever it might be nutrients, amendments, biology, you know, a way of life.
And they want to convince you that if you just follow this path, like, you know, Christianity
or whatever, Buddhism, you know, this will give you all the answers.
Yeah.
And life is rarely like that.
With growing, there's a lot of trade offs.
Sure is, you know, and so not every growing style is suitable for every growing, you know,
every growing goal.
Yeah.
Hold on real quick.
People are asking if we have to change anything with Patreon.
No, there is no new one.
There is you don't have to do anything different.
The Discord, it kicks you automatically into it.
Most people that are already a part of it already there.
If not, you just go back to Patreon and click connect to Discord, disconnect and then hit
connect and it'll kick you into the room and that's it.
Just got to be a part of the Patreon.
And we now have three different levels for Patreon and the third one's a pretty cool
one.
So go check that out too.
Yeah.
And it's basically just like Matt and I like taking full control over the process.
You know, weed partnerships are hard.
Yeah, they are.
They can be very complicated.
It can be complicated with two people.
So yeah.
And all that.
And so, so, you know, there's people are saying, oh, follow Lucas formula to the whole
that's that's some of this.
Some of the stuff is like how.
But yeah, it'll be it'll be chats about all kinds of stuff.
Lighting, nutrient, greenhouses, styles, trade offs.
And some are going to be solo with not so you don't have to hear me say yeah, every
five minutes.
It's never gonna be solo with me to where you might just fast forward the whole fucking
thing.
But you might even you might even have a situation where people been asking about like fuck ups.
Yeah.
Um, you know, so there might be there might be some aspect of like, you know, where did
you really flail?
Yeah, I've got plenty of stories.
I got yeah, I got plenty of stories of that too.
And that between that and just and friends and seeing everyone around me growing for
25 years.
You've seen lots of failures, lots of mistakes.
Yep.
You know, so.
So yeah, I mean, we're gonna we're gonna be trying to be doing some like shorter and
some more medium term content.
You know, all that type of stuff.
It's basically just like trying to share culture.
Yeah, I share info.
And if you're a part of the Patreon discord, like we have a $5 $15 and then the $15 $50
one now on the 15 and 50 we're doing like small private group sessions.
We're going to be trying to do that once a month where me and not so sit down with maybe
five people in a group and just shoot the shit and get more personal than we ever can
get in these larger groups.
So check that out too.
Yeah.
It'll be fun.
You can ask not so about all his dirty, dirty, dirty sex nights like I do every night.
You know, Matt is it's hard for Matt to think about much else.
It's that face.
It's that hair.
It just goes right back to it.
You know, it's mostly just trying to throw me off whatever I'm talking about and have
me stutter and and stumble while he laughs.
He's uncrackable.
He's uncrackable.
I don't know if I'm uncrackable or anything like that.
But, you know, generally speaking, ethics and cannabis is weird.
Providence is weird because we come from, you know, a shady gray area, illegal, quasi
legal, you know, thing where it's basically just about your word.
And, you know, people were either there or they weren't there.
And and so, you know, there's a lot we see a lot of scams.
Yeah.
And one of the ways that Matt has become so popular on Instagram and other platforms is
by trying to expose said scams.
Yeah, that's where my my autism twinging, though, just fucking drives me nuts, you know.
And so everybody that everybody that he tries to expose ends up hating him.
And then that trail gets longer and longer.
They got an army, like an army of haters, and then some of their fans end up becoming
haters.
And so, you know, we just want to give out real information.
And, you know, too, when it comes to the story time or when it comes to strain history or
whatever it might be, people think that we might be threatened by better information
that comes out or more information that adds levels of detail or might change perspective.
Not at all.
The whole point of all this stuff is to start conversations and to start people
chattering and to start thinking.
And if people come out of the woodwork with verifiable information that makes the history
deeper and richer, like rather than being insulted, that's cool.
Yeah, that's awesome.
I don't that's that's to be, you know, so some people come out and it's like, oh, they're
like, oh, you can prove I'm a liar.
No, you're trying to tell stories from an inherently shadowy world.
Yeah, where not everyone agrees and people argue about everything.
Yeah.
And you're trying to give some form of reliable history that's as close to what you can get
is what you can get.
But there could have been somebody there that adds an angle to it that you didn't see.
Yeah.
And so that's kind of what history is, right?
It's like science.
You build on what you know.
And when something comes along to change part of what you know, you add that into the fabric
and keep going.
Rather than being discrediting, it's like it's a chance to sort of like crowdsource
information.
That's at least how I see it.
No, I definitely see it that way as well.
I mean, if info comes out, we end up being wrong about something.
I'd much rather correct myself and be right than continue to be wrong.
And I'm much happier knowing more info.
That's one of those things about being a nerd.
More info is great, even if it's counter to what you think.
Yeah, I mean, like, I understand everybody likes history until it bumps up against their
prejudices.
Yeah.
You know, science too.
You know, it's like they prove something and it goes against your religion or your belief
set or your this or your that or whatever.
And you're like, no.
You know?
Oh, also, before we get done, all the websites are working.
Right.
Seats.nl, right.
Seatco.com and right.
Seats.com.
No matter which one you use, it all takes you to the site.
After this on the Patreon, Discord, Discord, Patreon, we're going to give this set of the
cannibals away to one lucky person and a medium sized bottle of reversal spray.
So after that, if you're part of the Patreon, it'll probably be an hour after the show before
I even start going through the names and adding them into the randomizer thing.
So if you want to join, you have about an hour to join after this.
Be a part of the giveaway.
Yeah, I think that's really it.
That is pretty much it.
Yeah.
I mean, as always, I really appreciate the couple hours everybody gives on Friday night.
Yeah.
You know, sorry for the brief technical difficulties, but you can always reach out to us.
You can always chat with us more on Discord.
You can always, you can always message me on IG.
I try to be responsive.
I get buried sometimes, but I try to be responsive to everybody.
You can join the Discord and get some cool stuff and chat with us.
And you can also give us ideas of what you want to hear more about.
Yeah, we're taking a lot of input from the Patreon and Discord people on different
episode ideas, on the single episode ideas.
Like I said, it's up on YouTube.
It's up on every platform.
Be sure to look for the 2.0, because if you're only following Breeder Syndicate and not Breeder
Syndicate 2.0, you're not going to get any of the new episodes.
So make sure you're following 2.0.
Be sure to like, share, subscribe, review, all that stuff.
It helps us.
So please share and subscribe.
There might be stuff where it's like, you know, we think it's, we think we've talked
it to death, but a bunch of people want us to chat about it because they want it to be
in more detail.
And then we'll be like, okay, we will.
Yeah.
So it is responsive in that regard.
Yeah.
We try to take everyone's input into this.
But anyway.
People keep asking, how do you get into this Discord?
You go to Patreon, you go Google Breeder Syndicate Patreon.
You join the Patreon.
And once you've joined the Patreon, it'll give you a thing that says connect to Discord.
You click that and it'll take you right in.
So that's all it takes.
That's it.
Fantastic.
All right.
Everybody enjoy your Friday night.
Thank you so much.
Yep.
See a bunch of you tonight.
Peace.
Want more Breeder Syndicate?
Be sure to check out our Patreon by going to Google and searching Breeder Syndicate
Patreon.
We have a secret Discord where we are available at most times and interact daily.
There are a lot of perks to be had there.
So check it out.
Need seeds?
Check out RiotSeeds.com where you can get our seeds and our reversal spray for making
your own feminized seeds.
