Chris.
And just for further context, so you actually, and so Lou Elizondo came out and was disappointed
in the, I believe it's the A-O-I-M-S-G.
And I saw Tim, you had similar concerns.
Do you want to T-S up for that?
Sure.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's kind of funny.
I think, I guess concerns as much as this, we talk about not having expectations, but
this is what I kind of expected.
And people are wondering what's going on.
Like, why have you got, now you've got this really broad, robust amendment, but then you've
got the government, the DOD coming out of the blue with this other really watered down
kind of expectation of what they're going to achieve.
And people are like, what the hell's going on?
Is it the coverup?
Is it the, whatever?
No, it's the government.
It's the government.
The government is happening.
And you've heard me probably say this, both on Twitter, and I may have said it last time
I was on your show, is people are getting a crash course in how the government actually
works.
And it's not pretty.
And I hate saying that, but, and I think to some degree, the UFO community, some of the
more well-known researchers or authors at times have done a bit of a disservice because
they've given this picture that the government is capable of this coordinated effort in anything.
And that's not really the case.
Probably one of the best examples to give you an idea of what's going on here.
And I talked to this a little bit about with the guys and girl Chrissy last night.
Did anybody read the psychology today article that was published?
Was it yesterday or the day before?
Micah did.
Where was it published?
Okay.
Then that missed.
No, I missed it.
Okay.
Well, there you go.
UFO Twitter, you're dropping the ball.
There was a exceptional article done in psychology today about UAP and what it could mean in
terms of new science and everything.
The author of that article was Dr. Eric Haseltine.
Dr. Haseltine is a brilliant man.
He once headed up Disney's Imagineering.
And then he was the chief science and technology officer for the office of director of national
intelligence, ODNI.
He was essentially the chief technology officer for the entire intelligence community.
So very brilliant guy for a long time.
He wrote a great article there, but he also wrote a great book a couple of years ago and
I loved it.
Now, don't get me wrong.
It's kind of right up in my alley.
It may get too technical for some people, but it's called the spy in Moscow station.
It tells this fantastic story.
And if you want to understand how the government works, it's a great insight into how it works.
In the short of the long there, this is a very true, real story of events that happened.
In 1978, the NSA discovered a Soviet bug inside the embassy in Moscow.
Okay.
When I say discovered it, they found it, they removed it, they physically had it.
It was an RF receiver hidden in a chimney inside the embassy.
They said that the Soviets are listening to all of your communications.
They told the CIA this and the state department.
And in fact, the CIA had had Russian agents killed during this time because of it.
And the CIA and the state department said, we don't believe you.
And they had it in front of them.
Like they could have showed it to them.
We don't believe you.
The NSA pushed it and there was this big turf war.
I'm not going to get in the weeds of this book, but you really get an idea of how it
works, where you're like, why are they fighting this?
Like, isn't everybody supposed to be on the same team?
Why is there this resistance here into this idea that the Russians are spying on us?
And the CIA was adamant about it.
And the state department was adamant about it to the point where they got a executive
directive telling the NSA, stop mentioning it.
Stop talking about it.
Because we don't want people, we don't believe you.
And this went on for five years until the NSA was eventually, by order of President
Reagan, allowed to go in, remove a lot of the property that was in the embassy, found
the bugs, discovered and said, they've been listening to you this whole time.
So for five years, from the point they found it, for five years, all right?
There was so much resistance to this and so much craziness.
And even at a point when the NSA had difficulty finding these bugs, they actually thought
that maybe the CIA removed them so that they wouldn't find them to cause friction.
In fact, when the NSA technician went to do the inventory, the CIA tried to get him drunk
and had Russian prostitutes because they wanted to know what he was doing there because it
was so compartmentalized.
It was that point a code word option where only the NSA knew.
Now, picture that in perspective to UAP.
Okay?
Picture that in perspective that now, you know, adversaries spying on you is a real
thing.
They all know that's a real thing.
It goes on.
We spy on other countries, they spy on us.
But imagine the resistance to the idea that the Russians or the Soviet Union was spying
inside the embassy when you had the proof and evidence.
So the US government is a sprawling complex.
And now what you're seeing is that the UAP subject is not going to go away per se, and
they're kind of acknowledging it.
So you're going to see a lot of infighting here, as in who controls the topic.
And that's one of the things in that hole that caused so much friction between the CIA
and NSA is whose job is it?
They all say, well, NSA, their job isn't security, so screw them.
And it's like, yeah, but this is going on.
And so you're going to see this now.
And you're going to see this now with this idea, OK, well, fine, if you're going to make
if you're not going to let this go away and somebody's going to look at it, well, then
it's our job.
But then you're going to have other agencies that are like, no, this is my job.
Now, others are going to say it's my job, because at the end of the day, nobody wants
to get embarrassed and say, oh, yes, this is really something.
When it when it could, when technically it should have been their job.
And if nothing else, I think probably one of the most fascinating things for me, maybe
it's not as frustrating because it's fascinating to me to watch this process is I can't
think of a more complex problem.
To watch a government have to solve and especially one like the U.S.
government, because it's everything is so segmented and compartmentalized where
different agencies fall under different branches, they have different jobs.
But you look at the UAP subject.
That is something that is government wide.
And it is a mysterious problem that, frankly, the U.S.
government is not equipped to handle.
And so it's interesting to watch how are they going to handle that?
Because the DOD, I think a lot of people, when they saw that I'm going to attempt the
acronym, I've forgotten it from memory.
I don't want it. You know, they cried foul that they were only going to look into
military ranges and ranges under military control.
Well, that's because by federal law, the Department of Defense only has limited power.
They don't have the power to operate on U.S.
soil, except under very, very strict circumstances.
So they don't have authority.
So then goes into, well, some of this authority bleeds into the Coast Guard.
Some of this bleeds into the FAA.
Some of this bleeds into Homeland Security.
Some of this bleeds into the FBI.
All everyone I just named all fall under different executive branches.
So when the secretary of defense can't tell the FBI what to do, can't tell the FAA what
to do, likewise, none of them can tell.
But to comprehensively look at that, you've got to get all of these agencies that aren't
equipped to look at it.
They don't work together as is.
And in many instances, they work against each other.
They're in competition with each other.
But they've got to work together to try to solve that.
Now, tackle on the fact that every taboo that you can think of in anything, any
conversation that you've had about the subject with anybody who's not from the UFO
community, maybe they've just seen the New York Times article or something or they've
read it at excellent and informative people on the debrief and you're trying to explain
it to them. And they're they're like, oh, that's B.S.
Those that's now imagine the government just multiply that.
So you're going to have people that are like, this is B.S.
The infighting and squabbling.
And even if, let's say, the Gillibrand amendment passes, who what office is going to
take that authority is something to really look at.
But I did I said that, you know, when I said my concerns, it was more of a people are
about to get a crash course into this UFO problem.
And then because of how robust, how structured that amendment was, it wouldn't shock
me to see not just the D.O.D., but you're going to see all these other people be like, oh,
hell, we're starting one, too, because we're not going to be outdone.
And everybody's going to try to muscle in this.
And it's going to end up in this really interesting dynamic where a year ago people
were upset because the government wasn't taking the topic seriously at all.
Now, fast forward, we're upset because there's too many people saying they're going to
look into it. Well, here's here's my question on that, though, and I think the reason, at
least lately, the reason why people got upset is because there seemed to have been a
message coming primarily from Lou saying this AMSG office is undercutting and
undermining the Gillibrand amendment.
And you also compared it to you said in a tweet that it's administrative terrorism.
And so people heard that.
They're like, what's going on?
And then when you dig deep into it, when you just simply dig into it, you find out that,
oh, wait a second, the DOD has no jurisdiction over this this bill.
So if this bill becomes law, they really can't do anything.
And it seems by the statement by Kathleen Hicks at this office that the DOD is creating,
they're doing it without anyone's permission.
They're doing it just because they can't.
And I think it's sort of this idea of, well, they're not going to be the only ones who
look at this. We're going to look at it, too.
And so I guess my question is, why is this administrative terrorism if this office really
can't do anything to if this law passes, if the Gillibrand amendment goes through, which
maybe we find out tonight if it could have happened already as we were on the show.
But if that could you explain a little bit as to why that's sort of the feeling with with
this new office?
Because six months ago, we would have been all aboard for this.
We would have been filled with an office like this.
And and it seems like for me, more data is more data.
I don't care where I'm getting it from.
If we're going to get more data from different sections of the government, great.
Maybe we can paint a better picture with that data or we could get at least a little bit
more clarity for the American people as to what exactly we're dealing with here.
So so, yeah, I mean, can you touch on that a little bit?
Sure. Yeah. No.
And it's one of those things where I said it and didn't realize after and until I said it.
It's you on Twitter and people freak out.
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. The term administrative terrorism and anybody that's worked in government, even at
the local level, is very familiar with that term.
We used it all the time because administrative terrorism is just that.
It's bureaucratic stuff that slows things down.
You know, you're getting ready to run out the door to go to the mall and somebody says,
wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, we got to inventory all of your clothes.
And you're like, what the this is administrative terrorism.
And so that term is, you know, anybody who's running government has heard that term, in
fact, used it frequently.
So so please don't take anything away from that.
Is that being, I guess, analogous with terrorism?
Right. Right. Yeah.
But but I mean, it does make it sound as if, though, you know, like like this is a bad
thing. This office is not good for the topic.
And at least that's the way it seemed.
It seemed like that was. And that's why UFO Twitter sort of rallied around, like letting
their senators know, hey, this office isn't good enough.
Like we need more. We want the Gillibrand amendment to make sure that that passes into
the new NDA. But it's you know, you know what I'm saying?
I just I think part of there's a part of a little bit of fear here that.
What do you feel like you want to be used to construct a narrative or message like that
was going to be like a follow up question in a second was, is it is there anything with
this amendment or with these new offices that you might see as like.
As maybe not good for this topic, is there anything that we're just not reading
correctly or we're not ciphering properly, is there anything in the language of the bill
that maybe worries you that, hey, this is actually going to do worse for the topic, not
better?
Well, I think the biggest concern and I think that's what Lou Elizondo I haven't read
everything he said or listened to it.
But I think that when he was upset about it is because he's been in that system and
understands kind of what's going on.
And the other thing is that it is everyone is correct in saying that the release of that
information very much was it had a lot to do with the Gillibrand
amendment, you know, the timing of it and everything.
I think everybody could recognize that even though Kathleen Hicks had said we're going to
do this, you know, I believe the timeline initially was six months and it's been five
months and they come out with it. The government does nothing early.
They do nothing.
Nothing. So you think it was you think the ODNI, this was a direct response to the
introduction of the Gillibrand amendment?
Sure, I think that the phone calls, phones started ringing when that went out and it hit
the airways and everything, people were saying, hey, what are we doing with our stuff?
What are we doing with our stuff? We don't want to get caught with our pants down.
What are we doing? In addition to the fact that you've got the Office of the Inspector
General digging into it, too.
So there's a lot of CYA going on.
A lot of people are trying to cover their ass and they're trying to say, you know, again,
like I mentioned, nobody wants to get caught with their pants down, where they haven't been
doing everything. So the idea that ODNI is going to take over this massive office and have
all this jurisdiction and then prove all these things that the DOD hasn't been doing well
does not sit well with the DOD.
So they're like, whoa, if nothing else, we need to know what's going on within our
jurisdictional bounds so that we don't look like a bunch of clowns here with no answers
if this other agency has answers.
Now, beyond that, Tim, do you think there's actual information that they're trying to get a
handle on and bury prior to the Gillibrand amendment?
Do you think that's a possibility or are we really just talking about, hey, we're just
trying to cover our asses here?
It really depends on what the executive offices think.
Now, I can say that if it was going out of the Undersecretary of Defense for Intelligence
Office, which is Lou Elizondo's former office, I think you've seen the pushback that he's
offered. I think he is a good indication of how he feels they view the topic and how their
reports, their analysis and going into it, you know, going back to something Micah said
earlier, if you go with this expectation of what you're going to find, you often find it.
And so the expectation in that office, by all accounts from everyone that I've spoken to,
is that they want to find BS, that this is not something that they need to be exerting time,
effort and money on. And so therefore, the idea that that's going to be their outcome, it
could be very highly likely because that's what they don't.
I think the Department of Defense at large has really made it abundantly clear, not direct
statements because they don't like talking about it, that they don't want to talk about
this. They don't want to deal with this.
Whereas some other agencies do.
You know, ODNI has taken the lead.
The Navy has taken the lead.
So one of the concerns there is when in having these fragmentations.
So you see that the DOD has their UAP office.
Well, ODNI is like, screw it.
We're still going forward.
And Space Force says, hold my beer.
I think the Army, the Army is my favorite because the Army is like, and I come from a big
Army family, so I can say it's like everybody I know from the Army is just like, hey, man,
if we're going to strip club, you're driving, I'm down.
You know, like they're, don't matter to me, man.
But the problem is there is that each one of those compartments will control their
information. And then the topic of UAP, you won't have this centralized focal point
office. Instead, you'll have, you know, a pilot had a sighting and reported it to the Navy
office or the ODNI office.
And do we have any satellite data?
Well, we've got to go to talk to Geospatial or the NRO or the NSA to try to get the SIGINT
or electronic intelligence on it.
And then those agencies don't necessarily always hand over what they have.
Quite frankly, they often don't.
And so it's this idea that who has, is there going to be a central office that has the
authority, power and muscle to really use all of the resources the United States
government has behind it? Because whenever we do put all those resources, whether it's
terrorism or fighting wars, they tend to be pretty successful and they have a lot at their
disposal. But the problem is these things are not centralized and they're not under one
umbrella authority outside of the president.
You need the president.
If the president would step forward and say, no, damn it.
Just same example I gave you at the NSA CIA with the Moscow thing.
It took the president of the United States to tell the NSA, no, go do this.
And I don't care what they say.
So I think that's part of the concern is that if you've got a ODNI office, you've got a
DOD office and you've got these other offices, is that they will each be examining the
topic from whatever is within their purview.
And when one doesn't share with the other, then it's never really, you're going to have
MUFON and all these other things.
You're going to have these competing. It's going to turn into UFO Twitter in the
government.
That sounds terrible.
Micah.
I've got 17 seconds left, so we're going to have to roll over into the top of the hour
because I have plenty to say. And again, Tim really is kind of giving us the
full scope of the issues that government is facing right now to an extent.
I've got to kind of sympathize with any element within the government or if we even want
to refer broadly to the military having to be tasked with trying to resolve an issue
that let's face it, they've been looking at for more than half a century and haven't been
able to resolve. When we talk about how, as Tim mentioned, some agencies seem to be more
willing to chime in on this and more willing to weigh in on the topic like the Navy has
been, whether that is necessarily by choice or it is by virtue of the fact that other
agencies simply won't.
The Air Force dealt with this in the longest running systematic military study by the U.S.
government, Project Blue Book, between the 1950s, early 50s and 1969.
And they remained stone silent at every opportunity for decades thereafter, with a couple
of notable exceptions after the closure of Project Blue Book.
Again, at the request of congressmen and women back in the 1990s, because there was a lot
of public interest in the Roswell crash at New Mexico.
And this in part due to books that were being published on it, television shows like
Unsolved Mysteries that were kind of reinvigorating the debate.
A lot of people were like, what's really going on here?
And so the Air Force kind of had to get back into the game there for a time.
They produced a couple of official documents and did their own investigations, which
offered not one, but several different explanations for parts of the Roswell mystery,
which raised a lot of questions for people.
One being, OK, well, which version is the definitive narrative?
Because they had said that everything from crash test dummies to charred bodies in an
airplane crash to Project Mogul and high altitude balloons that were used during the Cold
War. I mean, a range of different things put together over several years constituted what
was remembered or misremembered as the Roswell event.
The reason that that's important is because people look at that and they go, well, first
of all, which is the narrative or how can we take this seriously, given that we first
heard, of course, that it was a flying disk, then it was a weather balloon.
Then they say it was a Mogul balloon.
We know that they had lied several times.
So how do we know they're telling the truth now?
Now, in my opinion, having reviewed Roswell, you know, again, I, like a lot of UFO
researchers, have become less and less enchanted with that case as time goes on, because
if you really look at it again, I refer back to the FBI single page document on that.
It was actually from, I believe, let's see, let's refer to the newspapers.
I keep them right here so I can look at all this.
Right. July 8th, 1947.
I believe that on the same date, the FBI document said it appears that a high altitude
balloon was recovered.
They were reporting that in the FBI's document a day before it appears in the other
newspapers. And it's actually stated we had a weather balloon in our possession.
So it seemed the FBI already been tipped off.
And again, the historical documents seem to pretty clearly show there probably wasn't
as much to Roswell as it once had been thought.
But again, it's an interesting point to look at in terms of history and what it takes to
get an agency like the Air Force back into the game.
It's no wonder they don't want to have to deal with this right now.
And people say, where's the Air Force been?
Why is the Navy doing this? The Air Force never wanted to have to get back into this
game. And here again, I do sympathize with almost any element within government who is
tasked with having to do what the Air Force tried for almost two decades.
They do and weren't able to achieve.
And so the thing about bringing this around to the Gillibrand Amendment, you know, I'm
not particularly surprised by what has been outlined with the new A.O.I.
MSG. And, yeah, we'll just refrain from further jokes about the name.
But almost everybody, Tim Burchett in Congress actually got up and made a statement
about this recently. And even he said, I don't know where they got that name from, but
everybody's joking about this name.
You know, my theory would be that it may be intentionally unpronounceable and obviously
forgettable with the hope that people won't be able to pronounce it.
People won't remember it and they won't focus on it and worry about what they're doing
because they can't pronounce the name.
You know, the UFO thing that they've got up there.
But I wasn't really surprised by what it actually is, according to the DOD release from
last Tuesday, what was outlined, because essentially all those points were in Kathleen
Hicks' memorandum that coincided with the release of the ODNI report back on June 25th.
You know, again, she's saying we are very concerned with these incursions on our
military airspace. We want to try and be proactive with looking at these and dealing
with these. We want to collect information about them.
They never said, you know, we're going to look at everything that happens anywhere in
the skies. And again, to Tim's earlier point, they're not able to.
There are jurisdictional issues with their ability to even do that.
And so something we have to take into consideration with all of this is that according
to what Hicks outlined in her memorandum, if we look at the ODNI report delivered by the
task force, they state in the report, this is to guide future policy and future efforts
on this issue. They seem to have done essentially exactly what they said that they would.
But the surprise had been that, as Tim pointed out also, Congress, you know, again,
Senator Gillibrand specifically got into this a little bit earlier, outlined a much more
comprehensive plan, one that would be both more costly and likely would have to require
on the assets and abilities of many different agencies.
Again, this would be a much more elaborate plan.
And I think that the DOD looking at this, this is pure speculation on my part, but it's
very much in line with what my colleague has said here.
They're seeing this and they're going, whoa, whoa, whoa, hold on.
Let's hit this off at the pass because we don't want to have to mess with anything as
elaborate as what they're proposing in this amendment.
And so they launched this investigative agency.
And it's interesting now to see how those who have co-sponsored the proposed amendment
to the Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 2022 are responding to this.
You know, Gillibrand has spoken about it, but she's been a bit, let's say that she's been
a bit vague. Marco Rubio issued a statement to Air Force magazine.
He had said, look, you know, I support the government in looking into these aerial
incursions and these mystery objects.
So I think that the sense, at least from what I'm getting among members in Congress right
now, is that this may not be what we wanted.
If this is what we get, you know, we'll go with it.
But obviously, Lou Elizondo and many others and, of course, UFO Twitter, they've expressed
their concerns because, no, this wouldn't be the comprehensive plan that's outlined in the
Gillibrand amendment. This is going to be very limited in scope.
We don't have any assurance that there will be, again, annual reports delivered to Congress,
semi-annual reporting updates.
And again, will the public have any information provided?
Now, strange and paradoxical, though it may sound, there's a part of me that hopes that
whatever comes of all this, we won't be handed all the answers because, again, at the end
of the day, we talk about this all the time at the debrief.
We got into this because it's a fun topic.
We do want to know the truth.
I think we can handle the truth, but I doubt the government has all the answers.
And a part of me still enjoys the quest.
I enjoy the process of looking into this and trying to understand what it's all about and
hopefully applying science toward it.
So it's anybody's guess where it'll go from here.
And we may find out within a few hours.
But again, I'm not surprised.
And I certainly hope that there are going to be a few surprises on down the road, maybe that
civilians will still be privy to.
I think you guys make it such an important point, and I think this is so critical.
And Luis and I have been talking about this for four months now is how critical it is
that we don't attach our identities to a specific belief system or outcome when it comes
to UAP. I think that's one of the things that causes so much harm, whether it's
psychological or sociological harm when it comes to this topic.
Because if you do, if the outcome is so important to you, a specific outcome is so
important to you when faced with an alternate reality, then you're subject to
anxiety, depression, all of these things.
And I think it's so dangerous, really, when it comes to and especially and Tim, you
brought this up earlier. And I think it was such a such an important point that, you
know, when society is in struggle, when when when the world is unknown, when outcomes
are ambiguous, it's very easy to put your all your hopes and your faith and your
energy and passion into one basket.
And I think you guys represent this topic in a very with a lot of journalistic
integrity. You represent it in a way that really focuses on, you know, let's let's have
at this, right? Let's let's pick let's pick away what is truth and what is fiction in
order to get to the truth, because no one's preconceived notion, no one's self-fulfilling
prophecy is going to be spot on.
And it's so critical that we don't allow ourselves to personally as individuals, you
know, go into spirals of anxiety or depression or violence even over topics like
this. Sure.
And I think, you know, I've had these discussions with people who've worked on the
programs, you know, in the contemporary programs.
So the task force, that kind of stuff, or people who have worked with them in different
capacities whose names aren't out there.
But one of the big questions I had, and Micah brought this up, the first time we ever met
and chatted, we talked about psychology and because that's really where kind of my bread
and butter is in cognitive psychology.
And I asked them, I said, you know, how much effort has been gone?
How much effort has been put into this idea?
How certain are we that we could perceive correctly something that is inherently
alien? And I say alien, not just as not from this planet.
I mean, something totally anomalous, totally abstract.
There's no guarantees there.
And I think that this idea that we could have it right is actually probably pretty wrong
because we can only draw on what knowledge and information that we have available to us.
You know, what we can read in a book, what we've been told.
We can all imagine a dragon because we've seen movies by it.
We've had them described to us.
But something that is just totally outside of a total anomalous
discovery. What is the expectation that we could perceive that correctly?
And I don't know.
There isn't any.
If we don't have the language to describe something, you're not going to be able to
describe it. And so that's an interesting aspect of all of this, because it is such a
fleeting topic. I think that would be one of the cornerstone tenets of this topic is
it's always just a little bit.
Maybe it's a fleeting glance at something or it's a very intense experience, but it's not
captured on video or audio and all these different things.
So it's never this full picture of what we define as being true, factual or just ground
truth reality. And so what does that mean about it?
I don't know.
Other than perhaps there is aspects of this.
It's very difficult for us because we don't we can't perceive what's going on.
And so to your point, Mike, absolutely.
You know, there is this idea that if we encounter anything truly anomalous, we're not
going to have the knowledge base existing.
We're all going to be Dunning-Kruger here.
You know, we're going to believe that it's something.
But there's nothing that says that's what it is.
So, yeah, if you put all your eggs in one basket, you're right.
It can cause a lot of distress, both on yourself emotionally, psychologically and just in
general. And so part of that fun of long as there's an unknown, it can be anything.
And so that's kind of fun.
You know, it is fun to me.
And so enjoy that aspect of it, because even if aliens flew in, there's really we have
nothing on our plate here that says we would see them, understand them or even comprehend
it because it would be alien, totally abstract.
Right. Real quick, I wanted to go back to what Senator Tim Burchett said yesterday on
the floor. Just touch on it, because he did kind of mock the name of this new office.
But then we got to let you do that, Luis.
We got to let these guys go.
Absolutely. But then right after that, he wrote a letter to Ronald S.
Moultrie, the undersecretary of defense for intelligence and security, basically thanking
him for this new office.
And then but also saying, you know, I'm requesting that the A.O.I.
MSG brief members of Congress on their findings in a classified setting, followed by a
public hearing, which means we could worst case scenario maybe get some public hearings
out of these offices. What do you think that would look like?
Could we trust this office to provide the American people with witness?
You know, would we get David Fravor and Alex Dietrich in a public setting like that from
this office, do you think?
I highly doubt it.
I think when they're talking about public hearings, we would see something consistent
with what we see all the time with the public hearings, especially the national security
public hearings where you have an agency, the head of whatever agency comes and briefs
Congress publicly.
And they're oftentimes not all that informative.
You know, if anybody, anybody else is a nerd like me that watched the twenty twenty one
national threats hearing where they have all the heads, the CIA, the NSA, ODNI is all
there and they all brief.
What are the big threats?
You know, one of the ones that obviously came up was covid, you know, is questioned.
What do we know where covid came from?
And it's this.
Well, we you know, it could have been this.
It could have been that. And so you very likely could see the exact same thing with you.
You could see the director of national intelligence in there telling Congress, yes, we
what you read in that report in June being said verbally, you know, yes, we have this
that the only nice thing, I guess, would be in these instances, you do have lawmakers
that can ask questions, they can ask follow up questions.
You know, Marco Rubio can stand up and demand.
Is it aliens?
You know, some of these politicians do a really good job of of grandstanding.
So, you know, I think that's where the the idea that people I would say that the public
has definitely had an impact when you see these lawmakers talking about it as much as
they have. So, yeah, there's who's the co-sponsor from South Carolina?
Why am I drawing a blank on it?
Lindsey Graham. Lindsey Graham.
Yeah. I mean, good gosh.
He could get all sorts of animated.
You know, no one has ever seen him in the confirmation hearing.
So, yeah, who knows?
Oh, you'll be up there screaming, jumping up and down.
That'd be an interesting day, that's for sure.
Just politically speaking, I would be so confused.
I wouldn't know what to do with myself.
I was like, oh, I like I like what he's saying, but God, I really don't like him.
But yeah, that's if there's any positive, you know, if it's not disclosure, perhaps the
best positive outcome that can come from all of this news is people are actually paying
attention to how the government operates and lawmakers operate and everything.
And they they may go, this is stupid.
Like, how how do we get anything achieved?
Like we've never we haven't faced another attack because nobody's wanted to, evidently,
because how does anything get achieved?
So if nothing else, hopefully maybe people pay attention to that and go, man, some things
need to be changed here.
Yeah. And if congressional hearings occur, let's just hope that it's not Congress asking
Mueller questions. Can you repeat the question?
Right.
Yeah, right.
I'll refer to the report, the language in the report.
And I think that was sort of like a secondary goal.
So of the phone home was just, hey, teaching people how to interact with their government
is a good thing. You know how to find the representatives and you can take this formula
and apply it to whatever activism you want.
And it works the same way.
Yes, it's just fun.
Absolutely. No, I think that's great.
I think that's that's always been a big thing of mine.
That's how government's supposed to work.
It doesn't matter if we want the government to go look for unicorns.
If enough people in a democracy want them to look for unicorns, well, that's what they
need to do then, because that's the way it's supposed to work.
So, yeah, I definitely commend you guys for that.
Well, we appreciate you guys.
Yeah, we appreciate you so much.
And congratulations again on the one year anniversary of the debrief.
If you are not following these guys, make sure you go to the debrief or to check out
the news magazine. And maybe you guys could tell us quickly where we could find you, Tim.
If people want to find you on social media, if they want to find a debrief, what's the
best way to do that?
At Lt.
Tim McMillan on Twitter, you can find me there.
I go on my little Twitter spats where I'll be on there and call some trouble, argue
with people, and then I disappear for a couple of weeks.
You are kind of like the Houdini of Twitter.
Well, I just, you know, and Mike has got a half-hearted grin there because he knows, you
know, he's always like, oh, God, what did Tim do?
Tim's in a Twitter mood because I'll get on there and rile up with Mike Terber or
somebody like that.
Got to flu on a Tic Tac.
You got to talk to that guy, right?
No, you have to. You have to.
Thank you.
You just gave him permission.
You've completely disrupted the debrief's inner operations now, Luis.
Well done.
Yeah, it wouldn't be the first time.
I swear to God, every time it is an accident, it is not on purpose.
Tim, thank you so much for joining us today.
Again, guys, go check out the debrief and we'll talk to you again soon.
Tim, thank you so much.
Thank you so much, guys.
All right. Bye bye.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Micah Hanks.
If folks want to find you on social media, if they want to find the Micah Hanks
program or the debrief, how do they do that?
Yeah, well, if you want to find the debrief, it is the debrief.org,
debriefmedia on Twitter, and it's usually debriefmedia on the various social
media platforms. Definitely check it out.
Again, keep in mind, we report on a whole lot more than just UAP, but even a lot
of people who come there for that news have expressed to Tim and to me and to
Chris and to many of the other staff there that, you know, you guys beautifully
tie a lot of this stuff together, you know, whether it's defense developments
like, you know, the hypersonic glide vehicle that was apparently tested by
Russia and its missile deployment capabilities.
The Pentagon looking at that and saying, wow, how did they get to that point?
And then like what days later they established this new UAP investigative
unit. Again, we're saying that there may be a lot of things that may be catalysts
for what we're seeing happening with regard to the UAP topic.
And again, we do sometimes look at tangent areas.
So you're going to find a lot of that at the debrief.
If you want to learn about me, just go to michahanks.com and you can find all the
podcasts that I produce.
I've got four different podcasts that I'm doing right now, but the Micah Hanks
program is the flagship.
It goes out every week.
Chris is going to be on there with me this week, along with Tim.
We're going to do a bit of a debrief roundtable year end.
Where did we come from?
How did we get here?
And who the hell are all of you?
So it's going to be a lot of fun.
Definitely check that out.
And you can follow me on Twitter at Micah Hanks.
I've made it really easy.
Everything's just my name.
So you have four podcasts now?
Oh, yeah. I mean, I've had four podcasts for a while.
You can find all those at michahanks.com, by the way.
But yeah, I mean, there's the main show.
I do a weekly currents and news podcast called Middle Theory.
In fact, tonight I'm going to be taping an episode.
Hence why I got to run here in a moment.
But an episode of the Seven Ages Audio Journal, which is the archaeology show I
do. And because of my passion for anthropology, I also have a show called
Sasquatch Tracks, where we talk with actual scientists, field researchers,
anthropologists, investigators, biologists about the possibility that a relict
hominoid like Sasquatch could actually exist.
So, yeah, I stay pretty busy.
And, you know, there's been some discussion about a possible debrief podcast in the
year to follow.
So, you know, I'm not going to get any less busy, am I, Chris Blaine?
Amazing. Well, thank you so much, Micah.
It's always a pleasure getting to spend time with you.
And I mean, you look smoking hot in the Men in Black getup.
So we appreciate it. That's right.
Yeah. I didn't actually wear this just so I could look nice with you guys wearing your
ties. This is what I wear all the time.
Yeah, that's you. That's actually your pajamas.
Yeah, exactly.
Thanks for coming on, Micah.
Thanks, Micah.
On that note here, you'll have a great one.
And Chris Blaine, I'm going to leave you to these gentlemen.
You guys go easy on him, please.
We'll try. We'll try.
Thanks.
Later.
