Welcome to Breeder's Syndicate, where we explore the history of a clan-destined scene
through the eyes of the folks who lived it.
I'm Matthew, owner of Riot Seeds.
I'll occasionally be joined by my co-host NotSoDog, breeder and grower from Mendocino.
Welcome to the Underground.
In this episode, we will be joined by Chimera, long-time member of the cannabis community
and a well-respected member of the breeding community.
Known for his skills in the areas of neuroscience, plant breeding, and biotechnology, this conversation
starts already in progress.
The important thing is that we go through a lab report and show people what are the
things to look at.
What can you, like, obviously in a lab report, there's all this built-in information, right?
So how can you take that information and essentially infer things about the results or see if you
can identify problems with what the lab has done?
And so, you know, what you sent me the other day, and I think you got those posted on your
IG or something.
Yeah, yeah, they're posted on the IG.
Yeah, so people can check those out either now or later.
But you know, like I said, one of the things I said to you back then was that it wasn't
really, like, that was, those were results that somebody had cut and pasted into a spreadsheet.
Yes, yeah.
So that's an opportunity for, like, anybody to manipulate.
Yeah, yeah, anybody can fuck with it at that point.
Yeah, in an Excel spreadsheet.
A lab report is essentially like a legal document in a way.
Yeah.
Well, they are, they are legal documents.
Oh, they are legal documents?
Yeah.
I didn't know that.
It's especially when it comes to, like, you know, obviously there's all this environmental
testing that needs to be done.
But in the context of regulations, like, these are legal documents that certify something
for the purpose of regulation.
Oh, that's right.
Yeah.
So that has to be done to, like, a good standard, right?
Yeah.
I don't know why I'm not having a little luck sending this thing over.
Let me just do it this way.
This is you.
All right, so that'll bring up a picture.
And you might want to actually go in and copy the link from the picture.
But this lab report is called the Phytofax.
Okay.
Phytofax was developed by Napro.
It's actually, it's an image search.
I don't know what comes up for you, but it's the top left picture on that.
Okay, one sec.
I got to switch off here because it'll, it'll pause me for a second.
One sec.
There we go.
You looked really crazy when you were frozen.
Like, you had a really bizarre look.
There we go.
I don't know if it'll even let me show pictures on here now.
You might just have to copy and paste the link in or, you know what, we'll put it up
on our IG after so people can see.
Yeah, let's put it up on the IG after.
Yeah, so essentially, like, look, when you get back, when most places give you back a
lab report, I mean, we're looking at, even if we're just talking cannabinoids, you're
looking at, like, minimum 12 chemicals.
Okay.
So there's, like, I guess it's probably important to talk like a little bit about lab testing.
There's various ways, there's different assays that you can do.
So there's different tests that you can run to try and determine the cannabinoid content
of a sample.
Right?
Yeah.
If you put it into a GC, a GC has got something called, what is it called?
The injection port on a GC.
It's like putting, what you do is you take, you take, think about you, like, you got your
You put it in some alcohol or some methanol or something that's going to extract the cannabinoids.
You more or less shake it up.
And then you take, like, one microliter of the liquid that has now dissolved.
So you got your ethanol, but now you've got all the stuff that came off the plant.
Yes.
Right?
In that liquid.
And so what we want to do is we take, we take a small sample of that liquid, I'll call it
like a thousandth of a milliliter, and that gets injected into this injection port of
the gas chromatic.
Okay.
And so what that does is it takes the liquid that we have with all of our stuff inside
it and it makes it into a vapor.
That injection port is heated like 300 degrees.
Yeah.
Or 350 degrees Celsius or whatever.
So the point is, is when you put that shit in, in the, the liquid, or sorry, that liquid
into the injector and it becomes a vapor, it automatically decarboxylates.
Yeah.
Right.
So you don't, you no longer have, because the cannabis plant doesn't make THC, it makes
THC acid.
Yeah.
We really want to be able to detect the compounds as they were in the plant.
Right.
Yeah.
So what happens is when stuff gets decarboxylated, a certain percentage of it like gets destroyed
in the conversion process.
It just never stops.
Right.
So it's like, if you start with like a hundred percent of THC acid or a hundred molecules
of THC acid, and say you lose 20% of those molecules as it gets converted into THC.
Yeah.
When you get a report at the end that shows 80 milligrams of, you know, THC or 80 units
of THC, that's not what was actually in the sample.
Right.
So the THC acid has destroyed part of the sample.
And so if you go back and look at like all the cannabinoid testing that's been done,
you know, in the scientific literature, 60s, 70s, 80s, most of it was done on DC.
Right.
So the numbers that we see are going to be lower than really what was in the plant.
And so call it like-
That's interesting.
Roughly after 2000 sometime, it might've been like late 90s, people started realizing, hey,
we need to do this in what's called an HPLC or a high pressure liquid chromatograph.
And the liquid chromatograph doesn't do that initial decarboxylation step.
Right.
Because your sample, it gets rather than going into an injection port, your micro or micro
liter of liquid sample that we use to extract, you know, our extraction buffer from the plant,
that gets injected into like a stream of other liquid that runs through the machine at like
25, 27, 30 degrees, right?
Maybe 40 degrees.
So that's not a big deal.
That's not decarboxylating anything.
So the chemicals that are in that, in the HPLC, in the liquid chromatograph, they don't
change.
Right.
So what we're getting if we use that method is an accurate representation of what's in
the, what's in the sample.
Okay.
Okay.
And so it's a much better technique for using for cannabinoids.
Is that what they use now?
Not all labs are the same, right?
So this is kind of the way, here's the thing is the regulations usually say you have to
develop a test that will accurately quantify cannabinoids.
And that test must be what's called validated.
And validated just means like you run a set of experiments using your protocol to show
that your protocol is actually measuring what you say it's measuring.
Right.
So it's like calibrating your ruler.
It's like proving that your ruler is calibrated.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Makes sense.
You're not saying stuff 12 inches and really it's like, you know, eight and a half inches
or whatever.
Right.
It's the same kind of thing.
Yeah.
What validation is.
And so the regulations say you have to develop a validated method, but they don't tell you,
you have to use this exact method with this machine and this column and this solvent and
this extraction buffer.
Right.
And so what ends up happening is every lab develops and you'll see if you go and ask
them about their methods, a lot of them will come back and say, well, that's proprietary.
We can't disclose to you the way.
Right.
Yeah.
A bit of a red flag.
Like if I'm.
Yeah.
The labs, you know, like I'm not a one off.
We do it in-house because it gets too expensive, but to do it as a third party.
But if I am working with a third party lab, we're not just running one or two tests.
Like we're going to be running hundreds of tests.
Right.
And so we're essentially paying them to generate data for us.
Right.
And so I need to be sure that the test that you guys are running actually measures what
it says.
So I'll go into a lab and say, show me all your validation documents.
Yeah.
Right.
They won't let you photocopy them, take them with you, but you can certainly sit down in
their office and read through their method.
Yeah.
Right.
And we've done this like when I was working at Napra, we did this with multiple different
labs because Napra was a research lab and we had dispensary clients that were so, you
know, growers that we represented would grow the samples.
We would analyze the results.
They'd go off to the lab or they'd go off to the dispensary.
But the dispensary would be using like one or two or three of the biggest labs in California
for the same samples.
Right.
We had our data that we knew was damn solid and we've published the methods.
So anybody can go and check out why it's solid.
But it's like we had real confidence in that our results were right.
What would happen is because our client would send off the same sample that we had data
for to multiple labs, we would get back that are essentially duplicate copies of the same
results.
Yeah.
But with somebody else's lab.
Right.
So it was generated by something else.
And you'd see, oh, this lab can identify terpeneline or this lab is confusing CBD and CBG.
Oh, wow.
Right.
So those are pretty big deals.
Right.
Yeah.
That's a big deal.
Well, again, like 99.9% of the samples they see are THC only.
So it doesn't really matter whether that tiny little blip is CBD or CBG.
But yeah, you again, like if we're saying that this is a legal document that supports
the regulations that have been created to protect cannabis, like it's kind of an important
thing.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You'd think so.
So, yeah.
So in the gas chromatography, when they do that kind of sample with the ethanol, is that
little tiny one milliliter that they are point whatever milliliters, is that homogenous enough
when they pull it to be a great average of the sample that they're taking?
Is that how that works?
Yeah.
And it's like, that's a very good question.
So the sampling of the one microliter of the thing, like you can imagine that like every
step along that process from taking the flower, it's actually goes back.
It's like it starts with the sampling procedure.
How did you get the bud out of the bag that it was grown in or out of the lot that it
was grown in?
Okay.
And so very often what happens, this is like, listen, everybody's found all sorts of ways
to game the system because the consumer is so THC driven.
Everybody is trying to work every single sample angle.
So for example, growers will go and cherry pick all the biggest, nicest, beautiful buds
out of the thing.
The biggest buds are the top of the plant.
They get direct, they're going to have a lot of chemical content.
And so if you want a real number of the batch, we developed a sampling method where you take
one bud this big and one bud this big and then one bud this big, and they all get combined
together or so many grams of each, the whole thing gets blended up and homogenized.
And then you use that homogenized sample to do your extraction.
People don't do it.
If you're showing up at SC Labs and you're trying to, you've got a seed company, you're
trying to sell a million seeds, they go and they chop off the top as nice as big as buds
and they trim all the green leafy parts off.
So there's absolutely nothing but resin.
And then those pristine, beautiful baby labs go off, those samples go off to the left.
Yeah, you're going to get a higher number.
That should be obvious.
But these are the games that end up getting played because the more THC you got in your
sample, the better the distributors and the retailers and everybody is, you know, anybody
that's THC focused, they're going to get bamboo from that kind of stuff.
Right.
And so like you said, that's just sampling the flower.
Now it goes to the lab.
Maybe the lab's getting paid a decent fee and they put like an extra 0.5 or 5% extra
flower on the scale when they go to do the extraction buffer.
There's a million ways between the plant and getting, you know, that injection going
into the injection port, ways to manipulate the sample.
Yeah.
Forget like intentionally manipulating it.
There's also like natural variation and like experimental error that happens that is going
to allow, that is going to have unallowed variation.
So one thing we were talking about the other day is that like, for example, in Canada,
the regulation says that the THC content in the flower must be whatever's labeled on
the bag or the box, however it's labeled for THC content, that has to be within plus or
minus 15% of the actual amount.
Well, so that's like, if it's 20% and it's actual 20%, 15% of 20 is 3.
So that means that like 23 to 17 or 17 to 23 is actually like that plus or minus 15%
window on either side of 20.
So like, it's important for people to understand that like with allowed error that's to be
expected, there's really no difference between 17% and 23%.
And again, that would apply like between 30 and 24, right?
Like,
Well, yeah, as you go up, like you go up to 30, now, you know, what, 50% of 30 is four
and a half percent, right?
So you've got like 34% down to like, what is it?
26.
Five and a half, right?
25 and a half.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So like, that's a huge fucking rate.
Yeah.
As you get higher, it gets wider.
Yeah.
And listen, that is cannabinoids.
Cannabinoids are typically regulated by regulation, like the regulator, whoever makes the rules
for the, you know, to set up a legal program says, hey, cannabinoid lab tests have to be
with plus or minus within plus or minus 15%.
That's what that's going to be our allowed range.
So your, your assay that are that protocol that your lab designs to generate this thing,
it has to hit between these two or go both.
Well, terpenes, like for example, terps aren't regulated in Canada, right?
So terps aren't considered cannabinoids?
No, they're not cannabinoids.
Okay.
They're cannabinoids, yeah.
They're cannabinoids are a specific class that bind to the cannabinoid receptor and
it's arguably like only beta-caryophiline binds to one cannabinoid receptor.
But there are, there are different chemical class, but like, you know, all of us, all
the producers and retailers, they want that terpene info on the label, right?
It is somewhat informative to the consumer.
So it's an, it's another way that you can differentiate your products and say, Hey,
mine's different because this is the chemical.
Well, yeah.
Terpenoids or terpenes aren't regulated in the system.
Like there is no requirement to analyze and disclose the amount of terpene content on
a flower.
It's like, it's purely an extra thing.
Yeah.
So because they're not regulated molecules, there's no fucking regulations that says,
Hey, it has to be within 15% allowable range limit.
So in Canada, and I'm sure it's, I don't know exactly what it is.
It probably varies by district in the state, but at least in Canada, because they're not
regulated, labs set their own allowable acceptable range.
So I validated one labs method and I was reading through their described allowable range is
30% plus or minus.
Jesus.
So you've got like, let's call it like, well, let's call it 6% terps.
A third is like two out of those six.
So that's essentially saying like, you know, 2% on either side of six, that's like from
four to 8% range.
The lab can't really differentiate between the difference between those two things.
Right.
Yeah.
Like that's a bummer.
That's a huge bummer.
I don't think people understand that because, you know, when some of these labs publish
the results, they're like, Oh, you have like 3.479 milligrams of terps or 3.579% myrcene.
Yeah.
Right.
Well, it's like, dude, if it's 30% off, why the hell are we measuring it down to three
decimals?
Yeah, that's true.
That's wild.
Yeah.
It's insane.
It's so dumb.
But again, you have to realize there's a difference between accurately labeling the information
on a product versus how can you stick information on a label of a product to sway a consumer's
buying preference?
Right.
Yeah.
And clearly those aren't the same thing.
No.
Right.
So it's not at all.
It's kind of, I think it's really, well, for anybody watching, like if you're just basing
things on THC numbers, you're getting fooled.
You're getting bamboozled.
Right.
Yeah.
You're getting, you're having your marketing emotions played with.
Right.
And this is what companies do.
So understanding that all in context, maybe let's think about going back and looking at
like a lab report.
Right.
And so in the numbers that you sent me, one of the things I found really interesting was,
you know, whenever I look at a lab report, my first thing is, I don't even like everybody
goes to straight THC or straight to terpene content or whatever.
I go, who's the lab?
Yeah.
Right.
Who's the lab?
Are these guys trustworthy or not?
And after like a thousand lab reports or 2000 lab reports, you start to say, Hey, these
guys always have like, you know, like all of their results are like 33 to 38% THC.
Like yeah.
Really?
Yeah.
I apply that same logic to seed companies, you know, like I see them working with things
like 40 different things that have been non-existent for 40 years.
And I'm like, okay, well, full of shit, you know?
Yeah.
Yeah.
And it's marketing.
Right.
And the thing is too, like the other thing you got to keep in mind too, it's like when
we see these huge THC scores, like 30 plus percent THC acid, that's a huge amount.
Yeah.
It really is like a fucking massive amount for a plant to produce.
That was one flower on one run.
Right.
That's really what was set and sampled.
If you follow that cultivar back through five, 10 cycles, like you'll see 28, 26.
I'm sure.
Yeah.
The one that always appears on the seed bank package says it's 34%.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Right.
So like people got to realize that like when you're being fed one of these numbers, especially
if it doesn't come on that certified, true, legal document and they're signed at the bottom.
Like if you go down and look at it, it's signed by the laboratory manager.
Right.
Because again, that's part of this chain of custody thing that happens with regulated
shit.
Right.
Yeah.
So yeah.
So check out the lab.
Okay.
Yeah.
Secondly, look before even looking at the numbers, like I always like, you know, I always
want to say before I can put any confidence in these numbers, I need to try and figure
out how those numbers were generated.
Yes.
And so a lab report should say cannabinoids were analyzed by HPLC.
Sometimes you get a laboratory back and it says cannabinoids were analyzed by GC.
I was like right there.
I'm like, okay, well the cannabinoid numbers could be off by 30%.
Yeah.
Right.
Because we've done those experiments and you can burn up to 30% of the total cannabinoid
content in an injection port of a GC.
Like GCs are not a great instrument for measuring cannabinoids.
All the analysis, like up to the mid 90s was done that way.
Right.
Yeah.
But for terpenes, for example, it's actually a great way to do it.
And so a lot of very good labs, what they'll do is they'll do it.
You'll do your, you know, you put your bod, grind it up, homogenize it, take your sample,
put in your ethanol or methanol or whatever your extraction buffer is, strip out the contents,
separate out the solid material.
Now you've got your little liquid.
Yeah.
And then you've got your diesel, right?
That often gets split into two different samples or you will sample two different one microliter
amounts from there.
One goes, gets injected into an HPLC for cannabinoids.
A separate one goes into an HPLC, or sorry, a GC for terpenoid or terpene.
Okay.
We actually used to do two different things when we sent the one off to the HPLC.
We would take your sample out and then we would take one raw sample out of that sub
sample and the other would get diluted by a factor of 10.
So you have nine parts, nine microliters of the solvent mixed in.
So now what you do is you have a diluted sample and a concentrated sample.
And so the concentrated sample is good for all the very small components that exist,
you know, CBC, the CBG, whatever the little blip cannabinoids are.
Essentially you've got one that's like really, it's like being able to zoom in on those with
a magnifying glass.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Your diluted sample for the molecules that are there in abundance, right?
Because if you try to, often if you try to cram those like THC, like a type one plant
that's full of THC, you cram that through your HPLC and it just, it overloads the detector.
Oh, okay.
So you want to, so as you can see, all these places are opportunity for error.
Yeah.
But if you do them very, very carefully, you can actually get incredibly, incredibly accurate
results.
Now, if you're like running a thousand, 2000 samples a week that come into your commercial
laboratory in California, that's like throughput.
Right?
So it's like, you're, you're essentially breaking down how many can I do in a day?
Okay, well, if I'm doing that many a day, maybe I don't have the ability to do it quite
as accurately.
Yeah.
Right.
And so these are the decisions that get made in the labs that no one's thinking about.
Everybody just thinks you drop down your 120 bucks or 150 bucks and you get a bunch of
numbers back and it's proof of-
Yeah.
You just toss it in the machine, bam.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's not like that, right?
So it's just important for people to understand the context, right?
So-
Do you, did you want to go over the standard, what the standard is, how it works?
Yeah.
So any machine has to be calibrated, right?
Mm-hmm.
And how's the best way to explain it?
When we take, you got your, so you got your bud, okay?
You get your bud, call this our extraction buffer.
You put a flower in there, you put in your ethanol and you shake it around, blah, blah,
blah.
Send out the flower, oops, send out the flower.
I just threw a sample all over the ground.
You send out the flower and you got your, your, your leftover.
So what we've got is ethanol or methanol, whatever, it doesn't matter, your solvent
with all the chemicals that we were able to strip out of the cannabis plant material.
So you've got turf, you've got all the different cannabinoids.
A standard, like, but we don't know how much of everything is in that sample.
Like it's an unknown amount of unknown chemicals in this sample, right?
And what we need to do is compare it to a known sample.
So you can actually order pure THC from a lab synthesis company and these synthesis
companies that are allowed to have, you know, they get a DEA license so that like the cops
can have, and they'll, they'll sell, they'll get a DEA license so they can synthesize THC
and make what are, what are known as like a chemical standard, which is usually one
milligram of THC into one milliliter of methanol.
Yeah.
Well, methanol is an alcohol, but it's not like ethanol, it's poisonous.
You make it go blind.
So the idea is people won't consume it.
So it's, it's so weird that anybody would like consider the idea to go get THC
standard ethanol and like fucking shoot it or whatever they're doing and do with it.
It's wild.
Yeah.
But this is what the DEA, the context of the DEA is thinking in protocol, right?
Like, yeah.
I'll call this THC and someone's going to try and get high, a milligram?
Like, dude, really?
Yeah.
You know, like even like a 20% bud is like 200 milligrams.
Yeah.
Right.
So it's like, you really, you're going to try to anyway, of course you don't, but
that's the theory behind it.
But one milligram in one milliliter of ethanol is legal.
Yeah.
It's legal.
So people can buy and trade it without having licenses.
So now you have your one milligram milliliter.
You can essentially treat that like your extraction buffer extract and cannabis
plant. You can take like one microliter out of that milliliter injected into your
HPLC and you get a peak of a known amount and you can say, okay, this peak is, I know
that it's this known amount we're putting in boom.
You know, now I can, when I run another sample and it has a peak of the same size,
I know that it had the equivalent amount of THC.
So it's a way that you can calibrate your machines.
Okay.
Got it.
And good labs will do what are called check standards.
Like you run your calibration curve, you get the machine all calibrated and then like
call it every three or five or maybe 10 runs rather than running a sample.
You run your standard through a standard mix of terpene standards and cannabinoid
standards. And what that should do is that like now you have throughout your day, you've
got your hundred samples that are going through the lab.
Say every 10, you've got like a snapshot of the machine in calibration.
Yeah.
And if it's out, you can see, oh, hey, we caught it while it was getting out of
calibration, was recalibrated.
That makes sense.
It's an important, it's for any analytical endeavor where you're trying to figure out
like, hey, what's this exact amount of compound in a plant or in a substance?
You want to have the ability to compound or to validate that number, confirm that the
amount that you're measuring is actually what you're measuring.
Right.
Yeah.
Um, so it's a great question because like when my friend Arno Houskamp, who's a Dutch
research scientist that was involved in setting up the Dutch system, and he's a real
plant nerd guy and he started doing all this research and he wanted to check to see if
the standards from the chemical company are what they were.
You know, they're supposed to be one milligram per milliliter.
Well, he did a whole bunch of tests and showed that the standard was actually 88 or
0.88 milligrams per liter.
So the substance that the guys are selling to all the labs wasn't properly calibrated.
That means everybody in the industry is off, right?
Or everybody in the Dutch remote guys is off.
Like this is, we're talking, you know, I think this is like 2009.
But two years ago in Canada, the same thing happens, right?
Like somebody identified that, hey, you know, the ResTech sample that was, ResTech is a
supplier for standards.
The ResTech samples that everybody uses to calibrate or that half the industry uses to
calibrate, they've been wrong for eight months.
And they kept that quiet.
It comes up in the circles, but it doesn't like, yeah, it does come up in your, listen,
when that happens, they have to like, they're legally required.
And again, you're the support industry for a regulated system.
If you fucked up, that's affecting everybody, how they're complying with the
regulations. It's like they have to close.
Right. So it does, it does become known amongst labs.
But again, it's the type of thing that like the labs, they're not required to disclose to
the public. Yeah, yeah.
Right. They probably should disclose to their clients, but often they don't.
Right. Yeah. Or it can happen that they don't.
So anyway, like, yeah, that's a chemical standard and you buy a chemical.
Essentially, you're calibrating for cannabinoids.
Like, you know, I was just on the SC lab website reading over some of their stuff.
They they test for thirty nine terpenes and terpenoids.
So they've either have a standard mix that a chemical supplier supplies or they buy
individually all of those individual terpenes and create their own standard mix that they
use to calibrate the machine.
So you're not only calibrating for THC, you're calibrating for terps.
If you're on the test for every individual terpene.
Wow. Yeah.
And like I said, some now they've gotten to the point where it's like, you know,
say Rez Tech or someone, one of these terpene or these supply chemical supply companies
that services the medical cannabis industry, they might say, hey, we've done the mix for
you. Here's 15 terpenes, you know, all the majors or whatever.
Yeah. The pioneers, terpene, blah, blah, blah.
And you'll buy a pre mixed one of those so that you don't have to individually go in
and create the standard to put it to calibrate your GC.
Yeah. But again, anytime you're buying a compound that you're not making and you're not
quantifying yourself is a potential source of error.
Yeah, absolutely.
So, yeah, it's a bit of a deal.
So, so when we started looking at your results, I started going through them, I realized
whoever was generating those results for one, it's like, again, it was data into
an Excel spreadsheet.
Yeah. It wasn't even a lab report.
So one, like right off the bat, like how much I'm not saying it was the numbers were
wrong, but if somebody gave it to me, my red flags would be like, OK, something could be
up here. Yeah.
The second thing I went through and I started looking at what's the ratio of THC in
the plant versus THC acid in the plant?
As you probably know, cannabis doesn't produce THC.
It produces the form THC acid.
And so. Right, right, right away, if you get a lab report back and there's a chunk of THC
in there, like I'm talking more than really a percent.
Yeah. It's probably been run through a GC.
So it's like, OK, if the THC numbers are coming out like, you know, 20 percent THC,
25, whatever, that's.
Yeah. You should see 25 percent THC acid.
Yeah. You shouldn't see 25 percent THC.
So that's right there again.
Just by that one number, you can see, oh, they measure whether or not they measure the
cannabinoids through HPLC or through GC.
If it's through GC, the number is probably wrong.
Yeah. Because again, we know that it's a bunch of it gets destroyed in the injector.
Right. So there's things that you can like right off the top.
Look at, you know, most people are looking at the they grab a lab report.
They go straight to the THC number and they're like 32.
I'm the best. Yeah.
Right. And it's like that's you shouldn't be doing that.
Right. Yeah. We're looking at the context of what that number means.
Is all the information in this lab report consistent?
Right. And internally consistent like between each other.
Yeah. Like between itself. Does it make sense?
And so that was one of the things that that tweaked me a little bit when I first saw
yours. It was like they had clearly run an HPLC and a GC, which is fine.
I mean, if you're using it for the terps, the GC is fine.
But they were it looked like they were collecting that cannabinoid data as they were
doing the terpene run as well.
Ah, OK.
So it's like, you know, in my mind, I'm like looking at I'm like, ignore that.
Yeah. Don't even look at that.
Don't even put any credence into it because it's just it's weird.
Well, and with me, like when I see something off like that and like when it comes to
terps and lab reports, the reason I sent it to you, of course, when we talked, I was
like, I don't know.
Like, I have no fucking clue. You can read this.
What is it? But like, yeah, I I'm like anybody else, you know, like I see that and
I'm like, wow, THC number.
Wow. Cool. High terp numbers.
What does this mean?
Somebody asked me about a year ago, Ryan, when you start getting skeptical about a lab
report. And I said, when somebody says to me, I have a lab report for you to see.
Right. You should already be skeptical of the results.
And that's OK. Like, it's not like you're trying to hate on somebody's report card.
No, but you should be.
Yeah. You have to be like that is the mentality that you have to have.
Are these numbers that I'm looking at really real?
Yeah. Right.
Yes. Because, like, again, like, you know, you hear I hear for a while in Washington,
they were calling them THC scores.
It's not a fucking score.
Like, you didn't win a race.
You know, this is an analysis of what's in the flower that you grew.
Yeah. And like, yeah, you played a role in that.
But it's mostly genetics.
Right. Like, you know, anyway, it's just funny.
Like, you know, in this world that we're in, like, there's so much grower's ego.
Right. Or it's like, oh, yeah, you know, and it's like I really like let's try to tease
those two things apart.
Right. You and how awesome you are from the weeds you grew.
I'm like all for telling people that they grow great weed.
You grow great flower. I mean, I'm always impressed.
I don't care who it is. Yeah.
It's like you're truly producing the finest.
That's great. Like people like that, in my opinion, are helping the world.
Right. But if you're just growing, like looking for lab reports, you can run around
the world telling how everybody else you are.
Yeah. It doesn't impress me.
Like I've seen enough lab reports that like I don't like who cares.
Great. You got a big one.
It's like great. You know what I mean?
Like, yeah, we if you grow enough plants, especially from seed, you're going to find
some big ones.
Yeah. Big, big, big plants and big, big high numbers.
So anyway, that's like a good thing to look at.
Look at the cannabinoids. Are you seeing neutral cannabinoids or acidic cannabinoids
or both? Right.
You want to be seeing both and you want your neutrals like THC, CBD, CBG.
You want those numbers to be really low.
Yeah, because that's an indicator that your lab report is good.
And now you sent me like, for example, so you sent me one one had like I think there
was like three and three and a four percent or turpoise.
Yes. They're like, I mean, those are we had we had we called the swag flag and it's
really like under one percent.
So we would just discard anything that was under one percent terpene content.
Yeah, because they're they're not like they're 80s weed.
It's not that they're.
Bad, yeah, it's just not the oiliest, dankest, like super drippy, oily weed.
Right. And so we would just automatically anything under it doesn't even get
considered for the for quality.
And then. We started, you know, this is a few years ago, but we were getting into the
four or five percent range and through breeding the highest terpenoid producing plants,
we were able to get some like outliers that were up to like even seven percent or even
eight, which is like ridiculously oily.
Yeah. So, you know, you can do that, but again, like you really want to have confidence
in the lab that you're doing.
Exactly. And as a as a breeder, like a home breeder, it gets really fucking expensive.
To use 30 party third party labs, because it is you're growing a hundred plants.
Like that's like a ten thousand dollar analytical bill.
Yeah, yeah. In most cases, like even if you were to turn around, sell every gram of that
crop, you're not getting like, yeah, you know, unless you're growing huge plants, you're
not getting that ten grand.
Yeah. Right. So doing that kind of breeding has to be funded by people with pockets or
somebody that has an understanding that, hey, I'm going to make an investment in this
and the result that comes out of the end is going to have value.
Yeah. And and so nowadays, like you'll see those plants that are like up into the five
percent, like five percent.
I'm not going to say the maxima in the market, but like when I see someone with a five
percenter, even when I consider it might be 30 percent inflated, I'm like, wow, good job.
You do that. Well, yeah.
When I see eights, I'm really skeptical.
But again, they're not possible.
I know they're possible because we've made them.
Yeah. But when it's such an anomaly, you've got like six lines and all of them are eight
percenters. Yeah.
That's kind of like, oh, yeah, you won like five billion dollar lotteries in a row.
Like the probability of that is really fucking low.
Yeah. And so when the probability is really low, something shifty is probably going on.
Right. Yeah. Right.
Like this isn't about calling anybody out or saying whatever your shit stuff.
Yeah. Yeah. Like, you know, somebody show the 38 percent labs, that flower, the 38
percent total cannabinoids, which is like exceptionally high.
And it was the lab report.
And I called up Josh.
You know, I know Josh and and Alec from there.
They're two of the owners. I called up Alec and I said, dude, like, what's up with this
number? Like people are showing this all over I.G.
and sending it to me. Tell me what's going on with the sample.
And he's like, yeah, when we get a number over, you know, I think it was thirty two or
whatever. But when they when they have a number that hits certain thing, it's go back to
the sample. Start from the beginning again and the whole process reanalyze, they call it a
repress, run a repress on that sample.
And they do. And it came back like, you know, within the same small window that it was
like, yeah, it's a real number.
Wow. So you can have these massive fucking numbers where it's like all the stars
aligned and the plants treated perfectly and it's the most bang and genetic and the
dry and everything is done perfectly and you preserve that beautiful specimen and get
it. Yeah. So when you when you show me your samples and you have that one that was
higher. Yeah. And all I can tell you is the seems high.
Doesn't mean it's wrong.
Yeah. But it's one to look at.
It's anomalous.
It's anomalous.
And there's two anomalies in those three samples.
Well, yeah. So so so even if it was just based on the numbers, I would be like, yeah,
that doesn't mean that they're wrong.
Yeah. No lab report, no signature.
It's not even on a lab report.
You know, I know the lab never saw anything.
It's like all those things combined.
It's like red flag, red flag, red flag, red flag.
Right. So absolutely.
Yeah. And like I said, you know.
The only way to really know these things is to run that sample that that plant to five
different grows and analyze it that that many.
Yeah. Kind of see what's the range of what that plant does.
Yeah, I mean, I guess it could be an anomalous it could be an anomalous, anomalously
good grow just that one round.
And that's that.
Only time you'll ever see it.
Yeah. And I think like I think that we can still say that like nobody
really knows all the secret little switches and bells and
switches to give a plant to make it produce at its optimum optimum
production every single time.
Like, sure. You know, you hit it or you don't.
And sometimes it's like there's a lot of clouds or sometimes it's shitty weather and you
get, you know, like whatever it is like.
Yeah. Nothing goes perfectly.
The air conditioner goes down. Who knows?
Right. Yeah. The kind of things that can go wrong.
So, again, in the context of like a thing I like consumers to know is that
like it's just to understand that context is because it's like, you know, like I'm out in
the market, you're out in the market, we're trying to sell seeds, we're trying to
provide good products for people.
And you have some chump has been growing for like seven years and they've
got an Instagram page with their crosses and like everything's, you know,
you know, my results range from like 32 to 40 percent THC.
Yeah. The reason I want to have these conversations out in public is so that like
the consumers that are watching us, they can become informed.
And then when they see the used car sales and seed pushers that like are
everywhere in this fucking market.
Every left turn.
Like every second account that follows me is something genetics or something labs.
Yeah. Right. That's like, you know, you're a lab or you've got like a tent.
Yeah. It's all about.
It's all about marketing, it's all about trying to fucking make money.
Right. And, you know, I like making a living out of the cannabis would be nice for
everybody, but, you know, I really.
Have taken this to like a stupid level of passion and in-depthness that it's like
when I have to stand beside like Joe Blow, that's like.
Spout nonsense, it's like I just, you know, and I'm not competing, not even
competing for an audience, but it's like I'm at a conference, I'm speaking on a
panel besides some dude that's like spout nonsense.
You're just like, Jesus Christ, man.
Yeah, it's hard.
It's hard when you love something that much and you put that many that many years
into it and just to watch you get bastardized super fast around you.
Well, yes, and the only way to do that is to like.
You know, it's to try to explain to people why your shit's different.
Yeah. Like what you see, like all this time and energy that I put into learning
and understanding all this stuff, like why it makes a difference in our our
seeds. Yeah.
And. You know, it's it's demoralizing, demoralizing to have to sit there and do
that. And but the only way to really have people recognize this, to like educate
all of our consumers, right, so that people can be informed and people can like
not get caught in the carnival, get caught up with the carnival barbers.
Yeah. Right. So it's abundant.
Well, they're everywhere. It's like, you know, it's like trying to walk across a
field, like avoiding cow patties.
It is. Yeah.
So there's a loose bunch of stuff on labs.
I don't know what other stuff you want to cover or there's questions from the
audience or stuff. Yeah.
Someone someone asked, are inaccurate percentages fabricated by by a false
standards when using the GC?
What do you mean a standard like so?
No. Yeah.
Like I think the answer is yes, lab results can be falsified.
They can also be there are all the time, as we've explained with that 15 percent
thing, if you didn't understand and see that, go back and watch it.
Yeah. There is an inherent amount of normal variation and acceptable
laboratory error that influences the end result.
Right. So like when you put in the flower
and you get back that lab report, that didn't come from God.
Right. Yeah. Like I don't believe God that didn't somebody didn't hand that down.
The divine and say this is the divine ultimate truth.
Right. Like, yeah. Yeah. It's like, hey, we measured your shift.
This is this is the measurement that we got. Here's the number.
And by the way, what you should understand is that that number is like has an
acceptable variation. Right.
On the other side of the question, do people manipulate these laboratories?
Yes, absolutely.
In every district, there have been laboratories that have had their bombs
banked because like it's like you take like, you know, there was somebody
in a Leafly article, somebody did this and laid out like
a thousand lab reports.
They took all the statistical averages of all these different labs and every lab's
statistical average went on on a graph with a different color curve.
Right. Oh, wow. You see, like everybody is all lined over this one
specific area. And then you got one lab that's like shifted to the right.
Their whole curve is like shifted to the right.
It's like, OK, well, what the fuck are these guys doing wrong?
Yeah. Right. And the truth is it happens in every district.
Higher lab results get more sales,
of course. Therefore, there's an incentive for labs to give higher results because
they're a profit for profit service.
Yeah. And there's a benefit for growers to seek
those labs out and maybe pay a little bit more for a higher number.
Yeah. And so.
I think that's a bad design.
Yeah, I think the answer is you can't go back to that question.
Do do labs manipulate?
Let's not say all labs, but say a percentage of labs do manipulate.
And that can be done intentionally or unintentionally.
Yeah. The way it's set up is ripe for corruption if if one wants to be corrupt.
It's you have to.
And again, it's about this passion thing that we were talking about.
What are you seeking?
Yeah. We can to market a product or are you seeking the ultimate truth?
Yeah. Are you seeing answers?
Cannabis understanding. Right.
And like. If you're not controlling that agenda,
you're getting played by it, right, so if you're a consumer, that's true.
Unless, you know, like say, for example, like, you know, you go through all the
stuff and you say to me, you know, did I really want to be like high integrity?
See, we're going to do everything the right way.
And you show up, you're doing it the right way.
I'm going to have more faith in you.
Yeah. And then if like I resonate with that kind of thing and I say, hey, Matt's
doing all the thing, look, he's demonstrating that like, hey, I got this lab
report, but maybe it was a little high.
I don't know. Like something's questionable.
That shows you that integrity.
If I'm a customer, I'm going to support that.
Yeah. Right.
But these are again, that's like a value judgment, something that I value.
Other people might not value those things, right?
Like because as you can see, like a lot of other people are like, no, fuck that.
The Jungle Boys is the hottest shit.
I'm going to go grab whatever they got.
You know what I mean? Yeah.
They don't the value system is not the same.
So anyway, next question.
And the education system is not the same.
I mean, like what we've been trying to do with the whole breeder syndicate thing has
been it's been tough because we decided a long time ago, the only way to combat
disinformation and misinformation is to educate.
But you can't force people to want to educate themselves.
No, you can't. All you can do is lay it out for the people that want to know.
Yeah. And I've been pushing this ball up hill for a long time.
More people are getting to the point where they want to know.
Yeah. Right.
And it's changing.
Right. I mean, just it's changing over time.
But it takes time.
And, you know, it's like everything.
It's like, you know, what you and I consider good music.
That ain't what's on the top 40.
Right. And the cannabis industry is going to be no different.
Like there's going to be people that really understand.
They're really passionate.
They really want to have a pair of beautiful things.
And then there's like the 90 percent that are going to listen to Justin Bieber.
Yeah. Right.
And smoke Bieber butt.
So.
I have some I have some questions I want to run through.
It refers to testing, but it refers to genetic testing.
Are you cool with that? Yeah, sure.
OK. This is kind of a I don't know.
I mean, I don't know if there's an answer to it necessarily, but do you know how far
we are in mapping the cannabis genome as far as are we able to tell
real genetic relation as far as like S1 variation
and parental lines, father, cousin, sister?
Is that even something in cannabis that you could do?
Yeah, you can do it.
I can't go and like seek that information out.
It's one of the weird things with the file is what is going on.
You know, they were doing the run around trying to get samples
and they actually approached me at one point in time.
I was like, not interested. Yeah.
But what I will do is I said, hey, I've got all these self populations.
Why don't I help?
Why don't we look at like 50 individuals from the self population
and then explore the variation?
So then now I've got like we've we've shown, hey, here's like the parental clone.
Here's the heterozygosity by sequencing.
Yeah. Grown 100 offspring of the self do the same thing.
They didn't want to do that shit. Yeah.
It seemed like that was the most like what people went to
phylos for was that information more so than anything else.
They were just weird.
They had the pitch was great.
It was like collect your star on the galaxy. Yeah. Right.
Like and it was like it's kind of like that whole like
we can show you your name, it'll be up in lights. Yeah.
You know, like it's fucking nonsense.
But that's it. People fall and fall for that shit. Right. Yeah. So.
When we when I don't mean we, but I mean, when
humanity first did the Human Genome Project, it was like,
oh, my God, we're going to know everything.
We've got the whole genome to be able to treat disease.
And it's like, wait a second.
It's like you've got one white guy.
Yeah. Right.
Like, do you think that that encompasses the genetic variation
that exists in like the Jewish or the or the African
or the African population of like the North?
Yeah, yeah. Sure.
We're in South Africa or like Asia versus, you know, like wherever. Right.
And so the next evolution that came out of that was called the 1000 Genomes
Project. Right.
And it's like once you got 1000 genomes, now you can start looking at all
the different genes and seeing, OK, here's kind of like a catalog of the
end of the genomic variation that exists in the species
or like at least it gives us a look at, hey, there's way more very. Right.
And so we're not at the point of cannabis. Yeah.
So there are, you know, folks like medicinal genomics and some other groups.
I think medicinal genomics probably have like I would say they've been doing it.
I think they've been doing it like more or less the longest.
And they so they've started to get like, yeah, you can go in
and you're one of their clients and you paid out your shit sequence.
You can compare, you know, your snips versus other essentially snips or
genetic misspelling is in a word. Right. Yeah.
You can because these things are repeated over time.
If you have like a genetic misspelling that happens in skunk
and then you cross it into scum northern lights and skunk caves and skunk Afghani
like you have a probability of finding that.
Misspelling in all of those different lines.
Right. So over time, you can use those to build like a family tree.
But what we haven't really done a good job of at this point yet is saying this.
Small genetic change results in X.
Right. So like we've got a bunch of DNA letters and we can see a variation of these data.
But it's like, OK, what does that correlate to in a plant?
You know? Yeah. Right.
And that's the hard work is correlating the phenotypic data with the genetic data.
That makes sense. And that is going to take time.
Yeah, that's got to be years away.
Yeah. But it's going to it's always going to be an ongoing process.
Right. Yeah. And with corn, they've done it.
They've got a pretty good job of it now.
And like, listen, we've got like we've got what's called an annotated genome,
which means you can look up a you want to look up like the
fatty acid desaturated gene that is involved in like, you know,
so plant cells, what happens when plants get really cold,
they lose oil content in the cell membranes and there's a gene involved in that.
Right. So, yeah, like I can look up that gene and actually now go and find out exactly
where it is in the can.
Because they've said, hey, this small section of the chromosome matches up with this
gene and all of the plants. This is the gene that does this in Canada.
Right. But like, again, it's like, you know, that that gene, that segment,
the next thing is there.
Do we know what every variant that exists for that gene
and the result of those variants are? No, we don't know that.
Very interesting. So we're starting to build that knowledge, like,
one of the things, you know, McKernan medicinal genomics, McKernan's no dummy.
He looked at it like, oh, we're going to start looking at the cannabinoid synthase
genes like that's going to be one of the first things.
So, you know, they sequence the whole genome.
But the first thing that they do, they take the microscope,
it's not a microscope or a magnifying glass, but it's an analogy.
You take the magnifying glass and when you look at that region of the genome
that has those genes involved in cannabinoid production,
hey, this one's got a break in the gene or this one has two copies of the gene.
And so they're starting to tease it apart for like some of the major genes of interest.
Yeah, but because they don't grow plants and they don't do those correlational studies
between genetic data and phenotypes, they can't generate that kind of data.
Yeah, right. It was going to be a slow build.
It was interesting going back and forth with phyllos at the very end
before they shut their doors and they were like, oh, we're going to do this.
Going back and forth with phyllos at the very end before they shut their doors
and giving them known parents and the known children cuts
and watching them come back and say there is no relation.
It was really interesting watching that.
And they put their whole reputation on the line to do it on top of that.
Well, it makes you wonder what's going on, because, I mean, you know, they are.
So it's like, did they fuck up the samples in the lab?
Are they not just not running them and taking your money and telling you, right?
Like that could be true, too, right?
You have no way of knowing.
You have no way of knowing.
And when we pointed it out, they shut the doors.
So I guess I don't know.
I'd like to see how long their data stays up online, their data sets, because knowing that,
I would think that if the more that gets out,
the more likely people are to start asking questions.
I had like, listen, when they first started coming out with their things, I talked to,
you know, they offered me a job at one point in time.
Yeah.
When I left Napro and came back to Canada, they were like,
well, come work for us at Napro or at Philos.
And, you know, just give me like two of your CBG seats.
Yeah.
I was, you know, legalization was happening in Canada.
I was over living out of fucking hotels in the States.
Yeah.
And I just, I didn't value it.
I didn't, there was too many red flags.
Yeah.
Right.
And so like the way that they were going at collecting their data was wrong.
Right.
And just because of, you know, not who I am, but because of like the position I was in with
knowing a lot of people on the internet and having access to like, you know, all the known stuff,
I was like, guys, like, I'll just get you all the shit.
Yeah.
Right.
And then it's verified cuts.
And, you know, when you're doing a can of tonic that it came from the guy that read
can of tonic, right?
Like, yeah, yeah, exactly.
You know, and they were like, well, we don't want to do that.
They didn't want real legacy trains.
You know, we got, it's like, well, why not?
And it's like, oh, you want to take people's money to give them an answer.
Right.
Because they were running a test and their cost was 30, 100 bucks or whatever it was.
And they're charging people hundreds of dollars.
Right.
So, yeah, they're just turning them and burn it.
And in the meantime, they're learning all this stuff because they see everybody's samples
or like the guy that faced the test, you only see your sample.
Right.
Yeah.
It's like you understand your genetic data to whatever degree you can say, oh, look,
there's my star on the galaxy.
Yeah.
Right.
It's kind of like buying an anchor on the moon.
Right.
Yeah.
Like you can see what the telescope we care.
It's like fucking useless.
Right.
Like it doesn't.
Yeah, dude.
Um, so but anyway, you know, anyway, it's one of those things where it's like, I don't
know if you're soft to read Tom Sawyer, but it's like there's a certain point in time,
I guess, to paint whitewash the stupid fence and everybody's like, yeah, yeah.
Hey, Tom, can I give you my like Apple if you let me whitewash some of your fence?
That's kind of what Phyllis was doing when we began this industry.
Right.
Everybody was lining up like suckers to be.
Oh, it all turned like because of I did that green work from Napro.
Then there was the patent that came from it.
Like a lot of people all bent out of shape.
But it was like, you're fucking finals.
You're working with finals and patenting all this stuff.
And I was like, wait a second.
All you dumbasses fell into the fucking silos trap.
Yeah, actively paid to give away your fucking information to some big genetics company.
And you're pissed off at me.
Yeah.
Are you mad at me?
Like you fell into the trap, dude.
Right.
Um, so I don't know the cannabis, you know, community is funny with that stuff.
Because it's like, yeah, like the patents are really freaked out about the patents.
And now everybody wants patent.
Right?
Yeah.
Back there.
Literally everyone.
Yeah.
And like, I think if you truly bred something and you created something new,
and you can get intellectual property protection by way of a patent,
like a plant patent in the States.
Fuck, get on with your bad self now.
Why not?
Now it's got to the point of where you almost have to if you want to stay competitive,
because the legal market is coming.
And if you don't patent it, someone else will.
It's just it's going to happen.
Well, nobody can.
So somebody can't come along and patent your shit.
They can patent something that is the same as your shit if you didn't get to it in time.
Yeah, sure.
But yeah, really like what a patent is saying, hey, this is a unique thing that I developed
and it just gives you a stamp that says, hey, you actually developed that.
Because you have to demonstrate how you made it.
Okay.
You have to say, I crossed this and this, we did these selections,
and there's a whole thing, like a whole description of that.
Do you have to have actual proof that you crossed XYZ and the proof of all this?
Like video?
Like, do you know how it works?
It has to stand up in court.
Right?
Because it can be challenged at any point in time.
So if you don't do a good enough job, like you might get it past the USPTO,
you might get it past the patent examiner.
And he says, yeah, this thing appears, whatever.
But if somebody comes along and challenges it later, and they can demonstrate later
that, hey, you didn't document well enough, and there's these things that call
what you said into question, that's up in front of the judge.
Who's going to make a ruling on whether you actually, the patent is valid.
A patent is a claim, right?
It doesn't mean that you want to fit it.
It's a claim that you own something, right?
Whether you really own it is a matter for the courts.
Yeah.
Right?
And so like any patent can be challenged.
And so if you're going to go through a patent and all the effort and expense of
getting a patent for something that you've created, you should probably do a good job
of describing everything, like all your homework.
Every last step.
Yeah, because you want to lay out the whole story.
So because the story is what gets published in the patent.
If somebody comes along and says, yeah, this doesn't make sense in your story, that's
ground for a challenge.
Yeah.
And so that's why when you see, like, you know, I'm not talking about plant patents,
but if you read some of these patents on like genes, you know, it's like, or for example,
in a chemotype.
So it'll be like, we're patenting every plant in terpenellin dominance with type three or
type two, you know, cannabinoid profile, meaning CBD and CBG.
And that means everything from 1%, 2%, 3%, 4%, 5%, 6%, 7%.
And you'll literally see that fucking list out like, you know, one through 40%.
Right?
For clarity that they say this patent claims every plant that is 1%, 2%, 3%, 4%.
Yeah.
And it's like, you document it as tightly controlled as possible.
The idea that patent attorneys do is like, you want to write patents that are defensible
in the future.
So you try to close every loophole that you can think of.
Right.
And patents are different than trademarks.
I know Archive run on trademarks.
Yeah, trademarks are, yeah.
Trademark is how you sell a product.
Okay.
Okay.
Look, when we start talking about intellectual property on plants, it's, wherever the person
is watching this in the world, like if you're in Europe or you're in Canada or you're in
the United States or you're in China, totally different.
Okay.
Yeah.
There's something in the, there's a system that is like accepted all over the world called
UPOV and UPOV is essentially the Union for the Protection of Plant Varieties.
And they're the guys that created this overarching system that said,
these are the ways that we evaluate to see who owns or develops a new plant variety.
Yeah.
But it's an international treaty made by an international organization.
All the countries come together.
Most of the countries in the world come together and have signed this treaty.
But like, for example, you know, call it like New Zealand, say they signed on in like the
1974 edition of the treaty and the United States signed on and like a later version,
call it 1991, right?
Those made up numbers and dates.
Sure.
You're only beholden to the version of the treaty to which you signed.
Yeah.
Okay.
So, and then when you sign the treaty, all these, like, for example, they go home, you
know, so there's this international treaty, the United States signs on the international
treaty, hey, we're going to be part of this thing.
Now they go back to the United States and they write a set of legislation that backs
up the treaty.
Yeah.
Well, that legislation is totally unique to the United States.
Yeah.
Right?
Like you follow the overarching principles of the umbrella organization, that top level
org, but really every country is a silo with their own system.
Yeah.
And so, patent, plant patents per se, only exist in the United States and Australia.
Okay.
Like, there is no such thing as a patent plant.
Plant patent in Canada or Europe.
Yeah.
We use breeders rights.
The breeders rights system is overseen by UPAV.
One of the major differences between those two is that a patent, you don't have to disclose
or make available.
So, for example, when we talk about international registration of plant varieties or plant
cultivars, what that does is, so I develop the, whatever, call it like a blueberry, sweet,
let's call it blueberry, sweet, kind of plant.
I find a blueberry, sweet, kind of plant.
It's totally different.
Yeah.
I register it.
I declare the parents.
I do the whole spiel.
Yeah.
But he says, okay, Ryan, this plant is yours.
We recognize that you're the developer of this plant.
This one plant that you selected out of this population.
We're going to give you a cultivar registration recognition.
So, it's a registered cultivar.
What you get out of that is the rights.
You don't get the plant.
Yeah.
So, it's like now that plant that I have, that anybody that wants to grow that plant
anywhere else in the world, they can grow that plant.
But I get the royalties or, you know, like I have the rights to the royalties or whatever
profits come from the development section of that plant.
What you don't get to say is nobody else can use this plant.
In fact, one of the conditions that you have to do is make your plant available to other
breeders.
Oh, interesting.
Yeah.
And the reason is like, hey, the reasoning from the top level org is, hey, we recognize
that you developed that plant and it's special and it's awesome and it's unique.
And we're going to give you 17 years of economic exclusivity around that plant.
Yeah.
Plant genetic resources are not yours.
Yeah.
The entire globe has the right.
Everybody on the planet has the right to that plant.
For use in the betterment of all plants for humanity.
Therefore, the plant that you have the certification on, we recognize it as yours, but you have
to share it with everybody else.
Yeah.
Right.
And so other people can take my shit and breed it and improve it.
Yeah.
If I have a patent, I don't have to give it out to anybody.
Uh, okay.
I got you.
You can control who gets it.
Yeah.
It truly is your piece of property.
It's your, you have ownership over that thing.
Gotcha.
That makes sense.
It's kind of a weird, like unique thing that happens in the States because you guys have
these patents.
They're recognized in Australia.
They're not recognized anywhere else in the world.
Not even Canada?
No.
That's funny.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So that's one form of patents.
There's other forms of patents, like there's utility patents and there's all this other
shit.
But I think, you know, rather than doing a show on patents, it's just good to recognize
that that's kind of the way it is.
So yeah, get it, get yourself a plant.
You can also do cultivar and variety registrations in the United States, I think with patents
around, why would you?
Yeah.
Right.
The thing about being in part of the international variety registration is that you don't only
have, like for you, if you're only growing and your clients are only in the States, fine.
Doesn't matter.
Get your patent in the States.
You're protected.
You're protected in the States.
Take that plant to Europe.
Nobody recognizes your IP.
Yeah.
So, you know, you might want, if you're going to be doing business internationally, you
might want to get a form of intellectual property protection that is recognized internationally.
So we got a question for you.
I want to hear Chimera talk about chitosan, jasmonic acid, and salicylic acid.
Is this something that you know a lot about?
I mean, I know a little bit about it.
I'm not like a plant physiology guy that I have that stuff on the top of my head.
I mean, they're signaling chemicals, right?
Yeah.
So chitosan is not chitosan as an additive.
It's not like that's the molecule that's in the shells of crustaceans, right?
Yeah.
So there's some evidence that it does stuff in plants.
And that's not my area of specialty.
So I want to talk to you about what is Chimera excited about genetically that's around right
now?
Something you're working on or something that maybe you saw recently that you're really
stoked on that's novel?
My list, I get off on the variation.
So I like new stuff.
I like, I like, I like when our understanding grows, right?
So it's like, yeah, because for me in genetics, it's like, I, you know, we talked about it a
little bit with Caleb on the shango show the other day, but yeah, like when you're
selfing a plant, it's not just about looking through the population and saying, Hey, oh,
this plant's great because of whatever.
I want to understand all the traits in the plant and how they're inherited.
Right.
And how it's breeding.
It's kind of like being able to take apart machine.
Once you can take it apart and put it back together, then you can reassemble it in new
ways.
Yes.
Right.
And so that's really what, you know, like when, for example, the file story came out,
right?
The, the, the scout compound.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Super interesting.
I want to now be able to go into a breeding program, take a plant with files, self it,
and see how does the, like what happens in the distribution of that file expression in
the offspring.
Yeah.
Right.
Because when you analyze that, then you can kind of get to understand, then you can develop
a hypothesis about how that trade is inherited.
Yeah.
Once you know how that trade is inherited, then you can bring it into any other breeding.
Sure.
Right.
So that's like kind of what I know.
I'm probably not telling people.
I mean, like, yeah, that's the kind of stuff that I like.
So, you know, I don't really like there's, I have favorites, but you know, when I look
at cannabis, I don't really look at it in that almost call it like a prejudicial way
where we're segregating plants on quality.
And I only like one type, you know what I mean?
I've got my favorite dogs, but for cannabis, I see the inherent value in all of it.
Yeah.
Right.
Even funky like ruderala stuff with the otter flowering.
I mean, that was like, I collect that stuff, you know?
Yeah.
Like when I'm in Morocco, when I was in Morocco, I found these plants that are, there's a hemp
variety called panorama.
And essentially the plant grows like a globe.
So like all the branches are completely equal.
So it makes like this round bush.
Oh, wow.
Right.
And this hemp breeder named even Bushka years ago, he developed a variety of it for like
as an ornamental variety.
It was like the only, it was at the time, it was the only ornamental cannabis variety
that had been bred.
Yeah.
And he thought, oh yeah, people planted their garden.
Yeah.
Well, these little weird globe balls.
Anyway, I found a plant like that in Morocco and I was like, well, we can take some seeds
out of that sucker and take it home.
Yeah.
Right.
It's an oddity.
Yeah.
It's an oddity.
It's not in the current cannabis massive gene pool as far as what's being worked with.
You never notice it.
It's different.
Like I like the different, like I really do get off on the variation that you see in the
species.
Yeah.
Because I don't think anybody's done a very good job at like
characterizing the variation that exists on any given set of trades.
Right.
No.
When we were in April, we did, we started doing a pretty good job on turps.
And, and then once we, you know, we did turps at first and then we were like, you know,
you end up with a plant that has the same terpene, terpene profile, and you've got two
plants that are identical or that look identical by lab report, but you smell them.
They're totally different.
You're like, okay, this is clearly not the whole story.
We need to look at other chemicals.
So you pull out the GCMS and you start looking for
regions between your peaks.
And it's like, what else is in there that we're like, just driving over, right?
We're missing in the analysis.
And then you start looking at that and then you find, oh, there's other scent molecules
that are involved in other molecules with scent that are involved in our perception,
perception of smell.
Because again, it's like, I've used this analogy before, but it's like,
it's kind of like going to the orchestra and then, and then turn to the guy that's never
heard orchestra music and saying, Hey, do you hear the oboe?
Yeah.
Right.
It's like, yeah, yeah.
He, he perceives that in the overall sound of what he's perceiving is the sound of the orchestra,
but he hasn't trained himself to be able to like identify that one note.
Right.
Yeah.
And scent is an orchestra.
Yeah, it is.
Molecules.
Right.
And when we smell those molecules, we get them all at once that we perceive it as one thing.
But really it's one thing.
It's like, it's kind of like looking at the Mona Lisa.
It's like, you can say, yeah, it's one painting.
Well, yeah, it's one painting, but it's like, look at all the intricacy that exists in it.
Right.
All the brush details.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And that's really the difference between that's what happens when you, you know, I did, I missed
the thing last night, but I imagine it's the kind of stuff that you guys were talking about last
night.
Right.
Yeah.
We went through his kit and I went through and smelled each individual one, like the terpenes,
they're all in different percentages and whatnot, but yeah, it was fascinating.
There were certain ones that I was smelling like lemonade and a few others that I just,
it totally wasn't what I thought it would be.
Like,
It smells like oranges, doesn't it?
It's like,
yeah, yeah.
There's, there's a few different lemonades in there, but yeah, it was, it was wild, man.
He, he, he wants to send you one of the full kits too, if you ever want it.
Cool.
I'll check it out for sure.
Yeah.
Um, he, he wanted to know crybaby, uh, I'm curious how soma clonal variants fit into
the whole plant patents or whole patent sphere.
Soma clonal variants.
Okay.
So soma clonal variation is like, let's call it, it's usually referred to as the genetic
variation that comes out of tissue culture, but you can really, some, a somatic cell is
like any cell in your body that is not destined to become like sperm or egg.
Okay.
Right.
So like, yeah.
Oh, audio cut for a second.
Oh, he dropped.
Sorry.
Sorry.
There you go.
You're good.
Arms is going to keep going off.
Um, so soma clonal variation is like the variation that exists as a result of the plant
growing.
So like a somatic cell is like any cell in your body.
Like I was saying, it doesn't become a germline cell that doesn't become again.
It's not going to become a gamete.
Okay.
In plants, we talk about it from what we see, the variation that exists when plants come
out of tissue culture.
Like there's a variant that we recognize as a phenotypic variant, which we're noticing
a change in morphology.
Yeah.
Um, probably what's happened is the hormones that we've been using in the tissue culture
processes have caused a genetic mutation that is the result of that variation.
Right.
So I guess I'm just trying to like repurpose the question to say, like, what's the degree
of natural variation that exists in a cannabis plant?
Right.
Yeah.
There was a paper that was just done on this, and I think there was some flaws in the paper,
but they, they actually sequenced all these different plates.
Like they took samples from a big mother plant, like, you know, it was like five or
six feet tall.
It was actually not in the healthiest condition, which, you know, it was like, I was like,
maybe that's, that should have been documented in the study.
But bottom line is they took a whole bunch of genetic samples of different shoot tips,
bottom of the plant, top of the plant, medium, middle part of the plant.
And lo and behold, there's all these genetic mutations that exist, even with just a mother
plant, forget tissue culture, just within a mother plant.
Now, whether that is a factor of them doing a bad analysis or not, let's forget that and
just assume that it happens.
Okay.
Plants, and we've seen this in trees, mutations happen as plants grow, right?
And so if you got like a plant that throws off two shoots, right?
So this is the main stem here.
You got two shoots coming out here.
When this guy has a mutation, every cell that develops from that cell with a mutation is
going to carry that mutation.
Yeah.
Right.
And so we've literally got two branches on a tree that are going off in different ways
that have different genotypes.
If that genotype happens in a gene, if that mutation happens in a gene, that's important,
you know, an important trait for cannabis that could lead to like a change in the plant.
Yeah.
Right.
And so I don't know, you've probably heard me out.
Like someone's asking like a sport, that's, that is a sport, but a sport is like a shoot
of the mutation.
Right.
And so, for example, I was just going to mention like the reason maybe people have heard about
like Pinot, Pinot Noir is a grape variety that's been around for hundreds of years.
We actually have these new grapes that are called Pinot Noir or Pinot Blanc, which means
Pinot White and Pinot, Pinot Gris.
Pinot Gris is actually kind of a pinky grape, pinky grape.
It's actually a sport that they found on like somebody was walking through a vineyard of
Pinot Noir and noticed that one branch on a plant had gray grapes, not purple grapes.
Like there is a mutation that happened.
Yeah.
In the color gene.
Right.
And maybe some other genes as well.
But the point is, you snip off that, that sport or that cutting, that plant is actually
different enough from the registered Pinot Noir variety that you can actually take Pinot,
that new short, the new sport, Pinot Gris or Pinot Blanc.
And patent it.
And, and well, maybe not patent it, but you can register it for a variety.
I don't know.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Patents is a little bit different because of the way they analyze, the way they, they
kind of characterize them as a little bit different.
Okay.
But yeah, it's, it's like, you know, when you do your plant registration, it's like,
oh yeah, the grapes are purple.
Well, like you go back and it's like, you got this one, the grapes are purple.
It's obviously not the same variety.
Yeah.
Right.
Or the same cultivar.
So you can be named as a new cultivar.
So yeah, truth is, is like these things happen.
They happen in plants.
The degree to which they happen in cannabis.
I'm sure we know that they know, we know that it happens.
I think the degree to which we know that it happens is probably still up in the air.
So I don't know if that answers the question, but maybe there's a little context for it.
Yeah.
That's interesting.
Can you talk about, and now we're going to some of your strains that you've done in the
past.
Can you talk about what my favorite strain?
I know we've probably gone over it before, but since this is a new episode, mental floss,
like that was one that touched me.
I'm a four for purples.
And it was made during an era where purples were pretty obscure at the time.
Like the purple craze had gone.
Not many people were breeding with purples, but mental floss always had this beautiful
purple senescence during flower.
Yeah.
Can you talk about a little bit?
When it turns at the end, it's a good, beautiful one.
When it does one of those things, I guess it's got a bunch of carotenoids in it.
The carotenoids, like when you look at, for example, I don't know if you probably don't
have maple trees down where you are, but you might've seen them in the fall.
They go from like green.
And then when the green, the plant, you know, when the plant's going into fall and they're
about to shed their leaves, they pull as much resources back out of the leaves into the
trunk.
Yeah.
Right.
So they can save those little building blocks for next year.
And what's left, what happens is, so the plants go, the leaves go from green to either red
or yellow.
The reason they're red or yellow is because they've got molecules in the leaf called
carotenoids.
And carotenoids just comes from that yellow, orangey pigment color.
That's why they're called that, like kind of like carrots, right?
But those carotenoids kind of hide behind the chlorophyll.
And so with methylphosphorus, again, when you, when you give it a good flush at the
end.
Yeah.
And the plant, you know, cannibalizes all that, that chlorophyll, you end up with these
beautiful kind of rainbow, yellow and purple leaves on the back.
That plant is also like, it makes some of my favorite hash of any cannabis that I've
ever come across.
Super flavorful.
It's strong.
It melts like fucking hell when you, someone's saying fuck carrots.
Yeah, fuck carrots.
When you eat, when you, it melts like crazy.
And it's also very up, like I would smoke that stuff thinking I'm gonna have another
puff and go to bed and you know, I got the computer two hours later, type it away, you
know?
Yeah, yeah.
Like it just, it gets you going and it yields like a motherfucker.
So it's like, it's just a great plant.
Right.
Where did you source your stuff for the incense haze?
The incense haze, one of the parents is sweet scents.
The other one is a seed that came from this dude in New York state that said he got out
of the piff.
Yeah.
So I don't know if it is or not.
His name is Frank, so I call it Frank's incense haze.
Yeah.
Because it really smelled like incense.
When you grew it, like it was, the reason I paired that one with the sweet scents is
because the two, like very often, not very often, not very often you'll come across two
plants that are so close to each other.
They could be the same plant.
Yeah.
And so sweet skunk and this plant were like in almost every sense identical to the part
where like you'd walk into a room, like when you got, when you know, if you have plants
for like 10, 15 years in your room, you get to learn like a little idiosyncrasy with the
leaves and the way that like, you know, the way that the leaves come off the main frond
or the serration pattern or whatever it is.
You get to know them like a parent can identify twins, right?
Like which one of the twin.
And so it's the same thing.
Like and these plants would get confused, right?
The people would confuse them all the time because they're so close together.
Anyway, yeah, it was, so when those two came together, so I didn't think I was selling
the sweet scent because I wanted to understand the inheritance pattern of some of the rare
volatiles that are in it.
And the cell, although it's pure, it's a little bit smaller.
You got a wider range of like, cause it's expressing all the hidden variation that exists
within one genome, right?
Or those that self population.
But when I crossed those two sister plants together, when I do a cross using a reversal,
I always hit that plant to itself because usually you're trying to get that pure line.
But I also always, while the pollen's flying, I will just make a bunch of other crosses
at the same time.
So it's, you have them.
So it's like when you're going down a program, it's like, oh, hey, I lost a trade or this
line doesn't have a trait that I want.
You go back to the line with the trait and you've already got the hybrid that's 50% within
the line you're working in, right?
So some guy did.
But anyway, so when you cross those two things together, the incense haze, which was a simply
irresistible, I mean, they came out much bigger and better and very consistent to type.
So it kind of was the best of both worlds.
So when people ask me, it's like, when they're sniffing around that thing, I always say,
hey, get both of them, get the self for breeding.
So you got the pure stock, it's a little more homozygous or a greater chance of being homozygous.
But the hybrid performs the other one.
Right.
In terms of like a grower's performance.
Oh, sure.
You know, it really depends on what the customer is looking for.
I want to have time.
I really like to take my time to do like a proper consult with someone because I'll come
up and be like, hey, somebody grew this stuff, the lemon floss.
It's great.
I want to grow it.
And it's like, well, what are you doing?
What are you using it for?
Right.
Because I don't want you to buy the seeds that you think you want.
I want you to have the seeds that are going to be the best for what you're doing.
Right.
Yeah.
So, yeah.
Is there a strain that you can think of that you have been looking for for many years or
strain you'd like to encounter from the past that you haven't?
I mean, yeah, again, we have a straight discussion.
I think it would in terms of plants, right?
Like, are there rare phenotypes that I've seen in the past that I don't that I'd love
to see again?
Sure.
I mean, of course, it's kind of one of those things that it's like, if it comes by and
passes without grabbing a copy and then salving it, like it may be gone to the wind.
Yeah.
Right.
So you got to recognize it is, but you know, you're always looking for those things in
the future.
We decided to plant when I was relatively young and it was called Luskini Sweetie.
There's an island off of Texas, British Columbia in the straight there.
Yeah.
Called Luskini and it's no power.
It's essentially a hippie commune.
You know, they grow a lot of dope up there.
Yeah.
And this one, like it was before I'd ever, I'd never even heard of the island at that
point in time.
I was quite young, living on the other side of the country and a friend of mine, a friend
of mine, I was going to ask him what we think of Breeder's Dave.
Yeah.
Your questions are funny, dude.
Anyway, this flower ended up back with me and it was amazing.
It was like incredibly electric, super strong, really up.
And unfortunately, other than the name Luskini Sweetie, I never knew anything, you know?
Yeah.
I never knew what it was.
So it's like, yeah, for sure.
I'd love to come across those things.
But it's like the beautiful girl that you dated in high school.
You might not find another one like it.
So marry her while you can.
Yeah.
Well, we need to get your genetics here in the States.
You know, I know there's a lot of people who really want to grab chimera stuff.
Is there anywhere available in the States right now that people can buy?
I can't sell them to the States, unfortunately.
Oh, there is that.
It's difficult.
Like I said, when I worked down there, part of, you know, becoming a landed immigrant
is having your fingerprint scanned.
So it's like me sending seeds into the States ain't really a great idea.
Yeah, it's probably not.
But yeah, maybe someone can work on doing some chimera genetics out here.
That'd be cool.
Yeah.
Yeah.
In the States.
We have Breeders Retail that's going to come up and get going again, but they're a UK band.
So it's, you know, with them having done Brexit, it's a bit of a shit show, right?
It's not as easy to do the business out of the UK, but it's perfectly legal for us to do that.
So people that want to do that can, you know, get contacted me and we can hook you up through the UK.
But unfortunately, the way the laws are and with that whole
fingerprint and having worked for the man thing, it's like, yeah.
Yeah.
That always puts a big.
The reality is the.
Yeah, that's where we're at.
Crybaby made a comment on your Limoncello.
He said, I thought the Limoncello was very consistent and was an excellent breeder.
I know he's done some stuff with it too.
Yeah, that's the sweet stuff.
It is pretty consistent smell wise.
There's a little bit of variation I find still in like in morphology.
You grow enough plants of the flower morphology.
And so that's just what I meant from that context.
Smoking, they're more or less the same, but they're very close.
They're within that type.
Yeah.
But, you know, I wouldn't lay down if I was going to grow an indoor set of table,
I wouldn't lay down seed from those because there's just, if you're trying to sell the
flower, there's a little bit for me, there's a little bit too much inconsistency.
Yeah.
Was there anything else you want to cover before we rock it out?
Steve's saying, help some BC locals up with seeds.
All these new weejenics, they suck.
Hey man, there's seeds that are available.
Yeah, seeds are there.
Everybody, listen, everybody, you know what it's like.
Everybody's known for the Cali stuff, right?
The Cali world owns the world.
It, you know, Spain owned the world 10 years ago.
BC owned the world 10 years before that.
It'll vary.
It'll move around.
The work, right?
They're doing the work down there.
There's a lot of people that are growing seeds.
And listen, that's the only way that we're going to come up with new, better cannabis.
Keep growing seeds.
Just fucking keep growing seeds.
As much as it's appealing and you have to grow clones for your business model, you know,
just keep growing seeds.
Because if you don't grow seeds, we're never going to find anything new.
And we're always going to be stuck with the same shit that we had five years ago.
It's how it goes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And listen, sometimes the stuff from my, you know, it's like, I see, I call it cannabis
fashion, right?
I like to hold on to old cuts because it's like, they go out of favor, but you bring
them back like five, 10 years later and people are like, I love that shit.
You know, it's like, dude, it's the mini skirt or the bell bottoms.
Like they keep coming back, right?
So I never thought I'd see Skunk One make a comeback.
And it did, you know, a few years ago.
Like what the fuck?
I'm laughing at the Skunk One.
Somebody actually asked me to sit in and help use genetics to help referees and stuff.
Because it's like, you got like five guys in California that are like, I've got the
original Skunk One.
I was like, oh, you do, do you?
It's like, have you ever heard of Sam?
Have you ever heard of Dave?
They're like, no.
You know, okay, well, then you don't have the original.
Right?
It's like, it's funny.
Again, it's that whole ego thing that like people want to get together and, you know,
and be like, Hey, I got the original.
I'm the man.
Right.
Yeah.
Like, dude, like, you know.
Fucking wonderful.
That's an interesting plant, but it's one of those things like, you know, it was one
of the first, right?
The first retro breeding lines and they started selling in Holland and then every seed company
was like, well, we got to sell the skunk.
Yes.
So it's like, then Dutch Passion's got it and Sensi's got a copy of it.
And then everybody's got a copy of it.
Every fucking seed bank in the world, more or less, has a copy of it.
Are they all original?
How much are they any like, you know, it'd be really interesting to have like an acre
and have all of them and grow them all side by side and just see.
And see what they're like.
They're probably not, they're probably like not even, you know, they're probably not even
alike.
Yeah, I'm sure they're not.
And this dude that bought the seeds back in like, you know, 96 or whatever, when he got
them, you probably didn't get them from the original guy.
Right.
So yeah, probably not.
Is your stuff original?
You know?
Yeah.
It's just, it's a funny, it's a funny thing.
I was actually quite amused to see one of the most spread around seed varieties that
existed in the last 50 years, have a bunch of new people pop up and be like, yo, I've
got the original.
Yeah.
And then throw down big dollars, even though it's never been gone.
Yeah, it's always been available.
And what is the original?
Yeah.
Right.
Like the original was a seed, it was a named population.
It wasn't like, you know, it's not like today, it's like OG Kush or Cookies or fucking Runts
or whatever.
Like these start as cuttings.
Right.
And it always makes me laugh.
It's like, you know, for example, Blue Dream.
When Blue Dream came around, it was one cut, right?
More or less.
Like there ended up being a couple that were very similar, but there was one cut.
And then people would come on and be like, I got this Blue Dream, Santa Cruz Blue Dream
thing.
And then they'll like spank White Widow on it or some OG or whatever, some random polly.
Yeah.
And then they sell the seeds as Blue Dream.
Blue Dream.
And now people grow those seeds in a different market where they don't know what the original
Blue Dream is.
They pick a mom.
They say it's Blue Dream.
And now you've got two plants that are being passed around the world as if they're both
the original and one of them is not even the same chemical profile as the Blue Dream.
Yeah.
Not even close.
Most likely.
Yeah.
So Crybaby is asking how much of the ancestral skunk did we get to see a fair amount?
Like we grew out of chunks.
It's interesting.
I mean, there's some stuff in there.
The ancestral people, I don't know if people know about the ancestral skunk.
Yeah.
Talk about it.
Those were seeds that when Dave was moving over to Holland in like the early 80s, he
brought obviously a bunch of stuff over.
He brought like a suitcase of seeds over and did various things with them and worked with
them on various things.
He met a hemp researcher that knew...
He met a hemp researcher that was essentially like...
He was in a European country.
I'm not going to say which one.
But he was...
He grew...
Like he was known as the hemp guy, right?
Like red hemp.
Their country sold hemp seed around the world.
And when the police would...
Like they'd come across a cannabis bust, they'd go and get him and bring him to the
site and be like, is this drug cannabis or not?
Is this hemp?
Yeah.
Right?
Yeah, I know Blackfly.
And...
Sorry, someone's asking that question.
That's all right.
And anyway, Sam arranged for this guy to grow on his research field a hectare of skunk.
Yeah.
And open populated.
So essentially, like, you know, Sam brought those seeds over and they all went in the
greenhouse and said, did various things with them.
He had a big bunch of the skunk left enough to plant like a hectare.
And so they took them to this European country and planted a hectare in isolation.
And he and Rob went through the field and robed all the males and the off types and
the females that were not skunk like.
Yeah.
But the rest of it just got like an open pollinated.
That is what the ancestral skunk is.
OK.
OK.
So it's like it's the closest thing a population could be to what was produced in California.
Yes.
All the other families that came out of that population were like, you know, they were
family lines.
Somebody went in and found two plants and they crossed them together.
Yeah.
So what came out of that from those one to one cross is not the same as what was preserved
in the overall open population.
Right.
So that's what the that's what the skunk was.
I said, Sam, I was like, there's all these people are, you know, crying and whatever
about having access to the skunk.
What's up, Plastagram?
Let's give them access to this.
So we did.
Right.
And they have they got a low germination rate.
I mean, they germinate.
Yeah.
Like that, like 25 percent or maybe even a little bit less now.
I haven't tested them recently.
Well, they're pretty old, right?
Yeah.
I mean, they must have been reproduced like 30, 25, 30 years ago.
That's wild.
A couple of years ago, Sam was looking at selling his collection and I actually helped
him recatalog the entire thing.
And so we got to go, you know, we went through everything and we did a whole bunch of germination
tasks and we pulled stuff out that was like 25 year old seed that had been stored at like,
you know, four degrees Celsius for 20 plus years, 25 years.
And some of it germinated at like 80, 90 percent.
Ooh, those seeds, if they're stored properly and consistently, they can last a long time.
And it's like I got I got a ton of those blueberry seeds still left from from the
D-Day projects and people like, yeah, with their own seeds.
But I can pull fucking the grapefruit sweet skunk out and pop 10 of them and all 10 of them.
Yeah.
Right.
Like it doesn't matter how old the fucking seed is if it germinates.
Right.
Yeah, exactly.
That's my view.
Obviously, some people think differently, but.
Was there any skunk too in that population of stuff that he had saved?
Skunk too wasn't from Sam.
Oh, was it?
No.
You know, where's that from?
I don't know.
Somebody else came along and made it up.
I don't think he ever produced one called Skunk Too.
He I remember there was some kind of quote somewhere about him talking about how skunk
too was the the skunkier version.
He didn't work the skunkier version.
That's the thing.
He was like, I don't like it.
I'm not sure.
It's that one.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Right.
I wonder where I read that.
I'll have to go back and look.
There's a lot of stuff that gets attributed to Sam.
I mean, it's like, again, the whole thing about him and his DEA.
Like all this shit is attributed to him.
This is not even true.
There's little specks of like roots of truth.
Yeah.
Somebody took and blew up into this big weird story and, you know, misinterpret us.
It's because he's Mr. Mystery, I think, you know, like he's an enigma.
You're not wrong.
That doesn't help.
But again, like I think after like, I think if you were treated the way that he's been
treated in the cannabis community.
Look, I mean, it's like the same thing that happened with me and my branding for that
work that ended up being patented.
It's like everybody fucking turns on you.
Yeah.
Right.
And, you know, people like I said, everywhere he went, it was like the whole Dutch scene.
The reason that people started calling him DEA was that he was able to come into a country
that wasn't his.
He's not fucking Dutch.
He went to Holland as an American expat and was able to was able to get.
Now, I didn't say rooting hormone, I said hormones for plant tissue culture.
So rooting hormones, not the same.
Some of the shit that they use for plant tissue culture can cause mutations.
But yeah.
But anyway, Sam was able to go into Holland, set up a business, get a license to grow cannabis
from the government.
Nobody else could do it.
Yeah.
And so, of course, all the Dutch dudes were fucking choked.
Right.
They were like, how is this not this is fair?
This guy's got all this shit.
Right.
Absolutely.
You must have some context that we don't have.
Well, like the DEA is an American organization.
Why the hell would the DEA go to the government of a different country and say, hey, you gotta
let this American grow weed in your country?
That doesn't make any fucking sense.
Like that's a stupid fucking assumption, right?
That's the story that some Dutch reporter guy came up with.
And he used to have a written cannabis radio show.
He started it all over the airwaves.
And now it's fucking true for half the world.
Wow.
Is that where it came from?
Is that where all this started?
Yeah.
Well, it started as a rumor, but that's when it got popularized.
I remember meeting Scott at one point in time, Shanti Baba.
And he was like, oh, yeah, Dave Watson, blah, blah, blah.
And I was like, dude, you've been fucking fed up.
You've been fed up with the fucking lies by fucking Neville and all these other guys.
Right.
That were jealous and haters.
Right.
Neville, I mean, Neville told me directly that he knew Sam's DEA handler.
Everybody knew his handler.
You do not fucking know what you're talking about.
You just spent nonsense.
And you came in late.
Like, I'm just going to ignore your fucking questions.
So let's move on.
Yeah.
Like, whatever, dude.
Like, yeah, it's just told you this fact.
It's like people want to fucking question you without even knowing, like,
an iota of the fucking truth.
Yeah, bro.
But didn't you know it was going to be patented?
I actually didn't.
I was fucking making medicine for patients.
Dumbass.
OK, that's what I was doing.
That's what my intentions were.
The fucking companies I was working with at the time that I was employed by that were
allowing me to fucking like have my dream cannabis job and build a fucking multimillion
dollar laboratory to play in.
Right.
Like, yeah, it's a job, but it's also a job that I wanted to do.
One of the consequences that these guys came out and patented a bunch of
a class of plants that didn't exist before I made them.
Yeah.
So it's like how the hell people like you can complain is ridiculous.
Like, you obviously have no idea what you're talking about and are spouting an opinion
of like from a place of complete ignorance.
So like, yeah, I do have to laugh.
And the reason I'm emotional about it and I'm clearly irritated is because I fucking
got death threats from people like you.
Yeah, I know.
Right.
So give me a break.
I went after you.
I went after you.
You went after me.
I did.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I didn't have the full.
I didn't have the full picture and no one did.
And that's that's the problem, you know?
No, no one had the full picture.
We just went off of, oh my God, patent.
This guy's fucking with the man.
Listen, our community was bred to believe that, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
They'd be very conspiratorial.
They're bad.
Like, dude, I knew research scientists that worked at GW Pharmaceuticals,
like doing Petri dish work and experimental design.
And like these guys would have the same experiences that you and I would have
taking care of Mary's nephew with epilepsy down the street.
Right.
They would have personal relationships with like these kids that couldn't get access to
cannabis and they would come in.
And because of GW Pharmaceuticals that was doing the work with cannabis, they were allowed.
They were able to get access to the medicine that they needed to change their life.
Right.
So I like big pharma or not, I can't fucking have I don't have a problem with that.
Like if you're helping people in like a context, again, they're operating in a context of
prohibition where like these medicines can't get to the people.
I made a post today about Marinol, right?
Yeah.
Somebody was chirping me about Marinol.
Like, oh, no, it's made by in a laboratory.
Dude, a molecule is a molecule is a molecule.
Like if you're fucking starving for water, you don't care whether that water was made
from like burning fossil fuels or mixing hydrogen and oxygen in a laboratory or purifying
it out of fucking shit sewer water.
Like once it comes out at the end and it's pure fucking water, it's water.
Right.
So it's the same with THC and it's the same with CBD.
Right.
Like if those medicines can go to someone that can benefit from those medicines that
they couldn't access otherwise, why the hell do you have a problem with it?
Right.
Like I don't get it.
Right.
And I know that it comes from a place where it's like you feel like, oh, the government's
not letting you do your art and grow the crop that you want to grow.
You know what the result is, dude?
Don't change the laws.
And like we've been fighting for that hard for fucking 30, 40 plus years.
Right.
But I've been involved for 30 years.
Right.
And I founded a political party in Canada.
I was a founding member of the federal marijuana party in Canada.
Right.
I didn't know that.
That's pretty cool.
Like to effectuate change.
So it's like I get that you're pissed off and you're scared of big pharma, but you have
to fucking direct that anger in a channel that's going to change things, not just sit
there and bitch about big business because it's boring.
Right.
It's like it's boring.
And big business is going to happen whether we like it or not.
And we're seeing that in the cannabis world regardless.
It's going to happen.
It happens.
I want to change cannabis in the few years that I have left on this fucking floating
rock.
Okay.
Yeah.
So if you think I'm not going to take a job where someone pays me a decent salary and
gives me like a multi-million dollar budget to fucking grow and make glass that the world
has never seen before.
Yeah, I'm going to do it.
Okay.
Yeah.
You don't like it too fucking bad.
Yeah.
I like seeing the passionate side.
Yeah.
I mean, I get offended by it.
Right.
Because it's like, well, yeah, you have people that don't know what the hell they're talking
about.
And it's like, they're spouting that off as if their ignorant perspective is like,
like one valuable, but like two supremely valuable.
Like they think that they're Russians.
Like, dude, go look up the Dunning-Kruger effect.
Okay.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You know, a little bit, you know, a little bit and think that, you know, everything right.
Try learning a lot and then think that, you know, you know, anyway, whatever.
There's too much of that in the cannabis industry.
And, you know, I'm all up for raising everybody up.
I would love to.
And that's why we do these things.
We share perspective and we teach people because we want you all to be better so that you
can go and raise the fucking game.
And when we all raise the game, the cannabis is better.
The products are better.
The products are safer.
And we're all dabbing out on the dankest fucking shit, right?
Like that's what exactly.
That's why I find it an honor when anybody, anybody uses my stuff because it means that
it was good enough in their eyes to take forward and make better.
And the resulting factor that is if they make something better than I made, I don't let
that intimidate me.
I want to go work with that.
Like that's, that's exciting.
They truly are making it better.
But the thing I don't like is when people like they actually hack apart your work and
then they tell everybody it's better.
And then they sell it as whatever your strain is.
And then that's that.
I had a dude today contact me.
He's like, Hey man, I want like, I'm interested in this kind of high and I'm looking at your
Highland Mexican blueberry.
And I'm like, I want to buy a hundred seeds.
And I was like, Oh, you want to buy a hundred seeds?
I'm not excited because he's buying a hundred seeds and it's like, yeah, I want him.
It was like, it's like, dude, if you're going to put in a hundred grow effort or a hundred
seed effort into improving the line, let me help you.
Right.
And it's like, I would guide this line and I would, you know, and I'm going to throw
in this line extra so that you've got it.
So that as you're in breeding this one, you should put a little bit of this back into
it so that, you know, you don't, you don't suffer inbreeding depression and they've got
the same traits and it's got some nice flavor stuff.
So, you know, in the end you'll be, you'll be able to build better.
I love that.
I'm stoked on that.
Right.
Yes, absolutely.
Buying a five pack and then knocking off open pollination of five seeds to me is an
insult because it's like, you're not, I went to a lot of work to create that population
and now you've essentially put it through a bottle neck and you're selling it the same
thing.
That's fucked up.
Right.
Like, yeah.
So please do take my shit, make it better.
Like you make it better.
I will support you.
If you take my shit and you fucking knock it into crap, then I'm not going to be happy.
Yeah.
Right.
Like that's how I feel about it.
It's like, I look at them like my kids, you know what I mean?
Yeah, of course.
You know, you, you want your babies to go off to good homes, right.
Yeah.
And have happy marriages and all that kind of shit.
So.
Yeah, I totally agree on that.
Can you tell us a little bit about the Highland Mexican too, since we just brought that up?
These were old seeds that came to me through Rabbit Legends, actually, someone shipped them
to him and it was some old dude that was like, yeah, I'm old.
I've been growing for years and years.
I collected these things in the sixties and seventies.
And I don't know, you know, I don't know what's going on.
I don't, I don't, I know I don't have the ability to do something with them.
Can you please give them something that did?
And so we got from it, I grew a whole bunch and found a really interesting plant.
Yeah.
And I put, I had one, I was like, I'm going to take this one plant and put it in the flowering
room.
And it was, you know, it was like a real equatorial, right.
So yeah, you put it in and it gets to like a foot tall and you're like, Oh, this thing
is going to really stretch.
So you cut it down and make four, four shoots.
And yeah, this thing was like twice as tall and wide as any other plant in the room.
And it must've produced like, I don't know, it was in the, they were in like the many
thousands of these, like it was like, you know, probably eight, 10, I bet.
Yeah.
Because the whole thing, just like the whole, it was these long, you know, the old kind
of like long spear flowers that you'd see in the Cetoneus, not too thick, but like really
yeah.
Long running.
It was like that just chock full of seeds.
And it had a nice high effect.
It was like, we weren't analyzing turps back then, but I, in memory, I would say that it's
like a limening turpin or limening pining plant, which is kind of rare in today's turpin
profile world.
Yeah.
I think that's what was really associated with a lot of the old hazes.
And it was just a nice bud, but it was nice, classic, non, like it was not popular bud.
And so when I released those DJ joint projects, I put some of those out there and I don't
think we sold a pack for like 18 months.
Yeah, I can see that.
Because they were like, oh, you know, they already wanted the grapefruit, blueberry and
the menthol floss and all the plants that were like getting yield.
And then finally somebody decided to grow a couple of those like in an equatorial climate
and ordered some of those and grew them.
And they were just, I mean, they're, they have the ugliest phenotype flower.
Oh, I'm sure.
Yeah.
Like long spindly, weird, like, you know, like buds that have like, they look like they've
got like five or six foxtails coming out of just two calyxes stacked.
Right.
And they'd look, it would look like a finger.
It wouldn't look like a hand with a bunch of fingers.
I remember seeing them.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And you can take them like this, rip off the calyx and essentially fold a paper around
it, right?
Yeah, right.
But there, it was a great, nice effect in doing those crosses.
And actually in growing DJ stuff, I, I don't, I'm not, I don't have proof that this is the
way it is, but it's definitely my very strong feeling is that all those introspective and
like, I don't want to say, but like cerebral kind of highs that you get from THC.
And this is largely from running all DJ stuff through that really expensive lab that we
built like in population.
Most of it's in the eight to 12% range.
Yeah.
Right.
It's not fucking 25% bud.
Yeah, exactly.
Low cannabinoid production, what we would call today, low cannabinoid production plan.
Yeah.
But when you whack up 30%, like 28, 25, 28, 30% THC, you start to really get that stone
kind of lethargic kind of dull effect.
All the sheen has been taken off of like a high and you just kind of feel it in your
head and you're just like kind of whacked in stone.
That's THC.
Right.
And if you take a Marinol pill, you actually feel the same way.
I bet.
Right.
It kind of feels like somebody thudded you in the head with something, you know, like
whack.
Yeah.
And you don't get that from those 12% or those 10% you kind of get a nice floaty buzz,
but it's like, it's enough that you're affected, but you're just kind of in a different head
space.
And yeah, I clear headed high.
And for, you know, like the folks in Rob's generation, Dave's generation, that's, I'm
not saying Rob and Dave in particular, but like people of that age, that's what cannabis
was when they were growing up and what they had access to.
Right.
That was, he didn't come across like a cookie back in the seventies.
It didn't exist.
No, of course not.
So you'd be buzzed, right.
But it's a different head space.
And so that whole generation, not that whole generation, but the majority of that generation
fell in love with that experience.
And then Indica and 20 plus percent cannabis came along.
It was too much for them because it didn't do that same thing that they wanted.
Right.
And I, you know, and someone was talking a little in the baskets, full stuff with THCA.
You're kind of right, but it's like, you know, DJ, for example, like he was with LSD.
Right.
And so maybe the basket's not full with, you don't want to fill the basket with THC because
when you're putting LSD and THC in it together in moderate amounts, like it's a more pleasant
effect, at least for him, for him.
Yeah.
This is all about perception.
So it's just, you know, it's an interesting thing because essentially what's happened now
is that like the market with a 10% or a 12% flower, good fucking luck.
Yeah.
The market consumers, retailers, distributors are all going to laugh at you.
Yeah, totally.
Arguably, there's a whole class of people out there that would like that.
Oh, for sure.
Right.
For sure.
It's kind of like saying, hey, we're going to have liquor stores.
They're only going to sell things that are like 25 and above percent alcohol.
I get through all beer, all wine, all, you know, like coolers and all that kind of stuff.
That's a huge amount of like alcohol consumers or the people that like those products that
they don't want to sit down with a bottle of whiskey and like do shots or chugs or get.
Exactly.
Right.
So in a way, we're doing the market of the service and we're doing consumers of the service.
What's up, Vessel?
Yeah.
So I don't know.
Like I don't, you know, 20 people, 10%, 12% bud.
This guy likes 12% bud, what a pussy, you know?
Yeah.
Hey man, like not everybody's like you.
Like some people want to drink light beer, right?
Yeah.
I don't like getting baked stone at all.
I just don't.
I like to be able to, if I have to react to something, I want to be able to react as fast
as possible.
You know what I mean?
At any point.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, people are saying it's like, you know, not everybody wants that.
Some people don't want older people usually.
And it's true, but maybe like, you know, we could teach people how to use cannabis in
a way that some people might not want.
Like, even if you're a teenager, right?
Yeah.
And dude, I've seen it with friends.
Like I've seen them friends that like they start smoking a little bit of weed and then
they're like, yeah, it's fun.
And then they get into it and they start smoking more and they're fucking way too high.
Right.
And it doesn't, it impacts their life in a negative way.
Yeah.
Right.
So, and so I want more people using cannabis.
If they got to smoke something that's like, you know, half CBD and half THC, or even just
most of the CBD with a little bit of THC in it, like, you know, 5% THC.
I don't care.
Like I think that we should make cannabis for all people.
I do too.
When we've got the market that is this way, it just, it's not a good thing for the, for
it's not a good thing for consumers.
You know, there, there are scientific studies that show like mass consumption of THC for
at least some people, it's not a good thing.
Yeah.
And so what do we say?
Oh, sorry, you guys, you don't get to just, you're not allowed to benefit from it.
You're not allowed to benefit from this plant.
I think that doesn't make sense.
Right.
It's like, well, hey, how about I can make you something that does benefit?
I was like, that variety that I developed out of Mayprobe for the, with the beta-caryocanine
and the CBDV, right.
It was like, that was like, that plant had no recreational potential at all.
Like it was no fun for anybody.
Right.
But it was going to make a difference in some three-year-old's life.
Right.
And his mom is not going to be able to like give him a shit and he's not going to have
like 10 seizures a day.
That felt really fucking good, dude.
Right.
Being able to make that plant.
It felt really, really, really good.
Like I can't tell you the way it felt.
I can imagine.
I was more proud of that plant in a way than any high THC plant that I've ever made that
like has like a thousand more people using it or like 10,000 people smoking it.
Right.
So yeah, I'm all about making all types of candidates for all types of people.
And just because it's the one that like the majority of people doesn't like, that doesn't
mean that it's not an amazing thing.
Right.
So we got to, we got to make those plants.
Right.
Which is what somebody was saying about like, oh, you want to work for this company, big
bad company, man.
I'm not trying to help fucking rich people get richer.
Right.
I'm trying to fucking make medicines for patients or provide plants for patients to
change people's lives.
Yeah.
You either get it or you don't.
Right.
But that's the way I look at it.
And everybody's going to, you know, you're going to, people are going to look at what
I'm saying from another perspective and say, maybe it's bullshit.
So whatever, all I can tell you is my truth.
Yeah.
Well, I just want to thank you because you know, you guys like you, Red, DJ are all major
major factors in the path of my career as a seed maker and the few breedings I've done,
you know?
So thank you guys for establishing that path, you know, before me to try to push the boundaries
of blueberry.
And I still love your guys' stuff.
It still holds its own to today, even with all the stuff around.
It's not as popular in the market, but I mean, I grew some of that shit out recently and
it's every bit as good as a lot of the other stuff.
I could give a fuck about the market.
I mean, especially right now, I mean, the seed markets crashed, cannabis markets crashed.
Like right now, the people that are going to stick through it are the people that were
always going to stick through it, whether they were making money or not.
So I'm looking forward to that, at least shaking out some of the fucking shit.
And that's about all the good that's going to come from it.
But I got to leave you with something that Dave said, you know, Dave Watson, Sam says,
it's like we all stand on our shoulders as giants, right?
All of us, everybody that works with cannabis, we all got those seeds from somewhere, except
for the breeders who invented cannabis.
So that's the difference.
Yeah.
We got to respect the people that we got things from.
And, you know, all of us in our term pleasant that we have in our hands, it all came from
somewhere, right?
And sure, maybe we refined it a little bit.
Maybe we found some better plants and we propagated and changed around.
But all of us are beholden to the people that came before us.
Absolutely.
Well, I want to thank you for stopping by.
Thank you for illuminating us on the testing stuff.
I learned a lot myself.
That is something I've been very ignorant in is when it comes to testing and lab testing
and stuff.
So I really appreciate your time.
And thank you.
And I can't wait to have you back on.
My pleasure.
Thanks for having me in.
And listen, if there's more questions that we didn't answer about lab testing, hit up
Matt or hit up myself and we'll address it on IG or we'll do it again or we'll do it again.
We'll touch it up.
So is there anything you want to say before we go, like as far as where to get your seeds
for people in Canada, anything like that?
Breeders retail.
Unfortunately, even Canada is a shit show for seeds because of the legalization.
So breeders retail, if you want our seeds, reach out to me and I'll hook you up with
the breeders retail boys and we'll get you taken care of.
And yeah, keep growing seeds, support people like Matt, support the real ones in the industry.
You know, we got to eat too, right?
Yeah.
And it's like, it's not like I'm choosing new leather for the Lamborghini, you know,
and even like really like the seed industry is not what it was.
Everybody in the seed business is hurting in a way that I don't think people really
understand.
So definitely support those dudes that you can.
Someone's asking on Cunningfolk company, I sold them seeds.
They bought seeds for me so they're good folks.
Good deal.
And the stock is solid.
And let's throw a shout out to Red because that guy's fucking amazing.
I love that dude.
Listen, Red is one of the realest fucking people I've ever met in my life.
He is.
20 years.
And he is one of the most high integrity individuals that I've ever met in my life.
And he is absolutely a real one.
So yeah, he's got a new project out of Victoria, British Columbia on the island.
They got to grow there.
And so I think they're going to be doing some of your stuff.
Yeah, yeah.
And yeah, we got some good things lined up for them.
So anybody in the industry that's one of the good guys support them.
Absolutely.
We run businesses.
I think, I'm sure there's some people driving Lamborghinis, but the truth is that the vast
majority of us aren't.
And it's like we're just trying to get by like everybody else.
So definitely please grow seeds and support the people in the industry that you like their
content and that you respect their ethic.
So and I got to tell you one thing live.
Matt mentioned that we had a little bit of a falling out or a rough patch over the patent
thing.
I respect Matt.
He came to me.
I explained to him my position on the whole thing.
And he recognized that he didn't have the story right.
And he's been more than forthcoming about that.
And to me, that's all you can do.
Look, we're humans.
We're going to make mistakes.
Everybody's going to make mistakes.
Recognizing the mistakes and coming and saying, hey, I did the wrong thing.
To me, that means everything.
And he's a bro for life because of it.
Right.
So yeah, same here, man.
Yeah.
So yeah, well, I love having you, man.
Yeah.
Thanks for having me.
Absolute pleasure.
I'll talk to you soon.
And thank you for stopping by.
Yeah.
Much love to your viewers.
You guys all have a good evening.
Peace.
All right.
Cheers.
Cheers, guys.
Want more Breeder Syndicate?
Be sure to check out our Patreon by going to Google and searching Breeder Syndicate Patreon.
We have a secret Discord where we are available at most times and interact daily.
There are a lot of perks to be had there.
So check it out.
Need seeds?
Check out RiotSeeds.com where you can get our seeds and our reversal spray for making your own Feminize seed.
