Ready, go!
Welcome to Breeder's Syndicate.
Hi Greg, how you doing?
Good, good, good, good, good.
I mean, I'm not sure what to say.
I'm not sure what to say.
I'm not sure what to say.
I'm not sure what to say.
I'm not sure what to say.
But, you know, three healthy, three good.
I mean, I had just seven years and all that, good.
You know, your teeth fall out.
Your hair falls out.
You guys enjoy life, the travel when you're young.
That's far more fun.
I bet.
Yeah.
You're still around.
That's the important thing.
Well, you know, a lot of the brothers I served with, I'm one of the less remaining, you
I think that's a lot of the appeal in talking to you is your experience. Unfortunately,
a lot of your peers and colleagues are unable to share their stories. I have to thank you
as an indoor grower for all your horticultural contributions. Obviously, if it wasn't for
your work with the Northern Lights, many of us wouldn't have had the success we've
had today.
Well, it was kind of a group effort out of Seattle. We had the lights, and we were all
young and we're just hard-of-spoking Mexicans. It just wasn't doing anything for our PTSD
symptoms, and it wasn't even comparable to anything that we got in Asia when we went
to Thailand and Vietnam. It just didn't do it as well. We basically had to do it.
I lived in First Spell in Seattle. I lived in the Ballard area, and I was actually shopping
at the indoor sun shop for a few years. Around that time is when I learned about Steve Murphy
and his books. I'm curious, around what time did you meet Steve?
I went to high school with Steve, like at Ballard.
Oh, Ballard High School? Oh, great. So, yeah, I literally lived like two blocks away from
it. I was growing upstairs in the apartment that I was renting, but I knew that the history
was right in that area.
Oh, yeah. You know Kevin and the other Murphy family then?
I know Sean, Steve's son, and that's who I spoke to the most, Sean. Just trying to
ask him questions. Did you originally obtain the afghan from Steve Murphy?
Yeah, right after my first son was born, he invited us over to a party and he gave me
four seats of an Afghani variety he said that some friend brought back on vacation.
And that was the real widely-spread that was in his first book.
Yeah, yeah. I've got a picture of that. I was always curious.
Oh, yeah, that's the one he gave me. And then we crossed out with everything we could get
our hands on. We crossed it with Mexican, we crossed it with Thai, we crossed it with
a whole bunch of stuff. I got a whole bunch of seeds that we only got to basically use
about 1%, but you know, I mean, it was fun.
Was it the males that you got from those seeds that you crossed into?
No, we got two males and two females and we just made more seeds.
Okay.
And then we also basically took the seeds that we produced and then we put the available
in town, you know, which was Columbia. We did a lot of crossing up and then figured
it out real quick. We were never going to be able to test the whole thing. The cops
were banging on everybody's door and everybody got to jail. It was pretty chaotic.
I can't imagine at that time. So Steve, the Afghani you got from Steve Murphy, how does
that relate to Northern Lights 1? Did he call it Northern Lights or was it just an Afghani
name?
No, it's just, I came up with the Northern Lights. The original spelling of the Northern
Lights that we sent to Neville was like L-I-T-E-S. And then it got over to Holland and it's
just, this is Neville's cousin, Robert, was basically handling the catalog and he basically
like he changed the spelling, but the original spelling on the varieties that I named was
on the Northern Lights, L-I-T-E-S. But that's just a historical fact that everybody missed.
You spelled it L-I-T-E?
Yes. But Northern Lights, yeah, that's the name I gave to Neville and then he changed
it and we just kind of decided that was okay because it was already done in the catalog.
So how did you meet Neville?
I was over at my buddy's hair salon, you know, the University District?
That's by Fremont?
The University District. I mean, over there by Husky Stadium.
Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, I had a buddy that had a like hair salon that we'd hang out and kind of do things
and he always had a High Times for the people to read on the table while you're waiting
to get your hair cut. And there was a little ad in the back of the High Times, you know,
and that was Neville's first ad, I think.
That was the 84 year or so?
Yeah, I think so. So I sent him some seats and it's about six o'clock in the morning
and I get a phone call, the old lady announces a phone call and it's Neville saying,
I had a hard time tracking you down. And then we basically talked and he says,
man, I need some more of them indoor seats.
Man, those are just blowing the doors out of Rosenthal's.
And I thought, well, that's good, you know.
I mean, they're probably a lot fresher than this because I mean, my dad gave them the
seed collection.
Yeah, so you had given some previously to Ed?
No, that comes later.
Basically, we talked for a while and he offered to pay for my airfare over.
The first trip over to Holland was on a, was on like a Martin Airlines.
It was about $210 one way and it was a prop lane that took forever.
And they basically, they picked up the passengers in Oakland and by the time they got to
Seattle, they were already drunk.
And then the Seattle passengers piled on and we had about a 10 hour flight over to
Amsterdam. And by the time I knew everybody got there, we were pretty burned out and
everything. And I never was right there at the airport smoking a joint.
Unbelievable.
What year do you think that was?
I went over like in the early, it was like 84 and like 85.
But then I went back with the wife.
I mean, after he bought cannabis, gas.
So you went over the first year in 84 by yourself?
Yeah, in the fall and then we went back again.
And then I basically, I helped him.
It's just I do a lot of recipe for cannabis, gas.
I mean, because he had a little operation in his wine cellar in the basement.
He had a nice basement.
Oh, I bet. Have you ever been to Cannabis Castle?
Oh, no. I've researched a lot about it and certainly on the bucket list.
So did you share seeds with Neville multiple times or just when you found the ad of
his? I said, Neville, let me see two shipments.
There was one smaller initial shipment and then I went and I talked to him and I got
together with my people after I got back and then we shipped more.
I wasn't the only guy that was breathing.
You know, we have we have like a team because due to the police pressure, we
basically wanted to basically have.
All these grains and at least three people's hands in case I didn't know everybody
get busted, maybe we can keep it, you know, but it was I mean, it was a losing
battle. So what do you think?
What do you think the original cross was with Steve Murphy's Afghan that you guys
made with the Afghan to get more seeds?
I mean, he was maybe four feet, but we wanted to get more seeds.
Then we crossed it with everything.
Oh, yeah.
I mean, like a lot of action.
Of every first time.
Do you recall what the Northern Lights number one cross was?
The Northern Lights, the number one was basically
Steve's Afghani and then the Afghani that I got from Neville.
Do you know what Afghan from Neville that was?
The one he got in like a Mazari Sharif.
I was always curious about that.
I was always curious about that.
I mean, when he went over there with Clyde Curtis, the photographer out of
Hollywood. Yeah.
Yeah, did you you've heard of Clyde?
Oh, yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. I remember Neville told me lots of stories about how fucking wacky
that dude was, how crazy he was.
It's just yeah, it's just I like Clyde.
Nice guy, man.
But he's Hollywood.
You know, yeah.
A little different hood.
I think my friend Bodie still get friends with him, too.
I mean, it's just he's a marine.
I think I kind of lost that.
I mean, like he came up and then we kind of lost track of each other.
And I got a divorce and then I went underground.
So, yeah, it's just I mean, if you're here to see him around,
so say hi from me.
Oh, we'll do. Definitely.
Do you remember which one was the female or the mom from that Northern Lights one?
No, that was a one.
There's like a way too long ago.
And, you know, like at that point in time,
keeping the records was a I mean, like or any pictures or anything
like that, real liability because of all the cops, you know?
Oh, for sure.
I completely understand.
I completely understand.
So it's just the record keeping back then.
Now it's all changed.
You know, now we can basically be scientists.
Right.
Then
are the only people who could basically do that on a rational basis.
I was over in Holland.
That's why I went there.
Yeah. I mean, like it wasn't about the money.
It was to get the medicine for people.
That was the main mission.
Do do you have any memory of what the Northern Lights to cross was?
The Northern Lights to cross was a
was a cross that we did with
these Afghani, and then we got an Afghani
hybrid from gone down in Olympia.
That's the one that called the Indian.
Oh, yeah.
And he got it from some biker in Oregon.
It was a real nice.
I mean, like a little tighter, but then the Afghanis that we were working with.
I don't know.
I worked on got it from,
but it was a real nice one, and it was one of my
shoes, shorter ones, and we made that number two.
That's great.
And I said, that's great info
because those the one and two are some of the ones that Neville continued on.
Well, it's just when I went over to Holland, you know, they were doing some
I mean, there were some people breathing a lot with
of the number two, like Jay Jackson
did the K2, which was a real nice.
So if you might be asking, how did you meet Herbie Nelson?
I understand he was an employee of his.
Yeah, it's just what we want to Ballard to.
We all went to the same high school.
But we were you in the same class?
Uh, I don't think so.
OK, all I know is the way I went to Ballard, where we're all from Ballard.
You know, we all.
And what can you tell us about his Hawaiian plant?
Herbie. And I
basically traded some clones.
And he just said it was a
e-bath candy cross with the Hawaiian
sativa.
Oh, that's all.
Oh, that's all he told me.
And that's all I know.
But, you know, I mean, it was
I mean, it was an instant success all over the world.
I mean, it had the hype and vigor and it had what everybody wanted at the time.
You know, I mean, you were able to basically grow a 24 inch bud.
On about a five foot plat with that, and that was in
I mean, 84.
I mean, the winner.
I mean, it was a winner.
It was I mean, it was just one of them
flukes in nature, I think, where all the genetics
clicked and it all fell into place at the right time.
Sounds like it.
So that's the clone that you used to make Northern Lights number five.
I didn't make number five.
What Herbie did is by then we
crossed number five with the number one.
And, you know, I mean, it just gave us
the 50 percent sativa and about triple the vigor, you know.
So he crossed the clone that he gave you with the number one.
Yes, you're correct.
So was Herbie's did he have Steve Murphy's Afghani?
Is that the Afghani that's in number five?
Yeah. OK. Yeah.
I think that's what the confusion was.
Yeah, I was just trying to understand the history on that line.
So that that did you the clone that he had or gave to you
that was made from Steve's seed that was the Afghani? OK.
Yeah, that changed the fucking world, the genetics for good.
Yeah, I mean, like
I mean, like it won some cannabis cups for sure.
Yeah, I was real happy with it.
I mean, that way he bought cannabis castle with it.
Yeah, that's right.
You know, do you think it was a Hawaiian plant that Herbie had that he crossed
with Steve? I'm sorry. I'm having trouble following.
I have no idea.
And it's just I haven't talked to Herbie
and I don't know if he even wants to talk to anybody.
So it's just I don't know what the deal is there.
But, you know, I just just
I mean, it all happened a long time ago
and there's basically no written record.
But you guys are right about that.
There's been a lot of.
A lot of discussion about the Indian, the Indian,
but the Indian was gone down.
He's passed away years ago now.
So, oh, it's just we met Don when
by the guy that owns the hair salon, Raleigh.
The name was Raleigh.
Yeah, it was.
I mean, what he brings a guy over and what he was an injured
worker, a lot older guy.
But they weren't given enough money to be really good, right?
So we set him up with a four light operation.
And we gave him some seeds and some things,
and he did some breathing for us.
Do you know any of the lines that Don may have contributed?
Any of the dogs?
Don contributed
half of the genetics for the number two.
Yeah, that's true.
OK, and then we got
and then after I went over to the street level,
then we went down to Portland and we got the hash plant
and the big bird of a George.
Do you remember what time that was?
That was when this is right before
George did his first book with my
business with my youngest son on the cover.
Yeah, I have to look at the dates.
I know what you're referring to.
That's pretty cool.
When was the last time you spoke to George?
Last time I spoke to George was up in Vancouver
when I basically gave him all the lead I had left over
because I had to go to the border.
And that was years ago.
Many years ago, but we're good friends.
Everybody loves George, you know?
Yeah, I just spoke to him recently.
He was a wealth of good information.
He was very receptive.
And so that's why I'm interested in talking to everybody
from your generation all the years.
We traded with George.
I forget what we gave him.
I think we might have gave him the number five.
I don't know.
But he gave us a hash plant and then he gave us the big bird
of the hash plant was the one
that was a real good one, too.
That was a real favorite.
It was a real shitty yielder, but everybody loved the taste.
And I know that was the one that was sent to that Neville collected,
obviously, when he visited the States.
Yeah. Yeah.
I think he went down and sort of saw George and the people in Portland.
What do you think?
Do were you aware that Neville came in and visited the state?
Oh, yeah. We went down to the airport and saw Neville
and he was drunk and had his head up his ass.
He was with Roger.
I know who Roger is.
I've read the name. I don't know who he is.
Roger Gran, which I think is the spelling.
He was Neville's like American representative first and everything.
And he kind of he kind of flew into Seattle
and then he went down to see
Clyde in L.A.
And then he went down to Rosenthal's.
He was kind of like a Neville's agent in the beginning.
Got it.
So what airport did you see Neville at?
He was in a hotel.
Just east of SeaTac.
OK.
I'm not sure what one was a long, long time ago.
There's a lot of hotels on that road.
So do you think the purpose of that trip was to get more northern lights
or was he just coming for genetics in general?
I've got no idea what was in Neville's mind.
I mean, that's just that's way beyond my pay grade.
That's fair.
Thank you. I can tell him that's what it is.
Yeah, I'm just trying to piece together the history of all this.
What year did you think that you flew in?
It was like I knew, like, 85.
It was around Christmas time.
I remember that it was cold and nasty.
And then the kids were fidgeting and everything.
We didn't stay long.
I had to buy with the later.
Sure.
I mean, it's just like he asked me if I had anything for him.
I told him no. And that was kind of it.
So had you sent him the Northern Lights 5 clone before that trip?
Clones. Yeah.
I mean, this is a Roger came and he sent one.
I mean, over to Neville, we got I mean, I mean, we got him a clone
and you got one of these glass bowl, twirly and things.
It's a Florida shop and you
turn the leaves off so they weren't
serrated and that's how he got it over to Holland.
I was pretty genius.
Yeah. Yeah, that's right.
But it got there just fine.
But just just to recap, you said that Herbie made the NL5.
So when you got that clone, you were given it as NL5?
Yeah. Yeah, that was the NL5.
I was like finding like Herbie's
cook cross with the Hawaiian and
Pete Murphy's Afghani.
So you you didn't make the cross, you just got the clone from Herbie
at the top of the line to give to Neville?
Well, yeah, we took it to see.
And we gave him the seed first, but I mean, he wanted the original clone,
but we got him the original clone.
OK, so the seed Neville received came off Herbie's mom.
But the seed, I mean, it's just like he got
he probably like a what we cook cross with the number five.
Yeah.
OK, because what we did after we got the number five,
we basically began crossing it with everything we could get our hands on and look.
And it's just what we got looked real similar.
That's what went to Neville.
I mean, like about the same size with that like amount of vigor,
it was the rigor of that was the deal, you know?
I mean, it was the rigor and the taste.
And it was just far superior.
So we tried to we I mean, like a replicate that doing seeds and
and we've been working on it for a while.
But we I mean, you know, seeds are very clones aren't.
Totally. How long do you think you guys kept Herbie's clone around?
I lost that when the cops raided
Don lost that after his son
took over the operation and had some crop failures.
So it's just I don't know if anybody has the original quote quote, but then
I don't even know if Neville or or it's just, you know, Scott
is just Shanti Baba.
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Now they might have the original clone.
I mean, I don't I don't think anybody in Seattle does.
Oh, but you never know.
I mean, I'll talk to Steve Murphy.
Oh, maybe 20 years ago.
OK, so out of all the seeds that you guys made,
was there a favorite that stood out to you?
Yeah, we like the indica's, the shorter indica's, the number
the shorter ones with the what we were looking for
was more medicinal value
and quick turnaround.
So when you're talking about Don Dow, when Don, the Afghani hybrid,
was that a clone that he gave you?
Or those be?
We got both. OK.
And then Don also had something that he gave us
that he called Big Bud that was like it wasn't the same
as the Big Bud we got off of George.
Interesting.
And you guys are bringing the perfect.
I mean, it was fluffier and it had more oil content.
I think that was the number eight
of the ML number eight sheet.
So it was the real fluffy Big Bud that had all the oil glands.
So we used to go down to Don's and get a, I mean, like a pound or two.
And then all the people that come back and they dump it on the table
and they'd go for that number eight every time they could see the difference.
We mix it all together.
Usually, I mean, we're just doing a one to three light operation.
So the numbered one through ten or the number of northern lights
were those using these Afghani or the northern lights?
Number one that you made.
Both.
That just depends on the number.
The higher the number, the taller the plant.
That's how we kind of how I kind of determined it.
It's simpler for the devil with the more Afghani with the ones
and the more spasiva with the others, you know,
and the higher you got, the more spasiva.
How long have you been living in Hawaii, Greg?
I'm going to die here, man, I like it.
How long have you been there?
Oh, I mean, I was living in Sonoma County.
And the PUD was running the new programs, so we couldn't,
I mean, like a rip off KW is a day of power anymore.
So I decided to retire and move.
That was in 2010.
Do you know anything about the Nahomish Super Seed Club?
Yeah, it's something that was like started in the 90s,
a little group of growers up there that had a bunch of clubs.
No, I don't know.
The guy that talked to Mel up in Sonoma County would be John Pettit.
The guy that basically is at
Uber's, the scurvy thing where everybody was getting their supplies.
Yeah, that's a great place.
Oh, yeah.
Now you are.
Oh, yeah.
But you know, John.
I never I may have met him, I didn't realize I used to shop up there.
Those are the better place to get the wholesale supplies.
No, it's cheaper.
I mean, then the cost was.
John Pettit.
Yeah, yeah.
It's just I mean, it's just
it's a family operation up there.
It's John and his mom and his sister.
It's a whole family operation.
I used to I used to basically get everything up there
when I was working with the city of
Seattle when I got out of the Marine Corps.
Yeah, I loved my time up there.
That's the home of this beautiful farmer country.
Yeah, we were living in Arlington.
That's a little further north.
Yeah, it's nice.
No, I like being produced up there now.
Yeah, yeah.
I know the over production is going nuts.
And, you know, I mean, look what's going on in Oregon.
Pretty soon, they'll be selling concentrates for a buck a gram.
Yeah, it's certainly going that way.
It's a small farm.
But, you know, you guys are seed breeders.
That's a different game.
You know, it's just these big guys that I mean, they're going to
they can go indoors and make a killing and everything.
You can't compete with the sunlight in Mexico or the labor cost.
Oh, for sure.
So did you share northern light with the Droger family?
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's just like a band and keys, the whole collection.
I mean, this is how they were real helpful.
They gave us the fertilizer for you.
That's what we were interested in.
I mean, mainly it's just that we got never fertilized or
like, you know, we got Ben's fertilizer for a while.
I can know we came back to the US and we made our own fertilizer.
And it was a two part.
Oh, yeah.
Now we had a two part before General Hydro did.
I was called a wonder girl.
And now we got busted in the old AC freak town.
No, we got worse.
Interesting.
And it's just the rest is all history.
So do you ever have a fever with Dave Watson?
And Sam, I, you know, I mean, there's always been kind of
I'm better than you and I'm Sam, the man, you know,
I mean, he's always been a real disrespectful.
That's why I'm concerned.
I mean, he's done a good job, but my hat's off to him.
I mean, it's just like he can take his ego off.
I feel, too.
Yeah, I think that's the universal opinion.
He didn't have many friends.
Well, you know, I mean, I just like to be real.
Now I'm old enough and I served my time.
And I mean, I mean, I bled for like free speech, you know?
Yeah.
I mean, I'm not going to say anything.
I'm not going to say anything.
Yeah.
Was it the grow light?
Yeah.
Was the ad the grow light shop ad you're talking about?
We spent about half an hour at my house out in the shoreline district,
and then we went to a concert up at Parker's Ballroom.
And we watched Quick Silver Messenger service.
Oh, yeah, they're great.
OK, yeah, we kind of and then he met all my people from Seattle.
And then basically after that was when Green Merchant.
That happened and everybody got busted.
You know, it was sent everybody into shock mode.
Did Bob respond to a speed ad or a lighting ad in the magazine?
We had a company and everything.
Bobear was going to basically handle all of the paperwork over in Holland.
Holland.
We were going to have just we were going to mail receipts out of the US
and collect the money in Holland.
But that never worked out because cops raided us.
Gotcha.
That was the ad was for put in a Cinchimilla tips for seeds, though.
Yeah.
Remember what year that was?
It was 85 or 86, I think.
Alexander's old, I mean, my old copies.
I think we might have.
Yeah, I have.
Yeah, yeah, it was.
I feel like it wasn't a big ad.
And then Rob, he came up and yeah, no, you guys are the new guys on the block.
And this and that, you know, you know.
And we told them, you know, I go like you and Sam down in California, man, you do.
I mean, it's just you can't breathe like we do indoors, man.
And you guys do.
I mean, it's just I mean, like a one quarter of a year and we do six.
You know, and he didn't like that very much.
So, you know.
How did you meet George?
I just called him up, I think, after he began writing in I-Times.
Oh, I called him up.
I mean, it's just like he knew everybody down in Portland.
That's when I mean, Le Hydro Tech and George were having, I mean, it's just a light wars on the Portland TV stations.
How did you meet Wolfie Gahl?
Wolfie I met at Le Hydro Tech.
He worked for Kevin.
They were on Aurora.
Okay.
And then it's just like and then they opened up the Portland store and then like Wolfie got busted.
He did a bunch of times.
Kevin got busted, but he did five years.
And I went underground.
You were smart?
I mean, it's just I went underground.
I mean, like I had an old lady and a couple of kids and then, you know.
Yeah, no kidding.
You didn't need name that shit.
Thank God for Jeff Steinborn.
I mean, he kept a lot of us out of jail.
That's right.
You mentioned him, the lawyer that kept everyone out of jail.
Yeah, he was like, I mean, he was like a gift from above.
Everybody loves Jeff.
Everybody still loves Jeff.
Even the prosecutor loves Jeff.
So do you think Steve ever got to experience any of the Northern Lights crosses you made?
I mean, I didn't hang around with Steve all that much.
It was by the street of the store, you know.
But there wasn't a lot of interaction.
Was he actually selling seeds out of the shop or was it just because you guys?
No, no, no.
It was, I mean, it was a gift.
I don't think he, I don't think anybody was selling seeds out of the store.
The manager, Jerry, did you meet Jerry?
The older guy that does the carnivorous plants?
It's not ringing a bell.
He was Steve's manager at the indoor sun shop for, I mean, like a decade.
I mean, he was their boss.
Jerry, I don't remember the last name.
You know, Alzheimer's is a bitch.
You know, when the brain cells start rotting, boys.
Enjoy yourself while you can.
You have a pretty sharp memory.
Yeah, yeah.
I was going to say, you've got a better memory than I have.
And I'm in my 30s.
I mean, it's all this good, bad, and smoking noise.
It's a testament to the THC.
Yeah, but it takes, I mean, it takes a real beating on the lungs, man.
They wanted me to be a judge in the cannabis contest, man.
I don't want to be up there hacking all the time.
I mean, that's the last thing I want to do.
You don't want to smoke anyway.
I mean, that's the last thing I want to do in public is be hacking and overdosing.
Vote for me, everybody.
Like, I mean, like Emory did when he got out of the joint.
So do you know what any of the other crosses are?
Any of the other numbers?
Like, some of their parents?
No, we didn't keep any records.
I wish we could have, you know, but it just, uh, Jeff told us, you know.
I mean, everything you have, they're going to use against you.
So the less you have as opposed to this or that or that.
And he kept telling everybody, you know,
keep the plant count down and don't get greedy, you know.
Sounds like he's a smart man to listen to.
Well, if you had one light, it was one thing.
If you had 20 lights, then they considered it a lot more serious.
And it's just the ones they wanted to get off the street was, uh,
was these guys that were doing these big operations.
And we're also into the harder drugs.
Yeah. Yeah.
That's generally the case.
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. It's always been that way. So it's just, uh.
Well, yeah, they carried the same penalties pretty much back then.
So, you know, if one got more money than the other,
most people fucked with all of them.
I mean, it's just all the blankers were some of our best customers.
Oh, I bet.
I think they almost, I mean, kind of demanded to get their name on it.
Hey, man, you fell in love.
I mean, you know, it was a, I mean, it was a real valuable commodity.
It's not like now, you know, then you had to get your name on the list.
And if you didn't know somebody, I knew you could get your name off the list.
You know, exactly.
I had people coming out from all over the place.
They flew in from Chicago and Virginia and all over the place.
And, you know, I couldn't do anything with them.
I mean, death cops were everywhere.
And I'm sure everybody's going with the path, you know,
we kind of had to play dumb.
And, you know, I got an old lady and two kids.
Now I can't jeopardize.
Oh, but now how are all these, how are all these people?
You know, it's the difference between, I mean, it's just a night.
I mean, like a lighten day.
So, you know, you guys, you guys have a real opportunity and have done really well
with the varieties that are coming out of the USA.
Cause this is where Ben's coming to get his genetics now.
How did all these people find out about Northern Lights?
Was it just through the ads that you guys are publishing?
Or how are they coming out from Chicago and these areas?
We ran, I mean, a couple of ads, fertilizer and rock wool for a while.
Until the feds closed us down.
Oh, that was more trouble than it was worth.
So how many people were you saying involved that were in the bringing of Northern Lights?
You said it was a group of people?
Well, it was a core group.
And then there was, I mean, it's just, that's hard to say.
That's hard to say.
I mean, there were people that came and went.
So it's just, it would be up around the actual group.
Basically it just kept changing because everybody was in and out of jail.
So it's just like, it's hard to put a number on it.
I understand.
I understand.
Well, I really thank you for all your information.
I think you have addressed all of my main questions after reading some posts at Mr. Knight's forums.
I hope that Matt and I can continue to reach out to you with any questions we may come across in our research.
Okay. Anyway, you guys have a nice afternoon or evening.
Sure.
And you too, brother.
Feel free to call any time.
Thank you so much, Greg. We genuinely appreciate all the time and all the access.
Okay. Bye.
I mean, Dutch, they come here for the genetics.
Now, it used to be the other way around.
It was all meant to happen, you know?
