Welcome to Breeder Syndicate 2.0 where we explore the history of a clandestine scene.
Researching everything from cannabis strain history, old smuggling tales from the first person perspective,
to breeding science and news on current subculture.
I'm your host Matthew, and I'll occasionally be joined by my homie NotSoDog, breeder and grower from Mendocino,
to speak on these subjects and sometimes interview other participants.
Our goal is to document this history before it's written by corporations and others who just weren't there.
Let's start righting some wrongs. Welcome to the underground.
Welcome Breeder Syndicate! I'm here with my buddy Kendo.
He is an old school forum member, old school breeder, old school grower, and...
Anything else I'm forgetting?
Nah, just uh... you've named it off bro.
Martial art is badass.
He's an old school truth teller is the best way that I could explain this.
An old school critical thinker from the forums and an old school truth teller.
And it's an honor to have him here. I've been wanting to get him for a long time and I think you guys will enjoy this.
So we'll start it off now.
So you know, just talking about the pre-forum days, you know, when I was like 15 years old,
I did my first grows up in the hills above San Jose.
Okay.
And it was good. I mean, you know, at that point I had learned how to grow pot, but I had no idea, you know, what I was growing and any of that type of stuff.
So I went up to Berkeley. There was this underground record store, right?
What year are we talking?
1975.
Geez. All right. Let's go.
75.
Way back then.
But me and a buddy went up to this underground record store in Berkeley and they had this little or a group of these little cliff note hippie gorilla grow guides.
Yeah. Right. So it's just like this, like five inches by four inches, maybe 20 pages that hippie had put together that, you know, described essentially how to set up a gorilla grow.
You know what I mean?
Was it the old cultivators book with a little girl watering can on the front?
No.
Okay.
No, no.
All right.
This was just like with, you know, like some art paper.
And it was crude, but it was really helpful, man.
Awesome. Yeah.
And so, you know, I found a spot, man. I got some seeds, found a good spot that was in a dry wash.
So, you know, the soil was good.
It had a springs fed little runoff above, right?
So I had water that I could bring down and everything turned out good.
It was a it was really beneficial that it was a long, hot summer because, you know, again, you know, I didn't I didn't know much about strains at that point.
Blah, blah, blah. And so I had grown some some Maui and some Colombian.
We're talking long, long term genetics.
Yeah. Long flowering, man.
So they weren't they weren't ready until almost the end of November.
Yeah. We only saw two rains during that entire time.
That's nice. Lucky.
Right. I didn't even know how lucky I was until much later, obviously.
Yeah, yeah. Of course. But it turned out beautiful. Really, really good.
You know, I got it. I got it all down. Got it all transported because it was way back in the mountains, way back in the hills.
Right. So it was all, you know, packing it myself, packing in the dirt myself, doing all that.
You know, at that point, pretty much all we saw was was, you know, brickweed.
Yeah. I mean, some good Colombian, Guerrero, some different stuff like that.
Right. But yeah, for the most part, it was all just with seeds and shake and yada yada.
So, you know, I made a splash in my neighborhood. Right.
I did. And it was a couple of guys. My brother, my brother was older, like eight years older.
So we had some friends who were growing. And, you know, it was it was really, you know, good for me to take my weed to them, smoking with them.
You know, and they were they were talking about how good it was. I got the kendo name for a long time because my martial arts. Right.
Yeah. Yeah. Right. So the one guy, they called him the doctor. Right.
He was like, man, this is some green wizard shit. Right. So the name just stuck. Right. Yeah.
And from then on, you know, I was known as Kendo, the green wizard. Right. But that's awesome.
You know, that girl turned out really good, man. And then, you know, over the years after that, I would, you know, going back in the mountains, pack my dirt in, you know, grow my plants, do my thing.
And it was good. And, you know, back then I didn't tell anybody I was growing weed.
Yeah. Yeah. Somebody wanted somebody wanted some weed. I'd be like, yeah, I can get you something. Yeah. I'll go to the guy. Yeah. Give me your money. I'll be back. Right.
And then bring back my stuff. Right. Yeah. And it worked out well. Worked out really, really well.
A good little story from those days was I was back in this in this park. Right. It was like a state park or county park. And they had miles and miles of trails.
So I went way back down this trail, got off of the county land into some other land. And there was some some some brush and some trees. And so, you know, I would do like six plants in each area.
Yeah. So I got a spot where I had six plants growing. And I always had an alternative way to walk. I would never walk directly to my grill. Right.
Sure. So I walked and it was up above the site. Right. It was, you know, maybe maybe a hundred feet up above the site. And I'm sitting up there in this little spot.
And I'm having my lunch, looking down and I see some movement. Right. And I'm like, oh, shit. What the hell is that?
Maybe it's, you know, a deer or something. Right. No, man. Somebody some dude gets up from where he was hiding, goes and obviously goes in, takes a leak. Yeah. Comes back. Yeah.
And then I see somebody else right trying to be all stealthy in the bushes, too. Well, you know, cops, obviously cops, man, because they're hiding.
Yeah. So I was like, well, fuck this. I'm out of here. So I stashed what I had. You know what I mean? I had my backpack. I stashed everything that I had that was grill related. I had some duct tape, some scissors, you know, some other stuff.
I stashed all that and then walked back around my little trail, got on the actual trail and started going back to where I was going. Kind of walking fast. Right. I didn't want to run. I was walking fast.
So, you know, I keep looking back, keep looking back and I see them coming from behind me. I was like, well, fuck, I'm fucked. What am I going to do, man? Yeah. So I'm all nervous, dude, because, you know, this is back in the day when, you know, you're going to fucking prison, man.
Yeah, for sure. So I'm all nervous, man. And I had to take a shit. Literally, I get those. I get the nervous shit, man. Dude, my stomach was rumbling, bumbling. I was like, nope, if I keep going, I'm going to shit myself. So I just stepped off the path a little bit, man, in the bushes, dropped my hikers shit target. Right. I don't know if you know about those.
Shit. Right. So I drop it down, drop my pants. I start taking a shit. So, you know, maybe two minutes later, maybe less. Right. These guys go by and they pass me up and then stop and come back. Put your hands up. Put your hands up. Hey, man, I'm sitting here. What are you doing? Put your hands up. Put your hands up. I'm like, if I put my hands up, I'm going to fall down, man.
In my shit.
I'm trying to take a shit. And the dude looks, he sees that I'm actually taking a shit. And he's like, well, finish up then. Hurry up. Move slowly. I'm like, all right, man, no problem. So I wipe, you know, I pull the target together. Right. Because you got the little strings.
Yeah.
Make a little, little container out of it.
A little shit container.
Little poop container. And so the guys, the guys like come over this way slowly. Right. Is that your backpack? I'm like, that's my backpack. Well, come on. So then he tells me, let me see your hands.
Yeah.
I'm like, I ain't getting poop on my hands, man. You know, I'm gonna miss your hands. Right. Because back then we all use the blue stuff. Right.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Like the 10-52-10.
Yeah.
When you're mixing up, if you're fucking with it, right, that shit would stain the shit out of your hands. Right.
Oh, shit.
So he's looking at my hands. Right. I got no blue on my hands. I got no poop on my hands. I'm like, what are you doing? I'm like, bro, I'm hiking. He's like, we didn't see you. We were back over so and so, such and such.
I go, well, I only went so far and I saw that that was the end of the trail.
Yeah.
I turned around and started walking back. He's like, well, you know, this is a dangerous place. I'm like, danger? I mean, I mean, I know there's mountain lions and such out here, but, you know, danger? I mean, what are you guys asking?
Well, we're looking for some illegal marijuana growers and you got to be careful because those illegal marijuana growers, man, they're dangerous.
They can set up some booby traps and some other stuff. I'm like, yeah, I hate those fucking marijuana growers, man. Fuck those guys.
All right, just go on. Go on down the trail. Just be careful. Don't come back this way again. Know that we're about to be right. And I'm like, all right, all right. I'm sorry. I'm sorry to mess up your investigation.
Yeah, right.
I'm walking away. I'm laughing, bro. I'm fucking just laughing my ass off. Right. Well, obviously, I lost those plants. Right. Yeah. And I had three more spots, so it didn't matter.
Yeah.
But that was that was some funny shit, man.
What was the old the old thing like plant one for you plant one for these plant one for cops type deal?
Yeah. Yep. Yep. Yep. And it was also plant plant another one for the wildlife.
Oh, that's true. Yeah. You got rabbits and deers.
Rabbits and kangaroo rats and you name it, bro. They were taking it right. But rats. I would take chicken wire.
Yeah. And I would make a basket. You know what I mean? And then the basket would be two feet above the soil line. You know what I mean? So now you got a basket that's like two and a half feet down into your hole that you dug.
And then you got it two feet up above and I would take it and, you know, you always I would always take off the bottom branches. Yeah. You know, that's just grow one on one. And, you know, then fold it in a little bit so that it was maybe, you know, eight to 10 inches around around the the the main stem.
Yeah. Yeah. So that stops rabbits. It stops kangaroo rats. That stops gophers. You know, it's not going to stop the deer. But yeah.
Those fuckers girdle like they they strip the bottom base of your plants for people that don't know, like rats will just strip it and they do it once and it'll kill the whole plant instantly.
Well, they do that on purpose because they want to knock the plant over.
Is that why they do it?
Because they can only reach so many of the leaves down low.
I didn't realize that. I was like, why did they always just target that base? Sucks.
Yeah. They want to knock it down.
That makes sense. That's how it does.
Yeah. And then they get all the leaves off of it, man. Fucking rabbits, man.
It's right. But yeah, I mean, you know, it was a.
It was it was an adventure, man. You know, I don't know if you've ever seen Brown Dirt Warrior.
So it's a guy from Canada and he did a bunch of he did a bunch of videos where he would he would go out and show people how he was gorilla growing.
You know, you have like two big bags of sunshine mix on each shoulder and, you know, hike his way five, 10 miles into the bush and blah, blah, blah.
And I mean, that's really what it's like. Yeah. It's literally what it's like, you know, and I got some more.
I would let my I would let my my sunshine mix dry the fuck out to be light.
So it'd be light. All right. Because, you know, in the beginning, it's OK. Twenty pounds. Right.
Yeah. Let it lighten up. It's like five pounds. Now, of course, you got to you got to moisten the shit out of it afterwards. Right.
Yeah. But I would just cut my bag in half and then just fill it. Fill each half with water.
Yeah. Let it soak it up. Do that a couple of times, man. And now you're you're peat and all your forest product is all nice and hydrated again.
No, no. That's actually really good advice, too.
Yeah. You know, it worked out. I mean, not many people are gorilla growing anymore.
They do. You have a lot of people who watch this show do. Really?
Yeah. This is good advice, man.
You know, because, you know, once you get out, once you get back there, man, it's you know, it's it's easy to hydrate it.
It's just impossible to get it back there. Right. It's crazy. Right.
And, you know, I did a lot of I did a lot of crazy different gorilla girls, man.
I did some that were, you know, all the way up on the top of a ridge with the water source.
It was down at the bottom. And what I do is I just took old waterbeds and took them to the top of the ridge.
And then I would get down below and had an OG foot pump that I hooked up to a bicycle pedals.
You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah.
Then I would just sit down and just, you know, peddle the water and peddling and fill everything up, man.
Fill it all up. It worked out well. And I mean, that's a must.
The waterbeds, because there was a I don't know if you know, Mad Jag.
He used to be on the forums. I see Mag and he was an old grower back in the day.
Gorilla grower in the late 70s did the first big skunk one grows.
Then he gave me this old is old catalog and it was for gorilla growers and it was from the late 70s, early 80s.
And it had these big inflatable like like basically waterbed innards that you would fill up with water for a gorilla growing.
But waterbed is perfect. It's the same shit. Just pump it down.
Yeah. And then I was covering with leaves, you know, I mean, cover the waterbeds with leaves.
And then I would grow I would grow down the backside, the south facing side of these ridges.
Right. Because, you know, it was I was growing in an area that had a decent amount of hunters.
Yeah. But if you know, if the incline is as such, you don't have to worry about hunters going down there.
Yeah. They don't want to go around there. Yeah. And it was I mean, the incline on this this particular spot that I was doing that at.
I would I would actually tie off a rope to a tree at the top and then just work my way across to the different plants.
You know what I mean? Because, yeah, it worked out. Well, this is long before we had camp or any of that.
Didn't have to worry about helicopters or anybody coming swooping in on your shit.
Blah, blah, blah. When campfire came in, I was actually I would get on a south facing hillside and then tuck my plants up underneath the oak trees.
Yeah. Right. So, you know, you still get that south facing, you know, good sunlight on your plants, but they're kind of stealthy up underneath the oak trees.
Yeah. So you really couldn't you really couldn't see them. And I never you know, I lost I lost a few plants here and there, you know, to to people because, you know, as I go in, if I saw any recent tracks or areas that were apparent that people were moving around in that area.
I just walk. I just let them go. It's not worth it, man. It was just not worth the prison time, bro. Yeah. Some people get that greed and think about all the work and just like I can't walk.
But that's what keeps people safe. You know, you got to be smart. You got to be smarter. I wasn't I wasn't prepared to go to prison.
So when I first started, man, it was I got in a lot of fights as a kid, right? Yeah. Wearing glasses, you know, when taking a shit, I grew up in Oakland. And so when I moved to this little town, I was a little bit more conservative.
Right. And it really worked. And so I got in a lot of fights. Right. Like Bakersfield. Pardon? Like Bakersfield, all the farm guys and yeah.
Pardon?
It's like Bakersfield, all the farm guys and yeah, that's how I grew up.
Yeah.
Oh yeah, bro.
And so, you know, my parents put me into karate
in hopes that it would teach me discipline.
And restraint.
Keep me from fighting. Right?
Yes.
It worked to a degree, right?
Yeah. It worked to a degree, but it also didn't work to another degree.
Right. I didn't get in trouble anymore.
Right. Because people were afraid to touch you and turn me in.
But I started off doing taekwondo.
Right.
And that's where the kendo came in.
Right? Because we would work with kendo sticks.
Kendo sticks.
Yeah.
And I loved it, bro.
I was good at it.
And I love whipping that shit in here.
And I go, crack, crack.
Yeah.
It was great.
But then I got into what's known as kajikembo with a school called Crazy Dragons.
Okay.
And essentially, Crazy Dragons was Cobra Kai.
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
We were Cobra Kai.
Yeah.
Bad guys.
Oh, yeah.
Fuck around.
We were Cobra Kai.
And it was featured on Fight Quest.
I don't know if you've seen Fight Quest.
Yeah, yeah. I have.
I have.
So it's a Fight Quest feature, kajikembo.
You know, we would learn how to fight one-on-one.
Then it was two-on-one.
Then three-on-one, four-on-one, five-on-one.
All street fighting.
No mercy.
No mercy karate.
No mercy.
Kajikembo is five different arts combined together.
So it was the first mixed martial art and it was the first American martial art.
It came out of Hawaii.
Yeah.
So it was great, dude.
It was really good.
I enjoyed the hell out of that shit, man.
See, I'm so far into martial arts and the history that like this fascinates me.
This part of it fascinates me.
You know, I started off as a Shotokan kid at Way of Japan here with Abe Bellardo, the sensei.
Nice.
But I was a kid like I got put in the same reasons.
Parents saw me fighting a bunch and thought wanted me to have some restraint.
But what it taught me was you don't just unload on everyone.
You unload on those that are assholes and bigger than you.
You never fight someone smaller than you, you know, shit like that.
That's what the discipline I learned, but I eventually got kicked out for street fighting.
Yeah, I ended up becoming the bully of the bullies.
Yeah, that's what I did.
Yeah, and I'm short.
The guys that were bullies, man, I take it to them.
You know what I mean?
And you know, I do because I see that you took that to the forums too.
And as we venture into there, this is why like I really for people that don't know
like I have spent a long time on the forums myself, but Kendo was on the forums before
my time and there are there throughout the history.
There hasn't been a lot of people that have given pushback to scammers, the liars,
the con artists.
Kendo was the pre pre Matt, right?
Long before I existed.
Kendo was holding it down hard.
So I really want to go into some of that too, because it's special moments, important
moments, and there wasn't a lot of dudes who had the balls to do it because it's not
fun being that person, but it's necessary.
Well, you know, man, being at it for such a long time.
I mean, I was a web guy in the 80s before the internet was even created, right?
It was back in the BBS days, right?
When I was in bulletin board services and discussion boards, right?
Yeah, there was no GUI.
There was nothing like that, right?
Yeah, and I learned how to troll from guys at that time, right?
Learning how to troll just with words.
Yeah, you know what I mean?
Just with words, just to get people going and get people on edge, right?
Get them exposed themselves.
Get them doing that kind of stuff, right?
But before we get into that, let me just do a little bit more of the-
Yeah, yeah, I was cracking.
... preform, right?
So when I was like somewhere around 18, man, I met one of the Hayes brothers up in
Santa Cruz.
No shit.
Oh, yeah, bro.
Way back in the day, way, way back in the day.
Okay.
It took a liking to me, right?
I was a kid.
I was growing some good weed, not great weed, right?
Is this RL?
Pardon?
Is this RL?
No.
Okay.
No, no.
And he wasn't, I mean, there was a whole group of guys who were part of that
crew, right?
You see the thing behind me, the Hayes brothers poster?
Yeah.
Got it right up behind me.
Yeah.
Yep.
I like that, bro.
Part of the quest.
Part of the quest, man.
Yeah.
And so, you know, I met him.
I was actually kind of sort of dating this guy's niece.
You know what I mean?
Okay.
So I went up to a picnic and, you know, blah, blah, blah.
There was all the family there.
You know, I busted out some of my weed and they liked it and then they busted out
some of their weed and I fucking loved it.
I was like, wow, this is, you know, this is, this is like three steps above my
shit, bro.
This is incredible.
So the guy took a liking to me and I went up and I helped him, I helped him
trim.
I helped him do some stuff and back in the day, it wasn't the same.
It wasn't a California trim, right?
He was taking, take the big leaves off and, you know, and he made the smaller
sugar leaves, right?
But he took me with him as he went up to Mendo and Humble and Trinity, right?
And so I went back, I didn't go all the way through to Spirock, right?
But we went back in that area and, you know, a lot of other places and it was
really interesting, right?
You didn't trim for money, you trimmed for weed.
Yeah, that's right.
Come back with a, you know, a big, you know, contractor bag full of buds.
You know what I mean?
After trimming, which was cool because dude, it was 70 fucking, 70 bucks for a
quarter, right?
Right.
Right.
And so that's a lot of money, man.
I was happy, but yeah, so I met that guy and I went through a lot of other stuff,
man.
And, you know, then, you know, I did my, did my, did my gorilla growing for a
while and then Cali Medical hit.
And when, when Cali Medical hit, you know, we got some licenses.
Or 2003?
95.
95?
Goddamn, man.
It was way back.
Yeah.
Yeah, it was 95.
And I had been, I had been doing, you know, the, the 215, getting signatures
for the 215 and doing a bunch of stuff, working with a lot of the guys, Dale
Gerlinger, some of the other guys who were, you know, the, the leaders of that,
that movement.
And it was great, man.
I was, I was real happy to do that, but I started growing in my backyard, right?
And it was, it was fantastic, man.
I just got like four, I got four, you know, four licenses from other people.
And, you know, I'm growing in my backyard.
I got no worries.
I'm not, I'm not scared of nothing, man.
Growing great plants right there.
It was fantastic, man.
And then I looked up with some of my brother's old friends and they were
growing out in this area back behind Livermore, California.
Okay.
And, you know, California, you know, but a lot of people don't know.
California is mainly, mainly badlands, dude.
It's, it's a lot of nothing, rattlesnakes, cougars, you know.
A lot of desert, dude.
A lot of desert, a lot of scrub, scrub oak, tumbleweeds.
And, you know, it just, it's, it was way back there.
This operation was way back there.
And I affectionately call it Crazy Krusty's Cannabis Co-op.
Okay.
And, you know, I did, I did good back there, man.
But there was some, there was some clowns growing weed back there, bro.
I mean, there was, there was one set of guys, man, you know, I'm not going to
name names, but there was one set of guys.
They thought growing weed was taking a, a post hole digger.
You dig out one full post hole spot, right?
Maybe, you know, 16 inches deep and then dropping a one gallon pot in there.
Oh no.
That was their version of growing weed.
So you can imagine it was, it was horrible.
Yeah.
Another guy was growing lollipops, right?
This plant should be about this big around.
Literally.
Yeah.
At full turn.
As wide as the pot, man.
They can't grow out.
Just ridiculous, man.
So it was funny, dude, but I did really, really good up there on that, on that
spot and made a bunch of money.
But in the interim, you know, as before we even got up there is when I was
introduced to Overgrow, right?
So now we'll start with the forums, man.
Overgrow was really interesting to me, right?
Because, you know, prior to that, it was, you know, I, I had not had exposure
to, you know, just outright talking about shit online.
Nothing.
Yeah.
No, no, not at all.
And so when I started at Overgrow, it was like, oh one, 2001.
And, uh, and, uh, I just lurked.
I lurked for a little over a year.
You know what I mean?
Just learning, doing things.
Do that, you know, don't want to interact yet, but like, I think that's a lot of
the old school method that you sit down, you listen and you learn before you
jump in.
So you don't look like an ass, you know, but that's not how most people operate.
And so, like you said, bro, I started, I started noticing a lot of inconsistencies.
You know what I mean?
And my gut and intuition was telling me, you know, this guy's a scammer.
Yeah.
This person's scamming.
That's, that's bullshit.
That's not right.
You know, but I still hadn't started posting.
Right.
Yeah.
So as time went on, I was like, all right, I'm just going to post some stuff.
Right.
And, and I started actually posting in the political forums.
That's where I started posting.
Right.
Cause you know, I'm, you know me, I'm a political guy.
Oh yeah.
I can't help it, man.
But, uh, you know, after I got my legs, you know, from posting in the political
forums, you know, I felt comfortable and, uh, I started going after some of these
guys and pointing out that, you know, I thought they were scammers and, you know,
didn't trust what they were saying.
And at that point I started getting blowback from the moderators.
Yeah.
Because these guys, well, these guys were, uh, they had, they had people fooled.
You know, everybody thought that the coolest, nicest, most friendly guys, or
they were people that were so much in need.
You know what I mean?
My whole world fell apart and yada, yada, yada.
Yeah.
And as you know, the forum back then, everybody wanted to help everybody.
Right.
Always.
Yeah.
And it was cool.
Right.
And I, I helped a lot of people, right.
But a small community, people that cared about each other.
Yeah, absolutely.
But when your gut, you know, when your intuition and your instinct, you know,
sets an alarm off, right.
I trust that shit big time.
Yeah, dude.
So I would start questioning these guys, you know, tell me, tell me more, tell me
more.
If I'm going to do something for you, you got to explain to me how this came about.
Cause it's not making a lot of sense to me.
So then people would come back and be, well, you're a dick, you're a chump.
Why are you doing this?
What's your problem?
Yeah.
Bad vibes, bro.
So at that, exactly, exactly.
So at that point now I'm already raising, you know what I mean?
Awareness to me being a dick, you know what I mean?
And yada, yada, yada.
So I was like, all right, whatever, whatever's clever.
I don't care, man.
Yeah.
So then, you know, I'm thinking about how I'm going to shake things up a little
bit.
Yeah.
However, how am I going to shake things up over here, man?
So I posted up a thread called IP on my plants.
Classic.
Even, even during my time, I knew.
Looking down, right on my plants and I'm holding a water bottle out of sight,
right?
With a hole in the front of it and I'm squirting the plants down, but it looks
like I'm actually peeing on my plants, right?
Peeing on your plants.
Yeah.
The whole, the whole premise of the thread was about how much people were
using urea products.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
And it was just a joke, you know what I mean?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Urea, you know what I mean?
And it was just a joke.
And before you knew it, man, it just started taking off.
Oh, you're disgusting.
What the hell is your problem?
I can't believe you.
I would never smoke your weed.
No fucking way.
What's wrong with you?
And it just started taking off, bro.
I mean, literally just started taking off.
And by the end of that thread, it had, there was only a couple of other threads
that were even close, right?
But it had the most activity of any thread on Overgrow.
That's so funny.
Thousands and thousands of replies and comments and, you know, hates and loves.
And, oh yeah, it was a joke, dude.
It was a joke.
Some people got it, right?
And most people didn't.
Most people didn't.
And then other people just wanted to be, be chumps about it, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So then, you know, at that point now, I'm feeling real comfortable.
I'm like, fuck it.
I'm going to start commenting on everything.
I don't care.
I'm just commenting all over the place and I'm gaining all kinds of people and
friends and doing this and that.
And I gained the, the site of the Shark's Tank.
Okay.
Do you remember the Shark's Tank?
No, no.
It was before my time.
So the Shark's Tank was, was like the, the spot for Overgrow where they could
send the trolls.
It was a place where they could have uncensored content.
Yeah.
Without, without having to do that.
And they could, you know, they would send the trolls to the Shark's Tank, right?
Yeah.
So there was a lot of guys over there that were, you know, really good trolls, man.
Oh, I'm sure.
So, so they did not, they did not like me.
Juice and a bunch of these other guys who were over there.
Yeah.
They took side of me, right?
Yeah.
So they, they essentially set me up.
Yeah.
And came at me real hard.
And, you know, on Overgrow, they had a hard moderation policy.
And I had already, you know, gained the attention of a bunch of the moderators.
So when I started calling people names, you know what I mean?
Yeah.
I got banned.
Yeah.
Right.
I got banned.
Right.
And so then, you know, I was, I was pissed.
I was, I was real pissed.
Oh yeah.
But I, you know, I was like, all right, whatever, man, whatever.
So then I, I started at Cannabis World and I rejoined Overgrow as Sir Buds Alive.
And, and then, uh, and then I got a message at, at Overgrow from Pluralamongoose.
Oh, you heard of Plural?
Dude, he snitched on the whole world, bro.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He's, he was Silk Road.
He was the guy who taught Silk Road guy.
Oh, I know.
Oh, I know.
So I got a message from Plural, right?
Yeah.
And he tells me, here's what's going on at the Shark's Tank.
Right.
And he sends me this whole thread of these guys talking to hell of shit about how they got me booted and all this shit.
What a newbie.
He thinks he's a troll.
He ain't shit.
You don't know troll and you don't know nothing.
Right.
So then I was like, all right, watch this, man.
So I created a website called Playbud.
Right.
And on the website, I just started, you know, posting my thoughts, posting a bunch of different stuff.
Right.
And then I started one called the, uh, the Sacking of Kendo.
Right.
Okay.
And on there, I started talking about it, put this stuff up that Plural had put, gave me, started talking shit about all the different people at, uh, at the, uh, at the Shark's Tank.
And this one guy, he was like a main moderator.
His name was Mr.
Maiko.
He was the main moderator.
And he was one of the, one of the guys who was, you know, part of the, the, the Sacking of Kendo.
Sure.
So I started talking shit about him, saying a bunch of stuff about him and blah, blah, blah.
So then he goes, uh, by that time I had joined, uh, joined, uh, the Shark's Tank.
Yep.
And, uh, and started talking about it and started talking to him and calling him, you know, calling him out.
And he read this stuff on Playbud and then posted up personal information about me.
Oh, he doxxed you.
On the set.
Well, that was against policy.
Yeah.
That was, that was, that was one of the biggest TOU violations at the Shark's Tank.
Right.
That, that's the ultimate troll move to get someone to do that.
So I got him banned.
Yeah.
One of the main moderators, right?
That's amazing.
Now at that point, now they're calling me, they're calling me, you know, troll master, yada, yada, yada.
Yep.
So then I created the troll, I created the troll mafia.
I had like, I had like, you know, 40 different personas on the Shark's Tank.
I created like 25 on Overgrow.
And I would go in and I would start a thread and then I would post to the thread commenting on what I said.
Right.
And then I would go in and look from another persona and talk shit about myself in the thread.
You know what I mean?
And then other people coming back and forth.
Right.
And it would just go on and on.
Right.
I just would just, it was fun.
It was fun.
It was great.
It was, it was great mental, mental jockeying, bros.
Yeah, dude.
But yeah, so, so the Shark's Tank was a really good, good way for me to, to get shit going.
I got my wife into it.
Her name was Team ThunderCunt.
That's awesome.
You got your wife into it too.
She got into it.
Well, I could, I would keep telling her all the different things and she's like, you know, I hate it, but it sounds like a lot of fun.
Yeah, yeah.
Let's do it.
Let's do it.
Let's do it.
So then, after that, right, I, you know, was posting on, so then I got Overgrow to allow me to come back.
Yeah.
Oh, they were hot, bro.
I was the only person, the only person ever to be reintroduced back into Overgrow.
Yeah.
The only person, right?
Because I started a campaign, Let Kendo Back.
And a hell of people that was in their signature line, Let Kendo Back In.
Let Kendo Back In.
That's awesome.
And literally there, there ended up being a couple thousand of people who did that, right?
So they let me back in.
They let me back in, right?
And, you know, Overgrow was great, man.
It was great.
And, you know, the IP, IP on my plants was, was probably the, the best one that I ever put out there, man.
But, oh yeah, I put a couple, I put a couple other ones out there, right?
Which was, one of them was moderation, moderators and the moderated.
And it was a, it was a vision into what moderation truly is.
You know what I mean?
How you moderate people, right?
What you're supposed to do, what it's supposed to be, right?
And then about who and what moderators are supposed to do and about what we saw at Overgrow and at Cannabis World as well, right?
That there really weren't moderators.
They were just ego, ego driven people who, you know, would go after people they didn't like and, you know, let the people that they did like get away with whatever they wanted to.
You know how it is, bro.
It's still the same.
It doesn't, it hasn't changed.
It hasn't changed.
And then it was about the moderated, those of us who are under those policies.
And, uh, bro, that one got, that one got a lot of visualization.
A lot of people.
I bet. It opens people's eyes.
A lot of people don't even put time into thinking or understanding the psychology behind it all.
And you see, and you've seen me, man.
And, and, you know, it's funny you say psychology.
You've seen me, you know, I can, I can run circles around.
Oh yeah.
90% of these people, right?
I learn them.
It's like a game of chess, right?
It really is like a game of chess, right?
And they're all playing checkers.
Yeah.
And psychologically, you know, on a, on a website, when you're on a website, people are at their keyboard.
And so it's their own little world, right?
And so their id, their base comes out, right?
They can't help but show their base and who they truly are.
And it's very easy to manipulate people.
I developed a, uh, I developed a means by which to deal with that shit and post called WebFoo.
I love it.
Yeah.
And it was, uh, it was based on Schopenhauer's 31 ways to win an argument and Sun Tzu's Art of War.
Art of War.
Yep.
Right.
And so, and it, it did it, it works out all the fucking time.
I bet it does.
People are so predictable.
Make them paint themselves into a corner and then watch them.
You know, you can see it right away when they figure out that they painted themselves into a corner, right?
They start stumbling.
They start trying to figure out how to do this and do that.
Right.
And with that moderation, with that moderation and the moderated post, I, um, I got a lot of those moderators to paint themselves into a corner.
Straight up.
Cause they would come in and it would be like, oh, that's, that's bullshit.
I don't do that.
I don't do that.
That are the, and I would just post up examples.
You know what I mean?
And always, every time I would start with no disrespect intended.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Right.
And just, you know, get them to, to, you know, keep stepping on themselves and be like, well, you say this, but how about this?
This is what you did in this instance.
Oh, and this is what you did in that instance.
It's hard for me to be able to see any difference between this, that, and the other.
You know, when you say you're a moderate, you're actually moderating the way that a moderator is supposed to moderate.
You're not doing it by example.
So explain to me where you were doing this.
And just so many of them brought in literally, bro.
I got, I got these guys to where they, they hated me.
They, they hate me.
Oh, I bet.
I bet.
And that can get dangerous.
That can get dangerous more than people realize though.
Well, you know, I'm not scared.
I'm not scared of nothing.
No, I'm just talking about like, as far as people that are snitchy.
That, that's the scary one.
Oh yeah.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You can, you get snitched on man.
Nowadays you get swatted.
Right.
That's what I mean.
That's.
It's horrible with where it's gone today.
As far as like, cause back in the day, like sometimes you'd run into these people and you fist fight and that's over.
That's cool.
But this other shit is not, that's, that's not in our playbook.
We don't have those roles to run that way.
So it's like, they get this dominion.
They always have that upper hand that they can do that.
Oh yeah, bro.
And I mean, I, I can tell you, I had multiple people, you know what I mean?
They would, they would confront me.
Cause you know, I've been to lots of different, you know, parties, harvest parties.
Oh yeah.
Areas, you know, I mean, we, we met at that barbecue.
We met.
Yeah.
And dude tried to confront me there.
I was like, what?
Yeah, what are you gonna do?
And you know, I've been confronted there and it's like, Hey, you know, we can, we can do whatever.
I'm not scared.
And a couple of guys were pretty damn big.
You know what I mean?
Like dude, I'm, you're not the first guy, big guy I've ever fought, man.
Yeah.
So, you know, I mean, you can, you can take it to the limit or we could just say whatever, you know, I'm not going to take it back.
I meant what I said.
Yeah, exactly.
So here you, here we are.
Let's, let's figure this out.
Right.
Yep.
But you know, from overgrown man and Sharkstank, I met a lot of people personally, you know what I mean?
So, you know, cause I would, I would go ahead and invite people over, which freaked my wife the fuck out.
I'm sure.
I mean, you can imagine, right.
People coming over, staying on the couch, but of course I'd vet them first, you know what I mean?
Oh yeah.
And find out about them.
You know, I'd go to their house.
We'd meet up at concerts and, you know, parties and blah, blah, blah.
And there were a lot of parties from Cannabis World that I got involved in.
Right.
Can you talk about some of those?
Pardon?
Can you talk about some of those?
Any, any good stories from those?
Oh yeah.
Oh yeah, bro.
So Cannabis World was a sister site for, for Overgrown, right?
And that's, I think that's where they, that's actually where they launched Heaven's Stairway from, I believe.
That's right.
From Cannabis World.
Yep.
Richard ran Overgrown and Cannabis World.
Was he all right?
Yeah.
What was it?
It was a, oh God, it was NL, was it NL 420 and Fool Girl.
Who else?
Somebody else.
I think it was a guy named IO, IO1 maybe.
They started, they started Overgrown, right?
And then, and then once Overgrown started taking off, because it didn't, I think it was like a year, there was 60,000, 60,000 members in Overgrown.
It just fucking took off, right?
And so then they were trying to finance it by the ads, right?
But there was so much, so much content, right?
I mean, you gotta buy storage space, right?
Yeah, yeah.
You gotta pay for server storage space.
They couldn't do it, right?
So it was becoming too prolific and too much.
And so Fool Girl, NL 420 and this other person stepped away and Calrissian Richard jumped in.
So Shabang handled the, handled the tech part of it and Richard handled the money, right?
And then they came up with, they started doing the auction at first and that was, that was good, right?
That's when Subby, that's when Subby got involved, right?
Because at that point-
Do you remember his real name?
Roo?
R-U?
R-O-O?
Was that his real name or his original first name was-
Richard.
No, no, no, Subcool.
Oh, Subby?
Oh shit, I don't know what his-
I thought it was Roo or something like that, yeah.
I just always called him Subby.
Yeah.
But yeah, that's when he started doing his thing, right?
And you know, there was, it was a, it was just a bunch of the 77 crew, man.
Can you-
I know you know-
I don't know much about the 77 crew if it, like, because I remember there's always A-E-77 attached to everything and I know that it's part of Eric.
That was Eric?
A-E-R-I-C.
Did he run it?
The 77 crew, is he head of it or just part of it?
No, no, he's just part of it.
So the 77 crew was just a group of like 77 guys who all had, you know, availability or possession of fuck tons of land raise, you know what I mean?
Gotcha.
Or specific area cultivars, right?
Let's call it that.
Gotcha.
Land raise to me is a misnomer, right?
Yeah, I see.
Because pretty much everything is a cultivar.
Yeah.
But yeah, there was like 77 guys and they all got together and just started exchanging genetics.
Yeah.
You know what I mean? DJ Short, Subby, Eric, Stone Pony, all those guys, man.
Those hell of a preservation dude.
Stoney Puffer stuff.
Was he in there?
Yeah.
Oh yeah, dude.
All those dudes.
I think Texas Kid.
Oh, dude.
Yeah, Texas Kid, Lone Star.
Yeah.
Lone Star's there.
Yeah.
A bunch of those guys.
Marks.
I don't think Marks Castle was a part of it though.
Oh, fucking Marks.
I don't think, but he's old school.
Mark is cool, dude.
He's been around forever.
Yeah.
Forever, bro.
I like that guy, man.
I like that guy a lot, man.
He's been around a long time.
Oh yeah, man.
But it was a lot of stuff going on with those guys at that point, right?
When they first started it.
And it was about the time that I got in there that it started really taking off.
That Richard came into play and Shabang and him went in together, right?
But yeah, it was really good, man.
And Cannabis World, I started getting into Cannabis World because Cannabis World was a lot less caustic than Overgrow, right?
It was way more friendly, a lot more really good people, a lot of good stuff going on.
And I met a bunch of people through like Elkslayer.
I don't know if you know Elkslayer.
He's a big name.
Caleb's a CSI's best friend.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
Oh yeah, dude.
And that's when I ended up at Crazy Krusty's Cannabis Co-op, which was very successful for me.
Yeah, it sounds like it.
Oh yeah, until we got raided by 105 cops.
Oh shit.
Did you, and you made it out okay?
Oh yeah, all my plants were accounted for.
I have four that didn't have the right tags, right?
So they chopped down four of my plants out of like 70.
70 or 77.
That's not too bad.
They chopped down four of my plants, man.
And it was beautiful, bro.
They were all, you know, five pounders.
I like that.
Oh dude, it was beautiful.
And it was all my own stuff, right?
It was a preservation, haze, sprays.
What did I have?
I had the purple blockhead.
Oh yeah.
It was all my stuff that I bred, man.
It was beautiful.
But let's get back to the parties we were going to talk about on Cannabis World.
Yeah, yeah, that's right.
Yeah, yeah.
Some of these parties, right?
A really good friend of Jake's, right?
Was Ross.
Let me tell you how I met Jake.
So I met, I got the UK cheese.
I was one of the first in the United States to get the UK cheese.
So he brought it in.
That was like sourced, he sourced it somehow, right?
No, he didn't.
No, no, no.
He got it from me.
He got it from me.
So I got it from Optimus Prime.
Okay.
I know the name.
We won't do first names, right?
But I got it from Optimus Prime.
Who got it from, oh God, what was his name?
He was out of Canada, man.
He's an English dude who was up in Canada.
Vision?
Yep, Vision Theater.
Exactly.
You're friends with him.
So he sourced it through Vapor.
Vapor got it.
He was in Nova Scotia and he carried it all the way across Canada to Vision's little commune.
Yeah, yeah.
Over in BC.
Yeah.
So he sent it, Vision sent it to Optimus Prime and then Optimus Prime sent it to me along with the Vision tie.
Oh, you got to wear that?
Was that worth it?
Oh yeah, it was good.
It was really good.
It was really good.
It was really good.
So now I got the cheese and everybody is holding that shit tight.
Oh yeah.
It was crazy, right?
But you, I mean, you know my reputation, bro.
I'm a whore.
I don't care.
I don't care, man.
I just started giving it out, right?
Yeah.
So then Elkslayer comes to me and tells me, hey bro, you got to, you got to let me get that strain, man.
You got to let me get that strain and don't give it to this other guy.
Yeah.
Well, this other guy, his name was Danimal.
Oh God, yeah.
Yeah, bro.
So his name was Danimal.
I can see why he was saying don't give it to Danimal.
Don't give it to Danimal.
Don't you dare, right?
Whatever.
I'll give it to whoever the hell I want to.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's your choice.
I started doing some research on Danimal, right?
Yeah.
And, but I, so I gave, gave that, right?
Because like, bro, you're the best.
I love you, man.
I love you.
So I did research on Danimal and found out Danimal was a scammer, right?
Yeah.
So then I meet Danimal up in Oakland.
I'm going up to Oakland to the third floor up there on Broadway to pick up some, pick up some strains from Turtle up there.
And remember Turtle?
No, I don't know him, but I know the name.
Oh yeah, he's bomb, man.
Yeah.
So I'm going up there anyway.
And so I have the cheese and I have East Coast Sour Diesel.
Ooh, early source of that, that sour too.
Oh yeah.
So I had two separate plants, right?
Yeah.
And so Danimal starts telling me a story, right?
The story is not even his story, bro.
I've heard the story already from the person who the story was fucking originated from.
And right off the bat, I'm like, fuck you.
Yep.
You, that's all you needed to hear.
I'm taking the East Coast Sour Diesel.
So here's the cheese.
Yep.
He took that back.
He grew it out.
He traded this East Coast Sour Diesel to a bunch of people.
As cheese?
Calling it the cheese, right?
And got clowned.
Oh, that's what you get.
And he came back at me on Candice World and was like, bro, what is this?
I go, that's East Coast Sour Diesel.
He goes, what the fuck, man?
I go, you're a dick, dude.
You're a liar.
You're a punk.
And this is what you get.
That's what you get.
I love it.
You get clowned.
And so everybody was like, oh, that's classic, dude.
That's awesome.
Clowns are the kiddo.
He got clowned.
He got clowned so hard, right?
And it was hella funny.
But that's how I made it, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, you know, we're fast friends at that point.
Will Alex Lear get mad that we're using his first name?
Nah, probably not.
Okay.
I just want to make sure.
Nobody will know his last name anyway.
Okay.
All right.
So getting together, doing different stuff, right?
And I'm still not in that inner, inner circle, right?
The clique.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
And the main reason is because there's a couple of Rudy poops who just didn't like me.
Yeah.
They were mad at you probably from your, your previous posts about calling people out.
Fucker.
Whatever.
Whatever.
They're Rudy poops that didn't like me, right?
But Jake went to Rosso who was having these Friday night parties.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
And, you know, said he wanted to, he wanted to bring me to the party, right?
And so Rosso was like, oh, hell yeah.
I love Kendo.
I love that guy.
Bring him.
Make sure you bring him.
So Jake said he was going to bring me and this other guy, Ed, Ed Larkis.
Okay.
He didn't like, he didn't like me.
We ended up becoming friends, but he didn't like me.
And he was like, no, no, you can't bring him.
And Jake was like, yeah.
Okay.
Okay.
Whatever.
Yeah.
I'm anyway, brought me anyway.
Right?
Yeah.
So then I'm there at Rosso's and now there's a Rosso has a Friday night party and there's a Saturday and Sunday party at NCGA's.
Okay.
Right.
Yeah.
No.
You know, I'm sure you know, right?
There's Friday and Saturday and Sunday party at NCGA's and it's a, it's a meal, right?
It's a, yeah, yeah.
It's a big get together, man.
Yeah.
And, and so, you know, I paid my money to go there as well.
So we're having a blast, bro.
It's, it's great.
Great party.
Enjoy it.
There's some people there, right?
That, you know, that I was happy to meet, you know, and, and it was, it was all good.
Right?
So that was, that was the first year that I went there, man.
And I met a lot of good people, man.
A lot of really good people.
But the second year is when things started getting interesting.
So we go to, we go to Rosso's party, you know, it's kind of like, it's like a, it's a cup, but it's not really a cup.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Everybody knows, everybody knows who strains or what.
And blah, blah, blah.
Is this the Nugs and Jugs?
No, we'll talk about Nugs and Jugs.
Okay.
I didn't know if that was the same thing.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No, that's Icy Mag.
Okay.
That was some Icy Mag stuff.
Right.
And so.
That's early.
Yeah, this is before that.
So then, you know, I go to, I go to NCJ's Little Harvest Party.
And that year there was Eddie Lep.
Yep.
And, and Jack Herro.
Yep.
And who else was there?
Jeannie, who's probably there.
Yeah.
His wife.
I think DJ Short was there that year.
Dave Pence.
And who's the guy who did the Cannabis?
Oh, Jason King.
Jason King.
Jason King.
He was there as well.
Right.
And they're all, you know, good, nice guys.
Right.
My buddy Francis was probably there.
Have you met Francis Nuts and Nugs?
Maybe.
Maybe.
I think he was there that year.
So, so I had met Eddie multiple times before that.
Right.
Out at his farm in Lake.
You know, I had met Eddie Lep multiple times before that.
Right.
And so, so he knew me.
We weren't friends.
Right.
Yeah.
But, you know, we had a, we had a talking relationship.
Same thing with Jack.
Same thing with Jack Herro.
So we're all hanging out.
And that year I had re-hooked up with the guy from Hayes Brothers.
Right.
Oh, wow.
And he gave me a, they're still, they, he was still messing with, with the Purple Haze.
At that point.
Right.
Is he still alive?
I don't know now.
That was a while, that was a long time ago.
Right.
Yeah.
But he gave me a derivative.
Right.
A phenotype of the Purple Haze.
Which wasn't like, it didn't grow like the Purple Haze.
It had the same flavor.
You know what I mean?
Similar color.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
But it just wasn't the same.
Right.
Yeah.
So he gave me that, told me, here, you can use this.
You can breed with it.
Don't give it away.
Once you're done breeding with it, kill it.
I was like, yeah, all right, no problem.
So I used it to go across, to go across the Grapefruit Haze that I'd gotten from Turtle.
Beautiful Grapefruit Haze, man.
That I'd gotten from Turtle.
Right.
And I made a, that's what I made the Gerpel Haze out of.
But I brought the stuff that I had grown out, this, you know, derivative phenotype of this Purple Haze, to this party.
And so we're smoking it.
Jack walks by and he goes, what the hell are you smoking?
Yeah.
I'm like, bro, this is, you know, this is a phenotype of the Purple Haze.
He's like, I knew it.
I knew it.
I knew that was the Purple Haze.
I could smell it.
That just, that just like got my vibes going.
You got me, oh my goodness.
And he sits down next to me, you know what I mean?
And me and Jack are sitting there.
He gets out his little Jack pipe, you know, his little Jack prototype.
And he takes a bud of the Purple Haze and stuffs it in there and he lights it up and he's smoking on it.
Right.
And he turns to me and he stuffs the pipe right in my mouth.
Right.
Bro, it was, it was slobbered on big time.
I'm like, fuck, I'm French kissing Jack Heir right now.
You are.
And so I take a big hit, man.
I'm like, yeah, bro.
I had a nice pipe.
Got it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So he gives me the pipe.
He gives me his pipe.
And then I roll a big fatty joint of the Purple Haze.
So we pass it around and it goes around the table.
The bunch of guys around the table.
Inspector was at the table as well.
CSI Humboldt.
And we pass it around the table and it goes around and it's a thumb.
So, you know, it makes it around easy.
First time.
It was around the second time and this stuff when you get down about halfway,
bro, it was that, it was that type of weed that, that, that half of the joint
would just turn black, right?
Oh, I get it.
And it was just that lung buster, man.
Just fuck you, man.
So it comes back around.
Then I tell Jack, don't take a big hit.
Just take a little hit, Jack, because Jack is sick, right?
You know, yeah, he's sick at that time.
Yeah.
And he didn't listen to me.
He takes a big ass hit, man.
And he starts coughing.
And he keeps coughing.
And he keeps coughing.
And then his lips turn blue.
And I'm like,
he's gonna fucking die right here in front of me, man.
No.
So he had brought this, the mad guy, like from Oklahoma.
He had some, some cannabis church with Eddie, right?
I don't, I don't know what his name was, but he was taking care of Jack.
You know what I mean?
So he comes out.
We pick Jack up.
We take him in the house.
We sit him in a recliner.
He is rubbing Jack's legs, getting Jack to calm down, gets Jack to stop coughing.
And then Jack passes out, right?
Falls asleep.
So I'm like,
thank God, man.
Holy shit.
And I walk outside.
And I walk to the table and all these guys are laughing.
They're just laughing.
I'm like, bro, that wasn't fucking funny at all.
I'm still.
I'm still all used to, like, bro, you were about to be known as the stoner that killed Jack Heron.
That was gonna live, be your legacy for your life, bro.
No.
That is just not even funny, man.
Killed him with haze.
Killed him with the haze, man.
So we're sitting around, right?
And we're still at the same table.
And
there's a good story.
At that time,
the Mendo Perks, I brought.
So what ended up happening was
the Mendo Perks had gotten stolen from Jack, from Eddie Leps.
It was actually Jason King's string.
Yeah, yeah.
Francis gave it to him.
Okay.
Okay.
So, so it had gotten, it got to
Eddie Leps.
Eddie Leps was supposed to keep it under wraps, not let it get out, period.
Not give it away.
And somebody that was working with him stole it.
Yeah.
And so then
Inspector got it, right?
Several other people got it.
Eddie knew that it got stolen.
And so
Inspector gave it to me.
And I had drawn it out.
And so I had an ounce in my pocket as well.
And Inspector was like, don't bring that out.
Don't get that out.
That's going to be just like,
that's going to be just like the purple haze.
And somebody's going to smell it.
And they're going to know exactly what the hell it is.
Because you know,
you know what that smells like.
Yeah, yeah.
And so,
so I was like, bro, I ain't scared, man.
You know me, I ain't scared.
I'm going to break this out.
I'm going to roll with fatty.
I'm not going to smoke it.
I'm going to smoke it right here, right now.
Yeah.
So I did it.
I rolled it up,
rolled up a fatty,
passed it around.
And somebody who I'm not going to mention walks by.
Yeah.
Right?
And smells it.
Looks over at the table at us like,
you motherfuckers.
What?
What?
Yeah.
So then they knew it was me
who busted it out because they already knew that I was a rabble-rouser.
Yeah.
So
Eddie Lipp is maybe 40 feet away
in the distance.
They walk over to Eddie,
start talking to him about it.
He looks over.
He's all mad dogging us at the table.
Yeah.
Walks over.
He's like, who got that out of the way?
That was me.
That was me.
You know that it's out there.
You know it's in the wind.
There's nothing you're going to be able to do about it, bro.
Let's just get over it.
Yeah.
Forget about it.
Just, you know, release the karma, bro.
Release the karma.
And he's one of those type of dudes, you know what I mean?
Everything's karma to Eddie.
Yeah.
So,
he was like, where'd you get it, man?
I'm like, bro,
this is a no snitch song, man.
Yeah.
Come on now.
I review my sources, bro.
Yeah.
He's like, well, you know,
you know, that was really messed up.
I go, I agree.
I agree, bro, but it's out there.
It's out there already.
Done.
So he stands there and talks to me for a minute longer.
Steps away,
comes back and says, you know what?
I released the bad karma on that strain.
Whoever's got it,
and do whatever they want with it, blah, blah, blah.
Yeah.
So at that point,
you know, inspectors looking at me like, dude, you're a dick, man.
You're a dick.
You got us all in the hot water and blah, blah, blah.
So,
so then after that, right?
Walk in the house
and Eddie's sitting on the couch and he calls me over.
He's like, come on over here, Kendall.
Come here.
Sit down.
I respect you for that, man.
I respect that you brought that out.
Nobody else wanted to.
They were, you know, they were thinking that, you know, it was just going to cause him problems.
I'm like, hey, I'm ready for it, bro.
I don't mind.
You know what I mean?
It's better to be, you know, out in front and take the punch than, you know, just continue to duck and hide, right?
So he's like, I respect that, man.
That's good.
That's good.
I'm glad you did that.
I actually feel better about that now.
Yada, yada.
So then we're talking
and he's inviting me back to the ranch, you know, his farm up there.
Yeah, through 30,000 fucking pot plants right in the vision of the highway.
Nuts, dude.
Nuts.
He invites me back over there and he's telling me, yeah, you know what?
You come up and we're going to do ayahuasca.
We're going to get we're going to do some ayahuasca, bro.
We're going to we're going to have this just crazy ass mental exercises and we're going to do these things.
I got this stuff.
I do ayahuasca and then after after, you know, the morning we're going to wake up in the morning and we're going to
pee into a glass, our first pee, and then we're going to drink our own pee.
I'm like, what's up with that, bro?
He goes, yeah, body purifies it, man.
It makes it even purer and stronger.
So the next day when you do it, you just enter the cosmos and just fly through the universe and you know, just it's beautiful.
It's just beautiful.
Okay, Eddie.
That's what we're going to do, bro.
We're going to drink our own pee, man.
No problem.
And he was dead fucking serious.
I believe it.
He was dead serious, man.
Well, yeah, I just did you drink your pee?
Hell no.
I'm not down for ayahuasca.
I did.
I did peyote before, dude.
That was far enough for me.
I'm not into it either.
I don't anything I have to puke to enjoy.
I'm not I'm not I'm not into it, dude.
Exactly.
And people try to get me to do DMT even this day.
But I'm like, nah, nah.
I'm nuts enough, dude.
I don't need to I don't need that.
Yeah, I'll do some mushrooms.
Yeah, I can handle those.
I'll do some shrooms.
I'm not even down for acid anymore, man.
I mean, I chewed a lot of a lot of times.
I'm weak on that shit now.
I just I've been I've done stuff and like I know my brain and it's just I see it.
I deal with enough shit in my brain.
I don't need extra.
I agree.
Yeah, I agree.
I'm not into that, man.
Yeah.
I mean, you know, that was a that was a good party.
That was a that was a very eventful party, obviously, right?
That's a beautiful story, too.
And then the next year, the next year was a.
Oh, no.
So that year as well, man.
My wife is there with me, right?
She's chilling.
And she's sitting next to DJ.
Yeah.
And Jason, right?
And he turns to her and he's got his blueberry, you know, you know, DJ, bro.
He's he's a nice guy, but he's he's a big kid.
Right.
He's a he's a pot star.
Yep.
And he turns to her and he's like, you know, here, here, check this flower out.
Smell that.
And it's just blueberry.
Yeah.
What's that smell like to you?
My wife looks at him.
My wife is my wife is great.
Yeah.
She's like, no, this smells like to me.
He's like, what?
Weed smells like weed.
And he just he he got sour, bro.
He goes, oh, I bet he did.
He got salty right away.
Right.
You didn't everybody, everybody at the table because we're at this this like
20 foot long table, you know, and this is what NCGA had the party with the 20 foot
long table.
And then you had jars everywhere, you know, of everybody's weed, right?
It was like at that time, right?
And a lot of the guys that were growing there, they were growing with, you know,
Grow More, Grow More 2020, right?
And dude, I mean, there's no, come on, man.
Yeah.
Smoking cardboard.
Right?
Go.
Yeah, you're smoking cardboard.
So I brought this preservation haze and I brought the gerbil haze and I had jars
of that on the table and people, you know, you can just go around open a jar, you
know what I mean?
So you'd open my jar and that she would just slap you in the face.
Yeah, you know what I mean?
Whoa, shit.
That's what's fucking great.
People are grabbing buds.
You know what I mean?
Grab another bud.
Put your side taking at home with me, right?
Yep.
So now my jar is empty.
Right?
And people are like, hey, your jars empty.
I'm like, I will take that jar, bring another jar because I brought, you know,
yeah, I brought a box of jars of each one.
Yeah, put that put that thing there.
People are getting butt sore, bro.
People are getting butt sore.
We have the same kind of parties now and I see the same shit like when when certain
jars go empty and the guys think they're the shit, like just why is my jar full?
And then, you know, the other the other thing about these parties too, right?
Is joints are going around the table and you know, I look at the joint.
And I'm like, dude, that has a that has a one inch fucking black as fuck ash on it.
Yeah, pass.
Put it out.
Pass it on.
Yeah, and people are looking at you.
You know what I mean?
Like you're the dick in your ass.
They walk up to me.
They don't want to confront.
They want to confront me right in front of the table.
Yeah, because they know they're going to get the answer.
They don't want to hear.
But they'll come to me later.
Come to me later and be like, hey, man, why'd you pass my joint?
I'm like, bro, that thing had a rock hard ash.
I could have flicked it, flicked it from two feet off the table and it would have
made a thump on the table, bro.
Well, you know, I'm like, that's what do you use?
You use grow more, right?
Yeah.
Well, yeah, I use, you know, I use blue stuff.
I'm like, well, use blue stuff.
That's what you get, man.
Yeah, you know, I'm not trying to diss you, man.
I'm sure you make plenty of money.
I'm sure you make plenty of money, but I'm not.
That's not what I do.
This is what I grow.
This is how I grow it.
You know, it's a different methodology.
And so, you know, I apologize if I passed on your weed, but, you know, I don't want
to choke myself out.
Yeah, and I'll be like, honestly, you know, I find that people that will use something
like that will use a lot of other things that I don't find appealing either.
You know what my love is her body.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, I got I got COPD and emphysema already.
You know what I mean?
You don't need more.
I can imagine if I would have been smoking everybody else's weed at those points.
I probably be dead by now, right?
Yeah, but yeah, just, you know, looking at some of this, some of this bud that was
going around, dude, it was just, it was fucking horrible.
Yeah, it was horrible and smelling, smelling it was even worse, right?
I bet.
What are you smelling?
You're smelling fucking basement, you know, just smells like
grit and cracks me up because, you know, you see this joint going around, right?
Yeah, that's my weed right there.
That's going around right there.
Yeah.
Well, how do you flush?
And I'm in my mind.
I'm like, you don't, you're never going to get out of this plant.
Yeah, you know, it really flushing is a misnomer.
You don't flush a plant.
Right?
Yeah, you'll allow a plant to use what's contained within, you know, within the
flower, available resources within the root zone, right?
You can't flush a plant, right?
Yeah, it's a misnomer.
But, you know, listen to these guys talk about what they did.
It was funny.
And, you know, like, so that first go back to the first party that I went to.
It was me, Elk Slayer and Inspector GT, right?
And, and Elk Slayer actually coaxed Inspector out of hiding because Inspector
had never gone to any of those.
That's right.
Yeah, I could see that.
Fourth generation guy and it was real, real under didn't do any of that type of
stuff.
Nothing, right?
So we're at the we're at the parties and he was a he was a lurker on overgrow and
cannabis world.
And so when we met, right, he was like, bro, I fucking love the way you deal with
these people.
I love it.
This is great.
I can't wait.
We're gonna have a blast tonight.
I can already tell.
We're gonna have so much fun and Elk Slayer was the same way.
Elk Slayer.
I just love that.
He was like, we go to the party.
We're having a good time, right?
And I'm getting people to say the stupidest shit on the planet, bro.
Just painting themselves into a corner about how they grow, what they do and all
this type of shit, right?
And so then after the party, we leave kind of early, right?
Because we're just tired of the bullshit.
We leave kind of early and we had a spot near their Airbnb with a hot tub.
Yeah.
So we went, we got some alcohol.
We're sitting in the hot tub, smoking weed, talking about the party and just
laughing our fucking asses off.
Oh, I bet, dude.
Right?
And I'm like, so did you hear what this one guy said about how he does it?
He fucking jumps up, hops on his right leg twice, hops on his left leg three
times, pirouettes, sprinkles pixie dust over his right shoulder on his plant and
then sings Kumbaya.
That's how he does it.
Yeah.
It's just funny, dude.
We're just laughing our asses off.
These guys are trying to act like they reinvent the wheel the way that they
grow weed, right?
Always.
No, no, you don't.
Now, there are some new methodologies, obviously, bro.
Sure.
I mean, with the advent of LED and some of the different things that we're doing
now, that people are doing now.
Sure.
There's new methodologies.
Absolutely.
Right.
But back then, bro, no.
Yeah.
No.
No, you're just growing regular style, OG style.
And it's not happening that way.
Definitely not happening that way, man.
But yeah, it was definitely a trip being exposed to, you know, personally to some
of these rock stars, the pot stars.
Absolutely.
Like when I met Ed Rosenthal, right?
I went up to his place in the Oakland Hills.
Mm-hmm.
I'm a big Raider fan.
And so I would go to the Raider games and I'd be wearing my, you know, my different
pot shirts and shit, right?
And, you know, I walked by this guy, you know, over and over again and he'd be like,
nice shirt, nice shirt, nice shirt.
Yeah.
And then he calls me over.
He goes, Hey, man, I'm Ed Rosenthal's personal assistant.
I'm like, what?
And he's like, yeah, I'm Ed Rosenthal's personal assistant.
He was.
I know, but he had a personal assistant.
Yes, yes.
He had a personal assistant.
Like, just me or someone.
So, so he's like, you want to meet Ed?
I go, I met Ed before, bro.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He goes, no, this would be personal, bro.
You can come up to the house and meet Ed and, and it'll be great.
It'll be great.
You'll love it, man.
So I'm like, all right, fine, man.
So I put together a couple ounces of some, you know, preservation haze and gerbil
haze, right?
They grew organically.
Took him up there and he takes me out.
Ed is sitting around the table with Brett from Apothecary.
Yep.
Brett Bogue.
Yeah, I know Brett and I knew Brett already from before, right?
Yeah.
Up in, up in Mendo and this guy, Jim, who puts on the Seattle Hemp Fest.
This guy has like seven foot dreads, man.
Okay.
So these guys are all sitting around the table and they're actually doing a
judging, right?
They got all these little, little jars of weed, right?
And they're judging it.
So, you know, this guy introduces me to Ed, introduced me to everybody else
and, you know, I sit down and it's like, so I understand you brought something
really, really good.
My assistant says, you know, you grow some pretty good weed.
I'm like, yeah, grow some pretty good weed, right?
You know, I think it's okay.
You know, and by this time I had not only knew how to grow, but I had learned how
to consistently and perfectly cure.
That's so important, bro.
Yeah.
Well, that's what I learned from the OGs at Overgrow.
More than anything was how to dry and cure properly.
How to not screw up a good grow.
Yeah, dude.
It was head and shoulders because I mean, literally I went to, I went to one of
the first things that I did with them.
It wasn't one NCH's party or anything, right?
Yeah.
But it was just a little, a little grow party and these guys were busting out
this weed that was just fucking incredible, dude.
Yeah.
Just fucking incredible.
And I had weed in my pocket and you know, the guy was like, well, let me, let me
hear weed.
I'm like, frankly, I'm embarrassed.
I'm embarrassed.
You know, I don't want to show you what I've got, man.
Like that's some of the most awesome shit I've fucking heard in forever.
I'm like, bro, I didn't, what, what am I going to say?
I don't want to, I don't want to break it out.
Teach me.
Excellent self-assessment though.
A lot of people do not have that ability to self-assess their weed.
It's true.
So then there were, there were a couple of guys sitting around and these are,
you know, OG's old guys, right?
And they're like, bro, I'll teach you what's going on, man.
Show me your weed.
So I busted it out, you know, and showed them and they said, oh, it's grown well.
I mean, it looks good.
It's, it's grown well.
The main thing I could say is you probably didn't dry it properly.
You know what I mean?
And I'll teach you how to dry and cure.
Fuck yeah.
So I learned that shit, man, how to dry and cure.
So I bust these ounces out with Ed, put them on the table and, you know, before
Ed can even reach them, Brett snatches one of the bags, right?
Opens it up.
He's like, oh shit.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
That's my bud right there.
Puts it to the side.
Jim grabs a bud and Ed's like, hey man, what are you guys doing?
He didn't bring that shit for you guys.
He brought it for me.
I'm like, I brought it for everybody.
Yeah.
So he's got the other bag in his hand.
He's like, what is this one?
It was a preservation ace.
And I told him you need to be real careful with that one.
That one is aptly named lobster stocks because it is so racy.
It'll make you feel like your eyes are out here.
I love it.
I'll tell you another story in a minute about the lobster stocks.
Right?
So, so Ed is like, oh, I like that.
I like that, man.
And I'm like, you don't need to, you don't need to grab any buds out of there.
Ed, just give these guys each a bud because whatever's left is yours.
It's all for you.
Yeah.
I brought this for you.
So he's like, all right, all right.
So then we're conversing and talking, right?
And, and Ed starts, you know, tells me that, you know, when, when I leave, I can
have any book in his little, his little storeroom of books.
Right?
Yeah.
I'm like, I don't know, man.
That first, that first Bible you put out, grower's Bible, killed a bunch of my
plants, man.
Oh, you killed them.
And, and then, and then Brett was like, yeah, mine too.
Mine too.
And I was like, yeah, I brought up, you know, a couple of excerpts.
That fucked me up.
He goes, get the revised edition assholes.
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah.
You know, that was a, that was a good little, good little meeting.
Right.
Then I went in and, you know, out of respect, I took a bunch of his books.
Right.
They're still up here on my shelves.
That's awesome.
I haven't read them.
I haven't even cracked them.
Right.
They're sitting there.
Ed, Ed can't teach me nothing.
You know.
Not in the heartbeat.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I know.
Well, I'll tell you a story about that.
The lobster stocks, right?
Yeah.
So it's a preservation haze and it's G 13 Ash plant.
Yep.
Not the 88.
Not the 88 G, 13 Ash.
Gotcha.
Not the one Indian guy got.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The one Indian guy had was, was derived from the original G 13 Ash plant.
Right.
And this, I got from Clips.
I don't know if you remember clips.
Yeah.
Breeder clips, yeah.
Breeder clips, bro.
With the Pacific G 13.
Right.
Yeah.
G13. Yeah. So I got that and crossed that with this preservation haze or what was the haze?
I think it was the same grapefruit haze. It was the grapefruit haze as well. I crossed both of
the purple haze with the grapefruit haze and then the G13 ash plant with the, no, yeah,
with this grapefruit haze. And the shit, bro, like I said, was so fucking racy. It was absolutely
ridiculous, bro. I grew a plant and it was actually a 13 pounder. I got pictures of it,
dude. It was wild. It was stupid, man. And it was so fucking racy that I didn't even want to
smoke it. I didn't even want to smoke it. So I was getting rid of it to some people and one of
my buddies in Salinas, he bought some pounds of it and he had a nice little shop, a t-shirt shop.
And one of his buddies comes in, a veterano, right? We're talking OG Mexican dude, old school,
used to be Norteo, you know what I mean? Socks up past his kneecaps. Yeah, that's my kind of
person. Oh yeah. And so he brought up a nice size joint and they're smoking it. And so my buddy's
like, yeah, I'm only good for a couple of hits off that shit, bro. I can only smoke a bit. And so
this veterano was like, what the fuck, eh? I can smoke anything, bro. I smoke flask. I smoke
sherms. I can smoke anything. Give me that shit, bro. I'm going to finish this joint, man. He
smokes the whole joint, right? Yeah. Fuck yeah, I like that shit, man. Give me an ounce. So he
buys an ounce. So he gets in his car and he drives away. He stops at a stop sign. He's waiting
for that motherfucker to turn green, right? Stop signs don't turn green, bro. So he phases out and
then phases back in. Doesn't know where he is. Doesn't know where he's going. Has no idea about
shit. His fucking heart is racing. He's freaking out. And there's a sign right up in front of him
that says hospital this way. So he drives his veteran ass to the hospital. Says, I don't know
what they gave me. I think they put something in the weed I smoked. Oh man, I don't know what it
is. This shit is killing me. I'm going to die right here. They gave him milk and cookies, sat
him in a bed. My buddy calls me up a little while later and tells me, yeah, man, that shit fucking
fucked this dude up. Sent him to the hospital. I'm about to put a warning on that, man. Another one
of my buddies took some to a light show in Florida. And another OG, I can't remember what his online
handle was, but you would know him. You would know him. And then another OG, no good names left.
Okay. Took this stuff and whipped it out and they're smoking it in the hotel room. And the
next thing you know, this guy, and I can't remember his name, is freaking the fuck out.
And somebody came and knocked on the door and he tried to climb out of a fourth story window.
Oh no.
They had to physically restrain him and hold him down from this weed, bro. It was stupid.
I've seen some crazy shit, but yeah, yeah. There's been times where I felt like doing that,
but I stayed in the little ball that I was in.
Yeah. I didn't like this weed, right? I mean, to me, it was just beyond.com. Totally beyond.com.
No reason to go to that area because you already know where it's at. You know what I mean? You
already know what's up with that area.
I still have thousands of seeds too of it, man. Thousands of it.
Are they viable?
Maybe. Maybe.
Because after this airs, dude, people are going to be wanting the most racy weed on earth and
hitting you up. So think about it.
I know. I know. I know. I still have thousands of beans. Well, what I'm going to do, man,
is like I told you, we talked about it. I'm going to start doing some breeding here soon.
I can't wait, man.
Start doing some breeding. I probably have, fuck, one and a half million seeds, man.
I bet, dude.
So much old school stuff, man. Things, you know. And we'll see. I got a pretty good
methodology for popping them. So if you have a good methodology for popping old seeds, I mean-
You really want everything to be hyper sterile, as sterile as possible. Some people like adding
in beneficial bacterias and stuff while they're popping seeds. I'm the opposite. I want that shit
sterile so no bacteria can ruin that.
Getting back to the overgrow and that situation, right?
It was a beautiful place for people to get together. Overgrow and cannabis world, man.
And on that fateful day in 2006, when I woke up and clicked on the site and it didn't come up,
and then I put out some feelers and people told me it went down, I cried, bro.
I bet, dude. That's a family. That's your place. People don't understand who don't have a tribe.
We don't have a fucking tribe and weren't in those early on days, online days, where not everyone
in the world was online. So it was a camaraderie between people who understood that kind of
community and tribe. So yeah, that was a lot for a lot of people. I was just lurking, just beginning
to lurk in 2006.
It took a couple months for even a small amount of us to find each other, right? And it was like,
I see mag, right? Because I see mag was just starting at that time, right? And I think roll
it up kicked off right when overgrow went down. I think they kicked off right then, right?
It was the first. I think that-
THC farmer was already gone too.
I think, yeah. I don't know on that one.
That one I didn't run into.
There was nobody. They didn't have a very big member base.
Yeah. That makes sense.
You know what I mean? And it was funny too, because I started off,
and I see mag, right? And then Gypsy had heard of me, right? And I came over there and he told
me none of those shenanigans. And we don't play any of those games. You're welcome here.
Of course.
But let's keep it civil and blah, blah, blah. And I was like, no problem. No problem, man. You got
it. And I enjoyed IC mag. I went to roll it up. Roll it up was bullshit right off the bat.
Yeah. Troll it up, bro. The words of the noobs.
And so I went in there, right? And I told him, yeah, I want you to delete my name. I want you
to delete me from the website, right? Because you couldn't delete yourself. I'm like, no,
we don't do that. We're going to keep you here. I was like, you know what, motherfucker? You either
delete my name or I'm going to go with every single website, every kind of website, and I'm
going to dog your site like you ain't never seen. You're not going to have Kendo as a part of your
website when I can't deal with you. And I guess they went out and asked some people, what do you
think? And they're like, you need to delete this fucking name, bro. Get his name out of here.
Don't even play. It's going to be, you're going to be fucked because he's a pit bull.
So they deleted my name. The farmer, I like the farmer, dude. I still like the farmer,
right? TAC Farmer, Capitulator, Mark's Castle. I mean, you ain't shit unless you got a bunch
of haters, bro. That's true, man. It means you haven't pushed enough buttons yet, dude.
Yeah. And I love that shit, man. I do. I think that's incredible, man.
Like talking about IC Mag, right? Yeah.
Nugs and Jugs, bro. Nugs and Jugs, man. That was a blast. So I went to the Santa Cruz Nugs and
Jugs, right? Yeah. And it was great, bro. There was a lot of guys there. Who tossed it? Huh?
Who threw it? The original Nugs and Jugs in Santa Cruz. Remember? That was...
Joe Schmo. Joe.
Joe Schmo and what was her name? Outkast.
Outkast. Elaine, she just passed.
Yeah, Joe Schmo and Outkast, right? Two great fucking people. I love those guys, man.
I miss Elaine, man. She was so sweet and I wanted to do an interview with her, but she was passing
like some cancer over time and I didn't want to waste some of the last time she had with her
family on an interview. But God damn, she's a wonderful woman.
Yeah. But they threw that Nugs and Jugs up in Santa Cruz, right? And bro, it was great,
dude. So it was a blind cup, right? It was a blind cup and there was a lot of people there,
man. Who else was there? The guy who found the white chrome.
Oh, chrome. Chrome.
Chrome was there. Hillbilly on PCP. I can't remember his online name, but it's one of the
guys we were talking about earlier. There was a bunch of good breeders there, good guys, right?
And so they had a blind cup. Yeah.
So he just rolled up a bunch of joints and just passed them around. And I put my gerbil haze in
there, right? And it was supposed to be an indoor contest. My gerbil was outdoor, right?
Yeah. And so it went around and everybody was just like, I can tell.
I was just being quiet. I could tell everybody was like, wow.
Yeah.
Wow. Wow. It went around, right? So it ended up winning second place, right? It only got beat by
a screw 98 Bubba. You can't blame it, dude. It's just all gas.
Yeah. Yeah. Bubba's good. And especially because it was early on for Bubba, it's a great guy.
Yeah. It was just all gas, but I was all happy, right? And so then Hillbilly on PCP and my other
buddy, the guy, the no name, they knew that it was outdoor, right? And so did Chrome. So did
Chrome. But I had showed him what I brought and they're all like, yeah, that one, that one.
Yeah. Put that one in there, right? So then he'll be on PCP, jumps up and he goes, that's outdoor,
bitches. Everybody was mad. They were mad because it was outdoor, right? Because people think
outdoor is not as good as indoor. Of course. Yeah.
I grow some fine outdoor weed, man. I know how to make that shit fade like nobody else, man.
That shit turns purple, yellow, orange, light green, magenta.
You and your son have some killer plans, bro.
It has a lot to do with the way that the sun, you know what I mean? Reduces by two minutes a day.
It has a lot to do with that, right? It's not the same way. And I got a lot of my indoor stuff to
do a fade as well because I started reducing the time. You know what I mean? I let it get to like
that six and a half, seventh week. And I start reducing the time by like five minutes. You know
what I mean? Five more minutes. I'm just doing it that way. And so then the plant starts to recognize
that it needs to do what it's supposed to do. If you keep that 12 going the whole time,
um, the plant doesn't recognize it's time to die until it's time to fucking die. And then,
you know, it, it goes, but you can, you can initiate that really nice
fade by reducing your time a little bit. Especially with sativas that like the fucking
long hours. They like shorter light hours at the end. Some of the things that I do with my sativas
too, right. To keep them from harming or acting real stupid is you take, and instead of slapping
them into 12, 12, you reduce the, you reduce the time, you know, over a couple of week period,
right. You just keep reducing it and then get it to that 12, 12 period. That's great advice.
I mean, most of the sativas, even if you get it down to a 14 and then stick it down an hour after
that, you know what I mean? An hour one week and then an hour the next week, I'm sure it's going to
increase your 12 to 14 week flower time. But I mean, if you're going, if you're growing a true
tie, you know what I mean? I do this a lot. I do this a lot indoors.
How was that one? How was that one?
Bro, man, it was...
I've only heard tales.
So what I did was I started it in a nice big fucking pot, right.
Yeah.
And I'm letting it grow and that shit is just going nuts, man.
Jungly.
It's fucking going nuts. So I flower it and it goes even more. It's stretching even more.
Yeah.
Stretching even more. So I put it up against the wall and I put this four by four cattle fencing
across this entire wall and then just weaved it.
Yeah, dude.
Do the whole fucking cattle fencing. You know what I mean?
Yeah.
And let it go. And let it go. And let it go, dude. 16 fucking weeks later, bro, I got a million.
Little poopy sized buds.
Little buds, man.
Yeah.
Bro, fucking incredible.
Fire little buds.
It was incredible.
For the people who don't know, if I remember correctly, and this is the story passed down
late years on. So maybe correct me if I'm wrong. It was grown by a family in Vietnam
for a period of time and bred and then made its way here.
Yeah. But Dee Wee. Dee Wee DeLott.
Dee Wee DeLott. I didn't know that.
He was an OG in Vietnam.
Mm-hmm.
In Vietnam. Dee Wee.
That's wild, man. Does any of that stuff exist still, do you think? The DeLott stuff?
You'll find crosses. You're not going to find the original DeLott.
That's too bad.
Do you remember the smells or any of that from the DeLott?
Oh, yeah, dude. It was real. It wasn't piney. It was kind of sweet, a little bit sweet.
But it was more along the lines of like a... What terpene would I call that?
Because it wasn't like pining.
It wasn't terpene or?
It's kind of hard to describe, to be honest.
That's how I've heard it.
It had a little bit of... It was sweet. It was a little sweet to it. A little savory.
You know what I mean?
Not like meat. You know what I mean? I've had plenty of streams that were like meaty,
but it wasn't like meat. It was a combination. It was a combination.
I remember later on, people said DeLott was like dead meat. That was the one description.
I was like, it didn't make sense for a tie to be dead meat.
Savory, I could get.
It was like savory sweet. It was an interesting combination therein, man. But it was really good.
Getting back to that Nugs and Jugs, right?
Yeah.
So we did the contest. I came in second. It was great, right?
It was time to get done. They're going to be strippers.
And so the strippers are doing their thing, man. Having a blast. You know what I mean?
Dancing, taking shit off. Everything was great, man. And all of a sudden,
the owner of the property, it was like an Airbnb before Airbnb.
Yeah, yeah.
Owner of the property comes busting in.
No.
And he's like, I do not approve of this.
Oh my God.
How are you guys doing? He's having a fit, right?
And the strippers don't even care. They start dancing right in front of him, doing their thing.
And we're all high as fuck, bro.
Just giggling and laughing.
We're all just high as fuck. Because I was smoking everybody's weed at that party.
Yeah, yeah.
There was no Grow More at that party, bro.
No, it was the elite. Yeah.
It was all good weed, man. And we're just high as fuck, laughing. And he's yelling and screaming,
I'm serious. You guys all get out of here. Just leave, or I'm calling the police.
And we're just laughing until he finally got on the phone.
Oh, yeah.
He got on the phone and was calling the police. And then at that point, everybody was like,
we all took off. Killed in nugs and jugs. But we had about an hour of stripper. You know what I mean?
It was good. It was good. We had a blast.
And you made it through the fucking, the judging.
Oh, yeah. Made it through the judging. That was first. That was first, right? But yeah,
it was good. It was a good party, man. And then that got me in at Icy Mag. Because I wasn't
that prolific at Icy Mag.
Sure.
Because the Cabana had gotten faded.
Was he the one who created it originally?
Well, it was D-Man and Skitty.
Skitty. Yeah, yep.
D-Man and Skitty, right?
Skitty's Cherry Slider. That's how I remember Skitty.
Yeah, Skitty's Cherry Slider and the Choco-D.
That's right. Choco-D's.
So when the Cabana started, right, everybody was like, we're gonna start a site, right?
We're gonna get this going. And so Skitty approached me because he was super impressed with
the moderator, moderation, and the moderated.
Yeah.
And because I had laid out, not only did I point out each aspect of the moderation situation,
but I also laid out a scenario. You know what I mean?
Sure.
I laid out a means by which I thought that a site would be successful. You know what I mean?
Yeah.
And I thought, well, that's all the bullshit, right? And it entailed anonymous moderators.
Because if you're anonymous, now you're not gonna get a big head. People aren't gonna,
you know what I mean, try to kiss your hands and treat you a certain way.
Smart, very smart.
You know, there was no... You don't ban people, you simply limit their...
Their vision.
Yeah.
You simply, kind of like what... So you limit their visibility, you limit their scope of what
they can actually do, you know, and several other things. So he asked me to help put the site
together. So I helped him put the site together. We did a bunch of stuff and it was a good site for
a while, right? It really was. It was a good site for a while. And then the moderators just started
acting stupid.
That's how it goes, dude.
The moderator started acting stupid and they weren't happy because they weren't getting the
recognition that they felt they deserved. You know what I mean?
Yeah.
They weren't happy because they weren't getting anything for the moderating they were doing.
So they allowed them to become part owners and remove their anonymity.
So as soon as they removed their anonymity, bro, it just started going downhill.
Yeah.
And a lot of the OGs just started leaving because they were getting a bunch of shit.
Yeah.
You can't say anything. It started becoming, you know, like the world we live in now, right?
Yeah.
A lot of people that were a part of different social dynamics, you know what I mean?
They started really pushing their agenda on the site, pushing people into corners.
And so a lot of people started leaving. And then, you know, I started going back to being Kendo
and started calling them out, started talking hella smack, right? So then I got my first ban.
And then, you know, it was just a short ban. You know what I mean?
Yeah. Yeah.
They even removed the whole limiting your visibility.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Started banning people. And then there's a lot of stuff that goes on behind the scenes. You know
what I mean? A lot of backdoor stuff. You know what I mean?
Always.
You know what we're talking about? The scene where, you know, the black market scene, right?
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
There's a lot of stuff going on there, right?
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Through personal private messages. You know what I mean? And everybody was doing it. Everybody was
doing it, right? There were some people that were way more successful than others.
Yeah. And they were doing really, really well.
Well, certain people who were of higher renown got butt sore because those certain people were
doing really, really well. Yeah. Doing better than them,
cutting into their sales as they saw it. So they called them out, right? In open forum.
In open forum.
Yeah. Yeah. Which is to me is kind of snitchy.
Oh, not kind of, bro. Not kind of.
Yeah. I mean, it is. Yeah.
It's snitching. You're dry snitching somebody, right?
It is dry snitching. Exactly.
And so, you know me, I came right out and I was like, no, no, no, no, no, no. That's not right,
man. All you guys are doing the same thing. And you're trying to call this person out saying that
they're, you know what I mean? Not right for doing it. They're putting everybody at risk, blah, blah,
you do the same thing. Don't even try it, man. So then I got a six month ban.
Bang. Big fat ban, right? So then at that point, you know what I mean? A bunch of people left.
You know what I mean? A bunch of people left at that point, right? By the time I got back
six months later, because I didn't even post, I just went in looking at private messages.
By the time I got back, it was already starting to turn into a ghost town.
And so then, you know, and I'll just be honest, right? I would go back every once in a while,
just read private messages, do my thing, hang out. And then recently I got into a little scuffle
with one of the original people that created the site. They like to talk shit. They have certain
ideals and ways that they think about stuff that I don't agree with. And, you know, we talked about
shit to each other. And the next thing you know, they put out a post on the cabana saying that I
got arrested by the FBI, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. So then they said, for security concerns,
we're going to delete Kendo. So they deleted me from the site, right? Oh, yeah. And so, you know,
I would tell people at this point, you know, if you're going to be on the cabana, be real careful,
right? Yeah. Right. Do that shit to me. Don't do that shit to other people. Plus, you know,
also they know that someone was doing, you know what I mean? Yeah, but they know what people are
doing to DMs unless they're reading them. I mean, that was so silly that they came out and said that,
you know what I mean? Oh, you're doing this in private messages because that was one of the,
that was one of the points that I brought up was, how would you know if unless you're reading
people's private messages and then, you know, they painted themselves into a corner, right?
And I was like, oh, how are you going to get out of that corner? And they tried to, oh, we don't,
you know, so and so, so and so said that they're doing it. You've experienced a lot of what I
experienced on forums, which is don't be, you know, they don't like the dude who pushes back
and call stuff out. Some people do. Some people appreciate it. You know, a lot of people don't
want to be burned, but every single forum nowadays has a seed bank attached to it. And that
comes with the agenda. And that's, I mean, I don't, so, so back in the day, right? I wasn't into
buying seeds, right? In fact, honestly, I've never bought a seed. It seems goofy. Like if,
from your point of view, if you're making seeds, you know, to do it, you had access to the
cultivars you want. What the fuck's the point? Well, and then, and then, I mean, in, in the way
that we did things in the past, right? I, I, so I, I started a, a campaign called the Great Bean
Giveaway, right? And literally, bro, I gave away 150,000 seeds. Just gave away, you know what I
mean? And, and I did it anonymously. Nobody knew it was me, right? It's a Johnny, Johnny Ganja seed
was my handle. And I would, I would put up a post and say, this is my garden, right? And then I
would just put up a bunch of strains. You know what I mean? No pictures, just strains. And people
would come in and be like, oh, bullshit. You don't have that many strains going, yada, yada, yada.
But other people would be like, wow, that's interesting. I think that one and that one,
and that one, this sounds really good. Those sound like some really good strains. And it was all
stuff that was being donated from all the, the, the breeders. You know what I mean? All kinds of
different stuff, man. And so when people would say that, I'd be able to send them a private
message and be like, hey, bro, check it out. This is just a, you know, this is a roost. I'm not
your only, he's in my garden. This is a post so that, you know, people can come and ask me for
these beans. If you want them, let me know, send me an Addy. You know, if you want to, if you want
to donate $5, that'd be great because that'll cover, you know what I mean? That'll cover your,
your cost of me shipping you seeds as well as somebody else's costs. So you're, you're not only,
you're, you're, you're not only paying for yours, but you're paying it forward as well.
I would send out those little, um, you know, like the three by five, um, envelopes with the
bubble wrap in it. You know what I mean? And it was like a dollar. Yeah. You send it. You know
what I mean? Yeah. And so then, you know, they might ask for three, three strains and I would
send them 10 strains. You know what I mean? A hundred beans or more. And then in the thing,
you know, that a note that I typed up and it was like, give, give a friend a bean, you know what
I mean? So please pass some of these beans forward onto someone that you know, that's growing.
You know what I mean? So we get, we literally gave away 150,000 seeds, man. Just gave them all away.
And you know, I, I didn't tell anybody. Nobody really knew until my buddy, no good names left,
figured it out that it was me. Right. He was one of the first people that I gave beans to.
And, and he was like, he, he came out and, and ratted me out. You know what I mean? Cause I
didn't want to, I didn't want anybody to know. Right. You don't do things like that. So people
can blow up your ego. It's not, it's like, it bothers me when I see people who go out and,
and what do they call that virtue signal? Oh, I gave a bum $5 today. So what?
Here's the video of me doing it. Yeah. Yeah. Here's the picture. Here's a video of me doing
it. Right. Yeah. Virtue signaling to me is bullshit, dude. I hate it. I hate it. Yeah.
That's, that's, that's, that's how I was raised. Right. By my, you know, my, I wasn't raised by
my grandma, but my grandma would tell me about how, when the great depression was around and
there were all the bums and they lived near the railroad tracks. And so the bums would be on the
trains and they would, you know, get off the train and they would just make a big, huge pot
of beans. Yeah. You know what I mean? My, my grandma's family would make a huge,
we're talking a huge pot of beans and just give it out to the bums until it was gone.
Yeah. You know what I mean? And feed them. She's like, that's what you're supposed to do.
But yeah, I mean, you know, that's just, you know, giving out those seeds is just an example
of how we used to do it. Right. And then the same thing, you know, you know, I was a whore dude. I
would get strains, man, and I would give them to everybody. And you know, the cheese pissed people
off. Another one that pissed people off that I whored out was the Albert Walker. You know what
I mean? I wish I had that one. Yeah. No, that pissed me off, pissed people off. Oh, I bet it did.
Well, it goes back. That was, that was ducks. You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. And you know,
it was, it was a, you know, I apologized to him big time, dude. I said, I'm so sorry I did that.
I had no right to do that. You know, I was a different guy back then, but you know, they were,
they had the Albert Walker and him and a couple of guys that he had given it to,
were talking about it on the forum, out in open forum. Right. And I started a thread about,
you know, eating your ice cream in the sandbox. You know what I mean? You know, you give your
buddy a lick, you give your other buddy a lick, and then you show the ice cream to everybody else
and tell them you can't have none. And you eat it. Yeah. Yeah. And that's where, that's what
brought it to my mind. Right. Yeah. So I was like, you know, I was like, that's bullshit,
man. That's just straight bullshit. So then I got the Albert Walker and I whored it out.
And you know, me and Doc, we didn't get along for a while. Right. And then we saw each other
at the Emerald cup and we saw each other at the Emerald cup and, you know, made up. I apologized
big time. I said, I'm sorry, bro. However, I can make it up to you. Let me know. Yeah. Blah, blah,
blah. And he was like, you know what, this long time ago, man, it's all good. You know,
don't worry about it. Now, you know, we're, you know, we're over it. You know, I wouldn't,
I wouldn't say we're friends. Right. I mean, we don't call each other on the phone all the time,
but I got his number. I could call him anytime. And, you know, it's, you know, I, I, I, I enjoy
that because there are a lot of people that I've, I've, I've apologized to for calling him out. You
know what I mean? But even then a lot of people are like, you know what, I, I deserved it. Yeah.
I deserved it. And I'm like, you know what though? It wasn't, I shouldn't have done it.
I was just an asshole. And, you know, I'm not such an asshole anymore. You know, for me, I get,
I get way more satisfaction out of the minds that I can, can alter or get into the, into the line of
how to think as opposed to what to think. You know what I mean? Because that's more important
than anything, right? How to analyze, how to use their, their critical thinking skills. Yeah.
I mean, how many people do that nowadays, bro? I'm not going to lie to you, man. I'm going to
tell you the truth. I mean, you asked me questions here, right? And, you know, someone could give me
a little blow back. You know what I mean? But, you know, these are, these are things that,
you know, other people probably could get some good, some good knowledge from.
That's the whole reason we started this. And, you know, we get blow. One thing that, that my
co-partner didn't realize was that by digging into cannabis history, just the genetic side,
just looking at the genetic side and trying to start putting some of these pieces together,
he didn't realize how much blowback he was going to get because from his aspect, he's just a
historian, you know, but you're cutting into agendas and money streams, things that people
have attached deeply to their, their lives and character that aren't true. And it's also,
and it's all coming out in the wash and that upsets people.
Well, one of my favorite old sayings, it's a seedy business. You know, the Oregon market has
been pretty tough, right? So I have four farms. I've already liquidated one. I got two on hold
right now. I got a fourth one that I'm doing some things with. It is the devil's lettuce cannabis
company. So I'll be doing, I'll be doing that out here in the Oregon market as well. I'll be doing
some seeds, right. And you know, I'm looking to, I'm looking to expand my, my consulting business.
Big time. Big time, bro. I'm, I'm doing a lot of consulting. I'm in Puerto Rico, Oklahoma. I've
done a lot of other stuff here locally and I'm getting ready to blow up my LinkedIn and that's
going to be Kendo the Green Wizard. KTGW Consulting. And I'm going to blow that up now.
So people are looking, if people are looking for you know, a, a, a very good consultant,
someone who can bring in the right help, bring in the right experts for your environmental, for your,
you know, for your lighting. I know all the people for your procurement of equipment,
help you to hire the right people to man your grow, to be lead growers. I've been very,
very successful taking failing large enterprises, large enterprises, 400 lights from,
from failing to making millions a year. So absolutely brother. Thank you, man. I appreciate
you. Appreciate your show. I want to come back on, man. I'll, you know, I'll write up some stuff,
man. And we can, we can chop it up again. Please do, dude. This has been amazing.
Want to sit at the table with the Syndicate? Check out our Patreon in our link tree or
description below. Our merch site is officially live. We have all sorts of shirts, hoodies,
and goodies to sort you out and shipping is super fast. And most importantly, the quality
is top notch. I've been saving old designs for years for this purpose. So please check it out.
Syndicategear.com. We also have an underground Syndicate discord where we get together and
solve old strain history together daily. It's an amazing community of learning away from IG,
and it's an amazing resource for old catalogs and knowledge.
We hope you join our union of breeders and growers. Come check it out.
