It was like I was connected with everything around me.
All of a sudden I just started questioning everything I'd ever been told.
You know, by the time I got high that very first time,
when it started to hit me,
I'm like, wow.
I got high.
I did not have the pleasure of interacting with.
I wanted you both to talk about your introduction to the forums.
It's going to be two different stories.
Rahul, you want to start?
What was your introduction to the forums?
Early 2000s, I discovered that people had started using the internet for weed.
I was shocked.
You can imagine, right?
Anyway, I looked around.
I was doing a business trip out to Amsterdam.
I knew that's where the weed was.
I figured I should try this new tool and try and find stuff about coffee shops.
That was basically it.
I was scared to be on any site that talked about weed back then.
The early 2000s were a time before proxy servers were out there.
Having anonymity of any kind on the web was really a pretty fuzzy idea for most people.
A lot of people just went up there boldly with a fake name
and keeping their fingers crossed that nobody's going to put a sniffer on the line
and start tracking traffic and grabbing IPs.
It was just painfully simple for tech people to really get some useful information back then.
I finally got over my fear and said,
screw it, I'm going up there.
My landing spot of choice was Mr. Nice.
I've been looking at different forums out there for the community,
how people treated each other, the knowledge level.
I figured it out real quick that a lot of these places were organized around specific companies
so that they were just a marketing communication site for their customers and the company themselves.
There was bias in every one of these places.
Mr. Nice had a great story about the original stuff from Neville.
In a world of imitators, we got the original stuff
and we're the only place that still makes it the way they always were.
Co-signed by Howard Marks too.
By Howard Marks, right?
Who had nothing to do with Neville back doing that stuff.
Super cool guy and RIP.
We all miss him.
It was the best story out there.
What I didn't realize is that there were wars going on between these different forums for the different companies.
Sensei and Mr. Nice had people who were going on what appeared to be raiding parties to other people's forums,
going and posting a bunch of troll noise and stirring up trouble and running away.
It was the equivalent of kids at a school dance, afraid to go talk to the girls on the other side.
They were all defending their legends, their myths.
The foundation story between our seed lines is cooler and older than the foundation story for your old seed lines.
Nothing's changed in 20 years with that regard.
Stories sell, pictures sell.
Before, all we had to worry about was the story being alive.
Now these days, the pictures are...
It's like they don't even need a plant to start with by the time they start photoshopping everything up like that.
With AI, that's actually a thing now.
The AI can develop cannabis plants.
All these guys, they don't really even have to put any effort into testing.
Really? You need a new picture? Here, AI. Done.
I don't know. Mr. Nice was a great place.
It's volatile up there.
You're dealing with people who are taking a chance with their safety and their livelihoods by posting up there on the internet,
trying to make a connection with somebody else who's into the same stuff they are.
Sometimes people get really stressed out.
They start worrying and getting paranoid about their security up there.
You see people just flip out and run away.
It happens even today.
Mr. Nice was great.
I know that most old-timers were up on Overgrow and Cannabis World and some of these other forums.
I came in right when Overgrow was about to get rated.
I started sniffing around. I was like, hey, maybe this is it. Maybe this is the time.
Yeah, right?
I almost signed up. I might have even created a profile just before they got rated.
You came in about the same time I did then, right around 2006, 2007 era?
Yeah, as far as reading.
Online reading and stuff like that.
No accounts, no log-in, no PM, no nothing. Just pure stalking or whatever.
Lurking. I was a big-time lurker.
That's the man.
Cyber creep is what we call him.
To echo what Raho was saying, I did not know very much about computer technology or how it was tracked.
I always felt like it was a risk.
I was scared to look at Overgrow and Cannabis World, but I was also a fly to honey or something.
I couldn't resist.
I just tried to avoid trading or doing business on there or telling too much about my personal life.
To speak of Mr. Nice or Howard Marks, I remember reading his autobiography.
He said one of the worst things he ever did was set up a switchboard in Amsterdam that he thought was going to be smooth to clear all his calls through.
That just allowed the American government to listen to everything I was saying.
It was the worst decision I ever made, but I was trying to consolidate things.
I had no idea about IPNs or VPNs or any of that stuff that Raho was mentioning back then.
I was not computer savvy in that sense.
I had no idea if an interested party could just pop up and see my address.
Overgrow and Cannabis World were different in the sense that Overgrow had a wider range of participants.
It had way more shit-posting teenagers yelling at you.
It also had Sam Skunkman and Camara and different heavy hitters at the time posting on the Breeders Lab.
Madjag, you were showing off some of the art that existed back then that growers would put on their products.
Sam was showing off his collection of all the different art that he had collected and localized.
That I found fascinating.
Cannabis World had a little bit more adult discourse.
It was smaller and it was policed a little bit better.
Not policed by cops, but policed by members.
They didn't allow quite as much rudeness and throwing poo at one another.
It was interesting then too because it documented well the switch from Amsterdam to Switzerland.
Breeder Steve, Shanti and a bunch of those guys transferred from Holland over to the big Swiss.
In a lot of people's cases, that was the first time they ever saw large grows.
Greenhouses full, acres of that type of thing.
There were obviously some select people that had done that themselves.
For the most part, people first saw that on Cannabis World.
We learned a lot.
That was also to what Raho was saying.
Sam Skunkman had about four or five different handles.
He was know-it-all for sure.
He was Jingles.
He was Sam Skunkman.
You started getting people that started getting very vocal about their version of their narrative.
Pushing that narrative very hard.
What we've learned over time with the forums is that the people that are often and early,
typically that becomes sort of like cannabis lore.
There's a lot of people that might add more nuance to it.
The people that were willing to get out there and type it up and put their story out first,
it carried a lot of weight that people were willing to do that.
We had an example earlier before you popped on where we were talking about the Chem Dog story.
We popped up an old graph of Chem 91, Chem D, and maybe Chem 4.
It was like the tree of lineage of things that had been crossed to it and what was related to it.
That lore has been there for ages.
The other day we brought it up that things are always fluid and changing as we learn new things.
It was a good example of it.
One thing that I think we should mention too is that I live in Mendocino County,
which is like tons of people grow weed.
I was able to hang out with folks and talk weed a lot all day long.
It's just part of my daily life.
What was so attractive about the forums in my opinion was it was the first time that nationally
and internationally people could talk.
There was a lot of people that started talking from places that were much more sketchy back then.
Police states, if you will, states that didn't have any medical, didn't have any recreation,
didn't have any of that.
For a lot of those people, the only place they felt safe to talk about it was online.
They didn't talk about it with their friends.
They didn't talk about it with their neighbors.
There might be a tiny percentage of people that even knew what they were up to.
But if they were weed nerds, they had this burning desire to chat about it.
Online provided a semi-anonymous way to shoot the shit about cannabis.
It was really interesting for a lot of people because before then it was just small circles and groups and friendships.
You really didn't see how the other half was living.
And pay phones.
And pay phones.
Mad Jag, what was your first forum experience?
What brought an old vet like you onto the scene to mess with the newer generation?
Well, when Arizona went medical, I got my green card in 2012.
Because I was more than 25 miles from the nearest dispensary, I was able to, it said,
license to cultivate.
So I could grow my six plants in my backyard or 12, whatever it was.
And I felt relieved because I was doing it semi-legal.
I mean, you're supposed to have an enclosure with eight foot walls and one inch thick metal door.
Some crazy regulations.
But I decided mine was safe enough.
Close enough.
And I started searching online.
I had done quite a bit of research already on weed just to see what was on the internet.
Probably starting back, I don't know, I would go to a store in Sedona that had a T1 line.
And a T1 was like fast.
Yeah, that was the best.
This is during dial-up days.
And the dial-up at home, if you were trying to even look at one photo, you would wait a minute.
One single naked lady took forever.
So going to this video store that also had T1 lines, they had little booths where you could get on the internet.
And it was fast.
I could do in one hour what would take me five at home.
And it cost, I think it was $9 an hour.
To use their T1.
To use their T1.
And somehow, then I started, well that was the early stuff.
But later, once I got my license in medical, I thought, I wonder what the seed world is like.
And I started looking around and I found Mr. Nice Forum.
Because of Mr. Nice Seeds.
And some of the original people on there, like Sensamea and a few others, became sort of friends.
I talked to them on the forum there.
And that's where I met Rahu.
He had a different handle at that time.
And one thing led to another.
Then I discovered ICMAG and I joined in 2012.
And the same year.
And a little time went by and then, I think it was Elmer Bud.
It was either Rahu, Rahu, you remember?
It was either you or Elmer that invited me to this other forum called Perception.
For myself, I can say that the thing that was so crazy for me about Mr. Nice specifically,
was I think it was, I can't remember if it was 2009 or 2010.
But all of a sudden, Neville popped up on there and started answering questions.
And I was like, oh my God, you can just talk to him.
And you can ask him all these burning things that I wanted to know about.
And then, there was people like, he went by Dogless, but there was Ortega.
There was some other various heavy hitters from that zone.
That once they realized Neville was on there, they joined too.
Sam, Yosemite Sam.
Yeah, and then Yosemite Sam from Amsterdam.
And then, so as some of those real people started joining, there was an era there from probably,
I don't know, 2009 to maybe 2011 or something.
Where all of a sudden, for me, being a younger guy compared to those guys,
you could listen to some of the giants talk about Maple Leaf or talk about this.
Or you could ask Neville questions directly about some of his lines.
And he'd give you answers and where he got the, and Seattle Greg was posting on there about the NL.
And all of a sudden, you had this collection of what I call first generation growers and breeders
and hustlers and movers and shakers all communicating.
And you could read what they were talking about to each other.
It's still there. That's such an awesome, well, I want to know this.
And so, I kind of felt like I was a fly on the wall.
And I started saving basically every Neville post and every,
of course it starts all the arguments and the back and forths and like the,
are you telling the truths and like the, do you remember this the right way type of deal.
But yeah, that was what was so fascinating to me about Mr. Nice was that all of a sudden,
all these cannabis like legends, pretty much everyone with the exception of Sam.
Yeah, no, Sam would have, we would have, we were talking about the wars earlier,
like me and a few others would go invade ICMAG and do the jib jab means like the fake Kung Fu ones,
representing Neville. And it would be like arguments between Neville and Sam.
And we would post those on ICMAG and they'd come back on Mr. Nice and post theirs over on ours.
It was like, yeah, it was a full on war.
That was the first time I saw you Matt, you know, it met you online anyway.
And, you know, but you know, not so you're right.
That was a magic moment at Mr. Nice when Neville came back there and, you know,
the ability of any member to just pop in and ask him questions and, you know,
like just, and the attraction, how people could not stay away.
Like you mentioned Camara and, you know, Matt was there of course.
Who else? Douglas,
Hempy and Big Herb.
Yeah, Big Herb was definitely there.
There was a lot of people that were involved and like,
Kenga, Kenga Vita.
When I first got, when I first started really meeting people in Amsterdam,
I realized that like there was a bunch of older guys that had beefs with each other
that didn't get along exactly. And they had their versions of events.
And then they would just continue said war on whatever forum got created of
this is my story. And then they'd be like, no, no, no, that's ridiculous.
This is what happened. You're so full of it.
And there was these camps that would form on like Matt and I joke about it of
like, which shady character do you believe more?
Yeah. Because you could poke holes in any of us really to some degree.
Yeah. You know? And, uh, but yeah, that was Douglas.
Douglas was Ortega, you know? Um, and you know,
he gave Neville four or five super important lines, um, that still remain.
There's a lot of mystery to them. Um,
but just watching those older guys communicate with each other and dropping
things that were maybe normal to them, but were gems to us was a,
was a pretty magical time. That era of Mr. Nice forums was pretty cool.
Yeah. Yeah. And, and of course, like, like you mentioned,
there were other, other people that weren't big shots at the time,
but turned into big, you know, people that, that we've all heard of today.
Um, and had valuable things and valuable insight, you know, to add to like,
you know, what, what, what was Santa Cruz like in that early,
late sixties, early seventies era?
What was this going on in some different depth to things?
And so there was some really intelligent cannabis conversation going on,
uh, in those years right there. That was pretty cool.
Yeah. A lot of it, sadly, some of those old Neville posts have been
disappeared. Yeah. Yeah. They're getting,
they're getting cleaned up to help with the clutter.
Yes. Yeah. Anything, anything contrary, you know, um, last night, I,
did you see that when I, I think I texted it to you last night, not so,
it was a screenshot of a post from Shanti saying that, um,
Nordle is super skunk. Oh yeah.
He did that on IG two days ago or something like that.
Was that confusing to you at all? Uh, it wasn't so much confusing. I mean,
the, the problem that you have with anyone, not just Shanti,
but with anyone is that you get their version of what's going on.
And do you have others that will, can corroborate like what they're talking
about? You know? And it's like, you know, I know for a fact,
we know for a fact that Sean,
that Neville sold a huge amount of seeds to Shanti and that they worked
together and did various things together for a period of time.
And so there's this no seed company that I'm aware of is ever admitted that
they've ever lost anything ever.
Uh, Simon, Simon has admitted he's lost the parents to Kelly missed.
I believe. Well, that's just in general, in general, you know,
like this is what's crazy is you guys is that like,
if you go on since he seeds website right now,
they still have Neville photos from the eighties as their description,
you know, for their depicts, for their descriptions of their lines. And those,
and those photos were taken in 1988, 1989 and 1990.
And they're still the same ones.
That's not even the worst part though. I mean,
then you read the stories and it makes it sound like the drunkards climbed their
way through the Himalayas to get, meet the farmers, you know,
and they personally brought it back, you know,
in a CIA helicopter, you know, I mean, it's just, it's never was insane.
Neville was the only one to admit, yeah, we lost that. Yeah. This died. Yeah.
This changed. That was my fault.
And the rest of them almost universally are like,
that makes identifying things difficult because, um, you know, they,
people obviously don't want to admit that they lose certain things because they
want those modern sales.
Right. But you know, it goes beyond that though. I mean,
let's assume that the cuts got lost, but so what did they have to dig through,
to replace it? You know, are they, you know,
of course they never admit that they lost anything. Okay.
So we'll take that for granted. And then, then we assume, okay,
they won't admit it, but we know they've lost something.
So what did they have to work with to, to,
to pick the replacements themselves? You know, in the case of Neville, he did,
you know, he, a lot of the posts that were deleted,
we're talking about Indica's and his breeding work with Indica's. Yeah.
And, uh, which is, is interesting.
Cause I haven't seen that Insta post that you're talking about where they're,
they're claiming that that Nortel is a super skunk. Yeah. But you know,
you can see that this is one of those things where that's partially true,
you know? So the parents of super, super skunk,
Afghan tea and skunk one are contained in Nortel. Yep.
Sure. No doubt. But do we think it's pure Afghan tea plus,
plus skunk one? Probably not. No, no. I mean, Oh,
how we wish it was right. But it's not.
And Neville in those old posts that are now missing,
it talked about how he mixed,
he crossed all of those maple leaf, um,
cuttings together. Yeah. You know, he had the Ort 15,
the Afghan S, Afghan tea and big bud,
and big bud Cush four and one that was a big bud like,
yeah, he called it big bud, but it was not the big bud straight. Right.
Correct. So it's like, go ahead, go ahead.
I always view Shanti as a bit like the, the,
the bridge troll or the Sphinx that wants you to answer the three riddles.
And so, you know, you're like, just give it to me clear. And he,
and he'll just like, you know, he'll dance around the topic, you know?
And so, you know, we know, um,
one of the interesting things that we found out is that we weren't exactly
sure how large the collection that he bought off Neville was.
And apparently it's so large that people involved think that he couldn't even
get through it in a lifetime if he wanted to. Wow.
So then it really just becomes about like,
does he have the eye and does he have the selections because he has the
genetics? It's just, you know, how many mothers does he have?
How many fathers does he have? Is he pulling them out of F twos?
You know, what kind of, I agree completely,
but there's actually something even more does,
is he even doing the selecting himself? And he, yeah, sure. Yeah, exactly.
I mean, uh, cause I don't know. I've seen some,
I've seen some people working or Tega and,
and some other, some other fresh seeds from them that don't look.
The, the, the, the Finos that I saw, you know, 15, well, 10,
10 years ago are not in there anymore. Yeah. And I was like, dude,
I don't know what to tell you. If, if we would have known,
if I would have known that basically every five or 10 years,
the seed game completely changes and what you thought would be available for a
long time is now disappeared forever. Um, you know,
Matt and I were looking at, uh, we,
I have a friend with a freezer that got out of the game and gave all of his
seeds to a good friend of ours. And my, my,
most of those seeds are from 2009 to 2012.
And Matt and I were just shocked that like maybe 1% of those seeds are still
available today if you wanted to buy them. Yeah. So, you know, the,
the Neville era, the sensei era, the, the serious era,
like all these different seed companies,
maybe they have the same stock for four or five years. Right.
And then something happens. Like we know that Shaunti got rated in,
in Switzerland and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and,
and he got rated in, in Switzerland. What did he lose then?
What did he have before? What did he have after? And a lot of those cases,
um, they don't,
it doesn't benefit them in any way to like be completely upfront.
So then they're not, you know? Yeah. Um, yeah. And, and I've been,
we've been trying to get Shaunti to admit for years if Nordl was his version of
super skunk. Yeah. And he never would.
Up until, do you remember, do you remember, um, Raho,
when this strain came out?
Cause it was originally another strain that he had listed.
And I think it was just called Afghan skunk at the time. And he said,
I'm changing this to Nordl in honor of,
I can't remember what it was fucking in honor of maybe the Mr. Nice movie
coming out. Yeah. It was the code name that, um,
Howard Marx used to describe a load of hash.
But I think it was cause the movie was coming out in UK and he renamed it in
honor of the movie. Cause in the movie they make that a big deal. Okay.
And I remember correctly that context to that too, because I met, uh, Neville,
uh, briefly a few times and one of his partners in the nineties in Amsterdam.
And after he left Sensi, he had to call super skunk ultra skunk
because Sensi had trademarked the names to most of his genetics.
Yeah. And so therefore Sensi owned the name super skunk.
And so from the time he, I mean,
I remember cause I bought some ultra skunk, he had to call it ultra skunk.
Um, and so in that case of Shanti was going to sell his version,
he literally couldn't sell super skunk.
The only people that can sell super skunk in Holland are Sensi seeds. Gotcha.
Because they bought, they owned the, um, they,
they trademarked almost all the names. Yeah. To be honest, I'm kind of shocked.
He didn't like throw devil in there and shit and like all the other stuff that
are like Afghan skunks, you know? So there's,
so I do give Shanti a little bit of slack in the sense that he has to be,
it's hard to,
it's hard to say some of these things because there are,
there is some legality and that's what's kind of going on now too,
is people are starting to try to patent names in America in different areas and
different regions and being like, Oh, well we have this name. Um, and you know,
uh, but it's interesting too, like, um, you know,
like the one name that they didn't pack for some reason,
they don't have a patent on NL five Hayes,
but they do on super skunk.
Yeah. That's probably the Illuminati has something to do with that. Yeah.
Yeah. The can Illuminati. Ooh. And then, yeah. And then, and then he,
and then they patented all the NL names, you know,
so they had to call the NL stuff different work. Yeah. That's why,
that's why I believe was a Dutch passion, Matt.
They had to call their NL two version Oasis. Yeah, I believe so.
We'll find out, we'll find out. They, they seem to be open to talking and yeah,
I will say Dutch passion, um,
out of all the Dutch companies I've ever reached out to Dutch passions,
like been open to sending me their old catalogs, scanning them in,
like helping with the archive.
So I was stoked to interview them because they have an actual genuine interest
in the culture. And I remember like they,
they were actually have been at the forefront of some cannabis testing and
they've, they were actually have been at the forefront of some cannabis
technology. Um, I want to ask them about their artificial seeds.
They were the first to push artificial seeds and,
and sell those and some of their clone clonal strains as artificial seeds.
And, uh, it, it disappeared.
I don't know if they only tried it in Europe for a while, but it was,
it was so far ahead of its time.
This is like 2012 when they were doing artificial seeds.
So I even think they were the first person I ever saw talk about feminized
work. I think there are some of the first that were selling feminized before
Americans, you know, people like you, Matt or CSI.
I think they coined the term feminized.
They coined the term some of the first people that were involved on the
American side of things.
I think I first saw it from Dutch passion offering up, you know,
feminized.
They coined the term.
I didn't know anybody ever made some of the,
sold some of those artificial seeds,
which is basically a tissue culture right.
And in a tiny little capsule, is that basically the idea? Yeah.
Some sort of Mary stem or whatever.
It's some kind of clonal tissue. Yeah.
Some kind of tissue.
I remember Camaro was talking about that and I was like, yeah,
this is another thing I'm never going to see. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. I was super stoked when they started doing it, but the problem is,
because it's a, um, it's, it is tissue culture.
Not everyone can get these things to quote unquote germinate, you know?
I mean, it takes real genuine care.
Yeah. You don't just throw it out in the yard and set up the sprinkler,
you know, I mean, the idea was that you like, yeah,
the idea was that you could hopefully like plant it under dirt and it'll
just grow. But I mean, people have enough time,
hard time popping normal seeds, let alone artificial seeds, you know,
he was talking about that stuff about the same time that he was doing his
massive clone collecting, um, all over North America.
Who's that Camaro. Yeah. Yeah. He was talking about, oh,
we're going to make these artificial seeds.
It's going to be tissue culture and we'll preserve them forever. You know,
it gave everybody the idea that he was going to be the dude
repository of all this precious germ plasm for the rest of the world,
you know, and he's going to out of the goodness of his heart.
I will say that when I was reading on the breeders lab on overgrow,
that Camaro was one of the most intimidating people on there at the time.
I was probably in my early twenties then.
And the depth of like breeding knowledge that he had,
like in the education that he had and sort of like the ego and dismissiveness
that he had, like it, uh, it really made me, um,
but it also made me intimidated me for, for lack of a better term.
I was like, am I, how am I, but then there's this weird part where the older,
I've gotten, I definitely think we need, you need to know some of that,
but breeding is as much art as it is science to me.
And you really have to have the eye and some luck maybe, and really,
and really tested smoking wise and see what's going on because it's not just
strict science. Um, what you're after is invisible.
Well, we were talking about, we were talking about this the other day. It's,
so it's, it's great point, you know, of all these,
all these multi-million dollar bankroll, um,
genetics operations that are trying to come up with the next big thing in
cannabis, you know, what have they produced every year?
A new batch of winners comes from, from, you know,
from banjo playing moonshiners in the Hills.
Well, wait, everything that was done the year before.
And yet you got these boys in their white lab coats and, you know, with the,
with the gas chromatographs, you know,
looking at the DNA and what are they coming up with? Um,
no, I mean, when Matt did his, when Matt did his, uh,
actually talking about that,
I will say that I saw an interview with Shanti that made that I kind of totally
agreed with him where he said that his CBD work is very scientific and it's
very documented and it's very by the book and it's very that way.
But he said the cannabis side is almost all judgment and art.
Yeah.
And I found that very interesting observation that he felt like the science of
getting these CBD, CBG, CBN type things. It was very,
very documented based and it was very, very testing based.
And he said the cannabis side is still the eye.
It's still looking and hunting.
You know, part, some of the goals of that, of that, um, CBD or the hemp market,
the hemp market is to come up with strains that will,
will produce from seed consistently low levels of,
of THC with, you know, those,
those threshold levels of cannabinoids that allow them to legally grow it.
And it's, and it's really, it's, it's tricky to do that. And then once they,
once they figure out how to isolate, you know, certain ratios and they're,
they're trying to explore that and create, you know,
in strains in seed that can produce other cannabinoids, you know,
to the exclusions of others. Um,
all of this made necessary by regulation, of course, you know,
if you could just grow,
you could separate the different cannabinoids and have one plant that grew them
all. But, you know, because the, the laws, uh,
differentiates between hemp and, and, uh, regular drug cannabis and, you know,
they have to treat these things differently, but.
Yeah. I mean, one thing that's interesting about that too,
and it was like my second favorite part of that Shanti interview was that he
said that one of the differences between what he was doing with his crew and
others is that a lot of others were working with hemp to breed CBD and CBN
and CBG stuff.
And he was trying to breed that stuff from drug cultivars and bring it out in
the regular lines that had already been bred for consumption.
And I thought that was an interesting approach. You know,
he wasn't necessarily trying to breed it from hemp.
He was trying to bring it out in the lines that already existed from the
cannabis side of things.
I've grown some of his lines that look like they might've had some hemp in
them.
I would concur. Yeah.
This is completely off topic and I'm not trying to derail it, but, uh,
Raho, your new avatar is the stuff of nightmares.
But to get back on, to get back on target for a second,
one of the things that I do think was revolutionary about the forums opening up
was it really was the first time that people outside their own friend groups in
the cannabis space could start communicating with each other and people from
different parts of America or Europe or Australia or wherever could start
talking about something in ways that had never happened before.
And so despite all the, the, the,
the attacks and poop throwing and wars that got started over things and people
being mean behind their keyboard,
it really did advance a lot of things and it really did give a base, um,
for people to start discussing things in public. Um,
because at the time that all those,
at the time that all those things first came out,
I think overgrowth started in the very late nineties.
If I recall correctly, only California had medical at that time.
Yes. Um, so it was just in the infancy of, you know,
not being totally illegal everywhere. Yeah. Um, and you know,
and it started to slowly spread, but I do think that, um, you know,
and there's a lot of people we could probably talk about, like, like, you know,
we, everyone laughed when I said hempy,
the reason why everybody laughed was because he was a, you know,
he was argumentative, you know,
and people had personalities and people like Vic high or, you know,
people were famously like, my God,
you say the wrong thing to Tom Hill 20 years ago. Uh,
and he would just tear your head off 20 years ago. I see daily back then,
you know, like in that, in that era.
And so there started being the first like weed internet personalities.
And then when people like Sam skunk man got online or people like Camaro,
like there was like heroes that started. Yeah. Um,
and it was also the first era to me where visual aspects of cannabis became
very important. Like when people started posting their stories around, um,
you know, blueberry and people started posting these crazy, I mean,
that's where your passion for it started. Right, Matt,
you start going online and looking at these posts and you're like,
what is that thing? Yeah.
The purple is this story and what is this name and why does it look so mutant
and why is it blue and why does it have all these purple leaves?
And especially like pre cookie, it was wild looking cannabis. Oh yeah.
I was, you know, and people started exchanging legends. I'm like,
I still have things saved, you know, from, you know,
Kanga Vita and these different guys talking about the different can get Tiva
food and get Tiva. See, I'm talking about the mate mangling it,
but posting these mullum, you know, uh, these,
these different mullum phenos and where people got things and the,
on these old school photos and, you know,
stuff from Switzerland and all that.
And it started giving people a view into other people's gardens almost for the
first time. Yeah. Outside of friend groups.
What's this Matt Jagg from, from RICO.
I was going to ask if either of you know, Rico,
I don't know him personally, but I know who he is. Sure. Okay.
Says his joint date was 2006, but this is,
these are photos from 2004 of a 79 Afi and a Pakistani 1982.
Oh, nice. Yeah.
The different structures. Look at him. One looks like Urkel.
I bet that's a packy on the left. I would guess. Yeah.
The left is the Afghani. Oh, wow. Well, look at my dumb ass.
Fuck. I was thinking the same thing. Yeah. Wow. That's very cool.
The one on the left looks like Baba to me.
A little bit like Baba. Deep chunk. Yeah.
I just see Urkel looking at that bad boy.
It has that same overly leafy structure. And you know, it's funny, actually,
I got a picture of G13 the other day and ran it by Neville's old partner.
And he's like, yeah, that is G13. That's exactly how I remember her.
And it was from an old cat and it wasn't even a catalog.
It was an old magazine clipping, uh,
I think from high times or head magazine, one of the two.
And it was of Neville's grow room and had G13 had a few shots of NL five,
but that also got Neville's old partner to tell us that G13 was apple
smelling green apple smelling, which I never knew.
And I've always heard burnt rubber, all this other stuff,
but I've never heard it directly from any source that had it, you know,
like what the scent profile was. And he says, green apple.
That's fun. Yeah. That's a trip. I can hear that as, you know,
I can interpret that as being kind of salary citrusy, maybe, you know,
with a little bit of that, that acidic bite, not necessarily citrus, but, um,
I don't know. The other thing,
the other thing I found crazy about the forums is like you jump on and you'd
see some threads that would get locked and then you'd be like, Oh,
why did that get locked? And you jump on there.
And then there's like all these spicy arguments that go back and forth about,
about what's true and what's not. And there's people that, you know,
that was kind of the first time where your popularity in some instances like
led people to whether they were going to believe you or not.
And people would start poking holes in stories.
And it's also this same era where a lot of the people have told a bunch of
stories on various forums at various times.
And some of those legends don't line up and it's like all their own words.
And so in 2004, this is what I wrote.
And then in 2010 I kind of changed it and I wrote this and now in 2018 I'm
talking about this and now today I'm talking this. Yeah.
And it's interesting because it puts down on not on paper necessarily,
but it puts down to some degree, um, a record. Um, you know,
there's some things like IC mag,
like you guys were mentioning even on Mr. Nice,
it puts it down on a record until someone in the managerial capacity on the
forum decides to either lock or eliminate certain posts because it doesn't fit a
narrative. Yeah. So it's not perfect because definitely on IC mag,
there's been, there's been things that have gone off the reservation,
if you will. And, uh, the thread or certain comments disappears.
Yeah. And I, I try to remind that to, to people who are researching nowadays,
they, it's, it's hard to remember a few things. If you're like, let's say you,
you showed up, uh, 2016 past, you know, 10, 15 after that,
what you're looking at is a very, um,
it's just a small sample of the forums that were available. Like IC mag,
THC farmer, roll it up. Um, but there were a lot more forums than that.
A lot of private forums. Like we talked about, there were,
there were other just smaller forums, couch lock cafe, you know, a pot pimp.
There were, there were a bunch of them out there and those are long gone.
Seed Depot gone. And you're seeing a small section.
And most of these forums were run by people selling either a seed bank or had a
seed bank carrying many breeders or were run by a breeder themselves.
And 99% of the time you were, it was very clicky.
So you'd have people who were asked to see to the owner of the forum,
they would become the moderators and it would become a lot of cheerleader,
rah, rah stuff. I felt like, um, and it happened everywhere.
Even on my forum, you know, like that I ran, it was,
it was very right centric cause that's just the way it worked out, you know?
Um, but people are seeing a very small screenshot.
So if you're coming into the forum era now trying to go back research,
you're missing a lot of context and a lot of data is mainly what I'm trying to
say. Yeah. People, uh, people delete posts,
they threads are locked or, or post deleted. Um,
sometimes you know, entire threads are, are removed.
Yeah. Do you guys, do you guys remember the crusty buckets? Oh yeah.
I mean there was these Canadians on there that were growing like in,
in grow rocks and they were growing like very few plants,
but they were growing two to four pound plants inside on this crazy
hydroponic NFT method called crusty buckets.
And there would be some forums,
there would be some threads that would just go on for hundreds of pages.
Yeah. Um,
a combination of people asking tons of questions or the original poster,
posting updates. Um, you know,
people started posting like grow picks and you know,
like I bought these seeds from this group follow along as,
as I pop these things and see what I find. Uh, and you know,
and a lot of like Matt's right in a lot of those cases it was,
it was specific to like who the breeders were on the various forums. Yeah.
Um, but I have a bunch of cool picks from Mr.
Nice of various people trying out different seeds or some of those people
were like, Oh yeah, I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to,
I'm going to try this out.
And then you have all those old timers coming on and you know,
posting stuff that they had. Um, and then you're like, Oh,
that person saw that in that era. Wow. Yeah. Okay.
I'm going to really like pay attention to what he's speaking about because
you know, there's not very many references to it.
Do either of you guys remember bite me from Mr. Nice? Oh yeah.
I can't find him and I've been trying to find him.
I know you guys have other old friends out there,
an old smuggler and he's responsible for one of my bestselling lines of all
time. And I've never been able to thank him, but he was a wonderful,
wonderful dude. Hmm. You know,
Florida see what I can find.
There was a guy on there named big sir who used to post a lot about
apparently he was from central central California, same general,
Santa Cruz type of region. And you know,
he offered up a lot of his opinions on like what was around and what he was
seeing and what Hayes was like and like different, you know,
just different stuff like that. And whether it's true or not,
it's always valuable to get different people's opinions on the same era
because people have different memories and different experiences too.
It's a, it's a little sad when you see people like, you know,
I'm not going to say big circus. I'm not sure if this applies to him, but,
you know, older guys telling stories from way back and,
and they're active and they're up there, you know, every, every week or,
you know, every couple of months they'll,
they'll show up and they're talking about what they're doing.
And over time that they just start kind of dropping off,
showing up less often until finally they just don't come back. Yeah.
You know, I've seen enough of those, the,
just the really old stories kind of like what, what were, you know,
Jaggie and I started talking about when we came on here are the older ones are,
are disappearing at a, at a rapid rate.
So I'm glad you guys got us on here. I don't,
I don't like to think of myself as being in that category of a, you know,
a perishable item past the sell by date on the shelf. But yeah, I mean,
I used to ask, this is probably 20 years ago now,
but I used to ask my grandpa like what it was like getting old. And he,
he shows, you know, it was the weirdest thing ever. He goes in my mind,
I'm like 28 with a bunch of wisdom until I drop something on the floor and
then I bend over to pick it up and I'm like, Oh, I'm old. You know?
And it's crazy too, because it's like that to me, like, you know,
I grew up in the eighties, the eighties doesn't seem all that long ago,
but boy, it's getting farther away all the time. And you know, the,
like the first and second generation even of,
of cannabis growers in America that span the sixties and seventies, those,
you know, that's, you know, there's, there's less and less, you know,
viewpoints and then the eighties even there's less and less viewpoints.
And so that kind of history,
like that's why I think this is so cool of what we're all doing is like
getting some of that oral history down,
whether it's written down or whether it's like, you know,
talked about on, on, on like this is pretty important.
Or a strain or a strain index online that, you know, one of those things.
One of the craziest things about this was like being able to talk to Mad Jag
about like skunk one from the late seventies or early eighties. Yeah.
Like that's wild to me because having someone that had actual experience
growing it then like,
and growing a good amount of it and being able to see what it was really like
incredibly rare.
Not only that to me, it's,
it's not just having someone with experience that grew up back then,
but someone that had experience growing other stuff and had experience with
cannabis and different,
the different experiences cannabis had to offer already before growing skunk
one. So they, they could sense those nuances,
those fine difference in smells. That to me is what,
what separates this story specifically from a lot of other people's old tales.
Oh yeah. I grew skunk one in 85, you know,
it was skunky. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. This, this is,
having someone that had experience growing other stuff and having experience
growing other stuff.
And having someone with,
with the nose and the eye that was there that is as interested in the genetic
aspect too. That's as nerdy as all of us.
And as advanced as an archivist as he is, I think that was,
that was key and that was really important to have that.
One of the things that super humbles me in cannabis is that it seems like the
early raw work that people do ends up being the best.
And then they get older and more experienced and they try to make it better
and they make it worse. Yeah. You know, and you know,
Neville admitted that like he got the Hayes and you know,
the F ones were the coolest thing he ever did with them.
And the more work he put into it, he goes,
none of the poly hybrids were nearly as nice as like the,
the first crosses I made. Yeah. And he's like, I tried and I tried,
and I tried and I tried.
And then I had to agree that like the first stuff I did was better than
anything I did after that.
Hey, can I ask you guys a little NL question? Sure.
Have you ever found an NL Fino that was high in terpenelein?
Yeah. I want to say yes. In NL five by two.
I agree.
And a lot of the NL five by two repros that came out from old stock have a lot
of mild to moderate terpenelein nose. Interesting.
So it's in the Afghan Pakistani lines. Okay. So, you know,
that terpenelein is so, so strongly associated with Neville's Hayes.
Yeah. Right.
And I've heard you guys talk about that once you get it in, in a line,
it's, it's damn near impossible to breed it out.
If you decide you don't want it in there anymore.
Just kind of curious because, you know,
I think a lot of people associate that terpenelein with the,
with Hayes a right. Because yeah, yeah, yeah.
You don't really get those Finos in an SSH or a mango or any of those other
skunk NL Hayes combos that are around.
You don't get that heavy. You get it from Neville's. Right.
So people think, okay,
well what's the difference between Neville's and everything else?
Hayes a is the main thing.
And so they immediately attribute that terpenelein to Hayes A.
But I'm wondering if it would just was the female that he used to make
Neville's Hayes that had a terpenelein dom, you know,
Northern lights mama.
So the interesting part about that is that if you believe Neville's tale
about NL five,
he grew a bunch of the seeds and they were a big mix of Indica,
sativa, hypochlorite,
and indica.
And so he was able to get a lot of those seeds out of the hay.
Mix of Indica sativa hybrid Finos that were all over the place and crazy.
And there was this one Fino he found that almost looked pure Afghan.
And that's the one that he picked to breed with.
But the seed line itself was definitely a Afghan sativa mix.
And so it's entirely possible that in Neville's selection of NL five,
there was some genes in there that combined with other genes could pop out that
terpenelein in plants.
Very much so.
See Matt's going to get excited about this.
Cause I,
I remember Neville's statements differently than what you're saying.
Not to,
so,
Oh yeah.
Let's hear it.
Yeah.
So,
I mean,
you're saying that,
um,
what,
what did you say?
Oh,
he went through the,
the seeds he got,
right.
So there were two at first he wanted cuttings and seeds from the original NL
crew.
Then he had a falling out with those guys who knows what it was about.
Maybe money.
I don't know.
Um,
and,
and he wound up going to kind of somebody in the NL crew orbit,
not the original guys to get those seeds.
Was that Seattle?
Greg was the guy in the orbit.
So I believe Seattle,
Greg was the original guy that he was getting them from.
Okay.
And if I remember correctly,
it was Don downs,
the Indian.
That he got it from the second time and that he went around them.
That he wasn't,
he wasn't a veteran.
His son had served or something.
And he,
you know,
they,
they kind of the,
anyway,
it's,
it's got all the hallmarks of,
of one of those old bullshit legendary stories.
But,
um,
you know,
the,
the,
the main thing is,
is that Neville Neville blew his deal with the original guys and wound up
going to kind of a side periphery guy to get the seeds that he would
ultimately work with.
And those seats,
you know,
that Neville said that he concluded that hit the,
the,
the five,
the cutting he kept as NL five,
he believed it.
Oh,
you just dropped five.
We just buy two.
He differentiated.
He called the U S the U S five cut.
He said that there were only two true,
true breeding male lines in,
in everything that he got.
It was the NL one.
And the NL two were the two male lines that he had to work with.
I remember that.
And he called the NL one of a pure Afghan and he called the NL two,
a cush.
Yeah.
Kush type,
you know,
based mainly on the smell of a juniper,
but he said that the rest of them were a big hybrid mix and a mess.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But they were labeled.
I think he might've said that they,
they came labeled as this and that and the other thing.
They tended to run true to what the description said they would.
And I might be mixing that up,
but I think that's what he wound up saying.
And you know,
some,
some would be more narrow leaf than the others,
you know,
based on what they've been out crossed with hybrids.
Well,
as I understood it,
Neville,
he had the five clone,
right.
From,
from Greg and crew.
Well,
he got it.
He got that later after he had done his own selection of,
of Neville's five.
Regardless,
when he got it,
he didn't like theirs so much according to him.
And he made his own cross that he called NL five using the Steve Murphy,
Afghan and what his Mazar or the Steve Murphy Afghan cross to the Hawaiian
cross to his Mazar or something like that.
So there's a cool story.
They agree when they finally,
when,
when they got the NL five clone that they had selected from America and he
got to Amsterdam,
apparently they sent it over in a terrarium full of plants.
And in order to get the clone over there,
they took a pair of scissors and they cut off all of the serrations on every
leaf of the NL five.
No,
no.
Greg.
I asked Greg,
this story.
He said,
no,
they took it to a florist who made a flower pot type thing.
And they just stuck that in there.
He said he didn't know anything about the serrations.
Interesting.
Maybe,
maybe it is.
Yeah.
They might've,
the florist might've done it.
One thing that Greg mentioned that,
that Matt and I never knew whether to believe or not was Greg always,
Greg said in this one post one time on Mr.
Nice.
In fact,
that the NL one was actually Steve Murphy Afghan that he had gotten from
Steve Murphy combined with a Neville Afghan.
He got from Neville.
Right.
And people speculate all the time about which of Neville's Afghan that was,
that was used to make the cross and Neville never answered the question.
So,
you know,
for anybody to say it's this one or that one,
you know what,
there's no evidence to support it.
You're just,
there's one,
there's like one or two people I can ask that may know,
but not more than that.
And even they,
I doubt they'd know that one.
Right.
Yeah.
But that's,
that's one of those ones that the people who are saying those things say it
with such conviction that it sounds like that,
you know,
they were there when it happened,
but yeah,
you know,
it's so yeah,
the NL one is supposed to be.
You,
the Steve Murphy Afghan times,
some other affies from Neville,
apparently who knows what,
what it was.
It was the purest.
And the interest,
the interesting part about the interesting part about that is that,
you know,
if you look at like Neville's NL one,
every time he tried to make a back cross or every time he tried to stabilize
something that was from clone,
he always used NL one pollen to start the process.
Yeah.
And he,
he said that it was the only pure Afghan line he had that was reliable.
And everything else he had that was an amazing Afghan.
He got mostly in clone form.
Not so we'll devolve every show into a show about Neville.
Every,
I mean,
we were talking and,
you know,
sign,
sign me up.
What the hell he's like,
he's like forums.
Let's do it.
And we can,
it does suck because we were also mentioning to get it back to the forums.
The reason why we sort of lost Neville on Mr.
Nice was him and Shanti behind the scenes kind of got into a tip with each
other over money and access and seeds and this and that.
And Neville got mad and left.
I will,
I will actually say exactly what happened because I was there and he told me
exactly,
and he's no longer with us.
So I'll tell people his opinion,
cause he was very adamant about this.
He said he sold Shanti the seeds when he did for,
I want to say $250,000 or $150,000.
So that one,
I can't quite recall.
And he felt that when he came back in 2010,
that Shanti had more than made a fair share of profit and that he felt he was
still owed,
even though that wasn't a part of the deal,
he felt he was still owed that money because Shanti had capitalized very well
on his work.
Well,
not just his work,
but his name,
his name.
And that,
his reputation is everything.
He'd been making it sound like those two were,
were,
you know,
back in the rooms together doing selections and shaking the males,
you know what I mean?
Listen,
that wasn't happening,
you know,
it was Shanti working with Neville stuff.
Occasionally they'd exchange a message or so,
you know,
like how do I find a skunk one plant that doesn't suck?
And Neville would say,
well,
you know,
if you figure it out,
let me know.
Yeah.
And he was just in,
and at the same time,
the,
the opinion of a lot of people there was that Shanti was not as upset or not
as stoked with all the attention Neville was getting.
That seems to be the general star.
Yeah.
He wasn't super online.
You're like,
Oh my God.
Yeah.
One thing that we could maybe ask Mad Jag and Raho,
when you guys first started getting online and first started looking at
forums,
what was the kind of information or the kind of stuff you were seeing that
like really excited you or like changed you?
You know,
like,
because I mean,
it's different for all of us,
you know,
but like,
what was like,
you know,
when you're perusing different threads and seeing different things,
where you after history,
where you were excited by some of the new stuff you were seeing people post,
was that the ability just to connect and start direct messaging with others?
Because it sounds like you guys built your friendship off of the forums,
you know,
Something interesting about the forums that we haven't mentioned is that
there's a good number of people as myself too,
that were banned.
I was banned from IC Mag and I was,
you know,
I was actively.
You would have done to get banned.
I was actively recruiting super nice people and people who I liked for
another forum.
And I was,
I was,
I was,
I was,
I was,
I was,
I was,
I was,
I was,
I was banned from another forum and it was a small forum.
And since we're talking about forums,
then one day I came to go get on IC Mag and it,
it wouldn't let me on.
And I found out from other people who are there saying, oh,
your,
your your thread is still here.
Old school,
Arizona.
I said,
but I can't get in there.
So I talked to,
I actually emailed Tom Hill somehow.
I remember how he did.
Yeah.
Tom should straighten things out.
Send Tom in there.
I'm thinking that we need a voice of reason.
And I got back in.
Oh, wow.
And he did something.
I don't know what it was.
And it lasted for about two more weeks, and then I was gone again for good.
One of the people, the only way it happened, but one of the people that I was recruiting
or asking if they'd like to join this other forum, narced on me.
And it was, well, how else would it happen?
And I never figured out who that was.
Or they were reading DMs like they always did.
But anyway, I waited a year, and then I went back on under a different name.
And I was concerned that maybe they were tracking IP addresses, and they'd go,
oh, here's Magic, trying to sneak back on.
But they weren't.
And I've been on since then.
I go on about every six months.
I went on today because my ex-Grove partner, I was telling Matt earlier,
released the information about the book he wrote called Year of the Magic.
And it's a fictional story that uses our experiences.
And he  so I went on to 
At some point, did you meet like, you know, Paul Newman out in the desert on a motorcycle
and save his life with some water,
and he rewarded you by giving you a tab of something that you don't really know what it was?
Did that happen?
Did that really happen, this fictional account?
Not that one.
But it's my ex-Grove partner, and he's using the name MAD space capital J-A-G.
And I just posted a little link on there to my magic.com website
because five people have the right to use the name Magic.
And I talk about that on my website because they were people who grew with me.
And they deserve it, especially him, because he did it for two years with me.
And the two big years when we grew skunk, it was John.
And he lives in Taos, and he has for years, 40 years now, I think.
And he's not worried about being exposed or talked about, so I'm mentioning it now.
I hope his book gets a lot of traffic.
I'm sure it's killer.
Yeah, so anybody listening right now, when this book is out, please give it a look.
It's from one of the genuine partners.
It's on ebook right now on Amazon, I believe.
What's it called?
Year of the Mad Jag.
Okay.
And what's the author's name?
John Slater, S-L-A-T-O-R.
There you go.
And it's J-O-N, just John Slater.
Wow.
John worked in the BBC for 10 years before he came to the U.S.
And when I tried to get him on a particular forum, since we're speaking about forums,
the fact that he was into movies and film, all sorts of people got very paranoid and said,
yeah, well, what if he starts taking our photos and posting them and putting them in a documentary?
So he wasn't allowed to join because he had too much.
And it's so ridiculous.
You know, when somebody first comes on the forums, just like John did back then, the author,
it's weird, you know, because you're first all of a sudden you're inundated with real live people's opinions about these products.
And maybe you've been looking at high times or whatever.
All you've seen is advertising information.
Yeah.
Glossy pictures, you know, maybe some pretty girls.
You know, they mix it all up to hit you from every angle.
And then it's got an exciting story about some intrepid adventurers climbing up into the freaking Himalayas and battling the Yeti to steal his seed stash.
And I mean, it just goes on and on.
And you believe it.
And then you get there and there's half of the crowd on the forum that you've decided to read is saying, that's all lies.
And the other half of the crowd is saying, it's all true.
But you immediately realize that it's neither.
It's neither all or all true or all false.
But, man, that's kind of an eye opener.
And then the whole experience of like group dynamics, you know, where people will line up around one color.
You know, we're for the red seeds.
You know, no, we only grow blue seeds around here.
It's just a horrible thing.
Well, not to answer your question, I got on because I wanted to see what was out there in the whole weed world.
I knew it from my perspective and the people I knew in Arizona and other places, but I just had no idea that it was so expansive.
And when I saw Mr. Nice Seeds and all the things that were possible, I bought some seeds in the auctions they had.
Yeah, they were in Switzerland, I believe.
They were mailed from Switzerland and they got through fine.
So it was kind of cool.
Were they in straws?
Oh, wow.
I think they were.
They weren't in the hollow board yet.
Yeah.
No, one of the ways that those guys like to send things, they would put seeds in like a plastic straw, write the name on the straw,
and then burn or seal the ends of the straw itself.
And that's just why I asked, because I've gotten straw, you know, corrugated seeds.
I've gotten lots of straws from Shanti.
And I ordered from him before the auctions, even if we want to date stamp it, and before we even started auctions.
And I got them in straws even then.
Did you ever used to get Shanti's old private email lists of his seeds?
I was trying to dig up one for Natsu because he had never seen one of his old, like when you were, if you're one of the breeders that was on a site during like that Neville era,
he would share a list with some people of the like one-off crosses and stuff he made, you know, you could buy.
But he only shared with some people.
Yeah.
So like I've been trying to find one of these old lists because I had a bunch, but I don't have them anymore.
Speaking of just to fill in a little bit, speaking of Mad Jagg talking about getting banned.
Yeah.
There was a lot of ways that people got banned.
Some of it was you started talking about a narrative that the owners or people that were connected to the owners of the site didn't agree with.
That could happen.
Sometimes it was just you would get on and start talking your truth and then you'd be immediately crapped on by a bunch of different people calling you a liar and calling you names.
Let's face it, like a lot of cannabis people, like, you know, social interaction is not our strong suit.
Right.
So you get online and you start typing out your truth or whatever.
And then a button and then 20 kids are insulting you and telling you that you're a dick and you get mad and then you start saying ruthless things back.
And then, you know, yeah, that's the Matt, the Matt version.
Right.
And, you know, then you get banned for, you know, your thread gets locked because it goes beyond.
Let's talk about facts to like, let's let's throw insults at one another until somebody cries.
Yeah.
And so, you know, forums were like and there's also the you know, you talk about the keyboard warrior thing where anonymous people getting annoyed with each other can spit some pretty, you know, pretty heated stuff back and forth.
And, you know, sometimes it's very difficult.
How do you you know, there are some legitimate long term liars and scammers that have used the forums to advance their interests.
And then there's also people like Mad Jagger, others coming out of the shadows, just telling truth.
And how sitting there in front of your computer, do you differentiate between the two?
It can become quite hard.
And some of the scammers are extremely personable.
Yeah.
And some of them are elders in the community.
And, you know, like you want to to trust your elders because that's how a lot of people are raised, you know.
And then there's people like, you know, Tom Hill or or Hempy or different people where if you cross them the wrong way, they're just going to like, you know, they're just going to write out a written evisceration.
They didn't have a lot of patience.
There was a girl who went by the name Weird.
I think, Matt, we talked about this, but yeah, he he was always giving Tom Hill a hard time in the early years that I was like 2012, 13, 14.
Yeah.
And Tom would just let it happen.
But then when he came back, like you said, he would just pound the guy, you know.
And there was some thought that Weird was actually a woman.
I'm not sure that's true, but he was very intelligent.
He wasn't just like, yeah, saying you're a liar, Tom or whatever.
But he he just wouldn't let go.
He was very much a bulldog.
And Tom earned a new he earned a new fan the other day.
You know what?
I'm sorry, Matt. Go ahead.
No, it's OK. Yeah.
He just earned a new fan on Instagram the other day that is convinced that he's going to prove that Tom's Hayes is a hybrid somehow.
I don't know. Great.
Another another another Don Quixote there.
Yeah. I think it windmills. Yep.
And yeah, it's hard. A lot of times people in cannabis are better with plants than they are with other people.
Yeah. And so you start interacting with other people, you know, and it, you know, forums.
It's like it's hard to stick to the facts.
People get upset. People don't like being called a liar.
People don't like being called this or that or whatever.
And then there's people that just doubt or they get they read other stuff and they get their facts wrong.
Well, you know, the weird thing is, like, how long do you have to be online before you have your first experience that it's like, oh, my God, something I was absolutely positive was the truth is not true.
You know, because that happens with with, you know, pedigree provenance stories.
It's and but it takes a while. You show up and you're you're you know, you're a virgin.
You believe everything you've been told by the marketing of every seed company ever.
Yeah. I mean, all of a sudden. Right.
Watching, especially on Cannabis World, where Sam Skunkman was no at all for sure.
Watching those arguments about Skunk One and Hayes go down.
You know, you're like, well, what do you believe?
Which people there's all these people that are absolutely certain that this person is full of shit.
And this person's absolutely certain that they weren't there and they're full of it.
And people get defensive and that it would just go on and on and on and on and on and on.
Well, I mean, pages. Do you know the story of White Widow very well?
The two competing stories? Well, one of them is that.
Let's see. There's a Brazilian sativa.
Manga Rosa.
Rosa and a corolla.
There's a random Afi in there somewhere in one of the stories.
Yeah. And the corolla. Yes.
So and then it's that's Werner, right? Or Ingmar Deschambeau.
Ingmar. There you go. Ingmar or Shanti.
One of those two. Both of them claim to be the creator.
Correct. And I believe Shanti has a little bit more detail in his in his description about how it came to be.
The other one is just kind of like, well, I woke up one morning and I pissed out White Widow.
Yeah, it was it was it was like a hash bean, if I remember correctly.
And one of the in Ingmar Deschambeau story was that a bean in a hash.
If I remember correctly, there's something called the plank.
PLANCK, some kind of Colombian or not.
Maybe it wasn't Colombian, something like Brazilian.
And they and I think he did say corolla as well.
And I believe he traveled to India to get his as well, just like Shanti did.
And they both magically came back with this same exact or not exact, but similar parentage hybrid with the same exact name.
My experience at the time, the people in Amsterdam tended to believe Ingmar and the people online tended to believe Shanti.
It's definitely indisputable that Shanti is the first person to release a seed line to the public using that name.
And and it does appear that the, you know, all the hybrids, you know, and things like that, that started dominating the cups like the White Widow and the Great White Shark and.
And I know. Yeah. White, white. Right. And, you know, even like peacemaker.
Yeah. Peace peacemaker is actually great.
And that's Ingmar's. No, I don't think so.
Yeah. Ingmar's peacemaker.
Ingmar's peacemaker. I think these guys all ripped each other off and I think most people trying to find a good guy on that list is just it's, you know, I mean, I don't I don't I don't condemn them for it or anything, but there's a lot of money involved.
I mean, there you know, I remember because I was a young kid, I was you know, I was a young adult then I'll say, you know, barely, barely legal, if you will.
And getting those high times and they would have these high, glossy photos of all the winners in 95, 96, 97 and all that.
And you'd see the AK-47 and the White Widow and the right rhino and the Great White Shark.
And they won. They were like the best weed out there. And, you know, those kind of strains started dominating.
So it was like they probably made milk. They probably sold just umpteenth million seeds based off those spreads.
So many people from America coming to Holland looking for those exact strains that they saw in high time.
So there was a lot of monetary battling going on over, you know, over access in that regard.
Marketing, the marketing legends were the difference between, you know, first and last.
Yeah, I mean, I would and even even when we're if we're talking about the forums to trail it back to that again, like the I would say that the forums are really what made DJ Short and his blueberry work famous.
It's what made the original Brothers Grimm with the Cindy 99 and and all that very famous.
You know, Vic High's work back then. Some of some of the smaller breeders that were just getting started.
A good long 200 page thread on something could spark a career on some of those early forums because there wasn't that many people doing it.
I mean, I remember looking at all that blueberry work and being like, I never seen weed that looks like that. That's crazy looking.
Yeah, let's go spend a couple of thousand dollars and then does it smell like fruit? Does it smell like it looks? Why does it look like that?
And then there was a time we've talked about this on a previous podcast, but we I used to go to these parties that were basically a gathering of a lot of these people that had met online in Northern California.
You put your keys in a bowl. Is that how the party went?
And not quite, but I thought this was a different podcast.
It's no, not quite. But they but everything when I was hoping to find a bunch of like ancient varieties there and like everything was crossed with blue work, white work, sweet tooth.
It was all those early 2000s famous Breeder Steve, DJ Short, White Widow, White Family, all that because those were the big seeds of the time. And it was also pre reversals and pre feminized work.
So it was all kind of normal stuff. I was hoping to find a bunch of ancient stuff and it was all the most at the time, the most modern, all the most modern lines.
The new, new, the new, the at the time, the hype, right.
You know, the hype, Blue Widow, you know, you know, everything by Sweet Tooth Three, everything by Louie, you know, everything by Blockhead, all that kind of stuff.
Chinese seeds, Hero Huana.
Yeah. Cindy 99, the first edition of Brothers Grimm when it was Sly and Mr. Soul. Those guys were very famous on the early forms.
And then they, then they disappeared. And it's like the demand for their seeds increased when they were no longer around, which had that whole phenomenon of, you know, creating a whole bunch of new people, you know, making their F2s, F3s of Cindy 99 and discovering, holy crap, this stuff breeds true.
Or like the Dutch Flowers group. They were some of the first people that were, they would, they would write online, like what I consider now to be like professional ad copy, you know, of their strains.
And it was very done and it was designed to elicit emotions and feelings and they would write extensively about how amazing it was.
And they would do that for weeks or months and get everybody hyped and tell them they didn't have enough seed to give everyone and then they would release their seed online and it would sell out instantly. And they would do that every time.
Huh.
How about the first, first seed sellers that were massive, like World of Seeds, where you could go on there in Great Britain and they had, they had every other seed company, you know, they represented just hundreds and hundreds.
I remember one of my first was Seed Madness. That was real big from the UK, was Seed Madness. They had everyone.
Remember Heaven Stairway?
Yeah, that was, that was earlier before the UK slam.
I didn't realize it at the time, but Heaven Stairway was tied into both Overgrow and Cannabis World. And so when they got raided, both of those forums went down.
Yeah.
Because I didn't realize it at the time, but that was, that was the, that was the group. They were all the same. It was all different facets of the same, the same group, I think.
It would be interesting to talk to Richard Kalrizian now, if he would. His name's well known. I don't mind saying it. You know, the old owner of Heaven Stairway. It would be very interesting to talk to him because he would have a lot of answers about Dutch Flowers and a lot of other companies that are very vague because he worked with everyone.
The only time I've ever got info on Dutch Flowers, oddly enough, was from Charles Scott, reefer man. And he was who kind of gave me info on it, but I don't want to repeat it because I don't even know if it's true coming from him.
But I will say that like Dutch Flowers, they would write this ad copy and they would just write like descriptions of strains that went on and on and on and on. And by the time you were done reading it, you were just ready to spend a thousand dollars out of your pocket as soon as they would let you to get as many of them as you could.
And then they'd sell out and you couldn't get them. And there'd be people online laughing that they got some and all stoked. And it was like unbelievable how much they were willing. They were able to build momentum for each seed drop.
Yeah. And they reminded me of alien genetics when they came out on the farm in like 2011, 2012, 13. Like it was just like every drop they did was just like a thousand dollars a pack, two thousand dollars a pack every time. And nobody knew who they were, but nobody cared.
It's really expensive and there's not enough for everyone, but we're going to drop it at this time and you can all fight over it. And it was like, it's a cool way of like how human nature works when you hear something that's rare and desirable and you see other people posting about how bad they want it and you want it. It's only going to be there for a minute. And you're just like, take my money, please.
It was really clever.
And these people were nice enough to, I didn't even have a way of making a digital photo to send to them. But they, they believed me and they sent it again and I got them. But someone in the post office, you know, just
You can tell that Herbie's a good guy from that picture of them on their ads with the dreadlocks and everything. He looks real cool. That's gotta be Herbie, right? I thought that was him. So, yeah. And then you had these people who wrote these legend stories, right? Like the origin of Skunk One.
Oh, yeah.
It's like a novel, you know, it's like a short, it's like a short fiction book.
I've got a book, Sensey Seeds did them. Sensey Seeds had great longs. Yeah, it was like a tape.
I remember Jesse's pretty well from Mr. Nice.
Yeah, 100%.
I thought Jesse wrote those. And the thing is, the Sensey ones were almost identical.
Yeah.
Which made me think, holy crap, was he actually working for both sides of the battle? You know, what is he?
Wouldn't that be funny?
Yeah.
If you remember, Jesse posted fake pictures of UK Cheese as the head picture for UK Cheese, too. It was the little Cuisio. I always get it wrong. I always say it's White Skunk, but it's like White Skunk One something rather. But yeah, White Widow Cheese or something.
He had a whole series on Mr. Nice where he would come out with a lot of the original strains and these extremely long and detailed stories told with utter confidence about where they came from.
Yeah.
And, you know, sometimes they say like in news, it's better to be first than to be right.
Yeah.
And that is the case online as well. Get your tail out there and get repetition going on and defend it. And then eventually it'll burrow in and become part of the fabric of the story.
Candace Earworms. And then some people on your podcast will invite you on to explain how that story doesn't make any sense anymore.
Yeah.
You know, what's funny is one of the decisions that Matt and I made about the podcast and the reason we started talking about old stuff from the 70s and 80s first was because there was less people that were going to get super offended and fight with us instantly about telling what we know because it goes against what benefits them or they're making money on some angle on it or whatever.
There's only so many people that are actually interested in cannabis history. Most of them are interested in making themselves look good and making money.
CSI often reminds me that we are weirdos because we actually give a shit about what's in our weed.
We are the actual weirdos that care enough to archive, to really delve into what's in strains and then what's in those parents. That's weirdo people stuff. And we're those people. And he reminds me all the time, Matt, not everybody cares like that. It's kind of weird that we care like that. So it keeps some perspective.
It's a minority, a dying minority that are genuinely interested in strains.
It could be growing minority.
Why does it have to be a dying minority?
I'll disagree on that one strongly because I use this analogy all the time.
But I kind of think cannabis right now is where like wine was in the 70s where it's like people know for the most part they know about white and red.
And what they know about red is red goes with like pot roast and it's like deeper and like men drink it.
And white wine goes with fish or it's like your lady likes it. It's not as like it's not as robust.
And then that's really what people knew mostly about wine in the 70s. Right.
And then you fast forward with 30 or 40 years of education and people are talking about I like my Cabernet Sauvignon from this Appalachian in Napa or this part of Mendocino County or I like it from here.
And these guys that make wine, these vintners are my favorites.
And there's so much depth now. And you have like sommeliers that come to the table at fancy restaurants and explain the nuances of these expensive bottles they want you to buy.
And so I think cannabis will go in that direction for some percentage of the market.
There's going to be a great desire for information.
It's just we're in its infancy.
And so now people are fighting over the history, you know, because it's going to become more important and people are going to want, you know, marketing stories, too.
You know, they're going to want to sell their version of things.
Makes sense to me. Market trends. Yep.
So everything you just said sounds right on.
You know, the question would be, is that percentage that are connoisseurs that are willing to spend the extra for the good stuff?
If you compare it to the alcohol business model, you know, the majority of people are going to buy, you know, the cheap beer that, you know, they get the best bang for the buck.
Other people, you know, become, you know, like to get the good stuff.
They drink in moderation and savor it and, you know, make a big deal out of it, whatever.
Same thing with cannabis, except, you know, there's just there's so much.
Cannabis and alcohol aren't the same, right?
I mean, you drink a gallon of one kind, you drink a gallon of the other.
You're going to be just as dead either way.
But, you know, with cannabis, the differences are so great between one strain or another.
So it's not exactly the same.
You know, it's not like 10 hits of bad weed is not the same as one good hit.
Yeah.
And there's and even if it's just a small percentage that's interested in what we're interested in, that has the potential to still be millions of people spread out over, you know, a wide area of humans, you know.
Well, that's where those numbers grow is by the increase in number of people who smoke in general.
Yeah.
Right.
I think that the 20 percent, if we're going to think that 20 percent are ever going to give a shit about about quality, you know, then that that number, how do we grow that number of 20 percent so that, you know, an army of of old school hill hill, you know, boys from the hill can keep making a living off of their special their special stuff?
I have thoughts on that, too, because coming from like being like a Grateful Dead hippie when I was young and all that, like when I was younger, the only place you could get organic food was basically like crunchy co-ops and odd places.
Right. And then I'd like to say that it was like us that pushed it forward.
But we really didn't. Who really pushed it forward was like there was some yuppies and some wealthier people. And they're like, you know, I drive a European sports car. I wear these really nice shoes. I wear tailored suits. Why don't I have a nicer grade of food?
Mm hmm.
You know, and and there's going to be a whole group of people that get into it and they're going to want a nicer grade because everything else they have in life is nice.
Right.
Like that's just how, you know, they have nice wine, they have nice shoes, they have nice belts, they have a nice car, they live in a nice zip code, you know, all those different types of things.
And, you know, some percentage of them are going to get interested in cannabis and they're going to want high grade cannabis because they get high grade everything.
Yeah.
You know, and that's why they're the reason why you can go into any grocery store these days and have there's at least a small organic section.
You know, yeah.
Well, and plus, you know, one difference between food and cannabis is food.
Food would be described as an essential.
Right. You have to have it to live.
Cannabis is not necessarily unless you use it for medicine that true.
But again, you know, you don't need Italian leather shoes to live.
You had a lot of people buy them.
Yeah.
You know, and if they don't fit, you have to acquit also.
Yeah.
Those Bruno, Molly, I don't know what I'm talking about.
Those little fruits.
Out of my price range.
This might have to get edited, but Matt, I have to bail in a second.
Oh, that's all right. We're good right now.
We have about an hour and a half in and I know Raho's got a bill soon, too.
Yep.
All right. So let's let's record some kind of exit.
OK.
Go ahead. Not so.
If we're going to record an exit, I will just say that the forums were amazing because they were the first time that worldwide cannabis enthusiasts got to insult each other, share information, throw poop at each other, fight about what the truth was and share their personal stories outside their own little friend group.
And for good and bad, it totally changed how cannabis people interacted with each other.
It made a bunch of friendships.
It made some enemies.
It turned something from very local for most people into nation or even internationally wide.
It forged a bunch of friendships over a long period of time of people that met through forums and and direct messages and stuff like that.
And so technology combined with loosening laws in America that made people feel slightly more comfortable to get on and talk about things is really what sprung forward.
You know, a lot of information exchange.
And I don't think any of the four people on here talking today would be talking without that Internet advancement, for lack of a better term.
That's why we we we've met each other.
All four of us, you know, except that.
So I say that, you know, that that change was a sea change because it brought together a lot of disparate groups of weed enthusiasts and allowed them to make friends or argue or both or whatever and push information and history forward.
So it's it's been a massive positive, in my opinion.
And the massive number of new strains hybrids really was fostered on forums, you know, where people exchange seeds and sent you a private message and said, Well, I've got these and you got those.
And then next thing you know, they're being crossed with another one and proliferating crazily.
It also one thing I should say, too, that made me think of it when you were speaking is that it used to be before the forums and before the Internet, that it was only a very few number of seed bank seed companies that were allowed to sell stuff.
And when the forums came about, a lot of private hobbyist breeders started being able to exchange their work with each other.
And as Madjag said, that was revolutionary and push forward hybrids in a way that no one expected, because it went from a few dozen companies to literally thousands of people exchanging their work with each other of their own private projects and and getting famous.
And some people got famous. But even if they didn't, it just spread the germ, the germ plasm around all over.
Yeah.
Sam and Rob Clark both told me that the only when I was asking them at a later date, the only seed company or seed bank that they felt was legit was Seedsman in Amsterdam. Seedsman, just for whatever it's worth.
Yeah, well, they've sold a lot of stuff through Seedsman and they are one of the more legit houses out there, that's for sure.
You know, I think that the Internet allowed us to grow the community.
I mean, not so you were a deadhead, you know, went out on tour, you know, bought whatever you bought on Shakedown Street and got friends probably still from those days.
I didn't I never was a deadhead. You know, I I like their music, but I never went and saw them on tour. And I hate that I missed that.
But, you know, it seems like with Jerry gone and that we all know that that that movement that served a function of of propagating and preserving genetics, you know, people brought their best to the show because they wanted to show off to their friends.
And, you know, I mean, it wasn't just to make money to get to the next show or whatever. It was you know, there was pride associated with that and competition.
When those when those events stopped, you know, I guess I guess the Internet kind of took its place.
It did. That's a great point.
Yeah. And, you know, and it took it to places like way beyond we could have ever gotten to in those parking lots and cell phone numbers or, you know, whatever.
However, the old connections were made. Yeah. Pay phones and beepers.
You know, this summer will be twenty five years that I've lived in Mendocino County.
And I absolutely would not live here if deadhead friends that I knew from from shows and tour had not lived here and invited me out.
Yeah. One hundred percent.
So, I mean, that's, you know, the health the health of the community as it exists today is because of forums, you know, and and I like to differentiate between community and industry.
You know, the community is all the people that kept this stuff alive when it was illegal everywhere.
And getting caught could be the end of, you know, ruin your life.
Literally, you know, all those people who who did the work when when the when the the the consequences were so grave, you know, those people are part of the community and the industry.
I think we all know what the industry is.
You know, it's it's it's the big business that that hopes to get rich off the back of of that legacy.
And, you know, I'm not I got nothing against big business, but, you know, it's it's it seems that the to the community and the type of things that the community has has worked towards and values is is in a collision course or in direct conflict with the industry.
Right. That the industry is all about money and that that drives, you know, production practices weighed in a way down in a negative way for quality standardization.
Everything turns everything homogenization. Right. Everything is the same.
You get the same mediocre crap everywhere you go. And, you know, that's I don't know. I'm all about the community versus industry and the communities wouldn't be here without the Internet.
That's a great point. Art, art and economics have always been uncomfortable bedfellows.
Right. Nice. Is that a quote or did you just make off the top of your head?
I just it's definitely not me, but I just spun it off the top of my head. You know.
Yeah, that's right on. All right. You guys got anything you want to get in for this week?
Matt Jagg, is your mustache bigger? This is about the same.
Yeah, it's handsome. That is a handsome mustache.
So I'm very much so. I shave my beard off a few episodes ago because you're right.
It makes you look much older and I am much older. So it makes me much, much older.
There might be an episode coming up where the beard leaves and it's it's him and I with full stashes. So we'll see.
Yeah. Handlebar stashes. I'll have to do mine just into a mustache. I've never had one. Just mustaches ever.
As far as you guys know, I've got a full mustache right now.
As far as I know, you are a apparition. You are a specter, a ghost.
A disembodied voice.
Disembodied voice. Yeah. Interesting. But everyone always super appreciate everyone listening and everyone's time.
OK. Don't end the show yet. So Matt Jagg, what was your partner's friend again? His name?
John Slater.
John Slater.
Oh yeah, his book. S-L-A-T-O-R. It's called Year of the Mad Jagg.
Awesome. All right. Everybody's checking out.
He's got a whole, on ICMag, he's got a whole thread.
Oh, fantastic.
So if you want to, you can see it and read a chapter and the rest of it you can get very easily.
So he's not going to hard copy, publish it. He's working on a second one right now that's going to be more real, like a biography.
It was like I was connected with everything around me.
All of a sudden I just started questioning everything I'd ever been told.
You know, by the time I got high that very first time, when it started to hit me.
And I'm like, wow.
I got high.
