Still says green room. There we go. Welcome everyone. This is Breeder
Syndicate and today we have CSI Humboldt and our co-host Notso Dog. So I hope
everyone's stoked. This is gonna be a good one. So we're gonna be talking today
about breeding goals. Notso, you want to take it away and run with the topic? Yeah
sure. So I mean the last few episodes or whatever we've been chatting a little
bit about like breeding history and various aspects of it. We talked a little
bit about terms and we thought maybe it would be better to chat about something
that's not talked about too often. Which is like what are your goals when you
take two things and you cross them together? What are you hoping that each
parent might give the children of that? And then talk a little bit about like
sort of the state of where things are and what's popular and methods and
things like that. So yeah I mean that's kind of where we're gonna bring it.
Obviously this is the first time we've had three people on it so it's a little
different. Super stoked that our buddy was willing to come on and join us
because he is one of the most prolific breeders that I know of. So he's lots of
it. He has lots of experience, success, failures, all that type of stuff. So we're
pretty excited to have him on and to be able to chat it up about this subject. So
we're just gonna kind of get started. What do you want to start at? You know
maybe we could just start at sort of like you know maybe we could just
start at breeding goals. Yeah. You know so maybe we'll start with there's a lot of
people out there today and this is a legitimate thing to do but I think
it's a little too common maybe. Where oh we just lost anyway so well hopefully he
pops back on. But we a lot of breeding today is you know people crossing two
things that they don't you know that most people don't have access to. Right
and then when you buy that when you buy that hybrid you're hoping to find you
know one of those cuts that you don't have access to. Right. Something that they
consider elite. Hopefully find it something that they can they can
consider elite right. So maybe a really really good example that's like fairly
recent. Yeah somehow Caleb was a was perfect for the 30 minutes and then
within 30 seconds of joining he got booted. So hopefully he'll pop back on in a minute.
But yeah you know well maybe we'll talk about like for instance Skittles for a
second. So you know Skittles comes out Skittles starts winning a bunch of
awards. The Skittles crew held on to Skittles pretty tight for a bit. So like
at Emerald Cup and some different other events people buying hybrids of it was
literally the only way that they could get a hold of it. Right. And so that's one
of the way that's one of the things that drives breeding. And in some in some
instances something gets famous. It could be Skittles could be cookies could be
Kush could be any number of different things. And then most people don't have
access to that cut because maybe it's hoarded or maybe the circles are still
pretty tight or whatever. And so the pricing and the desirability for people
to buy seeds of that thing become pretty high. Yeah. Supply and demand. How it
always works. Yeah. It's supply and demand basically. And so that that is
driven actually a lot of breeding because you're just you're just offering
up you know hey you can't get the cut but you know maybe you'll find something
in Skittles by TK that you'll like. Yeah. You know and that that drives a lot of
breeding. And so that's kind of been like one of the modern ways that people
do things is that they're mashing together a bunch of famous cuts. Yeah. It
was certainly the the the revolution certainly happened with feminized
breeding and it allowed you to eliminate males for the most part and breed. You
could take two very famous cuts and mash them together. And so that sort of
started this era of like I'm going to take a famous cut. I'm going to try to
reverse it and I'm going to put you know however many 10 or 20 other famous cuts
in the room with it. And boom. Now I have all these different lines. You know so
that's kind of that's one of the more modern ways that people do things. But a
long time ago and by long I mean say 12 or 13 years ago because I think Matt can
clear this up. But I think 08 09 you know that was sort of like the first era that
people started reversing females. Yeah. That's right around that 07 08. I would
say that some of the first people to do it would be OG Rascal. Absolutely. Matt
himself. CSI. There wasn't very many people doing it. The technology wasn't very
well known at that point in time. But previous to 12 years ago or 13 years ago
everybody used males. Yeah. That was the you used males. So we'll talk a bit about
males because that's sort of where you know that was the state of breeding for the
longest time. Yeah. You know. And one of the things about males that was it's a lot
harder than taking two elites that you already know people like two females that
are already awesome and crossing them together is males don't give you nearly
the same level of what's the best way to describe it. You get a little traits like
that you can sense. We use we use the feet. We consume the females and we only really use
males for breeding. So males you know what traits they're going to pass on was a lot more
mysterious. Yeah. Right. So what people used to do is let's say that you have some females that
you think are amazing and you know you want to cross them back in the day. You would have to
cross it to a male and see what and grow actually grow out the beans and see what that male gave.
Yeah. Right. And sometimes people would take like let's say for instance you know you might take
four or five different males. Yeah. Cross them separately to the same female and then grow out
each batch. Brian each batch of progeny. These two these two males I don't like what they gave to
their kids. That's not what I'm looking for. Yeah. But male three male feet three through the
traits that I'm looking for. Right. Yeah. So a lot of times it was pretty laborious in the sense that
you didn't really know which one you wanted to work with until you started growing their kids.
Yeah. And that's that's typically how most breeders do it. And that's how most breeders
have done it throughout time. So breeding used to be a much more time consuming process. Yeah.
In that regard to find things out you know. And you know so so that's kind of how that's kind of
how things started. But there was a lot of throw some pollen on your favorite females. Yeah. See
what happens. Right. A lot of things people don't that people take for granted when it comes to
males first is that there is one one single thing that you will use for selection on a male. Like
I only select males that are sturdy you know or I only select males that have hollow stems because
that's going to tell me it's going to breed the way I want. But back in the day. Yeah. You had
to run the progeny to see what traits are going to be bred for. It's not males don't have that
that high terpene content like females. So even if it did even if you have a male that you can smell
the terpenes on it doesn't necessarily mean it's going to breed that way. It's just an expression.
It's just an expression. So you know there's you know and so maybe maybe we'll we'll talk about
a few really famous lines just because they're they're they're famous so everybody should know
about them. And this is what people back in the day. So now what's very common is people mishmash
a bunch of famous stuff together and then they sell it and they're hoping that people will find
some nice plants or some elites or some whatever in their progeny. Yeah. But most breeding is not
done like that. Yeah. In cannabis and especially in other areas. Correct. Most breeding is I have
traits from this line that I want. There he is. You made it back. Can you hear us.
He's back. He's smiling. OK. So man. So you know most breeding back in the day was you would take
you would have two lines and you would have certain traits from each line that you were
hoping to combine into one line. Right. That was kind of that was kind of the goal. So maybe we'll
take something like like NL 5 Hayes because it's super famous and we chatted about it before.
So you know there was this Hayes plant. It took 18 to 24 weeks. It didn't form the greatest buds
but it had great high. It had a great great turf profile had a bunch of stuff and they were trying
to figure out how to make it semi reasonable to grow. And so they picked this NL plant which had
basically no smell but had a lot of a lot of crystal and a lot of you know a lot a lot of resin
a lot of good structure and it took way way way less time. Yeah. They were trying to blend
the flavor and the effect and the stretchiness of the Hayes with the resin content the shorter
flowering time and the bud structure of the NL. Yeah. Right. And that was kind of the goal. They
mashed them together. And then you know another point we should probably make is that the more
traits you're trying to find from each parent line in the children the harder it is. Yeah.
You know like talking about this yesterday. It's really really hard to select for more than
one or two traits in cannabis because it has so many fucking traits traits we don't talk about
like root. One of the main ones we don't talk about is root expressions different different
root sizes different root hairs. You know there's so many different expressions and you really can
only breed for a few traits and cannabis at a time. So yeah it makes it tough. I mean there was
a there was a line that that Shanti Baba released a long time ago used to be called Peacemaker was
also called Great White Shark. Now it's called Shark Shock I think. And you know it was it skunk
it skunk by White Widow. And I ran through a few hundred of those seeds. I really liked it.
I found some incredibly potent pot but all the potent stuff didn't taste like much.
And all the stuff that was really skunky didn't get me high very much. Yeah. And I kept trying
to find one that had both but I couldn't. You know I still liked it. I kept one for a long time that
was really really potent but it kind of tasted like it didn't have bad flavor it just kind of
tasted like like good smoke. Yeah. That was about it. Right. And so you know most people they don't
talk today about like you know and maybe Caleb can jump in on this too. But you know when you're
looking at two different things right. If you're going to cross skittles by this what do you want
each. What are you hoping that maybe each parent might give the seeds might give the children that
you are excited about. Like what are your goals. And that's kind of like the theme of what we want
to talk about today is like breeding goals. Oh we lost him again. So I teed him up to start
talking and then he disappears right. So you know. But anyway so I guess I'll check. He's there.
He's there. He just doesn't have video. Yeah your video is gone but you're here.
You can hear me. Yeah I can hear you I just can't see you sir.
My phone's acting up all kinds. I even have a thing that says warning it looks like your B.
So I'm thinking that's battery is overheating. Oh wow. Yeah so maybe try audio without the video.
Okay. Okay. Yeah we'll try it this way. Shouldn't be too hard on it that way. Oh right when connections
get low we'll cut the video. So maybe you've got some like Humboldt style 80s connections that.
So maybe audio will work. Yeah it's good audio. Yeah my connection is actually weak. I don't know
why. Can you hear us well? Yeah yeah yeah yeah. I can hear and see you just fine. Okay so basically
what I was talking about right before is sort of like when people cross things what are the ideas
and what are the hopes behind what they're looking for for each parent to give right.
What are the traits they're looking there or they're hopeful that the parent might give.
Right. You know and so one of the things that one of the things that kind of I think separates
CSI from a lot of other people is that a lot of people cross things and never test them and they
just release them to the public right. Yeah right. But if you if you go back on on CSI's page you can
go back years and see him running crosses of his own hybrids for a long time. And what that does
is that actually gives you an idea of what the parents you're using throw in their progeny.
And how they breed like continually. How they breed which ones are consistent breeders which
ones are a mess and are all over the place. You know there's some things out there that it might
be amazing clones that breed like crap. You know they don't transfer the qualities of the mother
cut into its children very much. And so breeders naturally when they find things that work they
tend to go back to them. Right right. I mean most people generally want what I consider mythical
plants. They want plants that are high yield high potency extremely flavorful just like you were
talking about. You know they want everything in one plant and not only one plant but they want all
the seeds to be everything. And that's not the reality of it. You know. Yeah. Like with your
skittles example. I mean it if I'm breeding with skittles my goal is to take the best characteristics
of skittles which would be the flavor and the smell and hopefully incorporate that into something
with another desirable characteristic from the other parent which would be maybe like
yield or potency. You know what I mean. So what's some of the other lines you've worked with that
that you feel are special for breeding for your purposes. Say what what? What's some of the other
lines you've worked with that you feel have special traits and characteristics that maybe
maybe they breed true for it that you really enjoy that you found over the years. Oh I mean you know
I love that love the Urkels the whole family. Yeah. I love Triangle Kush you know OG Kush in general.
I think it's just you know a great building block. And then the Kemp family you know which you know
most people know my opinion on that. I think it's just really Kemp 91 and everything past that is
a Kemp hybrid or polyhybrid. Yeah I agree. Yeah. I you know it's a it's a delicate subject but
I think that you know plants don't lie. And when you've grown a lot of these chem chem plants for
a long time and especially cross them and see what's in them it does seem that way. You know
you know one of the things that that came from me but I don't think anybody has used it more than
than Caleb is the Mendo perps is probably a good example because the Mendo perps is it's fast it's
fairly fast finishing. It's got crazy colors in it. It's got very unique turps but it's pretty
low potency you know in regard. And so you know one of the one of the you know one of the things
that that he he released that that you know got a named cut was this Obama Kush where he married
Mendo P to Bubba Kush and the Bubba added a bunch of frost. It added a bunch of structure. It added
much more potency. And then the Mendo P seemed to add a lot of pretty color and gave the Bubba
some different unique smells. That's the really good example of like taking the strengths from
one plant and crossing it to something else where those strengths are weaknesses. Right.
Yep. You know you know and then you know there's things that there's things that interest people.
So what I always recommend people do when they're breeding because breeding is a lot of work
and it's time consuming and there's a certain amount of failure involved is if you have goals
or you're passionate about certain plants you're using then that to me that's the coolest kind of
breeding. You know if you're like I want to take these traits from this plant and I want to see if
I can get these traits and these traits from these two plants into one plant. Yeah. Right. And you
know when you're passionate about something you know as as Caleb just mentioned he just rolled
through you know favorites and he might be able to explain at length why each one of those strains
you know why you know there's probably a combination of traits that he likes in each
one of those. And there's also probably a combination of not only those traits he likes but
they pass those traits on to the kids. Yeah. You know pretty consistently you know.
So I don't know I mean maybe you want to like one of the things you've told me in the past Caleb is
that of a lot of the things that you use the Chem 91 seems to be one of the most consistent breeders
for adding potency to its progeny. Right. Right. And you know on that one I I also think that
you know and I've told you both this you know plenty of times I have a strong suspicion that
I think the Chem 91 itself is an S1 from its original source in Colorado.
So I think that might have something to do with the with the you know its propensity to pass
on that strength because it's it's kind of like a bottlenecked S1 already you know. Yeah. And
you know anytime you go you know S1 S2 etc etc you know things I think are
more stable and easier to pass forward as long as they're not like a recessive. Yeah.
Yeah. But it's very consistent in upping the potency on whatever you cross it to
you know whether it's you know feminized or regular seeds or whatever.
You know what are some of the traits you like about bubble gum. I know that's one you use
extensively and your advice. I used it for the bubble berry. I'm super stoked on it how it
breathes. I mean I love the bubble gum cut because it's one of the best plants I've ever
grown out outdoors. Just more almost mold proof you know. Yeah. And it's extremely frosty has a
sweet you know bubble gum smell. And it's just a nice all around plant. Now. Yeah. Does it does
it compare with today's you know hype stuff. Probably not. But you know for you know somebody
who's farming outdoors and you know looking for something you know that's you know fairly stable
and you know mold prone. Yeah. Mold proof. I mean you know those are some of my favorite
characteristics of it. Yeah for sure. And that's that's one of the things that we should probably
mention too is that. So if you're really if you're passionate about breeding and you're trying to
combine certain traits I mean amongst us you know we might back and forth a lot of different ideas
and get excited about a lot of random stuff. But there's also this thing in the back of your mind
in which in order to be a successful breeder people will have to want to buy your stuff and
have success with it. So a lot of these practical traits like he was just talking about great
outdoor plant highly mold resistant that type of thing those things can be really important.
Right. Because you know people want like as Caleb was mentioning earlier people want
by a pack of seeds and that to be the best growing best yielding greatest structure crazy turps
you know super potent. They want all the beans to be that way which is rare. But then if even if it
had that but it molded like crazy people would be pissed. Yeah. You know. So if you if there's
problems inherent in a line like high mold or hermaphrodism or something else like that you
can better believe that people are going to focus on that rather than this is the most potent
flavorful fastest growing thing I've grown in forever. I found more bananas and a couple of the
big of the biggest coal is rotted. Now I think it's a shit cross. You know it makes it difficult.
You know because there's a certain amount of commercial satisfaction that's required.
Right. And oftentimes it's the environment that causes the problems. Yeah. That is very true.
You know or you know I can't I can't even imagine. I'm not I'm not a public breeder but both Matt and
Caleb are. The amount of you know the amount of responses they get of like hey these seeds didn't
pop right or they died a few days after I cracked them or they turned out like like shit and I blame
you. You know I mean most of the time sometimes sometimes it is you know of the seed maker but
a lot of times it's breed it's it's user error. I've never I've never gotten any comments like
that. Everything's always perfect. Everything's always perfect. You know and and we don't need to
we don't need to name names or anything like that because that's not the point of it. But
there was a super famous line that was released a number of years ago that was
very expensive and very hyped up and the people that made it didn't even bother to do a germ test.
Yeah and a germ test for people that don't know is if you're a breeder you take 50 or 100 or 200
of your seed and you pop them a few times in paper towels or in dirt or whatever and you make sure
that there's nothing funky and they germinate well. Yeah. You know there's occasionally crosses
you make that don't germ well. Forget about that amount and seeing issues. And so there was there
was a line that was released that they didn't even do a germ test on and then people bought
expensive seeds and then 70 percent of them didn't even pop. And it was so consistent that it
wasn't really user error because when you start getting just hundreds and hundreds of complaints
about the same issue. Yeah. A germ test is something that takes you know less than a
week to really figure out. Yeah. What do you think causes. What do you think causes the
you know poor germination rates like that. You know you know that I mean that you can speak to
it if you want. You know what's it called the sperm. That's in the in the shell might not be
developed properly so it wasn't getting proper food. It could be minor cracks. I mean sure there's
all kinds of fucking reasons but some of it would probably be what recessive genetics. People are
calling it out in the comments because it was obvious what it was. It was candy rain and I'm
not trying to get anyone. But one of the things one of the things that I was going to say is that
you can inbreed in cannabis more so than you can and other things a little bit. But when you start
inbreeding too much and you're in your hybrids are a mishmash of the same four or five cuts
over and over and over again you will on occasion start to get undesirable recessives
or undesirable traits that pop up. And one of those traits could be like some mutant funky seeds.
Blueberry. Yeah. But you know Caleb can talk about it too. But you know because he does a lot of S1s
and he's even done some S2s. But as you start going to S3 S4 S5 things start getting significantly
more difficult. The plants start getting way weaker. The germination rates become a lot tougher.
So there's a real limit there you know in how far you can inbreed before you start to hit problems.
And I haven't inbred that deep but Caleb has a little bit more than I have in terms of
experimentation. So you know yeah there's issues with inbreeding. You can combine undesirable
traits and have them become a little bit more dominant. Even in S2s there's a lot of plants that
will not produce pollen. You know they won't. Yeah they won't move forward when reversed of course.
You know. Yeah. And so you know reversals have become sort of the norm. It's flipped in the
60s 70s 80s 90s and the first decade of the 2000s. All breeding for the most part was
was what we call regular breeding using males and females. You know the only feminized breeding that
happened was typically accidental. You know hermaphrodism or something along those lines.
Bag seeds that type of thing. And you know and then the revolution happened you know 13 12 13
years ago where the technology on how to reverse cannabis became more well known. And now I would
say it's flipped and the percentage of people that use this actual males is extremely low.
And the vast majority of the seed game today is feminized in some way. You know. And it's a really
valuable tool. But as both of my co-hosts today can express you know we were joking before we
came on live is that you know when I use traditional males in a lot of my breeding I
never had a single breeding failure. Yeah. Where when you reverse things you can have failure.
You can have not very much pollen. You can have sterile pollen. You can have the pollen sacks
not open and you have to go through a lot of manual labor to extract using screens and stuff
the pollen from the pollen sacks. You know in the old days you have one male in a room. You're
guaranteed you're going to pollinate the entire room. Right. In today's world you know Caleb was
just chatting about it. He might use 10 or 12 females that are marked for reversal. Yeah. In
the hopes that a few of them are you know dump a lot and some a couple of them dump some and a few
dump a little and then you've got a few failures. And so it's it's it's pretty difficult because
it's not consistent. You know people have great success reversing a plant once and they do the
same thing again. And for whatever reason it doesn't work. Yeah. So the the you know we have
a lot of theories as to why is the mix too strong or too weak. Is there a range of of the mix that
leads to you know pollen dumping with some strains versus others. But it's mostly like observational
because we'd all don't have labs to really analyze why the failure went wrong. Yeah. You know. And
you know it also leads to you know in some cases you know people get mad at hermaphrodism. But
there's some plants that don't herm and therefore they're a bitch to reverse.
Right. Like I was telling you guys you know just just a couple of days ago I had to chop down a
whole room at four weeks flower because you know I reversed eight you know nice big bushes of old
Betsy and none of them produced any pollen whatsoever. And the way I do things I I don't
really have a fallback a lot of the times. And so if it fails I just have to chop a whole room down
and start over again. And that's just the price of doing business. But it old Betsy not reversing
kind of made me sad because she's one of my favorite old girls. You know. Yeah. And you know
there's some there's some lines you know. There's a lot of there's a lot of people that have tried
to reverse various diesel and sour cuts. They're notorious for not giving you commercial viable
amounts of pollen to produce a bunch of miserable people have been having really great results with
some of Caleb's T.K. crosses. But you know Caleb can speak to this. But I think he failed two or
three times. Three times. Yeah. Yeah. Three times. And then when he did even have success it was
probably like a fifth of the success that he would normally have on a good reversal. Yeah.
You know so there's there's a lot of that like there's there's there's failure. A lot of a lot
of breeding failure used to be you breed something and then the progeny the children don't give you
what you were hoping for. Yeah. But in feminized breeding there's a lot of actual failure to
fertilize. Right. You know that goes on even by extremely experienced people that do it all the
time and for a living and have real good techniques down and have done it a bunch and had a lot of
success. You know I'd like to add to though that when breeding feminized you tend to have a better
idea of and in general kind of more consistent better results with your feminized you know
progeny than like a normal a normal breeding where you know you can observe certain things
about a male plant. You really can't see what it's going to pass forward whereas with the fems
you you know your girl on the left you know your girl on the right. You know it does tend to kind
of give you a little bit better of a idea of what you're going to get you know on that F1 hybrid.
You know. Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. I mean so like if you were to talk to breeders say that we've
been talking about you know in the last few podcasts in the 80s and touch on the 90s and stuff.
I think most of them would tell you that the most important the most important plants they had in
their rooms were the consistent males. Yeah. Like once you found a consistent male back then
you tended to cross it to everything because you were so stoked. I mean a recent example would be
you know Matt found a really good blue bonnet male. Yeah. And he was really happy with it and
he was really happy with the with the traits that it passed on to the progeny. And because males are
so much harder to find ones that pass the traits you want they tend to get used over and over again.
It's really hard to move on sometimes. It gets really hard to move on. And so you know you have
you can look at some of these old seed banks like you know Neville's stuff or some stuff in the 90s
and you know they have a they have a handful of males. Really a handful. And they use those
handful of males with everything. Right. Because you know failure you know failure and means that
like you get something that the customer doesn't want and that just ends up being a big Ziploc in
your fridge. Yeah. You know you know or you you test something out and you feel like it's got
too many herms and it might affect your reputation even though you think it's good weed and you don't
want to deal with all the complaints out there. And it ends up being a big Ziploc in your fridge.
You know maybe it'll be a project you want to use later. Maybe it won't. And so you know one of the
big aspects of this that we want to chat about is that you know the term breeder is used loosely.
And this isn't to diss anyone but it encompasses basically anybody that wants to cross and make
seeds. And you know there's some people you know there's not very many of them but both Caleb and
Matt are two of them that they are actually they actually do what I consider to be traditional
breeding in the sense that they take plants that they found from previous breedings and they use
them in further work. Right. There's a lot. There's a you know and everybody listening right now
you can have the power to affect breeding right because the breeding game right now is crossing a
lot of hybrids together and releasing them to the public with absolutely no work. So a lot of breeders
are crossing famous things to it to each other. They're giving them a sexy name and some good
packaging and they're releasing them and they're not actually popping them themselves. OK. And
they're not doing any further work which is fine. But then what happens is is that when you take
somebody like like you know Caleb who runs a bunch of his own work he gets to see what varieties in
my collection breed well and which ones don't which ones throw traits that I like and which
ones are all over the place and crazy. And that knowledge informs the next steps you want to make.
A lot. You know. So for instance you know Caleb has a plant they call T1000. Right. Which is you
know it's a named cut from from one of his lines. I believe it's Urkel and TK correct. Yep. Triangle
Kush times purple Urkel. Triangle Kush times purple Urkel. And he you know it was found in
hunts of that line. And you know I saw on his Instagram and he's told me and stuff you know
he's reversed that. He's taken that cut and he's used it in further work. That was one of my that
was my one of my buddy Tiger Farm selection from you know up there in Portland. Sure. Yeah from my
work. Yeah. So you know sometimes sometimes it's stuff you find in your own work. Sometimes it's
stuff your buddies find in your work. But you know he Caleb liked that one enough that he's now
doing further work within his own lines. And so the most effective and the cheapest and the most
profitable way to grow seeds right now sadly is to make the cross give it a name give it some cool
packaging and sell it and never do any further work yourself. That's a pretty profitable path.
The other path which is you test and you grow rooms full of your own stuff and you try to look
for traits amongst that stuff that you want to keep working with. That's a lot more sustainable
breeding because it gives you the ability to you know do multi-stage breeding which is real. What
real breeding is really. But it's time consuming and it's costly and it takes a while. Expensive.
And you actually done indoor. Yeah. And you have to have a goal in mind. Right. You know
and in that regard. And so you know I don't know if he's I don't know. I don't know if you're
are you selling. You're probably selling the T1000 hybrids now aren't you. Oh yeah. Oh yeah.
You made them a while ago. Yeah. And so you know he's got you know how many breeders out there
are doing two or three or four step processes. Yeah. Not a lot. Yeah. No. But that's real
breeding. You look at dog breeders or you look at fish breeders or you look at corn or anything
else and you know the idea that you just make hybrids and sell them and never try to like
advance in any way is not normal in breeding. Most breeding has goals. Yeah. Some of my favorite
projects you know that I'm working on now are the S2 projects where you know I've you know grown out
a hundred plus you know plants of you know my S1s and made selections from those and now I'm doing
S2s. I'm doing back crosses to the moms. I'm making hybrids between you know S2s of the various
you know you know S1s like you know taking the Urkel S1 cross it to the you know Triangle Kush
or Chemdog S1 and you know kind of making new versions of those same hybrids that I did with
the original parent cuts. But you know they're going to be unique and hopefully a lot more
you know stable and uniform you know versus the previous generation. Yeah. There's a lot of work
you know going into all that. Yeah. No shit. And so we could you know maybe one thing we could talk
about and these are these are also observations from Caleb but he's ran out a bunch of you know
Chem 91 S1s and you know we all think that it already is an S1 and what leads us to think that
is the lack of variability in the line. Right. It passes potency. It passes looks that look very
similar to it or there's a small range in there. And so you kind of you kind of get what you get
with that. Right. But then he's also done a thing and I got to go up and see it where he's
reversed you know Mendo P and he's grown out a bunch of Mendo P S1s and that has so much
diversity in it that you know he's made comments to me in the past where you could give out seeds
S1s of Mendo perps to various different people and they could make their own selections and the
lines would be extremely different from one another because there's so much variation in there.
Yeah. You know and then maybe we should make a comment about S1s because there's so many
clone only elites and there's not there's not lines available of many of these things anymore.
Most of the stuff that we hold in our collections you only have one cutting of that line.
You don't have any sisters of it and you don't have any boys of it. You don't have any way to
look within the line. And so one of the benefits of doing S1s with that kind of thing is it's
really the only way to look within the genetic without another genetics you know genes coming
in there and altering it. Right. So you know so that's why we didn't know how narrow the Chem 91
gene pool was until he S1ed it and grew out a few hundred of them and we saw that it was narrow.
You don't know how wide Mendo purple was until you did that and grew out a bunch of them and
you were like oh my god there's a lot of different stuff in here. And so S1s give people selfing
gives people an ability to look through a line when they only have one example one female example
of the line itself. And so it's one of the ways that modern breeders get to save and preserve
old lines like a lot of famous stuff that Caleb has run recently like Mendo purple or Snow or
Trinity or Chem 91 or you know Urkel or you go down the list and if you don't S1 it
it's really hard to see what's in it by itself. You can outcross it to other things and you can
see what traits that are dominant that pass to the children and out crosses. But if you really
want to look within a line most seed lines today you know most clone onlys are that they're clone
only. That's all you get. So and so a lot of these cuts well sorry to interrupt out of these cuts for
selfing you know they're all cuts that are you know as you well know you know Mendo purpse is over
you know you sprouted that seed over 20 years ago you know. And a lot of these cuts are 30 40 years
old. So if we don't you know stash away some S1 seed in that fridge you know before it's too late
before those cuts you know disappear yeah we'll lose those genetics. On that tangent are you going
to do redo the the the old bets here? Are we going to make another attempt at it? I want to see
real old bull rider stock pulled out of those S1s. My problem is is I don't I have I only have
rooms that are three four and six so you know it's hard doing some of these.
I wish I had like some single light rooms to do these things. Right yeah. You know because then
it wouldn't be so much of an expense to you know. Yeah yeah every time every time it fails yeah for
sure. And that might be that might be something good to talk about is that it's pretty amazing
how much cool stuff we have to work with these days. Considering like most most normal breeders
from other walks of life would laugh at the limited selection pool we pull from.
How many plants how many plants we get to run to make the next generation selections.
You know prohibition and things like that have made a lot of breeding happen especially in
America inside. So inside means you have electricity you have a lot of lights you have
the cost money it's time all this different stuff. And so most breeders have a million ideas in their
head. The ones that are passionate about it and their ability to realize those ideas is quite
limited. You know you might have a fridge full of of ideas and passion projects and whatever.
But right now most breeders you know you have to sell enough stuff while you're doing your passion
to fund the passion part. Right right. So for instance you know when I was doing a lot of
breeding in the late 90s and early 2000s it was a terrible financial decision because I wasn't
selling any seed. I was just giving it away to friends and it was just for my personal.
And back then cannabis was super expensive. Well at least other people made money off your shit.
Yeah well but whatever but that's fine. But it's just a matter of it's just a matter of like most
people back then weren't willing to take a four lighter when you could get you know when weed was
forty five hundred a pound or something. Yeah. And instead of getting six or eight pounds of
sellable cannabis out of that four lighter to get thousands of seeds that you you know you know
didn't even have an outlet for you know. And that's another thing that we should talk about
too for a second is the fact that most seed breeding in America did not have an American
outlet to be able to get it to the public. Right. So there was a lot of private breeding going on
and there was a lot of like you know there was some passion going on and different things like
that. But the public's asset access to it was tiny. Yeah. The 90s and the early 2000s which
is when I did most of my stuff. I don't think there was American small American seed companies
that were getting it out. You would you would have to make them here send them over to Europe
and then they would have to send them back to here. Yeah. That's right. So there was companies
there was companies that's why like certain Americans partnered with Europeans. Do worse
decisions I ever made in my life over there. You know lots of American breeders think that way.
I mean for instance in the 90s you know the blueberry stuff DJ short you know he partnered
with Sag Martha first and then Dutch Passion. It doesn't sound like he was very pleased with
either one of those things. But you know it at least allowed if you didn't partner with somebody
in Europe nobody had access to your stuff. The forum changed it a little bit because it at least
allowed private DMs and some and some low level trading and stuff. But even like yeah even Matt
back in the day I mean you know you would have a web address that had the Netherlands. You know
I'll comment on that real quick. Back in the day I get this question all the time. The only reason
that I have a dot NL address it wasn't because I was going to get more traffic because of it.
Obviously nobody types anything dot NL if you live in the US. But back then it was just a just one
more step to keep people from looking at me in the US. And nowadays it's irrelevant. So it's funny
when people still Americans use dot NL because they think it's some kind of special thing. But
really you know the IG era and you know the forum the forums a little bit and then Instagram and
then loosening laws and stuff. It allowed a lot of very small time private breeders to be able to
get out there. You know and there was some people back in the day 20 years ago when you know when
Caleb and Shaw and some others and I first met at some harvest parties and such. You know the
people that were Internet famous back then were like Vic High and DJ Short and you know the
you know the Brothers Grimm and the C-99 work. And they got famous because there was such a
limited pool. Right. It was like you know there was some there was a few Canadians.
There was a few Americans. It got famous on the forums. But there wasn't now it's like anybody can
you know can breed seeds in their closet or a bedroom or something and they can have an IG
handle and they can get their work out there and they can spread their work to friends and they can
test grows and people can see pictures. And so now it's become it's become a lot more common.
But 20 years ago you know the vast majority of breeders I knew in Mendo and Humboldt and stuff
were private. You had if and unless you've met them you had no way of getting access to any of
it. Like zero. You know if you were in North Carolina or Illinois or Colorado or something
like that like you weren't going to meet the people in the triangle or the people in Santa
Cruz or the people wherever. And so you know the combination of reversals and the combination of
you know Instagram and some other forms of communication really exploded the small seed
breeder. Yeah. In a way that it never happened before. And I don't know. I don't even know that
you know people would even know who CSI or Riot would be without those two innovations.
They still don't know who Riot is but it's all right.
You know we're about let's see for 50 minutes in. So if you want to start doing some questions that
are you know if you want to start answering any Caleb we could do that or if you want to talk
any more on the breeding topic we could do that. I'm okay with whatever. All right. Well I can tell
you dude that questions for you predominate the questions this week. So I'll try to do every week
to be honest. Yeah. Even even the weeks that you're not here. There's a bunch of stuff that
people want to for us to ask because they know you. So maybe you know let's see let's talk about.
Here's a basic one. What was your very first cut and what what what is one of the cuts that you
could say you hold closest to your heart amongst your current collection. Well my very first cut
was a Northern Lights from my dad and he gave me that cut in in in 94.
And I had that one all the way up until I think 2002 and then stupidly lost it.
But the closest thing to that anymore is like chem number chem dog number four. You know yeah
that stuff is very similar to the old Northern Lights I got from my dad. As far as favorites go
I always talk about it you know just just in case anybody has ever come across it. But you know
my dad also gave me around the same era this Uriah cut. And I mean that one is still one of my
favorites. And I think it might be possible to recreate something like it with like say a pine
tar kush a bit of OG kush and maybe something super super just piney lemony kind of like
OG kush. And maybe something super super just piney lemony blah blah blah even more so than OG.
I don't know but as far as what I have still I mean I love you know the Purple Indica that you
know my good buddy Fletch you know got in the early 2000s. And I'm pretty sure that cut dates
back to the 80s. Yeah you know up there up there in Portland and Washington and all that.
But that one's that one's extremely unique. But then again you know you already know I'm a fan
of the Purple so I absolutely you know love Francis's Mendo Purple. I mean not those.
And then you know you know I've had Urkel for damn near 20 years now.
And you know she's a tried and true favorite. So if I lost any of those three I'd be a little
bit upset. Yeah I'll take the next one because it's super simple. Can you please confirm the
timeline for Super Skunk? I can. It's real that one's really easy. It was released by Neville
in the final year that he owned the seed bank outright. So Super Skunk was released to the
public in the 1990 the seed bank catalog. He took a maple leaf indica which is supposedly called
Afghan tea and he crossed that to one of Sam Skunk Man's skunk lines. And he said that put
the funk back in the skunk. And it became a it had a great name. It had a great look. It became
super popular in the 90s. So Super Skunk was when people talk about oh I had you know mid 80s Super
Skunk or whatever I'm not saying that there wasn't skunk aromas out there. But the actual Super
Skunk name came about in the 1990 seed bank catalog. This one is for Caleb. It's a pretty
good question. Do you feel that males have a place in modern cannabis breeding or are reversals the
future and why? Oh I absolutely do. I've never been one of those types to rule out anything.
So I think there's a place for feminized seeds and you know feminized breeding. And I think there's
just a value as valuable a place for regular breeding. So absolutely. I mean you know I
started out doing just as much regular work as feminized work. I just didn't really capitalize
on selling you know much of the regular work because it kind of just took an aside because
you got to select out all those damn males. Yeah right. Yeah. The next question I'm actually not
going to have Caleb answer. I'm just going to make a joke about it. And it's nothing against
the it's a great question. But could Caleb please talk about interesting things he learned from any
or every line he's selfed. So you're going to have to wait for Caleb's 10 10 volume opus on every
line he's selfed because he's constantly selfing things over the last 10 years or so. And that's
such a that's a that's we could just talk for hours. There's just dozens of cuts that he's
done that to at this point. So it's a little too wide. It is a good question. But boy it really is
a novel. I will say I will say I take pictures and you know they help with mental notes on more or
less every single S1 I grow. So I think I'm headed up to about 2 million pictures strong as far as
you know the S1 pictures are going. I'll ask this one again because it got a lot of votes.
Are you going to try or continue to try to reverse the Irene Kush?
I don't know. I mean yeah when you get when you get 20 S1 seeds from half a half of a light.
That's a little rattle. And and also I don't know if people know but
the the Irene you know for half a thousand watt light produced 20 seeds. But the the the triangle
Kush that got the side pollination from that in the bed next to it produced like 750 seeds.
So the pollen was viable. It just didn't pollinate itself. Very interesting. Yeah. And that's an
interesting statement too. And that even when people get viable pollen there's some cuts out
there's some cuts out there. The Mac would be one. There's some others that Matt could talk about
that you have viable pollen and it pollinates everything around it just fine. And it doesn't
pollinate that female plant very well at all. There's some plants that have very few pistils
on them and the pistils don't seem to be doing a very good job of transferring that that pollen
grain to where it needs to go to fertilize the egg and create a seed. So there's some
interesting stuff in that. This is another really good question for Caleb and I think
it's pretty valuable. I'm interested to hear inspectors speak on growing large populations
in relatively small spaces. I mean ideally I like to do no more than 36 plants per light when I'm
growing large populations of like feminized seeds out. And you know I'll do that in a four to six
K room. So you know I'm doing 100 to 200 plants generally. It just it just gives you a better
idea of you know what's in that genetic pool. I have done like single light you know rooms where
I pack in like 80 plants you know under the one light and I flower them out you know at you know
four or six inches tall whatever. And I mean you know for for anybody limited on space I mean
that's an excellent way to go. I mean especially if you're doing them in like small six inch pots
where you know you can make selections out of that larger pool you know and then you can pull
them out and you know you know re-veg them and you know actually have you know have fairly heavily
selected stock to work with. So you know you don't have to grow your plants out in a five gallon pot
or 10 gallon pot or whatever. You don't have to grow them big to know what you want you know.
I mean if you're looking for potency, smell, flavor, you know any of the the really
main criteria you don't need just big plants. I mean if you're expecting for structure or hemp
maybe you need a little more room right. Yeah so I'll add to that. I'll add to that as well.
Caleb has a little bit different style than I do in that he grows small seed plants like that
fairly tightly packed together and just so people know when he's talking about doing 36 plants a
light that generally it's it's on like a you know one of those old tables like a four and a half by
four and a half kind of area. So it's kind of a six it's kind of a six wide you know six deep
type of scenario there. If you're I used to do it slightly differently than that. I would I would
grow out a bunch of seed. I would take cuttings from that seed. As soon as multiple cuttings had
rooted I would ditch the seed itself because I found when you were growing regular stuff the
seed energy. I didn't want to know what it did as a seed. I wanted to know what it did as a clone
because sometimes that can be different and I wanted to see its growth structure as a clone.
And what he mentioned is is that when you grow up things too big and you flower them
and all of a sudden you get 10 or 12 pounds or something and you have a lot of booth
or at or average not every not everything is a home run you know even among lines that produce
great plants there's still a lot of you know. And so then you end up with a lot of ants. So
what I would do is somewhat similar to him in that I would throw away the seed plant and then I would
pack tables with you know four to six inch tall cuts and I would flower the cut because as Caleb
just mentioned if I got a half ounce or three quarters of an ounce or an ounce off a plant
and I got to see what the cola looked like there that's all I needed you know. And you would get
enough of the turps. You'd get enough of the smell. You could you know if you have a quarter
seven to 10 grams to smoke that'll give you enough indication that you need to that you can
go back and grow some of those selections in a larger in a larger scenario grow more of them
grow them bigger see their see their because that way if you get a bunch of bunk it's only
five to 14 grams a bunk per per plant you know and you get enough and that's what you need to start
doing in order to really run through numbers in that regard and have it only take up so much space.
The other issue that happens and you know I have a different method than Caleb but it's a universal
problem is when you start growing out large numbers to test and you don't want to lose
something you end up needing to keep backups of the things you're flowering so you don't lose them.
Yeah right. There's basically two methods. You can either keep backups which is time consuming
and takes up a bunch of space in your veg or you can start pulling if you grow in pots you could
start pulling out small pots of things that you think are amazing when they're only part of the
way through flowering and then revert that's kind of a European method and kind of and start reverting
them back to veg. You know but you know it's it's a real issue because you know it's happened to
Caleb talks to me about it all the time is that you know you know I grew a room of 240 plants
and my two my three favorites two of the cuttings didn't make it by the time I realized it was my
favorite. Yeah. You know and so trying to save copies that you can go back and actually deal
with and the space involved is a real pain in the ass for lack of a better way to put it. It takes
up you know you want to do a big hunt and you want to keep that thing around that means you got a big
veg. Here's a good question and I fully agree with not so on taking cuts off of the seed plants and
growing the cut the cuttings versus the seed plants because seed plants will never give you
an accurate representation of what that clone is going to become past the seed stage. So there's
really I fully agree there's no reason to grow the seed plants themselves when you're just
selecting for future you know you know clone stock that's going to give you the best. Yeah
clones don't have a tap root. You grow a bunch of seeds they can be taller they can be lankier
they can have some more life energy in different ways in them than the clone and since you only
get one shot at the seed that's why a lot of people like back in the day would want to grow
seed outdoor because the vigor contained within a seed plant would give you could give you a larger
plant. A bigger plant than a clone. There's some famous clones my Maui cut does it the blue dream
does it green crack does it there's some famous clones that despite being clones will give you
huge plants outside. Yeah but if you went back to the 215 era five or six years ago a lot of the
big giant gardens you would see on Instagram in terms of outdoor were all seed right. But you got
an eight or nine foot tall room with you know thousand watt lights or something and all of a
sudden you got some seed energy and the thing wants to be seven feet tall and you're doing
bending and trellising and corralling of the plant and it's a huge pain in the ass you know.
So you know that's the you know Caleb actually has had a pretty good method of taking clones
off of plants when they're a couple weeks into bloom which a lot of people wouldn't do.
But in that regard it the plants kind of freak out for a while because they're into flower
but that's actually a benefit because one of the things you're trying to do when you're keeping
clones in a different room for veg is you want to keep them kind of small until you figure out
which ones are worth it. Because there might have 180 clones and like you only care about six of
them right. Yeah but you don't know which you don't know which six. So the and when they're
when they're in flower it takes you know a good month maybe even six weeks or so before they start
vegging out of it so you buy yourself some time keeping them in those flats. We actually just took
12 flats of clones this week of TK ABC F3 so yippee skippy to that. Fuck yeah. The other
thing I should mention just because Caleb's told me about it a bunch is that when you start judging
plants on growth and structure and weight and frost and all that those are good things to judge on.
But a lot of the times he finds out his favorites end up being some shitty ass run
that wasn't very impressive didn't look very good he wasn't very happy with it never thought much
of it and then you know him and his crew end up testing it which is actually the the part that
matters at the end and they're like oh man this is special. But you never would have thought it
was special growing because it just looked like a it just looked like a run it looked like it was
odd it had funkiness to it it didn't have the greatest bud structure and then of course that's
going to be like the tastiest one with the best high. And I'm a huge fan of runs.
The strength. In general you know I would say too that we could mention this because because you
know he laughed about it but really if you look at like Caleb's work with Freak Show or you look
at the ABC or you look at you know Runts and things like that like what he's really talking
about is like he's a huge fan of outliers he's a huge fan of things that are abnormal things that
pop up in a population that might be rare things that you know might not be that common but then
it popped up and you're like oh look at that little thing you know what direction could I take that
and strangely you know we should mention this too is that so I'll I'll stretch it out a little bit
but if you go into the store any vegetable you buy in the store whether it's a tomato or a zucchini
or whatever else that thing has been picked to grow because it yields well like for instance
let's take a tomato right the most important thing for a tomato for tomato growers is weight color
does the skin break does it rot in transit you know all these can you stack it in transit can
you stack it in transit does it bruise easily all these factors are huge taste and flavor and
texture are way down on the list right so the whole reason why heirloom tomatoes made a comeback
is because these things actually taste good where when people were growing things for production
okay um zucchini anything you name it they're grown because the producer it it grows well for
them right it produces a lot for the space cannabis is pretty unique in that the stuff
that becomes really popular became really popular because consumers enjoyed it no one would ever in
a million years pick any kind of og kush as a production way viney small buds doesn't hold
itself up a pain in the ass to grow a weak root system all those things would prevent you from
ever seeing it in most normal agriculture because they would eliminate it because it didn't have the
qualities needed to be put to scale right people would want every you'd get blue dream right because
it's a fast growing vigorous thing that yields a ton doesn't take that long and so cannabis is a bit
unique in that even like something like sour diesel uh sour diesel is kind of tricky to grow
well a lot of people find it finicky if you have too many bud sites on sour diesel it'll give you
a lot of feathery almost weed right um you know there's a lot that goes on with that so there's a
lot of very famous strains that have really really crappy production traits the right
the you know all kinds of things you know um you know and so you know so there's the you know matt
way earlier in the thing was talking about root structure which is not a very bred for trait
there's certain plants that you grow in the same room that some plants drink like crazy and i'll
use og kush as an example a lot of og kushes have typically weak root systems they don't grow
vigorous root systems so as a result they can only drink so fast so as a result they only grow so fast
so you know that's a consideration too is that cannabis has been i mean i'll tell you guys a
funny story really quick when skittles first came out uh skittles is notorious for growing slow
right uh caleb and i had had a mutual friend that made an ig post where he was like you know in in
october he's like i'm vegging these skittles for my next year's light depth hopefully they'll be
three hopefully they'll be three feet tall in six months right where skittles might be like
winning awards for its terps and winning awards for its extracts and everything else but try to
get the thing higher than four feet tall outside yeah it's a slow growing bushy little hedge of a
plant and so my point to that is that most of the famous strains that people like either for their
terp profile or their high wouldn't make the cut in normal agriculture because they don't have the
growth traits yeah and it's really really difficult because that's what i was that's what made me
think of it when i was joking about caleb's love for runts is that a lot of times the the freak the
mutant the one that grew short the one that was a pain in the ass to grow that was the one that
tastes amazing that's the one that will get people excited right and the one that was like five feet
tall and threw huge colas all over it and grew like a champ and barely required any work that
one ends up being a little bit more boring right and you're like man i wish i could merge those two
i swear you can talk about that for a minute caleb i i swear the biggest biggest girls at
least biggest feminized girls i grow they always seem to have a little persuasion to hang in the
balls i don't know if you notice that but the big girls yeah women say that about me all the time
i got a question for both of you that that i'll follow up with on after after i ask you guys
so hayes brothers and me and caleb actually talked about this yesterday and i think me and
me and not so talked about it a few days ago i know crybaby was a part of that hayes brothers
vintage california cush 1980s picture in high times in the 79 issue they talk of a new hybrid
known as cush uh in norcal across between hawaiian hash plant and thai specifically calling it cush
by 79 they already knew of hindu so what the fuck is this cali cush is it pure cush the picture
does look like the malibu in the article they straight up say afghani skunkweed it's been
driving me crazy for 10 years caleb anything i don't know well i can make a couple general comments
so cush is a general term right um there's a huge mountain range it's the second tallest
mountain range in the world next to the himalayas um and it runs through afghanistan and pakistan
down to the ocean and it's called the hindu cush so uh you know we talked in a previous podcast
about how names are relatively new and back in the day people talked about people named things
uh per their region of origin right o'hawken michoacan panamanian hawaiian you know various
various aspects like that they rarely had names that weren't regional so cush could literally be
anything collected from the hindu cush mountains and the hindu cush mountains could be as low as
one or two thousand feet above sea level and as high as five six seven eight thousand
above sea level in some of these big valleys so you know and then secondly to that and what people
what he's probably really asking is that there are there are a few plants um that popped up
and became famous uh everybody mostly knows the story but if they don't um there's a there's a
baba cush line um and there's a cush line that has various origin stories but um is most likely
a mix of northern californian and european genetics that popped up in florida came to la
became a craze people got extreme amounts of money for it and then it became very popular
and so what most people today know is cush you could classify as tk or ghost or that's what most
people know because that's what became popular that's what's been traded on forums and traded
on ig and everybody else and bought in clubs and so that's what most people today know know of as
cush but that's a lot narrower of a gene pool than shit that came from the hindu cush yeah well right
so you go all the way back to hindu you go back all the way back to 1979 and you have matt and i
might do a short about this soon about the hippie hashish trail but you have some you have some
euros or you have some americans come back from india nepal cashmere um you know uh pakistan or
afghanistan and they bring seeds back to their buddy and they're from cush so what what date was
was the article from again 79 79 issue they talked of a new hybrid known as cush okay well you know
remember i was telling you how um they they were hating on humble back back back in the 70s i think
it was i think it was probably that same issue they were all bitter you know that humboldt's all
popular because of their indica's or their cush's right yeah and you know they they were upset that
their hazes you know were getting downplayed well you know like we've talked plenty of times back in
78 you know that was that was roughly the year that pretty much it seems like everybody around
you know um trinity all that had you know were growing uh purple cush there was a huge influx
you know of of purple cush seed you know and obviously just like not so was talking about
that's that's just hindu cush seed and the purple of course the the purple fino
or purple genotype of that so i'm i'm almost wondering if they didn't just get a hold of some
some of that seed and incorporate it into their hazes to kind of you know up their market value
yeah it is very possible and one thing i could add to that is that in modern breeding today
that same thing holds true which is a cut becomes famous and everybody breeds that cut into
everything right right right so in the last 15 years um the amount of people that have used cherry
pie girl scout cookies five or eight different cush cuts skittles you so you name it if it became
famous and desirable people would blend it into everything and so one of the things you know you
see people out there that are like pumping up their various hybrids and you know some of the
stuff you see caleb do that people might be like oh why the hell is he working with abc that looks
weird oh that's funky freak show is fucked up too why the fuck you messing around with that i don't
get it some of it is like honestly with the amount of work that's been done with cherry pie and
cookies and cush what new and exciting do you think is going to pop out of that that someone
hasn't already done in the last 10 years yeah and if you take two hybrids that are mostly a mishmash
of those things all smashed up together i'm not dissing crossing kushmints with this but what are
you going to find that's not something that's already somewhat similar to a lot that's out there
it's very hard to find novel and new and so people people have been every ever since the name game
came around and ever since popularity came around like caleb was just mentioning people might be
crossing these afghans to their hazes to increase its popularity right um people have been doing
that for the last forever but it's increased dramatically in the last 20 years where it's like
you know uh there was uh i mean this is a funny example but there's no kush in blackberry kush
right in the sense that kush for the most part like the reason why people added kush to blackberry
kush was because people wanted to buy kush you know sour gets added to a lot of names or diesel
gets added to a lot of names or names get changed because there's a desire to sell certain things
and then the desire to feed that market either makes a lot of breeding happen around a few select
cuts and you're trying to get a hybrid that you can call you know um there's a famous there's a
there's a good cut up here called dox ogee and i would say that it's it's not the greatest cut
it doesn't have very much uh ogee flavor it doesn't have very much in the way of uh you know
the the high that i like but it looks like a traditional kush um and it yields like crazy
and so then people are going to grow it because it produces well and they can call it kush oh
i'm looking for kush oh well i have a ton of kush here buy this dox kush right and that
after we're doing this yeah i think yeah and so i you know and i'm not even trying to diss them or
anything like that that's not the point the point is that is that you know uh these names get added
on to things because as long as it's desirable and easy to buy for instance um you know uh
caleb has become pretty famous with his urkel crosses in 04050607 i would say that you know
eventually there was probably literally thousands of growers in mendo and humble that had lavender
urkel grape ape uh you know you name it half a dozen of these different cuts to meet the purple
craze and then as the purple craze phased into the sour craze and the kush craze and the cookie craze
and the skittles craze it ends up like there's like six dudes that held on to the the urkel
yeah right but 15 years ago how many people did you know in humble that had some kind of urkel
right a lot everybody because it was everybody because it was popular and a lot of buyers
wanted it which means lots of people that produced had it and as soon as the market shifted
so did the holding of the cut and before that before that it was salmon creek big bud and train
wreck and snow and stuff like that yeah sure and so that's the thing right is that what happens is
and this is sort of the thing is that when things are popular everybody has it and everybody wants
it and people want it from their friend and as soon as it becomes unpopular the percentage of
people that are willing to hold on to old cuts when there's no financial value to it becomes tiny
right and you know uh then you have a bunch of people you know now we have a bunch of stuff going
on in the community where most people there's legendary strains that very few people relative
to today have actually seen or smoked and so fakes proliferate because they get passed around
and maybe the person passing it around doesn't even realize it's a fake because he never had it
in 1998 so he doesn't know right you know and so he's passing it around he's like oh i think i have
real snow i'm gonna trade you this but he doesn't have any snow i thought that was real i thought
that was real snow it was given to me by my buddy who's had it for forever and he swears it's real
snow and then you talk to somebody like me or caleb or whoever who actually grew snow back then
or you know someone who are kale who's held it for a long time and they're like i'm sorry
but that's not it yeah that was a snow is a bad example i've never seen a fake cut of snow
but i mean yeah it might it might have been a bad example but like maybe maybe the trinity would be
a better example or something that is an excellent example yeah that might be an act because people
will get mad at me because they would give me their trinity and they'd be like oh man i gave
up the farm for this cut right and then i'd smoke it and i'd be like it's not even a hybrid of it
it's it's not it like what do you mean i i like i you don't know what i did to get it i'm like dude
i'm sorry it's it's not it you know and and so there's there's some cuts where it's like i mean
one of the things i have no idea what sour cut i hold um but if i lost it i've collected six or
seven or eight different sour cuts in the last four or five years and none of them are the are
the cut that i have yeah which means that like if i lost it me trying to find it again would be and
would be would be shitty it'd be hard right and so that that's what happens to a lot of old cuts
then you get arguments about whether it's real or whether it's not real um and there's a group
of collectors uh you know there's three of them on this call right now but there's not that many
people that are willing to hold on i have a joke of give me your old and unpopular yeah right
because you know having a big mom room is a huge pain in the ass it's a lot of money it's a lot of
time it's a lot of cloning it's a lot of trying to keep plants healthy and bug free it's a lot
of and then you know 98 of it isn't commercially viable you're holding on to it for preservation
you're holding on to it for maybe some future breeding you're holding on to it because most
of the stuff that i hold i hold it because i personally like it that's the determining factor
i don't care what the public thinks but most people you know it's they don't have the time
they don't have the space they don't have the will uh or they just want to hold what's currently
popular because that's what works for them and they think oh i don't know this is this is how
everything gets lost right i can always get it back from my buddy he's got it that's the story
before we get way too far from the question of the california kush so um i was actually given
the seed that's way far from this yeah we were way far i apologize to whoever's question it was
we got real far afield there for a minute that's what we do um that's what you do when you're a
fucking nerd you nerd out but uh yeah no i was given seeds by a guy that was on the forums named
walking man a lot of people that were around back in the day knew him um i i i sat on these things
for a long time and they were labeled hayes brothers california kush and the reason i sat on
them because i was like what the fuck is it california hayes brothers they're fucking hayes
you know so i sat on them for a long time until i came across a high times issue that i have and i
was going through it and i see hayes brothers california kush and i'm like what the it you
know and by this time walking ends uh walking dudes dead you know so i'm trying to figure out
you know what are in these things so i did pop them i did run them and i would say the closest
thing they look to is what i would associate having grown with hindu kush before um they're
stretchier they're not like og the buds the buds are dense they're smaller more golf ball more
spread out it's stretchier that is where the og connection probably ends with the california kush
that i have grown now are they the original ones from the hayes brothers who knows that's what they
were labeled but we did f gen those and let them out just in case there you go so yeah you now you
need to grow them so you can answer the question is it not oh all right oh my gosh so uh we have a
question that's pretty funny is uh caleb why when are you going to come back and why did you make
everyone wait so long to come on oh man i'll answer that one for him is uh he he's real busy
you know uh he's got a lot of stuff going on part of being really a prolific breeder
is that that's a lot of work uh it's a lot of work to make seeds it's a lot of work to run
rooms and have things come down and catalog and take the what do you mention the 20 million
pictures that he has on file and answer and answer be responsive probably on his website and deal with
life and family stuff and eat oh i haven't responded on the website for about three months
apologies to everybody so it gets it gets difficult especially if you're a one-man show
and you're and you're holding on and you're trying to do a lot of actual work and you're trying to
have a life and friendships and families and different things like that uh we're really
appreciative that he gave us some time uh he's like one of our really close friends and we chat
like this all the time about things um you know and uh one of one of the one of the aspects that
matt and i are trying to do is that some of the most knowledgeable people are not great at self
promotion um you know and there's a lot of people who are really good at self promotion and not that
much great at everything else uh caleb's kind of the reverse uh he's really really good at
observation and breeding and he has a long history of plants and he's definitely a weed nerd and has
a lot of knowledge in there um but you know public speaking and making the time for this kind of
thing can be relatively hard uh you know so um you know we're super appreciative that he came on
and we're hoping that we'll be able to occasionally get him to pop back in so i would say you know uh
be thankful he's here and let's hope that he liked it and uh we'll get some other subjects that
interest them enough that he'll pop back on you know i really want to do a show with fletcher and
caleb together i think that would be pretty phenomenal i mean really maybe some bodie
oh yeah i you know i mean there's uh you know both those guys uh both those guys are in the
same vein you know they're both really knowledgeable they both have a lot of
passion for what they do they both have a lot of projects they both do a lot of hunting um
you know uh bodie would be quite interesting because you know he's done a lot of traveling
which is not common in the modern in the modern times um you know he's gone to a lot of these
regions of origin and poked around uh and so those are probably some like really cool stories
that he's got in his head he is helping us on the hippie hash trail um episode we haven't really
talked about it much but we will be doing that and boney's gonna be a major part of that so yeah
we haven't met we haven't we haven't talked about that but one of our episode ideas is to sort of
talk about the hippie hashish trail because that's the way that the vast majority of afghan
seeds actually made their way to america um i talked about in a previous episode how all the
sativas free seeds came with every kilo of bud that came to america but afghans they had hash
and hash didn't contain seeds generally speaking on rare occasions it did but for the most part no
and so we talked about it a little earlier uh but you know um in humble where caleb is from
you know and mendo and stuff like that in the central coast of california it seems like there
was afghans in the early and mid 70s but the wave where most growers that were tied into people
really started seeing them was more 77 78 79 80 that's when the waves of afghan seeds really
started hitting america and and hitting groups of growers and getting passed around um and i believe
that's mostly due to the hippie hashish trail and people's travels to the far east and so there's a
lot of interest i think in talking about that uh and we're going to have an episode upcoming
that goes way more into depth on some of that hashish and some of the traditions and some of
the travels and how that all worked and even just i mean just how difficult it was to even get over
there uh and trip around it wasn't in the 60s and 70s it was not easy uh to get to that part of the
world uh and to move around it's far it's you know it's different issues today so yeah far more
dangerous a lot more dangerous yeah we've sadly america's been at war in that part of the region
for quite some time so people's opinions of us have changed a bit and it's certainly a little
sketchier uh with the taliban and some of the other various aspects that go on in afghanistan
and pakistan but you know that region is one of the few regions as well where there's still a lot
of traditional farming going on of cannabis yeah um so it's good in the sense that it's a resource
it's sad that it's hard to get to for us but at least it's still there and there are some people
that are traveling around there that are uh starting to ship some seeds back to europe into
america from those regions and maybe people will find some cool stuff in this more recent wave of
you know heirloom kushes or heirloom afghans and stuff like that that are getting bred over there
so we'll see all right so we need to do some housekeeping uh for caleb's anybody who's
interested in grabbing caleb seeds i've seen a lot of comments about that you can find him
on speakeasy you could find him on his website and he has a lot of other retailers what's your
website caleb uh humboldtcsi.com i think there you go so if you're interested humboldtcsi.com
i know speakeasy's got a bunch of great stuff um is there anything else we wanted to get to
i don't know how long we've been talking it's pretty wide-ranging discussion hour and a half
hour and a half probably pretty good we probably are pretty good yeah i mean you know we always
as always uh matt and i will look over the questions and stuff don't feel bad there's always
too many questions uh to get to if your question didn't get answered maybe it'll get answered in
a future podcast uh maybe even it'll be the seed that starts the whole episode idea um yeah so keep
your questions coming you know and all that uh you know feedback huh we have our patreon you
can join our discord chords via patreon and we go in there chat uh i think we're doing movie night
tonight where we fucking sit and watch movies together or tv shows just dick around but we
also talk about cannabis stuff extensively i put a lot of my catalogs online and a lot of my uh
collection of historical stuff so pretty much anybody can access that it's a part of our patreon
and i'm putting up nudes of caleb in the same folder tonight oh my gosh and then two things
real quick just because i see question i see multiple questions about it um i gave my uh my
headband cut to caleb to breed with um he's already released a few lines off of it um it's it's not
very well spread out in the community yet and so since he's so prolific at breeding uh and he has
such a customer base um my main goal was to get it out there so he's done some chemd he's done some
tk uh there's you know there's potential more work that he's going to do with it as long as it
ends up being worthwhile and he likes it um and so that's that and then someone asked some questions
about mexico uh you know mexico is super close uh unfortunately uh the mexican uh the mexican
weed is controlled a lot by cartels and there's a lot of violence associated with it so it's not
so much like the 70s anymore where you can kind of go down there and like hang out with regular
farmers and maybe get seeds it's a little bit more sketch than that uh the violence has been
quite extreme for the last 10 years um and so while mexico does have a large and diverse population
of cannabis down there and we hope that uh some more of it comes our way it's not as simple as
it was decades ago to go down there despite how close it is and poke around and get access to it
you think there's anything really worth um getting in mexico anymore just with the influx of uh you
know european genetics down i hardly doubt it man cartel would have been trying to increase
production at some point you know what i mean like they're not they're not stupid that's their main
export other than myth so so that might so that might be something just real quick that we'll end
it on is that uh sadly one of the you know i i talked about how it's very difficult for
us to penetrate afghanistan and pakistan these days that might be a benefit um because it's
keeping their lines a bit more pure uh some of the european lines have infested jamaica
infected mexico morocco and some of these other regions yeah even colombia
some of these regions have been you know have you know some of these you know morocco especially
because it's close to europe you know uh they used to have a lot of traditional cannabis they
have a lot of dna they have a lot of different european seed banks got super lemon haze now
yeah stuff like that that they bring down there and breed um so there's a lot of regions of origin
that have been polluted for better for worse uh by these other things and you're not going to go
to jamaica and find some 25 week lamb's bread anymore you're not gonna it's not as easy to
find stuff in morocco it's not as easy to find stuff in mexico um that's part of the issue is
that the you know global trade has good and bad parts and in the 60s and 70s a lot of these regions
were untouched and they just had what they had from their region and now there's been a lot of
cross-contamination um and so yeah you know no one's going to morocco looking for super lemon
haze but sadly that's what they might find you know or they might find some la confidential or
whatever over there you know um and because those farmers just want to make money yeah so
um you know i think uh you know we could answer a lot more questions and we could talk for hours
but i think we're coming to a good place to close uh thank you everybody everybody that gives us a
bit of time on their friday it's always appreciated absolutely you know we're going to keep this thing
flowing we're going to try to keep topics of interest on breeding and different things like
that going so um thank you everyone oh wbd wbd hit up um speakeasy get them your address you
received a free shirt for having the most up votes on your question so yeah get a hold of them yeah
and so everyone thank you very much i hope you found it informative everybody have a great day
thank you caleb for joining us and we'll talk to you all soon everybody have a wonderful afternoon
cheers cheers
