It was like I was connected with everything around me.
All of a sudden I just started questioning everything I'd ever been told.
You know, by the time I got high that very first time,
when it started to hit me,
and I'm like, wow.
I got high.
We've been wanting to do something.
It's one of our most requested shows.
So I'm stoked to finally have you sitting here with us, Pip,
and have you interacting with me and Natso.
Everybody can hear some insight into the Ohio strains
and what you're currently doing with your career.
So let's start at the beginning.
Let's start talking about one of the clones that held your interest the most
when you first started growing.
What was circulating at the time?
When I first started growing,
I had gotten random clones from a few different people.
They weren't really anything special.
It was something orange, really low-yielding.
That's what I ran for my first several grows.
It was kind of depressing, but it was better than nothing
because it had a good smell and it was decent smoke,
at least for me at the time.
But the main ones,
I would say probably when the Lemon G and the Death Star
came into my life was when I saw the full potential
of good-quality cannabis.
It really fascinated me.
That gave me the oomph to take it to the next level
and take things seriously.
And I did.
I grew those for a long time,
for over a decade straight,
and made a living off of them.
How early into your smoking,
from the age of where you started smoking
to where you started growing,
how long did it take until you started getting
Death Star-quality type weed?
When I first started smoking,
I was probably around 13.
I got weed from this kid at school.
He stole it from his dad and sold it to me for $20.
I paid him in rolls of quarters.
I stole it from my parents' closet or something like that.
And I didn't get high.
The first time I really ever smoked weed,
I never really got a buzz.
And then,
later on,
you know,
high school came around.
We had access to the swag, basically,
the seeded, pressed Mexican stuff, right?
There's different varying levels of that.
Some were actually surprisingly good,
except it wasn't really compressed
and had the nice, mature seeds in it.
A lot of lime green stuff like that, too.
We call them the Christmas trees.
There was good stuff as well.
But,
I don't know.
I would say probably my sophomore year of high school
was when I discovered what we called at the time,
Kind Bud, KB.
It was in Akron at a college party.
One of my smoking buddies and good friends
I've known for a long time
came downstairs and showed me this.
I was out on the porch and he showed me this bud.
He's like,
look at this KB, bro.
And I'm like, what the hell is KB?
I'm looking at it.
I'm like, what the hell is this?
He's like, it's weed.
I looked at it and smelled it.
I was like, you gotta be kidding me, dude.
That's confusing going from compressed
to seeing your first actual dense bud.
Like, well-grown, manicured,
fucking christly bud.
Yeah.
At that point, I had already been selling stuff for a while.
I did through high school and stuff
just to make extra money.
I didn't come from the wealthiest family
in the world by any means.
Growing up in a situation
where every kid fend for himself
after a certain point.
I did what I had to do
to survive and make money.
That's what I did for a while.
Then eventually,
senior year, I grew some plants.
I grew my first plants
outside my parents' backyard
way in the back.
I planted them late.
They weren't going to finish in time and I knew it.
I dug them out of the ground
and put them in pots
and brought them inside
and put them in my closet to finish out
the last three weeks or whatever they needed.
I lined the whole closet with tin foil,
black light,
black lights in there.
You know what I mean.
Looking back, it's just hilarious.
I was worried I was going to get caught.
My mom wasn't super mean,
but she would whoop my ass probably,
I thought at least,
if she found them.
I had harvested it eventually.
Then months later,
maybe a year later,
she told me that while I was at school,
she was watering it because it was about to die
that whole time, but she never told me.
My mom was a gardener too.
I grew up growing all kinds of flowers
and planting gardens at our house
and other people's houses.
I got a little bit of a green thumb
before the whole cannabis thing.
I understood how things work
and how to water and how to feed
and what a healthy plant looks like
and what a sick plant looks like
and all that kinds of stuff,
how to prune them.
I never heard that story about your mom.
That's funny.
Bless her heart.
She's a sweet lady.
She's been put through hell over her lifetime.
I can't even picture my grandma being like,
oh, I'll just take care of the thing.
You know what I mean?
That's pretty cool.
That's pretty rad.
I would say, what was it?
Probably right after high school
is really when I started growing pretty good.
Probably three, four years after that,
I'd say 2005, 2006, 2007-ish,
right around those years,
I started getting a lot of really good genetics.
I moved up to Akron.
I met a friend of mine
who is still a really good friend of mine.
We know each other for a really long time.
He's a good guy.
He shared a lot of really nice clones with me.
He shared the Bubba Kush.
He shared the Lemon Chi,
the Afghani Mango,
the Death Star, the Sour Diesel.
Those were the main ones.
We've had different things over the years.
This is very early at that time
to be getting clones like that too.
For people listening that aren't aware,
this is actually pretty early
to be having access to stuff like that
in random circles.
That's a good connect.
The Indiana Bubble Gum was around at that time.
One of the very first ones I ever got
is one that 99.9% of the people listening
aren't going to know what it is,
unless you're local, but it was called Wanaki.
Some people say Hunaki.
It was pretty frequent early 2000s
around this area being sold.
A lot of people around here remember it.
That's one I've had in my collection
since probably 2005.
What's that one like?
It's kind of like Jack.
Oh, really?
Yeah. I've done a lot of research.
I don't know what it is.
I feel like it could be like J1 maybe.
I don't know.
A lot of the big Asian crews around this area
ran that.
It was a big one and it was everywhere.
This was back in the day.
It was for a short period of two or three years
that I remember our group getting it consistently.
That was one of the first ones I got.
Was that a tea-leaf queen?
Yeah.
It's tea-leaf, but it's got that funkiness,
that funk kind of thing in it.
That's interesting.
It's a beautiful plant.
Those kinds of plants aren't my favorite to smoke.
I don't like the terpenolene stuff.
I keep it because I've had it for so long.
I do enjoy the aromas that come from those plants.
I enjoy looking at the flowers.
I enjoy looking at them and growing them
and seeing the different colors.
I keep it around.
I throw it in the flower room once every couple years
and do a nice one of it.
Hand it out to friends or something.
If you're a sativa person,
you like that kind of stuff.
It's a good plant.
It's just super nostalgic
if you're from around here
and you were around in those times.
We have that.
We have the wenaki.
We called it the knock.
The knock?
We didn't want to mess around with the pronunciation.
We just called it the knock.
The knock.
That was just our friend group.
That wasn't everybody.
That was just us.
We referred to it as the knock.
That's one of the really interesting things about weed
that I like a bunch.
It seems much more so in America
than other places.
Every crew is insistent
on giving all these different strains.
They get little nicknames.
Then amongst that little crew,
it becomes what it's known by.
These different strains at different times
can take on different lives.
You only know what your friend gives it to you as.
It's like when you pass around girlfriends.
It can start off as that
and then it turns into the knock
and then it turns into this.
It's interesting
because sometimes you don't make those connections
unless you know someone that knew it by both names.
Right.
It can happen.
We definitely have seen strains
that we think it's one thing.
We'll probably talk about that a little later.
We think it's one thing
and then lo and behold, it turns out to be another.
We think it's another.
I'm originally from the Midwest too,
although I've been in California a long time now.
It's interesting how the Midwest works
in the sense that
it was much less trendy
and it was basically like,
as Pip was saying,
it's like if you got something better than Mexican,
it was better than Mexican.
There wasn't competition for it.
The desire for something better than Mexican was huge.
Any kind of kind bud you had went.
Any kind of, as we called it, dank.
We used to call it nuggets.
The reason why we called it nuggets
is because only nuggets were uncompressed.
You had the shape of a nugget.
You had the shape of the bud,
the nugget itself.
It looked like nuggets
where most other stuff was compressed.
Even if it was lightly compressed,
it still changed it.
If I can stop you.
We had some nice stuff every once in a while.
You run around nice stuff.
A lot of the homegrown stuff back then
was a little bit creamy,
a little bit moist still.
In my town,
anything better than Mexican was kind bud.
Right.
It didn't matter if it dried the right way
or cured the right way if it was creamy.
There wasn't competition for it.
There was still more people that wanted it
than there was it.
It just went.
Beasters was kind bud.
Beasters was kind bud.
Some of you guys remember that.
That stuff went for the same ticket.
It went for 50 and eight.
Some people were probably charging more.
If you knew a guy who knew a guy,
you'd get the $40 deal.
Straight up, it was 50 bucks and eight
for the same ticket.
The thing about the beasters in Canada
is the really bad beasters,
they sent to the parts of America
that they thought had no competition.
Then the parts of America they thought
had a little bit more competition
from outdoor or indoor,
they would send a different grade.
Depending on what part of the country
you're in,
sometimes there was some stuff
that was actually pretty damn good
for the time.
Then there was some stuff that you were like,
remember, they only sent their crap down here.
They wanted to impress that.
Every time we were from the Canadian beasters,
they're like, just remember,
we had good shit.
We just didn't share it with y'all.
We could chat about that later too,
but Pip and I have had some long combos
about there's certain strains he has
that he even likes them fermented.
What I mean by that is that a lot of times,
beasters, because when you think of it,
it wasn't cured that great.
It still had some moisture in it.
Then they'd seal it in a freezer,
in freezer seal meals and ship it.
It would get no air exchange
for a couple of weeks until somebody cracked it.
Some of that beasters would ferment.
I remember having conversations
with Pip about that.
He was like, man, there's a couple strains
that I actually do that intentionally to
because I like the fermentation process,
which is almost like that African cob work.
Yeah, the fermentation stuff,
it seems to me like a lot of the gassier stuff
that I run, it does it really well.
The Death Star, you cure that
at a super high humidity.
I have my notes somewhere.
I forget.
I keep it in a five-gallon bucket
with a screw top lid for 75% humidity
or something like that for a while.
Not a cold area though.
You want that warm air to get
that process going.
You want to keep it in a cold area.
It does good with a lot of the gassy stuff.
The Death Star, Death Star S1s I did it with.
It was really good.
I think Star Dog, I think I've done it with before.
Lemon G, I love the Lemon G
when it's done like that,
when it's slightly fermented like that.
I like it fresh too.
I like it both ways.
It's just, what's your preference?
It's different, just slightly different.
I remember you sent us the hash,
the fermented hash.
I'm not unfamiliar with it.
A lot of times curing happens on the stem.
If you trim stuff up quick
and it still has some moisture content going on
and you start to,
some people call it burping, all that,
that's basically like light fermentation.
If you've got fully trimmed work in a bag
or in a five-gallon bucket like he's talking about
and it's not ready to smoke yet,
you're fermenting it in a way,
in my opinion at least.
Yeah.
You can't just throw a bunch of wet weed in a bucket.
No, that's called molding.
Yeah.
You don't want to do that.
There's a fine line.
It takes you a while to figure it out
for each strain and all that
in a time frame and all that.
I just keep it in room temp
and it's done pretty good
versus in a colder area, stuff like that.
Yeah, that's a complex process.
I'd imagine a lot of failure
on the way to figuring it out.
Honestly, it was by accident really.
In my earlier years, yeah.
I just left some stuff.
It did the process by itself, I guess.
I just left it in a bag or I left it somewhere.
I would notice every time I did that,
that stuff that was a little bit more moist
and sat upstairs in a bag
after a couple months or whatever,
it was a little bit darker.
It was degrading.
It wasn't as loud,
but with the Death Star, it was sweet.
It loses its gas a little bit
and becomes sweet.
It's super smooth smoke.
It's way smoother than smoking a fresh bud
out off of a plant or something.
I remember the smoke was super,
it was thick smoke.
Yeah.
Fermented stuff, super thick, cloudy smoke.
Oh, nice.
I sent you the-
Oh, okay.
I didn't know I got the flower.
Yeah, dude, it's awesome.
I enjoy it.
It's not something I'm going to smoke all the time,
but I enjoy smoking it
and getting that sweet flavor.
I don't know.
You got to try it to understand it.
That's also something that's interesting,
I think, too,
about the era we're talking about
where information didn't exchange as fast.
A lot of times,
when I learned how I cure and stuff,
it was like you dry things
and sometimes it goes well
and sometimes it doesn't.
Then sometimes you learn things good and bad
by accident on how you treated it.
You put it up there,
you put it in a bag,
and all of a sudden it did this thing you weren't expecting.
Then you're like,
oh, well, how did I do that?
You start playing with what you did to make it do that.
Does it work with this other strain?
Nope, this strain doesn't like it at all.
But this strain,
boy, do I like what it does when it does that.
I think that's cool
because a lot of times,
one of the cool things about growing in the Midwest
is that because change was slower back home,
people grew the same strains for longer.
There was less turnover
where all of a sudden your customers were like,
oh, this is bunk, I need something new.
Oh, yeah, that doesn't happen.
Yeah.
They were just stoked to have time.
You get what's there.
That's what it is.
As a result of that,
sometimes Midwestern growers
really got to dial in certain strains
because they had a long relationship of success
by being able to grow them.
We'll talk about that soon.
Some of the stuff
that Pip has in his collection
is pretty rare nationwide
because there wasn't pressure
to move on to a new thing.
There was various clones and cuts
getting passed around locally
and they did well locally.
They had a life of their own almost.
Where in California,
popularity changes
and all of a sudden everyone dumps something
and just moves on to the next new thing.
Right.
You're exactly right.
You were telling us
Death Star and Lemon G
were the better part of a seven,
eight year run for you
in terms of success, right?
Yeah, man.
I ran them hard for at least eight years.
Then I brought new other strains in.
I was still running Lemon G and Death Star.
Over that time,
especially with Indore
where you get to do a number of rips a year,
you really get to learn
how the plant likes to grow,
how big to get it,
what size pots, how to feed,
all that type of stuff.
It's like a long-term relationship.
You really get to know your partner.
You're right.
You're so right, man.
It took me,
I'd say it probably,
to fully master Lemon G consistently,
especially on a bigger scale,
took me probably a solid four or five years
and that was at the beginning
when I started growing too.
Nowadays, it's not as difficult.
It's a finicky plant.
It's not something that you can throw in
with a bunch of other plants
and expect it to do well.
You got to give it its own environment,
its own everything.
Lemon G doesn't like a lot of light.
It doesn't like a lot of heat.
Cannabis plants in general don't,
but Lemon G especially.
I raise my lights up to do crops
and it flourishes under 25 watts per square foot.
Really, really low lighting.
That's half of what's suggested.
I believe they suggest 50, 60 watts per square foot
for flowering.
That's what I've been running for most of my life, honestly.
I like that.
I get good quality off of it
and it keeps the heat down
because I don't have to have a bunch of lights packed in.
I can put it somewhere.
That's my style.
I also think it keeps the turps.
A lot of times,
you do two hot lights
and the top foot, foot and a half of your plant
might look gorgeous,
but it might have some of the turps burned out
by the intensity.
Actually, the bottoms tend to smell and taste better.
If you can get away with less light,
more of the plant brings out some of that subtlety, I guess.
In my area, I should mention,
we've always had low ceilings,
basement ceilings in the houses around.
You've actually seen before.
A lot of people around here use 600 watters.
That's what I've used pretty much since I started.
I've used thousands before,
but 90% of what I've done has all been 600 watt lights.
Amsterdam had the same thing.
When I first started going there,
they were all foreign 600s.
They thought 1,000 watts were crazy American stuff.
Yeah.
Now that we're onto lemon gee,
let's talk a little bit, one,
about the genetics of lemon gee,
the history of lemon gee,
and the terpene profile of lemon gee.
What most people find really exceptional about lemon gee
is that flavor, smell, all that goodness.
My first introduction to it was on the forums.
There was some speculation about it being skunk misty,
something.
There's some speculation G13 hash plant expression.
What have you found out?
Well, yeah.
I've been told a lot of things over the years.
I've been married to a lot of theories,
different theories over the years,
a couple at least.
Yeah.
A lot of what you read is not the case.
Some people are close,
but I was able to get the story from a friend
of mine who worked for the lady who made it.
I'm not going to mention her name.
Sure.
She is local to the state that I'm in.
She told him that it was skunk misty
crossed with some G13.
Now the G13, this lady got as seeds from,
I believe from a friend.
I don't think she ordered them.
I don't know what they are.
I have no idea.
G13 skunk, G13 hash plant, G13 NL2.
How many G13 crosses was there?
Who knows?
This is a good buddy.
This is my really good buddy.
He wouldn't bullshit me or anything like that.
That's what she says.
That's from her mouth.
I guess what she's always said.
Just to kind of clear that up,
I don't know what the flavor of lemon G is.
I don't know exactly what year it was made.
I would assume it was probably somewhere in the early 2000s.
That's kind of what I feel.
I've never really gotten an exact date on it.
The Terp profile, how would you best describe
the flavor of G13?
Lemon G.
Lemon G.
Lemon G is very, very, very lemony.
No terpenoline or anything like that.
Do you notice any, Matt?
No.
I can't pick it up if there is any.
I taste lemon, lemon rind, and lemon.
I would say it leans lemon astringent.
It doesn't have a lot of sweetness on the back end.
It has a very pungent lemon.
Let me stop you, sir.
When you grow it like crap,
it gets that very rindy, bitter almost smell.
If you grow that plant good,
it comes out sweet sugar candy lemon G.
I'm telling you, it's a finicky plant.
Most people get rid of it because they can't get it to perform right.
They just get that basic version of it.
Like Frank, he was just talking about.
Just get that basic version.
They have a hard time with it.
Like I said, it took me several years.
Both of our faces as we both realized,
we only ever grew it like shit.
No, but I mean it.
I have a thing with citrus where there's a range there
from spraying cleaner into your mouth.
I tend to like the sweet back end
because it balances the astringent.
It's one of those things where for me,
I love citrus, but I have to have other things need.
I can't have citrus be my only weed.
Yeah.
When I describe lemon G, I always tell people
it's like a lemon came into a being form,
like a human form, and then pissed lemon into your mouth.
That's about how I can describe lemon G.
It's so lemon.
It's very unique to me.
I've seen a lot of plants and I was lucky to get that plant.
I was so lucky to get that plant early on.
I mean, I can't believe it, but it's still to this day.
It's so unique.
There's nothing that I've ever seen really
that smells like lemon G like lemon G does
that didn't come from lemon G.
It wasn't crossed to lemon G.
When you pull lemon G out and you give it to somebody
that's never smelled it before,
I don't care who you are.
Your eyes are lighting up.
You're like, what is this?
It just blows you away.
It's a good buzz.
Indoor, it's decent.
Outdoor, that plant is magical.
I love the buzz of that stuff outside.
I will only smoke lemon G if it's grown outside.
Oh, wow.
It's just so much better in my opinion.
I grew it indoor most of my life.
It's still good.
Don't get me wrong.
It's still good.
It's a light buzz.
It's happy.
It's 100% all my female customers over the years,
it's the number one requested.
For some reason, the ladies absolutely love it.
It gives them energy.
They clean on it and all that stuff.
It's been pretty popular with the females as well.
Have you tried lemon tree or lemonade yet?
I haven't.
Lemon tree smells a lot like lemon G.
I tend to think that they're related some way.
To me, it has to be a lemon G.
I assume.
It has to be, in my opinion.
Another thing I wanted to mention is my buddy mentioned
that he had smoked, my same good buddy again,
he smoked the G13.
It was a G13 skunk back in the day.
He said that's the closest thing he's ever smelled to lemon G.
It was very spot on, but it was just mild.
I thought that was an interesting thing.
I know a lot of people are going to ask about what's the skunk misty as well.
Honestly, I wish I could tell you.
They had a strain called misty back in the day, didn't they?
Nirvana or somebody?
Nirvana seeds.
People always confuse Nirvana with gypsy Nirvana whenever I say Nirvana.
Nirvana seeds had a misty.
I can't remember off the top of my head what it was.
NL something.
Basically, everything in Amsterdam then that wasn't from Neville
or a few other breeders, almost everything was something by skunk one.
Pretty much.
Having something that was misty by skunk one in the 90s,
that was the most common hybrid in Amsterdam was something by skunk one.
Right.
Skunk one was just consistent.
I actually can kind of like that.
The G13 straight cut, I can't remember what it was.
The straight cut that you had, Pip.
I can kind of see skunk and G13 in that lemon G.
Oh, yeah.
I mean, lemon G is kind of like it's kind of got that.
This is like people don't take this the wrong way,
but it kind of has that like ugliness to it.
You know, like there was an era where like we didn't have to be pretty,
you know, and lemon G definitely has kind of that like G13,
like weird bud formation, leaf formation, especially look, you know,
and then, you know, from skunk one,
some kind of citrus coming through is pretty common.
So I can see, you know, it's probably the skunk one probably took the G13
from being leafy in a mess and made it gave it that nice running cola
that probably made it such a good cropper for you for a long time.
You know, and yeah,
I saw, you know, the lemon G for the longest time.
Let me start by saying actually first,
there's a G13 clone that's gone around this area for a long time
since I was in school.
Still, my parents, my friend's parents grew it
and my other friend's parents grew it.
And eventually I got it.
And that thing is I thought for sure that is what was used for lemon G
because you can smell that in the lemon G like it's obvious.
You can smell that plant in the lemon G.
It's like, okay, these both came from the same state.
You know, they smell related.
They're probably related.
So I just always figured that's kind of what it was.
But and I don't know what that it's with that G13 plant.
I don't know if it's an airborne G13 cut from the forums or whatever.
I'm not sure.
It's just a short little stubby Afghan.
It's not really like it's nothing really.
A lot of people would prefer to smoke or grow these days.
I feel like it's more like your head stash.
Unique old school Afghani type of type of stuff.
Like a little soapy, a little like it's been a while since I smelled it.
I lost it when I went through that whole dudding scenario.
Unfortunately, I just want I've never been able to get back.
I've been looking around.
Several times, right?
Like people have given you stuff back and it turned out not to be it.
I mean, I think maybe once with the G, but the G is pretty easy to spot.
Like if you get a clone of that and it veggies up a little, even a little bit,
you know, you might even be able to tell from clone.
Like it's a really unique plant.
Oh, wow.
Short squat little Afghani.
But we can talk about that a little bit if you want.
Yeah.
I used to talk about it.
And when we were looking, he would send me pics and we would always kind of
like wonder, is it like, is it airborne?
Is it Pacific?
Is it something more ancient than that that like survived where he's at?
And I will say that like, if you look at some of the Neville's few picks that he
put up of the classic G13 clone, it kind of had that like gnarly, ancient,
Afghani, ugly look to it.
I thought it was very similar for lack for lack of a better term.
That's not just, you know, there's plenty of weed that I think is kind of ugly
that I actually love to smoke.
Can 91 the ugliest plant ever?
It's not the ugliest plant ever, but it's on earth.
No, there is definitely some haze that I find that I find attractive.
That is way more hideous.
Now, you know, you're like, oh, this thing doesn't have any crystal, doesn't
have any sugar leaf.
It's loose.
It's calyx is it's bullshit, you know?
And then, yeah, I curse.
But we're in the middle of it.
All right.
You're good.
We're after a minute in.
But maybe so that we chatted about the lemon G for a second.
Why don't we chat about the other thing you got early that you really love,
which is the Death Star?
Oh, yeah.
Which is a classic.
It has a great name and it's been consistently one of your favorites,
basically, from now to then.
It really hasn't shifted.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The Death Star is my all star.
I've loved that plant since the day I got it.
The day I smoked it, I was so happy the day I got it.
You know, I only had probably at that point like 10 or 12 plants in my
collection and it just completely.
Kick them all out of the water, you know, I like that.
That hard core like potency, like knock you down, put you into the couch type
of stuff.
And and that's the effect you get off the Death Star.
But, you know, you also get the super crazy like oniony tennis ball, like
rubber gas, like skunk, like nastiness.
Everything's there.
And you grow a killer.
People don't understand.
Like I've had shitty Death Star like where it's grown, where there's not very
much rubber at all, where it's more of the oniony, spicy back end.
And it's not very good.
But then I've had your Death Star where it just kicks its ass.
So when he's describing this, if if if it smells different than way he's
describing it, because he's grown it very, very, very well for a very long
time.
So go ahead.
Continue, please.
On the history of Death Star.
OK, I guess.
Where do I start?
I guess I'll start at Team Death Star.
Right.
Yeah.
They're from Ohio, Columbus area.
And they are the people that created the Death Star.
The Death Star is a cross of Sensi Star and Sour Diesel.
And they it was an accidental pollination, I guess.
And they had a couple of seeds and they sprouted them and they picked the Death
Star. And one of those few seeds that they sprouted was this amazing plant.
And I was so lucky I was so lucky to get it in the mid 2000s at the time when I
had only been growing for four or five years or something like that.
And I was just so.
Intrigued by this plant and how potent it was and how much yield it put out.
So I just started putting it in all my rooms, basically, that I had that I
had flowering and I just started growing it and growing it, growing it.
And it's I mean, there's people at my door pitchforks, you know, three weeks
before harvest. Like, where is it? We need it.
We need it. Like it was it was scary.
It's just it's just it flew off the shelves.
Yeah.
And I enjoyed I was smoking it all the time.
I bet.
But yeah, so that came from from them.
They got the the sour diesel cut.
They got I think came from Fish Show in Vermont back in like I forget the date.
It was like 2004.
I think Fish did like a farewell show at an airport in Vermont.
And and they picked up I don't know if they picked it up in Vermont or if
they picked it up back along the way from Vermont to Ohio.
But along that trip is when they acquired that.
And then from what I've heard of another friend of theirs went to Amsterdam
and got seeds and came back.
And I guess they were grown and a selection was made.
And that was given to Team Death Star by a friend of theirs.
And then that's how the cross got the Death Star got made.
OK.
One of the things maybe I should mention, because it's like a long term
running joke, but it ties into what Matt and Pip were just discussing,
is that, you know, it it takes probably a good
84 days. Right.
You know, I mean, it's a good time.
That's that's that's that's that's what I push it to.
Like you can pull it at 77 days.
I mean, a lot of people would pull it at 70 days.
That's where a lot of people make.
That's the point I'm going to make is that one of the differences and one of
the reasons why it might be so good from Pip versus other people is
that, you know, he was willing to actually see like how
long does this thing need to go before it hits perfection.
And what happens like this used to happen with Sour Diesel a lot in
California is that there's people that would grow it until it hit
the sweet spot. And there's people that would grow it until it
hit good enough for market.
And there's a vast difference that like say you might be able to cut
off like he was just saying, if you cut Death Star at 70, it might
fly out the door but not be as nice.
And Pip would take it an extra two weeks and it would
reach this extra level.
And I think the same thing would happen with Sour out West.
It would happen with some other cuts where it was like there was
croppers where like as soon as it had the nose and was good enough
to go, it's time to cut it.
Yeah.
Because there's a lot of people that don't like taking anything over
nine or ten weeks, you know.
And sometimes not with everything.
Sometimes you go downhill.
But with some things, if you give it that extra week or two, it
makes a huge difference.
It does.
It lets the potency and the flavor and some of the depth come out.
And, you know, so I think when Matt was talking about all this
Death Star sucks, there was probably a lot of Death Star that was
cut at 10 that needed to go 12.
I'm sure there was a lot cut at seven.
It needed to go 12 too.
The earlier you cut it, you know, the less nuance and depth it'll have.
So.
Yeah.
One thing else I wanted to add, too, is when this accidental cross
happened, I believe it actually pollinated some other plants as well.
They had the Indiana bubble gum, which was a clone I had at the time
as well.
It was popular around here.
And they had the dumpster, which is a popular one from, you know,
back in the day around here.
And I think those were both pollinated because when I was at, you
know, the festival Nelson Ledges in the mid 2000s, I was seeing
these strains called Bubble Star and Dump Star.
Yeah.
I think there was maybe one or two more that I can't recall right now,
but I definitely remember seeing a lot of the Bubble Star.
I remember the Death Star was a little bit difficult to get.
And I think the Sensi Star was a little bit difficult to get as well.
I don't think it was just like lots of it, you know.
Yeah.
Kind of like.
You mentioned dumpster.
You mentioned dumpster.
Ohioans are going to want to hear about dumpster.
Can you rep Ohio's dumpster for us?
What the hell is dumpster?
Does it smell like a dumpster?
Was it really found in a dumpster?
What's the story, bro?
Oh, that's.
I haven't heard from the horse's mouth.
I've heard a lot of things over the year and it's it's all generally
lines up, you know, things get left out over the years.
Things get added, I guess.
So take it whatever I say as is.
But supposedly it was there was a couple of guys growing together.
One of them is known as the professor.
And I was told that they basically had a falling out and they were
they were growing this plant and then they had a falling out and they
threw this whole room away into a trap.
The one guy threw the whole room away into a trash can or something.
And then the other guy went back and got the cut that they were growing
out of the dumpster and called it dumpster.
That's so stupid.
Yeah.
So, I mean, that's that's just what I've heard.
I'm not 100 percent sure.
I know there's more details.
I do have some connections and get more details on that from.
But, you know, I think what did I what did I say?
It kind of it kind of reminds me of like the there's a garlic bud pick
and never seen that.
But what is it?
Nineteen eighty nine.
Yep.
Yeah.
The seed bank.
Right.
It kind of reminds me a lot of dumpster.
It's really it's it's almost dead on that leaf and everything.
It just looks, you know, just like it.
Yeah.
So I've heard people say it's, you know, Shiva skunk, you know,
and I'll five skunk one.
I mean, there was a lot of that sold.
So, yeah, I mean, definitely possible.
I mean, the other interesting part, just real quick, before we get up
on that tangent, is that at the seed bank, Neville called this line
garlic bud.
And then when it and then when the sensei seeds sold the same line
when they bought his company, they called it Shiva Shanti.
Right.
You know, and so there could be some truth to both.
It could be, you know, Pippin, I've chatted about it does very much
look like sort of an old and else skunk type hybrid of some kind.
You know, what does it smell like?
What's the profile?
I classify it as like it's like a sweet pineapple
with like that toe jam funk.
There's like a funk in it, too.
You know, that's kind of that's kind of what I'm looking for.
That's kind of like where I lie with it.
It's it's it's good smoke.
It's decent.
It's I mean, to be honest, it's just average smoke.
It's a commercial typical like a commercial type for a lot of people
did a lot of grows of dumpster in Ohio over the years.
And oh, yeah, because it yields like crazy.
But it does get big buds.
It's a little bit prone to mold.
You got to watch out.
But overall, it's I mean, it's a staple in Ohio.
It's been around for 20 years or whatever now.
So it's a it's a good one.
There was a there was a fake one that went around Ohio.
I think Jason mentioned it in his books.
It was called Chumster with a C.A.
with a C.H. Chumster.
Yeah, I personally never saw that one, but I just figured I would mention it.
And it was mostly run in Toledo back in the day, I believe, at first.
And that's like where, like the professor and all that stuff was.
But I've also heard people say that there was a guy in Columbus.
And that's where this whole situation happened as well.
So I'm just not 100 percent sure.
But that's kind of where I'm at with the dumpster.
Cool. Yeah.
How about the Afghani mango?
And then that's another older classic.
Oh, man, the Afghani mango.
Afghani mango.
Yeah, I got that.
I got that around again around mid 2000s from my buddy.
I was one of his favorite ones.
And I remember going over to his house one day.
He was living up in Akron.
And I walk in and I smell this smell.
I'm like, man, that smells.
I mean, that is really unique.
What are you smoking?
He's like, I'm smoking Afghani mango.
And he was smoking it out of his volcano vaporizer.
Oh, nice.
So he gave me some puffs and I smoked it.
And the flavor was unbelievable.
It was just like this soft mango, a little bit of sweet for sure.
A little bit of like metallic smell.
And there as well, I feel like.
Yeah, it was just super interesting.
And then he brought me upstairs and showed me like two or three lights
in an upstairs bedroom, a little window AC or something and a fan.
And he had he had it growing up there.
And it was just such a unique looking plant.
I mean, I'd really never seen anything like it up until this point.
I was growing a lot of like kind of more like indica dominant stuff.
Whereas the Afghani mango is definitely a little bit more sativa.
It makes these long spheres that kind of like come out of the top.
And they're like aren't thick, but they fill in.
They're just like long spheres.
And I ran it for ran it for quite a while, but it could be finicky.
It does this weird thing.
It'll stunt out sometimes, like kind of like fail to start.
Yeah.
And then it also if the conditions aren't perfect, it can tend to like
harm a lot or like if one plant in the room is like by the fan constantly
getting beat up the whole time, like it could harm.
So I never really did large runs of it.
It's been a commercial Ohio strain for a long time.
Lots of people have done big, big runs of Afghan mango and pass it around
the state over the years and stuff.
But it's just it's a super unique one.
I don't know exactly what it is.
I've you know, I've seen Angel's Breath and I think I've told you before,
Matt, by Mr. Nice and Angel Heart and that and it kind of looks very
similar to that. But I know you've mentioned to me that those are
relatively recent releases within the past 10, 11 years.
Yeah. And I've had the Afghan mango for, you know, for longer than that,
obviously. So, yeah, yeah. I guess that would, you know, that would kind
of nullify it. But I don't know, 100 percent super unique plant.
It's been around Ohio for a long time.
Casey 33, maybe always an option.
Casey Mango. I'm not sure.
Oh, yeah. The Casey Brain stuff. Yeah.
You know, that's older. And I mean, it was it was grown a lot.
Because it was one of the more affordable lines.
But there was great, great stuff in it, like amazing stuff in it.
A lot of breeders ended up knocking it off later on to BC's BC mangoes
based on that one. I'll have to take a look into that.
Yeah. Yeah. It might be another direction.
Yeah. I've talked to a lot of people, you know, a lot of local people,
people in the weed game over the years.
And I always ask about Afghan mango because it's one of the ones that I
have the least information about. Yeah.
I don't know who made it. I don't know if they made it,
if they bought seeds of it from a company, when it came around.
It's definitely, you know, early to mid 2000s areas where I would put it,
put that one. We got to ask Kansa where he sourced his seeds.
See if he has any kind of. Anything on it.
We ever talked to him about it? No.
Yeah. I haven't asked him. No.
OK, so we go from the that we haven't done four way, have we?
I don't believe we have. Let's hit four way.
All right. The the four way I had,
I had originally gotten a plant back in before.
I don't know the exact date. 2014, 15, 16, somewhere around there.
Probably. I had gotten a plant from a friend of a friend
and it was called Sensi star and I grew it.
And I realized I had smoked this before, you know, but I couldn't.
It's been so long I couldn't tell, you know, like, is this a Sensi star?
I smoked or, you know, so. So I had grown it for years and I had liked it.
And I after growing it a couple of times, I really noticed a lot of similarities
to the Death Star because I've been growing Death Star for ever.
Yeah. It kind of has that like little zigzag structure.
It does. And some of the aromas in it as well, kind of kind of are very similar.
So, you know, I actually thought for a long time that it actually was
the plant that was used to make Death Star pot.
But recently I found, you know, I was wrong.
Death Star. I've grown Death Star S1s.
I've definitely seen the S1 progeny and it's pretty, pretty clear now
that they are, you know, Sensi star dominant.
So I feel like it's related. The four way, my cut, you know,
is related somehow, whether it's part of Sensi star or a component of it
was used to make Sensi star or something like that, you know?
Yeah. So that's kind of like, that's kind of where I,
where I'm at now with that. I grew that Sensi star for years.
And then eventually along the way, I had gotten plants under different names,
such as, it's, they were the same plant, but they were different names.
I got it under the name of Death Star from some people.
I got it under the name of four way from the guy I got it under the name of,
you know, all this different stuff. And every time over the years I grow it out,
I'm like, Oh my gosh, it's the same plant again. Like, why is it?
This is the one that you kept getting back as different plants.
Oh my gosh. It was crazy. So, you know, fast forward several years after that.
A couple of years ago, I was looking, I reached out to a friend,
of a friend who had a friend who said that they had the Ohio four way clone
that used to go around. So I, I, I get in contact with him.
I go over to his house and he's a super cool guy, a little bit older.
And he shows me a jar of the flower and I kinda like, you know,
saw the resemblance. I was like, almost like, this is that same plant again,
but I wasn't sure. And then he took me downstairs and he showed me the jar.
And he had like a light with like, you know, three or four plants.
And they weren't in the best shape. They had some thrips on them and stuff.
But it just wasn't the best representation. So I wasn't a hundred percent sure yet.
So, so anyway, he, you know, he gave me the cut and I brought him some stuff too,
because he's from a small circle. He doesn't have access to a bunch of stuff.
So I gave him some cool stuff to grow. And I went and, you know,
grew this thing out. And when we were talking and smoking,
his flower, when I met up with him, he told me that he's had it for 20 years.
And that one of his buddies was the guy that bought the seeds and made the
selection back in the day. And he originally said, you know,
the guy that I met, that I got the cut from said that it was from Sensi seeds,
but I had him actually contact his buddy, the guy who got him.
And he confirmed that he said he got them from Nirvana. Oh, interesting.
So yeah. So, so yeah, so I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I,
you know, Nirvana's description is slightly different from Sensi seeds,
but you know, they did a lot of work with other people's lines back in the day.
So it wouldn't be surprising to me if it was more than likely just
Sensi's work that they were using. That's probably the most, you know.
You know, and Nirvana was probably,
I probably would have bought Nirvana over Sensi during,
you know, during those early areas, that early era because Nirvana's
because Nirvana's was always like $90,
whereas Sensi's was like 240.
It was a big difference.
Oh, right.
Nirvana verifiably took various lines from Sensi
and reproed them and gave them their own names.
I mean, they famously took Neville's NL2
and called it Oasis.
That's their passion.
Oh, that's Dutch passion, yeah.
I mean, it was very common and all that.
And then one thing we probably should mention
about the Sensi star itself is that even though
it came out in 1995,
we still don't know what the heck it is.
Right.
He's been extremely reluctant to mention any parentage
as far as the guy who owns Paradise.
And you know what else I found interesting was in 95,
Sensi Seeds re-released the four-way.
I don't know what they mean by that.
But in 1995, they did.
And then a year after in 96, I believe,
was when Paradise started and released the Sensi star.
Right?
Yeah, I believe so.
That's what was actually released.
Pretty close together.
So I don't know.
I mean, you can't prove anything, but you know,
it's just, like I said, it's possible that four-way
was used or that one of the components that make up four-way
was possibly used, you know?
And that's coming through expressing.
Yeah, was Afghan tea in four-way?
It took a long time for us to figure out.
And then it was one of those things that was hiding
in plain sight where Neville wrote in his 87 update
to his catalog that he was about to release this strain
called four-way.
And it was Big Bud NL1 by Early Pearl Skunk One.
That's right.
It was Early Pearl.
Yeah.
And so it was another one of those things that like Pip
and I and others, we hunted and hunted and hunted forever
looking for any information on what actually
the makeup was.
And then it was one of those things that was just like
hiding in plain sight if you knew where to look.
And so it was honestly one of those, like the nineties
was a lot of F1s, but that was an early polyhybrid,
you know, because I believe Neville released both
of those plants that made up four-way as separate strains.
Big Bud NL1 just became the Big Bud line
and Early Pearl Skunk One, I believe got released
as Early Skunk.
Mm-hmm.
You know, so it was already lines he was playing
with separately to begin with, and then he took two
of them and combined them.
Together, yeah.
And there you go.
And so obviously as a four-way hybrid,
it could lean in different directions
and especially amongst the progeny and stuff like that.
But yeah.
So I wanted to clarify today, if you go on their website,
SunCCs labels it as Indian by Afghanistan,
by Pakistan, by Skunk One.
I don't know when this was released.
It's not in any of their nineties catalogs,
but they did use in 1987, Neville did the Senate update
for his 87 catalog, right?
And he said he was gonna have a four-way hybrid.
The next year he comes out with four and more
and that's the only year it comes out.
And then two years go by 89 and 90,
and it's not in the catalog.
And then in 91, SunCCs comes along and releases four-way
and they use the same exact description
that Neville used for his four and more.
Yeah.
For their four-way.
Same finish time, same verbiage and the description.
To a T.
All that type of stuff.
So clues like that.
And I mean, we don't know,
like there's some other famous cuts out there.
There's the Fairfax four-way
that supposedly was from the same line.
But obviously like if you get a four-way hybrid,
it could lean in a number of different directions.
One thing I wanted to pull on real quick
because I wasn't clear on it.
When you were talking about the bubble star
and some of that stuff.
Yeah.
Was that made with Death Star pollen
or was that made with pollen
from maybe like the East Coast sour diesel
that threw on some of those other plants?
It probably wouldn't be called star.
It was the Sensi star that threw.
It was the Sensi.
So the Sensi star was the dad, if you will.
Yes.
The Sensi star threw.
The Sensi star threw.
Okay.
So that's where bubble star
and some of those other hybrids you were talking about
that you would see floating around came from.
Yeah, it definitely came.
I feel like it definitely came
from that same accidental pollination
or I don't say accidental.
I've heard that they saw that the Sensi star
was kind of making pollen
and they kind of used it and sprinkled it.
Is what I've heard as well.
Who knows what happened?
But yeah, I believe it was made.
Early feminized seed used to be like,
plant gets stressed, accidental pollen flies.
And then all of a sudden you have some feminized bag seed.
Right. Long before we figured out STS
or any of these other methods
that you're using in modern times.
I don't know, Matt's smiling over there or whatever.
But yeah.
You know, for old people like me,
we used to think that that accidental pollination,
like if you use that, you were cheating
and it would probably ruin the line
because it was made not the natural way.
That was a big belief back in the day.
It was a big belief.
You're like, oh, you're gonna use some herm accident stuff.
You're gonna probably like imprint that into your seed line
and you'll never get it out and it'll be worse.
So that just goes to show how ignorant we were at the time.
We were convinced that.
You know, the other day Caleb made a post
and it drives me nuts, absolutely nuts when I see this,
but it's the typical, what I call the typical hippie response
to like a feminized seed post is like, ha, see,
like it was CSI posting about a reversal failure, right?
And they're like, ha,
because you were messing with nature is what happened there.
And then I had to point out, you know,
nature wants these plants intersex.
It's because man's intervened that they're regular seeds.
So actually, actually,
if you really wanna get technical, they're taking it back.
And it just like this really bad logical argument
that they seem to have in their heads
that herming is us being bad with plants.
We used to be very bro science.
Yeah, there used to be a lot of bro science.
And what I mean by that is just stuff
that gets passed around in smoking circles
and stuff like that.
And I mean, I've talked about it on previous shows
where we used to put our best Mexican bud
in the resin chamber, so it would gain quality.
The resin chamber.
You know, you put that nice Mexican bud
in your resin chamber and you don't smoke that one
until the end and then you pull this bud out
and you thought that was an improvement.
So there was a lot of misinformation in the 90s
and early 2000s when the internet
and sort of like, you know, facts,
it was basically just a bunch of kids
spreading what they heard from older people maybe
or reading in high times.
You know, we used to think high times
was sort of the Bible.
They are.
And then you get older and you're like,
oh man, who takes that advice?
But it was a real era in that regard.
So, you know, yeah.
So I mean, four-way, you know,
it ended up being one of your favorite plants.
It did, man.
It's just, you know, super unique, super old school.
You can tell if you've been growing a lot of plants,
you can grow it and look at it and be like,
yeah, that's definitely not from around this time period.
You know, definitely some like 90s weed,
something like that.
I wasn't really growing or smoking in the 80s,
so I didn't see a lot of that stuff.
But I've seen enough stuff from, you know,
back in the day to know when something's a little bit older
and, you know, different than cookies.
Would you say that the four-way,
the Ohio four-way is skunky at all?
Yes.
That's interesting.
Because the Fairfax four-way, like the one time when I got to
because it was super dutted when I got it,
but the one time I got to like get any hint of smell
out of it, you could smell like what direction it was going.
It was like, oh wow, this does have potential
to be as skunky as they've talked about.
It really does.
So I was wondering if the other cut does.
I don't know.
The four-way that I have is,
it's not as skunky as like the Death Star, you know?
It's not like that.
It's milder than the Death Star,
but it's got more like other stuff in it, you know?
It's like that, like, I don't know how to,
that old world, like those old world smells, you know?
Like that kind of stuff, like that ashy, spicy,
you know, skunky stuff going on in there.
Yeah, definitely.
The other one was like, had oniony in it too.
That was the other smell I could really smell
on that four-way.
But there's some stuff about that four-way,
certain things about it that remind me
of stuff you'd see from Afghan tea stuff.
So I always found that interesting based on what's in it.
I don't really see Afghan tea in it
unless Afghan tea's in Spunk One or something like that,
which is something that I'd always like to dig further into.
Yeah, I mean, it was one of those confusing things
for a really long time because Neville was one
of the only guys that just sort of laid out
what was in his stuff.
All that second wave of breeders pretty much
intentionally obscured genetics,
which were like his people like us who are a little younger,
younger than that, and historians trying to figure out
what they used.
Even 25, 30 years later, some of those people
don't wanna just come off it.
Like, what would it matter if Luke came out
and said, this is what I used to make Sensi Star in 1995?
Yeah, I don't know.
Oh my God.
Like, big secret, whoa, can't let that out.
But to this day, it's still kinda like, eh,
what's it, what is it?
As of this year, as recent as this year,
he will not say, unfortunately.
I'd love to have him on to talk about it,
but yeah, we've been getting declined.
That's been around, Robin.
And it's one of those things where for a lot of people,
if it doesn't benefit me, why would I say it?
And it's like, do I wanna say that I ripped it off
from Neville or I got it from this other person
that I never gave credit to,
or whatever the story may or may not be,
they'd prefer it to remain a mystery.
Because it's not like anyone's gonna go
and find the parents 25 years later, 30 years later,
and recreate it.
I mean, that ship has sailed.
While we're in this territory,
let's hit my personal favorite.
The one, like the bug that made me fall in love with Pips
grows, the silver pearl.
Let's talk about that girl.
Where did she come from?
The silver pearl came from a local guy
that actually got ahold of me on IG.
I think I met him.
I think we have a mutual friend as well at the time.
And I'm not gonna say either of their names,
but that's who I received it from.
Preface this saying,
our group has had this clone for a long time back in the day
and I never grew it because I was so busy
tied up with Lemon G and Death Star.
That was my show.
That was my MO.
So I didn't have time for anything else.
I already had 10 or 12 plants.
That was more than enough for me being a cropper.
So I kind of always passed on it.
I would smoke it.
My friends would have it.
They'd bring it over and they'd bring it to our little
cannabis cups that we had and stuff back in the day.
Up here in Akron.
But I never really grew it.
And then as we got older, you know how things go.
Stuff gets lost.
It's not in the circle anymore.
And I wanted to give it a rip.
So I was able to get in touch with this guy
and he had gotten it from an older gentleman
who lived down Southern Ohio, I believe.
And had it for quite a while.
And then I eventually acquired it from him.
Gave him some stuff, some seeds and I forget what else.
But it was it.
And a funny story is like a week later,
I got another plant that I was looking for.
I was looking for that G13 you were talking about earlier.
And someone gave it to me and I grew it up.
And I knew before I even flowered it, it was silver pearl.
So I got silver pearl twice in the same week from,
or basically the same week.
From different people.
From different people.
Yeah.
One thing I'll say that's interesting about that cut
is that, and not everything does this,
but that cut grown out looks amazingly
like some of the oldest pictures
of silver pearl that you can find.
I mean, you don't wanna use the word dead ringer too much
or anything like that, but boy,
visually does it look like it's just,
just walked out of the catalog and into your collection.
It really does.
It looks like if you were to look at Hips silver pearl cut
and you were to look at some of those old pictures
of silver pearl and you didn't know which was which,
you'd have a hard time telling the difference in some ways.
It really does resemble.
So that's not proof or anything like that,
but it certainly helps.
Right.
Right.
Silver pearl is just such a special plant.
It's not like a narcotic hitter.
Like I prefer, I respect all cannabis regardless
of whether I enjoy it or not.
I gave it all a chance.
I enjoy all the different aspects of it.
Even if I'm not smoking it.
But the silver pearl really grew on me.
When I first smoked it, I was kind of, I don't know,
off put by it because I wanted something hard hitting.
But after smoking it for a while and giving it a chance
and seeing what it's really about,
smoking it fresh when you wake up in the morning,
nothing in your system, you're fresh.
It's just, I mean, it's amazing.
It's really just really uplifting, motivating,
happy, bright buzz.
It's very more of like a sativa,
almost like what you would think of like a sativa, right?
But on a plant that's short and squat
and finishes in 50 days.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So it's, I call the high electric maybe.
Not in the sense that it's like giving you a rush,
but it's bright and happy to me.
Very bright and happy is the best way I can describe it.
And the scent profile, like me and Natto
describe it completely opposite.
And it's really just two different takes on it,
but it's because of how complex it is.
How would you describe it?
Oh, I have a description.
I wrote of it somewhere.
I'll try to remember some, but the basic smells are,
it's like a, it's kind of like a sweet melon.
It's got a little bit of baby poo in there.
Like that funk.
It's got the funky funk, foot funk,
I guess a little bit type thing.
It's got some like anise,
like almost like a black licorice type of thing.
So those are kind of-
Natto loves the anise.
Yeah, no, like, yeah.
I see for me when I smell it,
I smell like pink bubble gum is the first smell I smell.
And D just grew it outdoor and I smelled it
and I smelled it again.
And the first smell I smell is pink bubble gum,
but then there's like funky skunk background,
but not quite.
It's just, yeah.
It's got so much going on, Matt.
That confuses a lot of people.
A lot of people have a hard time really like nailing it
because there's just so much,
there's so much to it.
It's not like some of these,
there's just so many different,
I mean, you can sit there and smell it
for 10 minutes straight and pick out all the different.
It's just really, really unique, really awesome.
You know, short flowering indica, like I said, 50 days,
not the biggest yielder in the world.
You got to defoliate it.
You know, like leafy, throws fan leaves everywhere,
big fat indica.
But it's got a great, yeah, got a great structure.
And you don't even have to,
I don't think I've ever netted or staked
a silver pearl plant in my life,
regardless of how big it's been.
I mean, I grew up into like five gallons.
I don't go bigger than that, but you know,
they support themselves.
Like you don't even have to mess with them at all.
So good outdoor stuff.
One of the things that's interesting about it is that,
because Pip mentioned it, is that when he says baby poo,
I also get a strong baby poo smell off it.
But just to clarify, like it smells to me
like infant baby poo.
Like when all they're on is mother's milk.
Like they haven't gotten any kind of real food.
Like, because I have a number of kids or whatever.
So like, you know, I'm familiar with that era.
But there's a very different smell to baby poo
when they're one, two, three, four months old, whatever.
And all they're eating is mommy's milk, right?
Then when they get actual real food.
So it doesn't smell like some kind of like gnarly kid poop.
It smells like this weird,
it's almost like one of those things to me
where like, if it wasn't in cannabis,
you would guarantee say it doesn't smell good.
But there's like smells in cannabis that smell weird,
but you like them, but they're in weed.
And it's kind of caught that skunky, sweet, sickly,
baby poo.
And it doesn't sound,
maybe that doesn't sound too appetizing, but it really is.
Oh, I think it's a beautiful smell.
There is in the progeny, there is a little bit of mint
and I can smell a slight hint of it in the mom.
But I got some nice selections I made
that are like extremely like super minty, you know?
It was a, it really, you know,
threw me off guard, surprised me.
I also think it smells like a little bit,
some of them like a, like a Melanie, a melon kind of,
you know, it's just, I mean,
it's got a lot going on, man.
So what Silver Pearl is supposed to be,
according to Neville is NL5 female,
the famous clone crossed with a early Pearl skunk one male.
Right?
And that means Silver Pearl.
I mean, I go ahead.
And one of the things,
since we were just talking about four way,
I don't have any proof.
I don't know how many different males Neville decided to use
of early Pearl skunk one,
but it's somewhat possible
that it could have the same dad as four way.
I mean, anything's possible, man.
You know, because it's like,
it's the same mix from the same guy.
Yeah.
It's, you know, the dad is early Pearl skunk one
in both the hybrids.
Is it a different male,
but it's definitely the same line, you know?
And that early Pearl is a early girl crossed with Pollyanna.
Yeah.
And that's, you know, that's what, you know,
they used to cross.
I thought it was the NL5,
and he had NL5 skunk one male.
I had it written down like that.
Cause I wasn't able to find exactly what it is.
Yeah.
But it's the same.
We have the same genetic base coming out.
So you can go look it up.
Yeah.
It's the NL5 by early Pearl skunk one, you know?
So it's a three-way hybrid Silver Pearl.
And what's interesting is since Matt and I
have been kind of doing a deep dive
on some of the early girl, early Pearl stuff,
is you don't really realize it,
but secretly it was one of the most common things
Neville used throughout his lines.
He loved it.
He loved that early Pearl.
He loved mixing it into different stuff.
And so it doesn't really get talked about that much,
but it was one of his favorites.
And where did the early girl come from?
Northern California.
Northern California.
Yeah.
And Pollyanna was, huh?
We just recently found out that one of them,
I can't remember if it's early girl or Pollyanna.
I think it was Pollyanna.
Maybe it was early girl.
One of them is not from Rob or Sam.
And I always thought both were from Rob.
Rob.
Yeah.
There's a lot of assumptions.
So early girl, I believe is an Afghan Mexican.
And then they took that and they crossed that to Pollyanna,
which is an early Colombian by Mexican.
And that's early Pearl.
And we also learned that that sweetness
was very prevalent in the early Pearl.
And it was one of Neville's favorite things.
And he wanted to recreate it really badly later in his life
because he enjoyed-
From the Oaxacan.
He really enjoyed sort of that double Mexican Afghan blend
that was early Pearl.
And that's why it showed up
in so many different hybrids he had.
And later in life-
He started another trip.
Later in life, he was working a specific Oaxacan line.
I don't remember where he sourced it from specifically.
It was later, but he felt that that was very similar
to what he saw in the early Pearl, if I remember correctly.
And this is, there's a gentleman
that Matt and I chat with on IG.
And his family used to grow early Pearl
in the nineties for about five years
up in my neck of the woods.
And he's been kind of on the hunt to find,
he got lost in a bus sadly.
But he did say, Pip, he sent me,
not knowing that we're buddies,
he sent me this pic you had posted a number of years ago
of an early, of a silver Pearl S1.
And he goes, man, does this look like my parents' plant?
Oh boy.
He did.
He did.
So take that for what it's worth, but he go,
but there was a, yeah, he showed me this picture
and it's from you, you know, and he's like,
this one really looks like my parents' old cut
of early Pearl.
So who knows, you know?
Yeah, you never know.
It's pretty unique plant.
Once you've been around it and you've seen some progeny,
you could kind of tell, you know, what's related,
if it's related or not.
So I have no doubt that, you know, that's what he had.
And he thought that mine looked like his.
And it's also one of the rare things
that Pip doesn't take 84 days.
It doesn't take 84 days.
It's done before most of my plants
are even halfway done flowering.
Yeah, it's so fast.
55 or something like that.
It's like, I mean, you could pull it before 50
if you wanted to.
It's just, it's so quick.
I feel like I throw it in the flower room
and feed it for two weeks and then, you know.
So it's like, it's basically like a true seven weeker.
Yeah.
Oh man, it's super quick.
Yeah, super quick.
I mean, some of them go into the 50s, you know,
55 days or whatever, but some of the progeny
was done in 46, 47 days.
You could probably pull it 45 if you lived in 1990.
Like they always look cool.
You know, you see these seed descriptions
and flowering times and you're like,
oh, it's done in, you know, 60 days.
And really.
Freedom 35, bro.
I mean, I remember being.
What was the flowering time on Super Skunk?
I remember being a kid.
I think it was 49.
49, you know.
Just getting started on indoor
and seeing those 50 day strains and being like,
I could get eight crops a year.
Yeah.
There's trade offs to everything.
It was super enticing.
You know, you're just thinking, oh my gosh.
I didn't realize that it was a bit,
it was a bit of marketing back then.
Claiming everything took six or seven weeks, but you know.
And then I realized how rare it was to find something
that developed that quickly that I actually liked.
Right.
So we got through the Ode to Neville.
Let's get to Q36.
Oh boy.
Q36.
Alludium.
Q36 is a wild one.
Again, I don't have an exact date,
but it's somewhere like 2010, 11-ish.
2009 to 2011.
Somewhere in there, I would probably put it.
So it's relatively kind of like new kid
on the block out here for Ohio.
And it's, when I first got it, it was in like 2013, 14.
I don't know.
I'd have to look.
But it's, when I first got that thing,
I couldn't believe it.
I was looking at the leaves on the thing.
It looked like it was like,
came out of the Jurassic period or something.
You know, dinosaurs walking around.
So, I mean, super weird, super dark, Afghani,
like super unique leaf shape.
So I, you know, vegged it up and I flowered it out.
And it's definitely, I could tell immediately,
it was definitely related to Bubba,
but it's not like anything that I've seen
crossed with Bubba before.
I don't, they say the lineage is,
it's basically Bubba Kush crossed with Hawaiian Indica.
And there was some work done in that line.
They had bred that line together a second time.
The F2s or the BX2s or whatever they did,
they had a plant called the nuc that went around for a while
and it was decent,
but eventually that kind of got thrown to the side
once they used the nuc to make the next generation
that, you know, the Q36 came from ultimately.
And that thing just blew everything out of the water.
So that nuc, everybody kind of like threw that
to the wayside and just focused on the Q36.
So it's like a Bubba, like a Bubba Kush,
but it's like cream, like super creamy Bubba.
It doesn't have like typical Bubba leaves.
It's got these short little, like,
almost like clover or I don't know how to describe it.
They're just very unique.
I have pictures on my Instagram page if you wanna look.
The resin, it just pumps out resin.
I mean, it almost looks like one of these hype strains
that you see now, it's just so caked up in resin.
The smaller plants don't tend to yield too well,
but when I put them in like three gallons or five gallons
and got them nice and vegged up,
they do pretty good yielding.
It smells like creamy Bubba and anise like that.
Again, like a black licorice type,
like thing in there as well.
And it's a low tester, it tests at like 15%.
I think my buddies, some people have had it tested
a little bit higher, but generally test below 20%.
But it is very, just like Bubba, very medical,
very good effect.
It's definitely smokes like it's over 20%.
The flavor's phenomenal, like I said, creamy Bubba.
Like if you're a Bubba lover, like this one is the,
this is the ultimate.
It's like primo Bubba.
Pip has shared it in our little tight circle of friends.
And I would say almost universally,
everyone regards it almost as an improved Bubba.
Yeah.
You know, like better, maybe even better than Bubba
would be a way to describe it.
Like, you know, like everything they like
about Bubba and more.
Right, that's it.
Yeah, that's how I would say it.
And more.
And more, everything you like about Bubba and more.
Bubba kinda, if you don't hit it right,
it doesn't really turn out well, doesn't yield well,
it's a little bit leafy and it can come out a little bit
like soapy sometimes I feel like.
So this plant, there's none of that.
I mean, even if you run it bad, it's not coming out soapy,
it's not coming out crappy.
Like it's still gonna do good.
So it's definitely like an improvement.
I mean, I wouldn't call it a Bubba cut, right?
But it's definitely like a newer age version
of like Bubba Kush that's the fire.
Yeah.
Improved version of the Bubba, so.
The only reason why I say that is because most people
that really love to grow Bubba for their head
end up growing Q36 for their head
and being totally happy with that plant
and not having to grow Bubba for their head
because they get everything they like about Bubba.
Right.
And a little bit more from it.
So that's pretty high praise, really.
And just to clarify, a lot of people get confused.
The Illudium is the Q36.
It's the Illudium Q36 Space Modulator.
It's the gun that Marvin the Martian used to use
on the cartoon.
So that's the full name is, you know,
Illudium Q36 Space Modulator.
There you go.
There you go.
And what was it?
There was a weird breeding trait that I had
where something about seed making, how it makes seeds.
Yeah, it doesn't make seeds.
I've tried to seed the thing numerous times
and the same thing happens.
I get, you know, 20, maybe if I'm lucky,
30, 40 seeds out of each pound.
30% of them are premature, fully like big seeds,
but just white and hollow.
And then the other ones, some are mutated
and then you sprout what you have left from that,
you know, whatever 10 or 12 seeds you get out of that,
15 maybe, and you sprout them.
And then some are like mutant, like super mutant.
There's like maybe 25, 30% of them from what I've seen
have been like mutant or runty or slow, you know.
And then a small percentage of them though
are really nice.
I bet.
So it's a lot, it's a tough pill to swallow
when you try to pollinate a plant
and you gotta rip apart a pound of weed
to get, you know, 10 or 15 seeds that you can grow.
And then only a quarter of those
are gonna be something decent
and only a percentage of those
are gonna be something amazing.
Yeah, by the time you were done slicing and dicing
how much came out, I was thinking to myself,
so he gets five seeds he likes.
I did cross it to the silver pearl
and I grew those seeds and I did find an awesome selection,
a really, really awesome selection
and it kind of made it worth it for me.
I posted it on my Instagram page.
It's-
Does it make seeds?
Extremely resinous.
Yeah.
Yeah, it does.
So it's extremely resinous.
Maybe even more so than the Q36.
It's just absolutely caked on there.
I'll get that picture over to you as well, Matt.
Yeah, yeah.
But I made two selections.
They're both very nice.
One is just super unique.
It kind of has the, I like that,
that like black licorice, like anise
or I don't know how you pronounce it,
but I like that in stuff and I like it in the Q36
and one of the selections I made has,
it's kind of like a lot of that
and less of like the other aspects.
It's kind of like focused in onto it
and it's not like the most ideal plant.
It's not a huge yielder.
It's kind of wiry, but it's got good flower
and it's got that flavor and that smell
and that taste that I like, so I keep it around.
I don't think a lot of people understand that too
when it comes to reversals,
is that because there's other things you've done too,
like with your East Coast Sour Diesel Cut reversing it,
where like it works, but it doesn't really give you
enough seed that you can like even share it with friends.
It's almost like it gives you 15 or 30 or 40 seeds
or something so you can't even make packs.
Yeah, you can't make packs of it.
It's like even difficult to share with homies
because you get so few and it took so much effort to do.
So there's just certain varieties out there
that for whatever reason don't reverse well
or don't take seed, don't take pollination well,
and it makes it really hard to make hybrids with them.
Now, speaking of hybrid making,
let's get into where you're at now.
Where you're at currently as of the time
this podcast is gonna air.
Where I'm at in my seed making?
Yeah.
Well, I am at the point where I have already
made the Rubber City and I did a rigorous selection process
trying to narrow down what I feel like
were the best plants out of that run.
Yeah.
And I've grown them and cropped them
and just done everything I could to really like
make sure they're what I want, what I wanna use.
And then I have, the one is the 10,
the Rubber City number 10,
and the other one is the Rubber City number four.
So maybe before you go any further,
just talk for a second about what made the Rubber City.
Okay, yeah, that sounds good.
And we'll go forward from there.
Yeah, the Rubber City was the sour diesel
reversed onto the Sensi Star at the time,
but the four-way now.
And that's what I created the original Rubber City with.
So then you hunted that a bunch.
So I grew out probably right around 50 seeds.
I can't remember the exact number.
I grew out about 50 seeds of it.
And these are all females that you're growing?
All females, yeah, all females.
So big selection.
And they are, it was just absolutely beautiful.
I couldn't have asked for better results.
I ended up cloning about half the run for backups
just because everything was looking so good
halfway through.
I usually take my clones off the flowering plants,
you know, a small branch or something like that,
just so that they aren't constantly growing.
They're just revegging in a stasis mode for a while
until everything's finished.
Yeah, when you keep a lot of moms, you kind of have to.
Right.
You have to figure out these little tactics
to not have things outgrow each other
and keep things in a stasis
while being healthy at the same time.
Yeah. Right.
So I definitely selected about half of them.
And then I did another run immediately
after the seed run was done,
just to double check because some people may not notice this
but seed plants versus clone plants
of the same exact copy of the genetic
is can drastically differ.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, maybe not drastically, but they can differ.
Yeah, they can differ a lot.
A good amount, you know, like seed plants
usually tend to be more vigorous and yield more.
And you know, do you guys agree with that?
Oh yeah, and Hermes yield too.
100%.
Right, right, right.
Yeah.
So I grew out a bunch of those.
I made selections to half of them.
And then I did about probably four, maybe five rounds
over the course of like a year and a half
of narrowing it down.
I would just grow, you know, each grow
I would narrow it down from like, you know,
half of them to 20, to 15, to 10.
And like, once I got to like,
I remember getting to like eight of them
that I had to choose between, it was just like,
they were all so good that they all would have been good.
You know, I had to like nitpick.
Like this one, this one structure is a little bit floppier
than this one, but they're all still fire, you know?
Yeah.
Super good.
So I just kind of split in hairs.
There you go.
Yeah, I was split in hairs.
So, but eventually I had, I had narrowed it down
after several different runs to the Rubber City number 10
and the Rubber City number four.
Go figure, I would find two of my best selections
in the first 10 seeds, huh?
Yeah, right, right.
Out of the first, I popped 15
and the number 20 was banging.
So everybody knows he resisted the urge
to name it Rubber City 189.
He didn't have a plan.
His effort to make it seem like that, you know?
So props on that one.
Yeah, I mean, it is what it is.
I mean, I'm not concerned with numbers.
You know, I post pictures.
People know what I do.
People know what I run.
And we actually, I remember when you were doing
those selections and like the first round,
you're like, oh my God, guys,
I don't even know how I'm gonna cut through these,
let alone pick one or two, you know?
Yeah, I remember that.
I mean, the other part of it that was funny too
was Pip would call me and be like,
so I smoked two or three examples and I'm now ruined.
And I don't think I can judge anymore for a while
because I'm already so baked.
I kind of have to chill out before I can try anymore.
You know, cause that's what happens too.
Like testing a large number of things.
Sometimes it's like you can only test two or three a day,
you know, cause you wake up and you try a few
and then all of a sudden your day's changed.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's hard to keep a fresh palate
and a fresh head, you know?
It's a slow process to do it the right way.
You gotta do it over the course of days, weeks,
you know, months, if you got enough stuff, I guess, right?
So I'll say one thing and then I'll shut up
and let Pip talk.
But one of the things I think that's cool
that not very many people out here in breeding do anymore,
but we have some friends that do,
is that they make a hybrid like Rubber City
and then they hunt the hybrid
and then they select favorites from that
and then they do further work, right?
A lot of breeding today is sort of one step,
one off, one and done.
You make it, you release it, it's there till it's gone.
And you know, what we're about to talk about right now
is Pip, you know, he made some of his favorite selections
and then he used those to make more things.
So let's start off with Rubber Band.
Rubber Band?
Yeah.
Okay, Rubber Band is the Rubber City number 10.
So all this stuff on the Rubber City drop
is my Rubber City 10 selection that I reversed.
So that would be the Rubber City 10
crossed to Triangle Cush.
So I did that, I named it Rubber Band
as it's supposed to be said all as one word,
kind of like headband, Rubber Band, headband.
That's kind of my take on it, you know,
Sour Diesel, OG Cush, the Rubber City 10
is definitely more of a Sour Diesel leaning
looking type of plant,
even though I consider it multiple times
better than Sour Diesel,
I'll smoke it over Sour Diesel any day of the week.
Yeah, oh yeah.
Yep, so that's what the Rubber Band is.
I did a couple other ones.
I threw the Chem D in there, everybody loves the Chem D
and it's already got those funky, dirty,
like, you know, really, really gassy
and skunky type of like smells to it.
So I figured that would be a good one to throw against it
and just produce some nice yielders.
And that's called Dirty Rubber?
And that's gonna be the Dirty Rubber, yep.
I like that name, great name.
Yep.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And you have the Stardog,
you used the Corey Haim cut for Dirty Rubber?
I did, yep.
Like I said in the description,
I've always liked the Stardog, that Stardog cut,
it's a high yielder.
I pulled off some nice runs with it
before it makes big flowers, super gassy.
You know, JJ did some good work with,
really good work with that line, I enjoy that plant.
It's a great cropper and it's still got gas
and it shares a lot of similar traits
with my Rubber City Tennis.
You know, they're not the same plant by any means,
but they both are very vigorous growing, big.
They're that commercial style growth structure
and stretch and bud that you want, you know, like the colas.
So I just, I figured, you know,
it'd be fun to cross them together
and see what kind of craziness
comes out of those things, you know?
Yeah, and I see you have some Rubber City Backcross One
and Rubber City Backcross Two.
Let's talk about those.
Yeah, two different versions of the back crosses.
I crossed the Sour back or the Rubber City 10
to the Sour and I also crossed it to the four-way.
So you kind of have a choice.
You can kind of pick something that you're gonna wanna look,
wanna see a little bit more four-way
or you're gonna see,
want something that you're gonna see
a little bit more sour, you know?
Yeah.
The Gold Coast Hash Plant.
All right, Gold Coast Hash Plant, let's go.
Yeah, so the Gold Coast Hash Plant
is my Rubber City 10 selection
cross to Death Coast Sister.
So some of you people are familiar with my Death Coast.
It makes a lot of really good extracts,
especially solventless.
It's popular. The loudest.
Popular.
It's really, it's really impressive.
It's the loudest shit I've ever had.
And there's, it produces bunches of it.
So I run it over my t-shirt screens
and save jars of it and send it to friends
for a wow factor.
Yeah, it is.
So that their wives can scream at them
and why the house smells like a skunk.
Yep, yep.
That's for real.
That shit's for real.
So yeah, but anyway,
the Death Coast was out of the BC1 generation I did.
I crossed Sour Diesel and Death Star
and made a selection.
And that was the popular one at the time.
But a lot of people don't know
that I made a secondary selection as well,
which was definitely a more sour type of looking plant.
And I enjoy it.
It was a little bit different than Death Coast
and I've been smoking it for a long time.
And eventually I started,
I was making Death Coast Hash.
And I said, oh, I'll make Hash
with the Death Coast Sister too this time
and see how it does.
Because every time I break it up,
you know something's hashy when you break it up for a joint.
And you see, you can just see it all fall onto the table.
You've moved the pile of weed a little bit.
And there's a line of Hash left, you know.
I have to break it up.
Yeah, just dumps.
Yeah, just dumps.
So, and I've always liked the plant.
So anyway, it just, you know,
I broke that thing up and it was dumping big time,
big, big time.
And I was just, the smoke was phenomenal.
I was like, I gotta do something with this thing.
This is too good.
So I crossed it to my Rubber City 10
and when it was seeded up,
breaking it up when it was even,
because seeded plants are, you know,
notoriously thought to not produce as much resin, right?
You there?
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah, seeded plants are thought
to not really produce as much resin, right?
Well, this thing dumped just as good, if not better,
seeded as it does unseeded.
And it was just, I've got the pictures on my IG.
You can see the gloves.
It's just after every couple ounces, two, three ounces,
breaking it up with your hands,
the gloves are just so caked
that they're falling apart and ripping.
Like you have to switch your gloves and...
It's pretty wild.
It's pretty wild stuff to see.
Is the Death Coast Sister,
is that what we would call like internally the SDBX7?
Yes, yes.
That's what, yeah, in our group.
That was like the first name on the label?
The Sour Diesel BX number seven plant.
Yeah.
Yeah, not BX7, but BX number seven.
Yeah, yeah.
Yes, yes.
Yep, so I've had that one for a while.
You know, pride, a moment of my pride and joys.
I only, the flower is nice.
A lot of people request the flower.
I personally prefer to smoke the hash over the flower.
Same with the Death Coast.
They're-
I like the flower.
It just, the flower is good, but I love my hash.
And when I got a plant that dumps like this,
you know, that's what I'm using it for.
And that's kind of what I created it for,
is for to be like a hash plant, you know?
I'm shocked at this.
I don't know why.
I mean, cause you were,
this is one of the cuts you were real open with
about sharing.
Yeah.
I don't know why that this didn't hit the,
like boom past the hype market and just shoot to the top
because of how much it dumps,
like for resin production, extracts, how loud it is.
Like some people will smell this as straight up skunk,
I think.
Some people like, I smell more burnt rubber
with that back end,
but to a lot of people,
this is going to be one of the skunkiest things
they've ever smelled.
Strangely, I think the skunk comes out stronger
in the hash.
Definitely.
Yeah, that's for sure.
And I think that happens with a number of constraints.
Yeah.
The skunkiness is amplified in hashish.
Yeah.
It really is.
It's, I love my hash, man.
Yeah.
Good hash too.
What else we got?
Let's see, talk about the premium rubber.
Yes.
Premium rubber is one of my pride and joy creations.
That is both of my rubber city selections crossed together.
You still there?
Yeah.
Okay.
So the four and the 10.
Yeah, the four and the 10 crossed together.
And those are my two favorite plants.
That's all I smoke really.
I smoke silver pearl.
I smoke, I throw a mix of other stuff in,
but my daily smoke for the past four years
has been pretty much the rubber city 10
or the rubber city four.
The rubber city number 10 is more of a high yield,
like higher yielder than the four.
Like as far as like bigger buds, I shouldn't say,
I mean, it's slightly higher, higher yielder,
but it's bigger buds.
It's more along the sour side of the spectrum,
but it's still got all the gas and skunk
and onion and rubber.
It's got all that stuff in it,
but it's like the high yielder.
So it's kind of like the all-star.
So I look at that as like the commercial all-star,
and then I have the number four,
which is like my head stash all-star,
even though I smoke them both the same.
But the head stash one is a little bit less sour diesel,
more like, it's got the sour diesel.
It's got all of the gassiness, all the skunkiness,
all the everything, but it's got a lot of aromas
and potency from the four-way cut.
So it's very, very hashy.
Like it burns, when you take a hit off a bull
and you set the bull down,
that bull just keeps burning,
a little trail of smoke off of it,
like when you're smoking hash out of a bull, right?
Yeah.
But with just the weed, like that's,
and it tastes like hash,
and it is just one of the most potent plants.
I put it right there next to the Death Star.
It's just, it might surpass it.
I really, it's so, I don't know, man.
It's my favorite plant that I've ever made
and that I've ever selected.
And I'll probably have it with me till I go to my grave.
Yeah.
Yeah, if I can control it.
I'm still partial to the Pearl,
but this stuff for people looking for like
those volatile sulfur compounds,
this is such a special plant, such a special plant.
But don't forget about his Pearl S ones that he's got,
cause those are pretty phenomenal too.
So I have no doubt people are gonna find
some extremely nice plants in,
not all of this of course,
but especially the premium rubber.
With that four being crossed in there,
the sky's the limit.
I mean, there could be some serious unicorns
pulled out of that thing, I think.
And so that's kind of one that I really,
I really take a lot of pride in.
I like that one.
And then I have the last one would be the Goodyear,
which is the rubber city number 10 S ones as well.
Cross to itself.
And those will be extremely high yielding.
They will be more along the lines of sour,
but a lot of them are more,
the rubber city 10 is more dense than a sour,
but it's not like dense, like Indica dense.
It's just not as loose as like sour is.
And it's easier to grow.
Sour is a finicky plant.
I mean, you can grow it and get it to come out okay,
but to get it to come out 110%,
like you really gotta, you know,
it's really easy to make boofy sour.
Oh yeah, oh yeah.
Big time.
I've seen a lot of bad sour that was actually sour,
but just bad.
It's easy to screw it up.
I'm guilty.
I've done it before, you know.
Definitely have myself.
But it's just, sour is just such a tough plant.
And that's kind of one of the reasons I wanted to do this
is just because it's, these plants are,
I feel like better than sour
and they are easier to grow than sour.
They're not as finicky and sensitive
and all that kinds of stuff.
And I feel like, you know,
people say clones lose vigor over the years
and stuff like that.
I didn't have sour diesel in the nineties.
So I don't know what it was like back then,
but today it's still a nice plant and vigorous
and it makes a good yield,
but it's gotten nothing on the River City 10.
Like it's just this, the rubber,
like we were talking about how Illudium
is like the new Bubba,
like the Rubber City number 10 is basically like
how I look at it.
It's the new upgraded version of sour diesel.
I know the guys in our group are running it like that too.
Oh yeah.
They're using it and working it into lines
as their new sour of bitter and cry baby in those guys.
Yeah.
One thing maybe that I thought we could mention real quick
before we run out of time here is that the,
when Pip was just talking about, you know,
some of these hybrids,
he actually did something that I think is really cool.
And it's kind of, it's actually super rare,
which is most times when people make feminized hybrids,
they're either out crossing it to a totally different line
or they are S1ing it.
And one of the rarest things is to make feminized seed
from two different examples from the same line.
Yeah.
Right.
So making something like the RC 10 by the RC 4
is actually something that's super rare.
It's actually a feminized rubber city line, right?
Yeah.
It's further work.
And it's one of the rarest things that you'll see
on the market because almost all feminized reversals,
like I said, are either S1s
or out crosses to something different.
It not line work.
There's very little feminized line work in a way.
So I don't know exactly know what you'd call RC 10 by RC 4,
like how you'd exactly.
F1R.
That's what we call it.
What?
F1R, F1 reversal.
Just.
F2?
Yeah.
I mean, it's the second generation of rubber city.
Yeah.
I mean, it's a reversal.
It's in the same line.
So it's in crossing it in a sense too.
It's just, it's a pure rubber city line.
I guess it isn't an F1.
It's not.
It's F2R.
It's not an F1.
It would be an F2R.
Yeah.
F2R.
Because it is a totally different clone.
Yeah.
F2R.
Yeah, you're right.
I would point out that in Femini seed,
it's that line is one of the rarest things,
which it's line work, but made Femini style.
It's not an out cross and it's not an S1.
It's not inbred.
It's, you know, it's two full sisters crossed to each other,
which doesn't happen that often.
Yeah.
I've seen it happen quite a bit lately.
I think people are finally starting to catch on
to stuff like that.
And if my theory is correct about the super skunk trade,
the Afghan T trait being a, what is it?
Double recessive.
Then every time you cross to the Afghan T types together,
you're reinforcing that trait
and you're getting those volatiles sulfur compounds,
like just stacking and stacking.
That's what I think's going on.
And like, this is that ultimate example of that.
I mean, if you want some of its parents or some of its,
some of its rare stuff that could be in the line to pop up,
that would probably be the line to look through.
Oh yeah.
Like I said, Matt, there is going to be,
I mean, I haven't done a ton of that line yet.
I've just done small populations, but the, you know,
eventually I would like to throw down a couple of hundred
seeds of premium rubber and the Goodyear
and even some of the BC work, you know?
Yeah.
And just really go through them like the right way.
Unfortunately, like in my position, you know,
up until this point,
I've only been able to test like 50 plants,
around 50 plants of each line that I make.
Yeah.
And you know, that's done me pretty good.
That's given me some really nice selections.
Oh yeah.
Surprisingly, you know, I really didn't think it was at
first when I first started all this,
I didn't think it was going to be that easy.
I figured I'd have to look through a thousand seeds to,
to find that one, you know, and sometimes you do,
I feel like, you know, you probably do.
If they're popping A's maybe.
Right.
Sorry, I had to troll Tom.
I mean, sometimes you get lucky and you find it in five.
Sometimes you find it in 50.
Sometimes it takes multiple rounds because you can find
exactly what you were hunting for.
So it just is, you know, it's, it's a law of,
it's a roll the dice and a law of averages.
Yeah.
50 has been good for me.
Like I said, I have found some amazing seeds and,
or amazing plants and, and 50 seed populations.
You know, you know, you do 50 seeds of premium rubber
or the Goodyear or something like that.
And I mean, we're talking,
you're going to be seeing everything those lines have to
offer. That's, I mean, you're going to find,
you're going to find some really, really, really nice stuff.
You don't need to pop a hundred seeds.
You don't even really need to pop 50, you know,
like you just, you know, get a few packs.
And then that's another thing I'd suggest if anybody's
interested in like figure out what line you want and,
and buy multiple packs.
Yeah.
In my ear.
That's a mistake I made early on in my,
in breeding is I would go to Amsterdam and I would buy like
20 different things instead of buying a bunch of packs of a
few different things and having more to look through.
Cause I got excited.
So sometimes having more seeds of one line is better than
having, you know, one pack of eight different things.
Also from a breeders perspective, when I get orders in,
and since I'm the one filling orders and I think, you know,
Pip's going to be too,
when we see someone old order multiple packs of one line,
like 99% of the time,
I'm going to hook them up with like multiple packs of other
lines too, because I know they're doing serious stuff.
I know they're being serious about what they're doing.
So I'm more likely to do stuff like that.
I can put it in free stuff.
And, you know, surprisingly it's, it's, it's kind of rare.
Not very many people do that.
Would you agree?
It is that rare?
Yeah, no, it is that rare.
Yeah, it's definitely that rare.
And that's why when I see it, I'm like, yes,
I'm going to hook this dude up.
They're serious.
People know what they're doing.
People that are on a mission, they know the strain they want.
They know they want to find the one.
So they drop the money on it.
They make the investment and, you know,
it doesn't matter what it costs.
As long as you get the plant, that plant,
you can make the sky's the limit, whatever,
however much money you want.
Cause you have that plant for the rest of your life,
you know, it doesn't matter if that seed costs $20 or $30
or $40 or whatever, you know,
hell that thing, that plant will pay itself back.
When you grow it from seed and then you have it forever.
So it's always nice to find that special one.
So anyway, if you, if you're gonna,
if you're looking at the menu, you know, just,
just pick a line or two or whatever that you're interested
in and, and get a few packs of it, you know, two packs,
I mean, you're gonna,
you're gonna be happy with all the plants obviously,
but it's a lottery.
It's a numbers game when you grow seeds, as everybody knows.
Like I said, I got lucky with my number 10 and number four,
they were in the first 10 seeds of a larger progeny,
you know, it's just the roll of the dice sometimes,
but, but you're gonna be happy.
I mean, you're gonna be happy with anything you get
that's crossed to the River City 10.
And they're all gonna be really nice plants.
Of course, there's always some better than others.
But like I said, it's just a numbers game,
grab, you know, two, three packs.
That should, that should be enough for most people.
If you're like extremely serious, you know,
and you really just wanna guarantee you're gonna find like
just, you know, one, two or three or more awesome,
like insane blow your mind stuff, then, you know,
make the investment and get you,
get you at least like 30 seeds, 40,
something like that if you can afford it,
but it's not for everybody.
What now?
That's my advice.
If they wanna get any of these,
how do they get ahold of you?
They, I will be doing the release this Tuesday
at what time did I say it was?
Let me check my notes here real quick.
Yeah, Tuesday, January 31st, 6 p.m. Pacific
and 9 p.m. Eastern time.
All right, Tuesday, January 31st.
Yep.
Okay, I put the wrong date on the back bumper,
but thankfully we're covering it up so you can't see it.
I was like, okay, yep, good job, Stoner.
And they will be able to get those.
You can go to the link in my bio
on either on my Souvenir Seed Co page or my Pips Weed page.
And there's a link there to take you to a URL
where you can view the menu and everything
and read all the instructions.
And then once you made your choice,
then you'll just email, I believe it was,
I just made the email.
Souvenir Seed Co?
No, actually not.
Souvenir Seed Co, if you have any questions for me,
but the people running the sale and everything is not me.
So that's only order related questions on there.
And that email or yeah, that email will be
the rubbercitydropatprotonmail.com.
So rubbercitydropatprotonmail.com.
Once you've looked at the menu
and you have your order ready,
then all the instructions are at that URL
and you can get ahold of us
and we'll get you set up nice and good.
All right, that's awesome.
So yeah, you also have your Instagram,
your Instagram page where you can find all these pictures
of all these amazing plants.
What's your Instagram?
My Instagram, personal Instagram is Pips Weed, all one word.
And then my other seed company Instagram
is Souvenir Seed Co.
Okay, and yeah, thanks for coming on
and talking about all these old strains
and what you got going on now.
We'll have to have you come back on sometime soon.
Yeah, I look forward to it.
To talk about some of the shenanigans
we've all gotten up to.
This went so fast.
So I figured we'll do it.
It did.
You know, there's so much more we could talk about.
I just wanna say one more thing.
Sure.
To all my supporters out there
and everybody who's supported me
through this venture and everything,
I really do appreciate it.
I put a lot of care and passion and love into what I do
and it brings me a lot of joy to see other people
be happy from, you know, growing my work and my strains
and to hear all the stories.
And it just brings me a lot of joy.
So I love doing what I'm gonna do, what I do.
I'm gonna be taking a break for a while.
I don't have any plans in the near future,
but I will be back at some point, I promise.
And, you know, one love to you guys.
Thanks for all the support.
Yeah, man, thanks for coming on
and letting everybody hear from you.
It's an honor.
Yeah.
Thanks for having me on the show, Matt.
One of the things I'll say to that
is that in addition to the history part that Matt and I did,
one of the main reasons why we did this podcast
was to give people a chance to listen
to how like we nerds like to chit chat
about various different things.
And so Pip is a very good friend
who we've been chatting for a long time in private,
years and years chatting about different stuff.
And so it's cool to bring personal friends on
who have get a chance to talk about their passion,
their work, what they're interested in.
And I think that like the way he breeds is pretty neat
because he doesn't really do any hype stuff too much.
He kind of like, if you listen to this podcast,
he kind of like collected strains over the years
and he picked favorites and then he decided
what happens if I mix these favorites?
And that is sort of like the basis for what he's been doing.
So it's a very personal approach in my opinion.
He bred things he liked,
which is something I always tell people to do.
Pick things you like and try to find things you like,
and don't care about what the rest of the world thinks,
find things that you think are interesting.
And I think that this list definitely represents that
in a big way.
And I think that's a big positive.
And it doesn't matter if your family gets upset
that you hang out at rest stops.
And with that, this will be the end of the show.
Thanks.
It was like I was connected with everything around me.
All of a sudden I just started questioning
everything I'd ever been told.
You know, by the time I got high that very first time,
when it started to hit me,
and I'm like, wow,
I got high.
That's a skunk gunk gunk, dude.
Perfect script from up north, dude.
Cut a paw on it?
