So we're just gonna assume that we're here. What's up everybody? How's everybody
doing? Welcome to Breeder Syndicate. Today we're gonna go and talk about the
sequel to what we were discussing the last episode, which was the early years
of the Dutch seed bags. Yep, so I mean kind of last year we, or last last time
so to speak, we chatted a lot about how they got started. We chatted about Neville
and all that, and we kind of took us, took everybody through like the
first three or four years. You know I see that there's a bunch of cool questions
this week that have already popped up, so we'll get to that in a little bit, but
we're gonna kind of start on, we're gonna kind of start and take you guys through
like the last say like 10 years or so of Neville's influence and kind of his
history. Yeah, you know we got a bunch of notes and things like that. We'll hold up
some stuff on occasion to give you guys some ideas, all that all that type of
stuff. So you know probably the easiest way to start is to say that in 1990, in
1988, that was kind of when Neville had been in business like three years or so,
and that's when he kind of started to sort out like favorites amongst
what he had. He had had to, he'd collected a number of cuttings from
America by then, he dealt with a bunch of breeders by then, he had bred with a
number of these things for three or four years in some cases at this point, and
that's where his collection started to go from sort of a hodgepodge grab bag of
things to more of the famous stuff that we all became familiar with when we
started getting into weed history. Northern Lights 1, Northern Lights 2, G13,
you know, Hash Plant, NL, you know, NL Hazes and stuff like that. So 88 to 90 is
kind of really when people are probably like more familiar with that stuff. Yeah.
Because he'd, you know, he'd sort of settled on what worked for him, right?
Where before he'd been just kind of playing around with everything, he really
didn't know what he'd had. People had sent him stuff, people had, he'd bought
things off various folks, and he, you know, but these are just names to him. To us,
you get NL, you get Maple Leaf, you get Haze, that all means something because
there's a lot of history behind it. But probably to him, there was just a lot of,
they were just literally names from dudes. Well, early on, he was sourcing a lot of
seeds and later on, and over those three years, he became a breeder as opposed to
just sourcing and passing on genetics. He actually started working lines, which is,
which is where these amazing lines come from. Yeah. And he, and he had done a bunch
of breeding and he sort of figured out what was an inconsistent pain in the ass,
for lack of a better term, and what was consistent. You know, Neville was always,
he was always sensitive to what people wanted. You know, he wanted to sell seeds,
he wanted to make people happy. And so people weren't happy a lot of times with
incredibly variable stuff that didn't perform well. And so he, you know, he had
started to figure out what males were good to use repeatedly, what females were
champs and bred well with lots of different stuff. And so we're gonna, we're
gonna start kind of, you know, walking through some of that type of thing.
Okay, which one do you want to start with first?
Um, maybe we should start with, we kind of talked a lot about, uh, Northern Lights
last time. That was probably one of the things that we expounded upon the most.
Yeah. So maybe we could chat about, because 1988 is when things dramatically
changed. Yeah. In that regard. From 85 to 87, he just sort of sold a variety of
weird hybrids of Northern Lights. And you kind of got, you just bought straight NL,
Northern Lights. It was a grab bag of all the different types. Yeah. Well, by, by 88,
he had decided that there was two lines that really made the most sense. NL1 and NL2.
Yeah. NL1 was sort of like a broad leafed Afghan, possibly you could call it a Bubba type,
you know, widely frosty golf ball type, uh, you know, nugs almost maybe slightly yellowish.
And that was probably one of his most consistent lines he had,
because he took all the Northern Lights and he bred them together. Yeah. Right. Independently.
And so in 88, he offered what was called NL1F3. Yep. And NL2F3.
I wish I could put these up on the screen, but I can't, because I don't have the controls.
Yeah. We'll just have to read it. We'll just have to read it. So, so basically, um, you know,
those two things they became, and we'll talk about a little bit more later, but these kind of became
like mainstays in cannabis for quite some time. They became permanent additions, right? Yeah.
As well as that, as well as offering them pure. So let's figure he gets them at 80, 84. He starts
messing around with them in 85 ish by 88. He'd had, you know, three years of having them. He'd
taken them to F3. Right. And he was releasing them as a, as a more consistent variety. Yeah.
And so that's the first 88 is the first is the first year that those two things pop up.
Right. And it's also the first year that you start seeing. So in addition to offering both of those
strains as straight itself, you start seeing NL two and NL one being used as breeding males
in all kinds of stuff that he had. Right. Um, NL one, I, there's probably nothing that he used as
much as a breeding male as NL one. Is that the biggest one, biggest focus on the company as a
male overall looking back? Yeah, I would say so. I mean, you can, you can look at stuff and, um,
you know, he, a lot of the, you know, a lot of the stuff that he had, you know, that he got his
cuttings for instance, um, like hash plant, um, hash plant. He first offered his hash plant by NL
one. Yeah. He gets big bud as a cutting. He offers it as big bud by NL one. Yeah. Um, you know, he
gets, uh, he gets a variety of things and he starts crossing it by NL one 88 is interesting too,
because you know, he had gotten these old Hayes seeds from Sam skunk man. And, uh, in addition to
some other people in Holland and 88 is the first year that any kind of Hayes hybrid pops up. And
it's one that maybe a lot of people haven't heard of, right. Uh, it's very weird. It's Hayes by NL
one. Uh, and so it was only offered for one year, but what's unique about it is that all the other
Hayes hybrids he offered used Hayes as a male. This actually was a female that he found that
he called Hayes beat. Yes. Right. So there's this one year where all of a sudden you could get
Hayes B by NL one. And of all things, it was NL one rooter Wallace. Yeah. So, uh, that's the first
time that Hayes pops up that I'm aware of in a catalog in Holland. Okay. I think so. Yeah. You
know, that's, that's, that's, do you think you're right? Um, and it was because he hadn't settled on,
he hadn't, you know, he, he was still experimenting a little bit, but he'd figured out some things.
Yeah. Right. He had also, um, he'd gone to America and he had acquired through Jorge
Cervantes is connections in the Pacific Northwest, uh, in the Oregon, uh, Washington area. Uh,
Jorge had hooked him up with some unknown, uh, growers and those unknown growers gave him G 13
and what became known as the Pacific Northwest hash plan. Uh, both of those things ended up
getting used pretty extensively in future years. Yeah. Right. So, um, you know, he, he also, I
don't know if, I don't know if Matt can show it or not, but he, the 87 update, I don't know.
I can't do it. You don't have, you don't have, you can't do it. So he offered this 87 update.
One of the things that was cool about novel is that he, he gave a lot more data on what the
hell he was doing versus most other breeders. It was extensive, especially in that 87 update.
That's really like more updated than most growers back then would have even given a fuck.
He, he lays it out. Right. So, um, you know, he, uh, he starts talking about it and he talks about
basically both the hash plant and the big bud that he crossed to NL one. Yes. And then he took that
and he back crossed it, uh, males of that back to the original. And so that's how he became,
that's how big bud and hash plant actually got offered is as separate strains is he used NL one,
um, to BX them for, uh, you know, he, so, so they're actually, um, you know, he never had
seed lines of those. Right. So, and he lays out in like extensive detail. I can't show it to you on
the screen right now, but he kind of lays out like his, like step-by-step how he figured it out.
What kind of he knows we're going to be in it, what you could look for, um, all that type of stuff.
And so that's when 88 is when a lot of, uh, that's when a lot of the famous stuff that we all know of
really pops up. The G 13 hash plant, I think pops up that year. I think it, you know, it does. And
then, you know, he, you know, he found some of these, some of these Indica strains, these,
you know, he, um, some of these Indica strains were a lot more consistent than what he was
working with. And so once you find consistency, you start crossing them to different things and,
um, you start, you know, you start getting these various hybrids of such. So, uh,
you know, I don't know. Um, and then 89, 90 is really when like he solidified
the sort of the lineup as it were, and that lineup ended up staying pretty consistent, um,
in, in, in the seed bank catalog and even going into Sensi. Um, a lot of that stuff ended up
getting ported over. So you could kind of look at it and if you're thinking about it in that way,
I would say probably by the late eighties, probably the three most consistent females that he used
were, um, NL five, uh, G 13 and hash plant. Yep. Those, those were sort of the three most common
Indica's that he would use as, as, as standard females, the hash plants. This is the PNW hash
plant cutting still looks very similar. Yeah. After all these years, it still looks similar,
kind of ugly, very, uh, to be, to be perfectly honest about it. Not that by modern standards,
not particularly pretty nuts. And then as far as males go by 89, 90, you would say that the,
the most common males he used was like I said before, it was certainly NL one.
He also used NL two a bunch. Um, you know, in, you know, he, you had, um, uh, Northern lights
five by Northern lights too. You had G 13 by NL two. Um, had Northern, you had all kinds of stuff
by NL one. Yeah. Hawaiian Indica was by NL one. Big bud was by NL one hash plant was by NL one.
Uh, that Hayes I spoke about was by NL one. Yeah. All that stuff. I'll answer one quick question.
I see it coming on the thing. People talk about the airborne and the Pacific G 13 cuts. Uh,
those are a little hazy, but, um, it's most likely they're not pure G 13. They're most likely a G 13
by NL two like that, like that would be a Fino popping out of the seeds of the airborne pop drum.
Pacific is a lot different. Um, that one, that one is a lot, has a lot more of a cloudy history.
Um, we know the breeders that offered it and stuff, but it never quite panned out the same
as airborne as far as, uh, producing quality and, and stuff similar to G 13.
So, yeah. So, and then, um, aside from NL one and NL two, uh, the other probably two most common
males that he used by, you know, 89, 90 would have been the Hayes male, uh, and skunk one,
which he's now the Hacey, Hacey, Hacey. Um, he, you know, the Hayes story, it's probably,
we could probably talk about it a little bit. Yeah. If you want to brush up on it,
brush on it, we can brush on it. So, um, so, uh, Sam's got man, uh, fleas America,
and he comes over to your, he comes over to Europe and he's trying to get set up and he has, um,
skunk one and Hayes seeds. And then from Mel Frank, he has Durbin poison and Afghani one seeds.
And he has a couple other seed lines that he'd collected from California orange. I think that
was from Rob Clark. Oh, was that from Rob? Okay. I believe so. Um, he had a number of things. Um,
Paul, uh, Paul, you know, he had a number of things from Rob, Rob followed him out later,
early Pearl, early girl. Yeah. The early girl, the, um, you know, the Pearl stuff, early Pearl,
uh, some of the Mexicans that, that Neville offered, uh, those were from Sam initially,
but they were from, um, but they were, but they were from Rob, you know, so Sam ended up coming
over. Sam ended up coming over to, um, to Europe first in New York. He kind of brought a hodgepodge
of various, uh, collectors and, and people's lines. Right. Um, and so, uh, so, you know,
there's, there's a, there's a debate between, um, well, it's not a debate anymore because Neville's
past, unfortunately, but there was a long debate that was likely never to be solved where, um,
Sam has a number of stories about the early Hayes and how it happened. Neville has his own stories
that could be an entire podcast in itself. But suffice to say that when Sam came over to, uh,
Europe, he sold some Hayes seeds to Neville. Uh, he sold some Hayes seeds to, uh, the founder of
SSSE. Um, he gave some to the owner of, uh, positronics, um, and maybe someone else, maybe.
There was a few people, at least, at least three people are documented to have gotten, um, stuff
from some, from Sam, right. When he came over. Right. I think that's been pretty well done with
the Hayes. So, uh, Sam, so Neville, Neville Neville story just real quick is they were a bunch of old
seeds. He cracked a bunch of them. Uh, most of them did not pop. Uh, and he, the first female he
got, he unfortunately killed because it never finished flowering. It took forever. It was a
huge pain in the ass. He got another female, which is the B, which I spoke about, um, which I spoke
about earlier as being the first actual release. And what really became famous is he got two males,
which he called a and C. Right. Um, and sadly, your audio is clipping a little bit. It is. Yeah.
Yeah, I think so. My back. Yeah. Yeah. You're there, but I mean, it's like, it's hitting high
points. Clip it better now. It should be good. Okay. So, um, he got two males, uh, A and C,
they both ended up becoming kind of famous C much more so. And he, he, he crossed,
he crossed the aid to basically everything, every good Indica he had, uh, and he made a mistake with
his workers in 89 and he lost the male early. So yeah, ever, he never sold, he never sold any
commercial, uh, he never sold any commercial seat of a, so everybody, everybody that, um,
that gets NL five Hayes or any of that other kind of Hayes crosses, silver Hayes, all that.
It's all using the C male. Cause that's the one that survived. Yeah. Right. Uh, and strangely,
um, it seems like Neville had more success finding fire in the Hayes seeds that he got than other
people did. Yeah. That's what it sounds like. That's what it sounds like. I mean, and it sounds
like he had 10 seeds total is what it sounds like. So he, so there's debate in that and there's camp
that believes that he got similar things to everyone else and he just had better Indica's
to cross them to than anybody else. Yeah. There's another camp that thinks that, um, Neville claimed
that Sam sold him old seeds that he said would have a low germination rate that were from 69 to
70 and maybe Sam and that maybe Sam, when he first got there, sold some original stuff before he did
his open pollinations in Holland and the people that got ahold of that original first batch of
Hayes that he brought over with him got better quality Hayes than people did later on. Yeah.
Uh, it's not really a debate that we can solve being that it's two dudes from 1984, 1985. Yeah.
Right. And they disagree. Um, you know, but we do have, you know, all three guys that he, that,
well, Neville and the, you know, the guy from SSSC and the positronics gentlemen, they all
agreed that they got Hayes seed from Sam at the same time, same year, same time, same bag,
everything, all that kind of stuff. And so we know, you know, we have, we have, we have documentation
from others that, that it certainly happened. Yeah. Right. And so that's when, um, by 80, by
89, 90, that's when all the famous stuff you start hearing about, which is NL five by skunk one and
by two G 13 by NL two, um, you know, NL five by, I think NL five by Hayes was actually
released via catalog, not until 80, 89, 90. Here's a pretty picture. And I was just looking
earlier and it's NL five. It's a, I think it's a much prettier picture than on the back of a lot
of the catalogs that they show where it's just like a jumbled up close shot of some kind of
frosty leaves. This one is a much better, I think it gives a much better picture of the bud structure,
overall growth patterns and whatnot. So that's really interesting because that's the famous
NL five cutting. Yeah. Um, a, uh, I'll, I'll answer a quick question just cause I was talking
about it. Somebody just asked where's Tom Hill's Hayes fits in. Yeah. And, uh, you know, I would
say that, uh, Matt knows a bit more about that than I, but I believe that Tom Hill got his Hayes
stock from positronics. Yeah. It's the old positronics Hayes. I don't know if I think it's
the old positronics Hayes 19 based on all that. So that, that's where, um, Tom Hill's Hayes comes
from one of the, uh, you know, one of the, one of the first people that gave, gave Hayes to,
um, positronics. Um, and let's see here. So lost my train of thought for a second,
answering that question, but the NL five that he was just holding up, maybe we can talk about that
for a second because it's interesting. So Neville, there's, we were talking about on the previous
podcast, how there was always two famous cuttings of NL five. Um, on the interview that Matt did
with, uh, Greg Seattle, Greg of Northern lights fame. He said that he got a cutting of NL five,
and it was from his friend Herbie who Steve Murphy's Afghan and crossed it to a Colombian
Mexican. Yeah. And that was the cutting that he sent Neville Neville claims he got that cut and
he didn't like it very much compared to the cut that he found Neville story is that he popped a
bunch of NL five seed lines. Cause that's one of the lines he got from Greg. And most of it was an
Indica Sativa hybrid mess. It wasn't particularly useful, but he got this one plant that was what
he called the throwback plant that looked pure Afghan and had no influence of Sativa whatsoever.
And as you see this short stocky dense budded frosty. Yeah. That picture, I would say leads up
to, um, to Neville's, you know, Neville's story being correct. Yeah. Um, and probably having some
truth to it because I would look at that thing and I would not say it had any Colombian or Mexican
influence. I would instantly say that looks pure Afghani. It would look like a pure Afghan. Yeah.
To me at least. So, um, you know, and, uh, so yeah, I mean that right there, that's the famous
NL five. He's that's the famous cutting that got crossed the Hayes that got crossed the skunk one
that got crossed in Northern lights too. Um, and it's really, you know, we mentioned it before,
but there was never a pure seed line of NL five offered. There was hybrids, correct.
Right. There was only hybrids offered. So, um, you know, uh, that's the cutting.
There we go. That discusses NL five. Do you want to go into
maple leaf Indica, the big bud stuff like that? Did we cover that?
I don't think we covered that too, too much. So, um,
we, one second, I gotta do something with Murray. Go ahead and start talking.
The, uh, um, so the, so basically once he, once he found that NL five cutting,
um, like I said before, that's when he started crossing it, it became one of his standards.
Yeah. No, in, in the, in the situation. Um, and you know, he had, you know, like he crossed it to
skunk one that became an extremely famous strain, uh, five by skunk one NL five. Hayes is probably
the most famous line he did. Yeah. And I buy two is also super famous. And, uh, so, you know, he,
NL five G 13 hash plant. Those became sort of his standard Indica. Yeah. His, his, his best
producing females, uh, skunk one Hayes NL two and NL one became his most common, um, males that he
used. And he offered, obviously he never offered a pure NL five line or a pure, uh, Hayes line,
but he did offer a pure NL one, pure NL two pure skunk one. Um, you know, that type of thing.
I, you know, I never got to ask him why the, why of that, why didn't you ever offer Hayes,
Hayes peer or NL five peer? You know, I think, I think part of the reason why he never offered
his peer is because he, he screwed up early on and he lost too much of it. Yeah. He talked about
later on wishing that he could, um, that he could cross the, uh, that he would have been
able to cross the B to the a. Yeah. And he, you know, but he, he lost the B early. Um,
cause he didn't realize what he had. He lost the a on an accident. And so he sort of ended up with,
uh, he sort of ended up with not very much that he, you know, the C was like his most consistent.
Yeah. What do you have? What he had left. Yeah. Um, you know, and then strangely it seems like
for whatever reason, all the other people that got Hayes, nothing much came of it. Yeah. No matter
how much breeding or crossing they did, nothing became famous. Like the later Neville Hayes.
So like when I was going to, when I was going to coffee shops, uh, coffee shops were, um,
you know, they were full of, of C five, which is a NL five. He C eight, which is NL five. He's a,
uh, a G 13, which is G 13. Hayes a, they all, they also had a G 13. Hey, see,
they were full of Neville work. Yeah. Um, they didn't really carry much posse work. They didn't
carry any Sam work. They didn't carry any of those things. Um, you know, even though they
were easily accessible, those were standard people in Holland. So, uh, there must've been a significant
quality difference. Yeah. Had to have been. Um, and you know, I think even today,
is there, is there a famous Sam cut? Is there a famous pot? You know, it's all the stuff that
they do is not really all the stuff that they do is, is all the stuff that's hoarded over there.
Yeah. Is, um, you know, is, uh, what's my part? Neville cuts. Yeah. And, and, and right now I
just want to take the time. If any of you older judge gentlemen are watching this and have all
these cuts, give me a, give me a ring. I'd love to just to be able to chat about them and get,
and get further histories on a lot of these. Yeah. I mean, a lot of this stuff, you know,
one thing that should be mentioned about this is, uh, all this stuff happened on a different
continent and you know, what, uh, the story sounds pretty straightforward and simple right now,
but the amount of talking and time and energy and interviewing people and trying to make sure that
like, it's not just one person's opinion and that we can get other people to back up opinions
on this stuff takes a long time. Yeah. I mean, me and you have been working steady on this for,
I want to say three years now, just me and you together. And we've done our work on our own,
obviously, but like we have been pushing hard on this. So it's taken a long time to even get up to
this point to be able to say any of these things positively. Yeah. And I mean, when we say I'm
positively, uh, most of what we're saying is generally accepted, generally accepted fact for
now. Like you said, if there's some old timers or whatever, with some secret information out there,
that's not well known. Most of this history is oral. Some of these old guys have beefs with one
another. Some of them don't like one another very much. Yeah. Have their own egos and their own
versions of, of history and events. Um, and so, uh, see, there's a guy right there that just said
his 70 year old neighbor has had NL two since 93. Um, if that's the case, uh, we would love to talk
to you. Yeah. Right. Because there could be pockets of these things that survive. And yeah,
the hard part now is that for a long time, nobody gave a shit about these, uh, about these strains.
And so the information was a little bit more verifiable because there wasn't anybody trying
to claim rep or trying to claim we have this joke, we call it pre pre, um, where now ancient
old, whatever has come out of the woodwork. So it gets a lot harder to weed through who has what.
Yeah. And like, I, I was talking with another gentleman that we're, we're starting an interview
with. Um, and he was very important in the Dutch seat scene and he was talking about some of his
old lines possibly popping up in the U S and this is something that happens every few years. Someone
says I've got this stash of X, Y, Z I've kept, you know, Mason jars full of every single one
and done reproduction since 80 something. And it's, it's hard unless you have extensive knowledge
about these old lines and it runs up. How are you ever going to tell him? No, that's not correct.
It's, it's a hard situation. Yeah. I mean, there's a guy saying, you, you know, there's some old
school growers, um, there's pockets in America that aren't on Instagram that aren't on, on some
of these never got on the forums that live in police States, um, that have kept their circles
quite tight. Um, they don't, they might not even know how rare or how cool some of the stuff that's
been within their little circle that they've just been growing and smoking on might be, you know,
so we still have hope every time a bullshit artist comes up, I'll freely admit that there's a small
part of me that wishes it was true. I want it to be true. I want all the stories to be true.
I want every ancient rare being imaginable to be accessible, cuts and stuff like to pop up and be,
you know, and be available to people. And sadly there's a lot of people out there that are just
trying to make a quick buck. Uh, and when you sell beans, I mean, think about how many people
have been selling beans of a roadkill skunk for the last two or three years now. Right.
Yeah. Um, but I haven't seen any roadkill skunk flour. Yeah. It's hard. It's hard to get finished
flour with roadkill skunk turps. Everybody's figuring that out, you know, and you can sell
beans for quite some time before nobody, you know, and exactly. It's going to take a while
before they realize that you're not finding roadkill skunk. Exactly. Sell a lot of beans.
And there's people that have dropped thousands of dollars of, you know, hopes and dreams,
and spent months hunting and they get some floral citrus skunk one. Citrus skunk one,
resold them skunk one. Slight, you know, slight funk, slight whatever, not roadkill, not clear
skunk turps. So, you know, it's, uh, it's sad in that way. Um, you know, people were asking some
other stuff and, you know, we got a lot to cover, so we'll, we'll move on a bit, but to say 89,
90 is when Neville really established most of the strains that kind of became famous.
Yes. Yeah. That's when they all started popping up. That's when they all started popping up. That's
when he sort of figured out what he had, what was consistent to breed with, what made sense,
what lines people liked. Um, you know, he had this running joke that people would ask for the
highest level of quality imaginable. And if he sold them an awesome Indica, that was a hybrid
of two pure Indica's and it yielded like shit. They'd bitch and bitch and moan and whine and
complain because they wanted the best possible. And they also wanted to crush yields. Yes. So
that's always been a difficulty in, in cannabis. Um, you know, people want the best, people want
the greatest turps. Uh, there's lots of people out there in commercial world that don't want to
grow anything that takes longer than nine or 10 weeks. Yeah. They don't be a pain to trim.
Want it to be LARPy. They don't want it to be finicky or a low feeder. Massive yielding,
frosty, the highest amount of turps. Yeah. Everybody wants 20% THC. I want the strongest,
most potent weed you can possibly imagine with crazy turps. And I want donkey dick buds and I
want it done in 50 days. Yeah. Send it. Yeah. But you know, rarely does that occur. Yeah. Same
package sadly. Yeah. You know, a lot of the, a lot of the famous strains that we all smoke,
um, from a production standpoint are annoying. Yeah. Very much so. Especially the last
decade or so it's gotten worse. Nobody would ever pick the grow cookies.
No. Nobody would ever pick the grow cush where it's like, dink, dink, dink, dink, dink, dink,
nugs here and there. They don't hold themselves up. I mean, if you were like a commercial farmer
in the real world, um, you know, they'd be looking for some kind of like green crack, blue dream
type structure, solid top to bottom buds, easy to grow, fairly fast finishing. You know, that's
what, from a production standpoint, uh, and a, and a happiness standpoint, that's what you want.
But you know, um, even sour diesel, you know, that yields pretty well, takes a long time,
kind of feathery makes a lot of D buds. If you mess it up, it can be really LARPy, um,
you know, super tasty and it works really good. Burns really nice, but it's not blue dream.
No, it's not. It's not, you know, Barry white or something like that. It's not something that
that's just covered in nugs. And so, um, so yeah, so, uh, the, uh, uh, maybe we should talk about,
so he created all this stuff. Neville was the largest, there was really only two, you know,
there's other people that will claim to have seed banks. Yeah. Scenty seeds had a tiny seed bank.
Positronics had a small seed. There was other seed banks in Holland, but there was really only
two seed. And this is really why we're spending so much time talking about it is in the eighties,
there was really only two seed banks that were selling a lot of seed in America.
And in Amsterdam, in selling to America. And they were the first two seed banks that really
offered worldwide sales to anybody that was willing to come to Holland and buy them or out
there, their mail order sheet and send them an envelope with some money and a list. Yep. And
that was super sativa seed club, uh, and the seed bank, which was Neville. Yes. If Tiva seed club,
uh, started a little bit after Neville, um, it had similar things to him and had some of their
own stuff. Um, but Neville was the, he was the elephant. He was the big dog. He was, he was the,
he was the one selling the vast majority of stuff that people in America were buying from Holland
was Neville's. Yes. And that really, that's really what makes him so important because
the, uh, the seed game is super diversified now. Yeah. He basically almost had a monopoly.
Yeah. And it's why all these strains that are around today usually have something of Neville's
in it, if not both sides. Yeah. And so that there's a lot of, there's a lot of Neville work
in a lot of modern strains. Yeah. Um, simply because he was the only game and he was one of
the only games in town and tons and tons of people got his stuff and then they bred his stuff
into stuff they already had in America. Yeah. And so his stuff got blended in and you know,
his stuff got super famous. Obviously the NL five Hayes became a phenomenon in New York.
It started being great. It started being sold. You know, they call it the heist Hayes,
you know, the piff, the church, the, this, the, that, whatever. It got a massive, a massive
and the super skunk, uh, you know, became super famous, uh, as well.
He's talked about how super skunk and NL five Hayes were his two top selling varieties.
Yeah. You know, and so enormous amounts of those seeds got sold. Right. Yeah. And that's sort of
what, uh, maybe we can talk. So the 90 catalog is the final catalog of Neville's ownership of
the seed bank. Yeah. I don't think I have that one here. Um, and that there's a couple, there's
the most famous thing that came out of the 90 catalog was he released, um, super skunk. Yes.
Uh, super skunk was, you know, when sadly, uh, Sam did not like skunk. He didn't. Well,
you gotta say Sam likes skunk one. He did not like skunk smells. He didn't like skunk aroma.
Yeah. Aroma skunk one. And he tried to breed the skunk out of it. That is by his own quote,
right? Yes, he did. He has his own quote. He was going for more of the citrus grapes,
sweet floral. He liked those aromas. He was going for bud structure and other things.
Yeah. He didn't like the rank skunk. He tried to, uh, this, so I'll answer another question.
The silver Pearl came out as a, as a single strain, I think in the last two years of the seed bank,
uh, 88, 89 and 90. Yeah. He offered silver Pearl. And I quote me on the, on silver Pearl. It's,
uh, it's, uh, early Pearl something. I think it's, I think it's early Pearl. It might be NL
five early Pearl skunk one, something along those lines. Something like that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Uh,
let's see. I only see early Pearl improved in this one and it doesn't list anything, but yeah,
it's something like that. It's something like that. And he also released a silver Pearl by Hayes
in those couple of years, which was called silver Hayes, uh, at the time he called it, he called it
silver Pearl by Hayes. Yeah. Um, it got shortened to silver, silver Hayes at Sensi. So he, um,
you know, there was a guy named Jim Ortega that we'll talk about real briefly. And, um,
Jim Ortega, he traded with Jim gave him Cush for garlic bud, um, uh, maple leaf Indica and Hawaiian
Indica. Yeah. He offered Hawaiian Indica, um, by NL one in the last couple of years of his catalog,
three years of his catalog. He offered a maple leaf. Um, a pure yes. Called it a
Afghan breeder packs, I think, where you could literally buy, um, some of the original seed
stock that Jim Ortega gave him, you know, amazing. Would that have been? Yeah. I mean, and he, um,
and he offered garlic bud is a pure strain. Uh, the only thing that never really got offered is
a pure that never really got messed with too much was Cush for, yeah. Uh, there is a thing he sold
called Cush by Cush, which he said, Cush by Cush, which he said he crossed his two best pushes
to, um, you know, uh, to each other. And his two best cushions were Cush for an NL two.
Do you know what year that one's in? I was trying to show it, but I can't find it.
I'm going to say that one's in here. That one might be an 87.
Here's at least one of them in the 89 talking about it. I don't know how clear it is.
And he also offered skunk Cush, which was, and so that's, that's, you know, and then, uh, um,
so maybe we're getting pretty in depth here, but maybe, maybe we should talk about, um,
his fame led to issues, right? Let's get into that. He's selling millions of dollars in seed
to America. Yeah. It's the Reagan era. And then the George Bush era, it's the height of the war
on drugs, large penalties, weeds, totally illegal everywhere. Um, and there was a situation in which
a, um, a hydro store got raided, um, from whatever reason, some kind of, some kind of action.
And they discovered that this guy was supplying a bunch of growers. And in that they found money
and Neville's catalogs. And they realized that, uh, they realized that he was selling dollars in
seed, um, to America. And you, you notice in some of these back catalogs, it always says that it's
shipped from the U S or like in the high times, uh, ads for Neville's things that would always
say shipped from us. Well, what's interesting about that is this isn't factual, but I believe
it to be true. It's that Neville, I think had partners that he smuggled seeds into America.
Yeah. And then you would send Neville money and then he would communicate what you needed
and they wish the seeds from within the U S yeah. I think he was pretty, um, he was transparent
about that when it was going on. And so as a result of that, that meant that every seed batch
didn't have to go through customs. Yes. He just had to get it through customs occasionally.
And then he could sell it within the United States. Well, if you can imagine, uh, the DEA
and the government at the time took a pretty, uh, poor view of that aspect. Yeah. Right. And so,
um, operation green merchant happens where they decide to raid, um, everyone, every growth store
in the United for the most part, they rated the gross stores in the United States. They did a big
push. Right. And, uh, Neville gets caught, I believe in Australia and he gets busted.
Okay. Uh, and he ends up spending a good amount of time in jail, better part of the year. Yeah.
Um, and so that, you know, we're not gonna, this, this, this particular episode, we're not going to
talk very much about SSC. Yeah. We're going to save that for a different time. Um, but what that
did is that sort of, uh, um, led to a domino effect of sorts. It had a domino effect of sorts.
Uh, uh, super sativa seed club decided to stop. Um, because they saw what was going on with Neville
and it was pretty serious. Neville was already in, was obviously in jail and, uh, this gave an
opportunity for others who had seen how, how Neville and the super sativa seed club were doing
right. It left a void in Amsterdam, uh, in Holland. It was still, it was legal at that time,
obviously to produce seed for, um, to produce seed. Yeah. It was the only places in the, in the
world where it was totally legal to produce cannabis seed. Yeah. So, uh, Neville was sitting
in jail. Um, he was fighting extradition. They didn't want to extradite Neville to America
because, um, they wanted to put him in jail for life in prison and Australia and Holland,
which he was a citizen of both. Didn't agree with that. Yeah. So he was stuck in jail. Uh, and he,
um, you know, there was all of a sudden there was no seed banks. Yeah. There was no
seed banks left. It caused a bunch of, it caused a bunch of ripple effects. Uh, a whole bunch of
growers in America got busted, um, to do their relationships with various, uh, hydro stores and
stuff like that. Um, you know, uh, Greg Seattle, Greg talked in his interview with Matt about how
by the late eighties and that era, they had basically lost everything because of a series
of rolling busts. Uh, there were heavy presence. They were really going after people, electricity,
all this kind of stuff. And so, um, Sensi, which was founded by Ben and Alan drunkers,
they saw an opportunity and they offered to bail Neville out of jail and, uh, give him money to
help him fight his situation as long as he sold them their company. Yes. And that was the invention
of Sensi. So that was the death of the seed bank bank. Yeah. And Sensi, uh, Sensi absorbed him
and all of a sudden went from a nobody to the biggest game in town. That's right. Um, and they
bought, uh, they, they bought his seat back, right? Yeah. So doesn't, they start offering,
um, you know, and we actually, the Sensi 91 seed bank catalog is one of the rarest catalogs,
um, because it only was out for, it was obviously only out for one year and it shows the merger
of the seed bank with Sensi and they have a much, much more limited catalog than what they
offered in the future and a much more limited one than Neville was currently offering.
But by the time you split, so, um, yeah. And so as a result of that, uh, sadly for Neville,
Neville went from being the owner of the largest, most successful seed bank in the world
to the head breeder of Sensi. Yeah. He lost his company. He lost his self-control.
Uh, the government hated him. Yeah. Uh, and he was trapped in Holland for a long time
because the, the America wanted to come steal him, drive him to America and have him face
charges of life in prison for seed sales. Yes. Holland refused to extradite him because since
seed sales were legal and he was a citizen of Holland, they were not going to extradite one
of their citizens for doing something that was legal in their own country. Yeah. And we go to
life in prison in some other country, in some other country. He is not a citizen of other
countries, not a citizen. So he had his freedom, but he was stuck in Holland. The DEA and Interpol
was after his ass. Yeah. And he lost the biggest, most, most, the famous seed company and had to
give it to Ben and Alan drunkers and work for them. Yeah. And he, didn't he lose the castle
as well at that point? Yeah. He lost the castle. Um, there was a number of projects he had that
when he was in jail, never saw the light of day. Yeah. He was putting on releasing a, uh, NL five
seed line in 90 in 91. Yep. Um, he had taken the NL five cutting that Matt showed earlier
and he had BX it like eight times. Yeah. Um, he used NL one, like I said, with everything,
uh, he BX did eight times and he was planning on releasing it in, um, 1991 and it disappeared.
Yeah. That project disappeared. It never got released again. And so there was some things,
uh, somebody asked if they could see it again. Which one? The NL five. The NL five. Yep. Yeah.
There we go. So, yeah. So, so obviously that sucked for Neville, uh, spending a good 10 months
jail is no fun. Jail foods, no fun being in, in, in, you know, concrete jungle, no fun.
Losing your company's no fun. Yeah. Your company's no, I mean, yeah, it's like basically
they were like, Hey, we'll do you a solid. We'll get you out of jail and we'll get you back to
Holland, but we want your shit. Yeah. But by a minor competitor at that, someone that wasn't
even close to the level he, since he wasn't even close to where super city VC club or they were
a nobody compared to them. And so you're sitting in jail and your options are keep sitting in jail
or have these sort of a greasy Dutch businessmen, uh, offer to get you out and get you home and
give you some money and buy your company. Yeah. It sounds real good at the time. Sure. You know,
he chose the get out of jail, you know, uh, card, but then he lost control.
Wow. Yeah. So, um, you know, that was sort of the start of, you know, by the time that,
uh, Matt, Matt can speak to this a little bit. He got to communicate quite a bit with Neville. I got
to meet a few times. Uh, I've chatted with him a number of times. Matt had a much longer
back and forth with him, uh, much later in his career. That sounded super dirty.
And well, I just mean that, you know, I know what you mean. They communicated a lot more over a lot
more months, a lot more directly. Yeah. Then, you know, I met him through other people. I used to
go to Holland quite a bit to get seeds and I ended up meeting him a few times. I was a young guy.
It's not like I had some kind of a, you know, massive, uh, information dump from Neville to
myself. You know, I wasn't interviewing him or anything like that. I was a little shell shocked.
Uh, meeting somebody like that. So, um, but you know, Matt can attest that, uh, that was sort of
the start of Neville's bitterness. Yeah. Uh, you know, uh, things Neville paid more of a price than
most. Yeah, he did. Or, uh, spreading seeds for overgrowing the government for that kind of thing.
Um, and if you look at it, he was owed the most for doing this. And so, you know,
he felt like most people lived off the back of his work. Yeah. And it's not necessarily incorrect.
And he, he never, yeah, he never got, um, he never, he never got to reap the benefits as much
of his work as other people did. Um, his life got burned down on any number of different occasions.
Yeah. To be said, you know, this is kind of a personal part, not, um, not, uh, it's not the
greatest thing to talk about with Neville, but he was a herald. Yeah. That's actually the reason why
he went from Australia to Holland was, uh, you know, you know, he was getting, he was heavily
addicted in the early eighties or he was getting treatment. Um, and so I'm sure, um, that some of
his life issues were certainly self-inflicted because when you struggle with addiction like
that, your life is, um, your life is tough. Tell me about it. You have, you have, you have
ups and downs. You have issues, you know, you, you probably wasn't the easiest person to deal
with. He probably had moods, major mood swings, major mood swings, you know, better days than
others, better months than others type of thing. Um, you know, and then on top of that, like,
you know, a lot of times really talented people, um, sometimes they're paying the ass. Yeah.
The intelligent people, talented people can be very hard to communicate with.
Sure. Um, but what I will say about Neville that was different than most people
is that most Dutch, which is some, which is different than a little bit in America. Certainly
there's lots of people in America that are just like this. Yeah. But, um, in, he was probably one
of the only Dutch that really loved the plant and really did things as far as the famous Dutch. I'm
not like making a big general statement about everybody, but as far as like the, you know,
the Dutch are pretty famous for being extremely business oriented. Correct. They'll, they'll tell
you the truth as much as it helps their bottom line. Yeah. And if it doesn't help their bottom
line, they could give a shit. Yeah. So Neville was extremely open about lines and strains and
what he used and how he did it, what he did it with and where he got it from. Yeah. There's
nobody in the Dutch scene that we know more about who he got strains from and what he did to create
strains, all everything. Yeah. A lot of other seed banks in Holland. It's a mystery. They have zero
interest in telling you. Yeah. They've had decades to tell you they don't care. Yeah. There are a few
that might be popping up that, that, uh, are, are pretty interesting. That's why I wanted to make a
qualifier because he's by no means is the only one, but there are plenty of, you know, and that's
the sad thing is that, um, you know, uh, the drunkards are still alive. Correct. Yeah. But
they're terrible interview. Yeah. And they don't care about history. No, that's not their interest
at all. He will tell you to this day that they have every original plant known to man.
They feed with all the same plants. They still make their own seeds. They still make their own
seeds. Even been verified by any number of different sources that they outsourced it to
Spain sometime. Yeah. Yeah. And that they lost a lot of plants. Um, but you can't get actual history
out of them. Correct. Yeah. They don't care. It's hard. Neville Neville cared while he had
the seed bank. He gave a bunch of information. He was honest about when he lost certain strains
popped up on Mr. Nice a long time later in like Oh nine, uh, 10, 11 era. He asked a lot of
questions pretty directly. Yeah. Um, the drunkards and sensei are a black hole. Yeah. They don't tell
you shit. Major black hole. They don't care. And I don't know that they even know shit to tell.
Um, they, your son, obviously they do and they were part of, but I don't know that they would
have any kind of knowledge about any of the breeding going on at CINCI. And so, you know,
this is, um, so, so that's kind of, I guess we kind of segued into CINCI. Yeah. So we're headed
into CINCI. We're headed into CINCI. So Neville, you know, Neville had the seed bank, most famous
bank created a lot of the most famous strains gets busted, spent much time in jail, gets bailed out,
loses his company. Now he's head breeder at CINCI. Yeah. Um, and so it took some time to transition.
Yeah. So Matt and I have spent a bunch of time analyzing this and, um, I don't know the best
way to put it, but CINCI, there was certain famous things like NL five Hayes and a super skunk
that they left alone because the aim already had such great, uh, that's that, uh,
it had already been marketed under that name and was already so successful that they didn't have
a need to change. There's actually some pretty good comments happening. I'll get to them in a
minute. Maybe we can even shit. You can't see stuff. So, um, so anyway, well, this is, this
is super long winded, but it is pretty important. And the reason why it's so important is that the,
a lot, a lot, a lot of our famous strains and our named elite cuts from the nineties. And a lot of
the things that went into the famous cuts that we all work with today came directly from Neville's
work. Yeah. Because he was the biggest game in town. Um, probably from 1985 to the late nineties.
Um, he was the biggest force in cannabis. And so as a result of that, the tons of people in America
were getting his seeds and, um, and okay. So there's, there's stuff coming in that people
are saying that's actually pretty cool. So we'll start chatting about that. So, uh, so since he
buys the seed bank and they, in my opinion, they wanted to obscure exactly how much of the seed
bank they had taken. Yeah. And they wanted to trade. So like I said, super skunk and L5 Hayes,
some of the stuff that was super famous already, they left alone, but they were the first company
to start trademarking names in cannabis, which still goes on today and sucks. Yeah. Uh, there's
still battles going on about, about that. And so, uh, I see some stuff people are talking about
early Shiva shanty had garlic, but in it, anyone remember the early Shiva shanty that through
garlic Finos, uh, that type of, I have one of the catalogs that actually talks about that
specifically that very first catalog. I was just reading it to you. Yeah. So that's pretty funny
in the sense that my opinion is, is that Shiva shanty is garlic, but yeah, one of them is one
of them at one point was garlic, but you should. And so I'll try not to get too deep into it.
Cause it's kind of a, it's, it's kind of a nerdy subject, but if you look at the seed bank catalogs
and you look at the sensei catalogs, um, since he ended up using a lot of Neville's stock photos,
a lot of his verbiage and his descriptions, just much shorter versions of them in his catalog. Um,
so, uh, they, she garlic bud disappears, but it becomes Shiva shanty.
She was shanty one. And it sounds like a hybrid of become Shiva shanty too.
Right. And so they use the same, they use a lot of the same verbiage and describing Shiva shanty
as Neville's descriptions of garlic bud and the same picture. They use the exact same photo.
Okay. Um, another one that we could talk about is NL five skunk one becomes, becomes, uh,
Shiva skunk. Yeah. And that's actually the only one that they changed the name
that in the sense he description, they actually say it's actually NL five skunk one. Yeah. But
they still leave that in the description. It's literally in the description. They took it from
NL five skunk one. They called it Shiva. They called it Shiva. Yeah. This is something that
people will probably find extremely interesting. Um, or maybe, maybe not, but Neville's NL two F
three. He always referred to going back early as the NL two, any description you can find in the
seed bank catalog of any hybrids he made. Not only does he call it NL two, but he always calls it a
Hindu Kush type. Yeah. So when Northern lights gets ported over from the seed bank, Northern
lights one F three become lean Northern lights. Yeah. Right. Um, and you can actually tell because
they in the sense he catalog, they list Northern lights as a three time Indica winter. Yeah. 88,
89, 90, and you can look it up and NL one was the Indica winter and 88, 89, 90. Yeah.
And the little tail NL two becomes Hindu Kush. Yes. So since he changed the name, uh, and,
and NL two use the same picture, they use similar descriptions. You can go back. Um, even,
even straight up in certain stuff, like they, they sold a skunk Kush and they called it skunk
one by their best Hindu Kush. Yeah. Neville sells a skunk Kush at the seed bank and he calls it
NL two by skunk one. Yeah. They call it the same name. They have the same description,
except for, they just call it Hindu Kush. Yeah. Right. So NL two doesn't disappear.
It just gets a different name. Yeah. It's absorbed differently.
Is that there was another seed company that stole NL two and they sold NL two was Dutch passion
and they NL two under the name Oasis. And then, um, Adam dumb, I think his name is,
he sold one is closet queen. That was also an NL two pure. So NL two sort of drops off as a name,
but it lives on in other names. And that's sort of art of, uh, that's sort of the start of, um,
the rename game. Yeah. This is all the real early rename game. So I'll just read off some
renames for you guys. Let's hear the renames. Uh, I got, I got to look away at the camera so
I can actually like see this little chart I got going on, but Neville called it silver Pearl by
Hayes. Uh, since he calls it silver Hayes, yeah. Um, garlic bud becomes Shiva Shanti.
Uh, like I just said, and all one becomes Northern lights and L two becomes Hindu Kush
big skunk, which was big bud by skunk one at the CFA simply becomes sensey skunk. That's right.
Hash plant by NL one by Swazi becomes African queen. That's my other nickname that a lot of
people call me African queen big bud by NL one simply becomes big bud Hawaiian Indica by NL one
simply becomes Hawaiian Indica. Yep. Um, it was really only a few of the most famous like skunk
one, uh, you know, NL five Hayes, super skunk that, uh, that kept the name. Yeah. They changed
everything else, but they left us clues because they were fucking lazy. Yeah. Out of laziness,
pure laziness. They use the same pictures and they use a lot of the same verbiage. Yeah. And
they even kept the same yields and harvest harvest times and other data that Neville included. Yeah.
Um, so they made it, so they made it, uh, and then they trademarked those things. Yes. So
then all of a sudden they own the trademarks. Yep. Right. Um, let's see where, where's a good
segue from that? Um, I can't even bring up my notes. No, you're right. So Shiva, like I said,
Shiva Shanti, it is garlic, but yeah, it uses the same verbiage in the description. It uses the exact
same photo from Neville catalogs. It is, it is the garlic, but I had that pulled out earlier
just to show to the two side by side, but I can't remember where I put it. It's yeah, we don't, I
mean, it's, it's, it's, we could, we could, uh, we could go, we could go in depth. I'm trying to
keep it relatively brief, but the point is, is that since he was trying to obscure just how much
they went from a little company that had barely anything to the biggest company,
um, the biggest company in Holland and, um, the timeline we're talking right now, this is 1991.
Yeah. Uh, this is, this is early to mid nineties. Mr. Nice is I'm just answering a question. Mr.
Nice is way, way later. We probably won't even get to that part of cannabis today. Cause that
didn't start early two thousands. So Neville's working as the head breeder for, um, for Cenci.
And we're not going to talk about these companies very much, but it's probably good to mention
that Neville not only spawned since he seeds, but everybody working for Neville
got their own ideas and he spawned a lot. Yeah. So I don't know if, uh, um, well, yeah,
somebody just posted Shiva Shanti is not garlic now. Uh, it was sweet. We'll get to why things
aren't the way they are anymore. Yeah. But Adam Dunn from TH seeds, uh, uh, does that,
Adam, Adam from TH seeds, uh, Simon, who is famous for serious seeds. Yeah. Tony,
who ended up making SAG Martha, they all worked at Cenci under Neville. Yeah. And they,
after leaving, uh, Tony and Simon started cerebral seeds in 1994 for one year.
And then Tony made SAG Martha, uh, Simon made, um, serious and, um, you know, and, uh, uh,
let's see. And Adam, like I said, made THC. Yeah. Um, you know, so Neville working with Neville,
you know, uh, Neville sort of put all four of those companies on the map.
Yep. Those companies would have existed if they hadn't been able to work either for Neville
under Neville, uh, since he bought Neville. Um, so, you know, and I think that for most of
Neville's time at Cenci, he was breeding and doing a bunch of projects, but, uh, you look at
the catalogs that come out from those nineties and those early to mid nineties period. And
it's basically the seed bank catalog. Yeah. Basically, you know, there was a few things
that Neville got rid of at the later era of the seed bank. Like he didn't really like Afghani one.
Yeah. He sold it for the first few years of the seed bank. And then he, and then he eliminated it
since he brought it back. Um, there was a couple other strains that, uh, that popped up here and
there, but for the most part, um, since he was the seed bank continued and, uh, they, they absorbed
all of his history, you know, they started claiming her from 85. They started the originator
of all these various strains sort of like, you know, since they bought it, they bought all the
history too. Um, and all that. And so Neville was working for some, uh, some Dutch businessmen
that he didn't really like. Yeah. That's how it ends up. Yeah. So, um, so he worked for Cenci
and we can, since nothing much changed from the seed bank to Cenci, um, we don't really have to
talk a bunch about that except for, uh, you know, I started going to Amsterdam in 1994. There's some
very famous people on IgE and stuff that started going in the early nineties and mid nineties and
stuff. And since he was one of the primary places where we got things. Yeah. So, you know, um,
Cenci was really Neville. Yeah. It was all his stuff. He was their head breeder still.
Um, and, uh, you know, and so, you know, Neville from, you know, 85 to 90 at the seed bank. And
then from 91 to 95 at Cenci, um, you know, a massive amount of super skunk and NL five Hayes,
all the NL five Hayes, you know, of the Cuban black, the PIF, the Heights Hayes, the various
the Miami that all came from that era of, uh, you know, NL five Hayes seed. Um, and he, uh, you know,
they lost the G 13 cutting by Neville's own admission in about 93. It was one of the ones
that got sick and died early. Yeah. Lost the NL five Hayes cutting, um, 94, 95.
It's one of the reasons why all the best Finos of NL five Hayes and, um, and in, uh, uh, America
were found sort of between 89 and 95. Yeah. Um, and then once the, once the mom was lost,
uh, people didn't really find the same quality. I don't think I think all the named elites
of NL five Hayes of which there's probably eight or 12. Yeah. There's a lot. They all
come from that six year period. Yeah. I don't think there's any that come later than that.
I doubt it. I haven't seen any good NL five Hayes cuttings in a long time.
And so, um, you know, uh, so well, maybe we'll tie a bow on the sensey thing because
we've, we've kind of covered most of it. Yeah. The, uh, the last famous thing that never Neville
did there was he was working on this hybrid, um, which was NL five Hayes, uh, or people call it
C five. Now it's still alive. He had this very famous mother cut that was sold in all the coffee
shops. It was one of the two of his two favorite C five cuttings. Um, and he was trying to play
around and make a poly hybrid and he was playing with crossing it to skunk Hayes. Yeah. And he
wasn't really happy with where it was yet, but Ben and Alan drunkers being, uh, uh, businessmen,
they had spent a bunch of money and they were sponsoring the 95 cannabis cup and the cannabis
cup was all about Jack for air. And it was all about his life and his history and his contributions
to cannabis. And so Ben went to Neville and said, Hey, we want to release a Jack for rare. Yeah.
I have something that we drop at the cannabis cup. Wouldn't that be a great marketing tool?
Yeah. These the number one sponsor of this cup. We're spending a bunch of money. It's all about
Jack. How about we release? Yeah. So what ready? Um, as far as Neville was concerned, but he
released NL five Hayes by skunk Hayes and they called it Jack career. Yeah. I doubt we need to
spend very much time talking about Jack rare, uh, because it's super fancy. It's Jack. Yeah.
It led to Cindy 99, you know, it led to a whole bunch. It was big yielding. It was fast. It was
chunky. It was a trimmer's dream. Uh, it was, it smelled like, uh, terpenelein. Uh, it's,
it's, people have a, a love and hate. A lot of people have dislike for that aroma.
The Jack aroma became infamous for, uh, you know, being something that repelled people
and stuff like Jack Terps. That's when we said, yep. Jack Terps, Jack.
Yeah. People know, genuinely know what genuinely speaking, know what, uh, or generally speaking,
know what Jack Terps are. I think the first time that people ever heard about the word
terpenelein long before that Terp was identified, he called it Jack Terps. Yep. Jack Terps. Jack,
Jack was a super high yielding, uh, you know, strain. A lot of people grew it and that was
people's first experience with extreme terpenelein. Um, and it, it bred dominant.
Very Matt can talk about trying to get interesting phenos out of terpenelein dominant strains that
don't give you terpenelein. It's pretty tough. It is very tough to breed with terpenelein,
anything and try to infuse that into a lot of Jack Terps, train wrecked Terps. Yep. A lot of
breeders have, have thrown their hat in the ring and tried to breed with a lot because it's such a
vigorous, powerful, high yielding fun plant. Yeah. And it's real hard to find a not terpenelein
dominant pheno that works. I think, um, in, in modern times though, people are finding out that
terpenelein is actually really good in extracts. It makes them very flavorful. So there's been a
little bit of a Renaissance for the terpenelein Queens out there. So maybe, um, maybe since you
can't see anything, maybe we'll pause. You want to answer some questions? Yeah. Go ahead and figure
out what questions we need to answer and let's do it. So the number one voted thing, and we talked
about it a little was why was Sam's never able to produce a haze to rival Neville's? What was the
outstanding difference? That's the number one biggest question. Yeah. I think, uh, I think you,
you, you've, uh, answered this before when I was talking with you about it. So go ahead.
Um, I actually think I mentioned it mostly a little earlier in the program, but, um,
we don't know why Sam, you know, Sam sold haze to positronics. If you bought haze from the
flying Dutchman, that was Sam's haze. He sold clothes of wholesale seed to any number of
brokers in Holland, and then they sold it through their seed bags. And for whatever reason,
uh, everybody in Holland wanted Neville's haze hybrids and nobody found anything that rivaled
what Neville was able to find. Um, you know, and a lot of times, uh, Caleb, uh, CSI, myself, Matt,
others, we always talk about like the proof is in the plants. Yeah. You know, people lie, plants
don't, uh, and whatever reason, maybe it was sheer luck. Uh, maybe it was Neville's story is true.
And he did get earlier haze than, than Sam produced later. Maybe Sam has been open,
which is something that I found, um, which is I found, uh, uh,
hard to believe to be honest, as a breeder is he loves haze to do. And, um, he never,
ever made any selections. And he just, he just said, all I did was open pollinated to keep it
as wide as possible for 30 years. Yeah. He didn't do any selection work, any line work on it.
I, as a, as a breeder, never, ever playing around with your favorite phenos from your favorite line
seems really unusual to me. Yeah. Yeah. It is. It's like me never fucking with blueberry,
you know, but, but that's what Sam says. He, and it's also possible. So we can talk about this for
a second. Sometimes when you open pollinate, that's great because you open it up wider,
but that means it might be a hell of a lot more effort to dig stuff that you want. And so,
and by repeatedly open pollinating it and never making any selections, um, he might've open
pollinated his way into jungle weed or hemp, or he might've lost a bunch of the quality that led
people to love haze in the first place. Well, you look at, um, like Tom Hill's haze, um, he would
even say, you need at least 10 packs, you know, a hundred seeds to find a single keeper. So the,
the, the repeatedly oping probably didn't help anything because obviously there's so many
phenotypes, even in positronics haze that's been worked. There's so many phenotypes that you need
to pop a hundred to find a single one. Yeah. I mean, Sam has claimed that everyone got the exact
same haze and no one got any different. Yeah. I find that a bit hard to believe because there's
lots of people that bought flying Dutchman haze. There's lots of people that bought posse haze.
There's tons of people that bought, uh, Tom Hill haze, uh, haze has been sold for decades in a wide
breadth of places. And all the elites that people hoard come from Neville stuff. Yeah.
For whatever reason. Yeah. And you would think that we have a lot of quality Afghans out there
and you'd be able to cross some pure haze to some other good Afghans and get all the results to
Neville. Um, but the G13 haze and the NL5 haze and so on and so forth, no one's been able to
replicate. Yep. Those ones are better. And then Neville did also have the, uh, theory that he
talked about much later on that he only believed in breeding with haze males,
that that was the key to finding the, the, the, the whole URL haze was through haze males breeding
and not using them as females. You know, some of that might be that he'd lost the two best phenos
of females in the eighties. Yeah. That's what he ended up doing. I would also say too, that
collecting pollen from some 18 or 20 week haze male, and then dusting it on other plants when
appropriate is probably a lot easier of a breeder, uh, aspect than trying to wait for a 18 or 20
week female to be the appropriate time to pollinate it. That's a good point. So there's something to
be said for the fact that you could collect a bunch of pollen and then dump it on stuff later.
Yeah. It'd be much harder to breed with the girls. Yeah. So, um, there's another question.
Mean, Jean recently mentioned that you and he have been doing some research and it looked like
Hindu Kush could most likely be a renamed NL. I think we chatted about that already at length.
Yeah. I, I definitely believe that the Hindu Kush that was sold at Sensi is just NL2. Yeah. Um,
have I had any dealings with Gypsy? Nope. I almost did. And, um, and it was just a really
bad proposal for me to front a bunch of seeds. He said that he would sit on the money for,
I want to say six months to a year, at which point he would pay you out mostly in credit,
store credit. So you would wait like almost a year to be able to use anything from any,
it was stupid. It was no way in fucking hell. Well, we'll have podcasts that deal with Gypsy's
era of seed bags at some other time. Maybe not necessarily a ton of him specifically,
but he's from a different era than we're discussing today. Sure. Sure. Sure. Um,
outside of the work that Neville brought to the world, who outside the original big names
contributed most new strains worth something to the culture early on. That's a pretty good
question. See, I've mentioned some of before, um, I'll just associate some names with strains.
Uh, Sam skunk man brought a haze and skunk one to Europe or popularized it to people.
Uh, Jim Ortega, who's a very mysterious character brought Hawaiian Indica, garlic bud,
a maple leaf Indica and cush four to Neville. Those are all used extensively in projects. And
so became very famous building blocks. Uh, Mel Frank, uh, who's still quite well known.
Yep. He contributed the Afghani one and the Durban poison two things. Uh, I don't know if
we're his Cervantes. Uh, I don't think he directly contributed anything, but he did make the links.
He, he certainly connected Neville, um, uh, growers in Oregon and Washington that led to
the hash plant and G 13, which obviously entered into the pretty legendary status. Um, Rob Clark,
who wrote marijuana, bought me a hashish and some other really important cannabis books.
He contributed a bunch of, um, you know, California orange, um, various Mexicans,
various sativa crosses. Uh, he's certainly brought early girl, early Pearl type of stuff. That's all
accredited to him. Um, I'm trying to think of, you know, that's sort of those, those names right
there are sort of the backbone and the NL guys, the Seattle Greg certainly NL and the NL group
from the Pacific Northwest. They contributed obviously all the NL lines. And so, um, there's
a number of people we don't know who they are, but those guys are sort of the foundational,
um, people that brought a lot of stuff that ended up not only getting brought over there,
but ended up getting used a lot and into a lot and Dawn downs for NL too.
Specifically. I believe that was his. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, there was a guy named Herbie
that contributed the NL five. Um, you know, I'm sure behind all these famous names are just like
a lot of things. There was probably a group of people, uh, or good friends and stuff that
contributed various things that their names have been lost to time. Uh, you know, if I,
if not so dog and Matt could turn back time, what would you buy? Uh, well, you know, uh,
I would buy everything from the seed bank, everything, literally everything you could.
I would buy hundreds of seeds of everything that I could, all the Durbin, all the skunk one,
all the NL five Hayes, the app, the maple leaf mix. Um, a lot of these things we talk about.
Um, but you know, Neville was one of the few people that got to run through hundreds or
thousands of even of these seeds and really see what was in there. We talk about the famous Finos,
but, um, you know, uh, we were really young when these things were out there.
I was like six, seven. I'm a little older than you, but even still, like I said, I was, I was
only 18 in 1994 when I started going. So I was even sort of catching the tail end of certain things.
Yeah. Uh, let's see there. The next question was Afghan tea. What's known about it, the strains
that was used in geographically, what part of Afghanistan did it come from via who, et cetera,
et cetera. So I'm going to preface this. I'm going to preface this, all these people,
all these people talking about roadkill skunk and all the other stuff. I sincerely believe in,
in just from the work with, um, even the heirloom Afghani, the, uh, later sours,
the fucking super skunk and Jaisal, all that. I sincerely believe that's the direction of where
there are all these people chasing different directions. I think it's fair to, to put it
out there. So everybody's on an even playing field. That's probably the direction I'd look.
So, um, you know, uh, the Maple leaf, we don't, we don't know anything about Jim Ortega.
We don't know where any of the strains that he got came from.
Euro documented anything about he's still alive. Yeah. So it's possible that he could, um, come
out and tell some stuff. Uh, but it is a mystery. We know him too. We'd love to have him on.
We know, we know the story of his work basically as soon as he started trading the nevel.
Yeah. That's when he pops up and you know, the, um, we can talk a little bit about the Maple leaf.
So the Maple leaf Neville's talked about extensively. Uh, when he first started growing
it out, he started getting some sweet big bud types. Um, and then he started growing more of
it out and then he found some more like hash plant types, some dark hashy thick types. He called those
types Ortega. Uh, and then he started growing more out and then he eventually found what he
considered to skunk archetypes, which he called Afghan T and Afghan S.
And it's important again, because when most people hear skunk, they think skunk one,
he wasn't referring to skunk one types in this app yet.
No, he was just kind of a little bit of the structure, a little bit of the nose,
a bit of the look, that type of thing. And what he said about it is that, so obviously the,
the Maple leaf was kind of a, a hodgepodge of different phenos that popped out of Indica.
But what he found is if you took a big bud type and you bred with it, the Maple leaf, big bud type
bread, big bud, like, yeah, you took an Ortega type, the hash plant type, and you bred with it.
It's sort of ended up being hash plant. So they kind of bred true to type when they popped up.
If you bred with the Afghan T or Afghan S it also breeded true. So the T is pretty famous
in the sense that it is the mom of super skunk. He claims it's what put the funk in super skunk.
It's what crossing it back to its Afghan, you know, to an Afghan, the Afghan T brought out the,
the, the rank. It took a, it took a kind of a sweet floral skunk and made it reek.
Yeah. And so Afghan T is incredibly famous.
But it's probably the least well-known thing we're going to talk about tonight,
as well as being incredibly famous. It's the least well-known, but it's the mother of one
of the most famous strains out there. And possibly the reason why that strain was so hunted nowadays.
Yeah. Super skunk is probably one of the most well-known cannabis strains in the world.
And he says that that's what made it super. Yeah. Breeding the Afghan T.
Afghan T also crossed well with Hayes. And there's a thing called Afghan Hayes, Mr. Knight.
And that's supposed to be a, an half a maple leaf by Hayes C.
Yep. It's hard to verify, obviously, if that's the case, but we have documentation from Neville
that made super skunk and it, and it crossed great with Hayes C. Yeah.
So that's kind of that. There's some other stuff that I just answered the Jim Ortega question on
a different one. There's some Mendo Perp stuff. I don't know if it's pretty wide ranging.
Yeah. We discussed garlic bud pretty good. We discussed Hindu Kush, the Friesland
and Sensi Star and stuff like that. We'll get to on a different episode.
We'll certainly talk about those a little bit more.
You know, where they like to have been coming from the Seattle Greggs group.
All that. Was there a Sensi NL5 line in 89? There was not. No. There never was a Sensi didn't have
NL5 because in 89, the seed bank was still owned by Neville. And there was never a pure NL5 line
offered as far as I know. And there also was never a 1988 Sensi seeds G13 hash plant.
No. You can use the Mel Vanik's garlic Fino of NL5. I'll let Matt take that one if you want.
Okay. So no on that. Do we know if Neville's kids have knowledge on his father's work?
Yeah. His son has some knowledge of it. And I know his son and Neville's sister
are currently doing something. Any info on what Kush 4 is?
Not really. Like I said, Jim Ortega is still alive. He could maybe one day expound upon that
if he likes. A lot of rumor about it. There's rumor that the clone might exist. There's rumor
that the clone is not it. And it's a pure Kush variant. Yeah. A Bubba. NL2 type variant.
Hard to say on that level. This guy said, I got to try a maple leaf from an old timer in
Georgia. Unbelievable flavor. Almost like Dr. Pepper meets roadkill. That sounds good.
Yeah. That sounds delicious. When did the silver pearl that Pipworks come out?
I think we talked earlier. The silver pearl started being offered by Neville at the seed
bank around 88, 89. It was offered 88, 89, 90. It was one of the strains that got offered at
Scentsy later on as well. So it popped up. Is Steve Hagar just as guilty as Sam the Skunk Man,
aka Dave Watson from Operation Green Merchant? Who's Steve Hagar?
He's the guy. He's one of the big head honchos. Oh, high crimes. Yeah.
That's a whole subject. Could be a whole podcast in itself, so to speak, with all the rumors and
accusations. And there's a lot of people that believe one way. There's a lot of people that
believe another way. That's a pretty in-depth one. As far as Sam goes, a lot of people do say
that there is something to do with federal informants and stuff. I've looked up extensively.
I've never seen a damn thing come to light for any proof of any of that. But I will say Neville
told me specifically that he said, yes, everybody knew Sam and everybody knew his DEA handler that
walked around with him. But Neville also, during that time, Neville was telling me that him and
Sam were fucking making video meetings back and forth at each other. So I don't know how
reliable that information is. Yeah. Sam and Neville had famous beef coming from Neville's bust.
Those Kung Fu dub over video means that they would send back and forth at each other in 2009,
2010. They were, I wish someone still had them. They were fucking hilarious.
So, there was a friend of ours that mentioned Black Domina. We can touch on that real quick.
So Black Domina was something that in Neville's seed bank era, the vast majority of the stuff
that we were talking about in the 80s, and this is kind of the same with the super seed to keep
a seed club is they were basically all F1s or very simple hybrids. Yeah. That's kind of what
they were doing. They were crossing pure strains together. They were releasing lines of pure
strains they had gotten, and they were taking these pure strains like skunk and Northern Lights or
haze and skunk or, you know, and Northern Lights and haze and they were crossing them.
Yeah. In the 90s, the polyhybrid term started to pop where you started getting
more complex breeding coming in. So Black Domina was a cross of four indicas
that Neville, that they released that Neville bred while he was at Sensi.
And the mother was consistent. The mother was a, one of his favorite cuts. It was a NL1 by
hash plant or by NL1 to say it correctly, actually, because the NL1 was the dad. That was the mom.
And released three versions of it depending on the year. And one of the dads was,
I believe, Afghani1 by NL2. There was another dad that was Afghani1 by Ortega,
which is maple leaf. And there was the third and final dad, which I believe was the vast majority
of the seeds, but it's kind of hard to say. People wanted, with all these pure indicas being crossed
together, people wanted a larger yielding thing. And so he crossed that hash plant by NL1 to a
garlic bud by NL2. So Black Domina had three versions. Yeah. Three forms. Mom was always the
same. Dad varied as they played around with what to do. Yeah. It was just a really good name. So
they just fucking went with it. Yeah. It's a great name. I will say that of all my trips to Europe,
I lost it, sadly. But a Black Dominic pheno I found was one of the best things I ever got
out of Europe. I had a great, great, great variety of it. It tasted peppery. It was extremely frosty.
Yielded pretty nicely. It was dark, dark Afghan, not too leafy. Wasn't it fast too?
It was pretty fast. It was a great cut. I wish I still had it. It's one of my like
super regrets. We have some good friends that there was a rare 12 week pheno that was likely a
recessive garlic bud type that people really like. They call it the Lady Pheno. There was a lot of
good Black Domina. Black Domina popped. It was probably one of the best later things that Neville
did. Yeah. And so I don't know. We can. So we've probably been talking for a long time. I don't
know how long it's been going, but we'll we'll have an hour and a half. We'll tie it off with
we'll tie off Neville, at least with sort of the last phase of what he did and why that's
important, maybe. And then we'll call it good. We didn't get to everybody's questions. It'll be hard
to get to everybody's questions, but some of your questions might lead to more, you know,
more podcasts in the future. We might dive into some of these things and different ones.
Real quick. I got to do a giveaway. So whoever. Okay. Now, last time y'all motherfuckers, I said
whoever had the best question, right? Gets the giveaway. I'm going to do that again,
but please don't have four people message me saying that they were that person. It really,
it does get confusing. So we'll do a giveaway. What should I give away? Something that's
referencing something from tonight. Let's do the, the G13 and all two blue bonnets. Let's give away
a pack of that. So whoever had that top question message me. I will mention real quick. The, the,
there's a tie for the two highest questions tonight. Okay. So both of them went. And one
person said, can you describe the different growth structures, flower times, yields, flavor effects,
pros and cons of the different chem cuts, chem D, chem 91, chem CIS, chem four. We'll do a chem
dog episode. Won't touch that one tonight. I have a long history with chem. I got blessed and I got
to be one of the earlier people that got ahold of the chem 91. I've had the chem D since Oh six.
I've had the chem four for a long time. I have a lot of experience with them. We could do a
long talk about that. I promise you you'll hear more about the chem. The most political episode
we will ever do probably. Oh, that one. I mean, there's, there's other ones I think that could
cost him fire, but yeah, but we will, I promise you, we will, we will talk extensively about chem.
We'll, we'll be popping out these episodes pretty often. So you'll hear about it in the future.
So to tie off the Neville bit after answering questions is Neville was ticked off about
working under Ben and Alan drunkers. He wasn't into it anymore. And so he left in 95, 96,
and he partnered with a younger cat named Shanti. Shanti Baba, we won't talk about him extensively,
but he came to Europe in the early nineties and he popularized white widow, great white shark,
white Rhino things of that nature. He was also from Australia. He's a bit younger than Shanti.
He's sort of. And so when Neville left, then see Shanti Neville and this gentleman named Arjun
partnered at the greenhouse coffee shop, which should be pretty familiar to everybody that has
even a rudimentary knowledge of that. They usually the first seeds everyone buys post 2005.
Yeah. They, they, they had a very successful seed bank and they had a very successful series of
coffee shops in Holland. I went to them a bunch. And so basically at that point in Neville's career,
he wasn't as interested in breeding with a bunch of Afghans and stuff anymore. What he was really
interested in is continuing his Hayes work because that's, that's what interested him.
So like I said earlier about the Jack Verreer Neville, didn't consider that line finished.
He just released it under pressure from Ben and Alan drunkers to coincide with seed with the,
the cannabis cut. So after he left, since he, him and Shanti partnered together
and they started taking, they already knew what strains they had. They had two NL five hazes.
One of them was caught. One of them we call C five, which has been spreading around a little
bit in America now. And there's some people that are selling seed hybrids of it and stuff. It's
finally popped out on our side of the, of the world. And another one was called the one 22 or
the mango. Right. And they were trying to work out a poly hybrid using skunk Hayes
that would reflect the qualities of both. So they were parallel breed. And basically what they were
doing is old school breeding. That's a huge pain in the ass in which they were taking different
skunk cases and they were crossing it to these things. And then they were growing out the kids
and seeing if the dad through the traits they wanted. Yeah. So most people don't do that anymore.
As Matt can attest, that's a super time consuming pain in the ass.
The market doesn't let you have a strain in six years later, release it. You know what I mean?
Like you can't do it. It doesn't, it doesn't work in today's world, but they,
he had been working on that for a number of years. He kept working on it. And eventually they found
a skunk Hayes dad that meet their criteria. Neville preferred the line that you see five
is the mom. And that line became known as super silver Hayes. Uh, one, three cups in the late
nineties. Probably everybody knows about it. It's very famous. Yeah. Daunty preferred the skunk Hayes
dad crossed to the one 22 or the mango. My preference. That one got named the mango Hayes.
That's also my preference. I would actually, the, the one 22 is sadly not in America yet.
It is the nicest NL five Hayes I've smoked. Yeah. I'd love to smoke that. My personal favorite
out of the eight fives, the C fives, whatever. Not that I'm an expert on all of them or anything,
but I have in coffee shops and getting to know people over there smoked most of it.
That one's amazing. I bet. And I wish I had it. Mango Hayes is dang, but it lives and you can
buy it from Shanti still. Um, as the one 22 he it's, it's one 22 by Scott Hayes. It's called
mango Hayes. And then he also released something that was the start of his Holy grail project.
His Holy grail project was trying to recapture the magic of Hayes and an actual line and not F one.
Neville talked extensively about how he didn't like most of the polyhybrid Hayes is
nearly as much as the F ones. Yeah. So he was trying to figure out a way to do that.
And so what he did is he took a five, a five, two, which is on the cover. I don't know if Matt
wants to show it, but the eight five two is on the cover of the seed bank 89 and 90 catalog.
Both. He took the eight five to this ugly beast. He took the eight five to that one
and he crossed it to Hayes C and which is the famous dad that was used in almost all the
Hayes releases. So, um, that was the first time that the a dad and the C dad was crossed in the
same line. So it was 75% Hayes and 25% Northern lights. And they initially crossed it just to be
a personal breeding project as their Hayes grail, but they found so much killer stuff in it. They
decided to release it and they called Neville's Hayes. There is still a cut of that first find
in Holland. It is the strongest sativa I know of. It's almost like a, uh,
maybe the best way to put it is all those old school stories of psychedelic trippy,
hold onto your seat sativas that make you see tracers in the corner of your vision and make
like something's talking to you. Um, I kind of believe that was bullshit.
And then I smoked Neville's Hayes, uh, that Fino that they found that became famous. And it
literally felt like the top of my head blew off. I'm dead serious. I shared a joint. I did. I,
at that point I had, I had the chem 91, I had super skunk. I had a whole bunch of pretty potent,
nice stuff. I felt like the stuff we had in America was mostly superior to what Europe had
to offer. I went over there, I met a gentleman who used to work with Neville, became friends.
I smoked a small joint with two friends of the Neville's Hayes and it blew my head off. I mean,
it literally felt like, like air was rushing over the top of my skull. Yeah. I remember holding onto
the railing as I walked down the steps of the dude's house. I remember feeling anxious, stone
traces, rushing, uh, definitely feelings that I'm not used to in cannabis. Yeah. And so at that point
I realized that some of those old sativa stories had the, that were true that some people did get
a psychedelic, energetic, almost disassociative type of potent feeling. I don't care how used you
are to smoking, whatever Afghans you're used to. Yeah. I have a tolerance to Neville's Hayes and
you smoke some, you'll probably get knocked off your feet. You know, there was a person in the U.S.
and me and this guy, I don't want to say get along the best now, but, um, in all reality,
the best Neville's Hayes I've ever smoked has come from snow high. He had an amazing selection of it.
And I think he used it in some breeding work, but it was, uh, every spice you could imagine
in a kitchen cabinet all in one. And it was just, it was just so speedy. It was crazy shit. It was
really good though. It was unique. I don't recommend this, but if you smoke too much Neville's
Hayes, it feels kind of like psychedelic cocaine. Oh, let's just go do it. It feels, I mean, but
some people, some people feel like uncomfortable out of your skin, hot in the corner. Um, you know,
I get that from Afghanis, which is really weird. A lot of them. Oh, it really, it really, uh,
it really has a strange feeling. Um, I looked for that Fino and Neville's Hayes. I bought quite a
bit of seeds. I never found it. Um, luckily that Fino still exists. It's still sold in coffee shops
over there. There's still people that hold it on that side of the pond. Um, yeah. Panic attacks.
Uh, it, it, it was, uh, certain people don't like it. Yeah. I fucking hate rollercoaster weed. That
shit's don't, but it is, it's, it's very tasty. It's extremely potent. It hits you
extremely differently than most things. And it certainly was factual and I'm like, okay,
some of these people that are making these stories about ties and Columbians and how it made them
feel a long time ago, um, are true. Yeah. Because that, that, that cut has it in spades. Yeah. Uh,
it's 75% Hayes, 25% Northern lights. It's the first thing that crosses both Hayes dads, A and C in the
same line. It's nuts. Uh, I've been, it's one of my white rabbits. Uh, I've been searching for it
since the late nineties. I know where it exists. I haven't gotten it yet. I hope to get it. Hopefully
after this we'll have, I don't know, nine or 10 companies making crosses with it from the U S.
Yeah. I mean, now that we've mentioned it, everybody's going to have it all of a sudden.
So here's the crick, right? Is that thing takes like 16 weeks. Yeah. So it's a super long runner,
but it literally yields like three and a half pounds of light. Yeah. That's insane. So even if,
even if you, even if you were to take that 16 weeks and turn it into eight weeks, basically
like growing an eight week pound and a half a light strain. Yeah. But it takes twice as long.
Yeah. Um, you know, I, I saw, I saw a room in Holland. Uh, I'll tell this story, uh, before
it gets too late, but sure. I walked into a room, I saw a room in Holland that was all, uh, NL five
Hayes and Neville's Hayes. And it was one of the craziest things I've ever seen. They were growing
on a slanted floor with drains. They were growing in Rockwell croutons. Yeah. Rockwell's very
popular in Europe. Yeah. Um, they were growing in one gallon pots. There was thick, thick stems
growing out of these one gallon pots. They were on, they were on constant drip, slow and drip,
right. Draining out onto the floor. And these stems went trimmed up about six, I'm six foot three.
They went up over my head. The netting was about six and a half feet tall,
three feet from about six and a half feet to about nine or 10 feet. There was a mass jungle of
buds everywhere. And then six hundreds all over the place. Yeah. It was one of the more unusual
grow rooms I've ever seen. Was it all like vertical bulbs hanging in there? No, they were
just way up high. Okay. Gotcha. But it's like, so you look at the ground and there's these tiny
little one gallons of Rockwell croutons with these big thick stems coming out of the base that
went up more than me. And then right above my head, it just branched into crazy sativa arms.
Everywhere. And that's the, do it for the coffee shops. Um, so that these last two episodes,
we basically sort of walked you through Neville's main breeding era, which was 85 to 97, 98.
That's so super silver Hayes won three cannabis cups in a row. Uh, 97, 98, 99.
Most people have heard of Neville's Hayes, super silver Hayes, mango Hayes,
and sort of the last major breeding that Neville, not that Neville stopped breeding,
but he did some much smaller projects and collabs more with other people.
I was a bit more about that than I do, but, um, you know, Neville probably had a 17 year run.
Yeah. It's a good run in this industry of, of really great cannabis. Yeah. It went through
Steve bank. It went through Sensei. It went through the greenhouse. Uh, you know, he sold a
bunch of, we were not going to talk about that, uh, this episode, but he sold a bunch of his stuff
and gave a bunch of his cuts to Shanti. And then it continued at Mr. Nice seeds in Switzerland.
Um, and so that's kind of Neville's as far as his breeding work, that's kind of his arc
for lack of a better way to put it. Um, and, uh, you know, I don't know, that's probably
close to a good stopping point. Yeah. Um, so everyone, if you, if you want to get involved
in these conversations, I mean, there might be people in the chat room right now that are
actually a part of our Patreon that go into the discord and we discuss all this stuff.
A lot of these episodes that we are recording, we do a lot of those discussions publicly with,
uh, with each other, um, and in that chat room. So if you, if you're a fucking straight up straight
nerd, come join our Patreon, you'll enjoy it. Um, a lot of those other guys can testify to that.
Um, we also are going to start working on doing some old cannabis publications,
making those accessible for people, not like high time shit, but, uh, stuff that's off the
radar. You know what I mean? Um, that has a lot of old strain info, a lot of old pictures,
a lot of old growing info and all that's available through our breeder syndicate Patreon. So join up,
be sure to, uh, do that, make sure. And, and, uh, we put up the crowdcast links in the bio on
breeder syndicate for each new one. Be sure to sign up for each one. It doesn't send notifications
every time unless you sign up for it. So that's, uh, that's the housekeeping details, I think.
Um, I mean, the other thing we can say is we say this every time we have a discord server
that's breeder syndicate. Um, you can ask Matt and I questions. We're pretty responsive on there.
Uh, you know, we pop in fairly often. We're going to also be doing some shorts soon. Not
every subject requires an hour and a half or something like that. We're going to be doing
a series of shorts coming up five, 10, 15 minutes about various topics. Um, so sometimes your
question might not get talked about, but it might lead to a 10 or 15 minute short where we talk
about things. Uh, we hopefully have some pretty cool old school breeders that we're going to be
bringing on, uh, in the, in the future. We're going to be doing this on a regular basis,
both the shorts and the long and the long factor. It won't just be me and Matt.
Uh, some breeders are shy, some are busy, some are both. Uh, we're going to do our best to add
in some extra people and get, you know, pretty historical. So for all that you can reach us on
a Patron, you can reach us on this. The breeders syndicate is a damn tequila.
Patreon. Yeah. So, um, all that there's various ways you can get ahold of us. We want to keep
this kind of thing rolling. I hope it was interesting to everybody. I promise in the
future, Matt will talk more. Uh, they're sick of my ass. They love this. Yeah. So, um, but you know,
I thank everybody for listening. I hope you find it. I hope you thought it was cool. I hope you
learned some things and, uh, everybody, thank you very much for signing up and listening for
everybody that stuck with us. You have a great day. Peace, everybody.
