Welcome to Breeder's Synagogue.
What's up everyone?
Wasabi.
Hey, what's up dude?
How goes it?
Alright.
Alright, so everyone coming in, the Northern Lights 5 stock is up on the site for the Patreon
members.
So if you're a Patreon member for Breeder's Syndicate, you can go buy them right now.
Boom, they're up.
Some of you grabbed them already.
And yeah, so it's on Riot Seed Co.
If you are a part of the Patreon, you can buy the NL5 in the backstage area.
But now we can talk about more important shit like history.
Like, like, uh, what are we going to talk about, Natsu?
I mean, tonight might be a range of things, you know, I, uh, we can talk a little bit
about NLs a little bit.
And, uh, you know, how things survive from now to then, you know, we could talk about,
um, you know, we can, we're, we were thinking that we, we actually opened it up to some
suggestions and there was some things about some strains that got away.
There was actually some pretty good questions that came in.
So, um, we're going to try to tackle some of those, you know, uh, you know, throughout,
throughout the thing.
And then, you know, um, one thing that maybe I should start with is that, uh, you know,
we chatted about some chem history, some chem 101 and stuff like that.
And you know, whenever you, whenever you tackle like a sort of a big and famous weed history
segment, right, you're going to get a lot of debate, right?
Yeah.
Uh, which is good.
I like to master debaters, you know, and you want different people to be able to contribute
and you want people to come up and say things, but then you're always going to get people
that are, that are going to pick apart one section that they feel is incorrect or what
often happens.
And, uh, CSI and I are, we're actually talking about this last night is that, you know, on
some level when you want to figure out the history, it's like, which semi untrustworthy
person do you lean more towards?
Yeah.
Right.
And there's, there's an aspect of that where it's like, it's very difficult to have a situation
where you feel like one person is totally angelic and honest in every facet and this
is how it is.
And there's not debate.
So yeah, debate is good.
You know, um, this guy just said he met Don the Indian recently.
He's been dead for a while.
So there's an aspect to it where it was like you, anytime there's anybody famous or even
semi famous, uh, especially if, if it's, it's, it's hard to like determine who they
are, you're always going to get, there's not just fake cuts, there's fake people.
Oh yeah.
Right.
Or the second DJ short, you know, or yeah, there's, there's, you know, in any kind of
famous lineage, there'll be like an accepted story and there's one or two guys in the corner
screaming that it's bullshit.
And it all came from me or whoever, you know?
And so what you try to do is you try to like, you try to like corroborate information from
different people and you try to see, you know, and uh, you know, there's, there was an aspect
to it too, because one of the aspects about chem fam for instance, is that, uh, you know,
a lot of the most outspoken people when it comes to chem story, um, didn't have all that,
that much to do with it.
Yeah.
You know?
And then, so you get some people out of the woodwork and stuff like that and you get,
you know, and you try to tell a story and of course there's, there's parts and people
are going to remember things differently.
And that's not really the, that's not really the, the, that's not really an issue.
Right.
Because it's all about like, that's what science, right?
Science is right until it's wrong.
Yeah.
And then it adjusts itself to the new reality.
So like when you're doing history, it's not so much that you're wrong or you're lying.
If you get a part mistaken, it's that you might need more nuance.
So you might have, there might be some stuff that you don't say because you think it's
too out there.
Yeah.
And it's not corroborated enough, you know?
And um, and you know, and how do you do that?
And so like part of the, part of the thing we're trying to do with, with most of this
stuff is that we actually don't have a personal tie to any kind of like big profit motive
behind it.
You know, I don't have some like secret chem line that's all about to be released or anything
like that.
But there's an aspect of history for history's sake.
You know, history is most in cannabis right now, especially it's mostly oral.
Yeah.
It's not written down.
Yeah.
It's held by different people.
They often disagree.
They were often young when the history was being made and they often didn't know it was
history.
Yeah.
Like there's a bunch of people out there that were doing what all the famous kids were doing
back then that don't remember what they did either, but it doesn't matter because nobody
cares to ask them.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's been a big part of it.
You know?
Um, you know, and so, and so, you know, there's an, I just want everyone to know that like
this, it's not like when we talk about stuff, there's not, it's, it's definitely doesn't
have to be necessarily definitive.
It's always open for debate.
We're always open for new information and stuff like that.
And sometimes a lot of times what CSI and Matt and I and others do is we try to match
the story to what the plant tells us.
Yeah.
You know, there's a story where it's like plants don't lie.
Yeah.
Kind of thing.
Right.
So, you know, um, so I just wanted to get that out there first because, you know, there's
a Instagram and, and, uh, that's part of the reason why like these lives are cool is because
Instagram is actually like a really bad place to debate anything.
Yes, it is.
The comments are super short, at least on the forums, you could get out some paragraphs
or something, you know, and you could have a little bit more long form debate.
And Instagram is like a paragraph or less of basically like, you know, fuck you, you're
a dick.
Yeah.
That's, that doesn't match my money motive.
Yeah.
That doesn't, that doesn't match that.
You must have some old, and then most people think that you would act like how they would
act too.
So it's kind of, yeah.
Um, you know, it, it, it, you know, and the other part of it that's funny too, is it's
like you, um, you have an aspect to where it's like, and Matt and I talk about this
all the time where the claims of what people have, doesn't matter what family you're talking
about, they get earlier and earlier until they're, they actually predate the story.
Yeah.
And that's common too.
And almost every famous weed family.
Yeah.
It like, it gets earlier and earlier and people get access sooner and sooner until the generally
the person that's generally accepted to start it.
There's someone else that has it four or five years before that person.
Yeah.
You know, and, and so that kind of stuff is tough, you know, so I just, we're not going
to talk about that all the time.
I just thought, I just wanted to throw it out there in the sense that like, we definitely
are open for debate.
This is actually kind of like these chats are kind of like conversation starters, you
know, and we're trying to get information out there so that history gets debated, um,
you know, and whatnot, you know?
So, um, yeah, we call it pre pre that pre pre that pre pre and, and the, and kind of
the way cannabis is, is because you don't get taught by your parents mostly, or this
or that you come into cannabis when you come into it, there can be stuff that's like extremely
common knowledge 10 years ago that becomes rare info today.
Yeah.
You know?
So I mean, I just, we don't need to spend a ton of time on it, but, um, but there is,
there's a bunch of that and you can see it all the time.
There's blueberry before DJ had blueberry.
Yeah.
There's blueberry from a lot.
There's blueberry from Alaska that has nothing to do with that.
There's, you know, there's people that have cush way early, you know, uh, in different
States, there's people that can't.
So it's all, and it's like, you don't want to call people liars or mistaken.
And in some cases they might be lying, but in some cases they might just be telling a
story that they were told.
Yeah.
Or in some cases they've have Hawaiian OG and seventies.
Yeah.
Cannabis folklore is a good way to put it.
There's a lot of folklore.
There's a lot of legends.
There might be kernels of truth to the legends.
And that's not even saying that everything that I say is absolutely true.
Like there could be aspects of it where you're mistaken, you know?
And we tried Matt and I to, to like delineate, like when we went from what we think of as
like actual fact to like, now we're kind of like making educated guesses.
Yeah.
Speculation versus speculations.
Yeah.
You know, and, um, and so on and so forth.
So I just wanted to get that out there that this is definitely a, uh, sort of a venue
to start debate and to try to get some facts to debate about.
So you can, you can reach out to either one of us here on discord or wherever, uh, if
you want to keep it going or it sparks your memory or anything like that.
Just wanted to put that out there.
Uh, but we still haven't asked about the Maui dog.
I can talk about that super quick just because Maui dog is supposedly a bag seed that came
out of a bag of dog bud that was bought in Sonoma County, uh, right around the turn of
the century, 99, 2000 ish.
And they took it to Maui and they creatively named the S one or whatever it was that came
out of that seed Maui dog.
Right.
It's also confusing because I made super dog crosses with this other cut called the Maui
and those things got used and Mandelbrot's work and other work.
And that's also called, um, you know, Maui super dog and other stuff like that.
So, but that's all it is.
It's just a bag seed from supposed chem 91 bought around 99, 2000, and then they popped
the seed on Maui and then they crossed, someone crossed that to some skunk on Maui and that
became the skunk dog.
I think it was Molokai frost was what Grace Cole said.
Something along those lines, you know, some kind of Hawaiian skunk.
Yeah.
You know?
So, um, anyway, you know, that's kind of, that's kind of it.
And like, there's other topics that we're going to cover in the future that are probably
going to create even more debate than that.
You know, I would think so.
And there's an, anytime you get into a debate about something where people have the real
cut or they're selling seeds of this, or they have their reputation staked on anything,
they only want to talk about stuff that makes them look better.
Yeah.
It's the rare person that wants to discuss actual history.
Most people in cannabis history are interested in like burnishing their own legend.
Yes.
And so we're trying to do a little something different where, you know, we're not completely
just polishing ourselves the entire episode.
Yeah.
And for, for future reference, I don't have any tie to Kim because I would said that earlier
that I was trying to burnish my reputation with Kim.
I don't have any ties to Kim.
None.
We're going to talk about a bunch of stuff that we don't.
I mean, my, my personal tie to Kim has nothing to do with the creation of any of the famous
cuts.
It just so happens.
I became best friends with the guy that brought them West.
Yeah.
And so I ended up one of the few by just by sheer chance long before it was famous, you
know?
So that's kind of that kind of, yeah.
I mean, there are two Maui dogs.
Like I said, one of them is from my work.
That's Maui super dog.
And one of them is a potentially a dog bag seed cross to some skunk in Hawaii.
Yeah.
I think matchmakers also, right.
There's the dog and Maui dog.
One is Maui dog with one G I think.
And then there's the dog with two G's.
It's also, it gets even more confusing.
You know, it's very confusing.
It's very confusing.
I believe Maui dog was popped.
They said they popped it when they got back home.
So it probably dates from 99 or 2000 or something.
Yeah.
And the one thing I will actually say that leads me to believe that the actual straight
Maui dog could be an S one of actual chem dog is that, you know, I got to see a number
of rooms run by our buddy CSI.
There were all chem dog, 91 S ones.
And boy, does that Maui dog look like an S one?
Yeah, it does.
I mean, does that proof without genetic testing?
No, it's not.
But it did.
Boy, does it?
You could see a bunch of things in that room that looked very, very close to that cut.
And yes, there's also skunk dog.
Someone just posted it.
Yeah.
Skunk dog is a child of that cut.
Yeah.
And then the only, and the other part of it that may, that may be true is that three out
of the four people that I knew of at the time that had a chem dog in California were growing
it in the Sonoma area.
I had to build all over myself.
I was, I was in Southern Mendo.
Va was in, was in Sonoma then.
Our buddy from Staten Island was in Sonoma then.
So it's, it's, I mean, it's possible you could, someone could have bought a bag, you know?
So yeah.
So what's the first one we want to cover?
Do you want to cover the mom techniques or do you want to cover long lost strains?
We can cover, we could cover mom techniques first.
That's probably a little bit more concise of a topic.
So mom techniques are, you know, there's a, they've gotten a little bit more complex in
recent years, right?
Which we'll get to in a minute.
But basically the way I always did it was that, you know, if you want to start a new
mom I would, you know, let's say you're going to fill, let's say you're going to fill your
room with, with a run and your mom is getting kind of old and tired, right?
So you, you veg up your room.
And what I would do is that I would pick the healthiest, nicest, dankest looking vegetative
plant in the entire room to be my new mom.
Yeah.
The one that hurts your heart to not put in the bloom room because you wish that all of
them in the bloom looked like that one in the beginning.
Because you always want to start with the healthiest stock you can.
I believe that's in ag, it's called the cultivar cut.
And moms and plants can get beat up and it can take months or a season or two to get
them back to health.
So it's always key to keep, um, to keep moms like to keep the best stock possible.
Yeah.
I think.
Uh, the other thing that not everyone gets to do, but I've gotten to do for the last
couple of decades is, um, and Shanti does this too, which is kind of cool, is that the
sun goes a long way to healing plants.
So if it's possible for you in your area without being in getting in trouble or something to
put your plant outside with some artificial light in the nighttime and spring and early
summer and you give that plant two or three months of growing outside or in a greenhouse
and then you take cuts off it and bring it back in, that cut will be a lot healthier.
Yeah.
Um, I think some of that is mitigated now because when, when that tech existed, there
was kind of like two kinds of indoor lights, metal highlights and high pressure sodiums.
And both of them were pretty limited compared to the sun.
Yeah.
Now we've got ceramic metal highlights and plasmas and a lot more things that you can
get like a wider spectrum, you know?
So I think that makes, that makes a big deal.
And then they've talked about it before, but, um, one of the ways, like, especially with
all this dudding and stuff like that, that's been going on and, and byroids, people talk
about outgrowing the viroid where they try to take cuts off the growing tips because
it maybe hasn't moved all its way up to the plant.
And that was kind of accepted tech.
But now there's this wrinkle to it where they actually say that there could be more genetic
drift at the tips and the lowers might have less mutations.
Who says that?
Who says that?
I can show you some stuff after the show, but it's been coming out.
And so now there's like a little bit of a conflict of like, you know, less genetic mutations,
perhaps, perhaps lower down on the plant, but then more risk of disease if any exist
in the plant.
Um, but long-term maintenance is hard.
Uh, keeping these, these plants alive and keeping them happy and healthy for a long
time, uh, is tough.
And the larger of a collection you get, the harder it is to keep them all happy.
Yeah.
That's for sure.
So a lot of times it needs, yeah.
Matt can speak to this too.
Somebody like, you know, if you have a big collection and you're breeding all the time,
you might have 80% of your collection.
I don't want to stay in stasis, but like you're kind of giving it low light and you're not
trying to let it get out of control or grow all crazy.
And then the 20% of stuff you're going to take cuts off of and use in various breeding
projects you're boosting under better light.
Because if you boost everything under better light, it's expensive and then everything
grows way too fast.
And then you're hacking and slashing and training and doing a bunch of work just to keep them,
you know, they outgrow their pots, they outgrow their happiness level.
Um, you know, so mom rotation is a big thing.
Yeah.
I'm still a big fan of the, the 10 by 20 tray full of pearl light in the bottom, fucking
three foot tall clone mom.
Right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I've been guilty of that one several times, but it's just because it like, like he's talking
real easy way to keep things growing as slow as possible.
Uh, when you're doing it like that, because sometimes, yeah, if keeping moms doesn't necessarily
mean you're going to run, um, all of that clone stock, a lot of times you're just throwing
shit out because you backed up 10 or 20, uh, and you might only need mom, you might only
need three or four plants, but you take 25 cuts that you can.
And then, you know, I was talking to CSI last night and you know, I mean the amount of backing
up that he has to do versus like the collection that he has as far as moms versus the Fino
hunting that he's doing versus all that.
It's like, it can be kind of exponential.
Yeah.
It's almost like 80, like thinking back, it's like 80% of my, uh, actual stock that I would
keep would just be backups of moms.
And even counting the flower stock, it still seems like all I kept was constant backups
of moms.
I see our, I see our buddy radio ridge, uh, on here.
And a lot of this stuff that I'm talking about is trying to maintain moms, like in a house
inside, in a garage and limited space.
Um, obviously if you have, if you have a nursery or you have a greenhouse or multiple greenhouses
and you can use natural and artificial light, it gets a little easier.
Um, but a lot of Fino hunting on that's done in cannabis traditionally is a lot of space.
So that's a good question.
Thoughts on revengeing a plant, becoming a mom.
So I, instead of doing the outdoor thing that not so much talking about, I like to do the
revenge stuff and I, and I tended to do it anyways because you know, if I lost, you know,
clone stock of a mom that I just flowered out, what have you, or if something was, was
writing a lot slower than it, than it should be, it wasn't as resinous.
A lot of times I give it a revenge and it would just give it that little bit of a boost.
So I, I, I, but I run my, my bench at 24 hours, like all the time.
So it's really easy for me to revenge.
You know, somebody is talking about genetic drift off the main street.
That's part of the issue is that cannabis is just starting to get studied in certain
ways.
Um, so there's a lot of new information coming out and some of our traditional techniques
are going to come up against studies and science and, uh, you know, we're gonna have to see
how it all plays out.
Um, you know, I, I always try to take a, when it's, when it comes time to re-vegging for
me, I don't really revenge.
I revenge until I can take fully in vegetative, healthy cuts.
And then I start over.
So it was a good plan too.
But revenge is great.
It just, it just takes a while.
Sometimes one of the techniques that breeders also use is sometimes like when you're Fino
hunting, you, um, you might take a bunch of cuts like two weeks into, into bloom and
you went, you ended up going in there and cleaning up a lot of the lowers, which you
have to strip out anyway.
And you use those as cuts and then they freak out for four to six weeks.
Yeah.
But that's actually helpful because it slows down the process and they don't get too big.
Yeah.
Because if you can't take a ton of perfectly healthy cuts right before you flip, you might
have to take cuttings multiple times before you're even done with the cycle.
Yeah.
If you're trying to keep them small and contained, you know?
Yeah.
So, um, and there's writ, I mean, the, the euros are really big into revenge.
Uh, they would do things like they wouldn't keep any backstock of anything.
And then when they found flowers, they like, they would take that month, that plant out
of the room and re-veg it.
Yeah.
That's a gamble.
I mean, it is easy to revenge for me because of the 24 hours thing.
I never really, really lost a lot of plants and re-vegging, but I also was a big fan of
keeping as much bud on the plant, um, for re-vegging because bud would grow out of every,
I mean, uh, the revenge nodes would grow out of every single spot on that bud.
So the more bud you keep, the better the chance you have.
And a lot of people don't like that trade off of like not being able to, you know, cut,
cut bud off and spoke it and do all that.
But when it comes to a revenge, sometimes it's a one outweighs the other.
And my Matt might disagree with me on this, but if I had an inkling that I might want
to re-veg ever, I would typically leave all the lowers on.
Yeah.
So then I could chop the plant way back and take all the well-formed buds off and leave
all the LARFy funky stuff is the new tops and they're not as far into bud as the rest
of it.
So it's not as long of a process to get them to snap back and go back into flowering.
Yeah.
I mean, so, so what people understand what we mean by revenge, just so we get a clear
two, I'm sure most people understand it, but when you, when you flip, uh, you take a, a
vegetative plant and you flip it into bloom, um, that light cycle releases a horrible whole
bunch of hormones, right?
Right.
And those hormones are there to like make the plant produce flower and do all the various
things it's going to do in bloom.
Well, if you stop that process and you throw it back into veg, it's got to work all those
hormones out of itself.
Right.
And that's where you get, you'll get a lot of like single blades, three leaves, a lot
of very funny looking growth for a while.
And you kind of know you're out of it when your plant starts throwing very normal leaf
structure, uh, without any pistols or any kind of weirdness like that.
And it can take a few months.
Yeah.
Usually it does.
It can take a few months.
Um, you know, and the, and the more large you leave on the bottom, the easier it is.
Yeah.
I'm not saying it's impossible, but it is harder to get things to revenge out of main
buds.
Yeah.
I mean, I, I usually get a pretty good healthy growth out of all the bugs.
From my perspective, maybe I should rephrase it is, uh, you get less rot.
Yes, yes, that's for sure.
Because you might end up having to go out there and cut out mold because now you've
got this like overripe flower that's trying to figure out what it wants to do.
Maybe it's dense and you're trying to get vegetative growth to come out of it.
And then the bud is rotting around the vegetative growth and you're cutting stuff out.
And so, you know, I mean it, there's a lot of ways around it.
Um, and you know, just not, not lonely that like not all strains act the same either.
That's for sure.
So um, yeah, you know, the, the killing of the fun, the funny thing we always joke about
is like the, the cuts that don't make it in the backup.
Those are always the favorites.
Yeah.
That's, that's genuine.
Generally how it works.
That's how the, the one that you're like, oh my God, this one is amazing.
And you've got like 75 cuts saved and you lost three and it's one of the three.
That can be very frustrating.
You know?
Yeah.
So yeah, you know, but that's mom maintenance is basically like you can only leave a plant
in a pot for so long.
Um, there's a, there's an arc of health that happens kind of.
Um, and you can get plants on the upswing and on the downswing.
Um, sometimes when you're revegging, I should throw this out there sometimes up potting
the plant and giving the root mass, especially if it's like you pulled it out late, um, giving
the plant a bunch of fresh soil to grow new roots into versus like stuck in the same pot
that it's been kind of root bound a little bit tends to help.
Do you ever do any root trimming, root ball trimming?
Um, I don't usually bonsai my shit.
No.
Uh, sometimes I, every time I've done it, I've just fucking trashed plants.
Like I've tried it.
Like, you know, I mean, bonsai is one thing, but fucking trimming up the root ball.
I always fucked that up.
Always.
I cannot trim roots and keep shit alive.
I do.
I mean, I do think that like when you're transplanting, I do like to take my hands and rough up the
edges because unless you're growing in like certain kinds of air prune pots, the, a lot
of the pots tend to, the roots tend to chase each other's tail.
Right.
And so you want to break that up so they, so they shoot out new shoots essentially.
I'm talking about taking them and like if they're in a fucking five gallon pot, trimming
the fucking root ball down to like a fucking three gallon.
Have you ever done that?
I have not done that.
I've seen people take like bread knives and like shave, you know, I just generally rough
it up on the outside and on the bottom as much as I can and then pop it in.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And that doesn't mean it might not work, you know?
Um, you know, so there's, I mean, if that's kind of bonsai techniques, right?
Yeah.
I did a lot of bonsai in apartment growing, but I never could get the root mass shit down
ever.
Yeah.
You know, bread knife, that type of thing.
But I mean, you know, generally speaking, I would say everyone has different opinions
on this and it depends on what you're using your mother for.
Um, but you should replace a mom every six to nine months as a general rule, you know,
and always, always, always keep the healthiest plant.
Yeah.
Boosting the end.
Like obviously if you're not flowering at the point, at the point where you decide that
you want to re-vegetate plant, you're no longer feeding it for flower.
You're feeding it to be brought back to a vegetative state.
So at that point, feeding it more in cow mag, all that shit helps a more balanced meal
than as opposed to like a flower mill that's low nitrogen.
You definitely want nitrogen.
And it's going to, it's going to freak out and look weird for quite some time.
Yeah.
So you have to have some patience, you know, you definitely have to have some patience
with the revenge, but it's a, it's a useful technique.
It's a space saving technique, just like anything else that has its own risks, you
know?
Um, you could be, you could be bringing pests from your flower room that don't exist back
into your mom.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That could happen too.
Yeah.
Um, but yeah, I mean, mom maintenance is, you know, it, uh, it takes a while for moms
to, uh, to build up the right kind of cuts, you know, and you kind of start with like
a small plant that can give you one or two cuts and it kind of takes a few months of
training a plant to get like, this plant's going to give me like a room's worth or I've
built my plant up to X.
So it really does depend on what your goal for the plant is.
I mean, I have a bunch of plants and a lot of them, I only need a few cuts off of every
now and again.
Yeah.
And it doesn't do me any good having them in a giant 10 gallon pod and as tall as me.
Yeah, no, not at all.
You know, but people let it get that way.
And then sometimes it's really tempting for a grower.
You see a mom getting super healthy and you don't want to beat that the top of the tar
out of it.
Yeah.
You want to let it boost, you know?
So while we're talking about mom health and, and, you know, taking cuts, backing up cuts,
what's one of the ones that you've lost in that kind of situation where you were trying,
you thought you had, you know, clones of it backed up maybe and have one mom flowered
out and realized you were fucked?
I've lost all kinds of plants.
Yeah.
It would be hard to pick just one.
I'll start maybe like general and then we can go into specifics.
Yeah.
I think people, even most of my friends have always just wanted to bloom whatever was popular
at the moment.
Yeah.
So it's easy to get Pete, like when, when, when it was the diesel craze or the purple
craze or whatever, it was easy to get friends to back up or go or Mendo P or sour or something.
And then the market changes and they're not growing it for the market anymore.
And you're trying to get them to hold onto something for you so it doesn't get lost and
they don't want to give up the space.
Yeah.
There's a lot of people that try to have the smallest veg they can get away with.
Yeah.
You know, and it makes sense.
I mean, veg doesn't make them the money.
No, it doesn't make them the money, you know?
And so I'm not even, I'm not even dissing them on it.
I'm just saying that like, that's kind of how it is.
And so you end up trying to like share things with people that you hope that they love it
enough that you can get it back from them.
Yeah.
And that's how a lot of these fakes and how a lot of these issues start is you have a
real cut.
You move on to do some rooms of something else and then you go to get it back and it's
not it.
Yeah.
Or they killed it or they were worse at it than you were, you know?
And so a lot of things got lost that way.
People break up, have exes, you know, that mess things up.
You get depressed, you move, you have accidents, you have a fire, you get busted.
You know, there's a whole host of ways where you lose things.
Yeah.
And I think every old older grower, every collector, every breeder has probably a list
of shit that they wish they still had.
Yeah, I would think so.
I mean, I have a bunch of stuff that, you know, I was fucking around with when I was
in my early and mid twenties that I wish that with my current experience I had right now.
Yeah.
Don't you?
Yeah.
There's a there's a bunch I mean, especially during the Mooney one where I handed over
my whole collection.
Yes.
I'm one of us.
All of it.
One shot, you know, luckily, luckily, most of that I was able to get back from other
people that I backed it up with.
But there was still a lot in there that were my own personal selections of my stuff that
never see again.
And I'm sure that's probably one of the more common occurring things for breeders is to
lose their own personal selections quite often.
I would imagine.
And the market changes and the what people want to grow changes.
Yeah.
And you end up chasing something and, you know, and then you can't.
I mean, look at right now, like, you know, I talked about it on a previous show, but
it's like sour was the most popular strain in America for over 10 years.
Yeah.
And there's massive debate on who's got the real.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And it turns out that most of the people that have it didn't keep it when it was unpopular.
Yeah.
And they tried to get it back when its popularity came back.
Yeah.
You know, I had a bunch of friends that had the Trinity and we all lost it.
And I spent 15 years looking for it and we kept getting it back and it kept being fake.
Yeah.
Or a hybrid.
Yeah.
And there's stories like that over and over and over again.
What's one of your white whales in terms of something that I lost or in terms of something
that I want, something that you've lost that you wish you still had?
I had probably next to the Maui.
The best thing I ever found in Amsterdam of all the pops that I did was I found an amazing
black domino.
Yeah.
It was peppery.
It was frosty.
It was extremely potent.
And I still think about it.
Was it one of the purple ones?
It was not purple.
Oh, it was darker.
Yeah, it was darker, but it was not purple.
It was very beautiful.
It had a really nice kind of long running cola.
I didn't at the time even realize there was like three or four versions of black domino.
Yeah.
I think they made that apparent.
No, it wasn't really apparent, but I bought it direct from Sensi in late 90s.
Yeah.
And I had the Warlock.
I really liked the Warlock a lot.
Magus seeds.
Yeah, I really liked the Warlock a whole lot.
I lost the Super Skunk.
Yeah.
You know, I've lost most things here and there.
Luckily I share and I don't hoard and close friends have held it, but I haven't been able
to find the Super Skunk since.
Yeah.
And, you know, Skunk VA and some others and stuff.
We've been hunting for it for a long time.
And the cough I should I saw the cough lives.
Yeah, the cough.
Cough to the cough.
The cough.
I don't know about if the cough to lives.
Isn't it?
I thought this was the cough to maybe we could ask homie if he's on here.
But I think.
Yeah, I think it's cough.
And I think cough, too, is the one that's gone.
But, you know, one of the things about that is that, sadly, if you're I don't know if
I don't know who made that comment or where they're located, but.
You know, it the the NL five cases have not been nearly as possible or popular on the
West Coast as they are on the East.
Yeah, that's for sure.
So they don't get circulated very much.
The stuff that got circulated on the West Coast was more jet was more the polyhybrids,
the jacks, the super silver hazes.
Yeah, those are big.
The really famous there is cough to is gone.
That's what I thought.
So cough to is the one.
Yeah.
So, you know, so a lot of the really famous ones.
The only the only famous one that really made its way to the West Coast was when the electric
boogaloo got renamed the dog shit.
Yeah.
That one's on the West Coast.
All the other famous cuts started and stayed somewhere east of the West Coast.
I think even like one of the versions of the San Diego campus is like a super sober haze.
You saw a lot of that, but not yeah, not a lot of the NL five days.
Yeah.
And somebody just asked, you know, how did I lose the super skunk?
I got in trouble.
Yeah.
And they didn't let me keep anything.
Yeah.
He got caught at the rest stop.
It was a real fucked up.
It was a messed up.
Yeah.
It took my law.
It took me.
I got the vast majority as far as clones go.
I got the vast majority of what I lost that day back.
I did not.
The super skunk has been gone forever since the super dog, which was my buddy and I's
project and blend super skunk and and cam together.
That was gone.
The black domino was gone.
Other things like the flow rider and the Mendo P and, you know, the the headband and
sours and stuff like that.
I had those I had enough stuff spread out that it eventually all came back to me.
But there was some stuff that was half a dozen things that got lost.
You know, but it does it does force you to move on and go down different avenues, which
I think is always a plus.
Yeah.
And I got we I got from another mutual friend of ours.
We got what we thought was the super skunk back.
And then I got evacuated and I lost it in the 17 fires again.
So Jesus Christ.
Yeah, it sucked.
I damn it.
I thought I literally drove out of that property with like the L.A. between my legs and the
Kendi by my feet and dog cutting right next.
I mean, I had like six one gallon pots, you know, and that's what I could fit as I fled.
That's fucking wild.
It happens.
Yeah.
You know, but sure it does.
I mean, and there's a bunch of Mac and talk.
There's a bunch of famous SoCal stuff, you know, that we joke about quite a bit.
But like the bull rider.
Yeah.
The hogs breath.
You know, there was some things that were kind of common.
Yeah.
Down there, at least in terms of being sold and this and that.
And they got their legend to them and they're gone.
Yeah.
Hug breast.
Luckily, still around, but it's always been kept super tight until the last maybe five
years now.
It's been getting out everywhere.
But if for a long time it was kept very tight, the bull rider, I've never seen bull rider
like I've gone down, you know, been lived down there for over a decade and said, yeah,
go.
And it wasn't around even by the time I got there.
Bull rider was gone.
Afghani bull rider was still there.
But you always still hear these stories about like the original bull rider and how good
it was.
The closest we have is apparently old Betsy.
But yeah, if it's anything like old Betsy, it's probably like a skunk one and all five
days type.
I think Matt can speak to this.
Afghani bull rider, I think, is a descendant of the bull rider.
I don't even know if it if it's been proven to even be a descendant.
It might be the same thing with a different name.
No, no, definitely isn't the same thing.
But I don't know if they're necessarily even descended from each other.
It might have just been two things that got similar names.
Yeah, I would think so.
I mean, I don't really know much about the dudes who've made bull rider or Afghani bull
rider.
I mean, there's Jeff Tach and then there's other people who say they did.
I don't know.
I don't know.
But I mean, if if bull rider is anything like old Betsy, then Afghani bull rider was totally
Afghani dominant and had no traits like the old Betsy, if that makes sense.
And I think lots of regions have, you know, stories like that of plants that are popular,
that are everywhere.
I mean, you know, we're going to save the purple story for another episode and we're
going to try to get our buddy on here to chat about it.
But yeah, but I can say that, you know, in the mid 2000s, like most of the commercial
growers, indoor growers, especially up by me and Mendo and Southern Humboldt, they all
had herbal.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Herbal was everywhere for a long time.
Herbal was everywhere.
And then it becomes unpopular.
And like and there's like four dudes that kept it.
Yeah.
I mean, I might be exaggerating, you know, maybe there's no, but there's so few.
So few people kept it.
Yeah.
But that's kind of what happens is everything's so popular.
People can never imagine it going away.
Yeah.
And then you can't find it.
You know, and what happens when that's the case?
And then, you know, there's there's an aspect to it now where it's like.
Oh, the wheelchair.
That's interesting that JJ had access to the wheelchair.
We used to grow the wheelchair.
I had some buddies of mine from Chicago that ended up moving out to Boulder and Longmont
and some of that area.
And they we all had the wheelchair back then.
And I don't have any idea what it was.
I was kind of an era in the 90s where there was a lot of variety and my my interest in
lineage hadn't sprouted super hard yet.
But that was a pretty famous thing in Colorado.
There was a Colorado AK-47 that smelled like sandalwood and yielded incredible.
You know, there's there was a bunch of good cuts that that went away in a way.
All the name strains that started with the purple craze in 0405, they've all been I've
said it before.
They've all been bad for diversity.
As soon as everyone could grow purple and sell it, that was bad for diversity.
Yeah, it was afterwards when everyone could grow sour cushions, sell it.
That was bad for diversity to cookies.
After that, it was very bad for diversity skills.
You can basically name every super popular strain.
And not only was it bad for diversity, but then once the feminized revolution happened,
everybody crossed it into everything else.
Yes.
And so the era that we're talking about, like in the 90s and the early 2000s, that was sort
of like the last era where all good weed sold.
Yeah.
Right.
Yeah.
Like, I mean, you can talk about me.
Maybe I'm wrong, but like if you had a bunch of bull rider today, how easy would it be
for you to even find a market for it?
Like based on what old Betsy is, I don't think there would be a market for it.
Right.
You know, so it's like some of these legends that are amazing.
It's like try to sell them.
Yeah.
You know, the gar, somebody said the gar, the gar might live.
Actually, the gar was like an 11 week garlic bud that was in the SoCal kind of Santa Barbara
ish area.
And it was really good.
Yeah, it was really good.
I bet.
So any the trinity, the trinity lineage?
I know it exactly.
It's it's bag seed from a bag of headies that a glassblower got in Trinity selling some
glass pieces.
They just said they won't take shoreline.
Is your line not selling?
It doesn't surprise me.
But I mean, like if they smoked it, they dig it.
But yeah, I guess based on what they want and the way bud looks.
People say they want shit until they have it.
They're like, oh, I don't know, man.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, we're in an era where looks and height matters more than effect.
And a lot of our friends, I see a good friend of ours posting on nobody wants cough.
You know, there's a there's an aspect of it where a lot of my friends hold on to their
favorites.
Not because they're marketable.
Yeah.
But because they love them.
You know?
Yeah.
And nobody wants them.
You know, bastards.
And you're like, you know, you grow a room of it, you grow a crop of it.
And then if you are going to sell it, they're going to try to hammer you down on price because
it's not, you know, Zookies.
Yeah.
He just said they won't take it because of the name of shoreline.
They won't take it because of the name.
Yeah.
I guess it's not shoreline flambé or first shoreline cookies or.
I don't know about the San Diego green crack.
I can't really speak to that.
I can say that green crack is most likely a skunk one.
You know?
Yeah.
That makes sense.
You know?
You know, but I mean, it's one of these things where it's like and that's and that's actually
an aspect of like the the current market is a lot of a lot of people, if you buy if you
buy from dispensaries, the dispensary has to want to buy that weed for you to be able
to buy it.
Yeah.
And a distribution company has to be willing to buy that weed to offer it to the dispensary.
So there's a lot of good weed that people don't get to see because they're like, oh,
that name is weird.
I don't want it.
Yeah.
You know, but I'll take your I'll take your starburst.
Yeah.
Or I'll take your cake or I'll take your whatever, you know.
You know, so I mean, like with the with the green crack, what was talking about to you
and you like whenever I hear mango, the first thing I think is usually skunk one, because
that's it's almost everything I've ever smelled with mango has some skunk one dominance in
it of some sort for the turps.
It may not always be the case because I've had like mango or a cantaloupe mango type
pure Afghani from Iraq.
But typically I would say skunk one is what usually trips that mango turf for me.
Someone just mentioned, you know, is it because the buyers at these dispensaries are only
in their are in their 20s?
No, that's not it.
It might be part of it.
It's a lot of it is because the dispensaries exist to make money.
Yeah.
And they want the best deal.
They want to make the most money off their shelf space.
And so even in the two 15 era, there was a lot of stuff that people didn't want to didn't
want to sell because, you know, you can't really buy a bunch of good sativas and dispensaries.
You couldn't sell J1 in San Diego because it was like the at least during the era I
was there, all of the collectives called their like their worst of the worst.
They just called it J1 like around the downtown area.
So people just would not buy J1 anywhere in San Diego after that.
They just ruined the whole name for a whole city.
And somebody mentioned this, too.
You're probably right.
If if our homie, you know, lived in New York City or somewhere around there where that
could be his market, cough might be popular.
Yeah, because there's a there's a there's a there's a decent market for an L5 Hayes
type Finos over there.
See if this has salt in it.
No salt.
No.
Snow cap was.
Yeah, the AK 47, the PES still exists.
There's a case at forty seven that still exists.
Snowcap is kind of a just a big, chunky Afghan.
I don't know if that one's still around.
It was really grown a lot.
Mendo for a while.
I think we're putting the PES in in the NL five hybrid round.
Yeah.
Hybrids.
Our buddy CSI still holds it.
Yeah, I had it for a while.
But yeah, I mean, there's a, you know, there's the PIF is really
and L5 is is kind of really unsellable unless you're on this section
of the East Coast.
You know, it's not popular in the West, it's not popular in Colorado.
Train wreck, we could save the train wreck story until I'll say that for CSI.
We'll have that. We'll have a buddy on. Yeah.
And, you know, but yeah, there's a lot of stuff that that that comes out
that has it has its name and has its time in the sun.
And the Pez is probably an LF, you know.
Yeah, I believe that's what he said was an LF.
That's why we're moving in the L5 stuff.
Yeah, it's an LF, you know, it's an old LF, you know, and a lot of this stuff is good.
They just you know, it just doesn't it just loses
just loses popularity.
And then someone's like, I want whatever I'm growing.
I want someone to come to my house or if I go take it somewhere,
I want everyone to buy it quickly.
I think someone's confusing PIF with HP 13 in there.
They're not the same thing.
Definitely not the same thing.
Definitely not.
I don't know if Brooklyn really likes to Tiva because they want to be more productive.
I think Cubans and Dominicans and, you know, various groups up there
sold it a bunch and a bunch of people smoked it and a bunch of rich people
and elites and stars back there wanted it.
And then it kind of fueled a haze wave in New York,
much like wealthy people fueled a cush wave in L.A.
Yeah. And then eventually it kind of it gets a life of its own.
Yeah. You know, and I'm not saying that, like, people might not prefer it,
but it's just like that's the thing is it's like it's got a market there.
Yeah. Obviously, for a long time, I used to joke that like,
you know, you'd go into a dispensary 10 years ago and in L.A.
and there's like which one we have, 42 strains and 38 of them are cush.
Yeah. Which one do you want?
Because it was just endless.
You know, it's what's up, Dickie.
He said, Hayes is rap weed.
God damn it.
I mean, you know, Hayes is yeah, Washington Heights.
You know, that kind of area like
the Cuban black, you know, the brown, the Dominican.
The there's a bunch of different names added to it and slang.
Some of it was grown in Florida and shipped to New York.
And, you know, it's kind of one of those things.
Heard of the Ingrid.
Heard of the Ingrid.
I don't know about the Ingrid.
What do you know about the Ingrid?
I don't know anything about no Ingrid.
I don't know anything about the Ingrid.
I mean, the cool thing about
the cool thing about Sativas
like NL5 Hayes and stuff is they do have a different buzz.
And so they they they, you know, they basically like hit you differently.
Yeah. And so they're they're really good.
That's the cough. All of them.
They all have a really good effect.
A lot of times people feel warm.
They feel happy.
They get a different kind of buzz.
A lot of times they're ugly.
In Ingrid cold, I think it's Ingrid called Ingrid cold.
Ingrid cold.
Yeah. So PIF is not an NL5 Hayes and.
Different than HP, no PIF is probably an NL5 Hayes and HP 13 is not related.
There you go. Yeah.
So, you know, yeah, I mean, there's there's a bunch of different stuff.
And so, like on the West Coast, it's like a lot of people shit on Hayes
because most of the best Finos of it never made its way out.
And the West Coast, the West Coast, as Jean, what the Ingrid is,
or I'll ask him, Hey, Jean, what's the Ingrid?
Do you know anything about it?
That's not what I heard.
Say his buddy had it. Yeah.
Is PIF the same as Cuban black?
It's hard to say.
There's a number of Finos that float around.
And a lot of times, you know, names get used independently
and of each, you know, or interchangeably, I should say.
Yeah. So I used to think that PIF, Cuban black, Heights, Hayes,
I could name four or five other names were all kind of names for the same strain.
And then some people from back there were like, Oh, no, this one is this
and this one is that this is why this is that.
And so, you know, it's just another more compartmentalized knowledge.
Yeah, I'll do this one.
Can you explain the difference between HP 13, G 13 and 88, G 13 HP?
Yes. G 13 HP is a hybrid with G 13 in it.
HP 13 is related to neither.
There you go.
Yeah. Cuban black is an NL five.
Hayes.
Mostly, yes.
You know, there's a number of different nicknames for it.
You know, lizard hash plan.
I have no idea.
You know, but I mean, I love old weed.
You know, puck and you dub puck is an old hash plant.
They used to call it puck because it got a dude used to carry it around
in a hockey puck container.
It was like a bubble tape, bubble tape, bubble tape container.
Yeah. Yeah.
Type of thing.
And so they ended up calling it the puck.
It's an old, ugly hash plant looking thing.
And it's mostly famous for being old.
For being old and people keeping it back for no reason.
Yeah. I mean, there's, you know, we have some buddies from that part of Colorado.
And like out of the half a dozen strains that those guys used to run,
the puck was one of their least favorite.
Didn't mean they didn't like it, but it's always been, you know,
but it's always been short, hard to grow, notoriously hard to root.
But one of it is old, you know?
Yeah.
How old is the G13 clone that's floating around?
G13 is one of those things that has a bunch of legends to it.
Neville claimed that the G13 that they sent out to Europe
got sick and died by 93 or so.
There's been a lot of claims.
Most of the G13 that people talk about is actually G13 NL2,
which was sold as a line by Neville for some time.
I think Matt even got some of those beans from Neville.
Yeah.
But G13, and we should deal with this now too.
It's like with the NL or G13 or Hayes or any of this stuff.
There's all these, the nineties are long ago now.
Now where these legends people pop up with this legendary name.
Yeah.
Right.
And even if you're a casual stoner, you might've heard of these legendary strains.
Yeah.
And then someone pops up with seeds or a clone or this or that.
And, you know, a funny story.
Yeah.
And, you know, they never tend to pop up with the unpopular old weed.
No, they don't.
It's always the most famous.
Airborne is the G13 NL2.
It's a specific selection from G13 NL2 that was looked most like the G13 clone.
We had a buddy who very well might've had a very old, old, old G13 in Ohio.
It got infected with the virus and was lost.
But there was an old G13 floating around Ohio that supposedly tied back to the eighties.
I think Fletcher said that that one was airborne.
There was, yeah, there, there was an airborne cut.
And, um, what was the other one named?
I'm slipping.
Pacific Pacific Pacific, but they called it Pacific G13, but that I did.
I ran, I ran all of those.
I ended up making S ones of the airborne and sending those back to Neville to do projects with.
Um, I really wasn't a fan of the Pacific G13 motor rebel and, and, uh, bring your clips,
used a bunch of that stuff.
And I ran through a bunch of it and didn't like it, but the airborne, I did think was
pretty fucking cool.
It was a Thunderfuck is a famous name.
Um, I, I, I got some quarter pounds from a guy on dead tour, um, who mailed them from
me from Denali, Alaska, and I don't know, 93 or 94 or something.
And I love that weed.
And every, every Thunderfuck I've seen has been nothing like it since.
Yeah.
That Thunderfuck was like kind of a catch all name, kind of like Maui, wowee.
Yeah.
Maybe.
And that there was any number of different things grown under that label.
Um, so, um, yeah, that's all that's that is exactly right.
It came from the forum days.
The airborne, it was a selection of G13 and all too.
Yeah.
I mean, I even remember, uh, people like Hempy and Vic high and all that arguing back and
forth over whether they were different and what the provenance on it was and all this
and that it was, it was, uh, it was a hot debate for a minute, you know?
Yeah.
Um, for sure.
You know, my buddy sub Rob's from Alaska from that area.
And he's been shouting from the rooftops forever that like, look, dude, no one ever had the
same Thunderfuck.
Even if you lived during that time in Alaska, no one ever had the same Thunderfuck twice.
It was never the same.
It was never a single cut.
Yeah.
And you know, the, the Thunderfuck that I had, I, I dude on it.
Someone asked me what the terms were like.
Um, I was in my teens then and partying a lot and traveling a bunch.
I don't remember.
I do remember that it was nicer than most of the kind, but I could get at the time.
Yeah.
I have fond memories of it.
Yeah.
But do I have a clear memory from 1993, 1994 of what it tasted like?
Yeah.
No, I don't.
I, I, and you know, I don't.
Um, and mostly just because it's really hard to describe turps and knows it's like one
of the hardest things in wheat.
We have a lot of language for visual stuff.
We have poor language for smells.
Yeah.
In my opinion.
You know, most of the time when we talk about now that there's like some terpenes coming
up, people start talking about terpene or mercy or this or that.
But most of the time people talk about smells, not about like the actual smell, but what
it reminds them of.
Yeah.
The shit smells like linoleum or pencil shavings or poop or a guy's dick or skunk, you know,
Oh man.
You know?
So, I mean, yeah, you know, you probably missed the era to name a strain from under.
Yeah.
Probably.
It's probably not the time for that.
I don't know.
I could see a few dudes doing that.
You could see a few dudes doing that, but yeah, you have to relate it to something else.
You know, some of them are really easy, like Callie or, or Tangy.
Yeah.
Citrus is really common.
You can be like, Oh, that's citrus.
And everybody knows what, what it's like.
Yeah.
You know, some things and not everyone, when they smell things, remember, Oh, that smells
like pencil shavings from what I used to sharpen my pencil in grade school.
Yeah.
Not everybody has that memory.
I never, I've never seen the dewberry.
You know, CS High describes one of the Mendo perps, Finos is, I want to say it's either
king snake shit or coral snake shit.
Oh yeah.
I've talked to him about it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like that's a king snake has actually got a very distinctive kind of poo.
Yeah.
He's like, no, it's specific.
It's coral snake shit.
And it's very specific, but unless you've smelled it, I mean, yeah, that's kind of what
we laugh about with all the euros is like skunks don't even exist in Europe.
Yeah.
So they've never smelled, they've never smelled roadkill unless they traveled over here.
Yeah.
You know, most Americans have smelled the dead skunk at some point.
Yeah.
You know, cause you drive by and it's very potent, you know?
Um, you know, but I mean, that's kind of like, as far as like strains that were law, I, uh,
a lot of the hazes I've been kind of a haze freak for a long time.
And I used to think I honestly, the first four or five times I went to Amsterdam, I
was pretty convinced that they had bunk, that it was all a great marketing kick.
And that like my friends and the hippies and the dead tour kids that I knew, we had way
better weed than anyone in Amsterdam.
Yeah.
Right.
And then I met some folks and I ended up smoking some of the famous haze cuts and I was like,
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
He's never been the same since.
Okay.
You know?
Um, and, uh, you know, and so, but those things, those things are legends.
They, you know, they just started circulating in America the last couple of years.
Um, but I think NL five haze is famous for a reason.
Um, here's one, here's a good one for you.
How do you feel about Shanti Baba's work these days?
I will admit that I poke less holes in Shanti's work than most of my friends.
Uh, I would say that's probably accurate.
Yeah.
Um, you know, I, I think that one of the cool things that Shanti Baba has done is he has not
really mixed a bunch of his work with everything new, you know?
And so if you want to get some stuff that at least has a bunch of old genetics,
um, there's a lot of that on offer through him.
Yeah.
You know, it might take more work to find something that you want out of it.
Um, it's, it's a huge debate as to like what he still has and what he's lost.
Yeah.
You know, um, and there was always a lot of junk in the Amsterdam stuff.
Yeah.
Amsterdam stuff, in my opinion, had a low floor and a high ceiling,
you know, which is not how people like it today.
People like a high floor.
You want to get a lot of average weed or just above average weed that looks pretty nice.
Yes.
There was a lot of shit I popped from Seamus Seedbanks back in the day that was ugly and shitty.
Yeah.
But then there's Finos that popped out of that that people still hold today that are amazing.
You know?
Yeah.
So I can't really, I can't really say, I think that there is real stuff amongst Shanti Baba's work.
Um, I think there's a bunch of junk in it too.
I don't think that's like an indictment of him necessarily.
It's indisputable that he bought Neville's old seed stash.
Yeah.
And it's also indisputable that he worked with Neville and Neville gave him a number of breeding
cuts.
Yeah.
So he's one of the few people that can actually claim to have access to some of that old stuff.
Yeah.
But I also think the, uh, you know, the times have passed him by
and people don't go to him very much anymore.
And they're not searching through his stuff very much.
Yeah.
And, uh, you know, he kind of, I mean, if you think about it, he came out with Neville's Hayes,
super silver Hayes and mango Hayes and what was the 97 or 98?
Yeah.
Somewhere around there.
So he's, and he came out with white widow.
He's made some really big contributions to the cannabis world.
They're just mostly multiple decades old.
Yeah.
You know, with Shanti, I found it like, if I wanted to find a longer flower in line that,
that is going to have some, um, going to have some uniqueness to it, turquoise and,
and genetics wise, he's a great place to go.
Granted, you'll have to dedicate a lot of space to a good size pop because it is older stuff.
It's not like it hasn't been bred for the past 30 years, fucking just for resin production and
just for THC potency and testing.
And, but if you want to find good old, like heady sativa shit, his stuff is some of the
best places to start.
I agree with Jean.
He said the mango has Hayes is fire fire.
Yeah.
The mother is based off of is my favorite cut of NL five Hayes.
I would love, love, love if it ever appeared in America.
Um, you know, and you know, his, his white widow,
especially in the nineties and his white family kind of changed the game.
Yeah.
I could also, you could, you could say too, that since,
since regular seed lines are becoming rarer and rarer.
Uh, if you wanted to actually start doing some back crossing and you needed a male pollen donor,
he offers all regular seed lines.
Yeah.
Um, and what I was going to say is that when it comes to his Afghani lines and his
more Indica type stuff, I have not had as much success with that stuff as I have with his, uh,
Hayes Hayes lines.
I like the Hayes.
Somebody, uh, somebody just said his Shanti shit line is white, hot fire.
Uh, I'm glad you found something you liked.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Because I ran through some shit and I thought it was pretty shitty.
But that just, that just goes to show that, you know, uh, you know, that, um, you could run
through a few hundred seeds and it's all bunk.
And then one guy gets one pack and find something that they think is amazing.
Yeah.
And, and some people will find like, like pop skunk, one stuff that haven't experienced skunk
one so much and be like, this is fire.
You know, it's possible.
Totally.
And definitely if you're looking for sativa based lines, um, that are, that are workable
Shanti has that.
Yeah.
And, uh, you know, it's, um, you know, that I like him more than most, you know, but we all
have our, like, we all have our favorites.
I liked him until that last deal where I wanted to buy some shit and he was all weird.
Yeah.
You know, I mean, he, he, uh, you know, I, I tend to think, I mean, but that's, it's,
you can, you can get a bunch of us together and start talking about, about which old character
from the nineties you think is the least shady.
And it's hard to get anybody to agree.
Yeah.
That's very true.
I tend to lean into the Shanti Neville camp.
Yeah.
There's people that are very into Dave Watson, Sam skunk, man.
Um, there's, you know, it's, you know, there's people that are very into a lot of these old
guys, you know, it's, it's kind of like, imagine people debating all the people that we know
20 years from now.
Yeah.
You're going to have your camps.
Yeah, for sure.
You know?
Um, okay.
So real quick, someone asked about the NL five stuff, cause I'm getting tired and we're
going to have to cut it kind of early.
But, um, NL five stuff.
So we have three main cuts that we're going to like let out a little bit.
Um, one of them is the bubble gum, Fino that I've talked about before.
Um, it is more bubble gum than bubble gum.
The cut that me and CSI and a bunch of others use.
Um, it is extremely pink bubble gummy and loud with the pink bubble gum.
Then we have a lot of pineapple, a lot of tropical.
There was a specific citrus cut that we kept cuts up and, um, well, we kept cuts of everything,
but as far as like things that we thought are keepers in terms of what is considered
keepers nowadays are the bubble gum, the citrus, and then one that we just called the ranch
tank just because there's no good way to describe it yet, but it's, it's rank as buck.
So those are the three main, like, if you're going to be pulling for really cool shit that
you want to find, I, I, both, all three of those are pretty fucking rad.
Um, the, the taste transfers a little bit better than the, uh, Indiana bubble gum cut.
I will say that, but, um, those are the three main ones that we kept, but there's a lot of
different offerings in it is, it is a very, very blind.
So yeah, hopefully that helps.
Um, if you're a part of the Patreon, if you're part of the breeder syndicate, Patreon, um,
you can go right now and buy it back.
You just have to have backstage access.
If you're a part of the Patreon and you still can't see it on right.
It's eco.com.
Then get ahold of me and I'll make sure that your account is hooked up so you can do that.
And yeah, mean, Jean just made a comment that I think deserves to be highlighted.
Maybe he said, I don't believe in people.
I believe in dank.
Yeah.
Uh, and we have this phrase, we have, we have this phrase we use all the time that plants
don't lie.
Yeah.
And so some of our, like Kim dog talk and some of that other stuff that we were doing
earlier, uh, in previous episodes was kind of about our speculation on like what the
plants are telling us versus the story.
Yeah.
And dank is dank.
Not everybody agrees that every cut is dank, obviously.
Um, but most elites, a decent amount of people think this weed is fire.
Yeah.
You know?
Um, and you know, in all honesty, you're, you're no comments on the Elvis, uh, the fucking,
I just don't, I don't think anybody really knows what the Elvis was.
Ran the cut for a long time, gave the skunk master flex and never saw it again.
But, um, as far as what it was, it could be an NL five Hayes, but just nobody really knows.
I, um, I don't have a lot of backstory on the Elvis.
It's one of those ones.
It's not like we're trying to ignore it.
Um, you know, but, uh, you know, it's sometimes it's, it's not like we're an encyclopedia
on just about everything.
Um, Elvis is a famous cut.
Um, but you know, it got passed around.
I don't think, have you ever grown it?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I've never grown it.
So I have, I have very little actual like intelligent discourse on that one.
So we're not ignoring you.
Mine came from Ms. Elvis on THC farmer back in the day, who was a dude that had, um, he
had the regular Elvis cut and then he had one called the pink Cadillac cut and he gave me
both of them.
And I thought it was dank for the time, but I don't know if it would be considered date
nowadays.
And I think, I don't know, we can talk to, we can talk to CSI.
You know, he takes a ton of pictures.
Um, there could be some pictures coming of, uh, more pictures of the NL.
Oh yeah.
There's tons more coming to the NL fives and the different ones of the various of the various
rooms.
That's one of the coolest things about CSI is that he's pretty transparent, um, about,
uh, you know, about his process and stuff like that.
And so people will be able to get to see Finos and things of that nature fairly soon.
So, um, what's dank nowadays?
Um, to me, I'm more of a classics kind of person.
Um, but what's dank is what you enjoy smoking.
Yeah.
Honestly, that's really what it is.
Whatever jives best with your brain chemistry, this weed is dank.
Yeah.
Means I liked smoking this weed.
And then if enough people decide that weed is dank, it generally gets popular and becomes
an elite of some kind.
Yeah.
It's gotten confusing, uh, with legality because everyone wants to have the dank and everyone
wants to have white hot fire and everything that they're growing is an elite of an elite.
And all they get is fucking wedding cake.
So fuck them.
So it's, you know, so yeah, it's, it's, it's become a lot modern marketing rather than
like crowd testing.
Yeah.
For lack of a better term, you know?
Um, and, uh, you know, they, uh, you know, a lot of the stuff that, that I have and some
of the stuff I've been sharing with CSI and others and stuff like that, it's just like
old favorites.
It worked with me really well.
So I held onto it, you know?
Um, and I mean, it's a shame, it's a shame that we don't have a catalog of all the old
strains and all the old eras and seed stock and cutting saved and all that, because the
collection we would have of diversity from even 1990 to now, which is only, you know,
30 years, um, or 32 years, Jesus, but would be in pretty insane.
Yeah.
Are you feeling hella old after saying that?
You know, what made me feel old is I saw this thing that said that right now, the we're
far, we're as far away from the nineties as we were from the sixties in the nineties.
And that made me feel old.
Yeah, that'll do it.
That made me feel old.
Um, you know, I have a, I have a 23 year old daughter and she does a great job of making
me feel old all the time.
You know, I'm regularly reminded how ancient I am.
You should feel old.
You're old.
But I'm not that old, really.
I'm only in my forties, you know, that's the new 20.
But when I was 22, I probably, I thought a 45 year old dude was hella old.
Yeah, dude, I thought 40 year old was hella old until I was fucking 38.
Then I started thinking, we think of that.
Yeah.
You know, and so, but I mean, that's, what's cool about it, right.
Is that there's a lot of people now, maybe we'll, I don't know if we'll end on this,
but I should just say it, but the 90, the eighties and nineties and the early two thousands
are long enough away now that we are getting a deluge of ancient, amazing lines and seeds
and cuts from all over the place.
Right.
And somehow when I was searching for these things like crazy 10 years ago, I couldn't
find most of them anywhere because they were unpopular and nobody could make any money
off them and they were fucking nowhere.
Yeah.
Now that there's like a whole new generation that, you know, all of a sudden it's like
all this ancient stuff that you heard about, or you read about in high times, or is, you
know, like skunk one is new again.
Oh, what's this?
What's that?
What's pith?
Even this, even this like laughable debate over who's got real sour.
Thunderfuck, you know, sour is old enough now that there's a bunch of smokers that grew
up in the, you know, if you came, if you started smoking weed in the last 10 or 12 years, you
were in the cookie Skittles cake dessert era.
Yeah.
You might not have smoked a bunch of, and most people sour diesel, they think the real
sour is the first one they smoked.
Yeah.
Doesn't mean it was the real one.
It just means it was their first personal experience, you know?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, green merchant, you know, most people don't know that green merchant, they rated
every hydro store in the United States.
We used to go to hydro stores in a friend's car who didn't grow in case our license plate
got written down.
Yeah.
That was the kind of, there was, it was a real issue.
You had to find a friend who you could pay, who was willing to take some risk and drive
you to the store because no one ever wanted to be in the, near the store with a license
plate tied to a grow.
Yeah.
You know, so part of the gig, part of the gig, you know, right.
I'm trying to think if there was anything else I had to plug.
I'm so fucking tired.
That and all fives up and all five will be up for Monday for everyone who else who wants
to buy it.
That's not a part of Patreon or be up on Monday.
So check the right seedcode.com site for that.
Pretty soon we'll have some Hawaiian lights stuff as well as some crosses with some of
not so stuff on the Hawaiian lights.
So keep posted on that.
And I think other than that, I think we're, check out speakeasy.com.
They've been helping us get these podcasts up and fast or check out their stuff.
Anything else not so from your end?
I mean, obviously we, you know, normally we chat longer.
Matt's tired.
We'll cut it a little short tonight, which is fine, but we're, we're going to be doing
this every Friday and we're going to be trying to bring people together.
We're super open to ideas.
Yeah.
Gene, Gene's next Friday, Gene's next Friday.
Everyone go, go DM him about it.
He wants to come on next Friday.
Okay.
So, yeah, I mean, we're, we want to bring friends on, we want to bring community on.
We basically just want to bullshit about weed and try to get a bunch of advertising out
there and sort of flip the script, which is like 98% self-promotion and 2% history
and kind of reverse it.
Flipped it.
We flipped it.
It's 98% history and bullshitting and 2% 2% self-promotion, 2% self-promotion, you know?
And cause you need a little self-promotion to keep the whole movie going.
Yeah, we do.
But in general, but in generally speaking, you know, the,
um, CSI will have a bunch of pictures up about, he ran multiple rooms of the Northern Lights.
He'll have a bunch of pictures of phenos that he's popping up as him and Matt start to sell
some of it.
He saved a bunch of the work.
He crossed to various selected phenos.
He's got some open pollination work.
He really is a very thorough man when it comes to breeding.
So we're trying to lock all this different stuff in.
And, um, you know, and, you know, so yeah, ask us questions.
You can ask us questions on the discord.
You can always DM us.
You can ask us questions in the posts and we really do take those into account.
We're trying to think of what we want to talk about because we want to talk about stuff.
That's interesting.
You know?
Yeah.
That's all we care about.
So it's going to be a little shorter.
Hopefully next week, if we'll lock in Jean and we can talk about a bunch of stuff like that.
Next week, plan on it, Jean.
You know, and I'll say this, you know, Jean lives in, I don't want to call it my neighborhood,
but like we live in the same county.
I've lived here since 98.
He was born and raised here.
You know, his, his, uh, his parents were weed farmers.
And so there's a certain amount of history and just sameness that comes with growing
up in the same era and the same people and stuff like that.
So maybe we could talk a little bit about some of his own work or some of the gorilla
stuff or some of the phases of what it was like trying to get away with it.
Definitely into the same kind of dudes, which I appreciate.
They always have a similar taste in men.
Yeah.
We have a, we have a similar backstory.
Yeah.
There you go.
Similar.
We came from similar eras and a lot of those eras, they're only stuck in your memory.
Yeah.
So if you don't have other people to talk about them, they're just stuck in your own head.
There you go.
Anyway, ask a bunch of questions, ask a bunch of follow-up questions, hit us up on our discord,
on the breeders syndicate discord, hit us up on IG, on the DMs.
Yeah.
Questions that pop into your head from any conversation.
Keep it going.
Keep it talking.
You know?
Yeah.
And if you think that we've said something wrong, question it, question it.
Yeah.
A hundred percent.
Everybody should question everything.
We're not, we're not talking down to anyone or anything like that.
We're trying to get information out there and debate.
Yeah.
And I'm often wrong.
Not so I'm all, I'm often wrong though.
So question everything I fucking say.
I'm half awake.
All right.
Indeed.
Cheers everyone.
Good night everyone.
