Hello, everyone. I think I got that right. Kind of. It was kind of a smooth transition,
but not so smooth, but it worked. So we are live.
We are live.
Okay. Thank you, everyone, for showing up today. This is the Breeder Syndicate. I need
to remove background from everything. I'll eventually figure all this out. This is my
co-host, NotSoDog. There he is. And this week we're doing a show on feminization and kind
of try to go through feminized seeds A to Z. What they are, why they are, some of the
mechanics of how it works as far as the biosynthesis and how to make them. So, yeah. Where should
we start? Should I bring in my presentation? I mean, I don't know if we should start with
the presentation. Did we get to see how many... Normally we chat. I was almost going to break
your rule there for a second. Normally we chat for a second until people join. Can you
see how many people join? Yeah. The live on the YouTube is going to be way different than
the live at Instagram. It's going to be drastically different in numbers. So, yeah.
Okay. So, yeah. Anyway, I don't know if the presentation is the gig or whatever. Maybe
we could just start by the first feminized seeds that I ever knew of were just HERMS.
Yes.
And there was a lot of false information. We used to think of HERMS as like an accident
before we really understood the reasoning behind it. And we used to think that if you
used HERM seeds, you could permeate the line with future HERMS. But that was pretty much,
I think, the first feminized breeding that most people ever did was accidental.
Yeah. I think that's how people figured out.
Trying to grow seedless.
Figured out that if stress or if they let their plants run long, that they would make
seeds. And when they pop them, they tended to be female.
Yeah, very much so. But I don't think people realized at that time. I didn't, certainly,
that those were actually feminized seeds.
Oh, yeah. I'm sure that was just like an afterthought or something they might have noticed after
the fact, after planting them several times when it happens.
Especially if you only get a handful. Maybe you just think that you just didn't get a
boy.
Yeah. Luck is on your side for once.
And we also call that bag seed. And bag seed is sort of the backbone of the elite cuts
history in a lot of ways.
Well, a lot of bag seed, too, is from leftover males. So it's not all feminized. Not all
bag seed is feminized bag seed.
Correct. Very much so. Very much so. In fact, you would say that in imports and stuff like
that, a lot of them get pollinated by straight males all the time.
Yeah, absolutely.
And so, yeah, but that was that was that's sort of the start. And then for a long time,
most of my breeding career, really, it was what we call regular seeds. That was the only
way that people did things for the most part. I don't recall reading about or knowing anyone
except for some very weird experiments trying to make feminized seed.
Sometimes people would just stress out a plant and try to get it to make pollen.
Yeah, that was I think that was probably like one of the most common things that was
tried in like feminized seed infancy.
Right. Yeah.
Mohan Ram and his partner did some work in 1982 with feminized sex reversals.
And the first paper was written in 1982 on the the feminized sex reversals using silver
nitrate and sodium thiosulfate.
And they tried a bunch of different things, but they found that in a certain concentration
that the best results came from using a combination of silver nitrate and sodium thiosulfate.
They would use the silver nitrate to get the action, the ethylene blocking action and the
sodium thiosulfate to keep it from being as photo toxic.
I'd never get it right. Phototoxic.
Yeah. Yeah.
Damaging. So this is the man we kind of owe all our our whole feminized heritage to as
far as, you know, developing the process, trying it out, figuring out what works best.
And it goes as far back as 1982.
But we didn't quite see that start coming into the cannabis world until if I remember
correctly, Dutch Passion was the one who started pushing it real big.
They did. They started defining the term feminized.
And instead of saying that they were all female seeds, they would call it feminized just in
case you got a male or two popping up.
They wanted to denote that it wasn't always going to be female as it were.
And maybe people should know, too, that when when that first started happening, being
Dutch, they kept what they were doing very close to the vest.
Oh, sure. There was zero explanation given or way of how they were achieving it.
So for a lot of aspiring breeders and things like that, there wasn't you know, there
wasn't an easy reference of anywhere to go on how to what what to use, how to do it, a
process, you know, mixing instructions, any of that.
Yeah. And it was held pretty tightly.
Yeah. They tended to hold things much tighter than a lot of other communities.
And notably so, I mean, every time that they seem to share clones like every single Dutch
seed company would have it the next year and be competing with it in the cup.
So there was kind of a reason that they did it.
But it carried on into other avenues and areas, even when it came to like breakthroughs in
different technology for cannabis seeds.
And I also think, too, that, you know, for a long time as well, the technology was
unknown and it was also sort of looked down upon as cheating.
Yes. And cannabis enthusiasts, for the most part, did not look at it as a particularly
viable method.
Yeah. They thought the male and female method was everything everyone needed.
And but, you know, in other forms of breeding and certainly in other in other industries
and agriculture and stuff, reversals, feminized seed at S1s, you know, all that
kind of stuff have a long history.
Yeah. It's the agricultural standard to breed using selfing techniques because the
fastest way to achieve uniformity, which is really what they're trying to achieve in
agricultural breeding.
They're trying to get consistency, uniformity, dependability, all aspects of the same
thing. They're trying to lock in certain traits and have those be dependable.
Yeah. I mean, farmers need to know what they're growing each year.
They need to make sure that each one's going to stand up to whatever's coming, being
thrown at it. They can't have a bunch of diversity, you know, and that's a lot of
money. This is a commercial operation.
So, yeah. And so I think what happened is, is there was a cultural shift in that in the
70s and 80s and certainly a decent chunk of the 90s for a lot of people, it was a seed
culture. Right.
And you would just buy seeds and you would grow seeds and you would kill the males or
remove them and you would grow the females and sometimes you'd make seed, but you were
growing from seed. And then clones started becoming more popular as people found
certain specimens.
Yeah. And what that led to is, you know, the first wave of so on elites.
Right. And then that led to breeding with those elites.
Yeah. And we covered a lot of those elites in a previous episode.
I think we called it the Cannabis clone list.
So do a YouTube search for that.
You can you can find that episode.
So people started, well, what happened if I take my male lines and I start breeding them to
these elites that have all these qualities that people like?
And then what happened, I think, with Dutch passion, too, is as in Holland and Amsterdam
as they started to lose actual lines but still had clones remaining.
I think they went feminized.
As a way to like, you know, maybe they don't have a line of it anymore, but they still
have a few select cuts.
Oh, yeah. Yeah. And I think they also they did look at it as a way of keeping other
breeders from breeding with their line.
I know that was big with the white widow, like feminizing the white widow.
The reason behind that was because they wanted to make sure that people couldn't use
their white widow cut.
They wanted to make it theirs.
You couldn't make it like theirs.
And if it's only female, you won't have a male to make your seeds with.
When in fact, we all know that you can take a plant from a feminized seed, reverse it,
use that pollen just as well as any clone.
So, yeah, I will say back then now that is as the industry has shifted now, that's very
wide knowledge. But before, I think it was not wide knowledge.
Yeah. So it probably for some years protected them just because I mean, I can't
remember. Was it I see, Meg?
I can't remember what year it was where people started posting an actual recipe.
Oh, I don't know. I believe CSI said it was originally on old Canada World or Canada's
World or or Evergro.
I always attributed it to FETT because that's where I first saw it was when FETT would
pass it around. OK, Spice Brothers.
But it goes back much further.
And there's there's someone who actually that that I forgot was like five to two point
five is what we call it.
The recipe where it's five milligrams silver nitrate to two point five milligrams
sodium thiosulfate mixed for the stock solution.
And that's the old recipe that someone and I, I regret it.
But if I can figure out from CSI, I'll update it in the show notes there so people can
have it. So, yeah, I mean, it it gone.
It's gone from sort of being the the cheating, undesirable way.
Oh, man, this breeders feminizing.
He's lost his his mojo to being the industry standard.
Yeah. You know where regular seeds now are very rare compared to feminized.
Yeah. So it's been a sea change, really.
I've talked about it in a lot of other episodes where like the first I would say even
10 years of making seeds when I and I and I came off the bat making them and I see
that's what I started with as far as seeds that I was selling.
I was making Fem seeds and selling them just off the bat.
And for the first 10 years, I was told constantly daily emails, you're ruining the
cannabis fucking genome that it's going to be done.
You're ruining it for good.
Taking mails out is GMO.
You're killing it. You know, this isn't natural.
It's not nature's way.
You know, there are all kinds of different reasoning that people would use.
And it was almost like this religious belief that they had, like God made it this way.
Yeah. You're going to tinker with it your way and it's going to be Satan bad.
You know, that's the way I felt.
Yeah, I mean, it's funny.
I was thinking about it when you were talking about the.
The part about like having all these other seed companies steal the work the next year
because you just buy regular seeds and then you have the pollen.
Yeah. And, you know, when people think of GMO, I would say that probably the first name
that comes to mind is probably Monsanto, right?
Oh, sure. In everybody's mind.
And they made they famously got around that issue by breeding specifically for, you know,
so that their stuff was sterile.
And then we've seen this in cannabis as well, talked about because there's a there's a
problem and Neville, everyone's talked about it, every single breeders talked about it,
where the terminator, though there is no there is no patents, there is no way to control
your genetic work.
So once you've released a line to the public, it's just out there.
Yeah. And the only the only system that regulates who does what with it after that is the
honor system. Yeah.
I mean, we all know, we all know, like from theory and practice that once you let a clone
out of your hands, once it leaves the one spot that it exists, once two people hold it,
everyone holds it.
We've all learned that.
Yeah, I mean, it's that it's that old saying, right?
Like three people can keep a secret if two of them are dead.
Exactly. Exactly.
It's true. It's true.
You know, and but the other part that I will say to that, and this is a little bit of a
tangent, so I apologize.
But you know, using the OG, for instance, which had like an enormous impact on Southern
California and sort of the cannabis market in general, if greedy people hadn't sold it
and leaked it, it probably never would have gotten as famous as it did because there would
only have been a tiny group of people that had it.
And one of the issues that we had with the chem dog back in the day was there was like
four garages in California growing.
Yeah. So it just wasn't very much market for it.
So it never really could build because it didn't leak out fast and get everywhere and
have this huge wave of everyone having it so fast.
Yeah. It like it was like here and there.
Yeah. Like it took Kush.
There's a there's a weird thing between people don't want it to leak too fast, too far and
make it worthless. Yeah.
But if it doesn't leak enough where there's actual available flower of it, it can't ever
catch on as a as a wave.
Yeah. We saw that with the Clockwork Orange in San Diego.
Like we tried to keep that in the hogs breath super tight.
And the only reason we ever saw hogs breath take off the way it did was because James
got had a collective called Unified Collective.
And how do you not had that collective and had it not gotten big?
I'm not sure the hogs breath would have blown up like it was because it wasn't in a bunch
of different rooms. It was just not.
And if and if you're if you have something really special that, you know, kind of gets
out there, you can get a little bit of buzz with it and people want it.
But you don't fulfill that with flower ever.
And people never get to try it.
That just that that is a hype that dies fast.
It does. You know, or another level is it becomes legendary enough now that like people
can can, you know, offer high priced whatever on it because there's not enough people out
there that can call bull.
Asian fantasy.
Perfect example.
One person ever has had this clone, never gotten rid of it, never let anybody have it.
But to this day, I still see Asian fantasy in collectives.
It actually it went so far as to make itself totally unpopular because nobody else could
really get a hold of it that it became so rare that it proliferated fakes eventually.
You know, it's funny is way back in the day, sometimes when we would try to sell people
chem dog. The funny thing about brokers and people like that is that they would diss it
sometimes because they were so connected.
Pretty much all the best weed they see.
Yeah. So if they were unfamiliar with it, it couldn't be that good.
Yeah. You know, just so everybody knows, too, this this YouTube is much better, but I can't
see comments this week the way Matt can.
So I apologize if if if you're asking me things and I don't see them, you know, you can't
see anything. I don't worry.
I'll type for him.
And so, yeah, but I mean, getting getting back to the to the sort of the focus of it is
that, you know, even before Feminize Seed, people started just releasing elite stuff and
hybrids only.
Yeah, because they didn't want to give out the pure line.
Yeah. They wanted to release it mixed.
And then Feminize started coming along, like you said, with Dutch Passion.
But I don't think in America it really started spreading to anybody using it.
Matt can correct me. He's way more into it than I am on this one.
But probably like 07, 08, 09 era.
Yeah, I think 06, 07, 08, 09 and a little bit before with Hive.
Obviously, Hive was a big proponent of reversals and doing Feminize Seeds.
I know there were people like GoldenEye's doing supposed S1s of cuts that were.
I guess I should clarify that and say that like as Feminize Seeds started hitting the
market where cannabis members, you know, cannabis people could get access to them.
Yeah, I think that there was some experiments going on, like and there was certain I'm not
going to say like before this date no one was doing it because that would be silly.
But as far as like a marketable thing where people were selling Feminize Seed.
Yeah, I think it was about that time, like 06 and on.
But realistically, like there was there was never a time up until the last few years,
the past five, six, seven years where you weren't getting insulted to do it, though.
Like you were looked at as like the bastard child of the cannabis industry for making
those available.
I mean, people would people would give Caleb a bunch of shit.
Oh, yeah.
Good friends would would bullshit with you or with him or with whoever that, you know,
that they were making Feminize Seed.
It was cheating.
Yeah, it was cheating.
Yeah, it was like, oh, only the untalented do that.
That's the short that's the easy shortcut.
Anybody can do that.
It's selecting the male.
That that's that's where the real breeding comes in.
That's where the real that was usually the propaganda for it.
Well, it's not like like most propaganda.
There's a pretty good amount of truth in it in the sense that when it comes to selecting
males, it is hard.
Oh, sure.
You know, and and but, you know, I don't think, you know, I used to joke with you or
whatever that like all my regular breeding, I never had a single failure.
Yeah.
Because when you're using regular males, it's really hard to fail.
Yeah.
You know, you can only you only need a few of them and they produce a copious amount
of pollen and you can heavily seed your entire room pretty easily.
Yeah, I've never had male failures.
So to me, the the art of regular seed breeding is like fans and a bamboo stake and
beating the male.
Yeah.
Or cutting the male off and shaking it above the plants.
It's extremely basic and successful.
But as you know, Matt can talk about at length and some of our friends getting the
feminized process is a lot trickier.
Yes, it's it's certainly uncertain in terms of if it will work, how many seeds it
will make, how much pollen there is.
There's a lot of the actual act of getting the the the fertilization happening.
Yeah.
Is is a lot more difficult.
Oh, yeah.
And that's sort of like the name of the game.
And there's a lot of nuance.
And part of this show is going to be Matt talking about some of that nuance.
Yeah.
So let's talk about first, why?
Why feminized seeds?
Why?
Why would this be a tool in any breeders tool belt?
What are the advantages?
What are the disadvantages?
What are they?
So first off, a feminized seed is a seed made with using only female pollen that has
been induced.
Now, technically, you can induce it in many ways.
You can use it stress, chemical or I mean, even I guess that's it.
Stress or chemical, because letting it flower extra long is still a stress kind of
trait for it to throw those male parts.
I don't want to interrupt too much, but you could probably throw in genetic as well.
Yeah, I mean, there's some things like ties and some different strains that seem to
harm easily and often, even when happy.
Oh, yeah, yeah, that's true.
Yeah.
Intersects natural intersects plants.
Definitely.
Yeah, they exist.
Yeah, they definitely exist in nature.
And, you know, this trait exists in cannabis originally because the main goal of a
cannabis plant isn't for us to smoke it like in its in its system.
Its main its main purpose is to make more seeds and carry on its its genetics.
And in doing so, somehow, some way it has a trait in it.
I don't know if that's the correct word, but it has the ability to detect if there
are males around it.
And if not, and it knows that it's going to be dying soon or unable to make seed
soon, it will start making its own male parts.
Even with even if it's missing the male chromosome, it will use its environment to
manipulate its own hormonal system and kick out male parts to make essentially
female only chromosome to pollen.
So what you end up with in the seeds is a single chromosome plant, only female.
And that can look like two things.
It can look like what we call our our general term for it in the cannabis industry
is bananas, which are basically like little yellow pollen sacks that pop out of a
female bud.
Right. And they contain a small amount of pollen, realistically speaking.
But there can be many of them.
And they typically little anthers and they just grow, they just grow, they look like a
little bit. That's why they get called bananas because they're little yellow curved
things. And that's the most common type of hermaphrodite.
But there is also hermaphrodism where some part of the plant or even out of a maturing
female flower, you will get actual male parts grown.
Yes. And when you do reversals, a lot of people don't realize this until they actually
perform it and see it in person.
When you're spraying a female plant, when it turns, when it starts growing male parts,
it does not grow male parts like a male does, like we're used to seeing now in
cannabis. When we have males, we're used to seeing the the the parts grow up in like
the elbows or armpits, you know, right there, hang lower.
You know, they grow up and hang lower.
That's not what happens in a reversal.
It keeps the structure of the female like a bud and groups the flower super tight.
The male part super tight and ball so they don't necessarily hang.
Sometimes in a successful reversal, they'll kind of extend and hang a little bit and
droop. And so that it's very easy for it to drop pollen everywhere.
But most of the time, most of the time in a reversal, when you're using a chemical
reversal, it'll it'll be very hard for it to uncluster.
And a lot of times you'll need to use tweezers and pick them out by hand and shake the
little pollen out in a baggie.
Like it's there are a lot of tedious things you have to do sometimes to coax pollen out
of a reversed female because of the way the bud structure is much different than a
male. Yeah, I mean, it.
I almost think of it like is the flowers packed so tight that they can't open up.
Yeah. And drop pollen the right way.
They can't mature. It seems like.
From my conversations with Matt and other friends of ours, it does seem to me like over
the next decades or so, we probably will continue to learn a lot more about how to
successfully reverse cannabis.
Cannabis, obviously, since feminized seed are the most common way that people breed
now, people have had a lot of success with it.
But it is very hit or miss.
Very inconsistent. Failures are common.
And even successful, successful can be anything from like a light dusting of pollen that
you get a few seeds to a heavily seeded room where you're extremely happy at the number
of seeds that you got or anything in between.
And the one thing to note, and a lot of people don't understand, and I'm going to
cover this a little bit more in depth later.
But one of the reasons why you'll see feminized seeds tend to cost more is because
even when you have those like extreme successes where it seems to get you a lot of
seeds, it's always less than you would get from a male.
Always, always.
You never get as much pollen from a reverse plant as you would a male.
So that's super important.
You know, like a lot of people always say, why are they more expensive?
I don't get it. It's the failure and it's the amount of seeds you get.
Yeah, I mean, even, you know, just to use an example, I think when when CSI reversed
the the triangle, he failed twice.
Yeah. And then he used he used one specific spray and had success, but he only got about
10 or 15 percent of the volume of seeds that he would normally expect on a well done
reversal. Yeah.
And we've had other friends of ours, you know, our buddy Pip or whatever, that
reversed his sour diesel cut.
Yeah. And he never even got a saleable amounts of seed.
Yeah, exactly.
Would get if he got a few dozen, you know, 50 or, you know, or whatever, you know,
whatever. So sometimes it can be essentially a failure.
Yeah. In a sense, you know, and then you go, you go hunt through a bunch of weed and
you find a few dozen seeds.
Yeah. And that's it.
So it can be pretty frustrating in that regard.
Where is it? There we go.
OK, so essentially the why why would you make them and I see it's one if you want to
have a pure version of a specific line, let's say you have a deep chunk, but you don't
have any males of the deep chunk and you want to make you want to have a pure seed line
of deep chunk and all you have left is one deep chunk clone.
You have no access to any males.
At that point, you could either hybridize it, bring in outside genetic material, a male
and cross it and then take the generations forward and select toward the deep chunk.
Or you could reverse another deep chunk or you could take a clone of the same deep
chunk, reverse that onto another clone of that same deep chunk and make seeds with that.
And it would be pure deep chunk.
And this time, all the work going forward has already been done as far as making it
purely deep chunk and look deep chunk and etc.
So it's great for having a really pure seed line.
It's great for people who, especially when a lot of people, when I see them buy
feminized seeds, they tend to be buying feminized seeds because they have a plant count
in whatever state or country that they're in.
And they can only have so many things growing and they can't afford to keep using pots,
container space, light, the money, electricity on males.
They can't keep, you know, building up a nice, even canopy if they're constantly yanking
males out and having to replace those with a new seedling and popping it, hoping the
same thing. So in a lot of cases, feminized seeds do real well, especially in Europe.
Early on, it was really popular because there are a lot of smaller apartment and house
grows there. With the open, the open market of the hemp
industry, we've seen feminized seeds and auto flowering stuff really take hold in that
market as well. I mean, auto flowering has always kind of been looked down by on by
breeders, mainly because there is a lot of problems getting good root or alice hybrids
out there early on.
Nowadays, there are companies that supposedly do a really good job with it.
I haven't tried any, but I'm sure they do much better than we used to back in the day.
But the feminized thing is is definitely a staple since the hemp times.
People are definitely I think it's becoming more comfortable in America ever since the
hemp market opened that people are more comfortable talking about buying feminized seeds
and trying to get the real science behind it now, as opposed to even five, six years
ago. You know, you could also say, too, that like on a commercial level,
you know, when you start growing acres of weed of any kind, if you have, you know, you
end up having to hunt a lot for males.
Yeah.
To, you know, yeah.
And, you know, it's really hard to get people to keep male stock for you.
Like, let's say you're moving houses or moving rooms and, you know, your friends offer to
keep their clones for you and you want to get them back.
It's really hard for people to be like, yeah, I'll take that male for you.
No problem, because nobody really wants males kicking in their room, taking up space,
possibly pollinating their their flower.
So there's a lot of advantages to having this this tool in your tool belt.
I mean, as a collector, it's hard enough to get people to back up females you love that
aren't currently popular.
Yeah, definitely.
Much less a male that they're never going to bloom.
Yeah. So that kind of breaks down the why.
I mean, I think that kind of covers it unless you have anything else on the why.
I had a little bit of color to what you said, you know, when Matt was talking about
selfing and S1s, I would say that the vast majority of elites that we have out there in
the cannabis space today are not lines anymore.
They're specific clones.
Yeah. And so one of the cool tools about it is it's not perfect, but by selfing a, you
know, clone only, if you were, you can get an idea of what else might be in there.
And that can tell you a lot about the line.
Yeah. Is it does it have a lot of diversity in it?
Is it pretty narrow?
You know, like what kind of traits does it tend to pop?
So it's it's imperfect.
But in a lot of cases from old elite cuts that have been held from the 90s or the 2000s,
it's our only way to get a look at that line.
Yeah. Because there simply are no males in existence that we know of.
There's no regular seed sitting out there.
So you only have the one example of what that genetics holds.
Yeah. And it's a really good way to in that.
Yeah. And by outcrossing it, you're never sure what's, you know, what the other plant
influenced it. Yeah.
So it allow it allows you to like look within a line and you we draw a lot of inferences
now these days from what S1s do.
It tells us information about the mother plant that we might not have otherwise had.
Yeah. But I think it's important for people to know.
And I think Matt would probably agree here that consistency usually comes from outcrosses.
You're going to get whack and weird shit in most S1s because it is inbreeding.
So you can you have a much better chance with S1s of looking for individual plants you
want to keep as new moms that might be amazing.
But the consistency might be all over the board.
Yeah. I mean, you get high highs and low lows, I think is the best way to put it.
Yeah. You could get more junk.
You could get more hermaphrodism than normal.
So outcrosses using Feminized Seed are more stable.
But S1s give you a glimpse into a line that might be your only way.
And it's important to note that like S1s might give you more high highs and low lows,
but taking the just a single generation further, whereas in the F1 generation, it taking
it another generation further makes it more diverse.
With S2s, usually it tightens the line up.
If you're bringing correctly, it tightens the line up, you know, and and so on.
S3, even more tight, even more tight.
It breeds true to type essentially when you're doing further generations of selfing.
And then you can also the more generations of selfing sometimes, you know, they talk
about plants getting weaker or unhappier because what happens is, is there are
experiences where the more you self something, the deeper you go, the more undesirable
recessives start popping up.
Yeah.
Two.
Yeah.
So it's a tool and it's a cool tool because for most, like I said, most old elites, we
have one or two clones surviving and that's it.
Yeah.
And it's a good way to keep those in a in a form that you can keep reproducing and keep
stored in a fridge.
So even when you're you're down and growing, let's say you want to take a vacation, you
can at least reaccess that genetic material, even if it might not be identical.
You can at least get that genetic material again.
And if you pop enough, you'll find something very similar.
So, yeah, that's pretty much the color that I would add to it.
It's just not right.
So that was the why, the why femina seeds.
We went over the what they are.
Simply, simply put, it's a breaking down.
It's a blocking of ethylene.
When you're reversing a female, you want to block the ethylene so that the gibberellum
flows through freely.
On the flip side, when you want to reverse a male, you wouldn't use the same product or
chemicals that you would to reverse a female.
If you're reversing a male and people do do this, you would use something like you want
to block the gibberellum and spray ethylene, you know, give it a little more ethylene,
which is like ethithon or florel.
If people are actually looking down that road.
So what I would say when it comes to feminizing, when people first ask me what to do, I'd
say step one, you procure a recipe earlier.
We talked about the recipe that I referred to as FET's recipe, but someone else wrote
it, which again is the five grams to two.
Was it a point five grams to two point five grams silver to sodium thiosulfate?
That's the old recipe.
And that works.
It may not be the most effective recipe any longer, but it will work.
So if you're if you're short on funds, any of that.
That works. You can get those chemicals fairly affordably.
And remember, when you do make the stock solution using that recipe, always keep your
stock solution and that is the undiluted mixture in the fridge until ready to mix and
spray. This ensures a long, stable shelf life.
Also, if your spray has been sitting longer than two weeks, it's imperative that you
shake it like you mean it.
Aggressively shake and mix that silver around.
In some bottles, it can cling to the surface of the plastic.
This is expected or expected in an active amount is adjusted to account for the average
amount lost from sitting if you're using the right reversal spray.
But if you're making it from your own, keep that in mind when you store it, when it
sits in the stock solution bottles, silver will build up and not come off very well off
the sides. Even if you do mix it, there's a certain amount of loss.
So you want to adjust for that.
The planning session, here's here's where it gets fun.
What do I want to reverse?
What plant do I want to receive the pollen?
How do we beat the odds of sterile reversals?
And is everything introduced to the same room all at once?
These are all things to think about when you're building your plan for doing your first
reversal. Am I going to do it in a tent?
Am I going to do it in a big open field?
Is this going to be outside? Is it going to be inside?
All these are super, super important to know.
So what plant do I want to reverse?
Let's let's pick one, for example, not so let's say we are going to reverse the L.A.
Kush, the headband L.A.
Kush. We want to reverse that.
What plant do we want to receive the pollen?
Do we want to make S1s?
Do we want to be hybrid?
I would I would say, you know, obviously it depends on people's personal goals.
But I would say, like most people want to make some amount of S1s to trap the clone only in a seed line that's not contaminated by external external genes.
Yeah. And then it usually is a combination of crossing it to other clones you like a lot.
Yeah. Or other clones that are currently popular that you think will hit a market, I guess.
Yeah. Those are probably.
I saw a question someone asked, and this is a good question.
Is an S1 a reversal technically?
Yes and no.
All reversals are not all S1s.
We refer to like if you're hybridizing something.
Let's so in this example, let's say you're reversing ChemD onto the L.A.
Kush. It's still going to be feminized, but it's not considered a self line.
It's considered an F1 reversal.
So that's that's the way we refer to it.
So I just wanted to point that out.
I'm not sure if that's the actual answer to the question you had, but I know that's one thing that a lot of people confused and call like F1 hybrids of reversals.
They refer to them as S1s and that's not quite correct.
It's not it is a selfing.
It's you're reversing the plant, but it's not selfing it or pollinating itself.
And just so people know, I can't see comments in this yet.
We haven't figured that out.
So if you don't get your question answered, it's Matt's fault entirely.
Yeah.
And R1 is R1 is for recombinant genetics.
And that is something that we are not even discussing right now.
So no, it's not R1.
See, how do we beat the odds of sterile reversals?
So this is the one thing that I talk about when I talk about reversals.
Me and me and CSI probably spend more hours discussing reversals than anything else that we talk about.
Trying to beat the odds of when a plant will reverse.
All plants do reverse.
Not all plants drop pollen.
And even that said, I'm speaking very generally when I did that 3000 plant reversal.
I remember there were two plants in a hemp field that didn't even reverse.
They just stayed there normal sex.
They were, they were, they just were not chemically able at that rate.
And it was a high rate to, to reverse.
So it is possible that plants will not reverse, but very, very rare two in 3000 plants.
If that gives you an idea of how rare, and that was in hemp as well.
Where was I at?
How do we beat the odds of sterile reversal?
So what we figured out was maybe reversing one plant and rolling all the dice on one plant, one big plant to produce a lot of pollen.
Isn't the idea.
Maybe it was slightly more than that.
Maybe it was smaller plants and more of them.
And that's how we started beating the odds and getting reversals to, to be, to be more predictable.
You know, instead of a single plant in a five gallon pot, taking up, you know, a whole light, reversing it and failing.
If we put, you know, 50 clones in a bunch of small pots in a single section under a single light, reverse all of them, the odds say you're bound to get it to happen.
So that's, that's really how we beat the odds.
Numbers beat the odds.
Maybe I could throw in something that I've noticed and that pretty much comes when I've ever asked Matt or CSI or anybody else that does a bunch of reversals.
As far as like what, what the methods are and what's frustrating about it is that to me, it seems like they can get a very successful reversal.
On a strain and they can go to make those same seeds again and they can do everything measured out exactly the same that they did before and get a different result.
Yeah.
And so sometimes they'll have a situation where they'll have like 10 plants that they're reversing and like, you know, they started doing more numbers just because a couple of them will fail.
Some of them will partially do it.
And then this many will actually successfully do it and throw off X amount of pollen.
And these are plants all within the same tiny little microclimate too.
If people don't understand this, like it, we really don't understand why.
Like if it's the angle of light changed by X amount, like they're all getting the same amount of spray.
It's so similar.
Everything's so similar, the same feed.
And sometimes it'll just be that some do and some don't.
So you could, in a, in a situation that I'm familiar with regular seed breeding, I could put a couple of males of the same thing into a room and be guaranteed that they would produce enough pollen to pollinate the entire room.
Yeah.
But you know, these, they've developed an enormous amount of strategies in order to get enough pollen to pollinate the room.
So it's not a failure.
Yeah.
I mean, every single failure is, is very expensive and a shout out to AJ Gucci, our very first super chat ever since we did monetize it on YouTube.
So thanks a lot, man.
Thanks for the five bucks.
Uh, we really appreciate it.
All right.
So now the next question, and this is probably where it gets the most complicated is everything introduced all at once.
So here's the scenario.
We've got 3000 plants of hemp cush that we're reversing onto 13,000 plants.
All right.
So the reason that I would do choose that many is because of the ratios.
We want to make sure we have enough pollen to do it.
And, um, in this situation, this hypothetical situation, it's hemp.
And one thing I've learned with hemp, which is very different from my experience in cannabis is that there's no staggering when you're introducing everything to be pollinated.
So in this scenario with hemp in this big reversal, I did, we started by reversing.
I want to say a thousand plants first, the first week.
And then two weeks later, we started reversing another thousand.
And then a half a week later, we started the last thousand.
And at that, at that last week of that last half week, we introduced all the females because usually there's about a two and a half week stagger between when you start reversing the plants and initiating into flower, the ones that are going to make the pollen.
And it's usually about two and a half, two to two and a half weeks before you introduce the females that are going to catch the pollen.
But in the hemp reversal, it started going off almost immediately upon flower, which is it reversed so fast.
Usually it takes three and a half to four weeks.
So we're talking 24 to 28 days to see balls and not even, not even to begin to drop pollen, but just to see balls three and a half to four weeks.
However, with this hemp reversal in three and a half weeks, they were dropping pollen.
So the answer to is everything introduced all at once is it depends.
Know the plants you're working with.
I always recommend if you, if this is a do or die scenario, make sure you know this plant and have done test reversals and all that, because you can lose a lot of money gambling on a reversal.
Okay.
Let's see.
Now this is me talking about the three to five, four weeks.
And then, okay.
So with our spray, there's two different instructions.
And, and this is, this is going to be with any kind of SDS base.
You can choose to spray daily, which is, you know, once a day, you can choose to spray once a week.
You can choose to spray once.
Now I'd never recommend spraying once on the first time because it's hit or miss.
But the reason I impressed that you can, you can spray once and have a reversal is because a lot of times people will practice this in a room and they only want to reverse one plant and they're spraying it.
And they're not seeing all the over spray going on all their other plants.
And all of a sudden they've got like five or six strains that they're reversing and they only had over spray once.
But it only takes once to flip a plant sometimes.
But there is no set recommendation.
Sometimes doing it once a week works better than doing it once a day.
Sometimes once a day is too much and causes it to cluster too hard.
It's just too much of the hormone.
So it really depends.
It's everything is very, very variant with this.
It takes a lot of work to find that sweet spot and every single clone and every single time you use every single clone is a different experience.
And when you're spraying, we're less concerned with covering every leaf.
We're more concerned with hitting the nodes.
So the armpits, elbows, all that.
That's where we want to spray.
We don't necessarily need to spray all over the leaves.
That's kind of a waste of the spray.
It mainly needs it in the nodes.
And we also recommend keeping as much of the spray in stock solution form as you can and only mixing exactly what you need.
Refrigeration is everything.
So, yeah, when you spray.
Oh, good.
One thing I should mention, because Matt hasn't yet, is as far as I'm aware, you know, the plant doesn't like the spray.
That much.
And so especially if you want to go with like a single spray or, you know, or a couple of strong sprays and that's it.
You could definitely think that you hurt your plant.
Yeah.
Because while you are going to, you know, hopefully your goal is to successfully induce male flowers.
But the process to get there can be a little rough.
Yeah, absolutely.
And also when you start spraying, it immediately stops stretch.
That's one of the things to consider, too, because a lot of people are like, well, you know, I'm going to flip it now and then it will stretch X amount.
I'll expect it to be this big by the time I'm done spraying.
When you start spraying, it immediately starts squatting, making that plant stretch just gets really slow.
It doesn't. It kills stretch quite a bit.
So keep that in mind for height, for space requirement, for how big you want the plant to be when it starts dropping pollen.
Keep that in mind.
You want it to be as big as it's going to be before you start spraying.
And yeah, I think this is I think that's a that covers the presentation.
Skrewston asked, does the spray you have made have to be put back in the fridge every day in between sprays or just make enough for each day?
Like I said in the presentation, stocks keep your stock solution by itself.
Make enough for each spray.
Always keep the stock solution in the fridge.
You don't really need to put the dilute solution in the fridge as long as you use it within the next few weeks.
But the stock solution can last as long as I mean, we've had people use keep it four years and use it.
And it's totally fine as long as they kept it in the fridge and mixed it well afterwards.
So it has a long shelf life if you if you give it a love.
And there's some mystery to it, too, in the sense that Matt's offering up the standard spray.
Matt has a spray himself that he offers.
That's his own tweaks on it.
There's there's a couple other gentlemen that do it, too.
And strangely, it seems like with Matt's and other people's sometimes that one that one type of spray seems to be the winner for a specific reversal.
Yeah. So the only time I've ever heard of anybody having any trouble was with triangle.
And literally what we found is you have to kill it.
You have to kill it to get it to reverse.
Like it is almost dead before you reverse it.
So one thing that I've learned is the one spray that was being used.
Was very. Phototoxic, right, very phototoxic.
That's usually a sign of no sodium thiosulfate and strong silver nitrate.
So you so it might be that whatever the sodium thiosulfate was doing was inhibiting how much the silver nitrate was actually getting in the plant.
And even though it's damaging it, it wanted more and more and more and thicker.
You know, but you can always adjust your spray ratios to compensate for that.
And some of you can play with that, play with the spray.
You don't necessarily need sodium thiosulfate to accomplish it.
I mean, silver nitrate reverses just fine on its own.
It does really burn plants.
It really hurts them. But sometimes that's necessary.
Like the plants that we reverse, we're not worried about how pretty they are or how pretty they're going to look or how much resin they're going to throw.
We're only worried about pollen.
And a lot of times that means a really ugly, burn up plant to get to that part.
So keep that in mind.
That's very helpful because a lot of people, I think, would look at it and be like, oh, what did I do?
Yeah. You know, like it's supposed to reverse and stay gorgeous looking.
Yeah. So the number one question that we get, are feminized seeds more likely to hern?
No and yes and no.
Is the answer. Again, everything varies.
If the breeder is using a clone that tends to be sexually stable, even in highly stressful situations, the chance of intersex traits will not be increased.
With that said, if a person makes seeds, whether regular or feminized with a sexually unstable clone, the likelihood is increased that the resulting progeny will be intersex.
Moral of the story, know your seed maker.
Not everyone making seeds is a breeder.
And I'll just throw in my my traditional take on herms, which is everyone complains about this one trait.
But, you know, hermaphrodism is a very successful breeding method that the plant has used for forever.
And we've decided to start breeding it out in the last 20 or 30 years.
When people were growing seeded pounds from Colombia or Thailand or Panama or Mexico or wherever, they didn't care about hermaphrodites.
Because their weed was seeded anyway.
Yeah.
Yeah, I mean, we can be thankful, but at least there are companies like Seed Flunky and Cookies bringing bringing herms back into the gene pool with Cookies.
So I'm not saying it's desirable.
I'm just saying that it's, you know, it's misunderstood.
Yeah. But you can certainly breed towards it on accident.
Yeah. I see people giving colloidal silver recipes in there.
I don't recommend colloidal silver to anyone.
It's been scientifically proven that it's very subpar to silver nitrate, sodium thiosulfate.
But you can try like if you can't you don't have access to silver nitrate.
There's a recipe. I think it's put up in here.
500 ppm for colloidal silver.
You know, you can try it at home.
I mean, silver is the action for doing that.
There are other different chemicals you can use, too.
There's one that we tried for a little bit called Ritane.
And, you know, there are other methods of action that aren't silver based that are very effective, but it's very complicated and super expensive.
Let's see. Trying to look for any new comments in here.
Is it possible to get a male and feminize seeds?
We see that a lot. For a long time, I was I admittedly was a big proponent of I'd see it.
I would see males and fem seeds pop up every now and then some lines more.
And over time.
I noticed that if people were having them tested, they were coming out female.
So what it seems like is when you see a plant showing male parts from fem seeds, typically what you're seeing is a plant that is expressing male for whatever reason.
It's not necessarily a male plant by chromosomal status, but it is a plant showing male parts.
So it's possible to see a plant show male parts from feminized seeds.
Yes. And only showing only male and being truly, you know, like not not very many female parts.
It is possible to see that.
That's what it seems like.
Cannabis is, for the most part, pretty sexually fluid.
Yeah. But it should be said that there are some rare plants out there that will not reverse.
Yeah. Or they won't make pollen, you know, or if they do reverse and make pollen, their pollen is sterile.
So there's a whole spectrum out there from failure just to reverse from it makes male flowers, but not not actual pollen.
There's a whole range of like partial reversals, we call them where like the physical reversal happens.
But what you're after active live pollen grains that are capable of fertilizing and creating seed don't actually occur.
Yeah. And we've even had friends that, you know, in order to get 50 or 100 seeds, they had to take all the male flowers and grind them up through, you know, strainers and stuff to try to extract the few grains of pollen that actually existed.
Yeah. So, yeah, here's here's my final thoughts on my little presentation I had.
I wanted to make sure I covered everything.
So I made a little presentation.
Apologies, it's not a video.
I only know slideshows.
So my final thoughts are make sure you're using a good STS based project or product.
No one uses colloidal silver anymore.
Like I said earlier, that doesn't I mean, I could if anybody needs to see it.
There's a paper by Mohan Ram from 1982 comparing them all.
And they found that, you know, STS was the supreme for reversing cannabis.
You want to think numbers, numbers, numbers.
That's how you win. That's how you beat the odds.
Numbers, numbers, numbers. Spray in the notes, spray in the armpits.
Watch for over spray.
You don't want a whole room full of herbs and you don't know what the pollen toner is.
Sometimes less is more when it comes to how often you spray.
That's very important. Sometimes spraying once a day is too much for whatever plant you're doing.
Move it down to once a week.
Keep it in the fridge.
And female reverse still have female bud structure with male parts.
They do not hang and often cluster tight.
That really covers the whole how to make them.
I don't know if you want to go into anything else and you tell on feminized seeds or if there's anything else you want to cover.
I mean, I think you did the timing thing is pretty interesting because maybe we could expound upon that.
Sure. For a second, perhaps.
You know what you're saying basically is for most people, they would want to reverse what they plan on being their male pollen sources.
Three to four weeks ahead of when they actually flower.
Two and a half, two and a half to three.
Two and a half to three. Because I just wanted to mention to people, you know, in nature, you know, nature has worked out over a long time.
The when males drop pollen versus where the females are at.
But you break that when you're doing it yourself.
And so you have to, you know, pick the right time.
And that's another art, too, where, you know, Matt and CSI and others have told me that you can have a situation where there are some rare plants that you can spray right at the same time as you bloom everything else because they reverse very fast.
Most of them are in that two and a half to three week range.
But it can vary.
And there's definitely plenty of stories that Matt could talk about, about you get a successful reversal, but you mess up on your timing.
Yeah. Yeah.
There's a there's a state of flower for the females that like it's it's formed enough pistols and enough bud that you'll if you actually want to pollinate.
Yeah. Right. And so you're trying to make sure you're introducing pollen at the perfect time for where your buds are.
Yeah. I mean, there's always too early.
Like if you introduce pollen too early, let's say let's say you miss the window and it's two weeks in.
You just have a few white hairs and they get hit.
It stops. It stops producing more white hairs for the most part.
It's like, OK, we're pollinated.
Now our job is to produce the seed and finish the seed.
And that's the plant's internal kind of memory and time clock, how it flips.
And that's the seed you're going to end up with.
Not very many seeds.
On the flip side, you want to make sure that when you pollinate, you have the the largest amount of white stigma.
I think that's right. I always get that one wrong.
I was calling pistols, but I think it's stigma.
You want to make your statement stigma.
You want to make sure you have the most most amount of white stigma and the least amount of brown.
If it's brown, it can't catch the pollen and it can't make seeds.
And it's a little up your down there.
So you want to make sure that maybe we should just explain the science for a second.
So each one of those white hairs catches a tiny little pollen grain and there's a tube in that white hair and that pollen grain then falls down that tube all the way until it hits where it's supposed to fertilize.
And that's the core beginning of the seed.
Yeah. So what he's saying is, is that if you're if you're you know, if those white hairs are damaged by wind or pests or sprays or this or that, if they're withered, if they're you know, they won't have the tube to shoot the grain.
Yeah. Into where it needs to go.
Yeah. Right.
So basically each one of those sort of each one of those is sort of a slip and slide, if you will, for a pollen grain.
Yep. One pollen grain.
A single pollen grain.
It's all it takes. Someone said they were on mushroom.
So I turned up the lights.
Oh, so so that that that's why like those those basically are out there just to catch a pollen grain in the wind.
Yeah. And then shoot it down into the actual flower itself where it can meet and fertilize and begin to grow the seed.
Yeah. That's how it does it.
And then and then the plant just focuses on on seed development, because at that point, the plant knows, OK, I've done my job.
I've flowered. I've I've I've got seed in me.
This is what I do. I make seeds.
So all the energy goes to that usually less on resin production, less on anything else.
And so people should know, too, that it tends to be not with everything, but it tends to be somewhere around, you know, the two and a half to four weeks in of the female flowering for it to develop enough white enough flower formation that it has a plethora of white hairs everywhere sticking out.
But it still has enough time left that when you fertilize, you have enough time, which is usually four to six weeks to make ripe seeds before the plant starts getting extremely overdone.
Yeah. And the bud starts rotting and issues start happening.
Yeah. This is a good question.
Have you grown seeds, for example, strain one reversed on a strain two and strain two reversed on a strain one?
How do results vary? So I'm trying to think of a good example.
I just got some bubblegum by Durban Poison and Durban Poison by bubblegum.
First time bubblegum was reversed.
Second time Durban Poison was reversed or however it was.
And we're going to see the differences in those.
But usually the mother plant tends.
And this isn't always again.
It depends.
But generally speaking, the mother plant tends to dominate most of the time.
So you're seeing little slight variances on the mother line with.
A little input from the reverse plant, but not always, sometimes that reverse plant can can dominate, co-dominate.
I mean, there's you know, there's all kinds of different ways.
I think there's a lot of discovery in that world.
And it also goes a little bit to the current state of seed making, which is most breeders do one offs and then they move on.
And so by definition, in order to get what what was just asked, you would have to reverse the you would have to reverse one female to do one breeding and then at a separate time reverse the other side of it.
You know, you'd have to do both.
So it's two separate breedings in order to get the parents flipped.
Yeah. Yeah.
It's it's a task is not again, not all not every time is a success.
So sometimes it might be four trials just to get two things just to flip the parents.
You know, but it is something that we we talk about fairly often is like, does the does the parent male or female make a difference?
Yeah. Is there an influence in that regard?
And I think it's an area of reversals that needs a lot more study.
Yeah, I think I think it's just like everything in cannabis, whether it's male or female.
It just depends on how how the alleles line up.
You know, like it just it's always going to line up differently using a male onto another genetic line or a female reverse female into another genetic line and vice versa, switching them.
It'll always line up differently.
So you'll see things similar between the lines.
Obviously, there will be some similar expressions, but there are going to be differences, too.
You're going to see some expressions occur more often in one of those crosses versus the other cross, if that makes sense.
Sixty one likes.
There's more people in here than that.
Please like, share and subscribe.
I always forget to say that since we're on YouTube, we can like, share and subscribe.
Well, yeah, I mean, there there is I think that there's a lot of feminized breeding, certainly techniques and knowledge that needs to be expanded upon.
We might we as far as cannabis goes, we might still be in the, you know, the child stage of our level of knowledge.
Yeah. And, you know, there's a lot of room in there for science and for experiments to teach us various aspects of things.
Yeah. You know, and a lot of and that's why so many breeders swap stories, because they're always extremely curious how the plants respond.
Yeah. And why do they respond a certain way and why do they respond differently at a different time?
But they were treated the same.
So there's a you know, there's a I tend to think that there's probably a threshold which varies from strain to strain on how much silver is needed to get the correct effect.
And in some cases, you're probably overloading the plant.
And in some cases, it probably needed more.
But I'd say, yes, it's not even plant to plant, it's plant per time, per plant, per time, you know, like it's going to be.
Because you could do the same strain, the same clone at the same strain the next time, the same amount is not going to work.
So it's like per plant.
And it's interesting, too, like I even think like methods of reversal can be can be played with as well.
I think STS has been settled upon because it it works better than the alternatives.
Yeah. But, you know, we're still experimenting and playing around with different techniques, especially with hard to reverse plants that we really are interested in.
Making feminized seeds.
Yeah. You know, and things that often fail with STS.
Is there a different pathway?
I mean, Matt mentioned some other products earlier on the show.
Yeah, that guy's a dick to me.
So I kept pushing his product forever as much as mine.
But I don't do that no more because he's been.
No, I mean, I just I just mean in the sense like I wasn't even talking about him.
I was talking about the what was the other product that you mentioned?
Retain.
Retain. Yeah.
There's there's there's different methods of reversals that were that that have barely been experimented with.
Yeah, there's there.
We're going to find some some stuff in the near future, I think.
It's just it's been a bunch of us, us like pseudo farmers that are just weed people trying to figure it out.
And like I'm not a scientist and I'm one of the guys been figuring it out, trying to figure out some of the longest.
And that's not appropriate.
There's people way better than me and more qualified to do this.
And I hope I hope in the next few years we're going to learn a lot more as they come.
In agriculture, they can bring in colleges and universities.
They can bring in ag departments.
They can get scientists, you know, who are helping kids work on their PhDs and stuff, study certain things.
And so, yeah, like the typically the farmer isn't actually doing a bunch of wide scale experimentation.
Yeah. You know, one thing that I'm learning as I'm talking to more and more academics, whether it's
interviewing them for our show or like trying to schedule that or just trying to talk to them about genetics in general.
And these are the people that are working hands on in the universities with the genetics.
And it's a one the one thing that I've run into the most is that they really don't think cannabis people have anything to offer them as far as knowledge of history, knowledge of science, knowledge of genetics.
They really, really don't think that we have a good handle on what has happened over the years.
And they are of the opinion that and when I say they, this is this is pretty much everyone that's done any kind of genomics work in cannabis, be it the big company that did it for a while, the universities.
They are still using the method that crowdsourcing and getting whoever when they crowdsource, let's say they crowdsource Blue Dream, whatever they crowdsource.
And the most occurs, that is what they use as their legacy clone and trying to explain to scientists how that does not work for cannabis, because the tighter something is held, like the more rare it is, usually the tighter it's held and it doesn't proliferate the community as much.
It works in reverse.
It tends to work in reverse.
And you really have to be on the ground, have access to these people in the circles.
And they have to trust you before they're going to tell you stories.
And I think that I'm learning that they think we're very incapable of getting this done.
And it's going to be one of those bridges that we have to learn to cross and work with each other on, because that's going to bust some egos.
Like, you know, like I feel like I put in a lot of work to history stuff.
When people tell me that, I'm like, well, you know, why is it true?
How do I know? Because we put in the work, you know, but they don't see it that way.
So it's going to be interesting establishing those boundaries and and new relationships and science and working against each other's egos.
Because it's hard to talk to PhDs when you've been doing something your whole life and they've been doing it for a year.
They still think they're going to know much better than you.
And in many cases they do.
I mean, you know, there's a.
Not exactly sure what to say about that one, but.
I'll say this, right, which is not exactly what you were talking about, but I have worked on various projects as things have
become more legal and things of that nature, right?
And, you know, I've crossed paths with, you know, conventional ag guys and stuff.
And there was a big fear in our world where we just thought that, oh, man, once the once the ag people get a hold of it, right.
They're just going to crush and we're just these little hobbyists and they're going to push us out of the way.
OK, and I think a lot of those ag people think it, too.
Oh, yeah, for sure.
They come into it with a big swinging dick and they're totally confident in it, you know, and they flail.
Yes, because they realize all of a sudden that many of the chemicals and many of the different sprays and things that they use in their conventional agriculture are specifically banned.
Yeah. And they've based their career on doing it and they're used to growing.
Well, I get X amount of tonnage of blueberries per acre.
Yeah. And that's what I'm going for.
And I grow the same clone and I treat it the same way, you know, and I get X amount of fruit or I get X amount of produce or I get whatever.
And this produce has been bred to make my life easier.
Yes. Like almost all agriculture is not bred for the consumer to be happy.
It's bred for the farmer to produce a lot of it.
And ship it easier and store it longer.
And I'll give a perfect example like tomatoes, tomatoes.
Their primary goal is weight.
They don't want it to rot.
They don't want its skin to crack.
They want it to store and travel well.
They want to be able to pick it green, ship it green, then blast it with ethylene and ripen it before they put it out on the shelf.
Yeah. And then after all these different factors come in, then taste and texture and flavor come in.
Where cannabis is the opposite of most of this shit, everything you go into the grocery store and you buy vegetables, they're like the blue.
I'm like, I'm not trying to dis blue dream, but I'm just going to say like blue dream has enough qualities that it's an obvious commercial cropper.
Yeah. Right.
All your food, for the most part, is an obvious commercial cropper.
That's what it was developed for.
And so big ad gets involved and they're like, what are you doing growing all this stringy bullshit?
Yeah. Why aren't you growing?
You know, and like, what do you mean the consumer likes it?
We dictate what what the consumer even can eat.
Yeah. These tasteless strawberries give us X amount more per acre.
So that's why we grow them.
Yeah. The flavor ones, they tend to rot and they don't give us nearly as much weight.
And so even eat normal tomatoes, all they eat cherry now.
So, you know, well, that's where the whole heirloom thing came in.
Yeah. Yeah. Because we just went back to like when people bred tomatoes to taste good.
Yeah. And they taste so much better than the ones that are just made for weight.
So, you know, to get back to what I'm saying is like I thought with big ag, a lot of the techniques they've relied on for most of their career, you know, they can't rely on in cannabis because it's banned.
Yeah. And cannabis is a much different.
So they don't have the lifetime of knowledge of growing that specific crop.
And they also can't go to universities or older guys in the industry and just learn from them about this specific crop.
Most big ag has been building on the people that came before them and big ag for decades and decades now.
Yeah. Nobody has to reinvent the wheel and big ag.
And right now in science, what like kind of what I was talking about was that they really genuinely do not think.
One, I don't even know that they know that there is like a clandestine nature to cannabis and that there are these guys in these hills that have these stories.
So they really the person people I talk to, they really didn't think that anybody was really doing a good job of keeping track in cannabis.
They didn't know that anybody was even trying.
Like they didn't care to look, didn't nothing.
And the reason why I brought up that story about big ag is it the same thing that Matt was just talking about with PhDs.
They have a lot of assumptions looking from outside in.
Right. And they don't really realize the depth and the level that already exists within it.
Yeah. And they have there's a lot that they can teach us, but there's a lot that they have to learn.
Yeah. And that's that's where I'm coming up against a lot of problems.
I mean, I realize that there's a lot that I can learn from them that I genuinely think that they don't think that there's anything they could learn from any of us.
And it's it's humbling because it's like, wow, they really don't take any of us seriously.
But then it's also concerning to me.
And I'm really trying to make an effort to make inroads there because these are the same people that are going to be writing the history books and the textbooks in universities and colleges that tell the history of cannabis.
And if we don't make those inroads and the person that eventually ultimately is in charge of writing these textbooks, because there's going to be a few of them, a group of them.
If they don't go look at the real history, they get to write the history and it's lost except for these little podcasts here and little bits of notes of history.
But that's all lost anyways.
And doesn't it's only real if it's in the in the textbooks and history books.
And we've seen that happen time and time again.
So I think it's important to make these inroads.
But I'm definitely, definitely having a hard time doing it.
There are really nice people over there.
Even the people who don't necessarily understand the need for us or want to work with any of us are pretty nice.
And I think if they could just be shown our culture and understand how it worked since the 60s and 70s, they would have a much better appreciation for the people who did keep long before I came around, keep the history going and keep tabs on all this stuff.
So I hope it'll work.
I hope it'll happen.
But who knows?
I mean, there's always been a sense of there's the above board of what's going on in the world.
And then there's the underground and there's the black markets and there's all kinds of things.
And so, you know, arrogance about what you don't know is a common human trait.
You know, you get older and you get humbled by how much you don't know and by how many things get turned on their head about what you think you know.
Yeah. And the problem with them when they're trying to do the cannabis, the cannabis, you know, I don't want to call it genome or whatever, but like when they were doing it for, say, humans, they could go to like pure Scandinavians.
Oh, yeah. Or pure Aborigines, you know, or this or they could go and they could test so many different humans and they could build a basis.
Yeah. You know, and you know, and with cannabis, they can't really do that.
Yeah. And so, you know, these people would never get invited to any inner circle tables anywhere because they're assholes about it.
And they get it on their sleeve.
They do. I mean, I've said this before on the podcast, but I'll say it again.
You know, they like even right now, that's the problem that you have with testing, right, is that testing, to my knowledge, you know, testing for potency doesn't explain what kind of a high it gives me.
No, not at all.
There's a lot of what what people consider 30 percent, you know, or 35 percent or something that we all consider to be extremely bland.
Yeah. And boring.
And it testing can't tell you why this high makes me want to like giggle and run around and crawl out of my chair and have a little anxiety.
Yeah. And why this high wants to make me pull up the covers and is warm and comforting and couch lock and easy potato chips.
I learned a new term yesterday.
I mean, it's new to me. Obviously, it's not a new term.
New to me term called biphasic.
And it was used to describe cannabis.
I believe Chimera said it.
He said the cannabis is biphasic.
Remember, we've learned through science that, you know, things that are in the six percent, I want to say he said 12 percent or somewhere in there have a more, you know, peppy, jingly type high to most people, generally speaking.
And things are, you know, that are in the upper 20s to whatever can give you paranoia and then have a quicker descending high faster.
So it's biphasic.
I like that word. I wanted to bring it in.
Thanks. Yeah. I mean, but I guess the point that I was trying to make is that right now there's all this testing going on and they think they know what the hell they're talking about.
And they're not even testing for most terpenes.
Yeah. Most they're not even testing for most cannabinoids.
Yeah. They're testing for the known ones that are the most common.
Yeah. And so if there's one hundred and fifty cannabinoids or something and they're testing for 30.
Are there's hundreds of terpenes and they're testing for two dozen.
Yeah. And they don't even really realize how they all blend together.
Science is in its infancy on it.
And so, you know, science is the best tool that we have.
But like they only know what they know until they're proven wrong.
Yeah. I remember early on when CBD became a big thing.
Do you remember that they were saying that there's no psychoactive effects or effect on the central nervous system with CBD?
So for a long time, I didn't think that CBD, like giving someone a large dose of CBD would do anything to them.
But I mean, it's this way, right?
The human body is one of the most studied parts of science.
Because it's one of the most important things to us, right, because it's us.
Yeah. And what year did that Israeli scientist discover that we had a cannabinoid system within our body?
Oh, I don't know. Who is it?
Molution. I want to say I think it was I think it was in the 80s.
Was it 80s? I think it was in the 80s.
You could probably look it up. No.
No, I'm going to say 80s.
It could be. It could be.
I could look it up, but I'm going to say I don't think we discovered we had a cannabinoid system until I was alive.
Oh, really? Yeah, it could be.
And so we didn't even realize that like that existed, I don't think.
No. Yeah.
It's really hard to even figure it out because like it was a legal thing to research, you know?
Yeah. Yeah. They go through so many hoops to even do it.
It's pointless.
So I don't know. I mean, they well, that's the other thing, too, is that when it comes to cannabis and cannabinoids,
they only allowed study for harm.
Yeah. So to prove that it was bad.
Yeah. A lot of these PhDs and stuff like that, like, you know, they basically it's like they get handed this thing that like no one is no one has studied extensively in decades.
Yeah. And they think they understand it, but they really don't.
Yeah. They don't know, they just handed it and they're hoping to figure it out and they're smart and they're used to figuring stuff out, but they will eventually need people to figure
it out correctly that have been doing it for a long time.
But whether they're going to figure that out or not, I mean, I remember everybody was telling the company that begins with the P that was doing all the genetic stuff.
They're everybody that every consult was telling them, this is who you need to consult.
You need to talk to this guy because he's really good with X amount of clones in the United States.
He can get you the legacy cuts to X, Y, Z, and everything is spelled out for him.
And in the end, all they said was, no, we'll just crowd source them.
Don't worry about it. Yeah, sure.
Well, I don't think they obviously had a different goal from the beginning.
Yeah. You know, I don't know.
I think that in our lifetime, it's going to be immensely changing what they discover about it.
Yeah. And I don't think that.
Ah, here we go.
The existence of cannabinoid receptors in the brain was discovered in studies in the 1980s.
Yeah, yeah. It's Kristen said 88, but they discovered T.H.C.
in the 60s.
I think that was Malucham, the guy was referring to the Israeli, the Israeli dude that was figuring out.
It shows how in 1960s they discovered T.H.C.
and cannabinoidol. Yeah.
And that led to the 1988 discovery of the endocannabinoid system.
So they discovered it before they knew how it interacted with our brain.
And the endocannabinoid system is the largest receptor system and the master regulatory of homeostasis in the human body.
There you go. And we didn't even know it existed until 1988.
Yeah. And that's not that long ago, really.
No, no, it's not that long ago.
I mean, I was like, you know, it's not that long ago.
It's only been a number. It's already 40.
And, you know, it's only it's been a number.
It's only been a few decades, really.
Yeah. Three decades.
You know, and and so how does that all interact or why does it do what it does?
I think PhDs are going to be shocked when they start delving into it and they think of something as simple.
And it's going to be like a lot of things that was spread by war and conquest and trade and move and migration, human slavery.
And yeah, and all there's going to be an enormous amount of of interest that pocked because it's going to tie into all that stuff.
Yeah. Which is kind of far away from Femini seeding, but, you know, it's all part of it.
I mean, I think the only other thing that was going to touch on a little bit and I think we've already touched on it pretty well, in fact, was the Bode thing.
I know that was big news this week and everybody was talking about it.
Bode working with cookies, he made the announcement.
Just wanted to say again, that's my boy.
I'm going to stick with them through everything.
Y'all don't like it tough.
Like, I don't I don't think there would have been a Breeders Syndicate without Bode.
I would have never started any of this stuff without him.
I you know, if I get why people are are hesitant, I've seen a lot of partnerships have gone down in flames over the years.
I just hope if anybody can do it, he can.
I mean, the only thing I'll say on that is that.
The Internet is certainly a place where people can pile on.
Sure. And I do understand people's feelings because and I'll say this, Bode has a special place, in my opinion, in the cannabis world.
Sure. And that he is pretty well universally regarded as a great human, a traveler, an explorer, someone who brings back all kinds of oddball genetics.
Yeah. And that aren't popular at all.
Weird sativas and odd things from his travels.
And he preserves them in various ways.
And he's just a generally nice human.
And so a lot of breeders I know look up to him as sort of an example of, you know, how to be right.
And then he goes and joins the Borg.
Yeah. Right.
And so a bunch of people, you know, while they wouldn't they wouldn't harsh on other folks for doing that, that doesn't seem like it fits with Bode's purist, you know, adventurer, you know, heart, soul, spirit kind of person.
Yeah. And the only thing I'll say to that is that in a rapidly changing environment where, you know, where a lot of where there's a lot of change happening fast.
Yeah. People are trying to figure out how to how to adapt, how to survive, how to move forward.
How can I make money ethically?
How can I you know, how can I.
And well, there's a bunch of people that aren't even thinking about how to make it ethically.
They're just thinking how to make it.
But yeah. Yeah.
But but, you know, but how to make it ethically is even harder.
Yeah. You know, and it's hard to be an outsider rebel warrior.
Who is never going to touch base with anyone that's larger or corporate.
Correct. Because large corporate groups and large players and stuff like that are now for better or for worse.
They are going to have a not the only hand, but they are going to have a stake in the cannabis industry moving forward.
Yeah, they are.
And so how do you interact with them?
Do you try to work with them from the inside?
Do you try to just lob Molotov cocktails against them and hope they burn and go away?
Yeah, that's my method.
That's what I do. You know, and still going to do it.
But, you know, and and so there's there's there's an impact there where you see a lot of different people trying to figure out, well, how do I move forward?
Oh, man, the environment has totally changed.
The market has totally changed.
My sales are in the toilet.
This is how I support myself.
This is how I support my children.
What do I do?
How do I make an impact?
You know, and so, you know, I will I will say that there's a lot of debate going on in the community about that.
Everyone's free to have their opinions about him.
Sure. To people that actually know him, you know, he's still a good hearted, good person.
Yeah, he's the same dude he was the day before he made that deal.
You know, and he still has dozens of lines that probably no one watching would ever grow.
Yeah, because they're weird and they're odd and they're from here and they're from Cambodia and they're from the highlands and Nepal and they're ugly as sin.
And he has a love of cannabis and he loves his family.
Well, that's just really it, isn't it?
Like the people that are upset.
All I can say is if you're upset about it and if you're worried that, you know, like the mainstream people are going to start seeing some of Bode's stuff.
There was a time where you could buy Bodie seeds and that wasn't happening.
And everybody had that chance to support him.
Bodie should have been more successful than cookies, in my opinion.
He should have been way bigger than Compound or any of them.
It doesn't make any sense to me.
And people have that voting privilege with their money.
That's how we vote in our cannabis community is with our money.
We don't like someone we want to have gone.
Don't buy their stuff. That's it.
They'll go away eventually.
But we had that chance with Bodie and that we've had the chance with a lot of the bigger companies that we're going to watch slowly go away and people are going to get mad at their decisions for going away and retiring and doing all this or just still growing, not selling seeds.
But we all had the chance to change that.
And not enough people gave a care at the time, I think.
And, you know, if you look at it like this, because, you know, breeders unfairly mostly, but some, you know, a lot of them are regarded as artists in a sense.
You know, you watch some of these like acceptance speeches for Oscars or whatever.
And a lot of famous actors, though, admittedly, they took a bunch of crappy jobs for work.
Yeah. And they hope that they get successful enough that they can take some chances and make some really cool stuff every once in a while.
In between these commercially successful ventures.
Yeah. You know, and, you know, I'm not a musician or whatever, but if you're a musician and you want to survive, it really helps if you make a hit single every now and again.
Playing punk rock ain't going to make you rich, as I found out.
Ain't gonna make you rich.
You know, like, you know, there's a joke.
Oh, I don't hear a single.
Yeah. Right. Are you going to get popular?
Are you like because so there's an aspect of commercialism where sometimes you have to bend a bit in order to keep doing the cool stuff that you want to be doing.
Exactly. And you can be like, oh, this this artist should stay completely pure and not even touch capitalism.
But, you know, we live in a capitalistic society and and, you know, people are going to be weighing who to work with, how to work with them.
What's ethical? What's not?
Can I change them from the inside?
Can I do this? Can I improve things?
Can I move it in my direction a little bit?
And I think that goes with a lot of art.
I wouldn't I wouldn't have taken the chances.
But he did with that particular group.
I admit that like I wouldn't have done it.
But I'm but that's I'm very pessimistic about everyone and certain things.
Maybe maybe there's a reason he's the one that did.
Maybe there's a reason he was there and he's the one that, you know, got that chance.
He's he's he's much more open to people not all being snakes and seeing the good in people than someone like me.
So I would say that.
And I'm glad he is mad.
Matt's always telling me, oh, you should have expected that.
And I'm like, oh, I don't know.
He was nice, you know, I didn't see any of that.
And you'd be like, oh, you're good, Lord.
You're just you're just naive.
And so, you know, I'm not even like I'm not even saying I like like Matt.
I'm not even saying I defend the partnership necessarily.
I certainly defend the person.
Yeah. Everyone is capable of making mistakes.
You know, whether it's a mistake or not will only be known in time.
Yeah, correct. You know, because Cookie has a bunch of clout, you know.
And so if if we widen the gene pool, like who do you want them to work with?
See, junkie. They already did that.
Yeah, exactly. Chris Compound.
Yeah. You know, like like think about the people they're already working with.
Wouldn't you want somebody with the power and reach of Cookie to work with someone
cool and bring better things and try to have some better herb?
I mean, that's kind of the goal.
And, you know, believe me, I wish all of us artists out there were independently
wealthy and were able to make every decision based on a strict series of ethics
and a punk rock ethos of fuck the man.
Yeah. You guys see what happens.
You guys see my company over the years.
It doesn't work as a company.
Like it just doesn't.
You can't you can't just buck everyone.
It doesn't work.
There's a totally random story that I always think I talk about with Matt because
punk is his world, not really mine.
But I remember watching this interview with the lead singer and guitarist of Suicidal
Tendencies, and he was talking about how in punk rock they basically at some point
want you in your 40s to be homeless, dead broke, addicted to heroin.
All your equipment doesn't work and you commit suicide via a bomb on stage and you
go out just like a raging inferno to the man.
That's punk rock.
And he's like, you get a little older and he's like, you want a guitar tech.
Yeah. You want to be able to sleep in a decent room.
The kids that you made, you want to actually be able to feed them and maybe send them
to college, even though you're punk as fuck.
Yeah. You know, I don't want to strap a bomb to my chest and die at 45 on stage.
Everything breaking, screaming, howling homeless.
Yeah. But he's like, that's what the fans expect of me.
And so there's there's always that push pull between art and commercialism.
Yeah. And where on the line do you fall?
And, you know, sometimes a lot of times, right, in order to make cool art, you have to
deal with commercialism.
Yes. And we got lucky for a time in that when 215 came, cannabis for a while was quite
profitable and the risk was lowered.
And it allowed this amazing burst of creativity and energy where a lot of small time
farmers could take their heart's desire and do whatever they wanted with.
And then we grew it to the point where it got popular and it went from underground to not
underground and then big money starts coming in and rich kids and everything else.
And now all of a sudden the scenes all twacked.
Yeah. And then they give us hemp and all the hemp fields start growing, weeding it.
Everybody gets greedy.
Now we've got too much weed.
It's too cheap. No one's got weed jobs.
And there you go. Corporate quality of weed has gone way down.
You know, the quality and dispensaries is way down.
I mean, it's a big shift.
And so if he wants to survive, you know, everyone's looking around at how do I survive to
be able to do more things that I like?
Yeah. And everyone out there is going to have to make their own generalized opinion about
which steps are acceptable and which steps aren't, I suppose.
Yeah, that's all within everyone's purview.
But, you know, it was surprising to see the outpouring of anger because I just don't
think that they expected it to see it from Bodie.
I was shocked because this was announced like.
Four or five months ago, I wasn't super shocked, to be honest, because when it was
announced, they had Berner had to turn comments off and he deleted the post.
Yeah. You know, so there was a big outpouring of rage and then it kind of quieted down for
a while. And then, you know, then it happened and then it's getting released and it's
getting released with the CD and that it's and, you know, it's the community is split in
a lot of ways right now.
Yeah, I think the country.
Yeah. The the the there's a fracturing of the scene and there's a lot of new people
jumping in the scene and they and there's a lot of change happening and it's very it's
it's very intense for people our age.
Yeah. That have been in it and it's been one kind of consistent way for some time.
Yeah. This is the this is the first real cannabis recession I think we've ever seen in
cannabis period, not just our age, but any age this severe.
I'm pretty sure. Yeah, you know, and so it used to be it used to be a small subculture.
Yeah. And and, you know, and now it's now it's like it's going to be a ginormous
industry. Yeah.
And with that comes changes.
And and, you know, somebody like Berner couldn't exist 20 years ago.
No, no.
Because he's all scared out.
He's just all I mean, forget about scared out.
It's just like there was no marketing of self.
Yeah. You couldn't be famous.
Famous people got arrested.
Yeah. You know, and.
And, you know, you weren't able to market yourself that way.
And so there's just there's just been a lot of change, and I think change will continue to
happen. And the important thing is that the people you like need to figure out a way to
survive so they can keep making cool shit.
Yeah. Well, you know, I think we've hit already the hour and a half mark and we started
talking about maybe shortening the time a little bit.
Sure. Let's do it.
So I wanted to real quick, we are starting to do different things like yesterday, I put
up a string review for one of Santa Cruz Goat Farm strains from Pax.
So check that out. We're going to try to be doing all kinds of like cool content, like
small things. Not so going to do smaller little talks to and try to get get more stuff
going for everyone. We just I think we're getting approved for the YouTube membership
stuff. So we're going to incorporate that.
We have our super chats available now.
Someone gave us our first super chat earlier.
So that was super cool.
I didn't even know if it worked or not.
So it's cool to see it work.
We really appreciate it from the bottom of our heart.
And yeah, I guess that's it.
But you got right. It's calm for all your seeds and spray.
Not so dog. You've got anything coming up you want to talk about or anything cool?
Maybe before next week.
OK, I'll be I'll be quiet this week.
All right. Well, it sounds good then.
I guess that's it.
All right. Hold on. I got it.
I got to bring up the stuff real quick because I got to have the exit song.
So, oh, man, I've got to do this right.
Right. OK, hold on.
Hold up. I got to put up the thing, the background first.
We got to take this off and see you next week.
