Welcome to Breeder Syndicate 2.0, where we explore the history of a clandestine scene.
Researching everything from cannabis strain history, old smuggling tales from the first
person perspective, to breeding science and news on current subculture.
I'm your host Matthew, and I'll occasionally be joined by my homie NotSoDog, breeder and
grower from Mendocino, to speak on these subjects and sometimes interview other participants.
Our goal is to document this history before it's written by corporations and others who
just weren't there.
Let's start righting some wrongs.
Welcome to the underground.
Welcome Breeder Syndicate.
I'm Matt.
This is NotSoDog.
We're just going to jump in here.
NotSoDog has an intro for this one.
It's a very, very special, special episode, and we hope you enjoy it.
So here, NotSo, go ahead.
So I just wanted to give an intro into what we're going to be talking about for a bit.
I'm pretty excited about this one because it's got one of my oldest friends on it.
I've been trying to keep his name and his visage secret for a while to protect him or
whatever, but he has decided that he is willing to come on and chat in person.
And so the guy that I call Staten Island is my very, very old friend, Gabby.
He's the reason why I got the dog.
He's the reason why I got the super skunk.
He's the guy that brought them west.
You're going to hear a bunch of stuff of him talking, which some of it will probably be
pretty new.
But he was buddies with Klopp, which a lot of people call Weasel.
He played a pretty important role, in my opinion, about keeping the chem dog alive and around.
The guys on the west coast, SkunkVA, IC Collective, myself, all of us really owe it to him.
For the reason why we got the chem dog and our little crew kept it together for a long time.
And he's done a variety of things in cannabis during his life.
He's not very well known, but he played some pretty important roles.
And so in addition to being my really old friend, I'm super glad that he's going to
finally show his face and start talking a bit.
He might be a little bit embarrassed about it or discount what he did, but in my opinion,
he's pretty darn important in the scene.
And he really did a lot to push cannabis forward, not just from a genetics perspective, but
from teaching people how to grow weed and opening up stores when it was pretty risque.
And so I'm just really stoked to be able to bring a super old friend on and chat.
And I hope you all like it.
And this will be a multi-part episode.
So I guess kick back and we'll insert this on each one of the episodes so that there
is some kind of clarity for each one.
One other point is that because he is the way that he is, you're going to hear a lot
of people's real names, maybe not so much their internet handles or their, you know,
their forum names or whatever, because he might not know those.
So a lot of people, when he talks about Klopp, for instance, Klopp is Weasel, who is one
of the critical people early on in the Sour Diesel tale.
You know, Ben is IC Collective, Jason is Skunk-Fa or Skunk-VA as the case may be, I suppose.
And so he drops names so often, there's no way for Matt and I to really edit it out.
So that's what it is.
Here you go.
That's who we are.
Oh, also, one more thing.
The audio is kind of all over the place.
As far as the clarity, there's some feedback from, it's just, we're doing these interviews
and it was so important to get this.
It's one of the main reasons that this clone made it to guys like me, CSI.
The rest of the country for what it is.
And it was so important to get it done that we felt that audio quality was less important
than audio content.
So we hope you'll excuse that too.
So.
And enjoy.
I almost brought it up, but I didn't want to bring it up when we were recording.
Because I was like, I was like, maybe he'll hate me and want me to cut it out.
Do you remember when we were like the people that were taking all that BHO down to all
the clubs and like none of them had ever seen it and we had to teach them how to use it
and like spot them stuff because they had no BHO.
They'd never seen it before.
They didn't even believe that it was.
This is one of my favorite stories to tell.
Let's tell it.
Let's tell it.
I don't think I'm incriminating myself 30 years.
I don't think I'm incriminating myself 30 years later.
No, I mean, it was more like 20 ish, but still.
Yeah, I mean, like what I told Francis before we start was I was doing BHO in 2006 and I
thought I was a fucking pioneer.
So hearing this, go ahead.
Tell your story.
OK, so did you hit record yet?
Yeah, because I don't see it recording.
It's recording.
I do.
Oh, weird.
So this was in, well, I opened up the Garden Spout in 2002 and so I think I got fired from
Hydro Depot and that's another story about fired from Hydro Depot.
It must have been either 2000 or 2001.
I think it was 2000 and it was that time in between.
Right, exactly.
Because the only reason why I was doing it was trying to figure out how to make money,
you know, in between doing that.
Once I opened up the Garden Spout, I wasn't fucking around like that.
But I got shown how to make BHO.
Unfortunately at the time, like the way we knew how to do it was like in a PVC pipe.
Yes.
That's how we got to do it.
Now, luckily, even though I was open blasting, I lived like on top of a hill, you know, and
it wasn't just like doing it indoors.
I was doing it like where there was outdoor ventilation happening.
Put like a coffee filter on the bottom of a PVC pipe.
Silk screen too.
Remember we had all that silk screen?
We only made it to coffee filters in 2006.
And then on the other end, there would just be a cap with a hole in it that you could
just-
That you could fit the fitting on.
Oh!
Yeah, it fit the fitting perfectly.
This is just for my dab rig, okay?
I'm not like open blasting.
So I made the first BHO I had ever seen or heard of.
I wish I can remember where I learned about it.
Who taught you?
Who was teaching you that early?
I was trying to think the other day of who taught you, but Gabby had this property in
the hills above where I live now.
And he had like, I don't know, it was like 28 acres or something like that.
And so we never had any of the many stories of explosions or terror that went on because
we literally went out and like on top of a hill in the middle of a field and away from
all electronics and closed space.
You were not doing this in San Diego garages?
No, we did it literally on a mountain, on a hilltop.
I can't claim the same.
A hilltop with wind.
But we had to get, like there wasn't any machines yet.
It was literally like he said, it was skinny PVC tubes that we cut and made ourselves.
Disclaimer, do not do this.
No, don't do this.
Worst way to do this.
Don't even use an ISO 2.
Don't do any of it.
You know, there was no, we didn't know anything about purging.
The only way that we purged was by stirring it, you know, a little bit.
How do we get the bubbles to go?
What we used to do is I would have a glass dish with all the solvent, you know, extracted
stuff, but it was still bubbling.
And in order to make it happen faster, we would put that dish in another dish where
we would pour boiling water.
Boiling water, yeah.
Boiling water like we had already, you know, had it collected there, boiling right there.
And we would do that and then we would do it again until it stopped being active.
Until the bubbles went.
I mean, it obviously still had plenty of butane in it, you know.
We didn't know.
I would put it in a jar and we would bring it to the cannabis clubs in Oakland and in
San Francisco and in Berkeley.
And they had never seen anything like it.
And it, you know, for the time, this shit was amazing.
Yeah.
But this was prior to, you know, the modern dab rig.
Sure.
There was none of those accoutrements.
Like we would smear it on top of weed.
Then we figured out that like there was those old like like disc puck looking charcoals
and we would like light the charcoal and drop it on top and then smoke.
Yeah.
And then Gabby and I would go down to the bay and like the store owners, it was such
a foreign substance to them that like we would have to spot it to them to like the owners
and like leave it with them and wait for the parts of the story.
Oh, you sure go.
Yeah, go.
We used to smoke it out of crack pipes.
Yeah, that was like, or, you know, you know, well, not like a straight to but just like
a bowl with a bowl.
Yeah.
A meth pipe.
A meth pipe.
More of a meth pipe.
I don't really.
I never smoked crack or meth, thank God.
So I don't.
Yeah, I did.
I did.
And that's what they are.
Yeah.
So we would put a crack on the bottom and then with a lighter, we would heat it up and
it would start boiling and we would smoke it like that.
And so I brought it to some clubs in San Francisco and Oakland and Berkeley.
And they were like, I don't know, this is just, it's too crack like.
They loved the product.
Right.
You know, they loved it.
And so at the time I was offering it to them for $50 a gram.
Okay.
And you know, they enjoyed smoking it with me, but they were just like, you know, this
is a medicinal club and this looks too much like crack and it doesn't give us the right
vibe.
You have to use tools that are weird with it.
So what we did was, you know, one day I'm like thinking, what the fuck am I going to
do with this shit?
Nobody wants it.
I made it.
I didn't know what to do with it.
And so I had some trim and I got some of this goopy extract and I started just pressing
the trim into the extract until it would accept no more.
And so it was basically like at least 75% trim being held together by a little bit of
extract.
Moon rock.
And I brought, I brought this to the clubs and you could just rip a little piece off,
stick it in a pipe and smoke it.
And they freaked out.
Can you tell me your first experience smoking that stuff?
The first time you ever went from smoking flour to smoking something that strong.
So I actually had been smoking oils way prior to that because, um, I knew people who were
bringing oil back from Jamaica and this was like in the eighties.
Oh, we want to hear this.
They would bring back, um, green honey oil and clear honey oil in like, um, what is it
called?
Shampoo bottles.
Yeah.
You know, with like bags inside and you know, this stuff made it.
And we used to just get joints and just coat the outside of them and just fucking make
it super disgusting.
But that was my first experience in smoking concentrates.
I don't know how the Jamaican honey oil was made.
I'm certain it wasn't from, uh, from BHO.
I think they were using things like the ISO two extractor.
If you remember that, it looked like a spaceship, like at tears.
Iso two.
Iso two.
Isomerizer two.
Yeah.
Something like that.
Yeah.
That makes sense.
Um, but yeah, so that was the first time I ever smoked concentrate was in the eighties.
Um, that type of stuff.
But so when I brought this, my favorite part of the story is I brought them the pure oil,
like the best quality concentrate they had ever seen to that point.
And they, they were just like, I don't know how to deal with this.
I brought them stuff that I put trash in.
You know, I literally just put as much trim on it as it would possible.
Like I knew it was done when the trim would just fall off and not stick to it anymore.
And I brought it to them and they were buying it for me 50 bucks a gram, selling it for
a hundred bucks a gram.
And we made like, you know, like I said, at first we got a spot at two of them because,
you know, but after a while they were buying the shit and I was the only one making like
nobody knew how to make this shit.
Yeah.
That's funny because we would now, now it's like extracts and concentrates are such a
big part of the market.
And I remember being in clubs with Gabby, like trying to convince the owners and the
buyers like what it was that it worked, you know, get it like, and then the other part
is Gabby, do you remember, I can't remember what the name of it was, but Gabby found this,
this container place in Santa Rosa that like sold all kinds of different weird sizes of
little plastic containers of all shapes.
Huh?
Tap plastics.
Tap plastics.
See, cause we were at the first, we were like, what do we even put this stuff in?
Like we didn't even know what to put.
Oron containers that, you know, you could scrape it off and stuff like that.
Yeah.
So he found this company.
Classic glass crack jar.
You know, that you could get at a head shop.
So he went and he bought all these different like, like styles of like rectangles and cylinders
and different little things.
And we experimented with like, which one was accessible and which one we could actually
get it into and play with.
Because it was like, we didn't have any packaging.
We didn't know what to do with it.
I remember, and we used to sit there like, you know, and it's like in the open blast
era or whatever, you have cases of butane and then you're like, got these PVC tubes.
And I remember being on Gabby's porch because it took, you know, it took hours sometimes
just to get prepped and pack all the tubes with all the, you know, the smalls and the
trim and the whatnot.
And then, you know, you start off with like these smooth PVC tubes.
And after you've used them for a while, you stick your finger in there and you rub it
around and you realize that it's like not smooth anymore.
And we were like, Oh, Oh no.
What do you mean?
Oh, shit.
Years later, you know, like, Oh, maybe it wasn't the best idea.
No, you know, and I'm trying to find something to clean my gabber and give me a second to
rub it.
Yeah.
But it was, I'll talk.
It was funny in the sense that like, as we were talking earlier on, you know, earlier
recording about how, when we were making seeds, there wasn't really the industry or the, like
all the stuff set up around to sell seed.
Yeah.
It was very much like that with BHL.
Oh yeah.
Like the only thing that people had in shops back then was like a few kinds of water hash.
Yeah.
I remember that very well.
And there wasn't that era, there wasn't nails, there wasn't heating elements, there wasn't
bangers.
There wasn't like specific rigs to smoke hash out of some of the rigs, you know, like, I
mean, I don't know if, I don't know if you remember, I won't say his full name, but you
remember Gabby E had that, had that water, that bong that like opened up, you know, so
you could like, it was like, it like had like a, like a lampshade looking thing on the bottom
of it.
And you could put it over when he lived in the Sevastopol house and you could put it
over the burning coil and you could drop dabs on it, you know.
I have a, I have a question for both of you.
Because this is before my time, but it's something I watched as a kid and I never understood
it and I've never really asked my dad to what the hell it was.
Yeah.
And since you worked at a head shop and you know all this stuff, he had a bamboo bong,
I think it was.
And he would take my Play-Doh and stick it on the motherfucker all around it.
And I would get so mad.
And I didn't know, looking back, I can't figure out why he stole my Play-Doh for his bamboo
bong because the bong wouldn't have gotten hot.
Well, as a kid, I figured, oh, it must be getting hot.
Jamaicans, Jamaicans had these bamboo style pipes that they would use.
Yeah.
You know, I forget their technical name.
And then I can't remember the name either, but like on, on a dead shows and stuff, there
was all this art that was, what was that clay art, Gabby, do you remember what it was called?
But they would form it into like little Jerry heads or, you know, different types of things.
And they could, you know, and it would like harden over time.
It was just something that an artist could easily turn it into a pipe and a piece of
art at the same time.
It was something that like you do while you're driving home, you know, without like a lot
of equipment or like you can't have a glass studio while you're driving to the next show.
Because maybe, maybe people would be funny to hear this, but like definitely the first
time I did, and it's probably the first time Gabby did was probably the first time that
you ever saw glass was like Bob's Snodgrass blowing, like, you know, and having his van
and selling it at shows.
He did it right on the table deadlock.
Because everybody smoked out of stone or clay or metal or wood or plastic or whatever.
And so, you know, I remember Gabby joking later on that, like, you know, Bob's stuff
looked like it was made by a kid kind of in certain ways, but like at the time, like
it was the only, you know, he had like, Gabby had like a couple cases of just Bob work,
you know, classic skull with a top hat pipe, you know.
I just put it away, but I have a chem dog piece and I got him to blow the only piece
that doesn't look like a Bob's Snodgrass hippie piece with a hippie milleflori.
And he put in punk rock milleflori for me in this little one.
There used to be like, Gabby had like the height of what was the coolest thing for hippies
to have back then, which was he had this big steamroller that Bob made with a full dragon
inside the tube and like the bowl, as you smoked it, it would pull the smoke down through
the dragon head and blow it out the dragon's mouth.
And then you would suck it through the steamroller.
It wouldn't fill the pipe with smoke.
It would make like a straight line from the dragon's mouth to yours.
So it was like a clear steamroller, but then it had this worked dragon's head with all
like these flares and colors and stuff.
And this is made by someone in our group.
So I'll plug it while we're doing this.
But it was just it was it was literally like that was the only place in the beginning where
we knew how to get glass.
And then and then it expanded to like apprentices and friends of Bob, you know, that
learned. And there was like a group in Eugene and stuff like that that was doing it.
But yeah, but people didn't we didn't when we were making the hash.
And the other thing that was funny is like we were making the hash out of like, you know,
trim and smalls from the dog and like our super dog experiments and the super skunk and
stuff. And so there was definitely a few experiences where we weren't used to the THC
content. And it was a little bit of panic at the disco.
Sure. You know, because you're like you smoke weed with your friends and you didn't
realize how little you needed to get lit up.
And we would smoke a little bit too much and get nervous.
Yeah. The first time I smoked moon rocks, what we're talking about doing this.
Yeah, it's fine. I was I didn't know if you wanted me to bring it up or whatever, but
literally that was I was 2000 or 2001 because as soon as he opened the shop, he quit.
But we did a lot of it in 2000, 2001, and at least amongst our friend group and at least
amongst going to the stores and stuff like that, like none of the owners, they'd never
seen it. They'd never they had no idea what it was, they had no idea how to use it, they
had no idea how to market it, you know, it was like they were concerned.
It was almost like they had to get some of it and give some to customers and get good
feedback. And then they got excited about it.
So I don't know, you know, it and there wasn't that many stores, really.
There was a few in Oakland, like Gabby was saying, there was the third floor.
There was a place that our buddy owned who I'll remain nameless at the moment.
There was a place in Berkeley on Shattuck Avenue.
And they were and they were pretty cool because they were punk rock.
They were like it was like where the anarchists met to plan like like social resistance.
Yeah. And so they didn't make any money off of there.
They were like full medical.
They didn't make any money.
They made like a 15 percent markup to pay for costs and employee salaries and stuff.
Yeah. So like if you gave them a screaming deal, you go up and see it on the board and
it would literally be 15 percent more expensive than what you gave it to them for.
Yeah. Where everybody else was like doubling or tripling their money or whatever on it, it
was definitely a semi-profit base.
They were literally like just the overhead to run the place.
You know, do you remember that spot on Shattuck, Gabby, that we would go to?
They were so different than the rest of them because they literally were like, you know,
there we go. No, they were punk rock.
They were very punk rock about it.
Yeah.
James Hogg.
I don't know how good you guys can see that.
What is it? We have this.
This is the orangutan titties.
The worst.
The worst slash best names in cannabis.
Orangutan.
Orangutan super boof.
Yeah, that is.
The worst.
I am not familiar with orangutan titties.
Yeah, no, that's a new one to me.
It's grease monkeys times Skittles.
Do you know Parker Francis?
Yeah.
Did you know Parker?
I mean, well, I know a few Parkers, which one?
Mozel, PZ.
Oh, no.
Anyway, he won the Emerald Cup last year.
In the personal use category with this genetic.
And this is one of the ones that I got at the nursery.
But rolling some up.
I'm not driving today, as you guys can tell.
Yeah, no, I'm able to imbibe a little bit more.
But we so at the time, too, that we were making it, we were concerned about
like, you know, fire or whatever.
But like we took such extreme precautions, like because we were out
literally in the middle of a field and like we would heat the water
far away and then bring it, you know, and and do the thing like we didn't do.
Like what people did later with electrical or try to do it in garages
or try to do it in a shed or anywhere it could build up, you know.
So we never had any of like the horror stories of like,
you know, accidents.
Really?
I mean, we could have.
But we didn't.
Yeah. I mean, again, don't attempt this at home.
Bad, you know, stupid things that young people do
when you don't know better.
But, you know, it was like at the time it was like, I don't even
we'd never even heard the term B.H.O.
It was basically just like a situation where like whoever taught Gabby
I can't even remember his name.
Well, I don't remember what we called it.
I don't remember what we called it either.
But but we it was like he was like, dude, it's like you can pack this tube
full of smalls and like small nugs and trim
and it'll melt all the THC right off it and then collect it in this thing.
And you'll turn all this stuff that you just sit around anyway and gold.
And, you know, it was the first time we'd ever seen it.
Yeah. Gabby, definitely Gabby taught it to me,
and then we ended up doing it together and
that's going to be clipped right there.
That that statement that was that you guys ended up doing it together.
We were just talking about not so getting clipped, like
saying awkward out of context, out of context.
So you were just brought up.
Let me see. What is it?
I can't see it. I'm blind.
There are many King Palms.
So, no.
Yeah. So this is a product that I really like.
Let's see. They make it's like a.
It's like a cone.
Oh, yeah. No, I have seen those.
It's made out of a palm leaf. Yeah.
And so I don't smoke blunts.
There was somebody on the discord talking about how, you know,
they're going to smoke blunts till they die.
I don't like blunts because I don't smoke tobacco.
Yeah. And I think it really just.
Like you have a beautiful flower and then you put, you know, roll it with tobacco.
It's kind of fucked up. Yeah.
I was skeptical about these.
I bought these for my lady as an alternative to blunts.
And they're really thick.
You think that they're going to burn like really hot and like.
But man, these things actually burn better than papers.
You know, like, yeah,
where the does the Ross.
I like this better.
I try to handle raps because they're fucking harsh.
They burn so fast to these.
They have this little thing.
You don't have to use it.
You can just fill it by hand.
They drop the joint in there
and then you give it a little.
Coke with the supplied poker.
Put a little bit more in there.
And I can actually roll a joint, but like I cannot.
I can't. I can roll a joint.
I mean, I used to use rolling machines just to like
do a better job and make it faster, because like we said in yesterday's,
I would do like 10 in the morning before I left for work.
Yeah. But this thing.
What you get is such an elegant product
and you really can taste the weed really good in it.
You'll see it in a minute.
So maybe this is a good segue.
I just thought about it while you were chatting, where when
when Gabby and I became friends, like a lot of hippies,
we were club paper, you know, exclusives,
various sizes of clubs, Modiano's or whatever.
Yeah. All kinds of different sizes depends on what you're rolling,
whether you're rolling a thumb size joint or a pin or whatever.
But I didn't have a palette to do it.
But Gabby could straight up.
Taste glue. There we go.
And nobody would believe nobody would believe
that he could actually taste the difference.
And so I don't know how many times it happened, but it happened
numerous times where like we would literally blindfold Gabby
and people would roll joints of the exact same weed
and one would have glue and one wouldn't.
And he'd take a couple of puffs and he'd be like glue
not glue, glue, not glue.
And he was 100 percent right every single time.
And people would be like, there's no way you can tell the difference.
I don't believe it. He's like, what do you think?
You have told the difference.
Huh? I think they would have been able to tell the difference.
Like when you have a quality herb like like the cam dog
that has such a good taste and then smoking glue.
Like I think you're going to be able to say, well, that one's better.
Yeah. People would not believe that he could do it.
And I honestly, my palate, I couldn't taste it.
But Gabby learned what the flavor of the glue was
and he got it right 100 percent of the time.
He could he could taste glue.
And so we never smoked papers with glue
because he felt like it ruined the J.
So we always smoked rice, glue, less rice papers
that you had to rip and lick in order to get them to stick,
which was mostly before a club kind of went out of business or whatever.
It was all clubs.
That was the that was the heady, hippie paper.
That was the acceptable paper for heady joints.
I'm going to grab an extra.
Was was the clubs.
Yeah, I was just showing those things are so hard to use without the gum thing,
like I don't get how you're supposed to get the papers to like intertwine.
Those are the only kind of joints that he would roll.
You know, that's all our friends in our group or whatever.
Like you basically you have to rip it so that the fibers.
I know it's rough and then you have to apply it, you know.
But yeah, John tried to show me.
Oops. He tried to show me how to do that.
And I was like, I'm watching it right there in front of me.
And I'm like, what the fuck are you doing?
Yeah, no glue was glue was subpar in our crew.
Glue was glue.
You know, you didn't use glue was cheating.
Since Francis talks a lot and is a dick, I'll go ahead and do this again
and plug our friend.
Gabby, have you heard of C2 last before?
They're pretty good.
They're pretty fun.
I'm pretty sure I can get him to send you something cool.
But I will say if they want to sponsor me, I'm accepting the bond.
Oh, yeah, I'm sure he'd be down to send you something cool.
He's in our group.
Go ahead.
I'll show you what I'm smoking out of.
Let's see. This is called flow scientific glass.
And very scientific.
Has no color in it at all.
Mostly it's just about function.
And like the water will come up to here and like do like a circle.
Uh huh. Like a recycler.
Yes, it is a recycler.
And I've had this long since the very beginning of a
of me dabbing many years ago.
Luckily, this one this one made it.
Wow. That's a beautiful one.
I just brought home my ski mask glass piece.
It's a clockwork orange one that I left at my mother's for like a long time.
Never been used, though.
So people are going to want us to cover sour and clock more thoroughly.
Like that's a great era of your life.
And I don't think we covered it properly.
Answer, you know, discuss this and stuff.
But I've been thinking about this a lot.
Sure. And so I just want to get this out out there into the open.
And with all due respect
to the people that are obsessing about this topic, including you.
Like. Because people are like, well, people are going to get pissed off.
You're going to get angry text messages.
And I'm like, I don't think so.
But the fact that anyone is getting that worked up about something
that is we can't even prove it.
And it's just silly.
I mean, we should enjoy the conversation.
You know, everybody should be enjoying the conversation and like,
you know, debating if necessary.
But like for anyone to get uptight or threatened or.
You know, feel wronged if I say something that's completely false because.
You know, happened 30 years ago.
And, you know, my brain has been
many of them are welcome to come on and correct it.
You know what I mean?
Like, you know, I mean, for him, things like it doesn't even have to be like that.
You know, like they don't have to.
They don't have to want to correct themselves.
And, you know, like, you know, it's just like
this is what one stoned aging hippie is saying.
It doesn't mean that much. Right.
You know, well, that gets me.
Let's just consider it good stories that we can all enjoy and laugh about
and try to, like, pull from, you know, because, you know,
I don't remember who said it.
And but, you know, somebody said that, you know,
Greg has changed his story a few times.
And so, like, he's not really the best source of or reliable.
Let's just
give him the benefit of the doubt
that he smokes a lot of weed and he's just sold.
And he never remembered the story that good because, you know, but like
as he was a kid, he's not a liar.
You know, we don't have to like bring that lying, you know, and
and if we all remember it a little bit differently,
I think that's what we call perspective.
And and not only perspective, but just flawed memory.
You know, the other part of it, I just wanted to start by saying that, like,
nobody should be getting all worked up about anything that we say.
I hope people enjoy the conversation.
You know, one thing that you said to me yesterday, Matt, is that,
you know, you like the way Francis and I talk.
You know, I mean, Francis has been my friend
for over 20 years and talking to him.
Like, for instance, if I was just talking to you,
it might not be exactly the same just because, you know what I mean?
Like, yeah, not that I wouldn't be open with you or anything, but
there's no way you guys can.
Brother, you know, something else that I wanted to say is that, you know.
Nothing like terrible, like but like some awkward shit happened with me and Francis.
OK, I'm just going to get it out in the open.
My ex fired him.
OK, like and.
He was like one of the most valuable people that ever worked for me,
you know, like I told people that, you know, he I felt like I could really help
people and Francis was actually able to help people even more, you know.
And so today, you know, I'm pretty sure I did in the past.
I'll say it again.
I'm sorry that that happened.
It was a total mistake and bad business.
Wasn't my decision.
You know, my business was slowing down.
Like when we hired Francis, our business was booming
and we were able to pay people what Francis needed to make.
And then as business got not as good, you know, got harder to do that.
But the point is, like me and Francis didn't talk for a while for that.
And maybe some other petty shit.
And me and VA skunk didn't talk for a few years.
Over again, shit that like.
It shouldn't keep people that are as connected as we are.
To to not talk, you know, and I had this epiphany like
I don't know if it is the right word, but this thought, like
when I recently connected with VA again, I was like, you know,
I really don't give a shit about any of the stuff that happened in our past.
Like any of the times that we argued.
And because.
You know, I said to him, I said, I love you,
you're an important part of my life, a part of my history,
and I don't want to let that shit go.
And so I want to say it's exactly the same for me and Francis.
Like, I love this guy.
You know, I always will.
You know, and as you get older.
You know, you just start to realize that, like,
these are the things that are important, not like what the exact cross of Sauer
and, you know, Kim made, you know, it's like that shit is just like.
Stuff that we should definitely discuss, I'm not saying it's not worth a discussion
and like, let's think about it.
I mean, like that's what me and Francis used to do all the time anyway.
We used to talk about weed, right?
But like anyone to get upset and feel threatened about like
this topic that involves shit that like.
I don't I don't and won't understand it.
So going into this topic about the Sauer,
which I have even less exact information about than.
Sure.
Like we're just speculating, you know, like maybe
maybe I'll interject, too, and say, you know, me, too.
Oh, yeah. Well, I mean, what's interesting is that you, you know, I mean,
you know, Gabby and I were chatting.
I think it was last night or something.
And like we were going over some stuff that we won't be chatting about.
But, you know, it's just it's hard in life.
There's so many twists and turns and there's so many like Gabby was like,
you know, life's a carnival.
And, you know, you have this situation where people get,
you know, like I try to tell history and I and, you know,
he mentioned that I tried to be as accurate as possible.
But I also admit things because you have these situations
where you have friends that have been friends for 20 or 30 years
and they have ins and outs with each other and their lives have complications.
And it's like that's not really pertinent to the story so much.
And it's like it's not really people's business.
And like I wasn't going to go into like obviously,
you know, I see collective Skunk VA, Gabby, myself.
We've all known each other for like a really long time, you know, like really
at this point, a really long time.
And so there's ins and outs and ups and downs and fall outs and fall ins
to all that kind of stuff that, you know, and and and, you know,
and just how that's how life works. Right.
And so, you know, people always want to latch on to the salacious part of it
to some degree or the part that creates conflict.
And, you know, it's funny, too, because people would attack me for being like,
oh, you don't really know that.
And really, it's like I would be like, dude, all my stories come,
honestly, from like my one friend.
And I don't know how to prove to you how good of friends we were,
but like we were really good friends.
Yeah, we were really, really, really close.
And that was me and Francis were good fucking friends.
And and like the stories he told seemed to be fairly accurate,
like nothing that I could argue with.
And, you know, like, yeah, we sat the amount of times we sat on a couch
together and smoked joints and talked about weed or like made BHO or bread
or traded like I mean, it was just like people don't realize
what a different era it was.
You know, and so people want to jump on little points,
you know, in that regard.
But, you know, between the four or five of us or whatever,
and you go back 20, 25 years like like homie said,
you're going to have some different memories.
And on top of that, it's not like when the chem dog story was getting written
or the sour story was getting written or any of this stuff was happening.
Any of us knew any of this was going to be important later on.
You had a bunch of partying hippies who like to see shows and like to go out
and like to stay up late and like to smoke weed and all that doing stuff.
And then later on, people are like, oh, man, that was kind of important.
We want to know specifics.
Yeah. Like play by play.
And so you try to give you the most accurate play by play.
And then if two people have a different play by play,
it doesn't mean that someone's lying.
It just means that their memory map is a little different, maybe.
Or what's stuck in their head is a bit different.
You know, I think so.
Also, like.
Because I believe the story the way I do
and you believe the story that the way you do.
When we talk. We can like.
We're not trying to convince any.
It's like this is actually what we believe, right?
So like we're not lying.
I'm not wording it properly, but the whole point is it's just
this is a story as we remember it.
Like I'd be happy for someone to like help me remember it better,
because I want to know the truth, too.
You know, like and, you know, like it took me a minute
to remember the like breathing stuff that we did together, Francis, you know?
And then I was like, oh, yeah, of course.
I mean, like, where did I get all that shit from?
You know, like I got a lot of genetics from you, you know, like the Maui.
You had gotten that from Jason King, right?
No, we got that from a show.
That was that was some of the first weed I ever grew.
Sean and I grew that in Chicago.
Oh, that's right.
What was the weed that we got from Jason King, though?
Didn't we get a strain from him?
The mothership.
The mothership. Right.
Well, you guys got to know the mothership.
Yeah. 100%.
Like I've heard of pineapple mothership, but never.
That remember that story I told you about the the weed that got mailed to us,
the plants, and we thought they were going to send us cuttings.
And the chick sent us like plants in two gallon pots.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I don't know about that.
We got the mothership and it was actually at one of Eddie Lep's house
that it got sent to that he had not not his main property where he grew.
But like Jason was renting a house from him in Lake County.
And they sent us the it was it was such a big box when I opened it up.
I almost shit my pants because it was literally like two plants
that were two feet tall with bamboo stakes in the soil.
I thought they were going to send like little cuttings like in rock wool or.
Something that happened a few times.
It's weird. These two giant ass plants,
you know, and the communication is off a little bit on that.
We but yeah, you know, the the Maui got brought out by Sean.
Yeah. And so then it was also the Mendocino perps.
Now, you know, like I had the chem dog and, you know, the super dog,
or, you know, the the skunk and you had all these other strains,
you know, like I didn't have that diverse of the collection that you did.
Now you had a couple of things, but they were really good.
They were unreal.
They were really, really good.
When I think about it, it's like, oh, yeah, all that,
all those other strains that we crossed, you know,
with the stuff that you brought in, you know, yeah, it was from Jason.
And that a. The Maui that you brought from Chicago.
Yeah, that was epic shit.
Do you know I still have it?
Oh, my God. You'll have it.
Dude, it's it's 28 years old.
It's my longest successful female relationship. Yeah.
It might actually be in some popular things, right?
Or is that a different one?
That's a different that that's a that's a different.
That's a whole different thing.
The thing about that strain is it was so productive and it was white.
It's beautiful. It was coated in tricots.
It's beautiful.
Had you ever seen it?
Matthew? Yeah. Oh, yeah.
I still have it.
Yeah. You still flower it?
Yeah. Sometimes the flowers.
I still have it. Yeah.
I have it for sure.
I want to get some. It's a.
Yeah, it's I'm putting this out there publicly.
I want Francis to give me some chem dog flower.
Oh, shit. Oh, my God.
Now, now we're going to start shit on the discord.
Everyone's got to like make memes and shit about
Francis with some chem dog flower,
because I haven't had any in a really long time.
Honestly, I I told Matt, you did a really good job.
You did a far better job than I would have.
You've been thinking about it a lot more than I have.
And, you know, so, you know, there was little details that
honestly don't really matter that much.
You know, the core of the story was correct.
Like one little detail that you got wrong was
the only reason why I got the chem dog was because I gave
Greg the skunk.
But, you know, he didn't want to give it to me
until I had something that he wanted.
You know, and so.
But like I said, the details was so little.
You know that I mean, you can by all means ask questions.
But. I don't know.
I was thinking more like tell a couple of stories about.
Oh, yeah. You know, like how I got it across country.
Oh, yeah. When I met Klopp,
you know, when I met Greg,
I want to tell people when I met like not just met you, but like
the moment that we became friends for life,
you know, because there was that moment.
Do you remember the moment?
I mean, I I remember.
So what I remember, what really broke us through in terms of friendship
was Sean and I were trying to fucking
figure out those water cooled lights.
And they kept for that.
It was before that.
Well, actually, I don't know if it was before that,
but that wasn't the moment for me, at least.
But go ahead. You tell your side. They don't tell mine.
Well, I mean, the other part of it, too, is that people have different memories
of things, you know, and like, really, I'm losing it.
But there's one there's one thing there's certain things I'll never forget.
But go ahead. You tell you.
Because I think I think we actually became friends when you were working.
Like the first time we started talking was when you were at Slavic shop.
Yeah, HydroDipa.
Mm hmm. Before when there was no shops in Mendo or anything like that,
we had to go south in order to get.
And I mean, I remember going I remember going to your house in Casadero.
You know.
And yeah, that's where that's where I actually I think that's
where we actually did our first exchange of cuts.
You know, remember, you used to make that pasta, dude,
with like all the veggies and the olive oil and the balsamic and all that stuff.
And yeah, I came down, you know, and you invited me down for dinner.
But the thing that I was going to tell was like we
we were leaving after talking to you one day.
And Sean was like, we should leave a joint
amendo perps on his on his windshield wipers.
You know, I could hear him saying that right now in his voice.
Do you know this?
I don't know if this is going to this.
This should probably get cut out or whatever, dude.
But I reconnected just within the last month
after years of trying with his wife and daughter.
Whose wife and daughter?
Sean's. Oh, oh, that's awesome.
You know, his daughter is like going to college next year.
I mean, they're pretty good.
Wow. You know, I'll send you pics, dude, after this call or whatever.
Like she got like she looks so much.
She looks like a much prettier version of Sean.
She's got like she's not all.
No, no, she's not.
But she's got his skin tone like the super like pale Irish.
How about how about attitude?
You know, she's nicer.
But I mean, that's the funny thing, too, is like Sean was so much
like a bunch of my friends back home. I was the nice one.
Mm hmm. You know, I was the mellower one.
Yeah. You know, and I think he would have said that you were the soft one.
Yeah, I would say that about him.
I was saying, you know, yeah, I mean.
All right. So let me let me tell my story.
Sure. I don't want this edited out.
OK, I want this to be live on the Internet for eternity.
Got it. All right.
So Francis and Sean were customers at my hydro store.
OK, it was called Hydro Depot at the point.
And, you know, we're just being casually friendly.
I was just trying to provide good service and be cool and stuff like that.
And I had given you my phone number.
And I don't know if this was this is definitely before we started
trading clones, you know, but I gave you my phone number for some reason.
And you called me one night.
And you said, Gabby, do you have a part for an airflow?
Oh, yeah. Like it's like a part that like sticks out
on the bottom of the airflow, like to drain it.
And somehow you broke yours.
And for those of you that don't know, the airflow is an aeroponic system
that if that thing's not getting water
and what is not pumping through it constantly,
your plants are in big trouble fast.
Yeah, it takes a lot of air upon it.
There's no medium. Right.
So the roots are just dangling in this tube by itself.
So Francis calls me up.
He's like, hey, Gabby, I know it's late, but we've got an emergency.
Our airflow, the drain broke off.
It's not holding water.
You know, we're going to lose everything.
And I was like, oh, well, I have an airflow at my store.
You can come and get it.
So I drove over there, met these guys over there.
And they, you know, we open up the box, get out the part for the airflow.
And then you decide, well, you know, since we're here,
there's a couple more things that I need.
And I'm like, sure, no problem at this point.
Like I've already made the trip.
Might as well sell you some more shit. Right.
So you're like grabbing things.
I want this. I want this.
But you're just holding it in your hand.
And before we know it, you drop the airflow part.
It's like this PVC manifold,
you know, like two inch PVC or one and a half inch PVC.
It has all these things on it.
And my floor is cement.
And it was so heavy because of all the stuff that was attached to it
when it hit the ground, it just shattered.
Oh, my God. And it was just like, oh, my God.
Like at that point, like your crop was fucked.
I don't remember actually what happened, but it was like.
This is bad.
You know, I think like the next day, I think the next day
you went to like Friedman Brothers or something like that
and just got like PVC in a cap and stuck it in.
But like your plants were like not happy with you.
No, definitely not happiness. Definitely not.
And and even though it was that moment of sorrow.
That was the moment that I always felt like
we connected and became friends for at that moment.
Yeah, I mean, so it was it was funny.
The part you didn't know that Sean was walking and he tripped
and he fell.
You're blaming Sean.
Well, he tripped and fell and he's fucking dead, bro.
He's dead.
But he tripped and fell and he broke the nice guy.
This is a nice guy.
This guy, he broke he broke it.
And then we had to we had to we had to make it happen.
But yeah, I mean, we came like we came from hydro world
because coming from where we came from, like soil,
working with soil wasn't really like apartment style.
Being able to get it out of the apartment and throwing it away.
That was hard.
Oh, man, I have I have funny stories.
Has nothing to do with the chem dog.
Let's do it.
Let me let me tell you about the first time I ever grew weed.
Please. Right.
So my parents, they helped me get this apartment
and it was in Greenpoint, Brooklyn,
which is like a really at the time was like an extremely Polish neighborhood.
Like now it's like super hip.
They ran all the old people out.
Now it's like young students and stuff like that.
It's two stops on the L train from Manhattan.
So you're in Brooklyn, but you can be in Manhattan
in less than five minutes taking the train.
You know, so it's like it's an awesome spot.
And so I got this apartment.
It was on the third story of this brownstone.
And on every story, there was two apartments on the bottom story.
There was like a card room.
It's like a private card room.
But it's all Polish guys who play cards.
And on the second story,
there was a gay couple and then like a Polish couple that spoke zero English.
Right. And then on the top story, it was me.
And my girlfriend at the time and.
And.
That live next to us, they were young, right, so.
I was growing in this apartment and just like you said.
Getting rid of soil and stuff and anything like that, it was super
because you had to put all your trash out on the street.
You know, and if the cops thought you were growing,
looking at your trash like they don't even need a warrant to do that.
Like it's out on the street, they can just go through it.
So my toilet.
I'm on the third story.
And there was so much suction on this toilet.
Like literally you would not sit on it when you flush that toilet.
OK, because fucking you.
That's dangerous up down the pipe. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. Right.
So but I thought I'd take advantage of this.
And like I use literally I used to flush everything,
the trim, the soil, everything went down the fucking toilet.
This is some 90s story right here.
Oh, yeah. Yeah, that's why I thought we should start with this.
So like I mean, I was growing in like two or three gallon pots.
And at the end of the cop crop, I would cut the stem.
I don't remember how we got the stems down the toilet,
but I know everything went down the toilet.
We must have like grind it up or something.
And I would just have this five gallon bucket of soil
and I'd turn it over into the toilet.
And then like with a stick, I'd fucking just like break it up
and like one flush and we just go straight down. Right.
And I mean, I did like two or three crops there
before I moved to California. And.
So one day, you know, the inevitable day comes
where I stick I stick this five gallon bucket into the toilet.
It floods the place.
Oh, she doesn't go down.
And at that moment, I'm like, oh, my God, like I got to call a plumber
and there's going to be two crops worth of soil
jammed in these pipes like, you know, I'm like, I'm so busted.
I'm like thinking like I got to cut down all my shit.
You know, like this is this is bad.
Like I like, you know, and the place had one bathroom.
Oh, no. It was like a railroad apartment.
Right. One room to the next room, to the next room.
And then there was a kitchen with a shower right next to it, a bathroom.
And that was it. I used to live in one of those.
OK, and so this is this is a bad situation.
So I run to the hardware store and I buy a plunger,
which I never had because the fucking thing, you know, you just
so I buy a plunger, oh, cheek, cheek, flush it.
And it just fucking goes right down. Who?
And I'm like, oh, my God.
And I think I continue to flush it down the toilet.
Because what else the fuck was I going to do?
Literally, there was nothing to do in New York City.
Like there's only so many other people's dumpsters that you could dump.
You know, that's shady to like trying to put your shit
in somebody else's dumpster or something like that.
That's what I did when I lived in New York.
I flushed everything.
I flushed everything down the toilet.
That is fucking hilarious.
I used to live in a big apartment complex like that in San Diego.
And slowly but surely, as people would move out, I'd rent the next apartment
and thought I was being all sneaky, you know, but they had the same kind of toilets.
I never thought to have the ingenuity to flush the soil, though.
Oh, it was the dumbest idea ever.
I just it was it was kind of like, you know,
the stupid shit that we did on Dead Tour that we could still be in jail for.
And we're not like, you know, like.
Holy shit, why did I do such stupid shit?
Like I'd never do that again, you know, and I would never recommend
anyone flush anything, you know,
like that down the toilet.
It's just a bad. I just got lucky.
You got lucky that you moved out.
Yeah. OK, so let me tell you about, you know,
I lived there for like nine months before I moved to California.
I did like a few cycles.
And it's literally my last crop.
I'm like, I'm I'm cutting my crop and hanging it.
And I get a knock on the door.
And I'm like, holy shit, someone's knocking on my door.
I've lived here for nine months.
No one has ever knocked on my door because you got to get rung in
from downstairs.
And the only people that, you know, like is the people in the building
and everyone was super private.
Yeah. You know, like nobody like nobody ever said anything to me,
even though once you got up to the second story, you could totally smell.
Yeah, just breathe.
Probably right down the street.
Yeah. So.
I'm like, holy shit, I'm like, who is it?
And so knock on the door, I like walk up to the door, I'm like, hello.
And it's like the neighbor's girlfriend, you know, the girl that lives next door.
And she's like, could I have a joint, please?
I'm like, what?
I opened the door and I literally grabbed her and pull her in to my place.
Uh huh. And like the way it was is once you're in my place,
you're basically in the grove.
Yeah. Yeah. Right. Yeah.
And she was like, oh, my God.
She's like, we knew you were growing, but we had no idea like this.
Right. And like they were really cool.
Like, you know, if I wasn't growing and paranoid,
I would have been friends with them like the whole time.
We would have great neighbors.
So it's so cool.
And I was literally only meeting them days before we're leaving.
Like we were harvesting, getting the fuck out. Yeah.
And so, yeah, she's like, yeah, obviously we've been smelling it for nine months.
And, you know, I just couldn't take it anymore.
I had to ask.
And I'm like, all right, that's cool.
And she's like, hey, so do you want to see mine?
I'm like, what?
She's like, yeah. She's like, it's nothing like this.
Yeah. But, you know, I got some plants over at my place, too.
I'm like, oh, my God, I can't believe it.
So I'm like, all right, I'll go and see it.
So I go over there. They have no lights.
They just have plants in the window to the street.
And like when you're at the bottom of the street,
there's like two windows on every story. Yeah.
And like they had pot plants growing in their window.
I had no idea.
And like when you go up the stairs, it like zigzags across. Right.
So like if the cops saw the plants in their window
and they come up the stairs like they would immediately know it's coming from my door.
Yeah. You know what I'm saying?
So I was like, you got to get rid of this shit. Right.
First of all, it was like not going to happen.
You know, they weren't going to get anything from it.
You know, it was like.
I forget what time of year it was, but.
I think we were approaching winter, actually.
And, you know, they had these pathetic plants that were starting to bloom.
But like I was like, look, I will give you weed and I will give you
I'll teach you guys how to grow before I leave.
But you have to get rid of that shit right now.
That shit has to come out of your window right now.
And so, you know, I gave him some weed and they killed it.
They're like, really, this isn't going to work.
It's like, no, it's not going to work.
Not just in your window.
It wasn't like a south facing good window.
It was wintertime.
They had no lights.
But when they left, I left them my gear.
You know, I didn't you know, I didn't want to drive across country with it.
My plan was to get them.
I left them my lights.
I left them plants. Oh.
You know, when I first started growing.
Let me just finish this one.
I used I grew from bag seed, right?
Like getting clones, you know, there wasn't riot seed co at the time.
Yeah. So like, you know, just like everything else that we had at the time,
it came from bag seed.
And I named every one of my plants a girl's name.
And the one that made it out west, the one that I saved was called Francine.
Oh, I've heard of that one.
Oh, really? My Francis.
Yeah. Oh, yeah.
So there's well, you have that.
You had that pipe from
from Bob.
Yeah. That you never smoked anything but the Francine out of.
But it was in the collection.
Yeah. My whole collection burned in the fires and melted.
The fire at my house was so hot that the glass melted.
Oh, so I found like I found a plate of glass that had like my used to be my pipes.
I guess he had this case that had a bunch, a bunch of different pipes in it from dead to her.
And one of them was this piece that like was the Francine piece.
And he only smoked Francine out of it.
And so when he retired that cut because it rotted,
he basically retired smoking out of that pipe.
I think I don't think we ever smoked.
Yeah, it was a bubbler, the Francine bubbler, the Francine bubbler.
Passion and devotion. I dig it. I dig that.
Yeah, the Francine definitely had it.
So. You got a question, I just wanted to finish saying about Francine,
you had a question, Francis.
Go ahead, Francis.
No, I'm not so dog.
I was actually just going to say, dude, that
I similarly when I was the last place I was in, when I was growing in Chicago,
I was always super militant about like walking my dogs
and I would try to see if it smelled anywhere.
And it never did. And I thought it was so clever.
And then this guy knocked on my door and he was my neighbor.
And he was like, would you mind coming into my room, coming in my apartment
and talking to me? And I was like, sure, you know, he's like,
I just don't want to talk to you in the courtyard.
And so I walked into his house and it smelled like someone was actively
harvesting in there.
And like all the smell that I thought I was so slick on, he's like, dude,
he's like for about two weeks, every couple of months, my entire apartment
smells like my girlfriend and I weren't convinced that you, you know,
and I was like, I thought I was so slick, you know, and I was.
And it didn't smell outside my door.
It didn't smell outside the windows.
I caulked everything.
I was like so careful.
And it's straight reeked.
Right next door.
Reeked dude, reeked in his house, like worse than my house.
Like I couldn't.
Yeah, you were just pumping it all right next door.
Yeah, I had no idea.
But apparently it smelled like someone was harvesting fresh weed in his house.
I walked in and I was like, oh, my God.
He's like, no, it's not a problem.
It's not a problem at all.
We think I just need some.
I mean, you know, and I was like so panicked because, yeah, it's like you.
I don't think people understand today the panic of having a small scene,
but not even most of your friends knowing and like you not like it just was so sketch.
It just felt so sketch, you know?
It was a life with that.
What do you move from there?
Was that was that the trip that you basically got to California
and your car caught on fire and you had to move back and now again?
No, that was the time that I actually made it.
That was the time that you made it, because the first time you tried, right,
like your VW bus with the pinions or whatever, like it caught on fire.
You caught you caught all your shit on fire, like basically right
as you were getting to California and failed.
I actually had I actually had forgot about that for a while.
Thanks for reminding me.
Now he had the story of like how he was driving out like hippie style
in this VW bus and you had to stop every so often and like adjust.
Well, that happened.
So I had to adjust the points.
Yeah, that was when I was driving east.
So me and my girlfriend at the time, we bought this Volkswagen bus
on the West Coast and we drove it out east.
And when we drove it out east, we had to stop like all the time
to adjust the points.
But her dad was a mechanic.
And like he didn't want us to go, but he's like, all right, if you're going to go,
I'm going to like fix this thing up a little bit.
So you're not like stranded in the middle of nowhere.
And so he fixed it up.
And the whole way across country, we never had to adjust the points.
And we were 137 miles from the California border.
And it stalled.
And I was like, oh, I was I actually wasn't even that stressed about it
because I was like, you know, the last time when we're driving east,
we had to stop every 200 miles and adjust the points.
Yeah. You know, we just we just drove almost 3000 miles.
I was 137 miles from the California border.
And so I tried to turn the ignition and it makes like one little sound
like trying to turn over and then just stops.
And I'm like, huh?
And I look out the mirrors and it was breathing fire.
Oh, no. Out the out the vents.
There was fire coming out of there.
And so like. Me and my girlfriend and I think we had a cat at the time
that like we had it like the cat was like we had a bed in there
and the cat was underneath and we had to like try to get the cat out.
Oh, and the cat when the cat got out, the cat was like under the burning
van scared, didn't want to fucking come out.
We're like trying to like, you know.
So that time we had to like go with our heads between our heads,
you know, tails and like call our parents to fly us back home.
Yeah, we didn't make it.
But regarding that story, something that you don't know, Francis,
I don't know how interesting this is to the viewers.
Last two months ago,
my insurance provider calls me up and they say,
hey, your license has been revoked.
I'm like, what are you talking about?
I was like, I haven't even had a ticket in five years.
You have more like they're like, yeah,
something happened in Arizona in 1990.
And your license has been revoked.
And so what happened was when my van caught fire,
it like literally took an hour for a police department, a police car to show up
and then like another hour for the fire department to show up.
By the time they showed up, it wasn't even on fire.
It was just hot. Yeah. Right.
And so like after losing everything we had and our dreams
and making it out, you know, out west.
West. Yeah. So, yeah, I hear you guys fine.
So I after losing everything we owned and our dreams of going out west to see Jerry.
He writes me a ticket for driving with no insurance.
And this is actually caught up like I never paid the ticket, you know, fucking.
Yeah. 18, you know, 19 year old deadhead fucking making bad decisions,
driving across country with no insurance.
That's a bad decision.
Any of our young viewers out there should do that.
You know, like the flushing it down the toilet, driving cross country.
These are not recommended.
You know, you know, don't do what I did.
How does one fix a ticket like this that is that old and just so?
So what happened was this was already like 10 years ago or more.
I couldn't renew my license when I tried to renew it.
They told me about the ticket and I paid it.
I actually now I paid it 10 years late.
You know, like it took a while for them to track me down. Right.
But so I paid this fucking ticket.
And so now I realize I've been driving around
for six months with no insurance and I had no idea.
Yeah. DMV, they didn't contact me that they, you know, revoked my license.
So I would have gotten to a car accident.
You know, I'm going to lose everything, have no insurance.
And all because it's a decision as a kid. Right.
So I called up Arizona DMV
and I asked them what was up.
I was like, I paid the ticket. Yeah.
And they're like, yeah, but there's an eight dollar late fee.
Oh, stop.
When I paid the ticket, they gave me my license back,
but there was this eight dollar late fee.
And I'm like, so you mean to tell me you guys revoked my driver's license
for a ticket that I paid because of an eight dollar late fee that I did?
They're like, yeah, you know, we're sorry.
I was like, well, I was like, how much do you guys want?
Like, you know, I'm thinking like this eight dollar late fee is like two thousand dollars.
Now, yeah. Compounding interest and all this shit.
Like eight dollars.
And I'm like, I was actually almost more offended.
Yeah. Right. You know, it's like over eight dollars that, you know,
I would have paid, you know, and I went to DMV.
They're like, yeah, it's not our responsibility to tell you
that your license has been revoked.
You know, and I was like, so what are you telling me that I need to check
the DMV website every morning when I wake up?
So that's that's the finale of that Volkswagen story and that failed story, though.
See, my memory is fucked up, but there's certain things that I remember clearly.
Yeah. I mean, I may not have the entire chem dog history down
as much as Francis does, but, you know, I haven't lost it all yet.
I still got something.
I mean, I've said I've said this before on the podcast or whatever, but like
basically all the stories that I have before I came into it come from him.
Yeah. You know, and him and I just sitting around like you people do,
like like friends and stoners shooting the shit about things.
And the reason why I believe them over most of the other stories
was just because he told them to me so long before it got famous. Yeah.
Like, you know, like when we were growing the chem dog, like nobody like I mean,
people, the only people that like there was like a few there was like maybe four
friends that had it.
It was, you know, like me, him, Skunk, the A and I see like that was pretty much it.
And like, you know, I mean, it wasn't like it wasn't famous.
It wasn't well known. It wasn't like any of that kind of stuff.
There wasn't any legend to having it.
So there wasn't any reason to embellish.
Yeah.
Buy it back when I started selling the chem dog.
People would buy it, not because they knew what it was.
It's just like you took one smell of it and you know that you have never had
anything like that before.
And, you know, new people would just be instantly ready to.
I mean, if I remember whatever price, if I remember what you were telling me, right,
probably the best place to get chem dogs was outside of a Jerry band show at the
Warfield or somewhere like that.
I mean, I really.
I didn't have to go far to sell it.
You know, the only people that were getting the chem dog were friends of mine
and friends of mine would beg me to sell it all to them just so that they could sell
it to their friends like you couldn't.
No one else could make money on it.
You know, I was selling the shit for 400.
Actually, that's not true.
I think Skunk BA, he might have made some money on it.
But, you know, I was selling shit for 400 bucks an ounce and like people like, fine,
I'll buy a pound.
You know, at the time I would only harvest three or four pounds and, you know, it's
three months to the next crop.
So I'd be fine just selling the weed over that three to four months for as much money
as I could. And so, you know, back then I was getting, you know, 400 bucks an ounce,
6400 pounds.
But, you know, it started off with friends just buying an ounce and then they would be
like, yeah, you know, I'll just buy the whole thing.
And so I told the story about how me and not so dog.
So I shared the story about how not so dog and I met and I wanted to share the stories
what I can remember of it, of how Skunk VA and I met and how Klopp and I met.
Yeah. So start with Skunk VA.
I moved to California, you know, after that apartment, you know, when my neighbor
friends asked me for some weed just before I left.
Yeah, we successfully made it out to Cali and rented this house.
It was like a little cottage in the backyard where we turned one of the rooms into a
grow. And I think we had six 600 watt lights, a total of 3600 watts.
And, you know, coming from a place where, you know, when I left Staten Island.
You know, that was I think it was less than that, you know, and, you know, people are
growing with fluorescent lights and so.
And, you know, if you get three pounds and you're getting 6400 a pound.
That's pretty good.
Yeah, it's decent.
You know, like, you know, like you could you were a baller.
Yeah. You know.
Yeah.
So back then it was way easier.
So but because I was so paranoid.
I never wanted to sell weed to people around, like around like where I live.
And so I was relying heavily on Grateful Dead, Jerry Garcia.
But when I had a crop come down.
And they weren't playing, which, you know, was rare, but every now and again, there was a
month or so where there was nothing happened.
Yeah. And, you know, so I went to Golden Gate Park to the Panhandle.
And.
This was before I had the chem-dug.
But I met Jason down in the Panhandle.
I like was like, hey, you know, I've got some time, but I want to sell.
And, you know, he was living out there.
And, you know, that's how we became friends, is I offered him some of my homegrown in the
Panhandle of Golden Gate Park, like the shadiest drug dealing part of Golden Gate Park.
And what were you growing at?
Like he started doing good.
I was growing like random seeds, you know, seed grown stuff.
So I had some Francine, but, you know, it was some good stuff, but it was.
You know, probably it was actually today I would appreciate it more, you know, I had some
stuff that had a lot of sativa in it.
Sure. And, you know, but it was hard to grow, particularly when you're not the best grower
and these things are getting big.
But then when you would smoke it.
You would get that sativa terps and be like, holy shit, you know, like it was impressive.
You know, I'm sure Skunk VA would remember the strain names.
I don't really remember anymore what it was.
It was nothing. It wasn't Chemdog or Sour or Super Skunk, anything on that.
Nothing that carried on.
It might have been. I might have taken home some RFK.
Yeah. You know, from Klopp.
I definitely want to talk more with you about that after we go over Klopp.
OK. But yeah.
And so I believe at the time, like he's just a traveling hippie and he eventually gets
we did many transactions.
He helped me sell a lot of my weed.
And then eventually he moved up to Sonoma County and, you know, I taught him how to
grow. So.
I think you were telling me that he credits someone else's being his mentor.
Is that what you said? I believe it was the person that he got the Virginia's.
Yeah.
I think that was more of a like I think I remember him telling me about this guy.
I think it was more like a mentor on a personal level.
You know, I was the one that first introduced him to growing.
Really, I think I could be wrong.
I'm sure if Jason tells different, he's correct because his memory is like so
ridiculous. But yeah, you know, I met Jason like that or Skunk VA.
And he.
You know, we became super tight and partners in a grow.
He grew the chem dog and then he eventually became partners with Ben in a grow.
And so that's how Ben or I see collective.
That's how they got it.
So. But yeah, like I've been friends with those guys now since.
Grateful dead, you know, and so that's one thing that I wanted to say, like you got a
little bit of the timeline wrong, I actually got to Jason.
But excuse me, it's going to be a I don't even know how he wants to be addressed.
It's fine. Yeah, but he.
We used to go see Jerry together at the Warfield, it was, you know, the best thing ever.
And he had a friend that came from New York, not New York, from Virginia.
And he saw the chem dog.
And he really wanted to.
And Jason was and he had some.
Huh? Wasn't it the Francine he wanted?
Chem dog. Oh, no, nothing.
Actually, you're right, because I didn't have it because you didn't have the chem dog yet.
He wanted the Francine.
I didn't even have the chem dog.
Right, because. Right.
I'm trying I'm trying to remember, like I'm surprised that he wanted the Francine that
bad that he was able that I was able to get to go for it.
I don't exactly remember.
I do remember some trade was made.
I met him and picked up the.
Uh, the skunk cut, the V.A.
skunk, which is not the super skunk, but it's definitely some skunky weed, probably a cross of it.
And Greg wanted this cut or chem dog.
So Greg would never give up a chem dog till I had this.
And he wanted this, so he was willing to trade it to me.
He asked that I not like really spread it around.
So the only people that I ever really gave it to were people that I was working with.
Sure. No.
But that's the much shorter story of how I got a chem dog from Greg, we traded for that skunk.
And the part of the story that I like to tell is I drove across country and I had it in a like Burger King cup.
You know, it was like in a, you know, two inch oasis cube or something like that.
And it was a growing, it was a growing cutting.
And like if there was a trucker coming by, I just like put the cap on it.
Or if I was like running into a gas station or something, I just put the cap on it.
But I drove the chem dog across country.
Um, in like two Burger King cups.
And, you know, I had one probably that had like a couple of chem dog cuts and another one that had the skunk cuts.
Wow.
So, and you said in the video that I didn't want the other cut that he had.
I probably was just already like, how the fuck am I going to get any of these cuts on?
Yeah, probably.
So like, with a couple of chem dogs and a couple of these skunks, it was already like an ambitious thing to do.
And of course, you know, I had a smoke.
10 joints.
Every day.
Driving fucking through Nebraska.
Like don't do that shit people.
Yeah.
Well, people these days, people use the mail and stuff, but homie straight up.
I mean, he drove all the way from the West Coast back East and then back again.
So, you know, it's like using the mail, using the mail wasn't an option.
Yeah.
Not, that was a no go.
Yeah.
So it was, it was, it was an entire journey.
It was a massive journey to get there and back again.
So.
I'll take a step in reverse and tell you, cause I met Klopp first.
Yes.
Klopp, he should be called Staten Island.
Even though he lives in Jersey now, but still he's more Staten Island, like than any of us.
And, um, so this is another girlfriend that I had.
Like we were like, we had just come back from the Grateful Dead shows to Staten Island.
Like we took a train and like home.
And we were just sitting on the street in front of his house and he didn't live in the
neighborhood.
You know, he lived on a really busy street right next to the train and it was like
businesses and his house is like up, you know, like on a second story above some business
or something.
And he's like, Hey, what are you, what are you guys doing down there smoking weed?
Cause of course we were.
Yeah.
And he's like, yeah.
So that's how I met Klopp.
One day, like me and my girlfriend was sitting on the street smoking weed and he called us
up into his place.
And at this point he had never grown weed.
But like we showed him Kind Bud and it was indoor.
And, you know, he was like, you can grow weed like this in your house.
And we're like, yeah, that's what this is.
And so like, I'm not going to say I'm his mentor or anything because he did everything
by himself.
But like I inspired him at that moment.
He like immediately went.
I'll never forget he had a 10 gallon fish tank and he put some dirt on the bottom of
it and then he planted some seeds and they sprouted and his cat fucking dug them up.
I've heard that so many times.
Oh yeah.
The horse cat is his cat dug him up.
But he eventually like he did it again.
And he put some plants in a closet, it was like maybe a two foot deep by six foot long
closet with like shop lights.
And that was the first cannabis that I ever saw grown.
So I had gotten, you know, beautiful Kind Bud in California and, you know, dead shows,
but I had never seen it grown.
Yeah. And even though it was under fluorescent lights, he was able to harvest weed in a
couple of months.
And that was kind of the inspiration for everything.
You know, at that point, I was like, I got to do this, you know, and that's so.
And, you know, obviously.
After, you know, doing all right, he eventually moved out of that place, got another place
and started growing with some real lights.
He didn't always grow with the shop lights.
But. And I mean, we talked about the RFK a little bit privately.
We went to some Grateful Dead shows, and the story is similar to the Ken Dog story, but
didn't turn out quite as famous, of course.
Sure. But.
Yeah, so he bought some flower at the dead show.
Found a couple of seeds, planted them, and he got the RFK number one, two and three.
Wow. And there's three different ones.
Yeah, there was.
Oh, interesting.
Interesting. How different were they?
You remember?
They were very different.
Oh, yeah.
Different enough that he would keep them all.
Interesting. Very interesting.
I wonder which one's still around.
Yeah. You have to talk to him about it.
Yeah, I can't. But, you know.
I'm a little embarrassed because, you know, my memory isn't as good as Francis's or Skunk
VA or Klopp, you know.
You're doing fine.
They all they all have their piece of the story.
And, you know.
Everything that I've heard has been accurate.
Yeah. You know, I haven't I haven't heard, you know, there's some like little details
that really. It's more about personal stuff.
I mean, OK, there's one thing that I have no evidence to, but I'd like to bring this up for
discussion. I don't really believe and I hate to just call people out, but I'm going to
know right now. I don't believe that Greg had these seeds from the same batch five or so
years later. And that's when he was germinating them.
Like those later seeds was something else.
And I mean, like he's even said it before that, like the chem dog is whatever he's growing at
that moment. Yeah.
And, you know, I don't think just because think about it from this perspective.
If you just popped a couple of seeds and pulled the most amazing chem dog ever, are you
going to wait five years to plant more of them and then five years more to plant the rest?
It's just like, you know.
Yeah. The logic's never wrong.
With yeah. With poor like knowledge on how to save the seeds, like the seeds probably
would have been no good five years later.
Yeah, definitely.
Nobody was seeing the seed in fridges.
Right. So I kind of.
That part of the story, you know, I would question that, but that wasn't even any part of
the story that I had anything to do with.
That's fair.
You know, so how did you interact with the chem D?
When did that come around?
I never had the chem D.
Oh, you never had it.
Well, so here's he did not because let's just say I could tell this part of the story.
I suppose. So I used to be a bit at times I used to be a bit of a bridge between Skunk
VA and Gabby here and there.
Right. You know, they had some battles and stuff like that back and forth, but he would
still come to Gabby's shop to buy stuff.
Yeah. Right. And there was this thing where he had gotten online.
I think it was in 06 or something like that.
He had gotten online and he had started talking about the chem on the forums for the first
time, which is where the whole Skunk VA moniker and all that started.
Right. Yeah.
And, you know, at that point, Chem Dog himself had not had the actual chem dog for some
years. Yeah.
Right. So he wanted it back.
And so Chem Dog told us, if you bring me the chem dog, I'll give you this new chem that I
had. Yeah.
So Skunk VA ended up flying out to back east or something with the the chem dog, what we
call the Chem 91, you know, giving it to giving it to dude and dude gave D and he brought
it back and he gave it to IC collective.
Yeah. Right.
And I see collective then gave it to me after they'd mommed it up.
Right. Yeah. But at that point in 06, you know, Gabby was doing so well with the shop and
stuff like that. He'd kind of taken a that was the beginning of your kind of hiatus, you
know, from collecting cuts and having that whole thing going on.
The shop was really booming then, you know.
He was, you know, so the chem D came around, you know, kind of after after he had, I guess
you could say, retired for a bit.
Gotcha. I actually I never liked the chem D nearly as much as everyone else.
No, you know, like I just, you know, and that's part of, you know, why I'm saying is
for me is the original chem dog.
And then there's everything else, you know, dude, you might you might have you might have
you probably lost this stuff in the fire.
I did everything in the early in the very early 2000s.
You had that you had this really nice camera and we remember we did that little like mini
greenhouse rip of the chem.
Yeah. My my backyard.
Yeah, my avatar on I.G.
is I still have like eight by eleven and a half photos.
You need to share that with me, bro.
That you I will that you printed out for me and my avatar is actually a picture of that
stuff that you and I grew together.
I don't even know. 2002 or something on it was for.
Are we talking about are we talking about the greenhouse, like the bigger greenhouse or
the small one? No, the little one in your yard.
Yeah, the little not the bigger one, the little one in your yard.
Yeah. I mean, like, you know, he just cut out there for a second, but what people should
realize is that like with these stories and stuff.
You know, we've acquired knowledge pretty well at this point, and it's pretty easy to
get started and learn a lot.
But like in the early and mid 90s and throughout the 90s, really, knowledge was hard to
come by. And people had some pretty hokey setups in the beginning.
Yeah, sounds like it.
You know, just because you're trying to get started, you're trying to figure out stuff
that worked. There's not much.
There's not you know, there's not grow stores.
There's not people there that will help you get set up or learn or anything like that.
I mean, it's not as easy to find grow books either.
Like unless you're at high times and risking your address.
I mean, when I first moved to California, the first little bit I was there, you know, it
was like, you know, going to I had to go to Berkeley from Mendo, which was a two and a
half hour drive.
Yeah. And, you know, Gabby worked at the first store that opened up in Sonoma.
And so I only had to drive an hour and 10 minutes just so people know it's like the
stories that I tell are like what I remember from him telling me this stuff.
But he was telling me all these stories, you know, 20 plus, you know, over 20 years ago.
Yeah. Long, long time, you know.
And I mean, I don't think Kem started to become famous or like well known as far as to
like the Canada community until probably like 06, 07 ish when Skunk VA got online and
started really telling the story to a wider audience.
So for, I don't know, years, it was literally like at least on the West Coast group of us.
Yeah. It was Gabby and Skunk VA and myself and I see collective.
And we were pretty much like the only people that had it.
You know, yeah.
And I mean, that's how they kept the cuts.
I mean, he kind of talked about how, you know, he was he was told to keep it close and he
didn't want to be considered stingy with it per se, but he wanted to keep his word, you
know, to whoever he had got it from.
And yeah, I mean, it sounds like it was kept pretty, pretty tight in those circles.
So it would have been hard for that to proliferate the culture at the time.
Super hard. You know what I mean?
It didn't it didn't leak really out of our tiny little group.
And I mean, really, like when it comes down to it, like like dude said, it was like it wasn't even like he gave it to like random people.
It was literally like the people that were closest to him that he was actively like growing and partnering and doing things with.
Yeah. You know, so it kind of when you when you when you have like these growth partnerships, if people don't know, like you're sharing your library as you're there.
So they have every opportunity to take cuts if they want to.
So you kind of go into it with the mindset that like what I'm sharing is what I'm sharing because we have this here.
I don't think I don't know if people know this, but I'll just say it anyway, is that I think when most famous people tell stories, you know, can a famous or whatever.
Right. Certainly me.
Not that I'm famous, but like certainly me.
But I believe almost everyone.
It's like when they tell the story, it's almost always a collaborative effort.
There's almost always some friends involved.
It's like a collection of homies doing stuff together, you know, and some of that sometimes depending on the ego of the person either gets included or left out.
Yeah, you know, like a lot of a lot of times people think, oh, you know, I was in my basement, I was all by myself, nobody even knew.
No, it's like just that's not really how how we'd growing worked, in my opinion.
It was like your best friends.
Yeah. They kind of had everything you had.
Yeah. You were helping each other keep things alive.
I mean, the the dog got lost in our crew by individuals numerous times.
Just never all four of us at once.
Yeah. You know, thankfully, you know, and so it's like I try to be, you know, I don't want to I don't ever want to get accused of like, you know, writing people out or something like that.
But sometimes I don't mention it just because like I'm worried about their privacy.
Sure. Maybe they've gone on to do something else or maybe they have a career or something like that that isn't the most conducive to like talking publicly about weed stories or something.
Well, in this case, Gabby, he and we talked about this off air.
He just he just didn't want to insert himself into the story.
He felt like he didn't do enough to warrant having like some big place in some story.
It wasn't a big ego flex for him on it.
The crazy thing is, as far as I'm aware, and this is just probably raw luck.
I don't think anyone would have the cut if.
He hadn't brought it West.
Yeah, there's no way. No, because what it seems to be is that and I was talking about this even with some like pretty unknown you can call him chem fam or whatever.
People that are very close to Chemdog and have been in that little circle for a long time.
It's like it got lost.
The original cut got lost back east.
Yeah. And, you know, it survived in this little teeny circle that we had.
So in that regard, the only you know, he can say he's not important, you know, but like if he hadn't brought it out to us, then nobody would have it.
Well, it would be a legend by even further extension had he not shown cloth that we wouldn't have sour.
Yeah, I mean, there's all kinds of yeah, there's all there's.
So it's like you can be, you know, I joke or whatever about like, you know, like being in the forest, being Forrest Gump and like stumbling around like an idiot while like fame, like important things happen around me or whatever.
But at some points in time, I think everyone has a little bit of that where like no one no no one knew any of these stories.
How many 17 year old kids have have, you know, how many young kids, how many young hippies have cracked seeds like Gabby was talking about?
And nothing ever came of it.
Yeah. And so a lot of it, too, is like you have differing memories from people and nobody had any idea that like everyone was going to like
parse every single statement.
Yeah.
Hoping little tidbits will bubble up.
So we were just talking, Gabby, about about how you were talking offline, about how you didn't want to interject yourself into the story.
But I was kind of saying, huh?
I'm trying to remember when what part of it we're talking about, just just chem dog in general.
And I was I was basically saying that, like, if I don't think if you hadn't brought it west, I don't think anybody would know what it is, because it's in our little how much how much how much credit do we give the postman for delivering our shit?
You know, like in the end, it's just like.
You know, and while you were gone, I think I think I'm part I think I'm part of the story, you know, but like.
You know what I wanted to be, my legacy was the not so dog.
Yeah, really?
Well, I mean, I was working on it, you know, I was working on Francis and I, you know, we were working on doing some breeding to make the next thing that was
that was going to be, you know, better than the dog.
Yeah. And honestly.
I think we failed terribly, you know, and.
That's Brady, you know.
Yeah, and, you know, it was first of all, my failed terribly.
We actually made some really awesome seeds.
Yeah. They just weren't what we wanted.
You didn't hit the goal you were going for.
We were trying to get, you know, chem and chem crosses.
And to me, nothing that we did was actually dog like.
Got you. You know, like the sour was stronger on it.
And, you know, like we could keep crossing it back to the chem dog.
And it just.
I was never satisfied with what what we had gotten, you know.
I think it was just like in the beginning phases of of the project, you know, of breeding.
And so what's interesting about that is that.
And wait, let me just say this real fast.
So the name not so dog, I have strains called the NSD, not so dog.
OK, it would be like NSD one, two, three, four or five, you know.
And because there were never dog like, you know, that's hilarious.
So that's why I say, like.
You know, I think I'm part of the story and I met people that, you know, we were all together at this time, you know.
So I mean, like you didn't really go into detail on sour like you mentioned meeting clock.
But what people may not know by extension is that clock is the sour guy, the diesel guy, you know.
Clop, clop people.
And honestly, that's why that's why when we're talking about it, we're talking about it, about the the AJ sour.
Sure. OK, I thought that that was the stuff that came from clock.
You know, and, you know, maybe they, you know, had rejuvenated it.
Sure. As we have rejuvenated.
But, you know, made some but I think I thought that that's where the stuff originally came from.
And I do like the story that Francis was telling about it being accidental.
Like, yeah, that's that's what I think.
All you know, I think it was all true.
I can't come on the show and say, Francis, you were wrong.
You got that completely wrong.
Most of it seemed pretty right.
Yeah, that's good. If he did, though, you could say that.
I mean, it does get it does get interesting when you talk to different people, because one of the things that Matt and I have learned is that when you take 20 year old memories and you start comparing them, what people remember and what stands out and like what there could be some some variations that they remember things a little different.
Like, you know, the the NSD or whatever, the whole reason why I came up with that name was because I was trying to join I.G. and every name I came up with, they rejected.
I'll tell a story for a minute.
There was this time where because there was only like four of us that had the dog, a lot of times Gabby would go and he would buy some dog off whoever had it the freshest.
And at the time, our buddy I.C.
Collective was living in Tahoe and Gabby went up to Tahoe and got some dog and he came back.
And I remember going out.
It was like dark.
And he picked me up and we were outside of Willits, which is a little town in Mendo.
And he's like, dude, I want you to see this stuff.
It's wild.
And like, so I'm in the dark and I open this bag and I stick my head in there and I'm like, dude, I don't know.
I don't know.
It doesn't remind me of the dog.
It's not so it's not so dog.
I don't know.
It doesn't.
And he was like, it looks so frosty.
It's so amazing.
I can't believe it.
And I was like, I think it's a different cut.
And it turned out that I.C.
Had been partying a little bit and there must have been some kind of like strain mix up or label mistake or he screw up on some level.
And he filled his entire room with what he thought was the dog.
And it wasn't.
Mm hmm.
And I like remembered that it was like this random joke, not so dog.
And so I popped it into the I.G.
And it worked.
And I was like, oh, well, I guess that's my handle.
You know, but yeah, but what we were trying to do, I also named our seeds.
I also named our clones not so dog.
Yeah. I mean, remember the labels and that's the one, two, three, four, five and six.
We what we were trying to do is we were trying to get like the power and the density of the dog in the same strain as like this.
We wanted like the frost of the skunk and like the stink and some of the herpes.
That's going to get confusing.
Frost of the skunk or the super skunk, which came with Gabby.
Well, that's something that we could clear from since he sees is the one that was white.
So that could that could be a recipe that she was white, so that could veer us off because so I had I I think I might and maybe I'm wrong.
Maybe I've been operating under a misconception for a really long time.
But when when you in in that era, when we met and you gave me the dog and you gave me the skunk, did you give me the Voss skunk or did you give me a different skunk?
I was pretty sure that you had given me the V.A.
skunk because when we grew it together all those times, you would tell me the story and you would never be like, oh, I lost that one.
But I have this different one now that's really good.
Well, there was the skunk and then there was the super skunk from since the seeds, we did buy some of those seeds.
So which one would you compare to the one in the catalog?
Well, that was the super skunk from since he sees.
I mean, I was telling you the story that you would look at the picture, you'd look at the picture and hold it up next to your buds and you'd be like, yeah.
Oh, yeah, we would get Gabby had original copies of Neville's Neville's catalogs.
Yeah, I am.
Sorry about that.
Gabby had original copies of Neville's catalogs and like we would clip off when we were gardening together, we would clip off side nugs off off skunk and hold it up to the picture.
And Gabby would be like, yep, that's it.
And it would look exactly like to the tee.
What was on that picture?
So did the V.A. skunk look exactly like the one in the catalog?
That's what we're trying to figure out.
No, I don't think so.
Like I said, it was unbelievable how uniform the shit was and exact like when you pop it was the only time ever in the history of the universe that somebody pops a seed and gets exactly what they're expecting.
Yeah. I mean, it was like, why would I keep all 10 of them when this one is exactly the same?
When this one is exactly what I'm wanting.
Sure. So so there was the seed grown sensei stuff and then there was the V.A.
The the clone that we picked up.
So what I don't know, I picked up was far in advance of the senses.
Is what you know, is what I got from you at your house in Sonoma.
I don't remember.
This is the flower.
I lost it when I got in trouble.
And I didn't have it at that time, that was like the KUSH sour diesel era, and it was like nobody was interested in old cuts and it was really hard to get stuff backed up.
So I've been hunting it for a million years and I pull on strings.
I would still like to have the original sensei super skunk.
I think you could put that shit next to any weed today and, you know, had the look, had the nose.
It's pretty much perfectly as close as you can get to it.
I love so one thing I disagreed with you about on the podcast was when you were talking about, you know.
It's all about the potency.
And I agree that it was some of the most potent weed of its time, but what made the chem dog amazing was the turf profile.
And that's what I wanted out of the breeding project was to get because I wanted to get some bigger.
And because the chem dog was such a hurting plant.
I think the way you described it was accurate, Matt.
You said the plant would consume itself before you'd finish it.
Like it was just trying to finish and still have a green leaf on it.
Not like, you know, like it's two weeks to go.
Everything is yellow.
You're not done yet.
But like this plant is dying.
You know, it was it was a difficult plant to grow and we didn't have the resources that we did do today.
You know, like if I was growing the chem dog today, I would definitely do leaf tissue analysis, you know, during the crop to see what it's taking.
And because that's smart back in the day, we were guessing.
Yeah, we didn't have these resources and we were failing.
I mean, the funny part, you know, now the chem dog, you know, it's a plant that's going to die.
You know, now the chem dog grown to a point where it's going to die was still better than all the other weed out there.
Yeah. You know, so he would do this thing where he was fully organic when we met and I wasn't.
And he wouldn't call it chem dog because he's like, I grow organic.
I'm not going to call my weed chem, you know.
But then there would be this funny thing where he'd look at me and he goes, but it does like GH3 part.
And it won't eat itself quite as much if you feed it that.
You know, that's because that's what Greg was doing.
OK, well, other people were doing like when I was organic, I never had done the hydro.
You know, yeah, so so I'll tell this part of the story briefly.
This is part of the story that I like to tell.
Is, you know, Greg called it the chem dog, and he specifically told me, you have to grow this one chem because it's so hard to feed it.
You'll never get a successful crop out of it if you try to grow it organic.
And to me, that was like a challenge.
Sure. I was like, well, I'm definitely not going to grow it using hydro, you know.
And then I used to do so much trying to feed my plants indoors, you know, with organics.
I not only had like guano teas, but I used to make like vegetable scrap teas and all this nasty, like anaerobic shit going on, like smelled so bad.
And I'm doing whatever I could trying to feed my plants organically.
And one day I read on the back of this flyer from a hydronutrient company, it was actually Green Arrow Products.
They had a hydronutrient that never was successful.
But on the back of the whole thing, they were explaining what's the difference between organic and inorganic.
OK, and, you know, so inorganic is minerals and organics are minerals, mineral compounds that are held together by carbon and that they need to be broken down into their more mineral form.
For the plant to uptake it.
Yeah. And then it says the minerals are the building blocks of all life on the planet.
You know, and it was like a moment for me when a light switch went on and I was like, oh, maybe I need to try this.
And I did, you know, and I don't think it was the GH3 part at first.
I don't even think that shit existed.
You know, it was like General Hydroponics.
They had like a three part powder.
Yeah, like a micro and then the grow of the bloom.
And yeah, but the first time I fed my plants hydronutrients, even in like a cocoa or peat moss type stuff.
You know, and what I did and what I still believe to this day is the best is using mineral nutrients and adding some organics.
That way, you know, you're giving the plant everything that it needs.
Right. And then you can give it some things that it appreciates and a little humility, not thinking like we know plants only need 16 elements.
Well, yeah. Now we know when we give the plant silica, they benefit from it.
They may not die without it.
But if you're trying to get the highest quality product.
It's helpful, you know, when used properly.
So, yeah, that's what I try to do is use minerals, add some organic additives, compost tea, you know, when you can do that.
That's how I think you get the best quality and quality and quantity.
I agree.
No, I can't.
It's out of an indoor grow.
And the other thing that I'll say is, and I'm going to have to let you guys go in a few minutes, but no worries.
I can finish with this part is a lot of people think they're growing organic.
Because they have a like hundred gallon smart pot filled with ocean forest soil.
Right. And I give it just water.
And they think that their product is superior because they didn't use any nutrients.
Sure. Like just because they made it to harvest, you know, I don't think if I think if you're growing in a
container and you're trying to grow organically.
I think you're kidding yourself if you think that you're getting the best, like the most nutritious food out of it.
Yeah.
Most nutritious medicinal product out of it.
Yeah.
Now to take that to the next part is I think the best medicine or food will be grown in the ground with soil that's been nurtured and loved.
So I didn't become an organic snob to like somebody that instantly went full on chem.
And, you know, I think, you know, if you nurture the land, you know, you can grow the most amazing product directly in ground.
Yeah.
If you have to go, we can continue it tomorrow, too.
Let's do that.
But I'll tell one super quick story, which is Gabby had gone to the Oregon Country Fair for a long time.
And so he used to work there.
And so once we became really good friends, he brought me up there a number of years and I worked the cruise that he was already part of.
Right. And so it's outside of Eugene or whatever.
And this was like the heart of organic weed growing land.
Yeah. And I would come up there with like my hydro super skunk and my hydro chem dog, my hydro Mendo P and super dog that Gabby and I had made together.
And I was like the only one there with salt weed.
And they were all like salt is terrible, only cheating, evil, bad people use salt.
And then they would be like, but this weed is that these guys have amazing.
It's pretty good.
Yeah. I don't know.
It's pretty good.
You know, and so we were like teaching each other because they were like, oh, we would just like they were mixing all their soil and like in like cement.
Welcome to Breeder Syndicate 2.0, where we explore the history of a clandestine scene, researching everything from cannabis strain history, old smuggling tales from the first person perspective to breeding science and news on current subculture.
I'm your host, Matthew, and I'll occasionally be joined by my homie, Not-So-Dog, breeder and grower from Mendocino, to speak on these subjects and sometimes interview other participants.
Our goal is to document this history before it's written by corporations and others who just weren't there.
Let's start righting some wrongs.
Welcome to the underground.
