Welcome to Breeder's Syndicate.
Hello, bastards and bastardettes.
How we doing?
So, as you saw, I think we're going to have CSI Humble come stop by.
He may not show up at the very beginning, but he'll be here at some point.
And we will go over what he saw in the NL reproduction.
So we'll keep our eyes peeled for when CSI pops up.
You guys let me know.
Wasabi.
I need to teach you how to use a camera.
What do you mean teach me how to use a camera?
As my own head's cut off.
Yeah, this is a professional...
There's a thing called head space that you need to get.
There you go.
This is a professional... I'm just analyzing my shit.
You're just super anal.
Dude, I like logged in and like your shit was like aiming at the wall.
I know. I start off with a scenery of my ceiling.
You do.
Yeah, because nobody wants to see my fucking face the first time they jump in.
I don't want to traumatize anyone. I want it to be smooth.
Definitely not.
Yeah.
Alright.
So...
Trying to think of how to start this.
Well, I don't know what you said because I just popped on.
I haven't said anything.
We're hoping, managing technical difficulties and whatnot,
that we might be able to get CSI on to chat about some stuff.
Yeah.
And this Friday evening, we kind of decided that we were going to maybe sort of merge
something that's current going on right now with some historical shit.
Right?
And we had an excellent opportunity to do that in the NL5 project that Matt and CSI have been up to.
And NL5 probably needs no introduction in the sense that it's probably like one of the most famous terms in all of cannabis.
Yeah.
But there's a lot of legend behind it and there's a lot of misinformation behind it.
And so we thought for this episode, maybe we could sort of like take you guys through like how it started,
some of the history to it.
And a lot of this stuff has been chatted about in various ways and shapes and forms.
But we thought it might be interesting to sort of like coalesce it all into one show.
Yeah.
And start from back then and sort of bring it into the now.
Bring it into the modern times.
Yeah.
Because, you know, so I mean, I've done I've helped with some like 90s stuff and it makes me feel old.
But, you know, the 90s is like 30 plus years ago now.
And the 80s when all this shit was happening was 40 plus years ago now.
So most people in cannabis have heard about NL5, but it's mostly just legends.
And there's a lot of misinformation and a lot of funny cuts and a lot of odd stories.
And so we kind of thought we'd just chat about those kind of aspects a little bit and sort of merge the history with a little bit of the project that these guys are doing because they tie in together.
They do.
So that's kind of.
Yeah.
I mean, where do we want to start?
You know, we can start with maybe I'll start maybe we can start with just the generalization, you know, and then we'll start with some history.
So the reason why everybody knows what NL5 is, in my opinion, is because of Neville.
Right.
Neville popularized it.
He picked a selection and he used the NL5 and a bunch of famous crosses, one of which was probably the most famous line of all time, the NL5 Haze.
Yes.
And then other groups and Canadian seed banks and all these different things started using the name NL5, NL5.
Right.
And it just sort of became part of the fabric of cannabis history.
Yeah.
If you will.
Right.
That's a lot misunderstood about it or whatever, but it's probably one of the most recognizable terms in cannabis.
Yeah, I think even people like my parents, my mom, my dad was who he was with weed, but my mom had nothing to do with it.
She wanted nothing to do with it, never learned it.
And even she is sort of Northern Lights as a straight.
And Northern Lights and Northern Lights 5 and all that.
And so now what we've got going on is, is I've joked on previous episodes or whatever that like when I was trying to collect a lot of old stuff, it was almost impossible.
But now we're kind of in this wave of, you know, famous things from the 80s and 90s, you know, or in any form they might exist in has got a resurgence of popularity and interest.
And people want to see what's up with, you know, what was once common becomes legendary.
Yeah.
Right.
It's really, it's kind of what it boils down to.
And so for anyone that came into the weed scene later, when NL5 was already kind of a myth, you know, you know, hopefully we can like clear up a bunch of stuff because there's a lot of, there's a lot of people that are talking about the name.
Yeah.
Right?
Yeah.
So, when we tell this tale, let's go ahead and start with, there was a man named Herbie.
Sure.
And Herbie went to a certain hair salon where the Northern Light crew hung out.
And he would go to, they would go to this hair salon and commune and smoke weed and talk stuff.
Well, this guy named Herbie came in and he was a veteran and he wanted to be able to grow and make a living for himself.
So they set him up with some lights and some of the original Steve Murphy Afghani seeds and he had some of his own different hybrids he was working with, mostly Colombian and Mexican, I believe that was the quote.
Yeah.
And he was the one who selected this NL5 clone from his own work with the Steve Murphy Afghan and the Hawaiian.
So, yeah, I mean, probably the way that people can understand it the best is that there was a loose collective group of friends, you know, you know, acquaintances, whatever, in the Pacific Northwest area.
Yeah.
Herbie was one, there was a guy named, some people call him the Indian, was another one.
Steve Murphy was a different one.
There was, you know, a, there was a number of different characters all involved at various points.
And so it was a mostly, everyone has to remember that in that time in the early 80s, almost everything in America was still sativa and blends of different sativas because all the, all the weed that came into America was seeded sativa weed.
Right.
So the core of everybody starting to breed was you got three seeds with your sativa weed.
Lots of them.
Lots of them.
And the rare shit was indica because indica made hash, hash didn't come with free seeds.
And so indica seeds were really hard to acquire.
They came from people on the hippie hashish trail, people like Sam skunk man and Neville and others made trips to Afghanistan, which in that era was extremely difficult to do.
And dangerous.
It's dangerous.
And they started bringing back small amounts of seeds.
So unlike sativa that was getting sativa seeds spread out all over America in every kilo that was sold.
Indica seeds were hard to come by.
Yeah.
The NL story starts with a very small handful of seeds of pure indica that came from this dude named Steve Murphy.
Yeah.
Right.
And then of course, just like anybody, um, the group in the Pacific Northwest up there started making hybrids of this stuff.
They crossed it to itself.
They crossed it to everything else they had.
And the, the famous numbers of NL basically, you know, connotate like the lower the number, the more indica and the shorter it was.
Yeah.
So the one, two, three, four were, were pre you know, predominantly indica based and smaller and you start getting into five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10, 11 and they start getting more and more sativa.
Now Matt's already interviewed one of the main characters, uh, in the, in, in this thing.
And he basically stated that they took that Steve Murphy Afghan and they crossed it to every sativa they could get their hands on.
So Hawaiians, Mexicans, Columbians, Thai, Indians, blends of those things, hybrids of those things all back and forth.
Right.
So the NL five, they had this buddy named Herbie who got involved and a Herbie had a Hawaiian.
Okay.
And this Hawaiian was, um, you know, he crossed, it got crossed to the Steve Murphy Afghan and the, it got called NL five, uh, for its position and the height and the blend of sativa versus indica or whatever.
And they found a Fino that they really, really liked.
So NL five initially was a seed line created within that little crew.
And then Herbie gave back to the NL crew, like this select Fino that he was super excited about.
And so the, as best we can tell, it's a pure Afghan from Steve Murphy on the one side and a Mexican Columbian, we believe on the other side.
That was called a Hawaiian because.
It was grown in Hawaii, but there is no indigenous Hawaiian weed.
Yeah.
Most Hawaiian weed was Mexican Columbian, a blend of those two or a blend of those two with Afghan.
Right.
So, um, you know, and then as, you know, as the story has been told, uh, this gentleman, um, sent Neville, uh, a, uh, a whole bunch of seeds all numbered.
Right.
Yeah.
And, uh, I don't know if you have any of those catalogs handy, but Neville's story is that Neville's story is that he was, um, you know, he did a lot of work with them.
And a lot of them, as we found out were a mess because they were a blend of indica and sativas.
Yeah.
And in this one seed of NL five out of a bunch of indica sativa hybrids and a mess, he found this plant that was what he called the pure indica throwback that showed zero sativa influence.
Yeah.
It was short, it was squat, it was leafy, it was covered in frost.
It didn't have a lot of smell.
Um, and so he started crossing this to things and it crossed amazingly well with basically everything he threw on it.
Yeah.
So the legend of NL five was born because he crossed it to skunk one and he crossed it to NL, he crossed it to Hayes and he crossed it to NL two and he crossed it to a few other things.
Uh, it started showing up in poly hybrids he made like silver pearl and it just sort of became one of the building blocks of his genetic library.
And since he was one of the first dudes that had a seed bank, anything that he had that he threw into a bunch of crosses kind of went everywhere.
Yeah.
Right.
And the guys are winning high times, you know, stuff and it's getting big glossy pictures and NL five Hayes was the most popular strain they sold.
So the legend of it just took off.
Now there's a debate here because what was indisputable is that he went to the States and he got, uh, the Pacific Northwest hash plant and the, um, and the G 13 through friends of, uh, another guy who's pretty famous named Jorge Cervantes.
Some friends of his hooked him up and he arranged for the cutting that the guys in the Pacific Northwest were growing as NL five to be shipped over.
Right.
Yeah.
And so they did this, they did this clever thing where they shipped this plant over in a terrarium of other plants and they took scissors and they cut the serrations off the edges of each of the pot leaves.
So it didn't look like wheat.
That's sick, huh?
That's a sick idea.
They just shaved all that off.
So it looked unusual.
And if Neville is posted, uh, back when he used to post on Mr. Nice that he didn't like that one as much because it wasn't as consistent of a breeder as the one he found amongst the seed line.
Yeah.
So he didn't use it.
Yeah.
Right there you have this massive confusion where everybody thinks NL five is the same thing where it is kind of the same thing, but there's a seed line that never got out.
There's a clone that they selected from that seed line that was popular in Washington.
Yeah.
And there's a clone that Neville found amongst seeds they sent to him and they all got called NL five.
Yes.
And that's where a lot of the confusion lies.
So people think they'll be like, Oh, I've got the same clone that Neville used and all of his breeding, but it never left the West coast.
Yeah.
Well, no, because Neville says he found it in seed.
Yeah.
You know, so there was, there was two select cuttings even early.
And, you know, most people don't realize this, but Neville says his was like a total Afghan throwback.
And the one that, that the Seattle crew describes had like two foot colas on it.
Right.
Yeah.
That's a long running lime green colas.
Well, yes and no.
Yes and no.
If I remember, if I remember it was stated that they combined different buds to make it look like it had a massive cola for Neville in the picture.
Oh, Jesus.
Yeah.
So that would, there was some fun stuff going on.
There was some shenanigans perhaps.
Yes.
Shenanigans abound.
There was some shenanigans.
So there's a, so yeah, I mean, there's an aspect where I'm sorry, I'm looking down for a second.
Cause Matt didn't have his catalog handy.
I know I always do too.
But I do.
I don't know if there's a bigger version of this, but if everyone wants to look that picture right there.
That is a picture of the mother cut taken in Amsterdam and put in the Sensi seeds catalog taken when it won a cup in 1995.
It was printed in the 96 catalog.
That is a, that is one of the few existing pictures of an actual growing NL five that Neville used.
And you can see it's short, it's squat, it's leafy as fuck.
You know, it's got all these things going on to it.
And so, you know, so NL five Neville said that NL five was NL five Hayes was probably the most famous and best selling thing in his whole catalog, both at his seed bank and later at Sensi.
Yeah.
The NL five skunk one got renamed.
I don't know if it was renamed Shiva, Shiva skunk.
Yeah.
I think it was renamed Shiva skunk at Sensi seeds, but it was sold the whole time.
So probably it was sold from 87 or 88 all the way through, you know, 1999 or the early 2000s.
Still probably to this day, but it's not the same shit.
Yeah.
And NL five Hayes was sold consistently.
So, you know, it just kind of entered into the lexicon.
Everybody knows NL five Hayes.
Yeah.
And it's gotten old enough now that a bunch of people are like, oh, I have it.
I have the original cutting.
I have the this.
I have the that.
So, you know, you know, and and and, you know, it it someone saying nothing about the NL crew telling Neville that I mean, Neville, you know, Neville spoke about the NL, but he basically like has said that he just got he just got these labeled seeds and he made his own inferences about.
You know, so, you know, he had he had to make it up, basically, like he had to think, what am I seeing?
Yeah.
And then, you know, the guys back then, it was in the 80s and they were all scared of getting busted.
So they didn't really take copious notes.
No.
And that was the whole times, you know, and we actually know a bit more about the NL five than we know about a lot of the other NL numbers because of what Herbie was working with and what he said he crossed to the Steve Murphy to get the NL.
Five.
Yeah.
So it's like a lot of things, you know, I mean, a lot of a lot of a lot of greetings are collaborative.
It's a small group of friends doing one part at my garage and you do the next part of yours and this and that and everything else.
And who's responsible for it?
There might be one or two people that gets known for it.
But in reality, there's a whole little group that's involved.
Yeah, it was a kind of small group.
Yeah.
Right.
Yeah.
So, you know, and then, you know, when it comes to NL five, Hayes Neville claims that right before he left, since he about 95 ish, they lost the mother of NL five.
So it died.
And it makes kind of sense because if you like there's a bunch of NL five Hayes cuts that still are kept in in America, especially in the New York region and in Amsterdam.
And they all are basically from 88 to 95.
Yeah.
You know, there's not really people aren't really like, oh, I got this one in 2002.
But there was a lot of fire in those seven or eight years that they were able to marry those two plants together.
Yeah.
You know, and then, you know, Super Silver Hayes and stuff like that was kind of Neville's attempt to blend the three most famous Amsterdam lines together, which was NL, Skunk and Hayes.
And so, you know, now we have this whole thing where everything gets different names and different nicknames and tons of shit has NL or Skunk or Hayes blended into it.
Yeah.
But you might not know because it doesn't have that name attached.
Yeah.
You know, no.
Someone said I assumed it was Finos of one to nine.
No, it was different hybrids.
So NL one was almost pure Afghan.
And L2 was another Afghan that they actually got like a Kush type Afghan from the Indian.
And they blended that to Steve Murphy.
Yeah.
So three and four sort of lost a time.
Nobody has them, but they were also, you know, they started increasing amounts of sativa and five through eleven were just the NL crews crossing that Afghan to different sativas.
Yeah.
And, you know, the more the higher the number, the taller the plant, the more sativa influenced.
Yeah.
Right.
Yep.
That's how we know it.
So if you look around at some of Neville's early catalogs, you can see him playing around.
He uses the eight.
He uses the five.
He uses the nine.
He's got the one and the two, you know, all these different things.
And then after three or four years, he decided basically that he was only going to breed with the one, the two and the one cutting of the five that he found.
Yeah.
And so all these other hybrids kind of go away.
Because probably because they were mixes of extreme sativas with indica and they were probably a lot more of a pain in the ass for a breeder to tame.
Yeah.
And he did have high as far as his keepers.
He did use a rigorous selection.
So he didn't keep he went through a lot of seeds.
Yeah.
And the Indian, I believe the Indian was Native American, but I can't say that for sure.
He was Native American.
But he was he was part of the Pacific Northwest crew.
Yeah.
And a lot of these guys aren't aren't well known and don't want to be in the well known because in the 80s, especially in the late 80s, there was a series of rolling busts and they all got in trouble.
Yeah.
So it was a hard time to be a cultivator.
You know, getting a green merchant.
Yeah.
Yeah. And all that.
It was there was a lot of persecution back then.
There was a lot of secrecy back then.
That's part of why they didn't keep copious notes, because they didn't want them to be used against them in a court of law later on.
And so, you know, but basically, I think it's fair to say that the reason why everybody knows NL5 is because of Neville.
I think that's fair.
I think everybody agrees with that, too.
Because he and even like the Seattle guys will say that if they hadn't sent it to Neville, it likely would have been lost.
Yeah.
Because they went through a rolling series of busts and had issues.
Yeah.
So it was sold at Neville Seed Bank for a number of years and then it was sold at Sensi for a number of years after that.
Never pure.
Right.
Always a hybrid.
Skunk One, Hayes, NL2, Silver Pearl, other polyhybrids blended together, but never really by itself.
Yeah.
So there was a pure seed line of NL5, but nobody got it.
It wasn't sold. It didn't make it to out of Amsterdam.
It was given to like a couple people. And even like, even like some of the Seattle guys said that there was a couple of cuts that got out.
The eight, the nine, and maybe one of the twos from the Indian, but nothing else.
Yeah.
So the five survived because it went to Amsterdam.
Basically.
Yeah. That's the only reason it survived.
That's the only reason why it survived.
So if you listen to the Seattle crew, they had one version of NL5 that they kept as a cutting and kind of cropped out.
Neville found a breeder that he kept, you know?
Yeah.
And, you know, it kind of went into legend.
You know, and so, you know, and so, yeah, I see all kinds of people.
What's up with this person's NL1? What's up with this NL5?
What happened is, is because it became so famous.
Okay.
Two things happened.
One is that in Amsterdam, anytime anything gets famous, people get seeds of it and they white label it.
Yeah.
Right. And they offer up their own versions of it.
Okay.
And then on top of that, when the Canadian seed companies got involved, they ended up buying a bunch of stuff from Amsterdam, blending it to Canadian strains and claiming that they had these things for sales purposes.
Yeah.
You know, so you get and they all have sort of dodgy history.
Yeah.
When it comes to provenance.
What I've told you so far is pretty much factually agreed to by the people that sent it to Neville and Neville.
Yeah.
And people around Neville.
Yeah.
You know, and then it gets famous and there's a proliferation of people and seed banks that claim to have various stuff.
But they weren't passing out this cutting to other people.
No.
They weren't sharing it just so other people in different continents could make their own seeds with it.
It wasn't like today where people were trading seeds back and forth.
No.
And clones back and forth, especially to competitors.
You know, the Dutch are extremely business oriented.
Very.
They're not going to just like bro out.
And that's why Matt's laughing, because they very are very much business oriented.
If they have a cut and everyone else wants it and they're breeding off it and making money, there's not really a chance they're going to share that fucking thing.
And there's a definite chance everybody's going to say that they have it.
Yeah.
There's a definite chance that everyone's going to say they have it and they're going to use that.
Any name that becomes famous in cannabis gets used.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You know, so someone asked about, you know, and so that's kind of like that's kind of where NL five, you know, just got crossed to some very famous things.
And Neville made some very fucking famous lines off it.
And there wasn't that much weed strains back then.
And the combination of that and high times being like the premier magazine in the 90s and you get all these high quality glossy photos and all the the cannabis cups and there was only one cannabis cup a year.
Yeah.
So this shit got hella famous.
Legendary.
You know?
Yeah.
And, um, you know, one.
And what about one?
What's that?
What about, you know, one?
Oh, Denali's question.
Oh, I didn't see it.
I mean, and that one is probably the closest thing to Steve Murphy Afghan.
It's it's it's got a little bit of discrepancy between the guys involved as to what exactly is in it.
Yeah.
Um, but, you know, it's that's kind of irrelevant because what actually got sold is what got sent to Neville and everybody should know that Neville got it in in, uh, in 84, 85 and spent two or three years seeing what he had.
So if you bought Northern Lights in 85 or 86 or even 87 from his catalog, it was a fucking hodgepodge of any of the lines all blended together.
Yeah.
It wasn't until about 88 that, uh, um, it wasn't about I'm going to turn off my light because people are bitching.
It wasn't about the 88 that he started coming out with and L1 and L2 and L5.
Yeah.
Right.
And, uh, you know, and so and then so then these numbers get attached.
I think.
Nineteen eighty nine late 88 is when NL five Hayes got released.
Yeah.
And NL five skunk one and NL five this.
And so NL one and L2, you know, when it went to Sensi, um, you know, they just called it L1 Northern Lights.
Yeah.
And they called NL two Hindu Kush.
Uh, and so lots of people got NL because it was one of the most common things.
Yeah.
So I had to screenshot something that's funny.
No.
Yeah.
It's hard.
I mean, people ask questions.
Sometimes I'll get it.
Sometimes not.
It's really hard to like, pat your head and rub your stomach at the same time.
So, like, I try to chat about something and sound like, you know, fairly have a, have some flow.
And then I read a question and I think about it and all of a sudden I'm not talking and I'm just staring at the screen.
So forgive me for all that.
You know, if I miss your question, I'm sorry.
It's just the way it works.
So, you know, I've chatted about this a bunch before on some of the previous podcasts and a little bit more detail, but that's what got it famous.
That is the story.
That is, that is, that is the story.
And so now anytime anything becomes famous, you know, it's kind of like music or fashion or something like that.
It gets fucking recycled.
Right.
Like it gets old and most people don't know about it.
And then all of a sudden people are like, I've got this ancient NL five cut and I'm making beans.
I've got this, this, this, you know, you know, and maybe, maybe Matt, you could explain the booth cut or the, the new cut.
I don't know.
I've never talked to Voting about that one.
And I keep me to ask him because people ask it a lot, but I don't know the history on that one.
So, I mean, people, you know, and, you know, people asked about Bob Hemphill and, you know, and, and, and Ella and stuff like that.
And so people have been people, you know, it's really hard when you get seed, when you get seeds and lines that are, that are 25, 30 years old, plus provenance on it becomes difficult.
Yeah.
Right.
You know, apparently, you know Hemphill used to work with the coastal seeds collective and apparently, you know, he got it through some friend of Cogus, you know but NL one was sold for, you know, what, probably 20 years.
Yeah.
For a long time.
For a long time.
It was, it was sold.
It was, and there was never a specific cut.
I mean, Neville had some breeding males that he used.
And Neville's thing was almost always males.
Yeah, they were part of his breeding males and so it wasn't like NL five well, well, never Neville just had one cutting that had to be kept alive.
Yeah, and L one was kind of like a line.
Yeah.
And so, any like Durban poison or something right yeah so anytime there's a line it's a lot harder to lose the line.
Then it is when you're dependent on one specific cut to stay alive and keep going.
Yeah.
And the other thing is because these, these, these fucking Dutch guys are such businessmen.
When you're not sharing a cut amongst your homies and your good friends.
It exponentially increases the chance that some kind of disease or accident or drought or worker error is going to kill your fucking cut that griddle get you.
And then you haven't shared it. So it gets lost.
Right. Yep.
And, you know, and so Ben and Alan drunkers aren't generous people.
They weren't sharing. They weren't sharing shit with anybody.
You know, and, you know, so I don't know I mean it. It.
NL five is super famous NL is super famous that we went through probably a 10 year period where nobody gave a shit.
Probably starting right around the cush sour going into cookie era. Yeah.
Where old things were just old and unpopular.
Right. Yeah, it's just, yeah, things like Northern Lights skunk one.
Things that, that like people are kind of looking at now like, oh, they got the fucking cheese.
Like if I saw that in a, in a store with tons of clones and, you know, the early mid 2000s, it's like, huh?
I give me some of that new shit. Nobody was worried about that because it was so abundant.
Oh, I mean, we had a, I can't remember who said it, but it's absolutely true.
You know, 15, 20 years ago, you, you bought seeds from Nirvana, gypsy Nirvana, and you got free skunk one seeds because he might as well because you had so many of them and it was so common.
It was, you know, you had to give them away. Yeah.
Because nobody wanted to buy them. Yeah, it was super abundant.
And so there's a thing where everything's so common. Why would anyone want it?
And people's tastes and change, you know, people's, you know, taste changes and then it becomes rare and then people want it again.
Yeah. But most people in cannabis don't hold on to anything unless it's currently profitable.
So what, what once becomes we've, we've seen it over and over and over and over again.
You know, where something that was once abundant becomes uber rare or lost to time.
Like I'll say it straight up. If it, you know, hopefully he pops on here this evening, but if it wasn't for CSI loving the Urkel and breeding with it a ton, most people wouldn't have access to it.
Yeah. His prolific breeding is probably the reason why that genetics survive.
Yeah. And I'm not saying he's the only person that held it.
No, but, but it got, I used to know, I mean, we're not going to talk about purples very long here tonight, but like I used to know dozens upon dozens of growers 15 years ago that ran Urkel and you, and then diesel and Cush gets popular and like six people held onto it.
Yeah. Literally. Yeah. It's yeah. That's how it goes, dude.
And the reason why I brought that up is because that's how super skunk became almost extinct. That's how nobody can find the, the, the dead skunk turps. That's how all these things become rare or hoarded or extinct is they're so common. Nobody thinks they need to care to preserve it.
And then hippies and growers start looking around at who's got that old school and they can't fucking find it.
And a lot of times the name game happens, it'll get a different name or, you know, someone makes seeds with it and he has a different name that it carries on with. So people don't even know to look in that direction for said one of these baselines.
Yeah. We've talked about that before too, where I love the counterculture aspect of Americans giving weed nicknames.
Yeah.
But for lineage, it's a real pain in the ass.
No, it's terrible.
Because we take whatever the name of the actual thing is and it gets a nickname and then it goes to a different crew and they give it a different fucking nickname.
Yeah.
And then it goes to this other crew and they give it a spin on that name.
Yeah.
And then 20 years goes by and you're trying to trace what the hell it is.
Yeah. Plain telephone.
And you've got to go through four or five nicknames back and then you get to the core thing and then the trail goes dry.
So now, after 10 or 15 years of nobody giving a shit about Northern Lights, it's hot.
Yeah.
People want to try these ancient things that they grew up when they were kids reading about.
The first true famous weed.
Yeah.
They want to see what's up. They want to see what's up with it.
And so now, because there's interest, now all of a sudden where there's interest, there's economy and people start popping up with it.
Yeah.
All over the place.
And most people probably don't know that there was two completely distinct cuts that were used.
One from America and one from Holland.
Yeah.
And there was a seed line, but it was given out to nobody.
And then you see stuff where I've got NL5 Pure.
Well, how?
Oh, yeah. Lots of that.
Right? How?
Yeah.
You know?
I mean, you can know that Neville had it pure because the guy that made it says, I sent it to him pure along with the rest of it.
Yeah.
And Neville says, I got it pure from dude.
Okay. They both agree.
Here's when I sent it. It exists.
But did you share it with anybody? No.
So everybody has a bunch of hybrids or Canadians got it and sold their shit.
And then people get it and it's got a name attached and they're like, you know, there it is.
Yeah.
You know, and because we're cannabis and because all of our stories are kind of black market or underground or prohibition, it gets really difficult to sometimes it comes down to who you choose to believe.
Yeah. And that's a lot of the time with a lot of these strains.
And so some people will get like NL and the guy will be like, I've had this for 30 years and never left the West Coast.
It's this.
Yeah.
And they're like, great. It's this. That's all the proof I need.
Let's start breeding with it. And it's this.
And now it's labels all over the place and people are buying it. And is it that?
One thing one thing I also noticed was that during the Phylos era, a lot of people would get said clone that they got with dubious heritage or whatever.
They submitted to Phylos and by doing so say that Phylos verified their clone is legitimate.
You know.
Yeah.
Yeah. That happened. That started happening a lot, too.
And that was a real problem because and as we learned, allegedly, yeah, Phylos couldn't tell people any kind of plant relation with any consistency.
And I think that maybe we should say this about CSI is that it doesn't matter what it is.
But CSI sent in this is how Matt, myself and CSI discovered that Phylos was really, really, really full of it.
We had some evidence before, but this was kind of one of the big kickers was that CSI had made a cross and he sent in both parents.
I don't know if he wants to story out so much.
No. Yeah. Well, I'll shut up about it. I didn't even mention what it was.
But I'll just say this. We discovered that their genetic sequencing wasn't as strong as we would have hoped.
Yeah. Yeah. It was it was definitely disappointing with the consistency of it.
You know, and so people thought that their genetic testing was like American genetic testing.
Yeah. Where you can have 23 and me or some shit and be like, oh, my God, I'm 5 percent Norwegian.
And, you know, grandpa was from Germany and this guy and I'm like, and I'm part African or whatever.
Yeah. And we were hoping that same kind of accuracy would be transferred into weed.
Yeah. And I'm trying to move Caleb in.
Oh, we'll see. Caleb, click the thing and say request to join if you can.
If you if you see how to do that. With the request to join button so I can add you in when you got time.
All right, go ahead. Yeah. So, I mean, it and, you know, in order the other the other thing about it is, is for like talking about human genetics is geneticists can go to like a pure Norwegian or a pure Japanese or a pure Chinese or whatever.
And they can start comparing DNA. Yeah. And seeing these different things and they know how to sequence it.
If it would be amazing if DNA evidence had existed in Holland in the 80s.
Yeah. And Neville and an SSC and and Sency in these early groups would have been able to like put down markers of what was what.
Yeah. And then we could have seen their descendants because you'd have something to compare it to.
Yeah. But that's not always the case. That's not always the case. So, you know, so it remains a dream because here he is.
Oh, there he is. Sir, your lighting is terrible.
But if you just you look like you look like you're on 60 Minutes and you're one of those like grayed out, you know, like guys with this protection program.
It's too bright in here. It's too bright in here. Yeah. Well, I can hear your voice.
Too bright. Yeah. I am trying to, you know.
Well, you look beautiful. Oh, thank you. Thank you.
So maybe I talk a lot. So maybe I'll do like introduction. Not that one's needed. And then I'll shut up and get out of the way.
So part of the reason why we did we decided to do this selection tonight was because it blends something that's currently going on with something that's extremely famous and has a bunch of history to it.
So I just spent a whole bunch of time chatting about the history of it.
And the simple and maybe like, you know, Malway to talk about it is that in our search of history, we started getting in contact with some of these original Northern Lights crew people and hearing their story.
And as part of that, we got we got some seats. Matt got some seats. And then Matt and and Caleb here decided to collaborate on it.
And and Caleb donated some space and some time and some energy.
And they did a bunch of stuff, both growing out phenos, looking within the line, making hybrids and all that. And so I was I was involved as much as listening to them talk about it.
So I'll shut up and turn it over to them because they are about to offer up some seeds of what they have going on.
And it might be, you know, some of the first real NL to come on the market in a while.
So Matt and Caleb, why don't you chat about what you found and what you saw and what interested you and da da da da da.
Well, first things first, you know, you know, when I posted up on IG, you know, there's there's a few people who are like, you know, what did what did Matt have to do with any of this?
You know, and I wouldn't even be growing these seeds if Matt had, you know, had all that dialogue with, you know, Mystery Man.
And, you know, he's the one who, you know, put all that together. He's the one who sourced these seeds, essentially.
So I wouldn't be growing nothing without Matt, you know, making that first step.
So, yeah, maybe maybe I'll throw in one more thing.
So everyone knows when, you know, breeders like us get together, it's super common for some breeding to be a collaborative process.
Right, right. This guy's got some seeds, you know, they both have an idea.
This other person has some room that they're willing to put towards the idea or a greenhouse or some indoor space.
They come up with a plan and you breed together. Right. And people might not hear about it.
JJ of the transaction. But but but everybody, everybody, you know, lots, lots of friends who are breeders kind of collaborate on little things like that all the time.
It's super common, just so people just so people know. So, you know, you know, Matt had the seeds, you know, CSI had the space and skill and skill and, you know, and ability.
We all had the interest in the history behind it and really wanted to see what was in there.
And so it you know, the project happened. Right.
And, you know, some people know, some people don't that the very first, you know, clone I ever grew came from my dad.
And that was Northern Lights back in 1994. You know, so it's about that one, dude.
I mean, you know, I remember. I mean, I rocked it on and off until about 2002 when I lost it.
And it was a coal plant, super frosty, decent density, you know, not not like rock hard Girl Scout cookies or anything.
I describe the nose, but I'm absolutely horrible at describing, you know, the smells.
So when people ask, I'm like, it smells good. I don't know.
That's not my forte. I I'm more of a visual, you know, oh, it looks like this, you know, similar to this and the looks department, blah, blah, blah.
You know, other than, you know, it smells great or whatever, whatever.
I'm not the dude for for the sniffer. Yeah.
But yeah. Yeah. I mean, when you lost it, was it something you kept looking for?
Like when you when you pick up clothes? Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah.
No, it was one of the things that, you know, family and friends, you know, all had it.
And then, you know, I lost it and I went looking and nobody had it.
Everybody lost it. You know, that's how it goes. Yeah.
But people are asking if it purpled. No, no, no, no.
Not the one I got from my dad. I don't I don't really recall it even remotely having any type of purple to it at all.
Yeah. And these these, you know, NL5 seeds that, you know, I just ran, there is very, very little, if any, you know, actual purple to any of them.
So, you know, but then again, sometimes when you're making seed, you know, the purple traits kind of kind of tend to take a backseat.
Yeah. A lot of purple things will be halfway green, you know, or all the way green, you know, when they're making seeds.
So, I mean, Mendo Purple does that, you know, where it's, you know, more green than purple, even under cool temperatures and everything when it's full of seeds.
Yeah. You know, so. But I think the plants have different processes when they're impregnated versus not.
Right. Right. You know, they do. They do very different things. Their goal is different at the time.
And I didn't even think about this, but I'm feeding seeded out plants, you know, nitrogen, fuck, all the way through.
Yeah. I'm not trying to cut off their nitro source, you know, early like I would a flower. So.
Yeah. The goal is healthy, mature seeds, not attractive flower.
Exactly.
Flower is just the carrier for the seed. So it's very different. It's a very different feeding regimen to get where you want to go.
Yeah. Which is why when you have a failed run and a bunch of flower and no seed, smoke ain't the best.
Yeah.
Maybe I should mention something is that, you know, CSI has actually, you know, he has some pictures of some of these old gardens and stuff like that.
But unfortunately, since it was all prohibition back then, they were on Polaroids and you learn with Polaroids that they fade over time.
Mm hmm.
You know, so they become the colors start to become washed out. The edges start to become less distinct.
So, you know, he cataloged some of it and, you know, you can you can get a general idea, but it's not the sharpest of picks.
Right. I have thousands of these Polaroids, you know, for, you know, the better part of a decade.
And now. Now, there are not much to look at.
Yeah, that's a bummer, dude. That's such a bummer.
Right. Right. It's just something you didn't know at the time.
Mm hmm.
Who knew that over 15, 20, 25 years, Polaroids would would fade.
Right. A regular picture developed at a, you know, you know, old school style will stay good for a long time.
Right. Polaroids don't, you know, I should have scanned them all while I had the chance.
Yeah. I mean, you know, we all should have done things differently when we were younger.
You know, that's the common theme.
Right. Right. Your camera's slowly but surely burning out, bro.
Well, you know, so the best thing is, is I was having I was having a conversation with with our buddy Pip,
who is going to drop some seeds soon and he might come on here and chat with Matt and I, but he didn't really want to show his face.
So I'm definitely going to show him this CSI tech.
Yeah. Right here.
Because it's exactly what he's looking for.
This embodied voice coming out of coming out of the darkness.
Isn't that how they always used to do?
Yeah. Right. This is Barry. 60 minutes in the 90s.
You know, I just need the voice tech.
You need that voice tech.
Yeah. Yeah. Tell us what you saw, man.
Tell it. Tell us what you saw in that room.
OK, so the the seeds that right and I have available are basically an open pollination from 47 plants, 27 females, 20 males, just open pollinated.
And, you know, there was there was definitely good, bad and the ugly in there.
There was one plant that was near identical to the Northern Light.
I grew, you know, from 94 on from my dad smelled like it looked extremely similar to it.
You know, all of that. And, you know, I had one of my good old old buddies from, you know, from that area, you know.
You know, check checking things out with me as it was progressing.
And he was like, yeah, that's that's just like the plant we we used to rock, you know, 25 years ago.
So that's why that's definitely a good sign.
There was a lot of variety in there. One of my favorites, of course, was this one that was super frosty, kind of a popcorn nugget thing.
Really good stretch. And it was kind of bubble gummy.
That's how I describe it. But I don't know, maybe other people would, you know, just describe the smell different.
But it was really nice. And we're definitely saving that one.
And then there was one that was I just have it written down as stinky as fuck.
But it's it had like 10 different smells, you know, top, middle, bottom.
And I can't describe that kind of stuff. But, you know, there's there's guys with noses who are like, oh, yeah, that's blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, you know, and list 20 different smells on something.
But all I know is it smelled amazing, too. Yeah. And that one that one's definitely a keeper.
And then there are some other ones that, you know, ranged, you know, this way and that way.
And, you know, my my end up being keepers might not definitely going to give them a couple few runs to decide on which ones are going to kind of make the cut for future projects, you know.
So that's what I'm stoked about is that we get to see them as clones, not just seed seed moms, you know, but as clones and clones of every single it's it's pretty expensive.
And it was a it was a cool it was cool. And I know, you know, he he he credits me with getting the seats and stuff.
But it was it was really cool to be able to to look inside. CSI's mindset as he did the selections, what he was looking for, how he went about it, how many clones he was keeping of each.
I learned a lot. I learned a lot from dude during this. So he put in the work. No matter what he says, he put in the fucking work on this stuff.
Right. Maybe maybe I should add something in where Caleb and I chat a bunch about like, you know, Fino's he's found in seed lines before that didn't survive.
Like, you know, the backup clone didn't survive and he lost it. And he's like, well, you know, I got X amount of these seeds. I can find it again.
So maybe, you know, how excited were you to find something that was pretty close to the spitting image of your lost plant?
I was stoked on it. But, you know, I was honestly more excited with some of these other ones that, you know, because, you know, back in 94, you're the reality is, you know, it's just a traded clone.
You have no idea, you know, where it came from, how many speeds it got selected from, you know, anything about it, you know, and that's the thing with traded clones is, you know, it might be selected from one or four and or 100, you know, I just like, you know, having the opportunity to actually select from better than one.
Yeah, for sure. I think too, that like, there are things for all of us now that we're all older, where some of the strains that you grow first, and you build your first relationships with as a grower, right in your mind, because you're learning so much then, and this is your kind bud plant.
Right, right. You know, and they really stick with you those. And, you know, you think back, like, Oh, what could I have done with that plant when I actually had some, some knowledge? And when I had that plant, I was an idiot, you know, I was 19 or something. And I didn't know jack. And now I'm like, you know, what could I do if I had it now? Right, right. Yeah.
Yeah. I'm a little interested too. And I know this is an NL talk. But are you do you want to talk about any of the pinks and purfs stuff you're seeing too, since that's a big project you have going on right now?
We can touch on it just a little bit. Yeah, yeah. You know, had me amped. Yeah, I'm definitely gonna, you know, try to post up a little bit more on that soon.
Just because there's, there's some interesting stuff in there. And yeah, that one keeper I was telling you about, it smells better than 99% of weed I've come across. So that's wild. You know, definitely, it's not a purple pheno, pure green, you know, no purple traits to it whatsoever.
But man, the smell is just so overpowering. I think it could be a pass around and keep her as long as it's over 5% THC, of course. Yeah, for sure.
We should mention that some of the terpiest things tend to be lower THC. Right, right. There's a ratio there that's not fully understood. But a lot of times things that are extremely human perception terpy don't tend to be the most potent. There are things out there that have both. But a lot of them don't. So we'll see.
And have I told you much or anything about this? This pinks and purps plant?
I heard it through your conversation. You and Matt chatted about it. And he called me all excited. Yeah, because it's rare that you sound that excited. Yeah, something that you found. So he was never hear him overstate anything about anything. Dude, pops thousands of seeds. So when he tells me, dude, like, this is special.
I mean, I think I think homie told me something like he thinks it might be like the best vino he's found. Yeah. Which for someone like you to say, who pops literally like thousands of seeds over a number of years and searches through them. That's really something. Oh, yeah. You know, and it really is.
I like to give to give credit to you know, what what plants, you know, kind of produce these kind of things. Yeah. And this particular plant, you know, it has Mendo purple in its background, but there's no purple traits to this plant at all. But Mendo purple has this strong mango trait that pops up in the ones. And this thing is that mango times 100, you know.
It's just the strongest mango I've ever smelled. Wow. You know, as you know, and a bunch more fruit, too. But, you know, I know it gets that mango, you know, at least, you know, a portion of it from the Mendo purps. So, you know, could be cool as long as I don't lose the clone.
Ganja boners. Yeah. I mean, one of the things that the Mendo piece certainly has is it's got pretty wide genetic diversity. So there's a lot of turps in there. Right. You know, and so then you throw it on something else that's also turpy and maybe wide and you can get these unusual things that have a potential to pop up. Right. I mean, that's kind of like people should know this, too. And maybe I should say it right now, where it's like if you cross something to like that, you know, to the Mendo piece.
But I don't know, to deep chunk, you're going to get a lot of deep chunk. And it's going to be really consistent, you know, and there's certain things you throw certain things on cookies and it looks very cookie. Right. And so people get frustrated when you cross two very wide things because you can get a bunch of junk and you can get a bunch of this and that. And it's all like unpredictable.
Oh, yeah. But then every once in a while, amongst all that stuff, there's this gem because it's so wide and unpredictable. And you're like, oh, whoa. What is that thing? Right. Right. Sometimes the frustration and the effort pays off because a really wide base of things to look through.
And maybe I should say this, too, is when, you know, when Caleb was referencing when he did the open pollination, that there was some gems, some mids, some junk. That's 90s weed. If you have a wide genetic base, you're going to get amazing midsy junk. They're all in combo.
And also on that pinks and purps one, you know, I always forget this, but I grew up when I made those and found that one, I was growing out 180 of those things. So there was only one like it out of 180.
Yeah. I wonder how it's going to breed because it was such an outlier.
Right.
Were there other phenos that were more consistent and like pop it up more often?
Oh, yeah. The purple ones were predominant. To find an actual green one in this hybrid was actually the rarity. Most everything was some form of light pink or lavender all the way through purple to almost black.
Yeah.
But yeah, the green ones were rare. And I probably kept out of the 180, I probably kept about 20 or so of the darker purple ones and just the real terpier ones. But I don't think I have any other green ones out of all the purples and the blacks.
That's wild, man.
Yeah.
That it was so consistently that and then this one pops up.
Right.
And so maybe I should throw this out there just real quick before we totally lose the thread on it is on some of these ones that you found that the one that's super frosty and smells to you like bubble gum and the one that kind of reminds you strongly of your dad's NL and such.
You're probably planning on doing some more breeding with those select females, correct?
Oh yeah, I'm already working on that too. So the first round of course was the open pollination. And now I have a room that's a couple few weeks into flower. And that's all the keeper females and my keeper male, my favorite male out of the whole bunch, which is, I don't know, it's like almost a milk chocolatey smelling male.
And he's super pungent and he almost looks like a bigger version of purple indica.
Yeah, that's cool.
That's a throwback from the same Washington areas these seeds came from. So there's something to that. And like I've told Matt, I'm not sure if I told you not so, but when the norm lights I used to have, occasionally I'd throw a late nanner or whatever, whatever.
And I grew out a bunch of S1 seeds. Well, I gave some of these S1s to my buddy, clones of the S1s anyway. And he accidentally crossed it to train wreck.
And when that stuff was grown out, it had that same chocolatiness that I'm smelling in this thing, when grown outdoors. So I don't know if it's just coincidence or what, but it could just be same, same, similar genetics.
The power of accidents.
Mm-hmm.
The power of accidents. So maybe I should throw this in there too. So if with the seeds that Matt and Caleb are offering up, this open pollination, what that's going to give you is, you know, that's going to give you your own ability to hunt through the line.
And it's going to be very wide, you know, but you could find gems just like he found. You could absolutely perhaps find, you wouldn't know that, look, you know, there could be bubblegum smelling ones. There could be this ones. There could be, there's a reasonably good chance that somewhere in there, those phenos pop up again.
And then give them X amount of months to do some more breeding. And we'll get the chance to see if some of these selected females breed true for the traits that he liked. Because those will be on offer too. So that's kind of like, for people that don't know, that's kind of like when you get old seeds or seeds that you want to preserve, one of the best things to do to keep the genetic diversity of the line is just to open pollinate everything.
Right? And then, you know, you can set aside, you know, some seeds from selected phenos and you can keep certain phenos and start breeding with them and intentionally and seeing where it takes you. So that's kind of like the, that's one of the processes of taking old seeds and trying to both preserve the line, but then take it in certain directions.
Mm hmm. Yep. Yep.
I mean, that's kind of how I, and you've done that a number of times with like various heirloom strains that you've come across, you know.
Always open pollinate, step one. And then, you know, you can do whatever you want past that, you know, directional this way, that way or the other, you know, and everybody else can too, as long as you know, you share the seed and all that, you know.
Yeah.
Mm hmm. Mm hmm.
Are there any other projects you're super stoked about past that? Like any fem projects coming up that you're pumped about?
Ooh, I got that patient zero coming.
Patient zero is on its way.
I don't know. That one's going to be interesting. I'm not sure how that one's going to turn out, but you know.
We'll see.
It could be cool.
Maybe you could explain for people, because you have so many names, because you're so prolific about things. What is patient zero?
Oh, patient zero is a, you know, basically it's the, just the Urkel across the Pakistani Chitral Kush.
And I grew out a hundred and something of those years ago. And my absolute favorite plant of that one was the one I named patient zero.
And, you know, it's, it's kind of, as long as you like a little terpenelein on your diet, it's pretty all right.
And so maybe I'll add that to it too, where it's like a lot of modern breeding today is one-offs where people hybridize something and then just toss it out to the public.
What he just described is what's known as like multi-stage breeding, where he made a cross, he grew out a bunch of phenos, he picked one that he liked, and now he's doing further work with that pheno itself.
Probably crossing it to itself and crossing it to other cuttings that he has in the stable that he thinks might blend well with it.
Right. One of my favorites I actually have flowering right now is the Mendo Purple number 54 selection from, you know, growing out that last hundred and something of those.
The Urkel 103, you know, S1. And then, you know, those, you know, I reversed the 103, slapped it on the Mendo. Man, those are uniform. I mean, as uniform as you can get really.
Yeah, that's cool.
Interestingly, the Mendo is extremely dominant on it.
Really?
Yeah, they're all, they look more like Mendo Purple plants. Then you can barely see any Urkel to them.
And both of those selections were made out of that room that I came and visited you and saw before you, the S1s of Urkel and the S1s of Mendo P?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yep. But yeah, yeah. Definitely interesting though. I don't know.
Yeah, I was excited too. Like about, I don't know if you want to talk about any of the Purple Punch stuff or if that's, you know what I mean? Like the findings in that that you're kind of saying that are unique.
Yeah, yeah. We've talked and the most surprising thing about breeding with Purple Punch is how fucking stable it is. I mean.
Actually, right?
When you're working with, you know, it doesn't matter what, you know, OGs, Deetzels, Chemdogs, Purple Scouts, you know, and then all the popular stuff based off all those.
Yeah.
You're going to find a nice portion of, you know, hermaphrodism, you know, more so if, you know, your environment's not, you know, perfect. But, you know, even if you have a perfect environment, there's always going to be a percentage of those.
Yeah.
But the Purple Punches have almost the lowest levels of hermaphrodism I've seen in any hybrids. So.
I mean, that's useful. That's something people look for. And I think like the fact that it popped up in an OG GDP was kind of shocking, you know?
Yeah. And, you know, I wasn't a huge fan of Purple Punch. I didn't even, you know, start growing it until a couple of years ago.
Yeah.
I kind of ignored it and was like, I got plenty of my own Urkel hybrids. I don't need another one.
Yeah.
You know, it has traits that it puts forward and you really can't argue with it, you know?
Yeah. I was the same way. You know, we both just kind of dodged hype for a while with like the fucking the Gorilla Glue and that and then end up at the end. Fuck, that shit's kind of good, man.
Right.
Last one to the party.
That's an interesting aspect that people maybe should hear about is sometimes you can have an amazing cut that checks a bunch of boxes and it reads like shit.
Right.
And it's all over the place. It throws a bunch of junk and the quality inherent in the cut itself doesn't seem to translate to its children very well.
And then other times you can take something like Purple Punch that they're just talking about that has a lot of nice traits but kind of lacks high or whatever else and you don't think that much of it.
And then you cross it to things and its children come out incredibly amazing with a bunch of traits that you like.
Right.
So sometimes a breeding parent can actually be kind of a crappy, crappy plant in some ways.
Like Caleb likes a lot of the S1s of my Mendo P quite a bit more than the Mama.
Oh yeah.
You know, the Mama is amazing for breeding but as an actual plant itself there's some aspects to it that are unpredictable and it's low THC.
Right.
But some of its children and some of the things that it throws when you breed and sometimes you might take something like Purple Punch that people make fun of and you breed with it and you're like, wow, this thing is amazing.
It throws all these traits consistently that are useful.
Right.
I mean like you could talk for a minute about how stable that bubblegum cut you have is.
And why you use it in so many different things because it throws like rot, you know, it doesn't rot very easily.
It's got incredible structure.
It densens things up.
Right.
Right.
Well, I don't know about, it's really not the densest cut out there but it's definitely as rot resistant as you can get a plant.
On my worst year ever outdoors I think I was aiming for like 700 pounds or something.
And then we had six inches of rain the last week of September, you know, first week of October and I lost 50 to 60% of that garden to mold.
And the only thing that came through that garden with probably less than 1% rot ratio was that bubblegum cut.
That's winning.
You know.
So, you know, tons of people are like, you know, what's your best, you know, mold resistant, you know, blah, blah, blah.
Well, right there, you know.
So.
That outdoor queen.
Yeah, so sometimes those traits, like they were just talking about like, you know, Caleb does an enormous amount of breeding.
So for him to say that the purple punch is some of the most non-intersects stable thing he's ever worked with is saying something.
You know, when he says that like this plant is almost immune to mold and it's the most mold resistant plant I've ever seen.
And it passes that trait to some progeny.
That's useful information.
Right.
I see a lot of people commenting on the purple punch strength and like when.
Breeding has changed from where it was maybe 10 years ago on what we would select for potency wise, what we wouldn't use, what we would use certain one of us, you know.
Purple punch.
All I'd ever heard about was how weak it was.
So I just never I never got into it.
However.
It is a very extract centric community now and with extracts, pretty much everything's fucking strong.
So a lot of things are more based now where people are checking out what kind of turps are being passed, how they breed.
And yeah, I mean, some people won't want to won't want to fuck with anything that doesn't lay them out.
Me, I like all kinds of ranges of different highs and I don't like being laid out.
So for me, purple punch is fucking perfect.
I guess.
Yeah.
And, you know, weed weed affects humans in different ways.
Some of my favorite strains to smoke on a regular basis.
The other two guys that were, you know, they don't like it that much on a big.
They agree.
It's a super quality cut, but it's not something with their body chemistry that really adapts all that well.
Yeah.
I have friends that only like incredibly potent indica because they want to be hammered down and a sativa makes them crawl up the wall.
Yeah.
I have other friends that smoke a sativa and they relax.
Right.
That would be me.
So, yeah.
So cannabis, cannabis and individual strains don't think that the way it affects you is the way it affects everyone.
There's a range there.
Yeah.
That's why I like keeping so many different, you know, cultivars because, you know, I like a whole spectrum of different things.
And I know other people, too, you know, like different things.
So you can't always breed for yourself.
Definitely not.
Does the purple punch reverse?
Yeah.
Yeah.
It reverses fine.
Interesting.
It reverses easily, but won't ever throw intersex traits.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's kind of odd in itself.
Right.
The S1 I got growing now, I don't think I found a single ball or nanner on any of them.
Which is almost unheard of.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
You're usually going to get at least 10 to 20 percent, you know, and I say 10 to 20 percent and that could just be one ball down low or one, you know, late nanner or something.
But there's always going to be like 10 to 20 percent.
Yeah.
And then there's certain things that perm, but won't reverse.
Right.
Right.
You know, I mean, we've talked before about we're not going to get into it too much, but, you know, they, you know, the old sour cuts are famous for not reversing.
Oh, yeah.
Or getting a handful of seed, but they're also famous for the wrong conditions and they throw nanners that can create seed in your room for flower production.
Yeah, it's really easy to grow it, boofy.
I had some sour, some sour Ds in a fully seeded out room just recently and, you know, completely full of seed.
And about week four, it just starts balling up, just hanging all kinds of sour diesel balls, even though it's fully seeded.
So the whole room was completely seeded.
So it didn't have any risk of pollinating anything.
But, you know, it still felt the need to, you know, throw out just a ton of balls.
Like, what are you doing with those?
You know, I didn't see any pollen off of them, but, you know, yeah.
Yeah, I mean, the, you know, the the the what I consider to be the original, but, you know, the one I got, the chem D cut is pretty famous for throwing a bunch of nanners at week three, four.
But they're sterile.
You know, they don't really they don't really, you know, they don't they don't really make seed.
Yeah. And that chem D or just chem Ds in general, it seems.
Yeah, they they throw bananas like they're going out of style.
Yeah.
And it's a trait that goes there.
And so I've had any number of friends or helpers or whatever on a light depth greenhouse come to me panicked because half the greenhouse has bananas popping out all over.
And I'm like, oh, calm down, calm down.
It's it's the D. We're going to be fine, you know, and we're fine.
You know, you can find a bean.
Yeah. But, you know, you do that with cherry pie or something and you have beans everywhere.
Right.
So certain things, certain things are different, different risky.
You know, there's different levels of risk.
Yeah. Yeah.
So, I mean, maybe we should maybe we should chat about this.
Maybe we should reel it back in for a second.
Part of the reason why we did this NL5 chat, both starting in the 80s and going through some of the history and then bringing Caleb on was to talk about the project that that him and Matt have going.
And they just dropped the seeds, I believe.
Yes.
Or we're about to or just did.
No, they're dropped.
Caleb's site is humble CSI dot com.
Correct, Caleb?
Yeah.
You can buy them on there or I'll write seed code dot com.
Yeah.
Yeah. And so it's a it's a it's a riot and and Caleb collab.
And it's a big open pollination of genetics from one of the people that was intimately involved in the old NL crew.
So the provenance is excellent as far as like who it comes from.
And, you know, but then on top of that, too, the proof is in the pudding.
So, you know, it it's a chance for people to maybe hunt around if you have if you're a little adventurous and look through something old and something famous, you know, and, you know, Caleb found a few things in it that he was super excited about.
And so hopefully you guys will, too.
And one of the ways that we're going to make sure that not everything is Skittles, OG, cookie, Cushman's, whatever, is by people taking effort and reviving some of these old things and making fresh batches of batches of seed that are more viable and then getting them into people's hands.
So the gene pool stays wider.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So not only is it a cool old project to something that's extremely famous and there's potential in it, but you can better believe that most modern breeding, with a few exceptions, is the same 30 or 40 cuts blended in a bunch of different ways over the last 10 years.
And this harkens back to a much older time.
So there's a possibility there that when you outcross things to something that aren't like each other, if you take these NL fives and you start throwing it on different stuff you have, you might get some unusual stuff you're not expecting.
That's good.
Right.
You know, Britain's fucking with me.
Sorry, guys.
No, it's like because that's because that's the thing is a lot of breeders say that, like, sometimes, you know, crossing two very distinct things together is where you really get quality.
Yeah.
You know, and you're certainly introducing something older in the gene pool that was very common 20, 30 years ago, but now is many generations interbred.
And so by these guys doing this project where it's kind of getting thrown out there again, where it can get bred into a lot of modern stuff and people get to see what happens.
So, you know, you'll get more opportunities to see what CSI is doing with the work in future breeding projects that seem like they're already engaged.
And hopefully people are going to buy a bunch of this stuff and start posting and trying them out themselves.
And it's one of the ways you can keep cannabis history alive.
Right. And making the merge with the stuff.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You know, mixing it with modern things and seeing what happens.
Right. Right.
What do you guys think would be the best, you know, available plant, line, whatever out there to cross to the NL5s?
You know?
Personally, I want to see the Hogs Breath NL5. I think that would be cool if we could track that down and do that again.
It's been out of my hands for a while, but I think that would be interesting just because of the terbs.
Mm-hmm.
How about you, Notso?
You know, I actually think that it might cross well with something like the Dogshit.
Mm-hmm. Okay. Okay.
You know?
Kind of a potentially almost a Batcross?
Potentially almost. I mean, a Batcross has to use technically the same cut to go back to, but maybe something that is very NL.
Because one thing I'll say about that Dogshit grown indoor is, boy, does it look like 90s weed.
Mm-hmm.
Like lime green with bright orange hairs, and it just has that like NL type of like look.
I was going to say hydro, but Caleb is purely organic, so I don't want to insult him.
But just that like big sack of hydro NL that you would get, you know, that's just super frosty and stuff like that.
And so, you know, but it might give it some stretch and some vigor, and it might kind of like, and that's kind of like what I like.
One of the things that I get interested about is crossing two different things that you think have similar parentage behind them.
Mm-hmm.
And then you see if you get some throwbacks because both parents have it.
Yeah. I do have the Dogshit in my latest round.
So, you know, but it's getting across to that chocolatey NL5 male.
And honestly, I think there were better, there were males that kind of looked more similar to Dogshit.
But I, you know, I didn't use them personally for this round because I liked that, you know, particular, you know, chocolatey one.
And if I was going to throw out one more recommendation and combine the old with the new, one of Neville's most classic combinations was NL5 and Skunk.
And I kind of view the Diesel family as what we have is surviving modern Skunk.
Not that there's not cheese and a couple other things like that, but I kind of view like Sours as American Skunk.
Right.
Or very, very Skunkish.
So it would be kind of cool to see like what we have now is Skunk and what we have now is NL blended back together.
Right.
Because that was one of the most classic best selling and they combined super well.
Yeah.
I definitely have cheese in there too.
So, you know, you know, at least Skunk 1.
Are you talking Skunk 1 or Skunk?
I mean, that's, cheese is fine.
That's obviously pure Skunk 1.
That's really old.
I was just thinking of certain diesels just because I consider certain diesels modern.
That to me, even though it doesn't have the name, I consider a diesel to be like a Skunkoid type plant.
Right.
It's tall, it's rangy, you know, it's got that kind of Skunk type growth to it.
It's got these very, I basically think of like gas and diesel as it's not like roadkill, but it is on that Skunk spectrum.
It's like different angles of the same turps.
Yeah.
You know, it's kind of how I see it.
So, you know, but yeah.
And then the other thing too is that, you know, you cross it to things you hope are going to cross well.
And then you cross it to some things that are just random.
And sometimes those random ones end up being the best ones because you really don't know and you really don't know what genes are going to pop.
Right.
Right.
And you really don't know what recessives are in there.
True.
True.
Right.
Like, so to take it back to humans, unless both parents have the gene, you can't have kids with blue eyes or green eyes.
You know, you if one parent has the recessive, the other parent has the dominant, it won't combine.
Right.
Blonde hair is the same way.
Both parents have to have the blonde hair gene or the red hair gene or it won't pop.
And so sometimes if you take two things that you think might have similar genes, you might get some recessives that pop and all of a sudden something unusual comes out.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So.
Yeah.
Well, I promise to not hold Caleb too long.
I know he's got some shit to do tonight, too.
So I'm thankful for you coming and talking about the Northern Lights.
I know everybody's super stoked to be able to hear about it firsthand.
But yeah.
Is there anything else you want to talk about before we all bounce?
I think I'm good.
I got to go wrangle a five year old beast.
Beast.
Yeah.
You know, Friday night isn't the easiest night for you.
So we super appreciate you coming on and shooting the shit and all that, you know.
And, you know, I briefly saw your face in the shadows there for a minute before the pitch black kicked in.
But yeah, you know, that's that's kind of it.
We wanted to chat about NL.
We wanted to chat about the history.
We wanted to clear up some misconceptions and we wanted people to hear about some of the specifics of what was available, how it was made, what you what we saw in it and let people go from there.
So, as always, everyone, thank you for giving us part of your Friday night.
You know, where do you where where can people find your seats again?
Humboldt CSI dot com.
There you go.
Yeah.
Humboldt CSI dot com.
We'll grab the NL five, please.
Go experience it.
Make sure you let them know about yours, too.
Yeah, I got it, too.
But but, you know, support the man.
Yeah.
So, you know, both both both guys have it.
You can get them both off each of their individual websites.
They were communicating a bunch during the during the grow.
They were talking about what he was seeing, sharing pictures and just, you know, and all that.
And so, you know, it's how a lot of it's a lot of passion projects get made today is with people that have similar interests, collaborating and making it work.
So support it if you can, if you know, it'd be great.
And it would spread out some old genetics and it would keep them alive.
And you could do your little part to make sure that the gene pool stays wider and hopefully find some fire.
Yeah.
No, no.
You know, everybody enjoy their Friday night.
As always, there's a million questions we didn't get to.
But you can always hit us up on our discord.
Matt, we're on our Patreon.
Yeah.
Matt and I chat up there a whole bunch.
We're pretty responsive to questions and all that.
And so, you know, every every Friday night, we'll try to bring you something new and pertinent and interesting and bring on various friends we have and all that.
And kind of just push the history and the info forward.
And at the very least, you can see not so naked.
All right. Thanks, everyone.
Enjoy, everyone.
You have a great night.
Good night.
Cheers.
Oh.
