Let's see
Okay, here we go back in action, all right, how's everyone doing?
Welcome to live feed. I finally got Instagram and YouTube up
It sucks because I have to use two whole different things and keep switching back and forth
Can you guys hear any sound
Any sound
Connection good before I start jumping into this like last time
Any of you guys can give me some feedback. Yep
Perfect. Thank you. Thank you guys
Party is on a party wolf. I only know about the DC muscle. I don't know about no party wolf
If you google that google at your own risk and don't do it at work
See
Good now, that's all that matters. All right. Welcome everyone today. I was gonna talk about
some
Some breeders that you should check out, you know
a lot of people spend a lot of time asking about fucking dumbasses and people that like
Really haven't earned their place in the community not by earning
I mean just by being good people knowing what they're talking about
Able to fucking have a decent conversation about breeding, you know, what what?
We all kind of hope for
No, no, you spend a lot of time talking about that shit. So today I wanted to spend time talking about people who deserve it
So, yeah, I didn't get my little black book here first off I want to start off with some housekeeping so
Be sure to join our patreon some of you have some of you haven't on our patreon. We have our discord
That's the main part of the patreon that most people utilize but you also get discounts
You get a 10% discount on my store. And if you're also part of
speakeasies
Patreon you get 20% at both stores. So it stacks up and adds up really cool
So you don't just get my shit. You also get other people who are who are the homies on there
See right now I'm posting a lot of the Northern Lights progress
The progress working with Northern Lights are about foot tall right now
Everything's gonna be cloned and flipped pretty soon. It's it's some of the most beautiful broad leaf stuff
I've ever seen in the nl5 and Hawaiian lights not seen a lot of narrow leaf anything in any of that
sometimes
But when there are fights, you know, I watch them and sometimes if you're if you're cool
Maybe you could watch them with me if you're a part of our patreon discord. It really really makes it work. So and
Yeah, we have we have special events and movies and all kinds of stuff like that
We haven't been doing them lately, but we're gonna start doing them
And also I do some or I'm going to start doing some breathing posts
Just little lectures written lectures stuff. You can take back to your homies and sound super smart
And of course, I'm just regurgitating it because I'm not smart at all. So
Sound is a mess is the sound of mess for everyone
Is the sound of mess
That's a blooper scope for me wondering how many before I hit the skunky Fito, that's not how it really works
In any kind of genetic equation it could be the first one it could be the last
constantly lag
That's not good you guys good there sound good over on Instagram. Let me see
Yeah, I don't have any different thing I can switch to for a connection
All right crashing the stream Jesus Christ
One second I got to sign out the
YouTube
Sounds like a fan or oh, it's probably the goddamn
Computer, but yeah over on YouTube. I gotta sign it out. Hold on
Mm-hmm. How do we know how to sign it out in stream?
Okay, hold on a second guys
Well, I can't even go grab the stuff that has my
Internet thing on it. So YouTube is just fuck for tonight. That's it for you. Well, we tried with YouTube
I
Can't even go grab the stuff that has my
Thing on it so YouTube is just fuck for tonight. That's it for you. Well, we tried with YouTube
People can come back over here if they want
All right
Yeah, YouTube YouTube epically failed
Yeah, sometimes the internet connection really fucking sucked and it's been really bad on my computer, so I guess I just fuck for YouTube
What else we got is it doing okay on here so far or is it choppy
I know last time the sound cut out and that was even worse
Yeah, it's always some bullshit. I tried to do it beforehand, but YouTube doesn't really let you not go live and just test it out
Anyway, so we're gonna be talking about breeders that you should like right people that you should go support
And this this is more more important than ever. It's not on it's not on YouTube anymore
So anybody that that asked about YouTube
Can you guys keep them on it and help me out with that?
So that I don't have to keep going saying it's not on YouTube anymore
Yeah
Hopefully people would jump on over here from YouTube sucks YouTube such a better platform
But this computer has been not running so smooth with its
internet connection
anyway, so
It's more important than ever now to support
The people that matter because you have to use your money like swords
Yeah, these shirts are real nice nice and comfy. It's one of my favorites. You have to use your money like swords. That's it
There's a lot of bad folk in this industry. And right now that pie has gotten very very very
teensy
Because of corporate assholes and corporate bucks. Really it is people want cheaper weed that aren't growers
Gypsy I'm gonna slap you
Fucker
Yeah, so
But with your dollars exactly the problem is the problem is prop 64 passed. We all knew we all knew that was gonna happen and
It was only a matter of time till the market crashed when it crashed
They crashed hard not just for for seeds, but for weed in general
And I think now that the unemployment has stopped running in in
California and nationwide as far as like the extra payments that people are getting during kovat
No one's spending any money
So if you do not want to see your favorite mom-and-pop shops sink, you have to support these guys all of them
I mean some of these people I'm not even necessarily friends with
but
There there's still the the people that help build this industry
Yeah, don't worry about that shit in my head. Don't you worry about that fucking shit
In my hand, I didn't have nothing in my hand. Anyway, so of course, I'm gonna start with with a lot of the
Homies, you know CSI CSI Humboldt make some of the best shit on earth
One of the first guys to really do heavy heavy feminizing in the US along with OG rascal
You got archive
707 seed bank
My buddy high and lonesome
You got founding fathers genetics, which is with CSI's one of his best friends in a friend of mine tie guard
Everybody loves Jean, right?
Bitter I can I can I can vouch for him because because I know that dude I know that dudes heart
Working man's been doing great
CB's been doing great with the the diesel stuff
Bodhi
Bodhi
Bodhi has saved my career more times than I can count and that's that's just thought it's true
He's when I when I've been down and out when I've had a whole whole
Mother rooms just fucked he was the one who really came and swung in both times
Elite cannabis Matt from elite cannabis has done some amazing work. He rarely sells it. Hopefully he will be selling it soon
hopefully hopefully hopefully
I'd like to see that we got Thunder fudge. He's a homie and he's always done cool shit
Melting pot. I saw him come in here. He's been doing some great stuff
Radical genetics, they don't get talked about a lot. They've been around a long long time
Phenomenal work, especially with CBD stuff
Skunk VA skunk VA is the homie. He's a fucking really really really cool dude. Most people know him because the chem 91 cut
His mentor was where the Virginia super skunk came from that is in sour
Green Bodhi, I don't know really well, so I can't comment on that one. I
Do know a lot of people that that I'm listing are not friends with him
Let's see
Swamp boys, I can't forget the swamp boys. I mean just two classic dudes that have been in it forever
I saw top dog got his account taken down. So try to give him a follow on top dog genetics
It's it's unreal how many how many people are just ratting each other's accounts out just because there's that's how tight the competition is and
I'm concerned. It'll be much worse than that over the next coming few months
But that that is what it is. Yeah freeborn. Like I said jeans up there bloom bloom Zico with Harry Palms and
The homie pip he has his stuff over on
Speakeasy as well. So check out his stuff. I know that they have some neon flamingo purple midnight and shock collar which are all KBG
Seeds so go check those out. But if you any of you guys have any questions about oh, you know what?
rich
Rich that made dog walker. Oh gee the other dog walker
Amazing dude heroes of the farm as well
Yeah of clear booty who's clear booty is there a clear booty is there a red booty
Doc D's great crock and family could suck a dick but dot needs a good one, too
Doc D's a great one any of the people I mentioned if you if you have any questions about him one I thank you
I always a comrades, but yeah CBF has made amazing shit. I owe a lot of my career to him same as organ kid a
A lot of a lot of what I've been able to do has been because of guys like that, you know
it
They don't get enough shine. They don't
Already already talked about crybaby
Yeah
Any questions on any of that any questions
Dynasty yeah, I mentioned relics but dynasty is a part of relic relic is dynasty
I'm really pissed off at this
This fucking shit just shit out. Yeah, Seattle chronic's great dude. Great. Great, dude
He's tried to be super friendly and helpful to
Big timers. Yeah, everyone you just named Arctic or a bunch of cunts, but that's okay. I
Get along with Brandon from third gen. I mean the clown she things always gonna be there. That was funny
But like yeah, I don't know
He's been cool to me
We already did archive. Okay. Can you tell us about the PBO G mail? What did it pass on reliably in the crosses?
How did you what it what did you like about how does it compare to the blue bonnet mail? So
When picking that mail what I wanted to do with with most banana ogs, which are gonna find is
It out crosses a lot of amazing banana type stuff and OG stuff
But it then shits out a lot of booth like a lot of skunk one type stuff
Blando type stuff that probably came from the Sega math that's 6040
So I wanted to improve that
aspect of the breeding with it and keep it more to higher resin production and
keeping the banana tones more
Dominant because you know, yeah. Yes YouTube is down. Yes
Where am I at? Sorry, it's hard to read and answer questions and do all this right now
But yeah, so so that was the difference in in just the platinum energy versus banana og
YouTube is down
YouTube is down
As far as the bonnet, I mean it's it's two different
It's two different
It's two different
It's two different
whole different projects like I don't just choose a male based on one set of characteristics
Jaws is a fucking
Puto don't you know what?
Anybody who
I'm gonna give you a pass UFO. I'm gonna give you a pass but don't put don't type fucking scammers in here
You're gonna get the boot guys
You know how that works?
People think if I don't say anything that I'm fucking vouching for it because people are stupid
So don't start putting fucking scammers in here or or you'll just be removed please don't I don't want to remove anyone
I you don't I don't just look for one set of structure or one look for a male I
I choose a male based on what I want to create and then I also choose its partners based on what I want to make
So I'm gonna get the male based on what I want to make
Choose its partners based on what I want to accomplish as well. That's how it should always be
It should always be that way with anyone making anything, right?
so the reason I did the banana was because I wanted to I
Love I loved a banana og growing up and I've made a lot of cool shit with this, especially the platinum banana og
My boy Hugo fuck yourself. That was the name that he really is
He handed me off that cut and it was called platinum banana when I got it
It wasn't my name for it, but
Yeah, I always had a love affair with it
Oregon kid was always super cool to me, too
So I thought it would be a cool project to just banana up everything and see where it went
I
didn't have all the plants in the room during the last platinum banana og BX one male thing and
We actually ended up doing a platinum banana og
BX 2 to the male so we kept back crossing to the male as opposed to back crossing to the female which isn't done very
Often but that was to see how we bred and he bred very consistent
There was a certain look that he had
I'm trying to think of where you can see that. Look. I know Denali put up pictures of
the
Platinum alien orange cookies somewhere and that has the distinct look almost all of those came out looking like what the male passes on
now with
the blue bonnet
My main intention was to find a male that would bring the blueberry turps
Not decrease resin production and not decrease potency
And as you guys as some of you know that have worked a blueberry a lot of grown a lot of blueberry
That's not something you see very much of you know, like blueberry doesn't tend to add potency
Blueberry itself isn't a super resinous plant when you compare it to modern-day lines
So it was very fortunate that the first male that I ended up using from the blue bonnet did all of that and then some
His structure you can kind of see has has a little bit of
He can pass on a little bit of foxtailing if if there's too much light or too much heat
But most of it is like a nipple type bud top and tons of resin production
It's it's mostly Afghani as opposed to what most people think of as blueberry sativa stuff blueberry sativa stuff. Hey, what's up Jax?
How you doing?
with the blueberry sativa stuff
So I actually thought most of this time that what I was looking for was gonna be in the blueberry sativa stuff
blue moonshine blue velvet
Moonshine rocket fuel all the other ones that we were popping at the time
But what I ended up finding was pretty amazing stuff in the Afghani in so
Yeah, and that was that was because the lone stars work. He gets all the credit for that shit
I'm still another good dude. Glad someone brought him up
Sub Rob, he's another badass
You don't get enough credit
Smoking some white by how you liking a Huey? How you liking it?
Alien sour apple that you've had in the ball. Yeah
Yeah
You wanted to hear me say what see trip and see what I miss
How many blue bonnet did you pop to find a male I popped the 10 pack that I got
Didn't think I'd find anything in that but during the blueberry hunt. We popped several hundred seeds
Several hundred seeds were popped of different blueberry lines flow
Blueberry, we had just gotten done with the rose flow selections right before that
God
Different lots of different blueberry like from different people different f-gens and all that. So yeah, it's it's wild
It was a wild lucky lucky lucky pick and the only reason I picked that male as opposed to the others was because he kept
Raising his hands up like even in veg as he was growing up
You know plants pray when they're happy this one just was his families would be like this almost 90 degrees just
Parallel to the stem and I'd be like, I said motherfucker raising his hands
I bet he's raising his hands for me
And that's that's really what I went with something as easy as that because in the end when you pick a male
unless you're unless you're
Used to a line and really really experienced with that specific line. It's all a shotgun method
You're never gonna know how a male truly breeds until he runs offspring so you have to start somewhere my somewhere was
There and you can see it in the offspring sometimes which is really cool
The purple striped stock. So I thought he would actually pass a lot more purple traits than he does
He can pass some purple traits, but it's not like a main trait, which is usually from the Oregon purple tie end of blueberry
Usually BX does differ from line to line it just depends
What generation did you BX? What are you talking about?
for which
Usually I only BX if I have a certain line that I really like and I want to use a male from that line and
I don't want to just reverse then I'll be X but it's not my it's not a
I've done it a lot, but it's not
It's not necessary all the time
Unless you're trying to get work a clone only line into male form
Like a perfect example would be Bubba a Bubba BX to use as a male would be a great breeding line or
Something else that's not available
In
Seed form, you know something like that. I don't know
Put that male and have to see some resin pop out. Yeah
Resin popping out of males is one of those things
It's it's real debatable on whether it's showing intersex traits by having a lot of resin or not
Still on the fence bring back face melt and clockwork orange, you know, we did face melt and that was really popular
Some jackass stole the name stuck it on his lines and marketed in high time
So I just never never thought to redo it. Are you familiar with heirloom varieties from Southern Appalachia Appalachia?
No, I'm not. I'm not from that area. And unless you're from that area
It's kind of hard to break into it, but that would be cool to know more about
I
Did a lot of clockwork orange work we kept that line going and and tried to keep it mostly in stock
But it was a little hard. It's hard to reverse
But I ended up passing it on and I think crybaby works with it now so
There's only so much I can do with it
it's kind of like an art piece like if you if you have a certain character you draw and
You get stuck in that character and it's hard to see outside that character
Sometimes it's best to pass it on to someone else to make something new
Mentioned that you like cherry pie. What do you like about it? When you grew it? Did you get actual cherry turps? No
How did the high hit you? Um
Cherry pie I got a lot of gas out of but I liked how he hit me
It gave me in a similar anti-anxiety high that I got from something like a blueberry
But with a little more potency a lot of people have complaints about cherry pie because of the intersex traits
I didn't have a lot of problems with that
But I don't like flood nitrogen and flour which I think is one of the main problems with that
Top three favorite blue bonnet crosses. That's a hard one
one's gonna be punchy bluester just because the turps were so next-level like a like like a
slurpee syrup types
If you were if you were vaping it you would actually taste blueberries with sugar and and all that in it
It's it's it's very exceptional in that way
Bubble berry was also an amazing breeder and amazingly uniform
for being a
Simple one-step hybrid. I don't wanna call an f1 because it was not a it was you know, not a true f1 but
a one-step hybrid it offered a lot of
Uniformity being that they were both somewhat Afghani basis a third goddamn
The blooper skunk is still up there because it's a great super skunk regular line
Not necessarily because it was great for letting the blue turps pass through but because I love super skunk so much
It seemed to be one of my favorites
Yeah, the resin og blue bonnet. The the cush crossed to the blue bonnet is is
Gnarly potent and it lets some of the berry come through which a lot of the ogs didn't necessarily
The Louie blue bonnet also let those come through. What's up, big red
Thought Bryn would be here to say hi, but she just walked out run the bubble bonnet again
Really want to dive into cherry. Okay. I love that cherry. Okay cut. I know CSI's using it and some of his stuff, too
That water pipes gonna be so loud it always is
Yeah, I can't wait to see what we do what what else we do with the the cherry a case stuff
We miss you to read
What's up straight box?
No, it's okay. Can you guys hear that? I think it's okay. Are you getting more headband phenos in that matchup?
Which one the banana headband, yeah, it's it's it's sticking mainly to og and headband styles like with the
56 day cut
Yeah, dude who was responsible for bringing the cherry a cake I think is what you're asking
I don't know man that cherry a cake cut. I first found in San Diego and
I had seen other cherry a cake cuts that weren't super resinous, but we're super purple
I know there was a cherry lick here cut didn't the boot use so he hates anybody calling anything cherry a cake
Even though his was the cherry liqueur cut
Even though his was the cherry liqueur cut. Um, I never never got to run his but it did make some amazing stuff in black russian
um
Um, but yeah first time I saw it was in san diego never saw it after I left san diego
and then it happened to come across in a
two year long trade that it took for this person to follow through and most of what he sent me was incorrect, but
Um, the one thing he did send correct was that?
Cherry a cake cut and he had a friend in san diego. So he probably got in san diego as well
What's up with the rainbow? I did never use it because he was still
uh, uh smellboat was still doing stuff with it, so I didn't
Jump on it. But yeah
And now I mean it's it's very much like a really nice ogkb type
So i've done a lot of those so, you know, it was his project and hopefully he'll bring it back
How many mails would you test before picking one for a project like blue bonnet?
What do you mean by test
We ran him out to see how he flowered out for his general structure before we used him
um
But as far as hitting a line first you hit everything with it
You see if it works you run the progeny and if it all sucks on to the next on to the next, you know
That's how it always works. Um, usually if if I don't find something I like in the first two mails, then i'm not gonna
I'm not gonna keep pursuing it because it's a lot of lost money in that case
Yeah, that's with a project like blue bonnet literally that was all luck
um
And all work from lone star it had very little to do with me or anything. I did special I can't take much credit for it
That was already a worked blue line from someone and rest in peace lone star
Um, you can still find some of lone star stuff as well from aka texas kid. I do believe he has some
um
I don't know who else is putting out
Yeah
That was ku
That was a koo line
Um, lone star was putting it out at the same time. I was putting out my right berry
so I didn't give it a chance back then because I
Was a shithead and I kind of thought like I had the best shit ever
I had the best blueberry ever so I don't need to see anybody else's blueberries, but you know, I could have uh
Done some magic shit just crossing right berry to it back then if they were both around at the same time
No, I have it faro I haven't at all
What you got what you got stray what you what you holding on
See what else I wanted to touch on too
Yeah, run them run them and use them
What size container do you typically use to pheno hunt?
Um look through for large numbers of seeds, you know
Usually if i'm looking through large numbers of seeds, I don't go over half gallon and I pop it
Bam like that. Well, fuck. Yes. Dre. Thank you. Thank you. What's your most flavorful available with a powerful effect now?
Powerful is subjective because there are certain things that like, um
Urkel for example will hit me super hard because of my brain chemistry
Whereas other people like think it's one of the weakest strains on earth, you know, um
That's subjective
See flavorful right now, uh, even the blue resin super flavorful. Um
Some of the um
Banana og stuff like the sour apple platinum banana og is really flavorful too. I know that that's still I think available
um
Banana tie was super flavorful. Um
Um
There's so much that I did in the blue bonnet stuff that i'd love to list like the the bubbleberry v2
Was super flavorful almost anything with the blue bonnet male was super flavorful
So if you have a specific like you want something gassy with berry the way you do it
Brindis, it was very flavorful skittles is good shit for flavor
um
Cherryberry cherryberry super flavorful and I think that's from some of the terpenelein in it that
Terpenelein makes everything more flavorful if you cross it out out cross it
Did you cross the bonnet with any of your strawberry stuff? I did not but hopefully in the near future
We can do some of that. We're pretty excited about that
You're going to be re-releasing
Any blue bonnet stuff?
Uh, I haven't needed to re-release much
Because I have all of it
And I mean there's some stuff that's sold out and some of those I plan on
Um, but we'll see we'll see
What freebies came with the pink and blue I don't know
I don't know
So I hit black triangle with two sky cuddler males also made a forest guy clearly handing out
I don't know who you are, but that's cool
Nice to meet you
Are you going to be okay, so I answered that one
Next big seed drop in project next big seed drop is going to be the um northern lights work
Northern lights works coming up and that's going to be open pollination of the hawaiian lights in the nl5. It's
all being documented
um
If you're part of the patreon, you'll be able to see that and uh follow csi humble. You can see some of his
um
Todd says trichrome. Oh, yes trichrome
um
When well this there
They still need to be cloned
And flipped so it's not we don't really rush it, you know, um
Not in a rush to get anything to market like that, even though probably with the seed market now
We should be rushing to do everything
But that's not how you make good shit
Also
And this is for real
Like everybody in the in our in our industry people making seeds whatnot
Pay really close attention to to your mental health during this time and that's coming from someone who has all you know
i'm a fucking
shit show when it comes to mental stuff, but
Everyone needs to be taking care of each other. Um
It's going to be tough times coming up
For all of us in the cannabis industry and and and all you with passion take care of each other
It's it's going to be very fucking scary and hard
um
We've all kind of waited for that ball to drop from
um
corporate shit
So it's going to take extra work extra dedication
To make it through this
uh, you know
Why do you think everything is going retro with the nl5? It was because at the time
Seattle greg sent seeds to me his son and todd
and
some people rushed to pop like five seats and
Do something special with that?
so
Yeah, it just happened to be the timing on when todd passed him out
Dog, man, what's up, brother? How's that? How's the uh, the toy world going? Is it is it is it crashing too?
Like most of the other other shit in the in the u.s
Yeah
Thanks for the kind words feral what's up jb
So last time I let you guys see some guitar stuff and because fucking i'm a man and men like show and tell them
Do that shit again?
Um show off some of my other pretty ones. You guys already saw the blueberry gibson
Or the the less paul traditional so I thought i'd show off a different one this time
I guess I don't need my fucking computer since we're not doing any of that shit right now, right? No youtube
I've seen the updated. Oh, yeah, the hawaiian lights are looking good along with the nl5
Hawaiian lights is the back cross. So nl5 is um, steve
Murphy-afghani times hawaiian, right? So the hawaiian lights
Is a back cross to the hawaiian in?
northern lights
Toys are going wacky resin supply chain is fuck. Yeah
Prices went way up though. Oh, that's good to know. I need to sell some of my shit then
So this is a very special model
I'm, i'm a big fan of purple
And this is a purple
Gibson less paul. This was only uh released in the robot form. But as you can see, I don't have the robot. Uh
on it anymore
I don't know
I thought about putting them on just for shits and gigs but the robot robot shit sucked which is this button right here
That's how you tuned it. It was supposed to auto tune and all this shit, but it really didn't do a great job of it
But yeah this one when I got it, it was on sale
Um on guitar center back in the day and i've always wanted a purple less paul
That was a gibson and I finally found it. Yeah purple's my favorite color, too
Yeah, the robo self tuners were kind of fucking whack. I didn't really love those ones
But this is one of my babies. This is my first gibson I ever owned
um, I have another one that i'm rebuilding before I can show it, but it's a uh,
What is that one? It was a less paul special
So it looks um a double cut less paul special so it looks more like a
Less paul jr. Kind of but it has
two humbuckers
So yeah
And then i'll show you my other baby. The other one was a special gift from a friend
No, no
My other was a special gift from a friend
I think it's not closing right stupid fucking cases
Skbs, I like my gibson cases better. Okay
You have a junior that robo tuners put grovers, yeah, these are grovers on this one. Um
Yeah, I want a real less paul jr. Eventually from the 50s or 60s, but you know, yeah not anytime soon
um
But this one is a real special one
So when I was given this guitar
I I had uh
I had I had stopped playing
I didn't really ever play at that time and a friend and I just gone through some
Emotional shit. So a friend wanted me to start playing guitar again and sent me
This beautiful american jazz master from the custom shop
It isn't mark custom shop, but this person worked the dirt farmer worked at the custom shop
at the time and um
Yeah, it's a beautiful beautiful jazz master with some beautiful p90s
yeah, this is one of my
favorite playing guitars, especially for surf shit or even
Reggae it holds a fucking tune like nothing else. But yeah, I also have a few. Um, I have a jaguar
Uh or jaguar
Um a jag sting that we're working on a mustang that we're working on
Um a few telecasters, there's one specific telecaster. It's called an fmt
That's really beautiful and has humbuckers, but it's like a flamed maple and it was actually pretty cheap when they sold it
So if you guys can still get a hold of an fmt cheap, they're so fucking worth it
um when I got it, I bought the body by itself and
uh picked up
The pickups and everything else separately
But yeah, no, I don't have any seven or eight strings. I can barely play the motherfucking things. I don't need that many strings
I also have a fucking really cool four string. Um
It's a telecaster. What is it tenor telecaster? I think that shit's fucking awesome
I I'd be happy with four strings. That's all I need. I don't play no fucking metal solos
You don't need no fucking
extra strings
all that shit
Anyway, huh?
Okay, be safe
Yeah, this this one this one was a
It was just special because of of
The gift factor of it. Someone went way out of their way to give me this beautiful nice very expensive
custom shop jazz master
Um, it was originally for blink 182 or it was either angels and airway
I think it was blink had ordered it and they were just so rich
they didn't have to go pick it up and we're like fuck it we don't need that guitar, so
Went to matt anyway props to dirt or dirt farmer
Um, one of the nicest things anybody's ever done for me really was
Okay, let me put this back
I want to go. It's really rad. I gotta shut this off because it's fucking cool. It's really badass old mod fucking
Guitar strap that's from couch
Couch guitar straps with the fucking shit. I I own so many of those just because the the quality
It's got strap locks on that bitch so break things because I like to break things
Anyway, so there was one funny event that happened today that I wasn't going to be able to share because you know
A lot of people were on youtube and they won't be able to see this if they're just on youtube
But now that i'm just i'm doing this let's see if we could put it on
I guess at the
Mj biz con aka the chad con
Um
Some people got in a fight
Some security guards started whooping ass. I don't know the story behind it
Hopefully one of you got it so you could tell me because that shit was funny as fuck
But I do have the video
Oh, I thought I put the
Other one away. I'll show this one real quick too for those that didn't see it the first time
This is the sg
blueberry burst
Um modern so it's got like fucking clear
uh
I think some of these pop. Yeah
It's got
Modern modern ways to a different neck. Um
Yeah, I love this guitar too. It's really fast to play
Yeah, um, you know if I sang i'd probably play for you guys, but I don't so it'll look dumb me sitting here and playing
Guitar like a fucking 15 year old, but I will show it off. I will show it off
And I suck. I mean I can play punk and reggae and that's about it
I'm 60s reggae not
Not like bob later bob fucking still drone reggae. Anyway back to the video. Let me find this
Yeah, no that security guard was an absolute moron for doing that I think it's let's see this one
Look at that fool throwing these slow-ass punches
This guy's just clinging on to him not even getting hurt by any of it
Good job security guard
You want to do a gear night? Oh, dude, i'll go throw all my pickups and shit mainline i'll do all that shit
Mainline i'll do all that shit. I've got a lot of pickups and stuff. I haven't even put into the cars
I have a beautiful black beauty epiphany
Then he starts fucking beating this dude's ass
The funny thing was this dude on the ground that this guy is is hitting for no reason
Um right before he got sucked in the face. He's like knock this tool out and then got punched on the ground
So yeah
I don't know i'll play it one more time. Look at the slow punch
Oh, you totally missed
This guy's just clenching up trying to hip toss that big old dude. Just trying to hip toss him
You're gonna hit that fucking bulldog and then watch what he just throws him. He's like what?
Fuck out of here just throws him and then he starts walking this way
Stop stop that dude's like stop knock your ass out
On the ground so this is this is a chad con
Yeah, I like how that lady yells security the security's beating the dude's ass
Anyway, um, there was a fight earlier njbizcon chad fight
I thought it was fucking funny as fuck
Play it again. I just played it twice. Yeah, you're gonna have to uh,
I would rewind the show and watch it when I put it up on youtube or leave it up on instagram
First guy is tony vasquez. Who does he work for? Do you know who are these people?
And that right there if you guys don't use your money, right that is the industry
That is going to be what's left of this motherfucking industry
dumbass motherfuckers like that
Who have no business in our fucking industry and not because they fight I mean whatever people are gonna beat each other's ass
But those are guys with some fucking chads
Yeah, you would have been out real quick. Thanks for fighting
I don't fight i'm not like that shit. These people are crazy
These people are crazy
So what do you guys say there's only 97 people here, I don't know if it's worth doing a p91 auction
um
There's only a few packs of these left of the originals
I don't know if it's worth doing it. Maybe i'll do something else though
It isn't as expensive or I wouldn't be so bummed if it doesn't go for a shitload of money. What do you guys say?
Um
What do you guys say auction time or not you guys you guys decide
Want to auction off the parrot let's auction off the parrot
First bid gets her. Yep
First bid gets a pair
Oh, look, I have some banana split blade here someone someone just showed a picture of these
Let me see if I can find it
Let me see if I can find the banana split blade picture here from uh modern day milk
I believe it was had some pictures of her
It was looking pretty cool. Let's see
I need to put those up
somewhere sometime
Um
Damn it. I don't think I
Saved him. I should have oh, yeah, maybe these are them
Not I wish I could throw easily show all three
Let's see
Let's see, let me find you some more pictures
Choose a different asset. There we go. Got that
Now these are all sold out everywhere they've been sold out for a long time, but
I did have some packs that I kept back. I don't know if this is a good picture
No, it's not a great picture, but you get an idea you get an idea
it's uh
There's a lot of strawberry in it
There's a lot of banana and because a lot of people don't know
Bubble gum smells are made up of strawberry and banana. You can actually get really bubble gum and smelling stuff
This is in our old. Um
Our old packs the brass knuckle packs
Um, I haven't I haven't used these in a while
Okay
So
So
You guys want to maybe I won't do that since there's only one pack of those left, um
Do you guys want a bonnet or you guys want to do a banana og wine
Flatten banana og or a bonnet line you guys choose
I'll just whatever you guys choose we'll do it
You want to do 300 on you want to do the p91 we're gonna do it so starting 300 on p91 and then we'll just wait like
Two minutes after the last bid then that gives everyone plenty of time to do it
So this is p91 s1 for those of you don't know what p91 is p91 is an old, uh cut from san diego
before og kush was big before
You know bubble was down there floating hard p91 was the shit p91 hogs breath cat piss
bullrider for all flowing around, um
godzuki, uh
Rob can name some more. He's a fucking san diego king. So this is the p91 s1
and um
Lost this cut shortly after this. I gave it to canerado and I think uh, collie grown
I don't know if they ever did anything with it
It was in such bad shape when I got it and the reason the guy gave it to me because he didn't think he could
Save it
So, yeah p91 s1 300 let me go, uh mark that
419ers pin comment
And
Yeah, well betsy's another great one, uh sister of bull rider or betsy
But this is the special the special san diego one
And and if you miss out on this my homie bittersweet's gonna be making some more I believe of the either the s2s or even
Take it to s3
And his s2s have been phenomenal
Phenomenal if I was going to pass anyone this line to work like that it would be him and i'm super stoked
He took it on super stoked
Um
Since it's a 300 i'm gonna throw in something special extra
And some special let's do something
See I thought I saw something in here it would make a good extra
We've been talking about cherry berry tonight, let's throw in cherry berry on the extra
p91 again is an old
An old cut from san diego, I would say it's a super skunk type, but I think maybe some silver pearl in it possibly
um, I know some of the other san diego dudes think that that's a definite possibility and
I mean a super skunk silver pearl is uh, phenomenal
A pick of p91. I don't know if I have any on the phone right now
So it really wouldn't do any good. Let me take this pick off though
So people don't think that's what i'm showing. There we go
uh, so i'm gonna throw in cherry berry with this p91 and it looks like
419ers is probably gonna get it for 300
There we go
With the cherry berry, maybe i'll throw in something else for him, too
Because that's how we do
A bunch of cherry berry backs in here
um
Blue garage, let's throw in the louis
13 og
Are you bidding that local or are you just asking?
I don't want to pin your comment if you're not bidding it
I'll throw in the the louis the 13th blue bonnet as well for him
Or whoever wins smoke the herb. What's up, buddy?
King of irene
Ooh, maybe i'll throw in some um colorado cough across the platinum and energy
I'm gonna do that. Is that something any of you guys are into?
I don't know
I'll wait on that. I don't think anybody wants any pop stuff in l5. Haze. Nobody gets fucked
You know five haze
Okay
366 66 matt beeman. What do you think? Should I throw in some some cough platinum banana?
Oh, gee, is that something you'd run for our 19ers you get an opinion, too
Afghani or skunky shit in there. I do have blooper skunk. I have a big breeders pack of blooper skunk
100 seed pack matt beeman at 389
Yeah, the p is it's just one of those things if he never got pumped anywhere p never
P never got hiked outside of san diego or so cals and it and it died out so hard
You know that it just never really got
It's just desserts outside of outside of the crew
um
Ogee, kush really really killed that
You got three packs of bloopers, yeah, i'm not gonna put the blooper skunk in
But I do have the blue garrig, which is the louis the 13 blue bonnet
Cherry berry. Yeah, the punchy's been sold out for a while and I didn't really ever sell that
I used it to give away with some shit for stupid ass bdsc
So it was all pretty much wasted and then he popped a shitload of them never saw any of those
Way to hold good to your word isaac
Way to hold good to your word isaac
Fucking cock suck motherfucker
um
Yeah
That's how it goes, dude
Don't trust people especially in this industry people suck
the lineage on blooper skunk is
Uh, giselle crossed a blue bonnet and giselle is the mass super s1
Mass super v2 tech for being super technical
But it was the the only people only mass super that people saw outside of the va super which was a different cut
obviously a different cut
Oh just found some strawberry roadkill too. It goes up. Maybe i'll throw in a pack of those. That's the uh, uh,
What was that?
east coast sour diesel
What was the strawberry roadkill?
Was that the strawberry switchblade here on the mafgani or was that the east coast sour diesel strawberry cream
I think that was more strawberry east coast sour diesel strawberry cream across the blue bonnet. I do have that in there
I think matt beeman's gonna win this I haven't really been counting. Let me see
If you get if you if you want to be get it in
Because uh, we're gonna end it right there. If not
Not so it's doing good. Not so it's doing good. I think we're gonna um, maybe do something with bode very soon
um the three of us which would be I mean we've been waiting for
for
a long time
a long time for a good bode episode brentos freshmaker
at 400
Clock starts again is cult classic. Oh cult classic doesn't even grow but I don't know i'm not gonna be too mean on marcus
I kind of like marcus but
I I don't know if he's grown in the past few years and I know other people were making the seeds for a while
um
Yeah
He's a trip dude's a trip
Dude is a trip. That's all i'm gonna say. I shouldn't even comment on that shit because he's a trip
God bless him
Since farmer ho burnt you on the giselle cut. I feel like to get my hands on some. Yeah, right?
fucking farmer ho
He thinks he knows some shit about some shit little doxin bitch
I think bode and burner got something. No, they I mean, I don't I don't want to say no they don't
I highly doubt it. What's up big worm?
I highly doubt that
May i'm hey
Things are weird in the community right now
So if he wants to work with burner, I ain't gonna shit on him, but he's been around so long
He can do whatever the fuck you want and I'd fucking have his back
I would have his back on anything because that's my boy
So we're at 420
Hold on hold on someone had to do it
Someone had to do it. All right. Um, we're at 440 brentos freshmaker
Since it's at 440 i'm gonna put something else in
Let's see, what do I put in for the people that are bidding to be enticed how about some right berry v4?
so this is going to be the um
What's it called the mob cut across the blue bonnet which is just this is just straight up blueberry straight up fucking blueberry
um
This and the blueberry ix which was a dj short blueberry. Um
Um
Yeah, those those are the two tops for if you just want a pure blueberry line a breeding blueberry line
Nothing else but blueberry
And some endo perps actually is in there, too
Matt b and min ain't giving up. So right now we have the the mob blue bonnet
Cherry berry, which is the cherry gate k blue bonnet
Blue
Garreg with louis blue bonnet louis 13th. Og blue bonnet, which is one of the ogs that lets the berry come through
So if you want a really super berry og, it's phenomenal
And then the p91 s1s one of the last packs of those in existence. Most people pop that shit
Matt beeman at four six six six. Thank you for keeping the number pure
Anybody else have any questions while we're doing this shit
Counting down the minutes see if matt beeman's gonna get it
Local botanist comes in at 470. He's getting nickel and dime here. He's winning victory
Thanks for visiting local
480 for brentos
If it gets to five i'll throw in some else something else
All kinds of weird shit in here that I didn't remember I had I thought there was a uh
Breeders pack of the trinity bonnet in here the 50 pack
Cookie berry v3, too
Let's see, where we at 54 minutes
This one is
Okay, i'll do it again
Right berry v4, which is the mother of berry blue bonnet
Cherry berry cherry aka blue bonnet
Louie og blue bonnet louie 13th. Oh g
Blue bonnet and the p91 s1 one of the very last packs of that one right now
We're at 480 brentos is ruling the ruling the game
Ruling that motherfucking game
So i'm going to count down 30 seconds if you have if you have a bid get it in if not we're going to call it
Oh local comes in at 500
So now I gotta throw some else in cookie berry v3
So this one's you know what let's not do a cookies one
That's too easy. I'm gonna throw in the trinity blue bonnet. So this is the trinity cut that goes around now is trinity
it's not been verified, but pretty much everybody says that
It's the one but you know, i'm just I like to be very oh shit
Let's see. I like to be very specific. So unless it's been verified by the actual. Um
Old trinity trinity crew out of oregon
Then i'm not going to say it's it and half of them think it's it and half of them don't
Yeah, p91 was special
Let's see pink comet
So we have the the 50 pack. This is five packs
of the trinity
Blue bonnet and not a lot of those are out there
along with the riot berry v4
Which is the mother of berry blue bonnet mother of berry
Is probably mendo perps blueberry
Cross to blue bonnet. So you're getting basically a blueberry bx with mendo perps bringing in a lot of perps with it
And for those who are chasing skunk mendo perps is one of those places you can find skunky turps
A lot of people don't know that
You can find them in urkel. You can find them in
In mendo perps you can find them in good old afghanis
But we got the cherry ak blue bonnet as well
louis the 13th og blue bonnet
Trinity crossed a blue bonnet trend trend as according to my buddy
Uh big worm, that's a nickname. He gave it and that's a nickname. I keep with it the trend train
p91 s1
Which is the the grand prize?
See where he at 57
Give it till um
58 minutes on the on the button
So yeah
The mendo s1s that's where you're going to find that's where you if you run enough of those you will find the skunky ones
um
They're going to be some of the ugliest because that tends to happen even with the giselle and the super skunks and stuff like that
The more skunky they are usually the uglier they are
Um, and the more prone to herm they are
But if you want those turps and earth thiols, I should say that's how you got to go
You want those cannabinoids? I think that's the proper term
If you're a real botanist, but i'm i'm not I just play one on tv
um
Yeah
Outdoor urkel is really scummy dude urkel urkel and like, um high and lonesome. He did a um
Dog vaults the poodle nuts cut that thing. Um, will you do?
What's pp will I do a pp?
for canada
I mean, yeah, I don't care where you're at if you're in canada and you can pay then yes
absolutely
um
But yeah, yeah the poodle nuts cut you if you when you you take cuts of that thing
It would be skunk smells everywhere. It is so skunky and flower. It changes a lot. Oh paypal
Um, we'll talk we'll talk yeah, yeah if you're in canada we can work something out
Um
Why are all skunky ones all
Nobby and leafy with dog tongues because that's what scooper super skunk looks like
Brentos fresh maker just came in. I was about to call it comment brentos at 550 getting your uh, getting your last bids
Getting your last bids
Do you have success using s1s as mothers absolutely absolutely
Uh is herming and potency relation just expressions of hyper vigor or more likely to will to live
Uh hermaphroditic expressions could be all kinds of things
555 for local botanist. Um
hermaphroditic
Didic expression could be all kinds of things depends on the line as far as the super skunk goes
It just seems to be a what we call link trait
um
Link trait to the files for whatever that file looks stuff. It tends to be quick to her indoors
It seems to do well outdoor
But not a lot of people want to be growing skunky stuff outdoor for many reasons
Onycd and urkel would be a good combination to bring some of that stuff out
Um, I found that like giselle and sours combined can also complement each other really well to bring that out
There's buster i've been that's someone I didn't remember earlier to
To list but boston roots has been doing some amazing stuff for quite a while and i'm always really impressed by his stuff
I'm always liking his pictures and drooling
575 you guys gonna make me have more shit to this
Let's do bitter chocolate
No, let's do let's do
Let's do pacific northwest hash plant
Crust of blue bonnet. So the pnw hash plant crust of blue bonnet. Not a lot of these have been out
Not a lot of people have seen these
Traditional old hash plant maybe maybe the old original hash plant that made the sensi hash plant line
um
across the blue bonnet
Yeah
And 575 gonna call it soon
Yeah, this is this is fun
Haven't had a good one pop off soon
And I don't mind adding in all the packs because it's you know
What the fuck dude money's tight for everyone right now might as well make it worth it for everyone, right?
So
Get your bids in anybody else where's 6105
Marty according denali reminded me. This is marty, which is why I called it martin short because you know, tj short marty
Martin short sue me. No, don't just kidding allegedly
So we're gonna call it
30 seconds when it once this hits 62 on my screen i'm calling it. Um,
Oh, there's a lot people are bidding on a lot. It starts with the p91 s1
m stash
At 580 anybody doesn't pay anybody that doesn't pay it'll go to the next bidder down. So
People watch on your stuff, but I'm gonna call it
Um
People watch on your stuff guys
People watch let me start taking some screenshots. So I remember who bid what?
Right under that one's that one and right under that is
Let's see
Because i've had people come in here and bid last minute and just do it just to ruin options
So brent toast is back in at 590
What's up, michigan thc. How you doing, dude? Long time. No see
Now I can wave it people look at that
Canapot I never forget you never forget you
All right gonna call it brentos
I think I think I think uh, old brentos is gonna get this one
Calling it
Is g13 and g13 hash plant the same cultivar no one is a hybrid of the other g13 doesn't exist brentos you are the winner
Boom
Brentos gets
Pnw hash plant across the blue bonnet
Cherry a cave blue bonnet
Louis the 13th og blue bonnet
And
Rightberry v4 which is the mother of berry blue bonnet. You got a 50 pack of the trinity blue bonnet and of course
P91 s1s one of the last packs of these. Uh, I hope you enjoy it, dude
Um hit me up after after the live feed and we'll square up
G 13 is g13. Yeah, so g13 died a while ago a long while ago
So if you see the if you see g13 pure ever crossed to anything other than hash plant
haze
um
nl2
skunk one
I think there's one more but i'm forgetting I always forget it. Um hash plant
Haze
Nl2
Skunk one, I think that's it. I think that's it
There might be one more but if you see it crossed to anything other of those
anything other than those four
It's not real it didn't happen
88 don't exist. So
It shouldn't exist. There was no 1988 g13 hash plant
But there is an old pack that swampy had the indian guy made his name off of that was uh,
g13 hash plant
What's it do with the cut jill holds his teeth, you know, it's it's up in the air
But as far as anybody knew it was killed jill might have it. I know that there are people interested in it
It would be nice to know but other than that, um
Until we're sure we don't really we can't really say
It is not
Uh indian guy stuff el totogo. It is swampy stuff swampy past indian guy was his friend
India guy was responsible for passing it to a very few people
um
Yeah, but it was swampy stuff
But you know when people die and other people pass it around people's names get stuck with it
Make sure I took a screenshot of that for brentos. Thank you brentos and everyone else who bid
um
Yeah, thank you
Uh gruesome g13 skunk from shanti. Yeah back in the day
You know, what's funny is shanti also sells g13 widow and this is one of our big like
Points of contention was on his forum. I was like, how the fuck did you get a g13 widow?
g13 was dead by that time
And I ended up getting banned from the forum for a while for asking that question. The answer was that it's really g13
skunk one
crossed a white widow
So, yeah, I mean, you know people are going to sell
Short names they're going to do all kinds of stuff. Not. Everybody's a fucking nerd like me and my boys are
When it comes to names he was swampy. That's way before my time. Yeah, even indian guys before my time
Yes, swampy was just another dude on overgrow and canada's world and he he made uh, the free leonard
Which is the g13 hash plant butterscotch hawaiian, and he was the one who f-genned
Um the g13 hash plant and then indian guy gave it out to some people some more people f-genned it
um, yeah
It's a very nice line the stuff bode did with it was probably my favorite by far
By far the g13 hash plant stuff bode did was fucking phenomenal. He had a he had a killer male
I think that he called deadly g that might have been the female. I think it was the male
He'll have to correct me if i'm wrong. But yeah, he did some phenomenal shit with it. What's your testing protocol?
How many testers do you run of a new release? It just depends. Um, usually i'll run 10 to 20, whatever someone's gonna uh,
Whatever a normal person would pack or pop from a pack is what i'll run
But i'll run a lot of different strains because I make a lot so we'll run through that
Um, I mostly do all the testing in-house with the blue bonnet stuff
I did in-house and out of the house. So a lot of other people were testing it along uh along the same time. Um,
But usually most of the years it's been me testing it myself because there's nothing more
uh
Important than a breeder knowing what he's got in front of him
You really don't know what kind of milk you have unless you're doing it yourself
Uh you too tent flow
Freelander still around so
Yes, and no, I know that um for a while bc blood depot ripped off the strain and called it the big for a while
But they never sell the same thing twice as the same strain. So who knows?
Butterscotch wine still around and um
And g13 hash plant still around so I I would imagine that it could be remade
Not the same obviously as uh swampy intended
But it could be
Made to be something similar at least the butterscotch wine seems to be very consistent for breeding
um butterscotchy turps
Yeah, when making seeds is a good idea to start a male into flower a week or two before the donor plants flower
When i'm doing regular seeds i'll flower them at the same time if i'm reversing seeds
That's a big difference if i'm reversing i'll usually stagger some at one week before
Trigger for the rest some i'll do two weeks a trigger for the rest. I'm i'll do three
Uh in the case of hemp I learned at least with the hemp lines I was working
You trigger them at the same time. It just instantly reverses so well
And so fast that you don't have to worry about it. So
Well and so fast that you don't have to stagger the trigger
He had a couple miles of our call correctly one was a little too dominant and the ones he had very
The first was deadly g. There you go. There you go. Never mind. Your wife is snoring
Do you stress test before breeding? Um, I don't do a lot of stress testing because I think that people should grow weed, right?
You know, but if something is showing any kind of hermaphroditic traits in a normally good grown room
Then there's a fucking problem, you know, you just don't use it
Orange crush. Oh the orange dreams are so old. Hopefully you kept him in a fridge. That's a really old line
How old was the orange crust? I think you said oh my god that whole line was um,
2007 2006 right in there. So it's a really old line. So lean forward. I want to see something
What?
Wait, you can't never wait. You're gonna hit the top of the three. Let's get see
She's gonna try to give me a toupee
Get a red toupee notice your fems being better resin producers, but generally lower yields. I don't I don't notice anything consistent like that. Um,
Yeah, it's just shit in shit out I always say that like it whether it's with uh,
reg seeds fem seeds hash, um
The better quality parents of better quality results and and
Feminization doesn't make things be any more hermaphroditic. It doesn't make any things be more
Stretchy or anything like that. It just it's it just everything is very dependent on what you choose specifically
Skittles is apparently what grape grape grape. No people say it's a green sherb s1. Um
Jode, what was it?
Jodri sherb s1. I think maybe I think that's what the the consensus is
What would you recommend for your cancer treatment symptoms something that is more on the indica side that will help you with your appetite? So
um
what people normally consider sativa's help my appetite, but if if you think that uh
afghani because everybody has a different brain chemistry if afghanis are what help your um,
You know, whatever is going on with your nausea and your and your appetite, um
Stuff like my pacific northwest hash plant blue bonnet does great the white blue bonnet
Yeah
The silver pearl blue bonnet would probably do the nausea thing too
I know silver pearl helped brand a lot and that's a that is a hearty strong indica
Uh, do you remember throw growing the orange crush was that across of california orange? Yes
It was a it was an old cut of cali orange across the blueberry and it was phenomenal. It's my favorite orange strain ever
Yeah, it would have probably been the same one that you would have seen i'll have to go
There was there was a main orange crush going around a cut
Ncga used it a bit. I know jojo used it a bit. We had it down in san diego and james hogg used it a bit
um
Yeah, shit was phenomenal
If you're breeding for a thc cbd variety or thc cbg variety, would you use a hemp male or female?
Okay, let me think in my head if I have a specific project
I if I was breeding for
More cbd and thc I would probably
First start with the female as the hemp and and a strong thc
uh plant as a male
and
See how that went, but it's not there's no certain specific surefire way to do that
It genetics depend on it's so plant specific. There's no surefire way, but that's how I would start it
A dream sickle. I believe that was the name for um, orange cream sickle was the orange dream sandstorm that we made back in the day
When we crossed that orange dream line to sandstorm, it was called orange dream sickle
Yeah, i'm a total nerd on names when it comes to to names I you know
And in the history of lines and provenance and getting sourcing stuff from actual breeders
And then checking to see if that breeder even knows what the fuck they're talking about checking to see if they understood pollen
Contamination or pollen control. I mean and that affects all of us that affects all of us
I don't care who you are
Pollen control is a damn
bitch
and um, if you're not super careful, it will affect you so
Yeah
Yeah, that's that's important to know. How was it made? What was it made in? Was it a tent?
Did you clean your tent between x y and z, you know?
um, that's my biggest warning on the on the mccormick stuff the northern light stuff is that
What the fuck was that
It's a stun gun, yes, I thought you just fucking shocked yourself
Good lord woman's playing with a stun gun over there
Well, it's a flashlight and if you push it the wrong direction
I mean she did that just to fuck with me
Yeah, sure. You did that shit to fuck with me
She wanted to jumpstart my heart
I'm fat. I can't have you do that shit
Jesus christ
See
Breeder syndicate podcast have been a gold mine. Well good dude. I'm glad you enjoy them. We're gonna um, we're gonna be
Doing some more very very soon expect more from breeder syndicate. We already have some in the can and hopefully
There's a lot going on like with with trying to get the right side up the spray site going and all that stuff
So keep posted we'll have that edited soon
We interviewed legend seed company
Red and chimera and it was it was one of my favorite interviews. Um, both of those guys
Uh chimera add him to the list too of amazing fucking breeders that have done amazing shit
um
He's he's one of the biggest wealth of knowledge that i've ever met when it comes to science when it comes to old lines
He's as much of a dork as I am on this stuff
So and red red as well red's been there done that when it comes to the bc stuff
And um, it was an absolute fucking honor to interview those two dudes and I know they've been waiting for it
So i'm excited to bring it all to you because it was really that fucking good
What do we got? What can you tell me about bubble gum that sager matha used and serious eats bubble gum?
Is different I see the indians
Indiana being more indica, but serious says their bubble gum is more sativa
so I believe adam dunn tried to go over that whole thing we were going to do a bubble gum show with all the bubble gum
guys, but um
My friend never got back to me on it that was going to set it up
So I don't know if we'll ever get to it. Um, the indiana bubble gum cut that's over here is from serious seeds
um
It was a selection from the year that serious seeds won the cup
With that said there was I know a lot of people had a lot of there was a lot of phenos in it
And people didn't always find some amazing stuff in it. That was super bubble gummy, but that cut is phenomenal for bubble gum
However, it's not super bubble gum tasting and I think that personally I think you need to add in some terpeneline
So if if any of you guys see csis durban cross to uh, the indiana bubble gum grab it
Grab it. Yeah, I heard him say it comes from illinois adam fucking dumb. It didn't even come from him
It came from someone else. So I don't know what the fuck he's talking about
um on one of the shows he had all the guys on and he couldn't bullshit that illinois stuff, so
um
Is what it is? The guy's a douchebag, but you know, whatever sells for him god bless him for doing that
um
Yeah, I it would be cool to have like
The bubble gum guys i'll sit down and and we can we can talk to him and really put the story together in one place
That people can trust because they know how much of a stickler we all for that shit
But heavy terpeneline with bubble gum will give you bubble gum flavors. That's what happened with the um, since you star 95 since you started bubble gum
pheno
uh that came out of superstar from delta 9 labs, which was what ed bohr got his testers from
um
Luke or i'm sorry from simon early on that was he got that from simon early on he took it in a more sativa direction
and in there was the the
I used to call it menthol bubble gum, but it really it's it's terpeneline bubble gum and it just made everything taste super pink bubble gumming
Um
Yeah, so the terpeneline helps carry some flavors. That's why a lot of people like the trademark chad with the terpeneline and blueberry
um
Boggs was the real deal. Yeah
I don't know what bob used. I do not I mean the the um sour bubble was a sour diesel
um, bubba
Which is not bubble gum, but yeah, what strain have you made that has very citrusy turps and hash?
Oh, I did a lot of orange stuff over the years. I haven't really been fucking with orange lately. Um
Any of the orange oh there was there wasn't orange in the blue bonnet stuff that did have citrusy turps
But also had og type turps
um, so it really took it in a different direction i'm not a big fan of
tangy stuff
for um
i'm, not a big fan of tangy stuff for any orange turps because to me it also smells like like
Spaghetti sauce. I don't know i'm fucking weird
Hogs breath is still around. Um
It had nothing to do with th seeds at all. He never had hogs breath or the real hogs breath. That was our old crew
Um, it is still around uh jimbo passed shit to his sister
The cut after after he passed the sister and brother-in-law got it
And they've passed it to a few people. Um, it was tightly held in a crew for a long time and we did not pass it
uh for for jim's recommendations
but now like
Some other people have it like mad farter has it
um
Brandon russ has nothing to do with anything. Stop plant-based. You're fucking around you're fucking around with that shit
That dude has nothing to do with anything. That motherfucker's a toothless tweaker ain't nobody trusts that motherfucker, and he's a little kid
He's a little kid. It's a toothless tweaker. Why does he think he had anything to do with fucking anything?
I can't believe people would even buy that
um, yeah, the original hogs is still down there
His bog bubble was uh, yeah, I don't know enough about bogs bubble gum that he used
I do know the one in sour bubble was a bubba you trolling my ass
Uh is the wrinkle cut agent orange a goner? I never had a wrinkle cut of agent orange. Um
I did have one of clockwork orange, which was nothing related to agent orange and it is a goner
It is a goner that's been gone for a long time
I used to get so mad when people would call it agent orange because I
Fucking couldn't fucking stand that shit, man. I couldn't stand sub. So I was like, oh not agent orange
Call it god. It's not even an orange smelling strain. It was back when we used to call it. Uh,
Call strains by like their hair color and shit, you know, like it was an orange haired strain. Um
Yeah
And it was like it was orange haired strain and it was very golden when it cured so it just really made sense
It was super potent people were like talking about how their legs would go numb when they smoked it
Um, so I thought that's kind of ultra violent, right?
Is mad farters urkel really especially as people have made it sound?
um
Mad farter has nothing to do with urkel. He never has he's a fucking fresno dork. He's always been a fresno dork
Um urkel's from up in I want to say laytonville
um
He may have the same cut that all of us have had over all the years
I mean urkel was in everybody's garden for a long time. He may have that cut i'm not saying this cut's fake
But yeah, i'm a fucker. I had nothing to do with it. So, um, it's a good cut. Some of us love urkel
I do not like urkel to smoke, but I like I like urkel
To grow I like it to breed because it makes some beautiful stuff has some beautiful turps
But I can't smoke it because it gives me anxiety and panic attacks
Brandon russ. I don't know what that dude said. He used to come in the live feeds and just just spit bullshit myth
meth mouth fucking bullshit in here
Fucking what is he saying? I made fucking bull rider and he didn't even know that he was talking about fucking afghani bull rider
He was trying to say that he made afghani bull rider, but he didn't know afghani bull rider and bull rider were different
He was just so full of shit
so I booted him out of live feed and now apparently some people are taking him seriously because gene would
Just put a stamp on him or something. I don't know gene likes a lot of dorks
I love gene, but gene likes a lot of dorks and I think that's how that shit happened
He's not I don't say I shouldn't even say he likes dorks. He's nice to everyone
I'm an asshole. So i'm not nice to everyone. He's nice to everyone
And wants and wants to see good in everyone and that's a good trait and i'm I just don't have that trait
if someone's a fucking shit bag, and I see him lie that i'm gonna fucking
pop him
um
His great bape just mendo perps probably not it's closer to an urkel hybrid pretty urkel hybrid favorite dosy crosses. Um
i'm gonna be partial
and say
Dos skittles and um dos bananas. Those are my two favorite
Kind of his most notable release. Um, I would say mental floss is one of his best
There was um, he did that the highland mexican blueberry. He had the vision tie blueberry from vision creator, which is cool. Um,
What else did kai meri have those great schnazzleberry
Fighting buddha he had all kinds of shit c4
Kali czar
Dude's been around forever
So hopefully hopefully we will have chimera back to just to talk about some of his strains that he made. Um,
But i'm sure he's gonna wait till we actually have the other one up
Uh dose bananas terp description a little bit of dosy dose a little bit of platinum banana. Og
somewhere in the middle
It's sorry. I just do that all the time because that's really the best answer anybody could give um
Hogs breath, what can you tell me about that ones? Um
Kind of foot funky cheesy sometimes you could get some some fruity turps out of it
Not it was mostly known for its foot funky almost cheesy type funk
Um, it could have been a williams wonder cross
It could have been a lot of things
Jimbo told a lot of people a lot of different things because he wanted to keep it, um proprietary. But yeah
I'm not gonna say anything mean about old flunk tech anymore. He's just a dipshit. That's it. Um
Your top three sativas for strength and flavor. I really liked draw's chocolate tie stuff
Um potency flavor flavor less so but for potency for sure. Um
I like the colombian black that brazilian cico had back in the day, but don't trust them because he fucks everyone now
um
The colombian gold that was in the colombian chemd was really good and colombian chemd was a great line, too
um
Some of the durban stuff that csi's done pretty fucking amazing. Yeah
Um, what were neville's dwarves made of
Magic
I don't know nevel's dwarves. What are you talking about? I don't know. I don't know about his dwarves. Uh, if you're talking about ruder alice
Um, i'm not sure
Anyway, yeah, what's up? Loosh? What's up? Mike diesel?
Uh, anybody else got anything else or are we good it's a friday night I think is it friday or is it saturday?
Friday
So yeah, you cut out during the sativa recap. What was the top three? Oh jesus. Um
chocolate tie from drawl, um
What's the other ones uh colombian black from brazilian seed co. Um
What was the third one
I can't remember now see
Dwarf sativas, I don't remember his dwarf sativas green punk. I don't remember that
Talked to the dude a lot and fucking don't remember that but I mean, it's very positive. I'm not saying it didn't happen. But yeah
Blue wrecker. What's up? Bakter lean you guys want to see some blue wrecker?
I was I was really stoked to see all these because um, this dude, uh ran through all
I think four finos that he ended up picking from um
female
There were some really beautiful pictures of it the blue wreckers and and he found
most of the ones that were
uh, it had a pretty good grading scale of of um,
purely original diesel dominant to
Very blue bonnet dominant. So it was really cool to see those. Um, here's one of them. Let me see
Choose a different asset. Let's see
Let's see
Some cool pictures in here. I really like the way this one looks it reminds me a lot of old like blueberry hybrids
Even like old time moonshine hybrids. He said that it was the led light was very very intense. So he uh,
He was it caused some fox tailing in this pheno
That's a beautiful pheno. I love I love stuff like that. Um, I like unique looks personally. See what else we got
another one
Boom you can't really see the resin production on it
but some of them had great resin production like the original diesel
The girth and thickness and density of the original diesel and blue bonnet has a lot of great density and resin
but um, yeah, it was it was a
Mostly original diesel is going to dominate most stuff. It is a super skunk
Probably with some og type in it or maybe even chem 91 which is a super skunk
Og type but it tends to dominate the berry turps, but we did get some with some berry turps up in here for him. So yeah
Yeah, um, we do have some blue cheese left
uh the uk cheese blue bonnet, which
like
if I I that was one that I made the second round of the blue bonnet runs because people had such a high demand for
It that I had to do it
I know you don't like swerve. That is true. Very true. Dude's a fucking cuck
Um, but could you tell me what you think of his deadhead og
I think he buys seeds from other people without them knowing in bulk and sells them as his own
So god knows I mean it just depends on when you got it from him what it would have been, you know
Would you ever do a great bait blue bonnet if I had great paper in the stable?
I know I know um, csi still has it in stable and probably buddy you might
Uh, maybe yeah blue cheese uk cheese blue bonnet. Yes
One of the turps on that one all over the place, but there are some hella hella cheesy berry fucking beauties in there
beauties
Let's see what else we got. Um
Choose different assets. Sorry i'm getting new to this changing thing. They changed it up on me
There's another picture this one's a different one
It had a really weird like uneven structure
But I if I remember correctly this might have been the most blueberry I don't know
Favorite strain i'm currently running, uh, I just moved so not running anything. We're about to start running a bunch
First time i've been down like totally down in a few years
so
Getting restocked and about to start running stuff again. Um
Right now we have a project going with csi humbled at his his location, which is the nl5 and the hawaiian lights
Uh interesting stuff to come out of texas that's not well known blue bonnet
Um everything that the texas resin company did the shoreline cut that that high and lonesome hasn't runs
um
And you know, maybe maybe expect to see some of that green crack green ribbon the same thing
I don't know anything about green ribbon. That was
After I stopped paying attention, um green crack
Skunk one super skunk a sweet super skunk maybe
What's your take on fat guy, he seems like a really nice guy
I mean, he's just trying to make his way through the shit. He's very respectful and nice
So I have nothing bad to say about the dude haven't run his stuff
He takes a lot of pictures. So, you know check his shit out
Any more questions before I wind this bitch down
Thank you to everyone who participated in the
The beads I want to be careful what I say in the beats
I want to thank everybody who participated in that. It was a good time. Um
Go join patreon again, I was trying to remember what to say go join patreon. Um tomorrow night's the fights
Tomorrow night is the fucking fights. It should be some good ones
You have paulo costa like not wanting to make weight and knocking it up like to what was it like heavyweight now
um
Yeah, jeff from weist is a friend definitely one
Uh, most lemon pine salt og lemon, you know, I don't smell a lot of lemon and og
But that's just how people's noses work. I'm not real hip to lemon
Uh take on barney's farm. They're they're totally a bunk company that makes fake
I mean they put like they put have you seen their purple punch? It's nothing like purple punch
No, it went from 10 flow. It went to a 205 fucking catch weight
He moved it up to a fucking light heavyweight catch weight 205
fucking pathetic, um
High and lonesome and texas resin company or breeders high and lonesome is a breeder and texas resin company is no longer around
Lone star passed away
um
Yeah, so the fights are gonna be on tomorrow join our patreon
It's only five dollars a month and you get access to all kinds of shit updates
Um personal insights you can hit me up
Privately all the time we all fucking hang out kick it on the discord chat
Um, so yeah, all you have to do is go to google type in patreon
Breeders syndicate, um, you'll have first access to all the episodes when they drop and a new one is about to drop
um
you get 10 off at our store and if you join patreon for
Uh speakeasy you get 20 off at both stores. So which is a big advantage, you know
um
Yeah, that's it
I hope you all have a
wonderful night wonderful wonderful night and
Um, I should be back I think next wednesday i'm trying to do an ask me anything about
Um the reversal spray so people can get in the reversal questions and and and the feminized seed questions
I know there's a lot of them. We're trying to get back on the the
Reversal spray train to get it out there because for a long we've been down for a long time during the move
um
yeah, so if you want your reversal spray you want the the
You want the the juice?
The one that everybody tries to imitate but never can do because we've been working on it for over a decade now to perfect this shit
um
Then then keep your eyes peeled. We'll have it for you soon
Lots of love everyone
You
