Then a new lesson in goddamn... see it only lets me search or send invites so I've
got to wait till... let me see I can at least get Chimera in here. So I'll have
Kip hit... do a request once he gets in here and that's how it'll work.
Yeah I'm gonna have to have him send a request to join. I got Chimeras but I
have to wait till Kip's does so I can hit them both in at the same time. Because
when I go to that screen it immediately after it's done it will make it so I
can't touch anything on the screen to add anyone in or even have comment or
anything. It just freezes the phone. So hopefully one more time's all we need.
I don't know how many times all we need. Whenever Kip gets in here let me know.
Sorry to keep doing you dirty guys. Yeah you can do up to four people but I have
to get... oh good I get someone to boot already. Screenshot and hide my video.
That's how we do that one. Kip. So while we're waiting for Kip, anybody got any
questions? Anything you want to be asking the Legend Seeds crew? Get them ready. Get
the good questions ready. Should only be a moment hopefully. Who did I boot that
fast? I don't know. Who did I boot? Guess it was nobody. The Highland Mexican
Blueberry. Yeah that's a that's a that's a special one. Hey Chimera see if Kip's
gonna rejoin. Cake was delicious. I had for my birthday yesterday Brin got me a
what is that a peach cobbler from Smith's Bakery. Oh my god Smith's is the
best. The best cobbler ever made in history for a fat kid to love and
rejoice with. You got lots of cake. Lots of cake. Legends ultimate indica question. Let me see if I
can do it this way real quick. Yeah it's only showing the requests. Let's see it's
not an order so I'm still looking for Kip hopefully to find if he's in here.
Always makes it better when you can have the whole crew if we can pull it
off. Not here yet. Yeah dude. Boomin boomer. I'm a straight boomer when it comes to
electronics apparently. Okay well should we just run with Chimera? Let's do it so
we can get this jamming. And hopefully hopefully if Kip does come in we can try
to add him in. I might be able to do it that way. What's up? We tried.
All right so we're already getting questions about Legends Ultimate Indica.
Yeah did you work on that one at all? No that was Kip and Steve well really it
was Kip that did it. Yeah it was Rob Botany asked that. I saw him chirping away there.
He's really smart good grower. You guys should follow him if you're not already.
He does some really interesting shit. Definitely. The Ultimate Indica is such a
classic fucking story. You know back in the day when they were getting
Switzerland off the ground. The you know the the what was it I guess some of the
people ended up calling it Sweet Tooth 3 but it was like a third back cross to the
grapefruit. You know kind of like I say you know breeders that don't know what
they're doing they kind of rely heavily on back crossing. Hoping that
that solves it all out. Anyway Kip was on Legends and he Steve
actually owned a part of Legends at that point in time. And so you know Kip was
over there working in Switzerland at the warehouse in the field and he was
supposed to get paid you know a big chunk of the compensation was in those
Sweet Tooth 3 beans that had been really hyped up for a year because Steve
hadn't been working. He kind of was like yeah and the game out of
stock and that was the much anticipated release. And so you know Kip had
suspected that he would be getting those what he was promised was he'd be getting
a large portion of the Sweet Tooth 3 seeds that were to be pre-marketed so he
could just turn around and sell those things. And when they were loading up
when they were loading up the room I guess they had a few extra lights like
maybe you know like 10-15% of the lights in the room where they didn't have
enough grapefruit plants to go in. So he took the or they had all these
Ortega plants that were sticking around that Ed Rosenthal had brought over to
Switzerland. Or sorry he brought over the genetic and they had mumbled them up and
yeah you know had these extra plants. And so Kip said well why don't we just why
don't we toss these in the room we've got the space anyway let's toss these
up these Ortega plants in and make an F1 hybrid. And when the crop finally came
down you know Steve said to Kip I'm gonna pay you in these untested F1
hybrid seeds rather than the Sweet Tooth 3 seeds. Which was it was kind of a
bummer I think for Kip because you know he had done all this pre-work and those ones were
pre-sold really. But instead he got those the Ortega Sweet Tooth 3 F1
hybrid or F1 type hybrid. And so he came back to Canada and he had a
couple of shows here and they threw a bunch of they threw a bunch of the what
became the LUI in that room to test them out and grow them before they sold them.
And they turned out to be actually quite banger plants like they really are some
F1 hybrid figure. I didn't love the flavor on them but it was like you know
it was a growers plant. And if you were anything like Hash like it made fucking incredible Hash.
So here's some of my heady bread is saying the LUI sampled from Sativa
Sisters in 2004 was covered in large strike grommets that would snow all over
the plate when broken up. Heavy snow. And that was the cut that they called we
ended up calling Red's Pick. Which is funny. Oh was that Red's Pick? Yeah that was the one.
And it was it's you know like dude it was an amazing plant. Like it really I
don't know actually I don't know if it was an amazing plant. It was an amazing growing plant.
And you'd you know you'd lop the tops off the thing at six weeks because
they were so big and beefy that you'd have mold if you didn't. So yeah that
kind of became the cash croppers method is you'd come in and lop the tops off
in six weeks and then give the the rest like another 10 days or whatever. Yeah.
And yeah really popular clone. I mean shit dude that guy ended up they had a clone Hash as well.
And like it you know they sold trays and trays and trays that clone that thing
for well over a year. And it made all over the place. So yeah. That's crazy.
Yeah interesting interesting plant. Did it end up selling well in seed form? Pretty well. I would think so.
Yeah I think it took like six or eight months before it really caught on. You
know you know how it is in the forest. It takes a cycle for someone to go through it. And then
you know you gotta you know say you send out 20-30 packs of seeds. Yeah. Really it
takes one person that has a really good job that does a good job with it. Yeah.
That's a fact. And that kind of makes it roll. And by that point in time they really did roll. And they started selling well. And yeah.
Here's one for you. Moontide says Chimera do you think you could be bringing back the blueberry of DJ's heyday? The more sativa side?
I probably not in the same way that he could. I mean you know what it's like. It's like yeah you
know you might have like an impression of your buddy's girlfriend but you're never gonna know her like your buddy does. Yeah. Right. And that's kind of how I feel with it. With the blueberry stuff. It's something that DJ's got his own vision of what it is. Yeah. And you know I think that to get close to what he's doing you know he'd be the person to go back and find something that was close to what it was. We've put out a couple of things. I mean in our blueberry hybrid lines like the
Fighting Buddha and then you know the Dolce line. I would probably go down those paths more than try to go down like what. To work backwards. Yeah. Yeah. What people call the blueberry sativa. So. Yeah that makes sense.
Yeah. I hunted down the blue bonnet path this last time which is the more Afghani type. And I always had it in my head that because most of the examples that I'd seen that were super blueberry muffin smelling typically were more narrow leaf type plants. I thought that I was not going to see it as prevalent in the Afghani type. But I saw it more prevalent in the Afghani type from that specific line. It was really interesting.
Yeah I think that those generalizations that were put on the line like we read about like the Moon tide and the old time moonshine essentially being like the Frosty Indica. It's not necessarily clear cut like that. You'll find again because they're all siblings or half siblings you kind of find little bits of each other in every line. Right.
Yeah.
They're more predominantly like the old time moonshine is more predominantly like that. But yeah.
Did you get to run through any of them moonshine rocket fuel.
I did. Now I did. That was one of them. Did I. Yeah. I couldn't remember what era he did that.
That was one of the first releases that he did. And it was like right off the bat right off the bat. They were in limited supply. I worked with him. But we you know I was one of the early clients to be buying pollen from him. He you know he had set up these things and was going to be selling pollen. And so I sent him like a bunch of money early on for that. And it just never showed up. Like the stuff that showed up it was so poorly packaged.
Yeah. Like you just couldn't have been made a bit like in my opinion there was no business there. And he ended up replacing them with a bunch of the blue. What was the satellite the satellite number two. So I got like 150 of those in exchange for the pollen didn't work. And we grew a bunch of them in California. I wasn't impressed with that line. Like I was surprised for being a hybrid.
It was still pretty fucking in breath like it was still weak. And we found a couple of really nice like again not nice plants but the plants that had nice variegation in them. Yeah. Like really some really interesting kind of phenotypical patterns but nothing that was banging. And you know like I said we tested all that stuff to it around it through the lab and it all came back at like it all came back at like you know eight times the cost.
12 percent which is pretty low. Right. Yeah. Yeah. So you know like I said I think that that's actually where the DJ gets the you know you hear people talking about that kind of cerebral headspace. Yeah. I think that that actually is a result not of the terpenes and the chemistry. It's actually a result of the low cannabinoid content.
Interesting. I think when you like when you know you got him. What's up. Yeah. My technical abilities at this stage in a week are really limited guys. It was more my fault than yours.
Trust me. I'm sure it was more meaningful.
For those that don't know this is Red Kip from Legend Seeds. He was one of the other head breeders there and ran the brick and mortar shop. And if you would like to hear more you can also check out our podcast that we just released the other day. Season two episode one of Breeder Syndicate. Happy to have you dude.
Nice to be here. This is my my first one of these ever. So I feel I feel so great. You know vulnerable. So be gentle please.
I use a lot of lube dude.
Love it.
I feel like I should just lob questions up all night. I mean Kip is you know he disappeared from the scene for a while but
you know he hasn't really. I don't think you've ever really gotten your dues for the amount of stuff that you put in. I know it's not about ego or
becoming popular or anything like that for it for you. You do it out of love for the plant. But man you've done some pretty epic stuff back in the day. And like I was telling Matt earlier
you know the work that you're doing with Shelter and helping them get that company off the ground and buying hundreds of kilos and making pre-rolls and selling across the market. I mean it's
they're the consumers are lucky in Canada to have that kind of shit because you know as you know the game is pretty weak. Right. So it's nice to see people that are out there
making making a change and actually putting stuff out that's a reasonable price and gets good reviews.
Yeah.
Guys I mean I have a dream job. I am one of the most fortunate people that I know. I'm humbled every day. I mean guys I get to buy weed for a living and pay taxes.
Right. Right.
It's a trip man. It's a trip.
And that said I get to see the good the bad the ugly across this beautiful country of ours and what's going on and
man the you know the fake news that some of these small outfits get and when they come into the scene and are trying to spread their flower and just like yeah it's so tough like all the cards are stacked so far against this year right now.
That you know what I'm loving is finding small bands of villages that bind together and help each other out through processors and vendors and distributors and
and just you know everybody kind of patting each other on the back and trying to lift each other up but
the ankle biters will succeed in the end.
Yeah. Yeah it does tend to happen.
So Greg Garden says most wreck in Canada is Booth though. What do you think?
It's not you know here's the problem why somebody would say that the provinces they really they
they they like they capture everything in that province and you can't get national distribution.
It's next to impossible from you know Newfoundland to Victoria to get the same weed across and to get
someone's vision out there. It's so regionalized and it's ridiculous because if you think about
the tax nation the vague that the province put on as far as you know the warehousing and the
distribution that they are obviously aware of or sorry that they are obviously a part of
you know it's it's like they're all five terms like they're all little countries each. It's like
you know having 12 countries in a massive continent that you have to deal with.
It's so hard. So you know you get a micro cultivator that pumps out maybe 30 40 kg a month
and you know where's that go. Well that gets eaten up by one province in a matter of like six
weeks if it's fire you know it's gone and man there's some good weed out there. There's some
amazing growers out there. There's 200 micros plus in Canada right now and so are you telling
me that all legal weeds buff? Well I just by the numbers I don't believe it. I think it's
bullshit. I mean I know better. I've puffed it. I've seen the grows. I've walked in that and those
in those guys footsteps along the way. When Shelter first got their first micro that was
Gord from North 40 and he was the first micro cannabis that was branded under his name in
Canada and you know now we've got 242 years later man it's a trip. You know yeah dude.
What now what what qualifies someone as a micro license in Canada? What's the qualifications for
that? Yeah so a micro license is 21 25 so basically you can only have 2 125 square feet of canopy in
your facility okay. That includes your moms, your clones, your cuts, your production plants,
all that kind of stuff but I mean the good ones know how to do it right. It's all about
what follows in the plant, knowing your genetics, knowing your system and implementing the shit you
know. I got a micro up here man he's almost pumping out like on average probably 60 kg a month out of
that canopy. So it's just about the special sauce and the formula. Shocking it's all kush but you
know. Yeah right right but yeah it's it's knowing your strains, knowing how they're going to express
in that particular environment making them shine for for what you have. That's it and also have an
understanding for what the market needs too. I mean yeah that's part of it right. Yeah it's not like
we are all back in the day growing mad warehouses and throwing into some truck into the void.
Yeah exactly. You know we actually have to be responsible for what we put out now.
Hey that a bitch. Yeah right right. Have you seen a lot of the collapse in the market that we've seen
in the US? Well there's a collapse in the shit part of the market for sure. Yeah for sure but
like here in the US it's like I mean things are hitting really low numbers all across the board
like 350 for for uh last I saw anyways just 350 for depths which is insane per pound. So
I mean you know I don't feel so bad Canada's got the cheapest legal weed in the entire globe man.
You're not gonna get some strings plugged for you guys come on.
How do you guys make that work up there? It's just
doing it right just you do it and that's that. Great question money.
Yeah. You know efficiencies scale smaller drops straighter lines less government bureaucracy as
much as we can. The fact is is that that's going to be a slow arduous process. Listen I've said
this before one of the greatest fucking injustices that's going on right now is the excise tax. That's
a federal excise tax it's a buck a gram. Yeah and on top of that I mean I can go on to the five
layers of tax that go on to this bloody plant that's just the biggest egregious one because
that was based on wholesale pricing be at ten dollars a gram. Well that ain't the wholesale
pricing these days. No. So we're getting you're getting screwed I mean the government makes 450
a gram where where a producer could make a buck. Like it's fucking criminal. Yeah it really is.
Um so anyways the fact is is that in order to excuse or to change an excise tax in any level
in Canada takes an active parliament. Yeah. So that ain't happening anytime soon you know. Yeah.
Until we get lobbyists and association getting everyone together and backed like every other
goddamn ministry has to push their agenda to push their goodwill and their message to the rest of
the Canadians. But you're not going to get that when you've got large corporations and then you've
got the small guys. All the mid-sized are being they're being wasted and they're or they're being
bought up. Yeah. The half of the have-nots it's you know small culture big company uh is playing
out in Canada in an exponential way like a video game. Yeah. Yeah and so I mean it's coming down
south soon. You know the only reason Matt it's not legal there yet because they haven't figured
out how to take all the money yet. That's exactly it. Yeah. You really need lobbyists to make any
kind of headway anywhere when it comes to government and taxes and any of it. And I think
being that we're all a bunch of cowboys it's just not our our specialty to be fucking with lobbyists.
It's new. Yeah you know what we're we're the we're the we're the giants that the next generation
will say that they stood on our shoulders as we for the guys in the 70s before us and you know
back in the day. So we all have a part in this long story and we're this chapter. So we do what
we do. Hey brothers and sisters we got it legalized. Yeah right. You know like okay so next step take it
further you know. Let's get hemp as is the only thing that should be being grown across the nation
to save us from you know utter global dissolve as it were. So I mean I can go on and on but
yeah I'm just I'm excited to be a part of it. I love what I do. I get to meet so many cool people
all day. I just feel very lucky that's all. Well we're glad to have you dude. I want to let's let's
let's ask Kip some stuff. Chimera that like talk about some of the bigger lines he's been a part of
that they can still see today so they understand who he is. Yeah well I mean it was such a period
of time and I think a lot of people missed it but I mean legends you guys had all these really
interesting little ones like the Johnny Blaze and you had a Time Warp Blueberry line for a short
period of time and what else is the Honey Bee that Renee Cross the high end. Why don't you tell us
one of those ones and tell us the real story about the Neville's Hayes. Yeah yeah.
I got so I got the last of the 12 scenes of Neville's Hayes that Arian from Greenhouse had
and his personal stash. I picked him up and yeah Arian was a true friend and I don't give a shit
about what everybody's preconditioned thoughts might have been about that cat back in the day.
He was nothing but kind to us, Arian and our crew and the people we had around us at that time.
He was generous with his time. He was a wealth of knowledge and he was an ambassador to a land
we knew much not much about back when we were young twats running around Europe. So yeah he was
just a good person. Anyways we used to sell the seeds right so through Great Canadian Seeds and
the Amsterdam Cafe and Legends. So we would go over to Amsterdam you know four or five times a year
to go buy seeds right. So a lot of many many dinners and good times with the boys. Yeah but he
ended up gifting me the last 12 Neville's Hayes he had from when he got them from the man and
so I used those to cross DJ's daddy from the second line that we did to the True Blue and the F13,
the Moonshine and the same daddy with the Neville's Hayes. We called it Johnny Blaze and it's sad that
I never personally and I'll be honest never got to run any of them. I was so sad but we sure sent
the pile out and our brothers and OG a lot of guys screw them out and man I mean I just felt like
like just so proud to be a part of it. Some of the stuff came out beautiful. You know when you can
pick like six brackets off and just roll them in a paper? Yeah yeah I still have some of those seeds
and I actually used it in a project with the strawberry cream line so still living on. Matty
how'd that turn out? I was trying to recreate the strawberry cream because it was a clone.
At the time I only knew it as a clone from Cedarberry Farms and I was trying to recreate
it and I noticed in the room that it was next to the the old Blue Dream Santa Cruz cut and I
noticed like looking at them you could barely tell any difference and the nose was only slightly more
strawberry in the strawberry cream but it had a lot of the similar smells so I was like if I want
to create this I need a male that's going to be something similar so I went for the Johnny Blaze
and that line still sold today and it's awesome dude. It's one of my favorite lines ever. That
makes me heart warm. Yeah we want to get some of those. Yeah dude they're killer. Yeah killer.
That was six when we made those seeds they went 16 and a half weeks.
Yeah actually maybe it was a full 17. I can't remember that and they were little pins too.
Absolutely those were fun days. We were living beside a NHL player
in a grow house on the west side of Vancouver when we made those seeds. That's awesome.
Yeah those were good days. Those were good days. Yeah I mean again just fortunate to have
been around a pile of different guys that had really tasty cuts and mentors like Dan DJ.
I mean you know he was everything to me in my career and just in my life. I mean
taught me so much. Danny was Uncle Danny to us all for a while there in Vancouver
when him and Carla were living up there. Yeah that's pretty cool. Yeah it was pretty cool man.
Just again really super fortunate. My favorite one again my favorite one that we ran was the high
end. That would be the Rene blueberry. I never got to try that one. I've always wanted to try.
Is Rene still around? Yeah the original cut I don't have my hands on. That thing heard me back
like 30 years ago. I can't imagine. Yeah it was actually that that plant as hyped as it got
it actually had some really negative traits. Like you'd be growing it like at week seven it would
shoot a banana and then just ripen. It was like you would just kind of stop growing. It was a
really weird one. Yeah. Some funk is asking about some Mexican Guerrero. We'll get into that in a
second but I just want to let I wanted Kip to speak on someone was asking about Garrett and
the work that he did with the Seed Bank Originals. Can you talk on the Seed Bank Originals and the
origin of all that? Let that out of the bag and maybe just shed like you know like a personal
story on with Garrett. I mean Garrett was such a nice guy. He reminded me of like you know weird
Al Yankovic. Or the fourth member of Rush. Garrett for those that don't know was a
Magnus seed company that ended up being bought up and kind of consumed and worked into the
serious seed company. Oh Magnus. Yeah. Yeah Magnus. That's right. That's what it was. Yeah.
But he was motivation. I'm trying to remember what it was. It was like motivation warlock right? Yeah.
Yeah it was warlock was his big one. That was like that was the the the hammer of his entire
collection. It was like Setsi Seed Skunk One. Yeah. That I mean that predominated for a while
in the beginning of the Canadian scene up here man. You know. More like what was the other one?
He had that kind of equatorial leaning one too. What was that Ryan? I can't remember his lines.
I don't remember. Yeah. It's been a long time since I've actually even seen it. That's right.
Kootenai Sand. That's right. I have a great story on Garrett. So my dad was doing a stage in Paris
for a year and I was working in Switzerland and so I decided to go see my dad. He was staying
at an old monk villa below like right below St. Michel Square. And so we were hanging out in
Paris and doing that and I said, Dad I got a little business in Amsterdam. And so the year
before is when we had gone and taken all the weed from Switzerland up to the High Times Cup and
entered and gotten third for that. The mercy third. But anyways so we had got a bunch of weed up there
and there was a bunch of coffee shops that still owe us money for the weed. We literally just
dropped a pile of keys on those coffee shops. Just left it and said we got to get the fuck out of here
and we'll be back you know. Yeah. So actually Pete Young calls me. Pete Young calls me. He's like hey
if you're going to Amsterdam go to a place they owe us this much and they owe us this much. And I'm
like okay. So I got a little shit list and okay let's do this. So I said Dad you want to come to
Amsterdam with me? You can be my muscle. I got to go collect some money. My dad's
very much like me. A small little white man. He's a social worker. He doesn't have a harmful bone in his body.
So it was classic. We get there and the first. So I got all my meetings set up right. The first
morning is at the Bluebird with Garrett. And so Garrett's there and he knows that I had this like
abs. Like my tempo ball. My greasy tempo ball. When I was smoking tobacco that when in with tobacco
and a nice coffee in the morning just made my day the way it was supposed to go right.
And so I take my old man. And so my dad and I are smoking. So Garrett's there and he's got
all the nice behind the counter tempo ball and he's throwing them all out there. And my dad's
just like what the. Where am I you know. And so we start puffing. I'm on joint three.
I see my old man on the corner. It's 9 30 in the morning. Half a croissant in his hand passed out
in the corner. We got three more meetings. Like give me a taxi. I'm going back to the hotel.
Look at me like your daddy's not Dutch.
Yeah I love Garrett. Garrett was a good man. He was one of the first guys to come on the
Legends seats from Europe from some from some of the outer Dutch passion that sends you that serious.
Not the big six basically. He was the first guy and I mean we sold a lot of his seeds.
We sold a lot of his seeds. Yeah he was a good man. I really miss him. He was a good guy.
Is that what I heard? No he just got out of the game. He just got out of the game.
Like it was kind of when like the first kind of downsizing was happening.
And in the industry and he just he wasn't into it anymore. And he apparently made an offer to
Simon and Simon took it. So yeah it was like 2010 2011 when they merged I think. Somewhere around there.
Right. Oh that's good. That's a good almost almost nine years after I last dealt with him. So okay.
Well there you go. Good for him man. He was a nice guy. Honest. Always somebody who's gonna do.
Very kind. Very legitimate. Just a really good guy. Yeah his stuff had a good reputation too.
It really did. Like the Warlock. Someone mentioned the Bitty Early. That was another one that he was
famous for. That's right. Oh Bitty Early. Right. Right. Yeah. You know who was around the same time was Felix.
Alex? Alex? Alex Nenus. Dude. Yeah. Dude. He had the. Papriya? Papriya Tichonese.
I've been trying to find the Papriya Tichonense for so many years in pure form. I can't. I mean
like I have like F-Gen of it maybe somewhere. But like yeah it's it's hard to find. And I
as a base purple that breeds true for purple. I have an obsession with purples. That's always
been on the list. And his stuff's so hard to get over here. You're an antho head. Yes. His stuff.
What the special part of his stuff was. It was high altitude bred right. So he was eating those
yields up like 14-1500 feet man. I mean that was some special shit. And it wouldn't mold. I mean
you could literally throw mold at it. It wouldn't mold. And you know it what it didn't get. I bet
if you. I bet if you threw through labs now it probably sat at about 14 percent. Yeah. But it got
you high. It was a good day smoke. It was bountiful. And you also know what I think it had Ryan. I
think it had cedarine in it to be honest with you. Now that I know I can identify that terpene.
Now I know that taste because I've had that taste before. And the first time I had that taste
was in the Papriya Tichonense. Wow. Yeah. Absolutely. Anyways. And then the heaven. His
heaven was one of his best bars. That total equatorial that yielded like a punk was basically
like a Durban crossed haze. It was spectacular. I've never even heard of that one. Yeah. He sold
the heaven and Papriya Tichonense and he had a third one that he only ran two lots of from like
oh one to oh three. I have to go back into my in my page. If I remember I have receipts for three
that we bought from him at one point. Was it Erdbeer? Pardon me? Was it the Erdbeer?
It doesn't ring a bell but brother it might be. It just stands for strawberry. It's a super
strawberry strain that he would go with a lot. You know his nursery was right downtown almost in
in Lugano. It was like this little concrete compound and you had this this greenhouse inside
of it like there are banks all around. Like he was such a he was a very OG original rebel from
Switzerland back in the 2000s. That's awesome. He broke all the rules. Didn't give a flying fuck
and when the cops would start pressing him he'd just go run to the hills for a couple months and
then he'd forget about it and come back. You know he was awesome. But I really I got another guy
that just another teacher in this game you know. Well that's cool like I I've never heard anybody
talk about him and I've always wondered about Alseed's like who he was how he ran his shit so
that's pretty fucking cool. I appreciate that. Just a total mountain man Tichonense and you know
like just an old Italian goat up in the mountains smoking his hair if he was a good time. That's
awesome. Yeah. Kimber Collins the SBOs. The C-Bank. What's that brother? C-Bank Originals.
Ah Jesus. I guess 20 years has passed right? We're allowed to talk about this shit now?
Yeah yeah please do. So we started Legends and you know obviously we didn't you know we were
like the sixth seed company on the internet the world wide web at the time and so it was pretty
all new right and so all we could do is go across to Amsterdam buy a bunch of seed come back and
you know and sell it there you know resell it and then I started getting to know the Canadian
growers and one of my old partners knew Ed Rosenthal and he had gotten basically his hands
on Nebo's last selections in Cali before he went back to the highs before he got busted. Yeah. And
so we got our hand those were dubbed the C-Bank Originals and so we got a chance to these were
we had our hands on they were like 25-30 year old seeds you know and yeah not taken care of
perfectly let's just put it that way. I mean there was probably 35-40% germ rates but what we were
looking for was building blocks to what all the cannabis is we know today let's be frank you know
this is this has to do with skunk man it has to do with all those cats you know we all know who
we're talking about like the big fab four as it were yeah the guys that are the only reasons the
three of us are talking to each other right now. Yeah really. And the people from oh it is it's
it's the founding father the Mount Rushmore of cannabis. I agree. You know this is fact right
and like dudes I still think of I know of every interaction I've ever had with Dave I know that
Ryan would like to forget a few. Only because he's the most contagious old man who's always right
and God love him for Christ's sakes because he usually is.
But to Rob you know to Neville you know to Howard Marks even if you want to go to that
I mean yeah to Ben Dronkers for Christ's sakes like anyway so long story short is we got those
seeds through a partnership and we were allowed to we got a chance to actually sell them up on
Legends and a lot of folks got a lot of building blocks like Calio was one of my best hidden
secrets on that one and the Ortega three both those were my favorite. You had three Ortegas?
Three? Yeah we had the one two and three it was a hash plant cross a kush cross and a skunk cross.
Awesome awesome. We had the original Ortega in Switzerland and that thing was just buttons of
hash I mean it was the purest hash one of the closer land-raised hash plants I'd ever seen
to this day to be quite frank and what I would know because it wasn't bulked up but the resident
was the the most intense resident I'd ever had it was so greasy we had those old damn shakers
you know you put that dry button the top and it had this silly screen you just yeah yeah
you know right like I don't know they were camouflaged it was so funny yeah so we had
one of those at the facility in Switzerland and everyone would always do it with the Ortega
because it would just puke it up like and they're like they have some huge fat heads under the
microscope and dark and greasy as all hell like super greasy and now that I know what myrcene
smells and effects are the thing was covered in it you know yeah big periophylline myrcene it was
peppery it was like uh you know uh black uh black licorice you know it was just easy right yeah and
uh those are the ones you always had the hashbacks with your 15 hashbacks a day
yeah that's crazy yeah so that's my experience with those seeds and again just building blocks
that's what I always wanted to know that's awesome yeah I know a lot of people have been
wanting to hear that story for a long time so thank you very much I know crybaby's in there
looking stoked as fuck he finally got to hear the Ortega story well the funny here's here's
what I'll go you went deeper when we got to Switzerland we uh a friend of ours brought over
two clones from California one was the grapefruit one was the Ortega the original Ortega mom yeah
and those and so that's what we brought over to Switzerland so that's and a friend of ours
brought those over for us so that was pretty funny it cuts in the suitcase yeah that's awesome
and they made it and they made it and uh sold a lot of clones over in Europe and uh you know
I'm sure we started a lot of breeding lines for oh yeah without a doubt so what was so special
about Calio for you the flavor it was the first time I experienced any kind of um uh
what I know now to be limonene, lemonene, terpeneline um I didn't know it then obviously
I didn't have the knowledge or understanding of the vocabulary or the COAs in front of me
yeah um but um that I know now and so it was that I'm a terpeneline junkie I mean if I could do
lines of it all day I would I swear to god I do I do love the terpeneline I think it makes everything
taste way better. Birds of a feather my man. Yeah dude some people hate it it's just one of those
things like if you love it you you can appreciate how much it adds to flavor and the high yeah yeah
agreed you know it's funny because I find the selling to this generation they're all gas heads
you know like yeah let's go total gas heads bring me the gas fuck the tropicals fuck the exotics
give me gas give me gas I just share it all day and I just start feeling like an old man sometimes
and I know I know people are going to kick me in my head if I don't ask both of you
what is the most traditionally smelling like a skunk line that you have been around
like traditionally smelling like uh like uh like a skunk that's been run over a mile away
that kind of skunk what's the most traditionally skunk lines you've come across
and it was called bc skunk back in the day that bc skunk one was
yeah like early 90s and you know I remember hearing about like as a name branded thing
before I knew that you knew that there was branded cannabis or named cannabis varieties right
yeah um but you know what happened I mean everybody stopped growing it because it was
you know during the the kick your door in period of time yeah you know you'd lose it
um where people would you know you could have the cops showing up in your in your house everybody
stopped growing it but um they've recently identified a chemical uh like I can't remember
what it is it's like 1-n-b-t I'd have to look it up because it's got a name like this long yeah
but they've actually identified the compound that's actually responsible for that smell
so and it's a file esther um I think it's an aldehyde I'm actually not sure I'd have to look
it up well see that would make sense though just from the putrid of it putridness of it
do you know what I mean yeah well yeah the very the fact that you just need a little bit and it
has a big effect but the the point is that you once you once you know what blip it is on the
chromatograph it's pretty easy to start looking up plants that have higher amounts in it right so
yeah um
but anyway whatever I'm not a chemistry nerd in the type of like
you come back someone's gonna take someone's gonna take a diverse set of population and start
looking for that blip right that peak in the on the chromatograph and then once you find it then
you just start reading it it'll come up like that's what we did right we've done it with THC
sorry that's the lab reading you were talking about in the podcast
and and the the expense of it is quite quite high to be doing it right yeah yeah you have to do you
have to take it listen when once you've done it you won't go back to the other way I guarantee it
or you'll you'll cry to have to go back to the other way yeah and you'll just you'll do everything
you can including selling your children to like find a way to pay for the test right yeah because
it's like it's so night and day difference between doing it the old school way just on your nose
you know I've had a lot of people kind of like be quite resistant to the whole lab led breeding
thing or the science-led breeding thing and the truth is dude it's it doesn't take anything away
from the way that we've always been doing it it just gives you another set of data to look at
and to refine your knowledge like when I finally got access to the lab we would grow hundreds of
hundreds of plants from across and I would save a little nug for each of them and then when I had
the labs in front of me I'd go through them individual by individual look at the lab report
not even looking at the butt just looking at the lab report and holding the butt underneath my nose
and rolling yeah yeah right and then and going through them sequentially to try to train my nose
to like what is okay so I know that there's a slight difference in the cell and the smell can
I see that on the graphs yeah right because we've we made graphs and everything so that
I find when you have lists of of like terpene names and terpene values as like a you know like
1.3 percent seven whatever whatever expresses the percentage it's kind of meaningless right because
you're kind of like always scrolling through the list and trying to add it up in your head
when you take those numbers and you make a graphical representation of them
we you know we did graphical like essentially peak blind bar graphs so that you could see the
quantity but we also made every terp its own color oh that's smart and in that way like it was a
pain in the ass at first because you'd have to remember oh yeah pinene is green osmine is orange
beta-carioflin is blue but once yeah you know after a hundred lab uh and I like uh samples
you knew which was which and so you didn't even have to like look down a column and see how much
beta-carioflin is there you would look at the graph immediately and be like boom beta-carioflin
is the highest peak right yeah and then what that did is it was it kind of reduced the scent
picture into a graphical representation that your brain could recognize on a moment notice
you were being taught you didn't know you were being taught
exactly exactly that's so visual
yeah when when ryan got back from california and he showed this he showed he explained this all to me
explained this all to me I felt like literally I was the dumbest person in cannabis
you know and marianne has such a beautiful way of being able to describe things to people and
bring it down to its lowest common denominator so you have full understanding uh and it's just
it's amazing sorry ryan I had to bust that out because uh the way you've explained it is really
perfect yeah well it was you know and I we listen I got lucky working with Mark Lewis and Matt Giesey
I mean they're both top top notch chemists and so it was really like kind of spoiling to not have
to figure that whole component out right it was like these are the chemicals that we want to be
looking at and they would go and do all the work right and then come back with these lab reports
that were just fucking like super informative and like I said you could glance at two graphs
somebody asked if it was a spider graph there was a spider graph for flavor but we essentially had
a series of graphs that did you know you'd have you'd have a series of graphs in a in a all on
different rows but one individual would be on a column going through all the graphs and so just
by looking at these four graphs you could get an idea of which plant was had the most luck Steve
Habba's here plant the Habba he's uh actually someone that's been doing work with these same
graphs that I'm just talking about oh awesome um Habba for those of you that don't follow him
is he was kind of behind the lemon crush that won the emerald cup a few years ago I think 2017.
Oh wow.
Um very very talented and educated plant breeder in his own right um but yeah like when you have
the tools to be able to like essentially visualize these things that we call smell
you know like here like for example when we when you smell something you're not smelling
one thing you're smelling an orchestra of compounds all together at the same time right
and so it's kind of like listening to a symphony or like a like a piece of classical music you
don't necessarily hear like the oboe right yeah unless unless you really train your ear and then
you learn how to like pick out the oboe in that overall mix right so um yeah it's it's something
that we haven't done well even amongst the cannabis breeding community but I think that
we need to really do that there's a book in if only a book that David Watson showed that has
called L'Iné Du Vin and it's it's it means the nose of wine and it's a book that you open it up
and it's got like I don't know 20 or 30 little vials that have all the different scents that
you know like smoke and leather and tobacco like all the notes that they used to describe
wine and so I've always wanted to do one of those like a really complete one
for cannabis right that would have all the terpenes yeah you'd have a bunch of
you know a bunch of like all these other volatiles we're talking about the aldehydes
and the esters and thios whatever you can get your hands on and you know put a little
booklet with it so that you can really put this out because right now we have like I mean there's
some people that are kind of starting to figure it out just because like for example Kip like
Kip's in a job where he has hundreds of growers contacting him all the time looking to sell their
weed and he needs a way to be able to segregate like what's good from the bad and so the tool that
we have now is a lab report you know show me the COA and it brings you the you know the certificate
analysis and of course it tells you how much cannabinoids are in it because that's important
everybody on the rec market wants to know what THC is in it but more importantly it becomes about
um about scent right and like you have to have some kind of lab measure and so when you're
sorting through like hundreds of samples of weed that people are trying to sample and sell you
you and you're seeing all the lab reports you get you can actually start it's like oh look here's
one that's pinene dominant all the myrcene one dominant ones go into another pile and the
terpenelein dominant ones go into another pile and you can see it's like it's kind of just like
taking a shuffle pack of cards like face up and then sorting them into their suits
right like when you start looking at them only based on the chemistry you you realize that it's
like oh there's just a bunch of categories right and then yeah everything falls into one of those
categories do you have any idea how much myrcene beta-caryophyllene limonene i see in a day oh i
think that is like eight out of ten coas i see i don't even need to see the sample i'm just like
yeah okay i got it you have some form of
i've been digging into the rosin stash a little bit lately and going through and
you know i'm finding plants that when we separate out the rosin
you can actually they i can tell that they have the same terpene profile but they have like
different profiles of aldehydes or esters and so it's like you really get this idea where you can
actually start to like we can break cannabis apart into you know cannabinoids terpenes
aldehydes esters if there's maybe a thiol class then maybe that comes in there as well
but it's really like in each of those scent molecules or not the cannabinoids because
they're not scented but they're important is that it's really just us layering all these
different combinations of the individual suits in every any chemical class be it like thc or cbd in
the cannabinoid class or like terpene or myrcene or whatever you know in the terpene class and it's
like we're just literally we can only put it together so many ways right but there's some of
these chemicals that like if you put it on or you take it apart or you take this one chemical out it
totally changes the scent right that makes sense so that that like beta cariocholine myrcene dominant
class that is ever present on the market it's like og and yeah cookies and everything in that flavor
class that's like those aren't even the chemicals that are responsible for that gassy scent right
yeah it's just right when they fall in that background and you get that scent modifier
that's when you get like that really funk to it right again orchestra it's about the orchestra
not the and and yeah i think that that's where it becomes you know and crabby was talking about
perfumes earlier it's like that's what like being a perfumier is really about it's like you're
learning how to put together these different it's like you're being a chef really right
yeah really yeah and it's a it's a super kind of deconstructive simplifying approach but like
anybody that's really into this shit like i really suggest trying to do that like try to find a way
where you can get yourself a bunch of lab profiles and the standards like having like i said either
having all these different buds or even better this the like limonene and terpene and teaching
yourself that palette um is like you you can't put into words how powerful it is because again
when we're like look when we're talking about i'll show you one of our canadian funky 50s but like
when we're talking about like color you know we can both look at this and immediately understand
what it is right like we have a reference point where we can both point to this and say look that
is the fucking color that we're talking about you can't do that with scent yeah because like you
again because it's an orchestra of of scent you we can't point to any one part and without each
having a common language agree that we're talking about the same thing and that's why you hear
people using these words like cedary or earthy or floral or herbal yeah but really like that's not
fucking helpful right like no no it isn't you know so and it's one of those things it's like you
have to you have to teach yourself that skill right and for breeding with the labs the fact that you
can i mean the traditional method i mean we all agree is kind of like a shotgun mail method where
you pick a mail based on something just something and seeing how it breeds is completely different
but if you know its actual terpene profile everything you can actually see how he's breeding
which is so much more important than than just the shotgun method yeah like you said it's a whole
nother tool to add to the toolkit yeah and it's like you know i've also like i've also learned
you know like once i have that set of tools i don't always have to rely on the lab
right because it's like you might get across and it's like i can recognize the profiles just
because i recognize what the scent is i don't need to send that sample to a lab unless i'm trying to
quantify right yeah that's the other thing it's like you know the terpene profile is kind of like
the quality like what the type you know you know like a really like a mendelian type way but really
you're also trying to do is breed up the level right and so that's where it's really important
to have the lab it's like because you can't it's kind of hard to do that without like
you know if i handed you a three percent and a four percent terpene but like almost everybody
in this chat room including the people in the lab i think would have a hard time doing that
yeah i know and you can chime in on that here or not but it's just one of those things that's
kind of hard to measure unless you have a gc you know so yeah yeah chem one's one of those
ones that tests high like four to five percent mercy it's crazy it's so much different than
the other chem dogs the chem one it's more nl5 haze based i think but it carries really high
terpene content with the mercy yeah i've got all the fingerprints from those i collected all that
stuff off of off of spy rock um so i'm not oh yeah can you that's where can you tell us some
spy rock stories can we have some spy rock stories want to protect the you don't have to
you got to see some cool stuff out there right yeah well yeah i mean i went there
first time in 2011 and it was like you know it's hard to imagine the context of what it
was like back then but it was a totally different world of course and i remember being so blown away
um we're up there and at the time every property on spy rock there's like 4 000 properties on there
and like at the time every property and i don't think i'm being like too hyperbolic and saying
every property had like 99 trees on it yeah yeah i bet so people were pulling down like you know
500 pounds on a property there was a lot of weed coming out of there and yeah i don't know how much
time you spent up there but they've got this incredible radio station called uh k-mud
which is like it's oh you got to check it out dude it's fucking really cool it's essentially
red i think they call it redwood radio so it's like Laytonville and you know all the way up the
corridor kind of yeah arcata it's the alarm bell it is it is i know i was blown away like because
you know like we're you know i was a foreigner also keep in mind so it was like i was aware that
this was federally illegal and this but this like one this one mountain is essentially pumping out
like jesus dude it must have been in the tonnage of flour um and and everybody was sitting around
during harvest listening to k-mud radio which is it was essentially gorilla it was like grower radio
it was community radio it was it was community radio so it was paid for by the growers so they
were doing their um they were doing their fundraiser you know like npr always does the
fundraisers they were doing their fundraiser for the year during harvest because everybody sits
around with their eyes in the chair and scissors in the hand and you know you'd eat they'd be playing
all these weed songs reggae or whatever kind of esteemed songs and then it would you know the dj
would come on and be like there's a grower up on spy rock that is going to match any donation so
if you're a new guy to the mountain it's your first year and you're trimming and you want to
donate some money to you know to k-mud radio you know this grower j over on wherever is going to
match the first five people's hunter box or whatever and it was so it was really cool because
it was like that's rad it was like the pirate radio signal being broadcast out but the really
fucking cool thing was that it was like you know the news breaking news was like you know they got
someone pulled over over down on whatever road or the helicopters were flying in this valley today
you know like it was they were they were they were the eyes in the sky that's legit
it was fucking cool man it was it was like and when i realized that i was like
dude mendo is fucking on a whole nother level of organization and culture and that's the thing
yeah like can't get lost in the in the transition is it like these people cut out a fucking way of
life up there yeah you know like the growers all banded together and built a school on the mountain
because they didn't want their kids going down the valley and like saying oh yeah my daddy grows
trees for a living or whatever exactly i think that's so fun teach your children well isn't that
the same right and they did i mean every year you know they would like all the growers would save
some of their trunks or their branches and they'd be given to the school and the school would learn
how to make paper from it oh wow you know that's wild well it's just like just like they do in
gilroy with the with garlic town right like gilroy yeah yeah it's like you know the whole
culture is around garlic but it you know it makes it's it's totally normal and that was the thing
that was so impressive to me that it was like fuck this is so normalized and even in a legal
market it's or an illegal district or whatever the federal you know the district of the states
face it all that weed's going back to back east yeah right like sure some of it gets sold in
dispensaries but most of it can't now yeah right so money's not there it's all interstate or black
market shit and still it's a fucking huge culture right like it's it's persistent right you don't
get that kind of that doesn't develop in here like those are like systems that develop over decades
right so i don't know to me mendo and humble the trinity like that whole zone is pretty special
like yeah you know um so yeah i i got a lot of i got a lot of love for those folks on on spy rock
because they're just so fucking balls out yeah i think gene gene mean gene is a a spy rock boy
if i remember oh nice yeah yeah it's beautiful up there man it's really beautiful
i remember at the top there's this like rock outcropping where these like there's these
weird patterns that are cut into the rock and they think it's like it was like a native map
that they had put up in the top of this mountain so that you could like you know you could stand
overlooking this valley and you could essentially see the different watersheds and which tribes were
living in which watershed right that's awesome isn't that why it's called spy rock like for the
kids to the kids lookout area spy rock looking out for the cops i heard that at the top of the
mountain there's a big like it looks kind of like a mohawk stepping up out of the top of the mountain
so i think that that was the spy rock you know but i don't know where the origin was but yeah it's
like people have been living there for thousands of years you know that's why we think it's like
in european terms and pot growers but it's like there is people that were living up there for
you know eons yeah it's cool man so yeah is there anything you could speak on in the tom hill range
or that you want to talk about there or any of the work you saw yeah tom's a funny guy like
he's he's pretty brazen on the forums but he's i don't really find him like that
yeah in in in real life until he gets like you know a few beers in him and then he's like
yeah he's a strongly opinionated opinionated person um first time i met him he fucking lit
me up about writing something about single seed descent in that jorge book like years and years
ago and i was like yeah i don't think that that's what i wrote but he's like he really gets into the
minutiae on the breeding stuff but he doesn't have a lot of space to be doing that you know
he's someone that i would love to see get a field right oh yeah and put a leash on him so that he
couldn't or one of those shock collars so that he couldn't leave the property
shiny objects
he could be doing some interesting stuff i feel like he's like wasting his talents up there but
yeah i got nothing but love for him he's a good guy now how about some of your um
watson stories as far as breeding goes is there anything you can talk about with that
there's so many i mean listen you know how it is with david he's such a private individual
yeah yeah for sure that like i really want him to tell those stories because that's how i learned
right and to a degree to beggin to have him tell him oh i know i know and he like it's going to be
a thing it's going to be a challenge to get it done but it's important because like i don't you
know if if it did come that day for to pass then i would start sharing some of these stories yeah
you know because there's knowledge there so much that he that just things that he taught me about
collecting pollen or like yeah you know he did like these epic epic
like i'll tell you some interesting stories one day but like oh man dave found a way
years and years and years ago to work within the system
like with the with within the existing hemp world but get work done like get work on drug
cannabis whether it was like producing tons of seed or like you know like he really figured out
ways to operate in both sides legally yeah he is like he was compliant right like he was following
the terms of his license or whatever it was doing and and so you know like everybody you know
everybody kind of knows about dave's seed collection well there's there's also a pollen
collection right there's a pollen collection that's bigger than most people's seed collection
like it's huge um and you know i just when you start thinking about
like for example dude every time you throw pollen are you collecting pollen
no why not i i've always had a hard time storing it and then when i go back to use it it's just not
viable and i waste a whole round on it yeah well so he's like he's figured that all out so i yeah
he's got like jars of pollen like you can walk into a room crack a jar out of the freezer and
toss it in front of a fan and then you know we're talking like 15 20 year old pollen yeah that's
getting full seed full seed set so you know that's one of the things i'm going to be doing as i as i
move forward on the next round of really really serious breeding is setting up like pollen
collection so that every time you're dropping pollen you you have satchels of that pollen
right little hope bundles or whatever that you can go back to because it's just
it's such a little amount of work to do that versus having to go through the process of
initiate a plant and get more pollen from that genotype again right it's like you may as well
do it so i was saying that on one of our little one of the future cannabis podcasts the other day
but it's like you know i'm all about like you know and um dude from rebel grown i'm forgetting
his real name right now yeah i don't know jay but rebel grown i think his name is jay but he's like
you know he was talking about like for example when you're you know you got you got a parent
or say you're making an s1 right so you've made a cross and then you do a selection and
so you've now you've got your your f1c that you're growing through the cross that you made
if you find a plant that you're you want to sell in that generation like you may as well
self that plant but also pollinate it to both of the parental generation at the same time because
you got the pollen flying anyway right all you're doing is sticking a clone in there to collect even
if you get 100 seeds or a couple hundred seeds i mean that's enough for like a breeding project
it's not a commercial release but it's like you know you've got that in the bank or in the vault
yeah um yeah so just little things like that you know what i mean i'm gonna try to be trying to be
efficient your brain well and that's like this all that most of this stuff came from dave right
not necessarily the selfing things but like just opening my eyes up to like different ways of doing
it not getting kind of stuck in the same thought process that we all get stuck in through passing
info around on forums or instagram you know what i mean exactly yeah we get stuck in a rut so that's
why it's so cool when you get all these new people coming on you know into the community from outside
you know like the cinch change sync cinch angel guy i don't know you've seen him
mac yeah yeah he's posting some really great information online right yeah and it's like
that's the real beauty of legalization is that we now are not like dirty untouchables
we get to associate with all the rest of the people in society right and and learn and benefit
from them right so i don't know i'm ranting no no but that's that pollen text i want it
i mean really i've had such a hard time storing pollen it and during so many crops trying to
use stored pollen and and i mean i go through the method of using a pollen screen you know to make
sure all the male parts are out let it dry put it inside of a airtight container that's dark you know
in in the fridge or freezer and it just fucking never works yeah well the drying it properly is a
big big thing clean maybe that's big drying it properly is a big thing and then making sure that
it's frozen it stays frozen like he's got a dedicated freezer yeah right that makes sense
yeah listen some of these things like they become like possible when you have scale like you can't
really do some of this shit on on like bedroom scale you can play around yeah for sure but it's
like it's really hard to really do it you know but that's like the reason for sharing that is that i
want you to take it like i want everybody to take that stuff and you know those are the those are
the things that dave has taught me that i would love for him to share with the rest of the community
it's just you know i think part of the reason is that we have all these people that have just
trashed him online for years and years because you know partly because they were jealous i mean like
you know kip was talking about rm before but like one of the reasons people don't like rm is because
he's successful and he's fucking really good at what he does and he makes a lot of money yeah
people are jealous right people are jealous like that's the truth um and the same thing happened
with dave he got the licenses to work in holland when when the dutch dudes that lived there couldn't
figure out how to get the licenses yeah and and he figured out which you know which path to take to
get the trophy you know and they hated him for it and and so that's where all the stories started
coming from was but it was based in chelsea and i tell you dude like after knowing david
and learning from him for so long he's the real fucking deal you know and anybody that says
otherwise they just don't know it's like when people i see people start barking shit about like
watson being a fucking d agent or whatever it is it's like i'm just like oh well this guy just
doesn't know right he's like he's self-identity he's identifying himself as someone that doesn't
get it because like dave for real like and he's done yeah that's such a that stuff's been passed
that stuff's been passed around for so long i was involved in it i mean i thought he was
a d agent because of what neville told me directly you know and i think it and it takes a long time
for stuff like that to die out but with him not interacting much and not i mean he shouldn't have
to defend himself if it's not true right but with him not there's not a lot of input from it so
people just run with it and it's it's it becomes lord yeah and you know how these things are it's
like you know you have a negative kind of something happens in your life and it's like
you got to deal with it like some other people talking about it all the time and you deal with
it and it goes away but it's like some of those things it's like they just never go away like
people just keep bringing it up no matter what and like when when truthfully like and i will say
this like believing it 100 there is nobody live on the fucking planet that has done more for
cannabis than david botson like that is the fucking i would agree gospel i would agree
without a doubt um including like you know founding and funding the international
hypersociation right like he created a hub in that process and brought all the individual
researchers in the world gave them all a central hub place to call home and that created a sense
of community for the cannabis like the whole industry like the global cannabis industry
at a time when the dea were fucking knocking countries off left right and center right so
yeah you know i i would love to have david answer all these questions and just have just sit there
and be like i wouldn't even want to be i just want to draw the information out of him right
because i know a lot of the stories now so it's like i know what questions to ask to get him to
talk but he's done some like just absolutely incredible things with cannabis and if he doesn't
share those stories um while he's around there has to be a movie made to document it for history
because it's like the level of epicness is like ridiculous like just for what i know for a fact
is it would be a crazy fucking movie all of it yeah yeah he's managed one of the shadows
one dinner's worth of conversation could easily do a movie right like dinner with andre but dinner
with dave easy peasy you can get lost on so many roads of his incredible intellect and adventure
yeah and balls to do what he did like balls and balls and just because he didn't like just
because he didn't give a fuck you know what i mean he like he firmly believed that it was the right
like he told me a story about being in morocco and getting like sickness and you know in morocco
they're not toilets it's just like a hole on the floor kind of thing right yeah and so he's like
having some virus or some bacteria just like go through his system and decimate him and he started
smoking hash on the while he was over the hole so to speak and it immediately realized that cannabis
had medicinal value it was like it didn't work for him right and this is back before anybody
had really considered like that cannabis was medicinal like we're talking like 60s here
yeah um and just made it his life's work to like take that as far as he could and you know you know
horticulture stories and the gw and all the stuff that people have said if you can just distill that
down to like the few truths that exist in there dave had the fucking first medical marijuana
in the world yeah he did right like there was no one else doing it back then and i think that's
where a lot of the suspicion came from you know that he was just he pulled it off how do you do
it yeah and jealousy right too it's like resentment exactly that he figured out when nobody else kid
and you know he you know yeah i don't know i got nothing but good things to say about david i mean
anyways he's kind of a father figure to me um you know kip and and these dudes had met him
well before i had marcus richardson they knew him before and dave and i used to just speak online
but when when i met him he was really rude to me like the first time i met him like he essentially
turned his back to me and like gave me the back right but that's generally how david meets people
by the way okay i'm sure he has a punch for me but that's okay i'd take a punch to meet him
well i i had the key to the secret club um of dave of david's and it's essentially like if you have
the five star the six star hash or like an incredible you know a little jar of rosin or
something like that like something that's truly fire and dave will sit down and chat with you
he's so passionate about it that it's like if you have if you have the goods
they he has to give you respect because you you don't just end up with a jar like this you know
what i mean yeah of truly top top top top top shelf stuff yeah like you have to be an artist or
have at least have an appreciation for making and finding the best and if you have that then
you're dave's kindred soulmate right because that's his only goal in life is to find the best
i have a little tag on to that when i first met dave he was walking through our facility
over in europe and uh a very intimidating figure he's a big guy big taxi yeah and uh
so you know as you go through the facility he just kept taking his wooden matches and letting
them and hitting this bubble that he had on this tiny little pipe and then they dropped the match
you literally like a treasure trail could follow where david's been through all the matches on the
chair and throughout the facility like through doors around corners come back around it was like
some kind of you know denny's treasure map for kids so is he a big hashter as opposed to a flower
smoker is he more into hash or i've never seen him smoke flower never oh wild that's pretty cool
that's a good little insight into his brain yeah he's a pure resin farmer he's this thing that he
says either i'll tell you one story he tells me that he's i've heard him say a few times when he
was in afghanistan we're talking like late 60s he and his wife were sitting around with a bunch of
old men the babas in the village and they were smoking uh bubbly bubblies of the the finest hash
that they had and david was over there collecting seeds right like he was yeah to find stuff to bring
back and so he asked this old afghan dude for um some cannabis so that he could get nuts he didn't
say so i can get the seeds but he's like yeah yeah do you have the flowers and he said like like
every everybody stopped talking and it was just like dead silence and one of the men said
he said the man looked at him like he was a piece of shit and he said hasheesh is for men
cannabis flower is for women and slaves
oh we're talking like this is old school you know yeah yeah yeah like afghan culture
yeah but dave explained to him no i want i want the flower so i can get the seeds and take it back
to california and grow plants to make my own hash and he was like that was it that was acceptable
that's funny so but dave was i would love to know if you if you know when was the first time he was
encountering afghanis was he one of the first people importing the seeds of afghanis to the u.s
i mean in the late 60s i'm not sure i mean he did he's always kind of gone through afghanis i mean
even when they were in um at hortifarm like he was always screening shitloads of afghani seeds
because people were always coming back from there with different lots but he said generally it was
shit like it was not what you wanted yeah remember dave got pretty spoiled or spoiled early on with
like you know like his neighbors with the hayes brothers right so he had like
i think it's hard for people of our age to understand that there was a time
that was pre like afghanica right exactly yeah most people our age don't know that it came in
the you know late 70s early 80s exactly that's when it gains popularity and and so when it did
come i mean rob i think it was rob wrote um an article on it for high times but it was that you
know they high times had like a ban the bud issue it was like we need to ban it and we need to ban
indica because it's like fucking up our shit right there's like a movement in the community
it was like that's why i stopped cross nate indica and everything because it's ruining our nice highs
from the colombians and the mexicans right the jamaica so brilliant so ahead of its time really
right yeah like now with cookies i mean people want to ban cookies from from genetics because
everything's cookies everything yeah yeah yeah i'll be the first person to sign up to that
petition yeah i'm part of the problem though because i use it too so what the fuck do i know
you know it's opium for the masses right yeah well this this is super gas too so i'm like you know
i'm also guilty but i i really do try to push the the different terpene profiles because there's
just some stuff i mean yeah we came across this one thing that was like a piney like it had almost
no other turks but it was like a lot of piney and a lot of limonene and dude this shit was zippy
zippy zippy it was like yeah and focused and just high energy um you're not talking about that you're
not talking about last summer no no no when i first came up to pr i had a bag of it um i don't
know if you tried anything i wear i was calling it the lime and pine um yes okay yeah okay but
again it's in that it's just in that very like equatorial family side of things didn't yield
or shit you know what i mean like it was a terrible plant to grow but it was a lovely effect and the
rosin from it was like you know took some down to marcus and we pressed up a couple ounces of it and
it was fire as fuck but um you know you'd want to be growing that stuff in large cheap greenhouses
outside oh i'm sure because indoors it just didn't make sense for the real estate you know
yeah those things are big and burly and not a lot of yield on some level
yeah and somebody was asking about the guerrero line oh yeah let's talk about that blueberry
that was one of those plants so i'd been playing with those seeds for a little bit somebody sent
us a bunch of old stuff um legends actually when people would be like oh i have these seeds i want
you to get in your hand i just say send them legends because they have a box right so yeah
and anyway we found these these this old mexican and screened through a bunch of them and
they were gangly and like just unruly as hell and when we were making the seeds for the blueberry
stuff i just i was like let's get one of those in there yeah and you know i think one plant must
be yielded like it was you know it grew huge and it's probably in the like five to ten thousand
seeds from that one plant um but the the way they came together with the blueberry i mean you know
the blueberry kind of has that phenotype there's the two phenotypes there's like the kind of more
compact round classic bud but it also does like those kind of knuckley buds where they're like
kind of like little foxtails yeah yeah when that got into the mexican that made some crazy
expressions right like just the flowers that were like long sets of bracts or like yellow
on foxtail i remember what the the i remember what the cross looked like in pictures yeah real
it reminded me of the picture of lamb's bread and jason king's can of bible real long super long
so that's you know that's still a fun one i really want to dig into that line but it kind of like
i'm kind of hoping that someone on like in the caribbean says hey come and plant like
you know five acres down here for selections because that's where you'd want to do it
it's just it's too it's too hard to do indoors right and in canada unless you are tarp in that
stuff you're not going to get that ever to flat like to finish flowering so yeah um yeah these
are the fun things that happen with like legalization happening all over the world
is we can legally move germplasm to these new districts and set up a fucking screening station
right yeah yeah i have a bunch of stuff that i would love to run but and that people have asked
me if i'm going to work but the realistic part of it is i'm never going to see the
ultimate expression of it unless it's run in a proper place to even see what you can select
well i'm really hoping that this latest project that i'm working on is going to afford you know
it's we're going to get some space to to do some cool stuff some cool work and like i was saying to
kip ryan tonight like i don't want to make it about the ryan show you know if we've got a chance
to like really explore dude all of my friends that have interesting seeds you know are going
to be welcome to come and you know be part of that however that looks like is it going to be canada
it's international but there's going to be a location in canada yeah very excellent
yeah so the idea is to kind of have nursery services to to the new districts that are
opening up all over the world right that's awesome and so the idea is to find a like a
royalty model that is that works for breeders so that they want to be part of it and they can opt
into whatever degree of participation they want to or not um and then we'll essentially offer
nursery services so that it'll help people get into these markets globally right because it was
one of the things that was really fucked up about canada and it's it it's been it's been a real
problem as the industry grows is that there was no central place that had a bunch of different good
varieties that you could use or work with you know i mean there's hundreds of excellent cultivars
like across the globe right but essentially like people are like trying to start these like
multi-billion dollar companies with like three seeds they bought off the internet from kip
you know what i mean crazy in a way yeah one of these massive massive big like pubcos where we're
talking like the top three players when they started their bank their bank they did the same
thing that all the beginners do is they went and got like a hundred different types of named
varieties but they got a three pack of each yeah yeah and it's like dude you'd be better off getting
three packs at a hundred of each yeah right right because then you can actually do a real selection
but again it's like that total lack of understanding of cannabis to the point of
like you think that you can grow three things with a name on it and they're all going to come
up looking the same like that's fucking delusional yeah that's highly delusional
really delusional
but at the same time it's like everyone runs to one side of the boat then everyone runs to the
other side of the boat then they go to the back side and they go to the front side i mean it's
it's cookies it's wedding cake it's gelato it's mac one it's i mean it just it just keep you know
the problem is keeping it in vogue i mean you've got to make an iconic cultivar
to get maybe two year run out of it at this at the way the market is right now
otherwise you're 10 months you're out yeah and then that's just the reality of unfortunately
what it is so how so how does that play with what you know ryan's talking about and genetics
and and how do because nursery spent all this time the breeders spent all this time perfecting these
beautiful cultivars for specific morphological grows in specific paradigms of growing and they
have all this work on them they can literally tell they get defeated every bloody day like it's a
like a crop a point setup you know yeah and then all for it to be out of favor in 10 months
yeah me and um csi were talking about this the other day and uh we're both believers in testing
like running your own shit so you know what your own shit is so you can see it in front of your
face so you know how that male breeds etc but at the rate the market's going it's it's almost
getting to the point of where testing will flush yourself out of the market as odd as that sounds
and you know honestly go ahead no i was just gonna say what i found effective
in the industry in a short in the short snapshot we've seen is guys who roll you know sorry
companies that roll four bars roll them just roll them and so like you can get like three or four
you might pull a year off a single bar but you're rolling four so it buys you extra time and it
keeps you relevant and it keeps you fresh and it keeps people's interest in you because like fly
like they just like they forget like they're like nuts consumers man what's new what's hot what's
new what's hot what's new what's hot brand loyalty there's no brand loyalty there's no
cultivar loyalty there's no flavor profile loyalty there's no loyalty yeah that's not
the funniest thing is saying that i mean i i agree what you're saying to is to a degree but like
in the states we've seen this thing where there actually is brand loyalty or not there is cultivar
loyalty because they can market it they can make it a culture we can't do that up here
that's the problem yeah well we're just fucking same label fucking dopes all selling the same
12 different versions of cookie and kush you know like yay well that's that's kind of what i'm trying
to get to that to like you know the comment earlier about it all being booth to a degree
it's true because all these companies that came out hot and already the beginning with all the
money they were all public companies and they were all talking flash and million square foot
greenhouses and blah blah blah blah blah but we've seen over the last three years they're all
fucking suffering i mean canopy is just they're bleeding billions of dollars and their weed sucks
and you know like i said like what it should have been from the start is just transitioning
all the illegal growers over and letting them keep running their business rather than trying
to displace them right but no one would have made any money then right well they would never be
legalized that way the only money that anybody is exactly made is is off of stock plays like they
haven't actually made any money selling weed which is crazy when you think about how many families
and mortgages were supported and paid for across the united states north america and canada as well
i mean that money went around not only to the growers but to their communities right like
banks it's not like people were getting rich off cannabis when people were paying the bills
um yeah but anyway i see that the i you know i think we're going to be going through some growing
pains here that you guys definitely are not going to experience down in the states because you don't
have that federal like not only did they federalize the the production laws and everything but the
distribution is all provincial like it's all run by state like boards that's right right and and
like kip was saying the way that you have to sell to those boards like for example you know if you
go into a wine store in california it's like you can get pinos from 100 different producers
try finding like like a platinum cookies from or what's give me a popular one camp or a mac 10
wedding cake wedding cake right it's like the ldb is the liquor distribution boards
they're like no we already have a wedding cake we're not going to buy that
yeah right what happens is people have to rename it right yeah i think that that's part of what's
changing what's creating this like like kip was saying it's this this unattainable or you were
saying as well with caleb i mean it's this unattainable drive for the new new that it's like
we're going so fast it's like you don't even have time to appreciate what you made it's like you're
just making a new nft and selling them again yeah exactly and that's not the way cannabis is very
topical right so yeah it's it's backwards it's it it's very regressive for breeding period yeah it
it's not doable it's like it's yeah it's literally like yeah and you know
on we're using the platform right now it's the instagram immediacy of needing something new
right and that's how the most recent generation has kind of learned about canada's
so i i you know we got a lot of work to do to redistribute um the knowledge and get all these
old varieties back in um not only to the hands of the consumers but also teach these like liquor
distribution boards it's like you know you you can't come in this listen they you know what it's
like you're running a district you're doing distribution you want to deal with five suppliers
and sell to a thousand customers you don't want to deal with like 500 suppliers and sell to a
thousand customers i mean it's a lot more work right but we're seeing more and more and we said
it since the beginning big popco cannabis like public market company cannabis that ain't the
fucking future right because it becomes like this like this dangling carrot where it's like they're
it's more they're more interested in the stock price than the weed yeah um and the customer
doesn't give a fuck about the stock price the customer gives a shit about the weed
so if you're not giving the customer what they want what they want why would anybody buy from
you and we're seeing like that play out year after year now where we can track their sales
in the legal market and you see it's just like it's going down like nobody's buying the drinks
nobody's buying the gummies but the reason they're doing this and it's very clear and very simple is
that they're revenue driven they're not profit driven right it's because and that's what it needs
to be like people need to understand that's why they sell for losses that's why they sell and
undercut everybody else that's trying to make a decent living and a decent wage on you know on a
family business because they don't give a shit they can run losses for exactly so right look at
canopy look at aurora like they all ran losses right like that's how the corporate's right that's
capitalist yeah yeah they run at a loss until they until they run their their competitors out of
money and then they operate and take over the market drive everything up and jack the prices up
yeah you know listen that would that would work that would work in a whole bunch of other crops
where the consumer wasn't intimate with quality the the consumer demands quality in cannabis i
mean you're not going to smoke fucking shite right you're not um and i'm not going to the market
because this is what i'm used to yeah but but ryan honestly though i mean like 65 percent of
all cannabis buyers dry buy dry cannabis here in canada okay and what and what portion are they
buying it in they're buying it in the cheapest possible way for the highest possible thc with
no differentiation they don't want to spend over 25 bucks a naith generally and they just they just
want their cheap dope they want to get in get out of the store i mean this is what this these are
what the metrics are telling us like monthly when we get all these numbers going to come in
and it's just so disheartening but again it's because we can't um market our our products
properly we can't talk to the funders the biggest chasm in the world in the industry is producers
and buttenders i mean that's just horrific you know the lack of education you know like they're
not telling stories especially making 16 bucks an hour they're not here to tell stories no they
just want to like punch their clock and get the fuck out so it's on us as an industry to have to
be able to tell these stories and what is it you know like guerrilla warfare ways like back in the
day like i don't know what to say at this point in the game it's it's it's crazy like i gotta tell
you like you know there's tons of companies that are pressing and pushing the boundaries of what's
allowable you know in marketing and labeling and and a voice here in canada they're so understaffed
to be quite frank like they're not they're not really doing anything i mean you look at an op
that was growing illegal dope in illegal rooms and they still have a license and they got busted cold
so i mean you know you can bust me for for putting my font two sizes too big on a label
give me a break yeah anyways
i just think that i think you're right i think we have to and i've been saying this for a while we
have to figure out a way to make people want to educate themselves and that's so fucking hard to
do when it comes to weed so hard because a lot of people just want to smoke that's it and with
grief as a culture we're preaching we always want everyone to be as happy as we are with what we
found in life to be true and so people just don't have that relationship and we can't push that
but yet there's still a consumer they're just not ahead right so and we have to there's also that
and that's a large part of the growing consumer base they don't have the attachment we all did
with the legalization the hidden shame the you know the meeting in the parking lots all that
crap yeah you know what for christ's sakes you know yeah they're just best dealers and so this
is not the generation that our generation understands and it's a new consumer and new
consumers want different flavors and they want they want the cannabis delivered to them differently
they want it in different skews and they want to be able to go online and order it up and they don't
want any personal interaction yeah yeah you're going to be able to tell a story digitally and
and find a campaign that touches these kinds of consumers that aren't us because all we do guys is
down to a hallway generally and you know that yeah that's for sure you know so again open minds and I
mean I turned 50 this year and man like my mind is I know less and less each day in this industry
like there's just so much populating this industry all day that it's so tough to keep
a handle on a lot of it to be quite frank but it keeps you it keeps you interested there's
no doubt about that yeah that's for sure yeah I'm learning the seed industry every
I always think I have it figured out and then something comes along to make me realize how
much I don't have it figured out and I watch a lot of these young bucks figure it out just
instantly around me they they're making it happen you know it's wild they have an app for it they
have a program for it man they're more dialed into what's going on and and how it operates and
I just turned 40 like yesterday so I you know I'm starting to feel a little old myself and all this
nice money well yeah we got over an hour and a half in and um god I could keep going and going
and going and going and bothering you all night but um if you guys ever want to come back and do
this anytime I know everybody watching enjoyed it I've been watching the comments and it's it's been
very fruitful and I really appreciate you guys coming back to do this for the reunion and um
I'm really stoked with the podcast so if you're anybody watching right now hasn't watched it
feel free to go to Breeder Syndicate and uh we have Chimera in Red right here with us and that
was who is in season two episode one um this this episode will be available via our Patreon
after this so yeah join the Patreon for Breeder Syndicate and uh hopefully we can have these fine
gentlemen back again and and I I really appreciate both your time you guys are both amazing it's all
right yeah thanks so much man this was a lot of fun this is uh yeah it's been a lot of fun thanks
again brother yeah yeah we got a lot to learn from each other and very very cool to see everybody in
the chat too all these old names haven't seen in so long that's cool huh yeah man it's very cool
all right well thank you fellas for coming along right on
sorry guys
