Welcome to Breeder City, where we explore the history of a clandestine seed through
the eyes of the folks who live here.
I'm Matthew, owner of Riot Seeds.
I'll occasionally be joined by my co-host, NachoDog, breeder and grower for many seed
episodes.
Welcome to the Underground.
This is Crybaby from Crybaby Organics.
We're going to be going over terpenes in his terpene kit today.
I went over just kind of in detail what was in it, but if you want to go over it again
in detail where you want to illustrate it, probably would be better.
Like, do you want me to go through it like step by step, what's all in it?
Or like I can do the individual compounds or I can just kind of cover the groups.
It doesn't matter.
We got all the time in the world, man.
However you want to do it.
Okay.
Well, as far as what's in the kit, the general groups are terpenoids, which covers terpenes
and terpenoids.
A group that covers ketones, aldehydes, and phenolic compounds.
A group that covers esters and lactones.
All lactones are actually esters.
That's the one.
There you go.
And the red, which generally is just a variety of other aromatic compounds, whether that's
like pyrazines, aromatic alcohol, some of those nasty acids we've talked about.
That's all in the red section.
But as far as like the terpenoid section, the first 30 are generally what you see on
most testing panels.
The top 30 that you might see from a steep hill or at a C-Labs.
And then the following 10, green, kind of take you a little bit deeper with some of
the terpenoids that are less common.
And then the rest of the kit kind of starts to go into the nature of just scents in our
world.
Things that we're familiar with, things that are prolific in shaping, key things that we
know, whether that's chocolate, whether that's coffee, whether that's the nasty odors from
certain cheeses.
Yeah.
More of a worldly approach to it and a less cannabis-centrified approach.
Awesome.
Okay.
Where do you want to start as far as going through these and introducing people to these?
Well...
You want to start with one of the cards so we can break down that way and make it nice
and easy for people who get the kit?
Sure.
The question is, do I have a card, like a physical set of cards on me right now?
I don't, but if you want to hold up yours, I can go over them.
You got it.
I think they're going to be backwards for you though, if I hold them up.
I'll figure it out.
Okay.
Which one do you want to start with?
With the green ones?
Yeah, let's just start at green number one because it's going to have a lot of the shit
that people are really familiar with.
It's going to have your mercy, it's going to have your...
Yeah.
There we go.
Yeah.
This card right here.
So we can start with number one, which is the Alpha Pinene.
Alpha Pinene, something that comes up quite regularly.
Am I supposed to smell this or is it dangerous to smell these?
Oh, it's not dangerous to smell any of them.
Okay.
I wanted to make sure I wasn't going to like, give myself a headache.
It's not pleasant to smell all of them, but it's not dangerous to smell any of them.
Do I remove the plastic thing in here?
Yeah, yeah.
That's the stopper.
That's how it doesn't leak in transit.
Okay, cool.
I want to make sure I do it without splashing it because I'm an idiot.
There we go.
Well, if you do splash it, that one's not so dangerous.
Okay, Pinene.
Yeah.
Yes.
Alpha Pinene, that makes sense.
All the sense in the world.
It's fucking Pinene, right man?
Yeah.
Foresty.
It reminds me of something very specific that's not pine.
Almost like Christmasy, but not pine.
I don't know.
It's weird.
Bren, get in here.
Well, Alpha Pinene is actually one of the key, you know, odor compounds in a lot of
things beyond just pines.
But, obviously, it was named for its prolific appearance and tons of pines in huge amounts.
But, at the same time, I mean, all the terpinenes were as well.
So...
What other stuff is it well known for being in?
It says pine, turpentine trees, rosemary, cypress, juniper, frankincense, cumin, coriander,
mint, basil, hops, and orange.
Yep.
I guess one of the really big ones is always going to be frankincense.
Because, you know, beneath the frankincense specific compounds that are really, you know,
endemic to frankincense, to boswellia, the whole, you know, genus alone, it's really
a molding factor for endless species of frankincense.
You smell that, you smell the limonene, and then you smell the incensey compounds, which
are actually some rare diterpenes.
Diterpenes called incensal, and then there's an acetate ester form called incensal acetate.
That's what gives it the real incensey smell.
But the backbone, when you break up a big rock of frankincense, you get a lot of that
alpha pinene.
And it's something that a lot of people really like from frankincense.
It gives them that experience.
I can smell it.
Yeah, you can't smell it without the stubborn in it.
Here we go.
Bryn, what do you smell?
It smells good.
It's deeper than Christmas tree.
It's deeper.
Yeah.
It's heavier.
It smells foresty.
Yeah.
That's the best way I can say it.
Like a mixture of everything.
But there's earthy in it too.
Yeah.
Like dirt.
It smells good.
Like mosses.
Okay, let's go to number two, beta pinene.
Beta pinene.
Another...
Constitutional isomer of pinene, just like alpha pinene.
Okay.
A little bit softer of a scent, in my opinion.
I think that there is a more, almost like a camphor-y lift to alpha pinene,
and maybe a little mint in there too.
Maybe a little mint in there.
And beta pinene's a lot more subdued.
Softer.
It's still going to have that trademark pine scent, but it is more subdued.
I'm trying to be so careful with these plugs.
Don't you spill that.
Oh, interesting.
Yeah, I do smell some of the mint.
Definitely smell it.
I see a comment,
can one of you Cali boys send me some Pliny?
I have not had a bottle of Pliny in fucking years now.
I am so sorry.
What do you smell, Brian?
Kris Kringle's Nutsack.
Kris Kringle's Nutsack.
Kris Kringle's Nutsack.
Okay.
That is beta pinene.
Okay.
And this is commonly found in pine, turpentine trees, rosemary, ginseng, cypress, juniper.
A lot of the same stuff then, yeah?
Yeah.
A lot of times with closely related constitutional isomers,
like your alpha and beta pinene, like your alpha, delta, and gamma turpine,
a lot of times they occur within the same, as someone might expect.
Sometimes they don't.
Sometimes a plant might have an abundance of one and almost none,
or actually none of the other.
But a lot of times you see these isomers appear together.
And of course you see products of oxidation from them appear with them as well.
Like, you know, appears with linoleu oxide,
cariophylline appears with cariophylline oxide.
But yeah.
Okay.
You'll see a lot of them in the same stuff.
A lot of related things are found in the same natural sources.
Now, as we go through these, I saw, you know,
someone asked can you talk about the specific effects it has on humans?
Like, is it good for pain memory?
For each one, like, is there even science exactly proving any of that yet?
So with some things, especially when it has to do with cancer,
organizations like Sloan Kettering, Mayo Clinic, obviously, you know,
some studies and facilities in Asia that kind of join Eastern and Western medicine,
there is some credible academic research for certain things.
And then you have to even break it down further.
Okay, this is credible research.
This is done right.
But is this applicable in any real world scenario?
Because a lot of times we're kind of guessing with this shit.
And obviously since physiological responses to any compound can, you know,
vary greatly from person to person,
I am really just like 100% hesitant all of the time to say,
this will affect you this way.
Yeah.
Obviously, there's some anecdote, you know,
if nine out of 10 people who smoke terpeneline dominant strain all say,
oh, yeah, the tealine shit makes me all giddy.
And it makes me want to work.
You can't discredit that.
But I'm not personally going to ever ascribe any sort of physiological effect
or medical use to it just because I'm not a doctor
and a lot of the research is shaky.
We're still using the aromatherapy anecdote to describe what things do.
You know, someone will be like, oh yeah, for the past 200 years,
people have said that, you know, putting this essential oil on you is calm.
So calming.
So someone identifies the main compound from it and says, okay,
that has that calming effect.
Yeah.
And not only would that be variable for a number of reasons from chemical
composition, what these compounds actually are broken down to, you know,
personal, you know,
just you being you and you having your own issues from health and mental
health. I just, I try not to.
There's tons of research for people who want to look into that.
And I highly suggest they kind of get an idea of what's actually applicable
in a real sense versus, you know, someone saying, oh,
I've seen this dude, this in a Petri dish, fucking, you know,
whatever, you know, I've seen these in marker responses.
I don't, I don't want to do that.
There's a lot of people who feel comfortable with it and they should do it.
Yeah. Yeah. That's what I figured. I mean, it's just like,
in a lot of these compounds, they,
they say it does a certain thing because of aromatherapy,
but aromatherapy isn't smoking and inhaling. You know what I mean?
Like it's really hard to pass all this over.
And with all the brain chemistries, people don't take into account,
you know, like what if they're taking X pill or Y pill and, you know,
doing this, that changes everything. It changes your brain chemistry.
Yeah. You know, I posted something on my Instagram not too long ago about like,
I guess how you would actually approach these kinds of things.
And they basically locked a rat in a fucking, you know, case, you know,
pumped in rare agarwood smoke,
identifying any sort of antagonistic compounds for serotonin within that
smoke. And then they measured, you know, the serum serotonin levels of these rats.
So, you know, there's studies like that where they can say, Oh,
exposure to the smoke measurably increases serotonin in this animal.
And that's, you know, less disputable than,
or at least more viable than lavender oil makes you calm.
So a little bit for sure. Yeah. So it's all,
it's all with that. And I just, I try to avoid the like fake doctor shit.
You know what I mean?
So many people want to fucking sell you their lines,
want to sell you their shit under the guise that this will do this.
But I mean, it doesn't really work like that now, does it?
If it worked, all of the people who are making custom blends for these pens and
shit,
their pens wouldn't be working exactly the same with the same effects on people,
despite their broad range of terpenes as base materials to make them.
Yeah. It's a little deeper than that.
And if we make it there tonight, we can start talking like kind of unraveling.
Why? Why should it work the same?
But I guess let's keep going with some of the...
One of the ones I've been talking about the past few days,
beta-mercine.
This one.
Oh, that's wild.
It's an interesting smell, right? Not what you would expect.
No, no.
Like I immediately was expecting to smell like berry because that's what I'm
associating with in my head. Like this blueberry I know tests,
it falls into the mercine predominantly.
This is like, I can smell berry in there, but I smell so many other things.
Yeah. It's a real complex one.
And you can smell broken elements of so many different things because mercine
isn't so many things. Like you can smell the broken elements of a mango.
It doesn't smell like mango.
You can smell the mango, how that contributes to the scent of mango.
Oh my God.
It's fun, right? But, you know, people are constantly told this or that.
I'm not gonna, you know, I'm not gonna take any low roads tonight,
but you know,
people are told everything from mercine smells like skunk to mercine smells
like mango to these numbers of things.
And I think that one of the great disconnects is a lot of people just
haven't smelled it. And you can just put that shit, the bed instantly.
If you do, if someone says mercine smells like skunk and you smell it,
you can pretty much put that shit, the bed.
Yeah. It was one of the most unique smells. It has so many smells of it.
That is wild. I actually like there's unpleasant and there's pleasant,
but it's like, I keep wanting to smell it again.
There's sweetness and there's waxiness and there's a little spice.
Waxiness for sure. That's one of the smells. Yeah. Yeah. I can see that.
Some people almost read it as like right bordering on an anisic.
Like if anis wasn't anis.
Yeah. It's fucking weird. That is a really weird smell.
Okay. Next we have delta terpinine.
Delta terpinine, your old friend.
Yeah. That's how you say it.
Let's see what we got here. And what's this? What's this one about?
Delta terpinine is terpinoline, man.
Oh, this is terpinoline? Yeah.
Oh, my old love. Oh, there it is. Oh, my old love terpinoline.
It's a little more tropical than people think it is.
Yeah. You can smell almost a fruit hit in the background.
Yeah. There's two of the other types on fire.
And then Bryn says it smells like bike tire on fire.
And I can almost see some of that in the front end. Yeah.
I can appreciate that, too. There's actually two more terpinine isomers in the kit.
One is more tropical. Remember when I've always been like, no, there's this tropical tea leaf.
Yeah. That one's in the kit. And then where is that one?
That is in the 30s.
Sorry, man. I've gone through so many. It's all right. Let me see if I can find it.
34 and 35 are gamma and alpha terpinine.
Let's see. 30s is going to be this card.
This kit is so sick.
Thank you, Bryn.
Terpinine. So 34 is gamma terpinine and then 35 is alpha terpinine,
which I'm going to try those so we can stay in the terpinoline category real quick.
Yeah. And that's exciting.
That's another set of compounds that appear in nature together frequently.
A lot of citrus fruits, a lot of conifers.
You'll see, you know, one of them dominantly in the profile.
That one is more like gas to me.
I smell rubber. It's like new like rain boots.
Yeah. New rain boots.
Yeah, rubbery, but I can smell it. That's a weird one.
Yeah.
That is a fucking weird one.
Doesn't matter from here, man.
Some people haven't seen what this is and they've come in. Maybe hold it up so they can see.
Oh, yeah. For the people that have come in late, this is what we're looking at.
Crybaby's terpinoline kit. Would you call it a terpinoline kit? What would you call it?
I just call it a sun exploration kit because
once you get out of the green group, it's not terpinoids anymore.
Yeah, that's what I was just thinking. So maybe calling it a terpine kit isn't exactly accurate.
I laid it out so that anything that you could call a terp stays in the green category.
Yeah.
And then everything else is not. And I've talked about in the past that there are monoterpenic esters, monoterpenic alcohols,
a variety of things like that.
But if it's not in the green, it's not monoresusquiterpenic at all.
So is the 35, the alpha terpinoline, is that the one that is the tropical one?
Yeah.
Okay. Yeah, I get it. I get it. That reminds me, reminds me a little bit of amnesia haze.
Yeah.
It smells like the shit that knocks chloroform out.
Chloroform? When you knock people out with it? Do you get that a lot?
That's new, but no one's wrong. The way people assess that isn't wrong.
Sometimes I don't agree with it, and sometimes it's kind of funny, but it's never wrong.
Yeah, exactly. So next is going to be limonene.
Lil' limonene?
Yep. Am I just going to smell lemon or is it more complex than that? It probably is, huh?
I honestly think it's really linear. For me, it's that really gnarly, cleaner smell.
Yep.
Like orange glow, remember when they were pumping those orange products?
Yeah, it's all, they're all limening to greasers. So I mean, it's no surprise that they smell like it.
The other limonene, the one that's really not so common in nature is also there.
Is what?
Sorry, I'm trying to look in the kit and I look off screen and shit.
The other limonene, the one that doesn't occur so frequently in nature, is also in there.
And I believe it's like 30...
33.
33? Okay.
Yeah, L-limonene.
This could be, if we put different things in this, this could be like a battleship.
Like it's synced.
Synced to Turk battleships?
I see someone mentioned that the connection with smell and memory is really strong.
Oh yeah.
Oh, I like that one.
Scent affects your whole limbic system. It's not, you know, just the olfactory sensory neurons that are sending direct things to your brain.
You're hitting memory, you're hitting emotional states, the whole works.
Which is one of the reasons that people craft such personal scent encyclopedias in their own head.
Their metrics, their ideas of what things smell like are often far beyond just like critical analysis.
It smells like this.
Which can, you know, draw their shins.
One of the reasons that people smell things so different.
Their idea of what this smells like is very...
Memories and yeah.
Started from a different place.
That's a weird.
The alimony is the most common.
Yeah.
That or myrcene.
I mean, those are the ones you see it all the time.
We are on linolool.
Ah, one of my old favorites.
That's a weird one.
So how does that smell to you?
Some people think it smells like lavender.
Some people think it smells like fruity pebbles.
Like Froot Loops cereal.
I see both.
Right in the middle.
Something uses that exactly.
I get it right down the middle.
So that was weird.
I couldn't find before you said that though.
I couldn't find a word to even describe it.
But once you said that like it was like, okay, I smelled the lavender and I smelled fruity pebbles.
It's fun when you kind of like get the prompts for both.
But yeah.
It's a strange one because a lot of natural linolool is kind of a balance of isomers.
It's a stringent.
It goes really, really far in one direction towards the other.
And the really big examples of it going all the way in opposite directions is rosewood.
I don't know if you've ever smelled rosewood.
It smells a lot like what you just smelled.
Okay.
It smells a lot like number six.
And then the other side is the way that coriander and cilantro smell.
Something that people can't automatically place as a linolool voter, but it is.
And it's a very strong one.
So that kind of spicy floral woody, that's the other side of linolool's isomers that show up naturally.
I'm opening up alpha humulene.
So this is hops, right?
Yeah.
It's a faint smell.
It's not a strong smell.
I like that smell though.
I almost smell cinnamon too or something weird in it.
Clove?
Clove.
Clove.
I smell clove.
It's interesting you say that because although I don't get that personally, do you see what the next in the kit is?
Number eight?
Yeah, beta caropheline.
Yeah, so you know that alpha humulene is alpha caropheline.
Yeah.
Oh, is it?
Yeah.
So it's surprising to see people, but it's not a rare occurrence to see people kind of get almost a little piece of what something could become or would be in a different lifetime because beta cari has the clove, has the black pepper.
Interesting.
Yeah, pepper.
Smell them together.
You can smell how far and how close they really are.
So this one is the beta caropheline.
That is interesting.
That is really complex again.
It is.
That one's...
That smells like a certain liquor.
Like a certain liquor?
Yeah, something I used to...
I could smell something boozy in it, sure.
Yeah.
I like it.
Yeah.
People that don't tend to like cilantro smell soap.
Yeah, Brynn.
That kind of...
Is that right?
I got a carrot in there.
You got a carrot?
At the end of it, yeah.
Okay.
Beta osamine.
Beta osamine.
Give it a try.
Okay.
It's a pleasant one.
It's not a bad one.
You'll like it.
Yeah, it's kind of like Sambuca.
That thing just shot away.
Yeah, I don't smell much.
That's like blackjack gum.
Clove?
Isn't blackjack gum clove?
Blackjack gum.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Blackjack?
Blackjack?
Blackjack licorice, I think.
But it might have something in it.
I don't know.
That's a hard one for me.
That's one of those smells that I don't really smell.
So I'm not really good at picking it up.
Everyone has them.
Whether they know it or not, everyone.
Yeah.
I saw a question that I thought I could answer really quick.
Sure.
Go ahead.
Deal with alpha versus beta in categorization.
Alpha and beta, for example, pine, you know, are something called constitutional isomers.
And that means that they don't have all of the same bonds, but they have all of the same
constitutional elements.
So they're basically, you know, the two pieces of pining.
Pining exists in isomeric forms, alpha, beta, and actually delta as well, but it's super
rare in nature and you almost only ever see it synthesized in a lab.
But yeah, they're actually different compounds.
And you, you know, if you look at something as far as like, oh, a constitutional isomer,
it's the same compound, but it's really not because at the same time, every monoterapine
is a constitutional isomer.
They're all carbon 10, hydrogen 16.
They're all the same shit.
But in those cases, those are specified.
If you look at the actual like formulas and, you know, structures and information, you'll
notice that they are in fact different, not massively different, but...
But it doesn't take a massive difference to be totally different in smell, right?
It doesn't.
In fact, it takes even less of a difference than that.
So within these constitutional isomers, and I know I've touched on this on IG and it's
a little bit flattering, but you have a concept called chirality.
And basically, besides these compounds that we kind of view as individual things, not
only have constitutional isomers, but those constitutional isomers can also be two pieces
that are, you know, viewed or represented as one.
Like, imagine like, this is alpha-pining, right?
Yeah.
So it's really this, and here's plus alpha-pining and minus alpha-pining.
Okay.
Both of these things can have completely different smells across a range of compounds, not just
the pinings.
They can have completely different smells.
They can have completely different odor detection thresholds and impact, which make them widely
different experiences on top.
Yeah.
And the variability of these things appearing in nature is massive.
I was just reading some fucking chirality thing about trees in the Amazon, and it was
basically listing all of the things where they had seen a marked change in the isomers
that make up things like, specifically was alpha-pining.
They were seeing variations at different altitudes.
They were seeing variations at different temperatures, different times a year.
They were seeing complete reversal of these things, and that's not a big deal when, as
far as scent goes, for things that all of the pieces smell the same, but when you deal
with something where the pieces smell radically different, you're talking about the same plant,
the exact same plant producing two radically different versions of a compound throughout
its life based on a number of variables.
You can't even promise that the same plant will produce the same version of any of these
compounds in different environments at different times a year under different stressors, which
could be one of the reasons that we see such huge variation in fucking the odors of clones
between two people running them.
It could literally, you know, both of these fucking, you know, myrcene dominant, I shouldn't
use that as a bad example, but these pining dominant fucking, you know, clones are producing
different versions of alpha-pining in these environments.
That can, like I said, sometimes it's not a big change.
Sometimes it's a radical fucking change.
You know, 10 times more easily detected, you know, fucking completely different in odor.
It's just, and there's some big fucking changes.
Is there such thing as terpenes never occurring with each other in cannabis?
Like ones that just for whatever reason can't bond to the same plant?
Or do we know about anything like that?
I don't personally.
Cannabis have a really, really incredible propensity for showing that it can produce
just about fucking anything.
Cannabis produces shit that like within the past hundred years, we were 100% convinced
was endemic to one species.
Nothing else produces it.
Not even a fucking option.
You know, a hundred years ago, we thought that nothing could produce Santalon, Santalene
at all.
Only Sandalwood.
Because that's what makes Sandalwood.
And, you know, 10 years ago, I saw fucking DNA running tests with labs that, you know,
were never designed for cannabis.
So they had these big extensive panels for testing floral fucking products and shit.
They were testing with Santalene.
You know, we all kind of knew that there was something there because two compounds exclusively
are responsible for that odor, an odor which we know from cannabis.
But seeing that, seeing cannabis produce things like guile and guine, which are, you know,
incredibly rare in nature and basically limited to four or five other things.
And these be such distinct and remarkable odors, like the odor of a fucking creeper
or something.
I'm just, I'm not sure other than compounds that would have to be like, for instance,
this compound exists in cannabis because of a lack of or dysfunction at this other, of
this other synthase pathway.
Seeing that unless the compound exists, because something else can't exist.
And as a product of that, I don't see a reason why, you know, just about anything couldn't
come up together.
That makes sense.
Sorry, I'm trying to look at questions.
Where are we at?
I never even heard of Fenchol.
Yeah, that's a fucking monotropentic alcohol.
Pretty gnarly.
So something that I should bring up if I can, is I should bring up the PDF that went with
the kit.
So you know the concentration of what you're smelling, because these aren't pure compounds.
And that's kind of one of the most important things that people don't talk about is the
variation of impact between compounds.
I am at the computer, so I should be able to pull this up.
Oh, that's weird.
Yeah, I don't know what that, that's weird.
It's another terp.
Hospital?
Yeah.
It's not a pleasant one.
I don't think that's pleasant at all.
No, it's not super pleasant, but it's not like foul to me.
It's not offensive, I should say.
So here, I'll put it in, I'll start to put in perspective for you.
That is two and a half percent concentration.
So it's a very mild, mild, mild scent of it.
Yeah.
And you know, for a reasonable comparison, the beta-osamine you just smelled was 25%,
and the beta-caryophyllene you just smelled was 50.
Okay.
So yeah, so your, yeah, variable impact is really important.
And just impact in general, it's not something that people talk about that much.
And it's one of the shortcomings of testing because, you know, for testing to actually
be effective as, you know, some way to imagine organoleptic qualities of what you're looking
at, they would all have to be the exact same strength, right?
Yeah.
Because if we look at it on peaks and say, oh, this odor compound that is found at 10%
in the test, compared to this one that's found at, you know, 0.1%.
And in reality, that compound at 0.1% is magnitude stronger odor-wise than the one
found at 10.
You start to realize that there are more limitations about actually kind of interpreting a test
as far as organoleptic qualities.
There's lots of great ways to interpret tests for purposes.
But as far as saying, I'm going to look at the top compounds found on this test, especially
when Canvas panels are like 30 things and they don't find things that you're not looking
for, it's really hard to guess.
And that was one of my big axes to grind when I started seeing people, you know, show the
little pictures and tell you what this thing was going to smell like based on testing.
And it was basically just some sort of odor descriptor for the top five things on the
test.
But if there's something lurking, you know, that's way stronger as far as impact, it's
probably what you're going to smell first.
I mean, half the shit that we talk about, you know, skunky shit, gas shit, I mean, it's
all very, very small amounts of it found.
And I mean, some of it's small to the point that, you know, it takes specialized machines,
specialized testing equipment to even find it.
That's, you know, everyone was talking about the whole like, oh, VSCs and cannabis.
And I'm thinking to myself, well, where's the application of that for the normal person
when most labs, you know, can't dole out another fucking hundred million dollars to
buy them, you know, to buy the equipment so they can prep and run all this shit.
And who wants to pay for those panels that are five, six times as much as it anyway.
So yeah, you know, as we go through this, you know, you're getting pretty close to I
guess like midway through the most common, you know, things found on tests, as a matter
of fact, all of them found on some tests.
I mean, by now it should be becoming more clear that a lot of what we smell, especially
what we desire in cannabis is not covered by mono and sesquiterpenes and terpenoids
that we see on tests, you know.
Terpenes in general were named, you know, for a specific reason.
I mean, there's always arguments about etymology and first use, but they were made to designate
things that came out of pines and shit, you know.
Things from turpentine, that was the original, you know, idea of it, arguably the original
idea of it.
So as far as mono and sesquiterpenes, especially ones we know in cannabis, the range is pretty
limited.
I mean, everything you've smelled is what, some sort of citrus, some sort of terpenic,
some sort of spicy, some odd variation on it.
And then you have things like myrcene, which are their own monster, but you really kind
of have to start branching out past what we're familiar with to kind of get the full picture,
whether that's, you know, understanding that some of these things are massively stronger
in scent than others, you know, and that's, it's not a bad thing though.
It's kind of something you need to do to come to terms with, you know, what you have, where
you're going, what you're doing.
I would, you know, every once in a while I talk about, you know, fucking with the nightcap,
right?
Yeah, real cool, you know, record holder, all that shit.
It's cool.
But some people see that test result and they think, oh, that's gotta be the loudest fucking
thing ever, right?
You know, 8% terpene is the loudest thing fucking ever, but it's not.
And it won't be because as you know, you smelled pining, you just smell both the pinings
and that's what, you know, it's like 6% of that, 5 or 6% of that profile.
One percent of, you know, just the way you might interpret it, I mean, one percent of
that fenchol you just smells stronger than fucking 5% of that pining and not even kind
of like massively.
What's cool about that cut is it's pining dominant, not that it's some huge numbers
because as much as we don't want to, you know, admit it because it's kind of depressing that
every test we tried to put together to get a better handle of this can be misleading.
And I'm not saying that it is, you know, if you see something that's super high limonene,
I mean, citrus scents kind of walk on everything.
You can smell citrus through onion, you can smell citrus through garlic, you can smell
it through skunk.
So if you see something that's pining super high in limonene, you probably will have a
good amount of citrus.
But when you have something like myrcene, you just smell that.
I mean, imagine how easy it is for that to get lost in a composition.
Like if we're stacking that with tealine and citrus scents and spicy shit, you would lose
the individual nuance of myrcene pretty fast.
So when I see a huge, you know, myrcene test, I'm not thinking, oh yeah, that smells like
that waxy, spicy, sweet thing.
I'm thinking, okay, how is that putting all together with this?
Yeah.
It makes sense.
And it says, so it sounds like high percentage also is no correlation to increased effect
as well.
Once again-
And we don't know that some even have any effect.
You know what I mean?
Like some of them may have no central nervous system effects.
Some may have a lot.
It gets worse than that.
So we don't talk about in cannabis, but back on the chirality conversation.
Yeah.
So where that kind of transitions into effect and is really important is in pharmaceuticals.
And in pharmaceuticals, they're often looking for something called enantiopure drugs.
This is because, remember I was talking about all of the different, you know, variables
that could lead to this, you know, this version of linalool versus that version of linalool.
On top of having different odors, they can also have extremely different physiological
effects.
And we know this really well from pharmaceuticals.
Sometimes an enantiopure drug, one that is just one enantiomer of it, you know, singular
thing works great, lowers, you know, this bad thing, raises this good thing.
Whereas the other half, the other part of the hand actually can be, you know, medically
dangerous or just have no effect at all.
And that's, you know, kind of one of the things that we should consider when we talk about,
you know, compounds and cannabis having an effect because we have so little actual research
on this from the medical sphere.
You know, one of these things that we favor or, you know, with an end have great effects
from a different version of that that might be appearing unbeknownst to us could be having
the opposite effect, a negative effect or no effect at all.
Yeah.
And is that is what you're describing, like cannabis derived terpenes and other thing
derived terpenes, where it's derived from, does that make a difference too?
As far as like the composition with stereolactam, it absolutely does.
It can, you know, you'll see huge variations between, you know, completely different plants.
You might see huge variations of different species.
You might see huge variations due to like I was talking about environment and a number
of those kinds of consequences as well.
But there is no like hard and fast rule about it.
You know, it's kind of what comes from the plant, you know, and of course, there are
some exceptions.
But mostly exceptions that we've considered over time, we've actually eliminated as wrong.
One of the things that we believed in the past was a citrus odor compound called Citral
was like the gold standard for being a natural race mate, which means that in all examples
of Citral, the two enantiomers were equal, like 50-50.
So as far as like if something was a physiological effect, all Citral would have the same physiological
effect because it's all the same Citral.
But we came to find out that that's not true.
And we've even found, you know, balances, you know, as disproportionate as like 70-30,
80-20.
So the old adage about, you know, race mates not really existing in nature does seem to
be true, which basically means that any version of any of these compounds from any different
plant, from a different grow environment might be different from odor to effect to
any of it.
And without being able to actually run the kind of tests necessary to see what we're
looking at and then correlate those things to actual physiological effect, I mean, we'd
just be shooting in the fucking dark.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, I guess I mean, it makes sense too, because like I always talk about with breeding,
when people ask me if a male always does this or a female always does that or a certain
strain always does this, there's just no way to quantify that.
You can't ever say anything so direct and solid like that.
Honestly, man, that shit like that doesn't really have a place.
And you see the people that you would expect to implement it.
If you see someone speaking in absolutes while selling, you know, people cannabis seeds or
selling people clones.
I mean, they're doing it for one reason.
And we know that reason.
And it's not really on the up and up.
It's about if you're if you're if you can promise someone something over and over and
you've eliminated any personal variables from them and their life and their growth, you're
you're just kind of bullshit.
Yeah, by being fucking Tom Hill and handing someone deep chunk and being like, there's
a good chance this guy come out like this motherfucker.
I mean, you're not getting you know, much in that especially with these modern Polly's
and shit.
What you smelling bro?
I'm smelling Alpha-Biz-a-Blo-lo-lo-lo-lo-lo.
Oh, something else.
I have zero, zero scent here.
I can't smell it.
It's one of the ones I can't smell.
You know, and that really does have a very faint odor.
If you can get anything off of it, you're going to get the thing that most people have
kind of linked in their brain to a Zabala, which is chamomile.
If you can get anything, it's going to be like a faint chamomile tea.
It's not strong at purity.
It's not strong diluted.
It's just not strong in general.
That makes sense.
I can't smell chamomile tea whenever we make it.
I can't smell it.
It's one of those things I can't smell.
All right, let's see.
Alpha phalandrine?
Yeah.
And this is a menthane monoterpenoids?
Yeah, so there's actually a lot of...
I don't want this to be super chemistry-y, but there's a lot of menthane monoterpenoids.
They're all based on the paramenthane skeleton, and they include the majority of the monoterpenes
and monoterpenoids that have kind of a terpenic odor, even including limonene.
So yeah, there's a lot of...
I smell something.
I can't place it, though, but I do smell something.
It kind of smells like the other terpenic compound.
It does smell familiar to something I smelled earlier.
Let's see.
After that would be delta-3-carene?
Yeah, delta-3-carene.
Let's see.
Oh, that's weird, but there's almost a foul scent in there.
What is that?
Juniper, fir, basil, bell pepper?
Oh, maybe bell pepper?
Bell pepper?
No, no, that's not what I'm smelling.
Bell pepper is a special odor.
We can get into that a little later if you want.
Okay.
All right, I can just give you...
Yeah, right now.
I can give you the bullshit now.
Bell pepper is actually driven by a pyrazine, of all things.
Not only is it driven by a pyrazine, it's driven by...
My God, it has to be within the top five most odorous compounds on planet Earth.
A great example of that is the fucking mine gas, hydrogen sulfide, the thing that basically
fucking wrecks people.
Stuff that smells like rotten eggs?
Yeah.
So, hydrogen sulfide, I believe, has an odor detection threshold of like 10 parts per trillion.
Oh, wow.
Which is super fucking low.
Yeah, it doesn't take much.
I think it's 2-methoxyl pyrazine.
I might be wrong, but I think it's 2-methoxyl pyrazine.
This is the green bell pepper pyrazine.
Below one part per trillion, it can be detected.
Oh, wow.
Literally one of the loudest fucking compounds on planet Earth.
But it exists in so many things in such tiny, tiny amounts that, I mean, it's kind of a
wonder we ever found these things to begin with.
The fact that we even were able to figure this out, because if you look at old GCMS
analysis, when they were figuring a lot of this shit out, it'll be like 10, 20 things
and a huge list of unknown, unidentified, but they know some shit about it.
It'll be like unidentified monotarpin, unidentified ester, unidentified fatty acid, but they
had no fucking clue what this was.
It must have been shocking because it was showing up on the newest and latest machines
that can now test for much smaller things and no fucking idea what any of this shit was.
Always get pyrazine and their shitty cab stuff.
One of the ones that I'm talking about that's super fucking strong is what puts that shitty,
grassy, green, kind of gnarly garbage on the cab.
That's like, oh, I can't remember all the names of everything these days, man.
That one's like isobutyl methyl pyrazine or some shit.
It's one of them, man.
Yeah, my brain doesn't work well enough to fucking memorize all this shit.
I can do strains, even I'm losing my fucking brain for that too.
Camphene?
Camphene?
Camphene is excluded from the kit just because I thought it was getting redundant with all
the similar odors.
Just have a little placeholder bottle.
Okay.
Sabanine.
Sabanine.
Another terpenic family odor, another one that people consider really pleasant, really
enjoyable, contributes to a lot of things.
It's a little spicy.
It actually...
Oh, I like that.
Sabanine is what puts a lot of that like spicy, kind of earthy edge with that kind of terpenic
on nutmeg and mace.
I almost smell cherry in there.
Do you?
That's cool.
Yeah, heavy.
Nice.
Weird.
So something you might want to do is, do you have any strips from...
Yes, yeah.
You might, I mean, you honestly might want to start dunking them because a lot of what
you're going to get is from interaction with air, so you might just want to dip and kind
of...
That makes sense.
Okay, let's try that.
Where's the strips at?
They're right here.
What is the nastiest halitosis smell that ChemD can have?
Well, a lot of bacterial odors or things that replicate bacterial odors, whether that's
infection, whether that's tonsil stones, fucking whatever, come from a group of compounds called
aromatic amines, polyamines, and they're just gross shit.
A lot of us are familiar with them from their formation as bacteria exists and breaks down
a dead animal or bacterial pockets like the ones in the back of your throat with tonsil
stones that cause shit like halitosis.
And putrescine and cadaverine, stuff like that?
Those are some of the gnarliest ones, but at the same time, we know that they exist
in strange places all the time.
We've talked about fucking the cowry pear smelling like fucking old jizz because of
all that spermidine it got.
Oh yeah, we grew up with those running down our streets in an area called Silver Creek,
and we called them the cum trees because they just smelled like fucking someone blew loads
all over the street.
Some of those really, really big magnolia, like the huge magnolia grandiflora will smell
that way too, especially once they've dropped a bunch of flowers onto the ground.
It's ugh.
But you smell it.
When you live near them, you smell it.
That's another compound in that.
Cadaverine, putrescine, spermidine, it's all in that category of disgusting shit.
Yeah.
That was funny.
Jizz plants, cum trees, everyone calls them the same shit, man.
Yeah, I didn't even know if anybody knew what I was talking about.
Oh yeah, they use those so widely in fucking city planning because they're cheap.
They get big, they're easy to grow, and they're all pretty and white and shit, right?
They smell like fucking semen.
All over the South, all over the Midwest, all over all of those pre-developed or pre-planned
developed neighborhoods just reeking of an old fucking cum rat.
All right, so we got, let's do menthol.
Is that in there?
Yeah, I wouldn't smell that one directly just because it is crystalline and I don't know
if it got kind of, you know, roughed up and I don't want you to accidentally inhale powder.
Yeah, just want some menthol?
Yeah.
Won't be the worst shit that's been up my nose, I'll tell you what.
All right, we got, let's do narrow lidol.
Okay, so narrow lidol is interesting.
People talk about a lot because they see it on cannabis testing, right?
It's odorless.
I mean, basically odorless.
Yeah, I don't smell anything.
So it's not actually used for its scent in like scent applications.
It's actually used as a fix.
And what a fixative does is it makes other scents last longer in a perfume.
Oh, yeah.
Interesting.
So I don't know how that might, I don't know how that would translate to like aroma compounds
contained within, you know, the wax cuticle of a trichomed.
Like I don't, but as far as what it's used for in like conventional perfuming and scent
applications, it makes shit last.
That odorless kind of maybe slightly woody, I feel like it might smell like the faintest
bit like, remember the copper tone was called like water babies, the pink bottle?
Yeah, like the 80s and shit.
I feel like it smells faintly like that, like the most faint possible version, but generally
most people consider it odorless.
I consider it odorless.
Every perfumer I know does as well.
And we just use it to make things last longer.
You know, I was watching, when me and Brynn first got together, I made her watch this
movie called Perfume.
Have we talked about it before?
Yeah, I love that movie.
Yeah, I fucking love that movie.
We were watching it again the other night.
It's one of the most amazing fucking like, it's not quite a horror, but it's it is it's
real good.
I like that.
Carvacrol?
Yeah, Carvacrol.
Okay, so that is a interesting compound.
That is the character impact compound for oregano.
But on top of that, it's basically all that's in oregano.
I've seen tests of steam distillations on oregano that were like 98.5%, 99%.
So that's basically concentrated oregano odor.
Okay, let's see.
I see someone says like Ambroxan or Super Iso-E.
Talk about the ocean, man.
We doing a little trip to the ocean with the Super Iso-E and the Ambroxan?
Yeah.
Yeah.
The stopper, where'd you go, motherfucker?
There it is.
Let's see.
What's the next one?
It's Parasiamine?
Goosefoot?
What the hell is a goosefoot?
I tried to make it fun with some of the random stuff in there that, you know, one knows or
maybe would inspire.
There's a lot of like little shit on there that I was hoping would inspire someone to
like go online and like do a little Google, like, yeah, or a big fucking wrench in like
the class, like, basically, you know, put it in like the weirdest possible class where
it's still academically accurate and be like, oh, yeah, that's what it is.
Don't know what those are.
Look for it.
I can kind of smell that.
It's very light.
That's interesting, but I can't quite place it.
I would like my first impression would be gas.
I get a lot of gas from things, but not gas necessarily, but a component to gas.
Yeah, no, I get it.
Something gassy, but not necessarily like heavy benzene, like actual.
Yes, exactly.
Oh, Cedarine.
Oh, yeah.
I love cedar, but I don't know.
I've had concentrated like cedar oil and it did not smell very good.
So we'll see.
So I think that Cedarine has a nicer odor than Cedarol, which is a big compositional
element of cedar oil.
This is from fractions from Virginia cedar wood.
So it's pretty true to a cedar experience, but still smells incomplete.
I love that.
But it doesn't smell gnarly.
It doesn't have that like low point of Atlas or Texas cedar.
It's very bright and it's enjoyable.
Yeah, that's enjoyable.
I like that.
That's the smell of cedar that I like, like old cedar wood chest.
See we got um, Farnesine.
Farnesine.
We can we can break that one down after you smell.
What do you think that smells like?
Okay, I'm not I didn't look at what it said it smells like so we can see.
I have to take these things off so careful.
I'm such a klutz.
All right.
Here we go.
I can't smell anything yet.
Hold on.
I caught something.
Just got it.
I can't.
It's soft.
It's super soft.
Yeah, I can't place it.
So, um, Farnesine is interesting.
Yeah, it's not one thing.
And it's not, you know, what we were talking about earlier with, um.
You know, chiral variations, it's actually seven isomers that we kind of look at as one
thing and we just test for them in general.
Yeah.
But there's a problem because Farnesine kind of has entered the cannabis myth sphere.
And the one that I hear frequently is its association with Apple.
Yeah.
That shit smells nothing like an apple.
But I don't get Apple.
But there is a reason that people think that because apples were evaluated with GCMS and
it was found, but it wasn't found in the apple flesh.
It was found in the apple peel.
The slight waxiness that you might smell there is the waxiness of a green apple peel.
The other thing that people say is, oh, it smells like gardenia.
Because I think that Wikipedia says that it smells like gardenia.
And to me, it does a very, very slight amount.
I smell floral would be the closest I could even get.
Yeah. And but there's a problem out of these seven Farnesine isomers.
Yeah. One that's responsible for all of its pretty characters for gardenia, even for
apple peel, is the one that's appears in the smallest quantities and is the most
volatile. So.
So it's gone right away.
Yeah. And I mean, that is just any level of Farnesine is just completely masked by
anything else. You know.
Our issue with even making it into something is one of the reasons that we spent 50
years trying to figure out how to make a good gardenia perfume and ended up using two
bros instead of gardenia in the end.
Oh, but that's cool because two bros have such a juicy fruit gum smell you like so
much. Yeah.
There is a perfume called Kai.
Have you smelled it before?
I don't think so.
It was the closest I've ever smelled the gardenia.
It was really good. Really good.
Is that a Hawaiian one?
You know, not.
What's that? I'm not surprised because Hawaiians are really familiar with the Tahitian
gardenia, a plant called Taier.
OK. And something about its chemical composition lends to being extracted like an
ethanol extraction, like a concrete or an absolute.
And it smells more like what people think of with gardenia than the absolute of like
a common gardenia from a garden that people would know would smell.
Those things end up smelling a lot again like two bros a lot like has that bubble gum,
that kind of juicy fruit gum, soft smell.
Yeah.
Taier is basically what people want from gardenia.
OK, this one's going to be balancing.
Ah, the good orange.
Oh, yeah, that's the orange I like.
That's the orange that we all want, but we always get fucking D-limonene.
Yeah, it's your fucking tangy that smells like fucking a mixture of like lemon G and
something else.
Yeah.
Well, rubber fucking to me, it smells like rubber tomato sauce.
It doesn't smell so. And with like a hint of orange is what it's like.
Yeah, it's I don't find the energy to be pleasant, man.
I just I really don't.
The fact that I've smoked as much of it as I have is really just a just shot of myself.
Really.
But yeah, that one seems really cool.
That's my favorite of the citrus aroma terpenes.
And for instance, like when someone what the fuck was that thing that.
Obviously, we call it orange juice, but you sped or found it or got it or whatever.
How? Yeah. Yeah. When someone says something like orange juice, but that's what I want
to fucking smell like.
I don't want to smell like orange glow cleaner because balancing kind of does have that
orange juicy smell, like the kind of wafting that would be in the kitchen after you
juice something versus the wafting that's in the kitchen after you clean the grime off
your fucking oven like.
Agent Orange from TGA, if I'm being honest with some of the more like sweet
orange, pretty orange smells that I liked, it had like the orange soda, the orange crush
type smell.
You know, I smoked the fucking Melvin with Jill.
Yeah. How'd you like it? You get a hey.
I did.
I you know what?
I didn't hate it.
And what I was surprised about with it, just like, I guess the most interesting thing
for me is because she told me while we went out prior, like when we went out and had
drinks and she was telling me about it because I had never smoked.
She's like, oh, yeah, I'll make sure I get it.
You know, and because I guess she doesn't really crop it anymore at all.
Yeah. Which is kind of a shame.
But she was telling me and I was just kind of sitting there like, yeah, you know, sure,
or whatever. She told me she's like, no, there's this rubber element to it.
And I'm sitting there like, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Tell me. Tell me more about your tangy.
Yeah. Yeah. But there there really was some like gnarly depth to it.
And I was surprised because I thought I was just going to get blasted with.
Yeah.
With some fucking Agent Orange reading, but oh, man, it was it was more complex.
And I'll say like, if the orange is right, I can fuck with it.
Orange Crush, I used to fuck with that.
Yeah. You know, things were good shit.
But most of the time, it's not what I'm getting, man.
I'm getting some fucked up orange.
What's weird is that, you know, I mean, Tangy came from the orangey velvet, the Melvin cut.
So it has the ability to do the pretty orange and it also has the ability to do that burnt
rubber tomato soup shit that I smell.
It's weird. It's all in there.
I agree with the fucking, I don't even think it was it even Tangy or was it one of the
fucking hybrids like Tangela?
So there's like a peach cut that went around Santa Cruz for a while.
I think one of the clubs, I think, uh, Canna Cruz might have won something with it.
But it was I mean, it was clearly a Tangy hybrid, but there was some like peach to it
and actually tasted pretty good.
I mean, they said better than peach rings.
And yeah, it tastes better than Tangy.
That's all that matters.
There you go. OK, here's Guayal.
Oh, Campicole.
Guayal's the campfire aroma.
That's a strange one for.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, so that's a compound that's created often from the paralysis of
wood. So when wood burns, that's actually often released.
So that really is the smell of campfire.
That's dead on. Yeah.
Yeah. And then there's another very similar smelling compound that's a phenolic
compound. And then there's an actual monoturpine versus the monoturpinec alcohol
that Guayal is as well.
So there's like quite a bit of it across the board in nature and they all have kind of
that campfirey, dark, little bit of strange sweetness on the back.
Aroma. I love that smell.
I think that's an amazing smell.
OK, I got to do something real quick.
I'm going to try to change this, unplug my mic and plug in the charger because I'm
almost dead here. So one second.
It might fuck my mic up.
I'm hoping it doesn't.
Do whatever you want, man.
Can you hear me? Yeah.
OK, so we're still good. Does it sound fucked up or different?
No. OK, good.
All right. We continue.
What's next? Citronella.
I know what citronella smells like.
Candles. Is this like that?
OK, so where are you at Citronella or?
Yes. LOL.
L.A.L. or LOL?
L.L.L.
OK, so.
Dun, dun, dun.
It smells just like the fucking candles.
It smells like definitely smells like citronella candle.
100%.
That is the main compound in the species of lemongrass that we call citronella
grass. So.
OK. And then after that is D.
Carvone.
Carvone? Yeah, D.
Carvone.
Who names this shit?
You know, a lot of the names are also kind of becoming obsolete.
The designations of Dextra and Levo,
DNL are.
Kind of considered obsolete at this point and are better.
OK, no off the chemistry lessons, but things like DNL are obsolete
and we'll probably see in the next decade, you know, those kinds of usage
for anything but sugars where they actually are appropriate.
Just kind of removed.
All of them have a better, better name.
You don't like it?
It's weird. Like I was trying to figure it out.
I was like, I smell dill and I smell something else.
And it is spearmint. I smell spearmint and dill, Denon.
Just like just those two, though.
Yeah. So.
Yeah. Wow.
That's wild.
There's a very common.
In fact, it's usually the example people use for how
two such closely related or nearly identical compounds can have such
different odors because
D-Carbon is the big part of spearmint, whereas L-Carbon is the big part of caraway.
OK. They're very I mean, they're very distinctly different aromas.
All right. We could do is eucalyptol just going to smell like eucalyptus?
Yeah. Is it different?
OK. Yeah. What that smells like.
How about citrull?
You should you should smell eucalyptol because it's.
It's found in a lot in different
just you'll see different tests, especially with it under different names,
you might see it called one a sineal instead of eucalyptol.
But those are the same compounds. Yeah.
Oh, yeah, for sure. This is totally I love that smell, though.
I love that smell.
We have a lot of like
Dr. Teal's like eucalyptus bath melt stuff because it's so nice.
And so here's citrull.
Citrull. That was what we were talking about
earlier about the thing that they once believed was actually naturally racemic.
But it's it's not.
All right. It can it can be all over the place.
That is a weird one.
It's almost like citronella, but it's not.
Yeah, it's like a brighter citronella.
I don't I don't know if that's a good way to describe a smell.
But so that citrus with some French fries.
So that citrus is actually have you ever smelled a rose that smelled
really lemony but didn't smell like citronella?
No. OK, well, I have not.
Some roses produce a fairly large amount of that.
It can be really nice to get this kind of sparkly, lemony rose.
Yeah. As opposed to, you know, your typical, you know, honey soft rose.
I I think that's a cool odor.
And then the individual components of it, citrull A and B, which
also have names, but citrull A and B
actually smell quite a bit different as well.
It's really cool to smell them and then smell citrull itself.
See here now we have citrull A.
Yeah. So that's the rose one.
Oh, that does smell more rosy. Yeah, for sure.
That's pretty.
So what's interesting, and since we've talked about, you know,
transitions between stereo isomers and how they shape different things.
So the other
one,
an antiover of that
smells like citrull A, just citrull A.
And there's a really funny anecdote about a rose breeder
who I guess was trying to work with, you know, trying to make really bold roses
odor wise. And he ended up with a bunch of roses that smelled like straight up
citrull A because along the way he was prioritizing breeding towards
super high citrull A.
And he ended up with plants that were expressing that super high citrull A
as only one stereo isomer,
the one that smells like citrull A, not rose.
So, oh, pretty fucking nasty roses, man.
Yeah, I can imagine that'd be headache roses.
But, you know, these are these kinds of is an anecdote aren't unique to rose
breeding. And in fact, could totally see that happening in cannabis, too.
You know, if someone kept breeding and breeding redundantly towards one,
you know, one terpene, one terpene, one whatever.
And that was the whole focus.
You would have to imagine that, you know, some of the things that we look at,
you know, as like recessive traits and shit like that.
You have to imagine at some point one of the things that could pop out is
something that produces that huge amount of that compound,
but not the version you want.
Yeah, I know with blueberry you can lead it towards chocolate.
You know, there's also a grape.
You know, those things are very transitory.
And the further out you take it, a lot of people end up going those directions,
even though they're not necessarily intending.
Yeah, but that's where you also find some of the coolest.
And it's true. I didn't expect to find peanut butter and blueberry in the same thing.
That's for goddamn sure.
But it's paraffin oxide.
So that is just what it sounds like when paraffin is, you know,
undergoes the process that you would imagine under goes through the name,
you know, oxidation. That's what comes out.
It's interesting.
That's around one percent.
So you can imagine that, you know.
Yeah. Yeah.
That's a pretty strong one.
Yeah, that would give me a headache, I think.
Yeah. So as far as all of there aren't a whole ton of monosesquat terpenes
or terpenoids that are really like out of control odor wise.
Yeah.
But, you know, some of some of them are a little stronger than others.
The fennel you smelled,
even at two and a half percent is pretty fucking strong.
But, you know, there's nothing there's nothing really outlandish out there.
Nothing really outlandish outlandish comes once you start getting to like red,
the red colors.
Limonene did not smell like I thought it would smell.
Oh, the other side.
So they so they mistakenly used to think that those two
limonenes were what was responsible for the distinction between orange
and then lemon and lime.
Yeah.
But it's not quite it's not quite true.
All the citrus is basically, you know, some arrangement of like the same
seven or eight things with or without, you know, a unique modifier.
I know I've talked about grapefruit has theotherpineal, the grapefruit mercaptan,
as well as a how many more?
I don't know, maybe like two or three more unique individual odor compounds.
Yuzu has yuzeen in it.
But if you look at the GCMS for like the top nine most popular citrus fruits,
and I mean, different species as well, not just, you know, a different, you know,
not like, you know, the Turaco, the fucking blood orange is still just a fucking sweet orange.
I mean, like completely different citrus.
Yeah.
It's a product of basically all modern citrus being bred down from like the same four fucking
things.
But it's all just the same eight fucking things in different quantities with,
you know, a handful of this one has an individual special compound that makes it unique.
Like the weird skunky grapefruit bullshit the grapefruit does.
Like, yeah, a lot of things are like that.
A lot of things are very, are just variable, you know.
But that's in agriculture, that's how they get the plant patents is by those unique variables,
right? Like, that's the one thing that they have to have to get the plant patent is
something that makes it unique from the other species, not necessarily,
you know, yeah, I was learning about that today.
It is really fascinating.
You know, that is not something I know a shit ton about because I just haven't been keeping up with
it.
You know, I think the last thing I even, you know, last time I brought it up and talked about
was that the, when the Spanish were getting patents, because they were able to legally define
some clonal variants as a completely different plant.
And I'm thinking to myself, shit, man, you just TC'd one thing and pick the fucking plant that
looked different.
And now you can put the fucking, put the papers on it, man.
That was the last thing I really fucking, you know.
There was a podcast and I swear, I can't remember the name, but it was actually really good.
And Brian from Radio Ridge turned me on to it.
It was a lady named Tassa.
And I believe they're from Peru, a company from Peru that's doing the majority of the HPLV
testing.
Oh, nice.
They worked a lot with the government, I think of Peru, on the COVID testing there.
And now they're the big ones doing the HPLV testing.
She was going through talking about all the ins and outs of HPLV, what we know, what we
don't know, how it's passed, how it can't be, you know what I mean?
Just, it was wild.
It was some wild shit.
I learned a lot during that podcast.
Hopefully we can have her on soon though.
That'd be cool.
And you know, man, it's, we're learning more and more every day.
I mean, I just saw something, I think last night that was like, hey, look, here's pretty
substantial evidence that fucking a super common type of aphid is passing it.
I'm like, oh, sweet.
That's great.
Yep.
So we are really learning more and we're in a weird spot because cannabis is facing all
sorts of shit that it never has before.
And, you know, between the-
All months.
Yeah.
Proliferation of information and media and new good resources for your average person.
We're basically being, you know, bombarded this, like we're getting ready to fucking,
you know, get nuked.
Like the fucking, you know, thing that comes out when the fucking lights go out at Silent
Hill, like is coming for us.
But at the same time, it's giving us huge deluge of information and, you know, giving
us all the tools so we can do what we can to protect ourselves from this shit.
Because if conventional agriculture has taught us anything, this is just going to keep happening.
We've been removed from a world that's constantly discussing disease and disease
prevention beyond common shit.
You know, 10 years ago, people were like, oh yeah, oil for mites.
Or if you were a dickhead, you were fucking spraying Avid or Fervit or, you know, Eagle
20 for, you know, any sort of, you know, PM.
Just shit like that's what the focus was.
But now, you know, in the last five years, things like, you know, beet curly top went
from something that a handful of people in cannabis had heard about.
Most of them having, you know, conventional agriculture backgrounds to something that
people are like, yo, I know this fucking, you know, screwed up looking thing that happens
to my plants.
Like, what was once kind of coveted or less, you know, disseminated information is becoming
really widely known.
And I think that's helping us with the whole Hoplaiton thing.
Because if this was all happening behind the scenes 15 years ago, at the aggressive
rate that we're seeing, you know, gardens being tested for, we'd be where Europe is
in no time.
When you see Europe doing Hoplaiton testing, they're seeing like 90 to 100% of germplasm
from fucking all these fucking panels.
The whole fucking continent has it.
Like, it's at the point where it's critical because I see countries in Eastern Europe,
you know, poor places, places that need their fucking commodities.
You know, Slovenia is talking about losing 40% of biomass to fucking, you know, Hoplaiton.
And at one point, you know, at one point, you stop calling it fucking latent, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's not very late now, is it?
I was gonna say if you're destroying 40% of a fucking country's hot biomass, it doesn't
sound asymptomatic to me.
No, it sounds like it's Hoplaiton.
Damn right.
Hoplaiton viroid.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's yeah, it's real fucked over there.
And what's funny is what it sounds like from our friends that are very involved in the
testing and passing of clones in nurseries.
It sounds like what infected over in Europe like wildfire was a bunch of bad cookies cuts
and gelato cuts went over there from America and they brought them into these old libraries
that had never seen any kind of diseases like that over there.
And it just ravaged the fuck out of them.
They just weren't ready for it.
Why am I not shocked though?
Yeah, the cookies actually took out, it literally took out strains.
You know what I mean?
And it's not just drowning them out from the market.
It literally took them out.
Cookies has been the gift that's kept on giving for the past 12 fucking years, man.
It is, dude.
Keeps on giving to us, man.
When we want clean greenhouses just keeps on giving.
Yeah, and a lot of them are trying the method of, you know, slowly cleaning it or using
peroxide or whatever.
And it's just like, they're eventually gonna learn you have to kill it all.
You know, and I do dumb shit that like some people have been like, oh, that's extreme.
Like I think I've talked to you before about fucking, you know, gassing rooms after they've
been complete with like, yeah, oxide.
Yeah.
So like, at some point, all this stuff that I'm like, wow, I'm a neurotic bitch, like
is going to not even be enough.
It's not even gonna be enough.
When you look at fucking the recommendations for like, you know, the fucking, you know,
fucking German Council on Hop Growing recommendations for, you know, not dealing with hop weight
and is basically just like, start with shit that doesn't have it.
Good luck.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Don't infect your shit.
I mean, we're the main pathogen vector and that's the problem.
It's crazy.
And the advances we've made, especially the ones that are touted are not advances at all.
And I mean, I'm really not trying to be a dick about this, but people are like, oh,
Maristem, Culture and Thermotherapy.
And all you have to do is find the maybe 10 people who did the majority of seminal research
on this topic.
And look at when they came up with the, you know, Culture plus Thermotherapy tech for
fucking eliminating hop latent.
We're still fucking trying to work with solutions that are 25 years old.
We're working with solutions that came from an era where our understanding of viroids
in general was laughably bad.
I bet.
I bet.
Yeah.
Virodes are like tiny, tiny, tiny viruses, right?
Like our single cell or something like that.
Yeah, it's basically a piece.
Just think of it as like a piece of a virus.
Yeah.
Which is one of the reasons that it's so difficult to deal with.
They have different, there's different conditions, different things you can do, you know, different
ways they have to be approached.
You know, viruses have specific things that can be done to hinder their replication.
But on top of that, I mean, there's shit that we don't even talk about.
I mean, I see studies from 10 years ago that show viroids not only, you know, doing what
they do, but also, you know, fucking up lignification of cell walls, you know, basically
corrupting the organism, which is something that, you know, plant viruses that we're familiar
with don't do.
When we see plant viruses and, you know, kind of in a direct way, you know, the ones we're
familiar with, what we see is a bunch of phytohormone manipulation, making the thing look like a
piece of shit.
Yeah.
These viroids are, you know, not, you know, doing this damage that I'm talking about via
phytohormone manipulation.
It looks like it's, you know, its existence in the fucking, you know, in that cell is
compromising the cell's structural integrity and putting like perforations in cell walls
and shit.
So I don't know.
That's nasty.
All right.
Let's see.
Do you want to pick a few more that you think I should smell and that you're really interested
in having me smell from the kit?
Sure.
I'm starting to get a headache.
So I want to make sure and do it right.
I don't want you to get a headache.
It's not your fault.
I like it.
I've been putting these smells up my nose.
I want to make sure and get the best ones down before I get worse.
Okay.
Just be somewhere ventilated, please.
Yeah, no.
See, I have to turn off my fan because everybody can hear my fan.
So it's like, oh, yeah, getting played.
Did the kit I give you have black number five in place of green 37?
Yes, it does.
That one.
Okay.
Let me see what this is.
You might want to be careful with that one when you open it because you, it's like I
said, nothing.
I didn't put anything in the kit that would be explicitly harmful.
If you spill it on yourself, it will be unpleasant, but you don't need to call poison control and
rush to the hospital.
This one's gnarly, but real interesting.
This is the first VSC in the kit.
Oh, interesting.
Okay.
Volatile sulfur compound, right?
Yes, sir.
That's, I'm going to get it.
Hold on.
There's almost, it's not, there's something in it that's not unpleasant.
It's not very, but it's like, I don't know.
No, you're real close.
I'm listening and being impressed.
You said it's very, but it's close.
It's black current.
Black current.
Yeah, there you go.
So not only is that one of the main, interesting.
Yeah.
One of the main components of like Tomcat spray.
But it's also one of the character odor compounds for, or character impact compounds for black
current.
And that's one of those things that we were talking about again with the, you know, stereoisomeric
differences and variation is that two different pieces of it provide those elements.
Yeah.
That smells really pissy and maybe even almost has that like tinge, like something that's
actually skunky.
Yeah.
Not the same part of it that provides that like green, black current, almost sweet.
And it actually becomes, as we become anosmic to the sharper, nastier part of it, that actually
kind of blooms into something that's more black current-y.
The more you smell it, the more delicate it becomes because we do lose the ability, especially
with the ESCs, we lose the ability to perceive them.
We go nose blind to them.
It's called, you know, anosmia or going anosmic.
And yeah, so you'll lose, sometimes you can actually lose the nasty part of a compound.
And what is left is kind of nice.
Like, yeah, like a weird.
That's what I, I can't try to center in on that smell because it was very weird.
Like it's not quite a berry, but it's pleasant.
And yeah, that was really weird.
I did thought it was going to be way off.
I'm sad that I didn't get you the actual skunk tincture yet.
That's always fun.
The tinks.
I had to make the best possible use of my like, slightly unethical.
Yeah, no, I know.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You know, part of it.
There's no way to get around it.
I didn't, you know, I didn't include any sort of musks in the kit.
But you know, that's something that everyone in cannabis wants to smell.
They want to smell something that's actually heavily, you know, comprised of the theoesters.
Familiar with or have read about and that's, that's what's in that.
It's gnarly, but once again, it's not really unpleasant.
And the more you smell it before you just start to lose the whole show because
those Prennell group, Mercaptans, like Mercaptan, fucking, you lose it fast, like real fast.
If you smell that shit too long, it's gone.
So the thing, so the thing that we associate with, or I guess that test has tried to, you
know, implicate as the primary mover for any sort of skunk aroma in cannabis.
Yeah, we lose it and we lose it fast.
In fact, we do better perceiving it once we've walked away and come back and not even made it
all the way there.
More people talk about fucking smell and skunk in a room where weed has been smoked.
Yes.
About fucking smelling it, you know, in a room where it's being grown.
I, you know, that's one thing that I've been thinking about a lot and I realized like,
a lot of these people who are smelling skunk at concerts were smelling it because it was
being smoked.
It wasn't because it was in someone's pocket and they were smelling it in the bag.
Most of the time, they were smelling the skunkiness, this odor when people are smoking at
concerts and they go chase it down, you know, and that's what they remember.
People remember a lot of the smell of the skunk from actual smoke.
I mean, granted, it's there in the bud too, but yeah, that's a lot of what people remember
is the actual smell of the smoke and what they're associating.
So someone said crybaby, baby poop smell.
Okay.
So the odor of feces in general is going to definitely be modified by your physical health,
you know, the way your body produces bile, your own intestinal flora, all of that shit.
But in general, the odor of shit comes from two compounds, two aminates, indole and scatol.
Scatol, that makes sense.
Oh, it makes sense.
Comes out of your scat hole.
Yeah, it comes out of your scat hole.
But they're really, really nasty compounds, but we don't experience them in high concentrations.
I'm in the kit because it's hard to do some things that I want to do because it either
has to exclude people for safety reasons.
Like, there's a whole bunch of shit I can't send to Canada.
There's a whole bunch and I can get away with more to Canada because I can still do ground
shipping to Canada.
So things that are flammable, things like that, I can get away with it.
But as soon as we start talking environmental hazards, hazards to waterways, fish, Canada's
like, yeah, get the fuck out.
Yeah.
So there's things I wanted to do, one of which was give people the ability to smell a very
small amount of pure indole and scatol compared to what was in the kit, just so they would
kind of...
Yeah.
It's nasty, man.
Like, I'm not, I'm awful, but I was just handling the bottles, not touching the materials,
handling the bottles and doing it with a spoon.
And I think I got like, I don't know, maybe like the finest dusting, like of like two
or three crystals on my gloves.
I rubbed them together in my hands, got fucking A to walk over.
And I was like, hey, what's this smell like?
Just the fucking shittiest face I've ever seen.
Like, what the fuck is wrong with you?
And I was like, oh.
Why'd you make me smell this?
Yeah.
But so in the...
Do you have a red number one that's not a placeholder in your kit?
Let me see.
I do.
I have indole.
So this is a very, very diluted indole.
It's 1%.
And what's really interesting about indole is not only is it responsible for one of the
key odors of shit, it's responsible for that sweet part of the smell of bacterial rot of
like an animal.
It's also responsible for the like kind of narcotic, skanky part of like jasmine.
Yeah.
Those white flowers, that kind of skanky bit of white flowers, indole.
So you have it, I gave it to you at 1% in alcohol.
So it has a little throw for you.
But it's going to be right on the fucking verge.
No, it's really not that bad at 1%.
It's going to be right on the verge of where like that white floral becomes the shit odor.
Yeah.
Smell that little bit of like, oh, I can smell that if this was turned way up, it would be
straight up ass.
But it's still low enough that you can get that kind of jasmine element, that tuberose
element, all the nice parts of it.
Yeah, I've smelled dead bodies before that have been sitting around in a hot morgue before.
So I've taken that, I can take this.
It's just that, it's just that little bit of sweetness.
From death though, it's not the bacterial rot.
That's funny because we used to say it's sweet shit.
It's like, death smells like sweet shit.
It's just the sweetness from it.
And it's like that kind of flowers on your grave thing.
That's not that bad.
No, it's not.
But you can tell that if you turn that way up, you can tell where it goes.
I can tell where that's going.
Yeah.
So.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, so at 1% it's the kind of the bridging area between flowers and shit.
At 10% it's.
I bet that's pretty rotten at 10.
When I make those things, I use a, like when I make the like 1% spindle and scattle, I
use a fucking respirator.
It's one of those things that you don't smell so much like some of the acids where it's
just like really drilling you.
Yeah.
And that if you catch like a breath of it and you like actually get like it takes your
breath away.
It's like, oh, fuck, like that.
You like run the fuck away, like get the fresh air if you've got a fucking, you know, exhaust
hood running that shit off.
Get that shit gone, man.
It's tarry and choking and awful.
Woo.
Okay, so that one was.
Wow.
Phenolate, phenyl acetic acid.
Yeah.
Interesting, right?
Yeah.
What's it smell like?
Okay, let me try this one.
There is a smell in there that is a bad smell.
But it's like jasmine, like a jasmine turned to 40.
It's jasmine smells almost like piss to me, but it's not the pissy smell of jasmine.
It's something else.
It's the honey smell of jasmine.
Is that what it is?
Oh my God.
Yeah, I can smell it.
But it reminds me of jasmine, like, but I don't like the smell of jasmine.
So it makes sense.
Yeah.
So PAA and PEA also put the kind of honey element on rose as well when you smell really
honey.
Really honey.
It's interesting because I thought it was kind of fun to include that, especially with
so many people in Canvas because PAA, just a name might suggest, is an aromatic auxin.
It is PAA as like IAA.
Yes, I was just thinking, yes.
And then I see butyric acid here.
And I was thinking, I know what indole butyric acid smells like.
And that smells like fucking nasty.
That's a bad smell.
IBA powder.
Yeah.
It's like grass, but not.
It's just a nasty smell.
So butyric acid, this is the compound that gives cheese its nasty aroma.
Oh, here we go.
I'm doing this for everyone watching.
I can't smell anything.
Do you have the lid on still?
No.
Oh, wait, hold on.
Oh, yep, there it is.
There it is.
Oh, fuck.
Yes.
Okay.
I smell vomit.
I smell vomit.
Yeah.
Hey, Brent, want to smell it?
It's the vomit element on Parmesan cheese.
That is literally what it is.
That is exactly it.
The high, nasty end of Parmesan cheese.
Yeah, like Fomenta cheese.
Is that what lactic acid?
No, that's not what labs smell like.
No.
Butyric acid does not smell like labs.
I'm gonna try cocoa pyrazine.
That's a cool one.
So number, red number five is the other horrible one in the-
Oh, is it?
I'm gonna have to try it.
It's isobarylic acid.
Okay, so I see the beginning smell of cocoa in it, but it goes way further than cocoa.
Yeah.
But I smell this and it smells very familiar.
Like I've smelled something that smells this exact scent and only the scent.
You probably have because you remember that era, like in the 2000s, when they were trying
to make all this stupid chocolate body sprays and shit.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
They would just find a compound that worked.
Like Axe.
Axe is like one fucking compound.
They were like, yeah, this is close enough.
Fucking.
Because like cocoa absolute, like making an actual perfume, like a natural perfume base
from cocoa, it produces a very expensive product.
So.
Wow.
Let's see here.
Here's number five, which is isobarylic acid.
Yeah, so that's the key aroma compound in valerian root, but also in body odor for certain people
and sweaty socks, stuff like that.
It's not that bad.
I'm a fucking creep.
You know what?
Not everyone hates it, especially people who are like took a lot of valerian pills and
like have valerian tea.
Yeah.
They don't.
Yeah, they don't have any problem with it.
Some people think that smells like fucking nasty sweat socks, like an old gym locker
kind of smell.
So.
Yeah, no, that smells quite kind of pleasant.
Let's see what else we got here.
Pick a good one.
Brynn said for me to pick a good smell because that's stuck in her nose.
Which one should I give her?
Pick orange number.
Pick pick her orange number seven.
OK, orange seven.
Here we go.
Orange number seven.
This is ethylmethylanthranilate.
I don't know how to pronounce that, but is that close?
Close enough.
It's a methyl anthranilate.
Anthranilate.
There we go.
I used to be good at reading shit phonetically, but here we go.
Oh my God, it smells like a Popsicle to me almost.
Yeah, that's exactly what you're smelling.
So that is the original formulation for artificial grape.
Just that.
That's what it tastes like, the popsicle.
Yeah.
Yeah, it smells like grape popsicle.
Yep.
Everything from grape soda to grape popsicles is flavored with that.
Oh, yeah, that makes sense.
And that's also the compound that separates wine grapes from fox grapes as far as the way
we imagine them.
We imagine sour grapes a certain way.
But when we think of like, you see delicious grapes, most of the time we're thinking big,
plump, Concord's, purple ones.
And Concord's are fox grapes, you know?
Foxy.
But generally, the fox grapes are shaped by that, which is, you know, kind of how we learned.
One of those things where I was talking about testing is, you know, what it was back then.
They were like, we tested this, we found that shit.
That is grape.
It's not a complete grape.
It's not a natural grape, but it is grape.
And I mean, they had...
They had the vocabulary.
New grape out by, I guess, something like 1910, 1915, that was straight up that.
That's the flavor of all those heirloom grape sodas.
And when you smell candy grape, whether that's Big League Chew, whether that's popsicles,
anything but like natural grape, which is nothing like candy grape.
Yeah, of course.
That is the compound that's fucking making it.
There aren't others that do that.
So like, you know, one of the things that I've said is, you know, candy grape is such
a fucking prolific odor in cannabis.
Everyone's, you know, grows candy grape.
I'm shocked that the one compound responsible for that scent, there's not like some fucking,
you know, team of terps, common terps that can come together and make that.
Without that, that version of grape does not exist.
So I have no idea why that's not on tests, especially like...
That's really weird.
Especially with all the Urkel being in cookies and everything else and all the grape out there.
There's a variety of things I think should be in because it seems very sensible to me
that I don't really understand.
Like why it would be ignored other than the fact that, you know,
no one's brought it up to the right person yet.
You know, hopefully they'll see this and pay a fucking attention.
I doubt it.
Well, there's always going to be people that can move, you know, move that needle much more.
You're having someone on tomorrow that can go into work and be like,
hey, motherfucker, tomorrow we start testing for this.
Yeah.
And it happens.
You know, I can shout at some fucking lab tech in a parking lot and he's gonna be like,
I'm calling the police.
And it just, the information has to reach the right people.
And I think that it isn't too far off or too hard to swallow because
nothing I'm saying is really new.
The shit that I'm talking about is well understood and established in contemporary
scent science and flavor science, whether that's perfume or foods or fucking whatever.
I'm not saying anything that's crazy.
Like, oh, you know, he's saying some wild shit.
Like, you know, if you take the shit kind of shit that I say, you know,
I post some stuff to someone who works at, you know,
Symarize or any of the big, you know, Penta, any of the big super chemical firms,
they'd be like, okay, yeah, what's your point?
Like, that's fucking all that, man.
So-
But it's bringing that data to cannabis because a lot of people that are interested in cannabis
don't necessarily branch out into necessarily perfume or agricultural industries.
It's not necessarily a part of their job.
They don't need to do that to get their job done.
So it doesn't always happen unless it's a particular, you know, fascination for them.
Yeah.
And I mean, I feel like it's a good point for the people that actually can because
it's going to be a big fucking feather in someone's cap to be the person that was the big
catalyst for, you know, revealing, you know, or I guess, curtailing and, you know, rebuilding
testing to test for all the shit that we want, you know?
Yeah.
If you had 10 people, 20 people that we know write out their favorite, you know, flavors of
weed, just shit that they found that they liked, I have trouble believing any more than 25% of
those would be, you know, unless they were a huge citrus that I have a problem believing that more
than 25% of those would be even, you know, terpene based.
Yeah.
They might have, you know, a lot of, you know, a substantial amount of terpenes in the profile,
but as far as what is known and desirable out of that odor, the terpene is being responsible
for them now. I mean, what do people talk about? They talk about, gosh, skunk, they want,
you know, they want distinct fruits, pineapple, cherry, strawberry. I mean,
this shit doesn't come from terps. It never did.
It's so fascinating.
And ignoring where it comes from is crazy, especially because, you know, I've had to mine
huge amounts of data from like hemp testing in Europe and shit. And once again, they were in
that same situation that a lot of it came from either entities that were removed from cannabis,
or were doing a lot of their work in an earlier stage. And they're working with the same labs
that are, you know, running, you know, 200, 300, 400 compound panels. So they were seeing a lot
more. So there are a lot of actual tests that you can find with some effort that prove that
it's not speculation. These compounds do exist in cannabis, and some of them have peaks. I mean,
Khamer was talking the other day about I think, what do you say is like, I think he said he saw,
you know, the spike on the GCMS for hexyl butrate or something. And that's, and regardless of any,
you know, organoleptic qualities of that compound, I mean, even hearing that someone was testing
for that, you know, that ester or really any of these fruit esters is so fucking great to hear.
Like, it's so fucking great that people are kind of, you know, unwinding the mystery. And
I think that a lot of it just, I think that a lot of it was about accepting that maybe they haven't
been told the complete story the whole time. Because a lot of you know, when I used to talk
about this shit, like five years ago, man, I mean, you were there with me talking to fucking,
what was his name, the dude that did the fucking tissue culture, and we were in Portland.
Which one? The one that pretended to do tissue culture?
I think so. But I mean, I remember, you know, me saying that something wasn't a
terpene and just like a simple concept. Because it aren't. And he looked at me like I had like
two fucking heads or like I was an idiot. I'm like, oh, man.
The SG labs.
I was like, and lots of things aren't because you know, he was, I think his commentary started
about I think it was, oh, why don't we just, you know, plug the inputs and run the panels for,
you know, skunk compounds. I was like, oh, it's not that fucking easy. And it's not what we have.
But I mean, beyond that, like, even introducing the idea that there was more to aroma than just
terpenes and terpenoids as little as five years ago was something that was met with, you know,
disdain. People be like, oh, you don't know what the fuck you're talking about. I'm like, no, man.
I've smelled all of these things many times for many years. And I really can promise you that
that shit that you wanted didn't come from the 30 terps on that fucking test, man.
Yeah.
Didn't. No combination of them makes vanilla. No combination of them makes strawberry. Like,
it's not there. There's points beyond subjectivity where people are looking for things that are
created by specific compounds, aromas. There are not a wide range of things that can create
something, you know, that can create a vanilla odor. There just aren't. There's one thing that's
responsible for almost the entirety of vanilla odor. And then there's something else that I,
you know, there's the pieces of that, of that compound. But I can think of like one other thing
that people say, oh, this really smells like vanilla. And it's another compound from vanilla.
I mean, even things like Piper Nill. If you've ever smelled a little kind of like fake vanilla
on like a blueberry or.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah. Yeah. So that's Piper Nill, Heliotrobin. And, uh,
but as far as like vanilla goes, I mean, if you show me a panel, it's like limony,
and, you know, carry and this, this, this fucking, I can, I can tell you if that's capable of
producing the smell of vanilla. Yeah. It there's only one way that it works.
So I think the overall, uh, theme of everything is that we are only seeing a small fraction right
now in testing for what comprises these smells and these, these even the cannabinoids in general,
But specifically the smells and the flavors, and we're only seeing a small percentage in
the testing, what comprises these things.
But people are thinking that they have the whole novel when they really got a few words.
And on top of that, you know, without, you know, some of the stuff I was talking about,
you know, real clear ideas of, you know, where, you know, the balance of these sterilized
owners on top of that, you know, we could be looking at compounds we are familiar with
and we do know the odor of, but that version of it that appears on that test is not the
one that we're really familiar with.
And when we've kind of integrated that into our thinking, you know, oh, this smells like
this and have completely eliminated the idea that, well, maybe this smells a little different
for any number of reasons, then it becomes even harder.
You know, at some point, you have to admit that without certain testing that's just not
available to us in cannabis, even something that we should be familiar with on a test
might be something we're not really familiar with at all.
That is wild.
Yeah, yeah, it can be a tough one.
And you know, the joke I always make, you know, who can you trust?
Not you.
Not you.
Not fucking you.
Yeah, the subjectivity of descriptions and our physiological changes, you know, doing
that shit, it's crazy.
You know, I posted a study about, you know, how some humans cannot differentiate between
two chiral compounds.
Even if two, what's a good one?
Alpha terpennial.
Okay.
The plus, I didn't explain that prior, but just for the plus smells like, I don't know,
like tarry, kind of like green conifer tree.
The minus smells like floral, like lilacs.
There's human beings out there who are genetically hardwired to not be able to make that distinction.
If they smell those two compounds, they will smell the same.
I can't smell the difference between a runover skunk and like smoked cannabis that's skunky.
I can't tell the difference.
Like ever since I was little, I've never been able to tell the difference at all.
We develop our own criteria for identification and how, you know, like I said, how memory
and emotion plays into it.
And the way that we shape our own understanding of scent is very, very malleable and we can
create, you know, basically impossible to break connections and other and actively rewrite
this shit the whole time.
That study I was talking about with people not being able to differentiate between two
stereoisomers, they were able to train them to be able to make those differentiations.
I think that's really funny.
Yeah, there.
And so someone mentioned that paper about training nostrils separately was cool.
We can do a lot to our sense of smell.
And that's one of the reasons that the kit is a lot of fun.
Because all the tricks that we can do, all the ways that we can kind of tinker with how
we understand stuff, well, we have the base materials to do it now.
Yeah.
Hey, someone else who likes scent, Joanne.
That's fun.
Yeah.
But so I guess I mean, I don't know what all to talk about.
There are definitely a few questions that I got and some of them were pretty easy.
Yeah, go ahead.
I mean, what do I got?
I got a, I put little post it notes up because I was just kind of like writing them throughout
the day and sticking them up.
That's the best way to do it.
Yeah, what do we got here?
Oh, well, there's one that's pretty dumb.
Someone asked about meat odors.
VSCs, different VSCs.
Yeah, that makes sense.
But there's more to it too.
So there's a process in cooking called the Maillard reaction.
And basically through heat and thermal degradation, new aroma compounds are formed.
So that kind of caramelization that happens to like steaks and stuff, it actually creates
new aroma compounds, which is, and that process occurs with the baking of bread, with the
browning of steak.
Any sort of non enzymatic browning can produce those kinds of compounds.
Okay.
Oh, someone said, now you're in my wheelhouse.
Yeah, I was gonna say, not my wheelhouse, unfortunately.
I do understand some of the chemistry, what becomes of it, but just about anyone's gonna
cook a better steak than me, especially someone with a name.
Dude, I just cooked on the other day and gave myself that fucked up food.
I was sick for like three days.
It was super bad.
Dude, I don't cook red meat.
Every steak I cook is just like super mid.
I'm never gonna fucking cook red meat again.
I'm so stupid.
I even had the fucking thermometer in it, checking it.
I was like, all right, medium rare, fucking A.
It'll be spiced well, it'll have a decent flavor, but I'll cut into it and be like,
I didn't cook this how I imagined it.
I'm out there doing the fucking thumb test, pinching my fucking fingers.
I'm not it, man.
I'm not a grill master.
Let me bake some cookies or some fucking shit.
I'll do that well.
Is there anything else you wanted to hit on the kit?
Where can they buy it?
It looks like someone pinned the website.
Yeah, but we got it.
It's gonna be an audio, so say it.
Oh, paraphernaliasocialclub.com.
And I don't know if there's anything else.
Oh, there is.
I'm trying to think if there was any questions from Discord.
Anything I can knock out real quick other than meat toast, because that was pretty easy.
Someone asked about a flower called immortelle and what's that special.
Immortelle's real weird.
It's full of diketones that are unique to it.
Variety of rare compounds are just found in it.
And I mean, there's not really much more to it.
It's just a very, very unique set of everything for that flower.
From the fact that it has odd flavonoids that don't seem to fade, which is how it got its
nickname, immortelle, immortal, to the fact that it has a huge range of shit that's found
in everything from turmeric to fucking rare flowers.
It's just a very strange plant.
And I'd love to see more research on that.
Someone asked about the scent of weather.
Super, super variable.
It's called S-anemone.
S-anemone.
Now we're talking my language.
So weather is a product of how it was tanned and how it was oiled after the fact.
It could be modern, you know, chemical shit.
Like real nasty shit back in the day.
They used a lot of piss back in the day to tan leather.
If I'm correct.
They used a lot of weird shit.
But you know, the one that was really distinct was birch tar.
Birch tar.
Yeah, the tree tanned leathers.
They had a lot of bark.
A lot of bark extracts have a lot of phenolic compounds.
So you got that.
The Russian leather, all the old library books, all the old Russian boots that were waterproof,
that was all birch tar.
That was all heavily phenolic.
So natural kind of off back in the day was, you know, castoreum, birch tar.
That's all heavily phenolic.
Now it's just random fucking chemicals.
Castoreum is the extracted from beaver anal scent glands?
Um, castor, castor sacs.
It's not really the anal gland that's next to them.
Oh, okay.
Castor sacs.
There we go.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Castoreum is the liquid.
That's right.
It's scent glands near the anus.
That's right.
Yeah, that's right.
So it's not pushing the thing that you want out of the poop hole.
Yeah.
It's Jason.
It's poop hole of Jason.
Yeah.
And that's the stuff that they use in like gummy bears and gummy worms and stuff.
So that's not actually true.
Oh, is it?
Damn it.
I know, I know.
People are so mad to learn that the whole fucking beaver booty juice thing is not true.
Castoreum is a very, very, it's a very expensive ingredient that's been used almost exclusively
in high end perfuming.
When it was used in cuisine, it was random shit.
Like some English king was like, we're gonna make something with this or some fucking three
Michelin star fucking chef trying to put a beard on some shit.
It's never been widely available.
The thing that with candy and sweets and shit that bug people out is the fucking red dye
from the insects.
People don't like that part and that part is true.
What is that?
The red dyes from insect shell?
Yeah.
Yeah.
But I mean, it's food safe.
Yeah.
You can rear them.
So people are like, oh man, my strawberry cherry bright red shit is really some other
shit.
Is there anything you, I feel like is there anything you want to know?
I mean, we've covered a good bit of stuff.
Yeah, I covered a shitload of terps.
I mean, like, I learned a lot already.
So my brain's pretty full, like of trying to put together everything that I learned
tonight with sense and sense memory.
But I don't know, we can always do a round two too, you know.
We could do something else another time, make it more focused, go back and you know, let
people kind of decide what they want to know more about.
Yeah.
If any of you watching have any other stuff you want us to cover in the future, we can
always do a round two.
I know Crybaby is going to help me on a few other episodes too.
I really want him to help me with the blueberry because despite me being obsessed with blueberry,
his memory is much better for the actual plants and plant numbers and what they were like,
what they were used in and the actual technical side of the breeding of blueberry.
You know, I'd be to help if I can, man.
I wouldn't do it without you because I think that that's probably some of the most important
stuff and that's your wheelhouse there.
Oh, someone said they want to hear about my breeding.
It's very nice of y'all.
We could do a whole episode on it when it's time.
Maybe another time.
There is something I want to leave you with though because these are the most fun experiments
that can be done with the kit.
Blue number two is a compound called a Ferranial, also called strawberry fernum.
And the name really kind of messes with people because when most people smell it, it smells
like really intense cotton candy, like really burning sugar.
And there's a few compounds that actually kind of have a similar odor to that.
But what's special about that one is, one sip left on my dry ass mouth.
What's cool about that one is that it really is a huge, huge part of the natural aroma
of strawberry.
One of my faves.
But you'll never see it unless you dilute it way, way down.
And it's one of the most interesting things that you can do with the kit as far as seeing
kind of, and there's a lot to talk about at the time, the way that we interpret scent,
how higher concentrations may smell like an actual different compound, completely different
than lower, but very high concentrations of Ferranial, strawberry fernum, it smells like
cotton candy, like burnt sugar, very low.
It smells like that kind of soft strawberry that Laffy Taffy has, like the Laffy Taffy
Hi-Chew kind of strawberry.
But as you take it kind of drop by drop, and kind of we'll stir it and kind of smell it
again each time, you can watch it transition between these, or experience a transition
between these two absolutely fucking, you know, polar opposites scent wise between cotton
candy and strawberry.
And it's not like strawberry cotton candy, like burnt sugar, like when you're close to
the county fair kind of cotton candy.
So if you have a moment at any point, you think it might be fun, just take out some
Ferranial, take a dropper, a little jar, one or two drops in there and just start casually
adding fucking carrier to it, giving a little spin each time and watch, I keep saying watch,
and it transition from cotton candy to strawberries.
A real cool, real simple, effortless trick.
Yeah, I'm sure Brynn's gonna want to go through this more now because she only got to do a
bit but she loves scent.
When Brynn goes through it, she'll be sure to have one of these.
What is that?
Should I show you this?
No.
So I know I've told you that like one of the big inspirations for me with natural perfuming
is a lady called Mandy Aftell.
You follow her.
Yeah.
So this is her scent wheel.
And because so much of it is, you know, so much of this information, the way we think
through it, the process is universal between anyone, between a flavorist, between a perfumer,
between someone like me who's somewhere in the middle of it all.
But this is, you know, if you can kind of see it, it's a pretty cool break.
It's all gonna be backwards.
But what it is, is it's not only individual compounds, but it's also some composite, like
composite aroma materials.
Like you see that some of them are actually essential oils or the actual material itself
while others are actual compounds.
Like what do I see?
Like shit that's, you know, shit that's in the kit.
Yes.
Between the advanced kits.
Between the advanced kit and the natural index, which is like the kit in reverse, it's
like 63 distillations and then the cards are like the GCMS results.
So it's like this and then what appears in it and that's the tool to kind of help you
put together how to identify those compounds and compositions for the best burnability.
And that's always really cool.
And the card that will wheel, I got like 50 of them just like that.
Sweet.
Yeah, so I could pass them out to all the new members and, you know, my friends and
all that shit.
And it's really cool and it kind of helps you group them better.
And on the back, it kind of is a nice little like light intro to the idea of volatility
in perfume.
Top notes, middle notes and bass notes are actually, you know, scored.
Like one to a hundred and the way that, you know, the different, you know, just I guess
all the different elements of these compounds, whether that's volatility, whether that's
how it was extracted, all of it kind of falls into it based on how we receive these compounds,
how we interpret them, how we assess them, what hits us first, what is lasting longer
and sits back while the first part dissipates.
And that's all a greater part of, you know, volatility and its role in scent.
But, you know, just for people that get them without, you know, starting any new conversations
like that, it'll be really cool to kind of see if they agree where it fells.
Do you, you know, if you put, you know, anise, basil, or that's terrible because they're so similar.
If I put anise, jasmine and fir in something, would I see those as what lasts the heart
of something, the base of something?
So, interesting.
I just thought it'd be cool to bust that out because I went.
I don't really, you know, I don't really like to purchase or sell anything.
So I was just like, oh, wait, there's like a little perfume scent wheel that people might fucking like.
All right.
So I'm going to ask you, where do you get your seeds at?
You can just email me.
But I mean,
I guess we need to try to get them on the site when it's revamped.
So, you know.
You know me, dude.
I'm not.
I know, dude.
Yeah, I know.
It's not your main point of all this.
Your main point is education.
You know, we got to plug it because people are asking and they want to know where to
get these fucking kits.
So we got to do it because these fucking things are awesome.
And they're so well done.
I'm so proud of you on this, dude.
I made this whole time without being pitchy or selling my kit like it would revolutionize,
you know, because it's what you make out of it, man.
If you take it super far and dig into it, you know, you can really do something and
really expand your understanding of the materials of set in general.
If you don't, it's a fucking paperweight.
So like, it's what you have it.
It's the same reason I don't want to pitch it because my people's pitches are under the
guise that if you buy this, this will happen.
And I can't promise what you'll do with anything.
Can't promise.
Good point.
So if you know, but I am here to talk about for people that did get one.
I know there's like a shit ton of people who are going to have one.
Very, very soon.
And they can always reach out to me to talk.
I'm not unapproachable or mean.
I mean, I just get friendlier and sweeter as the years go by.
Yeah, and anybody that's watching this or listening to this on the podcast, if you go
grab one, maybe we'll do a second episode where, you know, a lot of people have them
in their hands and we can fucking go over it again.
And get everyone's, you know, participation, the audience participation of what you're
smelling.
Because I think that's real valuable.
And we can learn a lot from each other by seeing what our own interpretations of everything
are.
I think that's how you learn.
So yeah.
And what, like I said, you know, kind of at the beginning, that's really important because
as much as we'd like to, you know, be able to be like, oh, this person's wrong.
No one's wrong.
Yeah.
But if your physiology makes you smell something this specific way, or your memory or your
emotions, you're not wrong.
I don't have to agree with you.
And it might be a completely different experience for you, but you're not wrong.
So that's why it's really awesome to have a lot of people kind of voicing in and seeing
if you know, because when you have, you know, maybe like 10 people, you know, maybe seven
of them disagree with three of them, but three of them do agree.
And it's interesting to kind of see that.
And they can, you know, within their little subgroups kind of identify if there's other
commonality between the way they perceive things.
It's cool.
I would definitely dig that.
Yeah, that'll be interesting.
Also Crybaby's with us on the British Seed Patreon.
He's always there.
He's always interacting, being super fucking helpful.
One of the most knowledgeable guys I know.
So if you're part of the British Syndicate Patreon, you may be switching over to a new
Patreon.
So yeah, when we do, I'll announce it, but we may not have to.
We're gonna see what's gonna happen.
Yeah, go check out riotseeds.com.
That's gonna be the site soon.
It'll be up in a few days.
Until then, thank you Crybaby very much.
We will see you tomorrow.
Everyone tomorrow, 5.30pm.
We're gonna be having Chimera.
We're gonna be going over lab tests, how to go over them, how to interpret them.
And if you're here tonight, it's a great primer for what's gonna happen tomorrow as well.
You can be able to use both sets of info.
And it was super important to have it back to back.
And that's why we're doing it two nights in a row.
So I'll see everyone tomorrow.
Thanks Crybaby.
We'll have you on again soon, brother.
Yeah, it's good to see you, man.
Have fun.
Bye everyone.
Bye.
Want more Breeder Syndicate?
Be sure to check out our Patreon by going to Google and searching Breeder Syndicate
Patreon.
We have a secret Discord where we are available at most times and interact daily.
There are a lot of perks to be had there, so check it out.
Need seeds?
Check out RiotSeeds.com where you can get our seeds and our reversal spray for making
your own Feminized Seeds.
