That's gonna be a fascinating book, my friend.
A sequel, right?
So you gotta wait to...
It's like the second album.
It's like, yeah, great book, but shit that's happening now is even more exciting.
Exceptional, exceptional.
There's a lot going on now, which is kind of interesting.
It's like this crazy split between all the people who are trying to run their small operations.
We always did in California.
We lost all our farms in California a few years ago due to all kinds of reasons, mostly
legal and zoning and all this bullshit.
And now when these larger operations are going, there seems to be a big split in the
community.
But for me, I'd rather work with some of those guys who want to do bigger operations and
then keep them real.
I'd rather be in it than out of it.
And for me, everybody should be able to grow whatever the hell they like.
To put the pressure on those big guys, there should be product everywhere and everyone
should be able to grow whatever the hell they want, in my opinion.
So that's the only way.
If everyone's freaking out about these big grows coming on, the only way is to have 70%
of the production come from small growers.
Exactly.
Put the pressure back on those people.
Absolutely.
You have the people that have been making the community run the whole time, get together,
do a Voltron grow.
That's the only way to fight corporations is to become the opposition and not necessarily
be cutthroat like them, but you just do it right yourself with the guys who've been pushing
it all along.
Yeah.
And you're allowed to do it and you should be allowed to do it.
But there's also that thing is you can brew your own beer, but who does, right?
So there's a place for the other side too.
But it's up to the smaller growers to keep the bigger growers accountable for what quality
is.
Absolutely.
They're like dinosaurs.
It takes them a long time to turn around and move and get genetics.
So the advantage is always with the little guys as long as they're organized.
That's kind of where I'm from.
Even though I'm running a couple of big greenhouses doesn't mean I don't feel that and that's
still where my heart is.
I bet.
I'd also be nuts not to take that opportunity to run those big greenhouses just for the
ability to grow out seeds from you guys, Kama, all those other guys, and then helping that
breeding process and then pass those cuts back.
Yeah.
I don't know if Karma told you, but I'm going to be bringing a bunch of rare African strains
that haven't been grown like outside of Africa.
A lot of people have the Malawis and the same strains of Malawi that have been passed around,
but I have a lot of different stuff I'm bringing out there.
I've been sitting on them for a long time because I have zero outdoor space and I want
them to be able to grow where they're happiest.
That's the most important thing.
You do such great cultivation out there and I think that's a place for them.
They're yours to grow when you want.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, there's the R&D space that we have with Karma and my friend Gordon down
at Elephant Head Farm.
He's all into it.
He's the guy who helped write some of the laws, the better side of the laws in Arizona.
He's the best guy you'll ever meet in any cannabis industry anywhere in the world.
He wants to grow a bunch of seeds.
He wants us to make a bunch of seeds.
He's been throwing clod of silver around for 40 years.
He's made crosses of Swazis and pure ties and pure hazes that we made back in the late
90s.
He's generations in.
He still doesn't know what he's doing, but the stuff's great.
That's amazing.
He's like one of those people.
He's a really good person in Arizona that we can do research in.
It's also where we can make seeds too.
That's so amazing.
Yeah.
That's where the heart is and that's where we'll put that stuff.
That's beautiful.
That's where it needs to go, man.
I could grow it here, but it just wouldn't be happy.
There'd be no point in it.
I couldn't see it at its best expressions and it would be a loss.
It would be selfish.
Overall, I think it would be selfish for me to try to grow it indoors and not be happy.
It'd be selfish to the whole weed world.
Let's get that out there.
I think that's all.
No, that would be amazing.
It's also, I mean, all these genetics, I'm helping on four or five operations here and
there.
Every single one needs, they have different clearances, right?
How special is the genetics?
Do I want to put them there?
You know what I mean?
The ones I get, all the special ones are the real down to earth, the real guys.
Absolutely.
Because they don't even want, the corporate guys don't even want that other stuff.
No, absolutely not.
It's reduced.
It's really kind of important to put the right stuff in the right place.
That's kind of where our angle still is, like keeping it real.
I see Sierbinski's in here.
That's awesome.
He's probably, he's the only guy I got.
If I'm being honest, he's the only guy I have a ton of respect from that is involved
with the Cookie guys.
He's the only one doing real work out of all those guys.
I have a lot of respect for that dude.
That's really cool to see him here.
I mean, Jigga too, I think.
I think Jigga does a lot of good work too.
I don't, they're the only two that I've met.
I haven't met Jigga yet.
I haven't met Jigga yet, but yeah, he's a lot of people I like a lot.
I think they're both, it's an amazing opportunity.
I got that Cookie clone really, really early on.
It's like, yeah, you put this in your greenhouses and you'll have no problem.
They were right.
I mean, that shit rocks.
Yeah, it does, man.
It's very easy to grow.
I think that's what's the major appeal to it.
Even the Sierb, the Gelato, all that stuff's really easy to grow, but exceptional.
The resin production is next level.
Yeah, yeah.
There's no pistols to, you know, to get it out of the way.
It's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just,
it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just,
it's just, it's just, it's just.
coming up, which will be... That'll be amazing. All selection, you know, all our own selections
and stuff. That'll be fucking amazing. So back in Amsterdam, what were some of the first
strains you were growing when you were out there and just getting into growing? I used
to grow and do other stuff with cannabis in the early 90s, but the Cannabis College in
2007, we mostly worked with all the Skunkmans, F1s, which we later developed. The first serious
seed stuff was there, some Adams THC stuff, Sagamata Tony stuff. We had a showgrouse.
Everybody had a little section. We had 150 plants in the garden and a big stake next
to it, which seed company it came from. We'd plant 30 seeds of each variety. People would
go for a tour and then they'd go across the street to buy the seeds because they'd see
it grown from seed. One of the more interesting ones where we crossed all the Skunkman stuff
with all the different Ingramyres widows. We had the whole line all with widow. It was
like a super widow line. We grew a shitload of those out there. There was some pretty
interesting stuff like that original Hayes with that white widow came out, 50% resin
weight, no yield, but 50% resin weight. I bet. Really nice turps. So that was for me
interesting at the time. Then all the F2s and stuff as well from Dave stuff was good.
Sherb has a question for you. What is the best strain you've ever grown? That's a hard
question I'm sure. Anything popped into the forefront? It depends where I was. Maybe that
you're more partial to. I like NL5 Hayes skunks. We developed our own line of it. You had the
Super Silver Hayes. We had the Jack Harer. We had the Euskesia. Things are legendary
and every now and again a cut came up, pain cut. My dream was always anybody who had beef,
I'm going to get a couple of hundred of their seeds, the three-way seeds, and then just
rework them and cross them together. It's like Ingramyre's white widow and Scott's white
widow. It would be like, if I cross them together, I'm healing some beef. The Super Silver thing,
right? Yeah. I kind of like that, but that's always been my go-to, that three-way really.
I remember Delta 9 Labs did some stuff with their Fruit of the Gods, if I remember correctly.
That was another skunk, NL5 Hayes. I ran a shitload of those, but there were two or three
phenos in there that were fucking exceptional that stood out among the rest. That combination
just seems to bring winners. Yeah. You never forget those though.
Yeah. There's something about them that still bugs me to this day.
I mean, Eddie got robbed at gunpoint and they took like 55 gallons worth of seeds out of his
house. All the stuff he worked on, F3, F4, everything. I kind of lost a little bit of
hope for a while then. Now, with the help of Karma and Colorado and a whole bunch of other guys,
we're collecting a whole bunch of new three-way stuff.
Yeah. I still have some of the old Northern Lights skunk haze, but the germination rate's
kind of shit, but I'll bring them. Yeah. Yeah. We just got to, if we pull it all
together and put it all on the table and we're all sitting around the table, we can start
looking at it and having a giggle, you know, like-
Absolutely. ... about these different lines and stuff.
It'll be pretty cool, I think. You know something's going to come out of it.
Yeah. I really can't wait to go to the facility and hang out with you guys for a few days
and get to see it all and play around and learn from each other.
Yeah. Anytime, huh? Anytime. And there's a couple of states to pick from now, so.
That's so crazy.
Cool. Well, I've got to go fly my drone again.
Thanks for coming on, Sjoerd. It's an absolute pleasure and an honor.
Yeah. Great chatting with you.
All right. Talk to you soon.
So, thanks to Sjoerd for coming on. Dude, any time he comes on,
that's exceptional. That was the first time. And fuck,
guys, a repository of knowledge. Absolute repository of knowledge.
And the amount of hands-on work that he experiences with all these different strains is-
Fuck. Next level.
My theory on the hermaphroditism in strains today, I think it's more to do with a mass amount of new
growers not quite knowing what they're getting into, not quite knowing how to feed plants,
going with bottle schedules, and all that shit. I'd love to bring Sjoerd on. Is he still in here?
I would fucking love to bring Sjoerd on. Yeah. But I think it has more to do with new growers
not knowing how to feed plants, feeding them like tomatoes, and just really not knowing
what direction they're going, and also being the majority of the people who are growing.
You don't hear a lot of older growers bitching about herms because we just deal with it,
you know? And we realize that's part of growing, you know?
Something's not happy in our environment, we either acclimate it because it's really special
and we know that, or we just move on and toss it and it's just whatever, man. You know? If you see
a herm happen, it's usually because it's something to do with the environment or how it's being fed,
any of that expression. Almost everything can be acclimated to not herm. Whereas like
autoflowering traits and stuff like that, for me, that's a sure toss, you know? But yeah, I mean,
I've seen some companies get just scalped over the years, scalped and raked over the herd thing.
And it's usually the ones who
