Cultivating cannabis under the sun has been my preference during the last 10 years, my
first years cultivating cannabis.
It was my preference because I absolutely believe that sun-grown cannabis has wider
terpene and cannabinoid profiles, thus making it excellent medicine.
That said, I also know sun-grown is leafier, and living where I live on Vashon Island in
the Pacific Northwest, plants rarely finish outside.
So outdoor plants may be superior in many ways philosophically, but in reality, where
I live, anything that takes more than 50 days to bloom doesn't have a chance to finish.
For those of you who follow Shaping Fire, you know that this is one of the reasons I've
become such a proponent and supporter of autoflowers.
I like that I can harvest them fully flowered in warm, dry, and sunny September.
So about a year ago, I decided I wanted to try my hand at growing indoors.
It was a struggle for me to decide because I identify as a regeneratively minded cannabis
cultivator and struggled with the idea of using electricity to power my lights.
In the end, I decided to buy an exceptionally environmentally friendly BIOS LED light and
went forward growing a 4x4 tent inside in hopes of growing my own cannabis medicine
with fully finished flowers.
And the little tent grow would also act as a good demonstration to teach from on Instagram
so I could help other patients.
I reached out to soil biologist Leighton Morrison and asked him to guide me in setting up a
Horizon Style substrate as he outlined in Shaping Fire episode 54 on geology and biomimicry.
He said sure, and off I went to try and build an indoor raised bed using all of the regenerative
and living soil techniques I use every summer outdoors.
These are the voyages of the Shaping Fire Living Soil Tent.
Its mission, to explore strange soil biology, to seek out best practices and fire flower,
to boldly go where nature guides us.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, business, and technique efficiently and with
good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
We'll send you new podcast episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox along
with commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week and videos too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published, sign up for
the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode.
Also we're giving away very cool prizes to folks who are signed up to receive the newsletter.
There's nothing else you need to do to win except receive that newsletter.
So go to shapingfire.com to sign up for the newsletter and be entered into this month's
and all future newsletter prize drawings.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I'm your host, Shango Lose.
Today my returning guest is Leighton Morrison.
Leighton is a lifelong enthusiast of both aquaponics and living soil.
His obsession with Biosphere 2 led him to set up an aquaculture at the Rodale Institute.
Leighton worked with world-renowned biologist Dr. Elaine Ingham, blending his aquaculture
byproducts with compost and worm castings to prove that natural inputs could replace
synthetics in commercial cultivation.
Leighton consults widely for agriculture, soil regeneration, and commercial land management
projects throughout the United States.
Leighton is currently founder of Kingdom Aquaponics and invented their line of living compost and
compost tea living soil products.
Leighton is a sought-after speaker and co-host of a weekly podcast on the Future Cannabis
Project YouTube channel.
One note, both Leighton and I lost loved ones this week and this episode is a bit less jolly
than most of the times we're together.
If we sound a bit off, that's why.
We're sad.
During today's episode, we will describe in detail the first cycle of the Shaping Fire
Horizon style indoor raised bed.
During the first set, we will review how I set up the substrate horizons.
During the second set, we will discuss our soil tests, the arrival of the first pests,
and any risk of a perched water table.
Then during the third set, we'll talk about ground covers, scrogging, and growing mushrooms
in the substrate below the cannabis plants.
Welcome back to Shaping Fire, Leighton.
Thanks, Shanugo.
It's always a pleasure to come back and chop it up with you.
This is kind of a different show, right?
Often when I have you on the show to talk about something within your expertise, I'm
essentially trying to draw out this academic and practiced information out of you.
But today, you're here because you taught me this biomimicry style or what people are
calling horizon style growing technique.
I figured if I was going to do a show where I kind of did a debrief of how my first cycle
went, then I might as well have you here.
Thank you for both teaching me the style and then coming back to help me tell everybody
what I did wrong.
Well, thank you for being a sacrificial lamb today.
Right on.
All right.
I want to remind everybody before we get going that the application of your strategy can
look a lot of different ways, right?
You can plug in different soil recipes into this model and it'll still work great.
Don't get hung up on my own choices of specific inputs.
For example, you can get nitrogen a lot of different ways.
I personally have had excellent success over the years with dehydrated pig's blood.
That may not be your preference though.
Don't get hung up.
It doesn't matter what your inputs are to learn the substrate style.
It's all about the division and the percentages of clay, silt, sand, organic matter, and that.
That's the cornerstone of this approach.
During this first set, you're going to hear what I use, but it may not be what you use.
Don't get too hung up on that.
Let's start out by talking about how your biomimicry horizon style played out in real
terms for my bed.
I use a grassroots fabric pots, 4x4 raised bed in a 4x4 tent in the shaping fire offices.
What that gives me is an 18-inch soil depth with about two or three inches of hardwood
matter on top.
We'll talk about that hardwood matter later.
If you are working in a container that's deeper than 18 inches, your numbers are going
to be a little bit different than mine, which is why we're going to be giving you percentages
of these different areas.
When we go through this, remember these numbers are based on my 18-inch soil depth from a
grassroots fabric pots 4x4.
With that said, there are three layers in a horizon style bed.
The top layer is the O horizon, next down is the A horizon, and then under that is the
E horizon.
If you take that 18 inches in Layton's style, and by the way, if I'm saying this wrong,
feel free to correct me.
Well, you did say percentage, and you really shouldn't.
You should say fraction.
Basically the horizontal soil system is based on a seven-part system.
Your E horizon is one-seventh, your A horizon is two-sevenths, and your O horizon is four-sevenths.
That's the easy way to break it up.
Whatever your depth is, divide it by seven, and then use that as a method to building
the proper depths.
Fabulous.
I took that math, and Layton and I applied it to the 18 inches.
That ends up with an O horizon, your top layer.
Your O horizon for my bed is 10 inches.
That's all going to be organic matter.
For me, I chose to use no-till soil from pots that I've been using the last few years.
It's in quarters.
It's a quarter old soil, it's a quarter fish compost, a quarter pit moss, and a quarter
Alliance soil inoculant, which actually is a product that Layton makes, which is essentially
an incredibly living soil.
Would that be a fair thing to call it?
It's really just organic matter that has been infused with fish biology and soil terrestrial
biology.
It's just basically, I make this very biologically rich compost, I strip it mechanically, and
add fish brew, bold flow, to it as I'm stripping it.
Once it comes out of the stripping process, then I screen it out to different coarseness.
The Alliance is a very coarse product, so it's kind of like a fibrous compost, but it's
incredibly biologically active.
If you want to get that from Layton, you can.
It will certainly help get your bed going.
But theoretically, if you didn't want to get something like that, you could double up on
your no-till soil you're bringing in from your outdoor pots, and then go with half soil,
a quarter fish compost, and a quarter pit moss, in my case, because I'm not a big fan
of using peat moss, because I don't see it as being a renewable resource, and they destroy
pit bogs to get it.
So I'm very happy with the pit moss, which is made out of organic paper, and I find that
works really well.
In my case, I've got a quarter of my regen soil, a quarter fish compost, a quarter pit
moss, and a quarter of this super-infused stuff from Layton.
Now, let me ask you this.
Did you get the grower's grade, or did you get the cocoa complete?
Of the pit moss?
Yeah.
Because they have a few different products.
Yeah, I just got this.
I forget, actually, the name of it.
It's probably grower's grade.
It's the stripped-down stuff.
I got this stuff without any added nutrition, and so I wanted to control that.
Perfect.
Great.
So those are the major components, and within that, I also put my amendments.
The amendments, the physical amount of them is so small that it really doesn't play a
role in the overall recipe as far as how the soil is built.
Given the nutrition, you could probably hold it in four hands, right?
But for me, I chose crushed oyster shells, Oli fish compost, dehydrated organic pig's
blood, of course, Dinomyco fungal inoculant, pit moss, and then that supercharged soil
inoculant from Layton.
So you take that and you mix that all up, and that becomes what we're calling here your
organic matter.
So Layton, do you like how I described that?
Yeah, no, I think you described it perfectly.
It's basically you're building a soilless medium or a super soil.
Because you're adding the amendments, we would tend to call that a super soil over a soilless
medium.
The bottom line is you're still using a traditional style of growing cannabis, but you've also
got those added benefits of the E horizon and the A horizon to help mitigate moisture
as well as provide sand, silt, and clay for the biology to mine and provide nutrients.
Did you intend to call this a soilless medium?
I mean, it's half soil.
Well, no, the top, the O horizon is a traditional soilless medium.
But isn't half of that soil?
A quarter of it is my no-till soil from my pots, and then another quarter of it is the
compost that you make.
Doesn't that count as soil?
I mean, I always thought that's soil, less is like coir and peat and perlite and all
that stuff that actually isn't soil.
Correct.
And I may have misspoke because I don't really know what your no-till soil pot was.
Was it peat?
Was it?
No, it's none of that.
It was just literally old soil that I got originally out of bags that was just like
potting soil.
Okay, all right, then it is soil.
But then I used it for five years, right?
So it was like bad soil gone good.
So it was broken down.
Yeah, totally.
So then yes, I would refer this to more as a soil than a soilless medium.
Although you do have soilless medium components in it.
Yeah, the pit moss, right?
Correct.
And compost, because compost is not soil.
Eventually it'll break down to soil, but in the beginning parts of the composting process,
it's more of a nutrient-rich material than it is per se a soil.
We don't need to get too crazy on the finites.
All right, so that's your top 10 inches when you're talking about an 18-inch bed.
So then your next layer down is what's called your A horizon.
And when using Layton's 7th model, if you have an 18-inch bed, this next layer, this
A horizon is five inches.
And the A horizon is made up of 17% clay, 13% silt, 50% sand.
And then the last 20% is another portion of the organic matter mix that you made for the
O horizon.
So when you're making the organic matter for your O horizon, you're going to want to make
enough to fill up the O horizon plus some extra to go in the A horizon.
And then at the end, I threw in a splash of biochar.
Biochar is so potent.
I just took a couple handfuls and threw it in there so it was there, but it's such a
small component of it.
One of the crazy things about this is since I was trying to make this bed as regenerative
as possible, with the obvious exception of the fact that it was indoors and I was using
electricity, I decided that I wanted to wildcraft all this stuff.
And wow, depending on where you live, your mileage may vary trying to do that.
The clay was easy, right?
As many of you know, I live on an island and along the outskirts of our island, along the
beaches, we have got all sorts of soil erosion that is going into the saltwater.
And so getting clay for me was really easy.
I just went down and there were big hunks of beautiful clay that were just falling off
the clay wall where you could see all the layers of earth exposed from the ocean water
eroding it.
So that was great.
Getting the clay was easy.
Heavy as hell, but easy to get.
And then the sand was certainly easy as well since I live on an island.
I could just collect some sand.
And when you're only doing a 4x4 bed, you're hardly taking any.
It's like a 5 gallon bucket.
The hard part for me was this damn silt.
I understood from Leighton that I wanted to look for silt along running freshwater that
was heading towards the saltwater around the island.
And so I looked at, first I went to an estuary on the island where the freshwater meets the
saltwater and I grabbed a bunch of that and I took it home and I gave it a shake test
in a mason jar.
And the component of silt was very low.
Leighton, why don't you explain how to do a mason jar shake test for people who have
never done that?
Sure, it's a home or an at-home textural test.
So basically you fill a mason jar, three quarters full of soil, then you add water until the
water's just above the top of the soil that you added while still leaving an airspace.
Then you seal the lid, shake it up, set it down, and over the course of two days, what'll
happen is everything will settle and the water will go clear.
And that's the key.
You want that water to be clear.
And then you will see the layers.
The first layer, the sand, will settle out the fastest.
Second, the silt will settle out.
And lastly, the clay will settle out.
And usually you'll get some organic matter floating on the surface of the water or floating
on just on top of the clay layer.
So you basically get sands of clay and organic matter in ratios or percentages by doing this.
And so I did this and every time I took a sample, it was like almost all clay.
There's hardly any silt.
So after I did that and was not getting a high enough silt percentage where the freshwater
was meeting the saltwater at the estuary, I decided to work my way backwards up that
stream further up.
So I'm like, okay, maybe instead of doing estuary, maybe I should take it from a long
stream.
Maybe there'll be more silt there.
And so I took another sample there, brought it home, shook it up, let it sit for two days,
looked at it, and there was more silt, but still not enough where I thought that I was
going to be able to divide it off to be able to get 13% silt in my A horizon.
So I'm like, damn, I still need more.
So then I worked my way up even further.
I was planning on going up as far as a freshwater pond that was up this stream.
But what I found was an elbow in the stream where it was not going straight downhill.
It came down and it kind of like jagged right and then it continued down.
And in that elbow, I found silt.
So for whatever biomechanics reason, that elbow held the silt better than the other
two places.
And when I took it, it still wasn't like 80% silt like I was hoping, but it was like 50%
silt.
And that was like way, way better than anything else I had gotten.
So I'm like, fine, we're just going to call this good.
And because it's always good to remember that while we have goals, we have benchmarks for
what we're trying to hit.
If you can't hit the benchmarks with what you have available locally, just freaking
go for it.
And so I did.
And so that's where I harvested just a little bit of silt.
Because again, this is only a four by four bed.
And I grabbed it and then added that as my 13% silt.
So I guess technically in my math, since I was using material that was only 50% silt
as my 13% silt, I probably only have 7% silt in my bed.
And for better or for worse.
And I wasn't sure how to make up for that silt.
I don't think I did this right, but I actually tried to make up for some of the silt by adding
some volcanic Akadama clay from Japan that I had.
And I'm not recommending you do that, right?
Because bringing clay from Japan for this is like so environmentally a bad idea.
But I happen to already have the stuff from when I was doing aquariums back in the day.
And I'm like, this is a good use for it.
So I put that in there.
So before we go on, is there any way that that makes sense, Leighton, using Akadama
volcanic clay as a replacement for silt?
Or is that just like totally wrong?
No, you know, there's a technical challenge to making a definitive difference between
silt and clay.
I try to stick along the lines of that silt is organic matter broken down about as far
as it can without specialty bacteria to break it down further.
Clay is more like ground up rock or ash from a volcano.
So bottom line is, though, they're the very, very fine small particles that have been pretty
much broken down as much as they can through natural processes other than these really
finite special bacteria that can continue to break them down further and make them,
again, plant available so that the plant can uptake those minerals.
And then when the plant dies, guess what?
It goes back to silt.
So it gets really complicated at that microscopic level of what is a clay platelet?
What is a silt particle?
Environmental soil science has always measured these by particle size.
And I think that's, again, kind of archaic in this day and age where we know that the
clay platelets are both positive and negatively charged.
So the top of the clay platelet is positively charged and the outer rim, think of it as
a flying saucer, the outer rim is negatively charged.
So the negatively charged rim pulls positively charged cations and stores them, so these
are nutrients, around the outside perimeter.
So silt doesn't do that.
Silt is generally negatively charged, does not have a positive aspect of it, and sand
has no charge.
So how do we define these as through particle size and not through characteristics of perhaps
both weight and also the ability to hold certain nutrients?
So again, I think that soil science has got to kind of come up to speed with what we know
as far as some of these more advanced understandings of these materials.
So it sounds to me that even though I used that volcanic Akadama clay, like that's cute
and that filled up the place, but it really wasn't a silt replacement, it was just something
else that probably helped the bed.
Let me ask you a question.
When you did your silt test, what was the other component?
Was it clay or was it sand?
It was sand.
Okay, so here again, you can use that combination to understanding that, okay, of this, you
know, material I collected in the stream, 50% of it was sand, 50% of it was silt.
So now I just use more of that and don't add any sand.
You see where I'm going with this?
I do.
So that's, you know, again, you have to do a little bit of math and apply some common
sense, but you can get pretty close to these ratios, especially if you're using this textual
at-home test method to determine exactly what your inputs are and then just kind of play
with them a little bit.
And again, I use the ratio 17 clay, 13 silt based on their properties.
So if you're off on your ratios, it's not the end of the world.
But again, you know, your goal is to try to get as close as you can to that for biological
processes so that you're allowing the specific biology that breaks clay down, that doesn't
break silt down and vice versa.
So you're just providing all of these inputs for really getting that advanced level of
living biology to have all of the potential tools and methods to function at high level.
And again, you know, we haven't even started talking about fungi because they also are
really important in breaking those things down and pulling out nutrients as well as,
you know, providing biofilm to actually make aggregates out of them.
But we'll get into that in a little bit.
So the last thing that's in this A horizon is like that splash of biochar.
I just put in three handfuls.
Is there a reason why the biochar goes in the A horizon instead of in the top of the
O horizon?
You know, it can go in either place.
Generally, I would probably be more thrilled to throw it into the O horizon so that it's
really going to be like a little condominium for biology to set up shop in.
But in the A horizon, it's fine.
I mean, the roots are going to get down into the A anyway.
So it's either way.
And, you know, I encourage people to get real creative with their A horizon.
There's no reason why you can't put some old hay or some leaves that you've collected or
some forest stuff in there.
You know, it's again, diversity, diversity, diversity.
I'm all about that.
And all that forest stuff is going to be biologically active with local microbes, too.
So you know, that's always an extra win.
Okay, so far we've got the first top 10 inches is the O horizon of organic matter.
And then next down is the A horizon that is 5 inches, which is the clay, silt, sand, and
a little bit more organic matter.
And then on the bottom of the bed, the last 3 inches is the E horizon, which is sand and
rocks.
And, you know, you could use bagged sand if you live in an urban environment or something.
I'm lucky that I just happen to live on an island and so sand is everywhere.
And I love the idea that it came already living with water-based IMOs that also were oxygen
tolerant since the tide goes up and down, right?
So I grabbed a bit of sand from the beach.
And then, so, Leighton, why don't you explain why you recommend the rocks should be multicolored?
Well, every color indicates a level of mineral.
So the different colors represent different parts of the periodic table.
So the more colors you get, the more variety of those minerals are available for the mycorrhizae
to mine.
And, you know, something else that you said about bagged sand, just be careful not to
get play sand.
You don't want the white fluffy stuff.
You want coarse, that should be taupe color or yellowish or brownish.
That's the type of sand you want, not the white powdery stuff.
That's important.
Right on.
Yeah, that white powdery stuff, that's more like over-processed, like white flour, you
know?
Right.
Yeah, you want chewy stuff.
And I encourage everybody to take a five-gallon bucket and fill it half full of sand and then
take measurable gallons of water and dump it into that bucket until you see the water
just going over the top of the sand.
And then look at how many jugs you used.
You will be blown away at how much water coarse sand can actually hold.
Right on.
So Leighton explaining to me why having multicolored rocks started me on a very difficult process
because I was down on the beach and I was token and I was looking at all the colors
of all the different rocks on the beach.
And I'm like, you know, I can collect these rocks and I'll have like, you know, 15 different
colors.
This is going to be the best bed ever.
And so I started collecting these rocks and then Leighton had told me that if you can,
break the rocks open, like crack the rocks, because if you're wild crafting rocks, they
have gotten smooth on the outside and they don't leach their minerals very, very conveniently.
And so he's all like, you know, if you can hit it with a hammer and break it open, you'll
have the raw interior so that the minerals can be extracted.
Well, I was all excited about that.
So I started collecting rocks and then I put them in a burlap bag and then I took my sledgehammer
to it to break them open.
And then, oh, that was great.
So I poured those into a five gallon bucket and then I grabbed another bag, a burlap bag
full and I hit that with a sledgehammer and I did that for like an hour.
Got totally exhausted, all sore.
And I'm like, all right, I got my damn rocks.
And I bring them in the house and I put them in the bed and they were like this little
dribbling in the corner of this big ass bed.
And I'm like, oh shit, I have to do three inches of the whole bed of this.
And I'm like, no, I do not have the strength and the time and the life and the muscles
for this.
And so what I decided to do is I did that process like four more times so that let's
say like maybe an inch of the three inches was hand wild crafted and hand broken up rocks.
And then I went to the landscaping store and I bought, I honestly don't know what the rock
is anymore, I forget, but it was just there like straight up gray drainage rock that they
use for landscaping.
And I just poured bags of that in there.
So I say this, A, so you can laugh at me, but also to realize that we can only do what
we can do.
And when I realized how much physical labor that was going to be, I just decided that,
you know what, having some natural rocks from the wild environment, that's great.
But you know what, I'm going to have to finish the fill with what I can just go buy and dump.
And that's what I did.
And I got great results, but I just figured it was worthwhile because if you are going
to try to wildcraft your inputs, you're bound to run into something that's hard to find
where you live and just don't stress about it.
Just grab some stuff and move on.
I agree.
I agree.
There's no such thing as perfection in nature.
So don't try to be perfect.
So it's really exciting when you get to this next part and you get to put everything in
the bed.
At this point in the process, it was kind of like if you're having a chef night and
you're making something special at home, you can use the French strategy of mise en place,
where you get all your ingredients, you cut everything up and you put them in little ramekins
there on your counter.
And then once all your ingredients are set, then you go and you make your meal.
This is kind of mise en place, but for like soil science.
I went ahead and I collected everything.
I got everything ready.
And then the day came that I made the bed.
Now, I want to put in here something that I did not realize I should have had until
afterwards.
So I don't have this in my bed.
But after I made the bed, Layton's all like, oh, you should put a four inch PVC tube along
one of the corners so you can see how much water's in the bottom.
And I'm like, what?
I'm not digging that corner back out.
And so, but if I were to do this again, I would do this.
So Layton, would you explain in retrospect why you recommended that I did that?
Because you couldn't get your hand down between the liner and the tent.
So there's no way for you to see other than if you overflow, because you did put a liner
underneath there, correct?
Yeah.
The rubber liner?
Yeah.
So the rubber liner is a way to prevent any excess moisture from leaking out around the
bottom of your tent.
Unfortunately, with the grassroots pots, they fit perfectly in a four by four tent with
no room for you to get your hand between the liner, the pot itself, and the tent.
So that's where I would suggest it to you to set that piece of pipe because, and it
doesn't even have to be four inch.
It can be one inch and you basically take two styrofoam balls and a dowel and you drop
that styrofoam, well, you take a styrofoam ball, put the dowel into it so that the ball
stays on it.
And then take the other one and slide it down until it's about eight or 10 inches above
the bottom one.
And then you just drop that whole thing right into the tube.
And then as you water, that little dowel is going to come up and you're going to be able
to determine exactly how much water is being stored in your e-Horizon and never flood it
because you actually know, oh shit, I've added 20 gallons to this thing.
It's not leaking out.
Where's my level?
And you'll say, oh wow, my level's at two and a half inches.
So it gives you a way to monitor just how much water is actually being stored in your
e or your aquifer because that's basically what you created is an aquifer.
And I do recommend that you do that and I'll use that next time.
So I'm at the point now that the only time that I can really check how much water is
in my e-Horizon is when I go to take a soil test and I dig in deep.
I just go dig in extra deep all the way down to my e-Horizon and put my hand there and
see how much water is there.
And that is not efficient at all.
That's like testing my water, checking my water table once at the beginning of a run
and once at the end of a run and twice a run.
It's worked out for me so far, but I do wish that I had that vertical tube just stuck in
one of the corners so I could check that out.
Yeah, it just makes it easier.
So here we are at the end of set one.
We have gone through an explanation of the O-Horizon, the A-Horizon, the E-Horizon,
both what I did and more how to think about it, right?
Because this is kind of an algorithm and what you choose to use will vary and the size of
your bed is going to be different.
So how much you need to make to fill up your sevenths is going to be different.
But more we're just trying to make sure you understand the idea behind it so you can play
out this algorithm for yourself.
So, Leighton, anything else you want to add to this before we go to break?
No, I think you covered it.
And again, it's all about diversity.
So colors are important, textures are important, using your local resources is very important.
If you have to buy something, you have to buy something.
It's not the end of the world.
But again, you're looking for, if you're buying sand, you want very coarse sand, so
like masonry sand.
And as far as the rocks and stuff, one piece that I do want to really kind of reiterate
is that when you're putting those rocks in there, you don't have to fill all two and
a half to three inches in rock.
It can be one third rock and the rest can be sand, but make sure you wash the sand down
into the rocks.
You don't want to have any voids whatsoever.
If you have voids, then organic matter is going to get down in there and it's going
to go anaerobic.
So the e-Horizon really functions as what's called a sand filter.
So a sand filter is generally used in golf courses to move groundwater around.
They can also be used in zoos to separate water that has a lot of duck manure in it.
So it's a technique that prevents organic matter or fine particulate from getting down
into that water layer.
So you're basically separating fine particulate from water itself.
And that's the beauty of the e is that it acts as a sand filter.
And if you're interested in sand filters, I encourage you to go back to the Shaping
Fire episode with Stephen Reisner about the water food web and how to use aquaponics with
living soil systems.
We talk about that a little bit there.
Oh, and Leighton, I wish you would have told me I didn't have to have three inches of all
rocks, man.
I think I missed that in my notes when we originally talked.
No, that's all right.
It's all a learning process.
It sure is.
So we're going to take our first short break and be right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is soil biologist Leighton Morrison.
There are so many seed banks nowadays that you really have options in who to choose.
Not only that, if you pick the wrong seed bank, you could be in for a really sketchy
ride.
And that's only one of the reasons I recommend HEMBRA Genetics Collection to my friends and
listeners who are looking for a seed bank.
That's HEMBRA spelled H-E-M-B-R-A.
HEMBRA is not just another seed bank.
HEMBRA is a woman-operated boutique cannabis genetics provider that only sells thoughtfully
curated seeds from the top names in cannabis breeding.
With over 50 breeders and over 500 strains to choose from, you will certainly find something
you'll love.
HEMBRA Genetics has something for everyone with over 350 feminized strains, 200 regular
varieties, and over 100 auto flowers to choose from.
Names you know you can trust like Humboldt Seed Company, Night Owl, Canerado, In-House
Genetics, Fast Buds, and Gnome Automatics.
We both know that there are other seed banks who will take your money but have no customer
service.
I invited HEMBRA to advertise on Shaping Fire after hearing so many good stories about them
from my friends.
They have A-plus customer service with lightning fast response times.
In most cases, Helene and Kaitlyn will get your order out the same day you place it and
you'll usually receive your seeds in just a few days.
Most seed banks are simply not this organized or interested in getting your seeds to you
this fast.
But HEMBRA cares.
You even get free seeds with every order.
Helene and Kaitlyn get it.
They have been in the cannabis growing scene for over a decade.
So save a few bucks by using this discount code too.
Use the code SHAPINGFIRE, all one word, at checkout to save 10% off your order.
Buy seeds from good folks who will get you great seeds reliably every time.
Visit HEMBRAgenetics.com today.
That's HEMBRA Genetics.
Cannabis folks are innovators and problem solvers and we like to make money.
Have you developed a tool, technique, or plant that you want to protect and monetize?
You'll likely want legal representation that is experienced, accessible, and shares
your values.
Plant and planet law represents a wide variety of clients who choose to respect the environment
while pursuing their business goals.
Have you invented a machine or gizmo that you're bringing to market?
Did you discover a breakthrough, environmentally-friendly pesticide or fertilizer formulation that you're
about to start selling?
Have you bred a cannabis plant with attributes not found anywhere else?
Attorney Dale Hunt and his Plant and Planet team have established genetic patents in over
30 countries.
Working to help entrepreneur scientists throughout the life sciences, Plant and Planet represents
environmentally positive clients in cannabis and other botanicals, fungi, water purification,
clean energy, emulsions, and medical applications.
Plant and Planet helps people protect what they've created.
If you are an early-stage company with an established idea and are in the process of
fundraising, often the investors require intellectual property protections happen at the same time.
Plant and Planet can be your sole representation or they can integrate with your existing legal
team and plug in their specialties.
Plant and Planet is made of scientist lawyers with a real passion for cannabis, inventions,
and the environment.
They have the scientific and legal depth to help you establish patent protections for
your great idea.
You don't have to go it alone.
Friendly, qualified, and honorable legal representation is available to you.
Contact Plant and Planet Law today to start the conversation.
Email info at plantandplanet.com.
That's Plant and Planet Law.
Our clients make the planet better.
One of the reasons why no-till cannabis growing is so valued by farmers is because the mycelium
networks in the soil remain established from year to year.
And we know these fungal networks are essential because they are the nutrient superhighways
that extend far and wide in the substrate to feed your plants.
The trouble with growing in new living soils or blended cocoa substrates is that it takes
most of the plant's life just to create these mycelium highways.
Dynomycoendomycorrhizal fungi inoculant reduces that time and gets your plant eating a wider
array of nutrients faster.
And it's three times the concentration of the other popular brand in the US at 900
propagules per gram of two fungal species selected specifically for cannabis cultivation.
Dynomyco is the result of 30 years of research and trials at the Volcani Agricultural Research
Institute in Israel.
It has also been vigorously trialed by cannabis and food growers across the US.
Dynomyco is now available at grow shops and on Amazon in the United States.
I love using Dynomyco to both speed up the growth of the mycelium networks in the soil,
but also as a biostimulant to make clone cuttings more virile.
You can see side-by-sides showing the comparative growth on their Instagram at dynomyco.
If you demand reliable growing results and appreciate the importance of an active root
zone in creating a thriving plant, I encourage you to check out dynomyco.com and use the
store locator to find out where you can get yours.
That's d-y-n-o-m-y-c-o dot com.
Shaping Fire listeners can get 10% off any size of Dynomyco on Amazon or dynomyco.com
by using the discount code SHAPINGFIRE, one word, no caps.
Whether you are starting with new beds or pots, or if you want to add some zing to tired
soil, choose Dynomyco to maximize your plant's potential.
Dynomyco, endomycorrhizal, inoculant.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I am your host, Shango Lowe.
My guest today is soil biologist, Leighton Morrison.
In the first set, we talked about how the horizons are actually set up and how much
of each.
In set two, we're going to start talking about how this soil acts, some of the attributes
that it showed.
And right off the bat, the first attribute that it showed was fungus gnats.
It's funny, there's a bro science thing that is actually pretty good in a lot of cases,
which is don't bring your soil from outdoors indoors.
Because when you bring in outdoor soil indoors, you are bringing in a lot of variables.
You're bringing in potential pests.
You're all bringing in allies, predator allies as well.
But you're bringing in just like a lot of variables because you don't know what's in
it.
But I really wanted to use my aged no-till soil that I've been using in my pots and amending
for like the last five or six years.
This soil is just absolutely freaking fantastic.
So I was clear that I was going to bring outdoor soil indoors.
And when I told that to a lot of my peers, they're like, oh, that's so dangerous.
And yeah, it is dangerous, but I was willing to go for it because I really wanted the living
biology.
So brought in the soil, made the horizon, put it on the bed, and then turned on my super
sexy BIOS lighting LEDs.
And oh, it took about 24 hours for there to just be a sea of fungus gnats.
They were everywhere.
And it was a concern to see them, but I also didn't freak the hell out.
I didn't have cannabis plants in there yet.
I expected things to get really excited when I took them from a cold outdoor environment
because this was during the fall.
So a lot of this stuff had already gone to sleep or sisted up.
And when I suddenly put it in a warm, full spectrum, 18 hours of light environment, everything
hatched.
All the bugs hatched their eggs or similar.
And so I had all of these fungus gnats.
And so I'm like, okay, breathe and let's call COPRT.
COPRT is where I get my beneficial insects from.
So I called my COPRT rep and then I said, all right, I've got fungus gnats and a whole
hell of a lot of them.
What can you send me?
And so after asking me a bunch of questions and stuff, they decided on the Stradioleilops
simitis.
And for those of you who actually know the correct pronunciation, you probably know that
I butchered that.
But generally, you know what I mean.
And these Stradioleilops simitis, they sent me a container of that.
But here's the deal.
Because of how the holidays laid, by the time I asked them that that's what I needed, it
was going to take them 10 days to get it to me because they ship out once a week.
And so I'm like, all right, great.
Please send me that stuff.
And in the meantime, I called my buddy Leighton to bitch about this and complain.
And I'm like, oh, dude, I've got all of these fungus gnats.
And why don't you pick up the storyline here, Leighton?
What did you tell me to use?
Yeah, so it was really funny.
You called me and was like, what the hell?
What am I going to do?
And I'm like, hey, do you still have that Rejuvenate I sent you?
And you're like, yeah, I think so.
Is it any good?
And I'm like, well, did it dry out?
Let me go check.
And you came back and said, no, it's still moist.
I'm like, all right, just whip it up a tea and pour it across the surface as evenly as
you possibly can and watch.
So what is the Rejuvenate?
What is the Rejuvenate to me?
It's just another one of the products that I make.
And it's just basically like an instant compost tea.
It's very, very fine particulate that when you add to water just makes the water look
dirty, like chocolate.
It's got a lot of turbidity in it.
So it's just a simple, easy way to instantly make a very biologically diverse tea for
situations like this.
And then you called me back and said, what is this sorcery that you did?
It is true.
Because I took the Rejuvenate, I added water, I shook it up, I evenly applied it across
the soil, and not 36 hours later, there wasn't a single fungus gnat.
None.
And I went from having all the fungus gnats in the world to having none of the fungus
gnats.
And I did.
And I actually did say, what is this sorcery?
Because something had changed.
And at first, I thought that perhaps there was something caustic in it somehow to fungus
gnats.
And I had done something to the fungus gnats, like some sort of pesticide.
But why did all the fungus gnats actually go away?
Well, you created a very aggressive environment that they became a food source very, very
quickly.
And in that Rejuve, you're going to have all different types of nematodes, which is
probably the best way to eradicate fungus gnats, not the little predatory mites.
Although they do help, the nematodes will work right in the soil and just eat the eggs
as fast as they can lay them.
So that's another little trick that if you can get really good, biocomplete or biologically
rich compost, and you make a tea, you're going to create a much more balanced environment
where one thing can't outrun the others.
It's just too competitive.
So, Leighton, I love your products, no doubt.
But that being said, not everybody is going to want to contact you and get your stuff.
So I ask this question.
Is the secret to it to just have really well-finished, biologically active compost, and then
make an un-aerated compost tea extract?
Will that work in most cases, even if it's not your product?
Oh, absolutely.
And it goes back to how to make compost.
And so there's a lot of recipes out there, but I like the real simple approach, which
is basically collect greens and browns off your own property.
I don't add manures.
I don't hit temperature.
If it hits 115, I flip it.
Because anytime you get over 120, you're losing biodiversity.
If you hit 130, you are in what's called a thermophilic process.
In other words, everything is getting cooked off.
And when you get to that level, it's going to take a year, if not two, for all that biology
to naturally come back in.
So a quick way to do this is to never let it get over 115.
And that's fine, as long as you're just using plants.
If you start playing with manures, you're going to have problems.
So basically, I make vegan compost, collecting one-third greens, two-thirds browns.
And I make the browns and greens as diverse as I possibly can.
Basically, in the greens, you're looking for endophytic biology.
So biology lives inside the tissue of the plant.
We know for sure that that biology can come out of that plant and into your compost pile
if you put enough of them in there.
And again, you're looking for diversity.
So I'm picking little green shoots off all the plants that I can find, and all different
types, and flowers, and shrubs, and you name it.
And then the browns is the same.
I'm looking for different types of wood chips, different types of brown leaves, different
types of dead stalks of plants, and using all of that to make this stuff.
And then it's just a matter of soaking it down.
Apply as much water as you possibly can until it's just running out of the bottom of it.
And then put a thermometer in it.
Watch.
Usually within 24 hours, if you've blended the greens and browns appropriate, within
24, 48 hours, you're going to see it heat up.
And if you do that, and then it goes to, say, 115, and then starts to cool off, you have
it.
All you got to do is take that stuff, put it in a compound five-gallon bucket with a
low-speed drill, like a plaster or paint mixer, and just throw a gallon of the compost in
there, fill the rest half full of water, and then blend it, and then pour it on.
You've just released all that biology.
So there's a trick for you to make your own inoculant at home.
Pantastic, dude.
Thank you.
So in the end, the sorcery of getting rid of these fungus gnats was a well-made compost
that was filled with nematodes and other microbiology.
And when I put it over the top of the soil, suddenly there were all these predators of
fungus gnat larva.
And so their life cycle is very short.
And so it took a very short period of time for all of those little hungry microbiologies
in the compost to go and eat the next couple generations of fungus gnats.
And zim-zam, that's it.
Sorcery.
All right.
Thanks for explaining that.
So moving on.
I don't know that, you know, a lot of times when I ask you questions, I'm setting you
up stuff that I actually understand, you know.
And I'm asking you the question, but I'm kind of asking it for the audience.
This is one that I'm going to be asking for me too, because I actually don't know your
answer.
When we explained this whole process, the philosophy behind it in the biomimicry shaping
fire episode number 54, and then with all of the companion materials that I was posting
to Instagram of my own bed, some folks were commenting some concern that this was not
going to work right, that this was going to end up in a perched water table.
And it was interesting because some of the angry boys were all getting themselves all
bent out of shape about it, whereas other people were having adult conversations.
And they were all interesting.
And in the end, when I came back to you and I said, dude, people are arguing on Instagram
about this perched water table.
Is this going to be a problem?
And you're like, no, no, no, no, no.
This is a misunderstanding.
And then you explained it to me and I still do not understand it.
So I'm looking forward to hearing you explain it again.
So for those people who were either concerned about creating a perched water table or B,
people who want to give this a try and their friends may give them hassle about a perched
water table.
Will you go through it in simple terms so that we can all understand why this does not
apply to this particular horizon style growing system that you've shared with us?
Yeah, absolutely, Shango.
So I think it was in the 60s.
Soil engineers were trying to figure out what the best way to build a high performance sports
turf for both football, baseball, golf, you name it.
And they actually created the perched water table.
And what it was, was basically they put a liner down and put a layer of gravel.
And then on top of that, compacted sand down.
And then they rolled out their sod.
The reason they did this was because they wanted to have a surface like a putting green
that you could walk across, but you could still roll a ball perfectly without having
it bounce all over the place.
And also you needed to be able to walk across this in case of a heavy rain event without
it turning to muck.
And so there's very, very little organic matter and hardly any silt or clay in these
types of high performance sports turf.
So there's not a lot of ability to store water and an ability to get rid of it just
as fast.
So it goes back to that filling a bucket up with sand.
And again, I encourage people to do that and notice how much water comes in, it holds.
And the other side of this, if you take the bucket and cut the bottom out and then put
it directly on soil and then fill the bucket half full of sand and then add water.
Come back a couple of days later and that sand is still wet.
So it shows you how much capillary action, wicking that the sand can do.
So somewhere along the line, some horticulturist or I don't know, plant gardener was talking
about whether to put gravel or shards of clay in the bottom of their pod and somehow confused
the perched water table with what happens in soilless mediums or potting mixes in that
environment.
And that goes back to why I came up with the horizontal system for the cannabis industry
in the first place was because when you're using a potting mix, the bottom is going to
go anaerobic and the top is going to be hydrophobic.
And because it's a low tension soil, the capillary action and the ability to wick is
not really there.
So that's the misnomer.
That's the problem is that, again, somewhere along the line, somebody said, oh, well, if
I throw gravel in the bottom of my pod, that'll help me from getting this anaerobic environment
and use the word perched water table.
When perched water table has nothing to do with potting soil, it's really talking about
how to make a high performance sports turf.
And again, so when you're comparing a pot full of potting mix to a horizontal soil system,
that's like looking at a tomato versus a cantaloupe.
They're not even close.
So, again, do your homework.
Really read up on where perched water tables come from.
It was not from the horticultural industry or the gardening industry.
That's just somewhere someone along the line took one term and applied it to something
that's completely different.
I want to ask you about the, you said that when people don't use an e-horizon at the
bottom with sand and rocks, and they're using top to bottom a soil blend of some sort, that
the bottom of the container is going to go anaerobic.
And is the idea that the reason why it's going to go anaerobic is because you've essentially
got a pot that's entirely o-horizon.
There isn't o, a, and e-horizons.
It's all just o-horizon.
It's all organic matter.
And so when you water it, the water will go through and certainly there will be some mobility
of water, but really that water is going to collect at the bottom just like it does in
any biology with a water table.
And since you've got sitting water in organic matter, it just kind of rots, which is why
since we know this is how water performs in a horizon style living soil container, we
put sand and rocks at the bottom because they can hold the water from your watering.
They can hold the water without rotting.
Is that the right idea?
Correct.
Correct.
And the a-horizon will help because it's not low tension.
It's actually high tension soil.
It will help to pull the water out of the horizon and move it up into the o-horizon
as the top dries out and pulls the water up.
And so will you talk a little bit about that?
Would you talk a little bit about water mobility?
Yeah.
So we talked about...
Hold on, before you do that.
We talked about this at length in the water and watering episode we did.
So if the idea of how to water your plants and how to understand how water moves around
in the container, if you're really nerding out about this, go back to the shaping fire
episode with Leighton called Water and Watering because we go at this for like a half hour.
But for those of us who are just interested in indoor growing and hearing this debrief
on this regenerative tent, please continue Leighton.
So water does a couple of things, right?
So you look at your soilless medium, your compost, your peat or pit or whatever you're
adding in there and you're going to get what's called fines.
So fines are really small particulate that when the water hits them, the water will actually
move them down in the pot due to gravitational forces.
So as all those fines move down to the bottom of the pot, you end up making a swamp at the
bottom of your pot.
So now all of that water is being held by those fines because they are high tension,
whereas the rest of the fibers are more low tension.
And therefore you have more aeration, you have the ability for roots to really push
through that stuff very easily, which is why that's used to grow cannabis.
That was traditionally used, it still is used to grow cannabis to this day because it has
that ability for if you feed the plant, the roots are going to go crazy, easily expand.
And obviously you're going to see the effect at the top where the plant comes out of the
ground.
So that being said, that's why these soilless mediums or super soils will have that issue
is that as you water, you're moving all the fines to the bottom where they're going to
collect and compact and store water.
Whereas with the horizontal system, your sand filter will prevent any fines from getting
down there.
And if your fines do move down from your horizon, they're just going to naturally blend
in with the A horizon because it too is preventing that easy ability for those fines to migrate
through the soil system.
It's always been an issue in engineering soils, which I used to do quite a bit of, well, I
still do, was preventing that fines from moving down and collecting and then creating what
would be considered an impervious surface or layer where the water can no longer move
down.
It has to start moving laterally or horizontally.
And that's that again is causing all kinds of problems.
You really want everything to just move through.
And again, that's why this system works so well is because it functions both in ability
to store water, prevent it from going anaerobic while preventing the overall soil system from
collapsing or causing these layers to build up.
Fantastic.
Thank you for that.
So moving right along, let's move to start talking about soil tests now, Layton.
So grab your soil test there.
So I got a couple of things to say before we move into this topic.
So we're going to talk about soil tests for about the next 10 minutes or so, probably
end up being 15.
But this is going to be the last thing that we talk about here in set two.
So if we start talking about the soil tests and your eyes start to glaze over and don't
just leave the show because set three is really great.
Set three, we're going to be talking about cover crops, how often to water, scrogging
and mushrooms and companion plants.
So third set is going to be really great.
But a lot of people just are not interested with the details from a soil report.
So if we are about to lose you, don't go anywhere.
Just skip ahead to set three and start listening again.
Now, for those of you who are interested in the soil tests, this is what we're going to
do.
If you want to see the soil test that Layton and I are talking about, you can find it on
the page for this episode at shapingfire.com.
That's easy.
And then you could hit pause right now and go get that and then play along with us at
home.
Or you can look at it afterwards.
But just to be clear, we're not going to go way in depth into the soil report.
This is not a show about soil reports.
But Layton is going to give his overview of it and mention what stands out for him.
So we're going to kind of do this like cursory thing.
The goal of this is for us to not only encourage you to get soil tests.
I really like Logan Labs.
They are who I have used.
They are not a sponsor of the show, and I don't get any money from them.
It's just who Layton recommended back last year, and I use them, and they've been great.
So anyway, if you're looking for a lab, Logan Labs is great.
But this is all to inform a discussion we're going to have about the beginning soil test
and the ending soil test and how to compare them.
All right.
So with that and with the soil report in hand, Layton, you've got it in your hand now.
And so we're looking at the column that's labeled start.
So what this is a test of is the test of the bed after I built it and after I had been
watering it for three weeks just by itself so that everything, the biology could start
to get accustomed to this being indoors, being in horizon level, being under lights.
So why don't you explain to us what you see in soil test one, which is essentially the
before I grew cannabis in it test.
Sure.
So usually what I'll do is I'll start with pH.
You're 6'4".
That's fine.
That's not a big issue.
Then I'll bounce up to total exchange capacity, which we would call CEC.
Here you're in the high 20s or mid 20s, which is fantastic.
Then we bounce down to organic matter.
We have a very high organic matter content, 40.42%, which is fantastic.
And then I'll start looking down at what's called your trace elements, which are very,
very important.
Everything seems to be pretty much in range.
Your iron's a little high, no big deal.
Aluminum's a little high, but again, that's not going to be a problem unless you get into
a low pH situation.
Look at your nitrates, 356.
That means there's a tremendous amount of natural organic N available in the soil that
the biology can break down and release as a plant food.
So those all look pretty good.
Then I'll bounce over to what's called the saturated paste test, which is probably one
of the most important aspects of looking at a soil and its ability to function.
So if you look down under percent, you'll see calcium, magnesium, potassium, and sodium.
So generally speaking, that ratio should be calcium 75, magnesium 17, potassium 8, sodium
0.
In this case, you have low calcium.
Your magnesium is way too high and your potassium is a little hot.
But look at your sodium, 12.
So you're losing a lot of potential because that sodium is stuck on that cation exchange
site instead of those primary minerals.
And we can talk a little bit more about where to get some of these wonderful new organic
products that are basically 4% calcium.
So if you have calcium and you add it, you will bump potassium and sodium off the exchange
site.
Calcium is what we call a double bond.
So it has two positive charges and potassium and sodium only have one.
Magnesium has two as well.
So you have to be careful about CalMag.
It's so funny.
I was about to say, I'm like, it's so funny.
You're telling me I need to bump my calcium and my magnesium.
I'm like, oh, Jesus, is the actual solution to this more CalMag?
Because we all know that is the joke, right?
Yeah, right.
I know.
More CalBel, right?
Everybody in the cannabis industry laughs about that because that was what people did
was they just pounded it with freaking CalMag.
And in this case, if you put any more magnesium on here, you're going to cause way more problems.
So you really just want pure calcium and then you're going to let the plant work through
high magnesium.
And by the end of the run, you'll see that that magnesium came down a little bit.
And your calcium actually went up in end to one report.
But anyway, so those are the things.
And then underneath the percent, I'm again looking at trace minerals, trace elements.
So trace elements are really, really important for some of the finite plant processes.
So its ability to fight disease, to accept sunlight, the ability to push nitrogen and
calcium through its whole system.
Molybdenum is one of those really, really important ones.
So again, looking at the start, everything looked OK.
I don't see anything that really jumps out and scares me.
Toward the end of the run, all of a sudden now we've lost a lot of nutrients.
So we'll talk about that a little bit more as things go forward.
No, let's move right to that right now.
So you're looking at the start.
And so I had a pretty good start.
I had a great start.
I had a nice variety of nutrients and I was really happy with all the natural organic
matter that we had.
So then, you know, I go and I do the run, right?
I grew five plants in that tent, which we'll talk more about in the next set.
But I grew five plants.
They vegged for like four and a half weeks or so.
I did the flip.
And then I grew varieties that were ready around week nine.
Took nine weeks.
And so here we were at the end.
I harvest and then I take another soil sample because I wanted to learn how much nutrition
I should expect plants to use.
And I was also planning on reamending before my next cycle.
So, Leighton, let's go through this again.
What do you see in the soil report now after I've grown a cycle of cannabis?
So look at organic matter percent.
It went down by four solid points, a little bit more than four points.
Then you bounce back up to cation exchange capacity.
That too dropped.
Pretty significantly, you dropped by five plus points.
So what that indicates to me is that your organic matter was your primary source of
cation exchange or the ability to store nutrients in your soil.
So in that regard, you know, I would encourage you to top dress with a little bit more compost
so that you're putting those exchange sites back into play because they're as they get
broken down from compost to silt, you're losing the positive charges that would have
been holding those nutrients.
So that's one interesting thing.
But the drops that you're seeing, though, even though we do want to replenish and that's
the whole point of reamending, these are drops that would be typical and expected
after growing a cycle of cannabis.
Exactly, exactly.
But this is giving you exactly what you're missing if you're paying attention to it.
I like that it's also showing that the system is functioning, right?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
It's not like, oh, I grew plants and now everything's out of whack.
It's like, oh, no, this is what we would expect if you grew a proper living soil plant.
But it also gives you the direction on what you need to make sure that you're putting
back into play.
And again, people get so overwhelmed at looking at these reports and it's like, no, you don't
need all of this.
This would be for someone who's very, very heavy into soil science.
Really, all you're looking at is exchange capacity, organic matter, trace elements,
and then your true saturated paste percentage.
If you look at, for instance, the soluble cations, it says calcium is up at 62, magnesium
at 41, potassium at 41, sodium at 25.
Then you drop down to percentage, they don't match up.
They're not even close.
So that's where you have to understand that soluble means that it's potentially plant
available, whereas the percent actually represents what's being held on the cation
exchange sites, which are a better, think of it as a battery for your soil.
So, I mean, look at your soluble cations, calcium at start was 62, which is great.
And at the end, 4.5, that means you gobbled up a tremendous amount of calcium in that
run.
But then you drop down a percent, you look at calcium and it's 35.64, and it actually
went up to 39.96.
So what that says is that as the calcium that was in the soluble cation or plant available,
some of that fell down and attached to the cation exchange sites.
So that's a good thing.
And look at your magnesium.
Your magnesium after at the end was dropped all the way down to 25.62, which again is
like the system is functioning.
It's going in the right direction.
It's balancing it out, balancing itself out.
Potassium went from 12.34 all the way down to 4.24.
And worse, the sodium was at 12.6, went up to 30.18.
So that indicates to me that perhaps you either have high levels of salt in your water that
you're using to water the plant, or you used a nutrient that had a salt base.
So we talk about mineral salts versus organic nutrients, right?
There's still going to be salts in organic nutrients.
The organic nutrients are harder to break down, which is why you need a tremendous amount
of good biological diversity to make those available.
But as the biology pulls things off, it's going to leave behind the salts.
And this is where it goes back to, oh, flush.
Flushing is a good thing.
Using excess water.
I used to call it, I said it originally as, oh, just waterboard that bitch.
And you aided it.
Oh, this is true.
And forced me to rename it into a rain event.
Heavy rain event.
Heavy rain event.
So bottom line, in this situation, what I'd probably recommend is that you do a major
rain event at the end of the cycle so that you push those salts down into the E horizon,
where they can naturally build up down there and then they won't cause a problem.
So that's kind of the gist and the interesting things that have happened.
All right.
So before you move on, you said a whole bunch of provocative stuff.
So let's start with how much sodium there is.
Now, what I would like to understand is when we look at the cation exchange section, it
says that the sodium started at 181 and finished at 117.
So that looks like the sodium decreased.
And when we originally talked about it, you said, aha, this shows that there were no added
salts in your inputs.
And I was all happy, right, because I'm not using salt-based bottles and stuff.
And you said, yeah, you're not adding any salts.
But then when we look at the soluble cations, where you're having us look, the percent,
it went up.
How come it looks like sodium went down in the cation section, but the percentage went
up?
They seem to be contrasting in their indications.
Well, no, actually, they're not.
See, soluble means that it's mobile or available.
And percentage means it's bound to a cation exchange site.
So it goes back to, think of that clay platelet as a little flying saucer.
And around the outside of that flying saucer is 100 parking spots.
That's your battery.
You've got 100 little pieces of these primary nutrients, calcium, magnesium, potassium,
and sodium.
So when the sodium started in soluble cations at 25.23 and dropped all the way to 3.91 during
the cycle, well, they went somewhere, right?
They went down to percentage.
Those solubles, those salts that were released are now stuck on your clay platelet.
And being stored.
And we don't want them stored there.
We want them mobile and we want them moving.
We want to get rid of them or let them naturally break down because there are some bacteria
that can actually start breaking salt apart.
So that being said, they just moved.
They went from one place to another place.
You follow me?
I do.
I do.
So all sodium is not the same on the test.
Again, you're looking at what's being stored.
The percent is what's being stored on the cation exchange site.
And the soluble cations are the ones that are more mobile in the soil.
So they can move.
They either can get used up very quickly or they can wash through the soil profile.
All right.
Fantastic.
So let's move on to our third soil report that we're going to hit real fast.
So this is where things get a little iffy, my dear listener.
So I guess I'm kind of throwing myself under the bus here.
So after seeing this report, the second one, showing me how much nutrition I used,
I told Leighton that I was a big fan.
I continue to be a good fan of the KISS Organics Nutrient Pack.
And Tad has put a lot of effort into making a wide ranging blended amendment
that you can just buy a bucket of and add to your soil as amendment.
And it will just amend all your different categories.
And it just makes things really simple.
Also, if you're an ultra nerd for this, Tad at KISS Organics,
they will also custom blend you a nutrient pack as well.
And he actually offered that to do that for me.
But I said, you know, dude, I want to practice with what's bought right off the shelf.
I don't want to get the custom stuff, but I will let people know that that's available.
So that's why I'm telling you.
So what I did is I followed the directions on the label and I added my 18 cups of
nutrient pack to the top and I watered it in.
And then I covered it with some more soil from outside and watered it in
and kind of walked away from it.
I figured, okay, I'm doing a fall harvest of my outdoor.
I can just let this soil sit for a while and just water it in.
Right.
And just, I don't know, let it do biology.
And so I was about three days into that and I called Leighton to let him know that I had
done this and he was like, oh, dude, you can't just let the bed sit there.
And I'm like, well, what do you mean?
And he's all like, well, are the lights off?
I'm like, well, yeah, the lights are off.
I want to save money.
He's like, yeah, he's all like, the bed is alive because of the light.
And if you turn off the light and if there are no plants in the bed,
you are just kind of like choking all of the biology off.
And it's not going to be cycling and ready when you transplant in plants.
And I'm like, whoa, mind blown.
And so I realized that I needed to plant the bed so that plants would grow so that when I was ready
to replant it and focus more on it in a few weeks after we harvested outdoor,
so the bed would be ready to go.
And so I'm like, oh, so I turned back on the lights, not at full power,
but enough that the bed was going to get lights.
And I put in a bunch of flowers and onions and strawberries and chives and just a whole bunch of
things and a little basil.
I just bought that living basil from the store and threw that in there.
And so these were all temporary plants.
These weren't plants that I was going to keep very long,
but they were all plants that I was going to grow and then chop and then cover with more soil
and then plant my cannabis in three weeks when I was done with harvest.
So that's what I did.
And it was actually really cool.
And for those of you who follow on the Instagram, you got to see all the pictures of these
beautiful strawberry blonde calendula and the pink dandelions and the strawberries
I was eating out of there and the onions.
It was really great to be producing food for myself out of this indoor tent.
So that was all really cool.
However, it was time to get another soil test, right?
Because I wanted to see and ensure that the amendments that I had used had brought up my
numbers again and I was ready to grow cannabis.
So I took my test, I sent it into Logan Labs, I got it back,
and I was disappointed because the numbers were lower than I expected.
But I had done everything right.
And so I went back to Leighton and I'm all like,
Leighton, why aren't these numbers higher?
I know this product works.
It's raised my numbers before, but it didn't this time.
And he's all like, well, you were growing plants in there, right?
And I'm like, oh yeah, I got great food and plant.
And he's like, dude, they were taking up more of your nutrition.
It's not like the beds there stopping its uptake of nutrition
just because you didn't have cannabis plants in there.
And I went, oh.
And so I had both amended the bed, waited a while because I was busy doing other things,
and then tested it.
And I had used up most, if not all of the amendments that I had put in there three months
earlier.
And so this was a life lesson for me.
And so I have to remember that all these companion plants I'm using
are actively pulling on the nutrition as well.
And in retrospect, that's totally obvious.
So looking at my time frame, Leighton, what do you think the time frame should be between
you end the cycle, I take the test, I get back my results, I add my nutrient pack.
How long should I wait?
How long should I be watering in those amendments and let them settle
before I replant with cannabis plants?
And I guess that's the question.
How long should I water that stuff in before I put in the cannabis plants?
Well, I mean, again, you're continuing to grow plants throughout the cycle.
So even though it's not cannabis, now it's called a resting bed where you've got
other plants in there that are keeping the living soil system alive.
So you really want to, again, if you're going to plant in three weeks, take another soil test.
And now, again, you'll know what your companions or your foods that you grew in there
have taken out.
Or be proactive and understand that your numbers are going to continue to go down.
If you look at primaries, nitrate and aluminum, in the beginning of the cycle,
you were at 356 for nitrates and ammonia was at 6.2.
At the end of the cycle, you were down to 89.5 in the nitrate and 0.08 in the ammonium.
And then bounce over to the one that you just took.
And your nitrates are at 18.2.
So they've continued to go down.
And your ammonia is at 0.3.
So you really need a good source of nitrogen in this thing.
That, like, you know, I don't know how much pig's blood you tend to use traditionally.
But I would say whatever you were using, you need to double it for now.
To get these numbers back up to where they need to be.
So and that's true with the molybdenum, as I pointed out before.
That, you know, that's down to less than 0.02.
And that's a critical trace for, you know, plant function.
So again, you know, these are giving you things that you need to know as tools.
How best to amend next?
Again, you're going to need a good source of calcium.
You could use a slow release, you know, oyster shell flour.
Or you could use like a liquid calcium source like Hortical, which is an organic 4% calcium.
That's also acts as a nitrogen.
Now this gets really complex.
So I'm not going to go down this rabbit hole.
But the interaction between calcium and nitrogen is a really interesting one.
And not one that is often talked about.
If you look back at some of Rudolf Steiner's work in the 20s,
he talks about these in forms that don't really make sense.
He's talking about ethereal and terrestrial planes.
And it's really what he's talking about is nitrogen and calcium and the relationship they have.
So those would be the starting points that I would really encourage you to focus on.
I mean, soluble calcium went from 62 down to 4.5.
After the end of the run, with your most recent test, your calcium went back up to 37.58.
So obviously, whatever you amended had a good source of calcium.
But again, you're going to want more.
I mean, in the percentages stuck on your cat and exchange site,
remember that that number I just gave you for calcium was soluble.
So it's mobile.
It's one of the nutrients that you've added.
Whereas if you look down on your percentages, your cat and exchange sites, you're down to 31.94.
So you've lost again your ability to store that stuff on a cat and exchange site.
So that's why it's really important that you get a more mobile liquid source of calcium
to help to bump off the potassium, which is 27, way too high.
Bump the sodium off, which is 11.41.
So that good calcium, liquid calcium source is really going to help you a lot
in getting this bed back to a wonderful or a good place for the next run.
So I think the main lesson that I've learned from this is,
number one, don't do your soil test until you're ready to transplant your cannabis plants
and put them in there.
Because after you have done, you do your test and then you do your amendments
and then you add your plants.
Whereas what I did is I did my test, did my amendments,
and then I waited a month with resting plants in there.
That was eating up nutrition and throwing me back off balance.
And then I went to add my plants and it was no longer as robust as I wanted it to be.
And at that point, I needed to do another test and then re-amend.
So I screwed myself with that resting period.
And like, certainly I have, I lost yield per year as well.
And I don't think I'll do that resting period again.
Yeah, I would say that, you know, the interesting thing was that you saw what the goal is.
You saw what you started with and you saw what you ended with.
And so I agree with you.
I think that starting and getting that test is critical.
And then once you're ready to plant your cannabis plants, like two to three weeks,
three to four weeks before you're ready to plant your cannabis plants,
then do your ending test.
Because you had that resting period where those onions and those other
onions and those other cover crops and companion plants gobbled up more nutrients.
So I think that, you know, I'm glad you did this because you're really seeing what's happening here.
And even though you amended, you still lost more nutrient.
So again, you know, lesson learned.
Start, test, and just before, you know, three weeks, four weeks before planting the next run,
that's when you want to do your ending test so that you can figure out what you need to put in play
for the next run.
And again, you know, even if the nutrients are, you know, like organic form, again,
like an oyster meal flower or, you know, feather meal or whatever that you're putting in into play,
you can plant right after that.
You don't have what's called the cook down phase, which is what super soils do,
is they, you know, they basically blend you all these high nutrients and then they say,
don't use it right away because you're going to burn your plant.
If you try to plant in it, you got to let it cook off.
And basically what's happening is you're going into a thermophilic process where
organic N, nitrogen and carbon are being eaten and broken down and you're releasing ammonia,
which is another form of nitrogen because they've broken it apart as a gas.
So you're losing nutrient value in that process.
But if you, again, if you don't allow the biology to break it down or bust it into more usable
pieces, then it's going to kill your plant.
So you have to do that.
But in the case of your situation where you're just amending with hard organic nutrients,
other than the pig's blood, that's a little different.
These nutrients are going to stay in play in the soil for a longer period of time.
They're not soluble, but they're not mobile either.
They're bound up in their raw form.
Which makes them kind of slow release.
Yes, exactly.
Till the biology breaks them down.
And that's good because the plant will actually say, hey, you know, I don't need any of that
right now.
So I'm not going to feed this exudate for this bacteria to break that down.
But I will when I come to a point in my growth cycle where I need it,
then I'll release exudates.
I'll grow out those bacteria and I'll mine that source of nutrient.
Right on.
All right.
Well, thank you for going through that arduous soil report situation with me, Layton.
And so let's go ahead and take our last break.
And when we come back, we're going to start talking about some a little less technical
stuff like cover crops and scrugging.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
And my guest today is soil biologist Layton Morrison.
We'll be right back.
There are a lot of good people launching new businesses in cannabis, psilocybin and other
psychedelics.
And it's a very strange time for us.
In the same moment that psilocybin mushrooms are illegal at the federal level, they are
becoming increasingly legal in states across the country.
These businesses leading the way into the future of plant medicines require specialized
legal representation by attorneys who have depth not only in litigation, mergers and
acquisitions, but also in psychedelic and other plant medicines.
Green Light Law Group has been empowering cannabis businesses since 2014.
And as the market has diversified into psilocybin and other plant medicines, Green Light has
been right there evolving with their diverse clients to provide legal expertise with a
high level of legal acumen, creative strategy and precision that comes with an intimate
and specific understanding of both business law and plant medicine.
If you are a business owner trying to navigate the layered local and national drug laws on
your own, you are at risk of fumbling.
These confusing and quickly changing laws complicate everything.
Green Light Law Group is ready to help you when hit with a lawsuit, or because you were
shafted by a vendor or business partner, or simply because you want to stay legal and
could use some preventative guidance before cultivating a controlled substance as an entrepreneur.
Green Light Law Group is a collection of folks who care profoundly about their work, and
I know this is true because I know the folks from Green Light.
There is a huge difference between a big legal firm who has decided to start representing
a few drug companies, versus working with a collection of high integrity, passionate
lawyers who are personally interested in new plant medicines and firmly believe in
their power to heal.
Contact Green Light Law Group today and learn more about the services they can offer your
industry leading cannabis or psychedelics company.
That's Green Light Law Group at greenlightlawgroup.com.
For years, organic cultivators have been looking for a replacement for using peat moss.
Peat moss has long been the go-to soil amendment for water retention and container growing,
but organic growers know that peat moss is an unsustainable resource, and the mining
of peat bogs destroys habitat and releases sequestered carbon.
But peat moss works so well that many have continued to use it.
But now there's finally a revolutionary replacement for peat moss that shares the
same benefits while also being sustainable.
Pit moss sounds and acts like peat moss, but instead of being mined from fragile ecosystems,
it actually is made from upcycled organic paper and tree bark.
Pit moss is excellent at retaining water in your substrate and creating air pockets
and tiny living environments for microbes.
Pit moss instantly increases aeration, nutrient absorption, and water conservation too.
Carefully and locally sourced, pit moss is the result of decades-long research
into the use of recycled paper fibers.
Pit moss has the fluffy nature of peat moss and handles exactly the same.
And like peat moss, pit moss is inert, so it won't change your pH.
Available in a range of preparations including a nutrient-enhanced blend,
a coco coir blend, and also as an organic soil conditioner with no added nutrients,
pit moss is also available as an animal bedding.
So go to pitmoss.com now to learn more.
That's P-I-T-T-M-O-S-S dot com.
Growing healthier, more sustainable plants.
Pit moss.
For 20 years, Humboldt Seed Company has been family-owned in providing reliable,
high-yielding seeds originating in Northern California.
While the current trend is to slap one super male into a line of hype strains,
Humboldt Seed Company continues to breed with precision and care
by doing large sifts and back crosses to emphasize the absolute best traits that a line has to offer.
This kind of breeding takes time, talent, and space to work.
No matter what kind of aroma you are particularly into,
Humboldt Seed will likely have something you'll love.
If you love fruit, you can choose from banana, mango, apricot, papaya, blueberry,
blood orange, melon, and lemons across their various strains.
They have all-gas, glue, and classic sour diesel lines as well.
Of course, there are the Heritage California strains like OG Kush, Jack Herr and Headband,
and their award-winning Blueberry Blueberry.
And their award-winning Blueberry Muffin is one that delights just about everybody's palate,
especially when concentrated.
Humboldt Seed Company is proud to bring to market the infamous freak show cultivar 2,
which has a great THC high but looks so much like a fern that some folks can't even identify it as
cannabis. It's a plant that really needs to be seen to be believed.
If you're looking for well-balanced CBD seeds,
Humboldt Seed Company can turn you on to CBD strains that actually have flavor,
like the dill and pepper terpenes of Willie G's Lebanese landrace.
Whether you are looking for regular, feminized, or autoflowers,
Humboldt Seed Company has the gear to make this your best growing cycle ever.
Visit humboldtseedcompany.com today to check out their line of vigorous genetics,
download their catalog, and find out where you can pick them up.
You can also check out their Instagram at The Humboldt Seed Company to check out their
gorgeous flowers and the extraordinary freak show plant. Humboldt Seed Company,
let them know Shango sent ya!
Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire. I am your host,
Shango Lose, and my guest today is soil biologist, Layton Morrison.
So, Layton, here we are, third set, bringing it all on home.
The first thing I want to point out is how many plants to grow in this environment.
With all of the nutrition, with us being able to add more if we want to, it's not really the
amount of nutrition that is going to be limiting the number of plants we could have.
What's going to end up limiting it is the space we're going to have.
And so, against all of the good opinion I got from all of my friends,
I grew five plants in a four-by-four tent. And everybody's all like,
what the hell are you doing? This is just going to overgrow the tent so bad.
And for me, I was more interested in flavor variety than necessarily yield.
I wanted to grow five different tastes, five different flavors just for my own head because
I'm not growing the stuff to sell. I'm just growing the stuff to smoke.
And so, while I understood that five plants was probably going to impact my
yield because the plants are really competing, I didn't really care all that much.
But I do agree, five plants is too many. It was just too many. They were growing on top of each
other. And so, I was growing a lot of plant matter that never finished because it had other plants
growing over the top of it, especially because one of them was the Bicket OG.
And the Bicket OG, the GMO cherry pie cross from Nick Risden, it is a beast. It turned my tent into
a freaking cage match. And it just wanted to overgrow everything else. So, I had to continually
trim it down during veg. And then even after flower, it was just trying to climb over everything.
So, I've kind of learned my lesson and I'm going down to four plants for this next round,
which is still probably too many. But again, I want the flavors and I'm going to scrog it. So,
if I fail again, so be it. So, let's talk about cover crops.
So, the cover crops that I liked the most is primarily for cover crops. I use Dichondra
repens, which is a very short, about one-inch ground cover. It's a green plant. And it's
commonly used in between the bricks of fancy driveways. Sometimes they have those ornamental
paver bricks. So, you can drive your car on your driveway, but then there's this beautiful pattern.
And so, they're very resilient. They hold their own water. And they just grow thousands of these
individual weighted plants. So, that's pretty cool. And I also did everbearing alpine strawberries
because I wanted to be able to eat from them. I did some flowers, including pink dandelions and
strawberry blonde calendula. And it was just fun, right? The thing of the thing though,
that I was not planning on though, was when the scrog filled up.
But before we start talking trash about how the scrog acted on the cover crops,
Leighton, will you please explain the importance of companion planting from the perspective of,
number one, the various roots of the plants talking to each other? And then number two,
helping fight the surface from becoming hydrophobic?
Absolutely. So, yeah, the cover crops are amazing in the regard that they create a microclimate
right on the surface of the soil. So, the soil's not getting dried out due to the wind,
it's the air moving that you have in the tent. And it's also preventing the lights from cooking
the biology on the surface of the soil. And it's literally, as the water evaporates,
it's hitting the bottom of these little leaves and then dripping back down onto the soil again.
So, in many ways, you're allowing a natural little micro ecosystem to occur right at the
surface soil. Now, what's going on underneath the soil is even more important because,
yeah, everything is communicating, especially if you have mycorrhizae fungi. The amount of work,
there's some amazing things that we are learning at an incredibly fast pace about mycorrhizae and
some of these other plant interactions and how they communicate with each other through the
movement of different chemistry that's happening in the mycorrhizae. We now know that there are
certain bacteria that will actually enter into the mycorrhizae and transfer to different plants.
And also on the outside is a super highway of all kinds of bacteria as well as predators,
like amoebas and flagellates. So, again, there's this whole, think of it as the internet, a whole
web that's providing transportation of both nutrient, mineral, and biology back and forth
between these plants. So, yeah, that interaction between roots and biology is critical for,
let me ask you this, did you have any pests even though you had that tent packed with plants?
No, I actually didn't have any pests. Sorry. None of them during the actual
growing experience. If you asked me the day that I ended, I would have said I had no pest pressure.
And I attribute that in my head mostly to the fact that I worked with my consultant from
Copert Beneficial Insects, and I placed beneficial insects in the tent that were preventatives.
And so I assumed that that is why I got through this run with no pests. That said,
when I went through and I harvested and I went through and I trimmed, I found two sun leaves
that were face to face with a slight slit, like normally where you'll see spiders living,
like a little hut. And I found maybe a hundred aphids in there. And I was startled. I'm like,
where the hell did these aphids come from? I didn't see them anywhere else in the tent,
but they had set up a home just in between these two leaves. And so technically there were pests
there, but there was like nearly no pest pressure. Why? I do not understand.
Well, I would attribute that to a healthy biological system and healthy plants that
are strong and resistant. Yeah, they went home. That makes sense too, because the place where
they grew, it was in between two leaves from one of the plants that was suffering by being
overgrown by the Bikinog. There you go. There you go. So they'll find a place that's weakest
and then try to, you know, grow out in that place and then, you know, get a population big enough
that they can attack other healthier plants. But again, you know, if plant health, if the
plants are healthy enough, they will deter pests. And I think in many ways you had that
because of the way you grew, the level of biology that you had in there because of what happened
with the fungus gnats. I mean, that was a real indicator that you put in a very diverse inoculant
that's present now and you will see it again in this next run. And let me ask you another
hard question. How did your plants turn out? Oh, they were the best plants that I've ever
grown in my life, period. I mean, on one hand, duh, because outside in the Pacific Northwest
where I live, we start to get cold and rains the last week of September, first week of October.
And most eight week plants need to go at least until the middle of October here. And so we don't
finish outdoor plants really, you know, coastal Pacific Northwest. And so all of the plants need
two more weeks when we pull them. But so as my friend Johnny told me the other day, he said,
oh, so when you grew indoor, it's the first time that you grew finished plants. And I'm like,
yeah, I guess so. And so they were beautiful, colorful, dense, a complex terpene profile.
There wasn't much pest pressure or like chewing of leaves or they were like an Olympic team
and they tasted freaking incredible. So it was a wild success.
I'm happy to hear that, my friend. Yeah. I mean, again, it just goes to show that if you do the
right things and you look at the bigger picture, then you're going to have a better, more rich
plant because you have had the biology and you have the diversity and you have all the components
that everything needs to function properly. So, you know, kudos to you. I'm glad you had such a
great run. Can't wait to taste it. Yeah, right on. And I, of course, appreciate your help on all
of this. So let's talk about the cover crop and then seague into talking about scrog. Because
there's one thing I want to say. I talk often about, I really like pink dandelions. They're
an heirloom flower that just has become popular because Baker Creek Seeds is putting it out now.
And if you do go and you're like, oh, pink dandelions, that sounds great. And like you go
buy a pack of seeds for three bucks. Just make sure that you don't let them go to seed when you
are in flower because it absolutely sucks to have those little white puffs of dandelion seeds
floating around in the tent and getting in your sticky flowers. That is not a win.
And so what I do is I just let them grow up and they look cool during veg. And then anything that
goes to seed during veg, I grab those seeds and I harvest them and I share them with my friends.
But if anything goes to seed during flower, I just go ahead and pull off the seeds before
they fully form because I'm not willing to risk that just for some beautiful flowers.
I know which flowers I'm growing. So then the second thing I want to talk about is the experience
that I had using the Scrog. And this was actually probably the biggest challenge I had
during the cycle. So I had the plants grow up. I started weaving them through the Scrog. Everything
is great. They start competing for space excessively. And what I found was because
the plants were so strong and because I so fully filled in the Scrog, what happened was it cut off
the light to the soil down below. And up until this point, I had the whole bottom filled with
all these green plants, the Dichondra and flowers and alpine strawberries and all this great stuff.
Well, when the light got cut off from an effectively done Scrog, all those plants below
started to suffer. The Dichondra started to pull back. The strawberries pulled back.
It started not looking happy down there. And so I realized that I was starting to experience big
gaps of exposed soil top. And I don't want that because when you have bare exposed soil,
you no longer have that little Amazonian buffer of weather in the inch above the soil from the
Dichondra repens and strawberries. And with that bare soil, you can start getting something
hydrophobic. So I'd be watering the top and the water just slides off the side of the bed and
goes down the side and it doesn't go into the soil. And so I'm like, shit, I don't know what
I'm going to do. And so after asking around to Layton and some of my other friends, I realized
that what I wanted to do was to replace that green mulch, that green top cover crop with wood chips.
And I'm like, all right, because if I used wood chips, then I could grow mushrooms. And I was
very excited. I grow a variety of mushrooms and I'm like, oh, my God, how cool would it be to be
able to grow cooking mushrooms, culinary mushrooms below my cannabis in the shady area.
So what I did is I didn't really have good access to wood chips, but because I live on an island
with lots of artists, I was able to find really nice, hardwood refuse from woodworkers on the
island who make like bowls and utensils and things like that. Really nice organic alder and oak and
madrone and other hardwoods that maple and use those. And that worked out really well.
And I was able to get those and it was kind of fun because they're all in curly hues as well.
So they look festive. And so I got a couple of huge bags of that just gifted to me from
artists on the island and I put that on top. And so essentially I just choked out the rest of the way
all of the cover crops. But before I put that down, I reached out to my buddy Seth from Ready,
Shroom. And I got some golden oyster and I got some wine cap inoculated sawdust and stuff.
And he shipped those up to me and I put those down so that when I put down these hardwoods on top of
it, eventually those mushrooms occupied the hardwood and I got some edible mushrooms.
So that part of it was cool. But the part I would like you to speak to, Layton, is that a lot of
people were really concerned for me that I had put air quotes wood chips on top because they said that
the wood chips were going to steal nitrogen from the substrate. And that concerned me. And so when
I told you about it, you explained to me what they're talking about, what that biology is
between wood chips, nitrogen and the soil. But then you also explained why this wasn't going to
happen with these cured hardwood bits that I was using. So will you go through that for all of us?
Absolutely. So in the living plant, we talked a little bit earlier about endophytes.
So there's all different types of biology. And what happens when you take fresh green
trees, branches, whatever, and you chip them up, they're going to go through the thermophilic
process. They're going to start breaking nitrogen down, breaking carbon down and heating up. And
that's where you have a problem because basically those thermophytes are going to steal any form of
nitrogen that they can find and essentially starve the plant out because they're stealing it all to
break down carbon. So that's where fresh new chips are absolutely problematic. Old age chips that are
punky, no problem. Curly hardwoods, no problem. They've been cured, kiln dried, left to,
or I should say not left, but processed so that they don't warp and twist. So again,
it's not even comparable to what people would think of as fresh wood chips. It's old wood.
It has gone through very much a pasteurizing process so that it's usable wood.
So this pasteurizing process removes much of the water from it because they're dried out and cured.
And so without that water component, yes, they will break down, but they don't break down in the
same way. So they're not going to be stealing nitrogen. Perfectly said. Perfectly said. All
right, cool. Well, thanks for hitting that. So here we are, we talked about the scrog. The scrog
was very effective. And when you use a scrog properly, it essentially created every nug on
the plant was a cola, which I was astonished to see for the first time. And I will now scrog
everything forever. And so I recommend that you consider scrogging if you have not.
So Leighton, this brings us to the end of third set. And this is everything we wanted to talk
about today, doing this debrief from the bed. You have been assistant quarterback on this project
from me. You've taught me and you have caught me from making mistakes. I'm going to just kind of
put myself at your mercy, I guess, and just say from what you have seen, is there anything that
we haven't talked about today that either somewhere between I didn't do right or I could have done
better that we haven't talked about? And so don't be shy. I know I'm learning. So was there anything
else that stands out for you that we should mention? I would have loved to see you make a
biological compost there using your plant matter, your leaves, everything that you've pulled off,
as well as combining it with some stuff outside. And instead of using just all wood, hardwood
shavings, I'd have loved you to mix those hardwood shavings in with that biologically rich compost
that you made. That would be the only thing that I could really complain about because I think,
you know, based on our conversations, you did all of the steps correctly. And again, nothing's
perfect in nature, so we don't have to try to be perfect. Your combinations of materials,
your effort, I mean, I loved the fact that you smashed rocks. I love when you called me and said,
I'm just going to get stoned and bust rocks up. And then a day later, you called me back,
oh my God, you didn't warn me. Yeah, so, you know, and I'll reiterate why you want jagged edges. The
more jagged edges there are, there's more surface area for the biology to grow out its biofilm and
begin to break that rock down. And when it's smooth, it's basically polished. So that's the
problem is the polish doesn't really allow them to set up in those tiny little crevices and pores
and little tiny micro cracks that would have been, you know, a jagged edge. So that was pretty much,
you know, the only pieces of the puzzle that I think, you know, I just want to make sure the
listeners understand the reasons why that I encourage you to make your own biological compost.
So this biological compost, are you, what's it made out of? Is it, are you, were you, did you
mean like, I, like the parts of the cannabis plants that were not the flowers you would have
liked to see me biologically compost the sun leaves and the stem and like all the other biological
parts, like after harvest, is that your point? Yeah. I get it. After harvest, every time you
should be taking anything that you're not keeping and blend it with local greens and browns to the
ratios we talked about and get it as soaking wet as you possibly can make a nice little pile of it.
Get a compost thermometer, monitor it. Once you get over the thermophilic process, in other words,
once it hits a temperature and then starts going down, as soon as it goes down to a hundred degrees,
throw a whole bunch of seeds on it and let those seeds grow and put miles of rhizosphere
throughout that compost pile. Everyone's like, oh, you're, you're stealing nutrients. No,
you're not. You're growing out biology, which is what you really want. And everything that grows
there is going to die there and fall back down and make you more compost. So that is the trick to
really getting a very biologically rich compost that you can use as a top dress because we lost,
you lost cation exchange sites. You lost organic matter between the start and the very end results.
So you need to put that back in play. So chips are great as a, as a way to keep that microclimate
in, in the top of the soil, but it's also it's not going to give you the kind of nutrition and
biology that a compost would have done in the same place. Right on. Fair enough. So Layton,
thank you so much. Like, let's see, I got a couple layers of thank you. Thank you very much for taking
your time with me today and doing this, this debrief of what the first cycle was like and,
and how we thought our way through it. Cause really we're not, we're not really trying to
teach a specific recipe that you have to use every time we're trying to share a perspective
of how these horizons work indoors so that we can biomimicry as much of the natural systems
from the outdoors indoors. So, so, so thank you for joining me for the show today, but then also,
brother, thank you for spending your time with me on this project, you know, the hours of phone
calls and me calling you cause I was upset cause something wasn't working right. And you essentially
just, you know, making sure that I didn't like run my ship into an iceberg. And so I greatly
appreciate both your experience and your willingness to play with me. Oh, it's my pleasure.
Shango is my pleasure. And, and I'm glad that there's another more public example of this. I
get a lot of thank yous and DMs and texts and emails about this and how it's made people's lives
so much easier because you're not, you're not fighting the plant. You're, you're letting the
plant guide you and you're just participating in its life, which is, you know, that's kind of the
way nature works. We don't, well, humans have tried to fight nature since, you know, we got
started expanding, but in reality we were just stewards of the planet before we got crazy and,
and, you know, just started expanding like, you know, or breeding like, you know, rabbits. So
that's kind of why, you know, I think so many people have thanked me is because it's, it's made
their watering practices easier. They're, they've got healthier plants that biological diversity is
much greater. So therefore the expressions that we're all looking for those, you know,
second and tertiary metabolites are more potent or more expressed. And, you know, that's,
that's it. I mean, it's again, biomimicry, copy nature and get those, you know, get those good,
diverse biological communities up and running for you and let them do the work. So my pleasure, dude.
Right on. Excellent. I've got to agree with you. I get letters all the time about that episode 54
on biomimicry and people are all like, you have totally changed how I grow. Thank you so much for,
you know, doing that episode with Layton. So it, it seems to be one of the things that we talk
about here on shaping fire that really, you know, hit a nerve with people in both directions, right?
There's a lot of people who are very excited and they're using it and they're, you know,
it works for them. And then there's people who are all like, this is not how I learned how to
do this. And I need to do some pushback. And, you know, I appreciate that too, as long as people
are being polite about it. So if you want to hear more shaping fire episodes with our dear friend,
Layton Morrison, you can go to shaping fire episode 54 on geology and biomimicry. And that
is the original place where we talk about this horizon system, this horizon style and explain
the philosophy behind it, the why that we use it in containers. You can also check out
shaping fire episode 59 with Layton Morrison, which is just simply called water and watering.
And it explains the life of the hydro life of your container and you know, kind of gives you
an idea of exactly how much to water. More recently, episode 82 on deploying aerobic and
anaerobic soil. And that is a mind opening and you'll learn a lot about the types of compost
teas that you're going to want to use on different varieties of soil at different times of life as
well. If you want to follow along, Layton, you can follow his Instagram at kingdom aquaponics,
LLC, and you can find out what he's up to and also get announcements for his incredibly popular
podcast on the future cannabis project YouTube channel, which is on Thursdays. But if you follow
him on Instagram, you will always know who his upcoming guest is. And then finally, if you want
to find out more about this, this, you know, regenerative tent that we grow in the shaping
fire offices that we're using as this demo tent that we've been talking about today,
you can find lots of posts about it at shaping fire of Instagram, where we post updates and
how tos and a lot of mistakes that I made. So that's always a pretty good laugh as well. And
that again is at shaping fire on Instagram. You can find more episodes of the shaping fire podcast
and subscribe to the show at shaping fire.com and wherever you get your podcasts. If you enjoyed the
show, we'd really appreciate it. If you would leave a positive review of the podcast, wherever
you download your view will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too. On the shaping fire
website, you can also subscribe to the newsletter for insights into the latest cannabis news,
exclusive videos and giveaways. On the shaping fire website, you also find transcripts of today's
podcast as well. Be sure to follow on Instagram for all original content not found on the podcast.
That's at shaping fire and at shango Lowe's on Instagram. Be sure to check out the shaping fire
YouTube channel for exclusive interviews, farm tours and cannabis lectures. Does your company
want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts? Email hotspot at shaping fire.com
to find out how. Thanks for listening to shaping fire. I've been your host shango Lowe's.
