Most people in the cannabis scene assume they know how to judge good flower.
A subset of those people also think they have advanced enough skills to even judge cannabis
competitions.
Alas, most people are using their own subjective standards and preferences while thinking that
they are being objective.
This gets played out with very serious impacts when wholesale cannabis buyers are judging
who to buy from for their retail outlets.
But perhaps even more impactful is when subjective preferences cloud the decisions of cannabis
cup judges.
Today we're going to talk about some of the finer points of judging the merits of a cannabis
flower, how disreputable judging is at most cannabis competitions, and the certification
called interpreting, that is to cannabis what a sommelier certification is to wine.
If you enjoy hearing frank discussions that dive deep into cannabis health, business,
and technique, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
Every week you'll receive a new podcast episode delivered right to your inbox along
with commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week.
Social media sites are becoming very unreliable and showing folks every post they want to
see so sign up for the newsletter and make sure you don't miss an episode.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I am your host, Shango Lose.
My guest today is Max Montrose, founder and current president of the Tricome Institute.
Through the Tricome Institute, Max is a key educational advisor to the government, business,
and public sectors.
He specializes in providing a certifiable cannabis curriculum for cannabis professionals
and serious cannabis enthusiasts.
Today we're going to talk about judging the qualities of cannabis flowers.
Welcome to the show, Max.
Always a pleasure, Shango.
Thank you so much for having me back.
So let's jump right in, Max.
Cannabis enthusiasts have a wide range of reasons they deem cannabis to be good or bad.
Some tokers, for some folks it's just the amount of THC.
All they look at is the THC percentage and then they buy the one that's the highest.
Whereas some more experienced folks are looking for terpene profiles.
But similarly, patients are most often judging flower based on if it gives them relief or
whatnot.
And all these folks are looking at the same cannabis in different ways.
And that's totally happened because there's never really been an established standard
for judging cannabis.
But then you, with the Tricome Institute, built this interpreting program, which is
kind of like a, well not kind of, it is a sommelier-like certification for people interpreting
the standards for cannabis.
So what are the key aspects that you've put together for judging the quality of cannabis
flowers?
Well, I think before I want to dive into the aspects that we put forth to judging the flower,
is it fair to maybe first look at all the different types and reasons why judging and
grading cannabis is important in our industry today?
Yeah, sure.
I think everybody from a patient to a retail buyer to the grower, I mean, I think everybody's
judging for their own.
So you've probably teased out more of that than anybody.
So let's hear it.
Sure.
So you know how in our industry everyone grows the best weed?
Yeah, everybody does.
Right?
So because everybody grows the best cannabis, and because there isn't a system or a mechanism
to decipher the differences between the quality of the units, what you're seeing on a wholesale
market is the price per pound for cannabis that should not be consumed being sold at
nearly the same price of really, really high quality product that is extremely difficult
to produce.
And so there is a real big problem because the high quality producers, they deserve to
get anywhere between three to maybe even a thousand dollars more per pound, but they
can't.
Or on the reverse, people who are growing really low quality cannabis, stuff that's
unripe, has a bunch of pesticides on it, what have you, that stuff should not be selling
for as high as it is.
And so we're the only multi-billion dollar market in the world that has no ability to
measure the difference of its quality.
And so every head of lettuce in the grocery store and apples and even your medicine, your
pharmacy, has all been quality verified and checked for your consumer safety.
And also for your, I guess, so that it tastes good too, not just being safe, but that it's
a high quality product.
And so it's kind of silly that the cannabis industry doesn't have anything like that,
when at the same time our industry is more serious about bragging rights and proving
that our cannabis is better than the other person's.
Which is why we've developed entire cannabis cups around this.
And almost this black market process of how do you prove to your purchaser that your cannabis
is better than the other guys.
I can imagine that would be really important at the wholesale level too, right?
Because so many people are buying flour and they are deciding whether or not to put it
in a bag for bag appeal or run it into oil because it might be strong but not very pretty.
They're doing that mostly on the opinion of the producer, unless they go and they take
a look at it themselves first person, which is super time consuming.
I can imagine that a standard that got picked up throughout the industry would be pretty
much helpful to everybody.
Well it would.
And also at the consumer level as well.
And so in the state of Washington, you're not allowed to see or smell the cannabis before
you purchase it.
So you basically get this grab bag for 50 bucks and you're just praying that it's going
to be decent.
And so what the TAG program is, is Trichome Assurance Grading.
It truly is the world's first and only cannabis quality certification process.
Now hold on, before you go too far down the TAG thing.
I want to focus on TAG more on the second set when we're talking about you at Cannabis
Cups.
Let's circle back around first because I know that you're using these sommelier folks, these
interpreters in the Cannabis Cups.
I first want to set up why these interpreters, where they get their skills.
So let's circle back around to what are you teaching interpreters as the quality aspects
in flower, which makes your interpreter, your sommelier program.
So why is that the best standard in the industry?
Sure.
So interpreting is a cannabis sommeliership.
And in all decadent categories of expertise, which would include wine sommeliers, beer
sissarones, cheese mongers, coffee cuppers, tobaccoists, honeyers, the majority of what
they're analyzing is one, quality.
And two, how well does it pair with another food?
And so it's about does it taste good and what does it pair with?
And interpreting does the same thing, but to go so much further, way more important
is in the beer industry, when you order an IPA, you get an IPA.
But in the cannabis industry, you could order Blue Dream and not get Blue Dream.
You know, nine out of 10 times in Colorado, for sure.
It's the most counterfeit strain name in our state and in Washington too.
And so what interpreting does is in an industry that's as young as it is, with the strain
name dilemma and speciation dilemma is it empowers customers and patients to know how
their cannabis will affect them physically, mentally, psychotropically by being able to
see and smell the psychotropic differences within the flower types.
And so, you know, interpreting, we really start out in cannabis elementary school, where
we, you know, first teach you about the very first cannabis plant ever, pituitary, ancestral,
primordial, cannabisia, cannabis ruderalis, and how that species created the indica and
sativa species and how those species moved around the planet and how some are drug types
and some are hemp types.
And we've got both of each and this is why it gets really confusing.
But then going further, the program basically gets to a point where we analyze that cannabis
is a massively hybridized domesticated plant the way that dogs are, but in canine form.
And that it's not a gray wolf and it's not a coyote like the original strains or species
in the wild.
So when you go to a pet store, you purchase a poodle and that's kind of the same in the
cannabis store.
The flowers are more like poodles than they are like wolves and coyotes, indica and sativas.
Because they're so far away from the land race.
Correct.
And so what we have is we have to really analyze cannabis in a much more intelligent way.
And interpreting really helps people to do that by looking at cannabis in the hybridized
spectrum that it's in from stimulating to sedating flower types.
And then we teach you how to use your human senses to literally use your fifth cranial
nerve, your trigeminal nerve in your face to physically feel the detection of the vibration
of the terpenes in different parts of your face while simultaneously analyzing their
specific scent profiles so that we can gauge what terpenes are available and what type
of pharmacology we know they produce.
And then also the shape of the bud structure, the cola itself is dictated by the plant shape.
And the plant shape is dictated by the geography.
And the geography really helps us better understand what type of psychotropic plant types these
started out as.
And so we really, we dissect in class over a hundred flowers that we bring to class visually
and with our smell, with our sense of smell.
And we dissect them for their total quality.
And so, you know, the Tricome Institute, we are a cannabis education company.
I believe we're the only cannabis education company that teaches people about bad weed.
So many grows and grow schools or grow books and competitions and all these things.
It's always about the best of the best of the best.
But our theory is you don't know what good weed is until you really understand the intricacies
of poor quality cannabis.
Moldy weed is one of those things like, you know, like male plants, right?
Where a lot of people who are all the way at the end who are the consumers, a lot of
them have never seen a male plant because there's no reason generally for a male plant
to find its way into the food chain for cannabis getting to the end user.
And similarly, there's no reason for moldy weed to be in there as well.
It was funny when, so about three years or so, we had a plant go moldy.
And, you know, I just took like six seconds of video of it and threw it on my Shango
Lowe's YouTube channel.
And I was shocked that it's like one of the most popular videos that people watch just
because so many, so few people have seen moldy weed.
And I think that your point is well made that, you know, when you see miraculous flower,
I mean, it kind of stands out and you know, holy crap, this looks good and it smells good.
I can't wait to toke it.
Whereas when it comes to, you know, you know, B and medium grade flower, a lot of people
don't they haven't seen C, D and F to know the difference between mids and really bad
stuff that you shouldn't ingest at all.
Correct.
And, you know, interpreting is it's it's really serious the way that wine sommeliership is
serious.
And so when I teach you how to assess the degree of cannabis age, I show you cannabis
that's three months, six, nine, 12, 15, you know, and two years old.
And we'll show you the spectrum where we'll teach you that chlorophyll in the bud begins
to bleed at the base of the cola where the stem is.
And so you can really see the degree of age from the chlorophyll bleeding from the amount
of time that it takes, as well as the particular and very specific smell old cannabis produces,
regardless of the strain or terpene types that it started out with.
And so we're really kind of the only place in the world where you can get that hands
on, you know, smell on lecture, expert experience, but also with the molds and unflushed cannabis
and cannabis with nutrient lock, chemical burn, spider mites, male flower sites, poor
trim, hemp that was harvested early on purpose to keep the THC levels down.
I mean, we really bring all of these cannabis samples to class in Denver and the Denver
classes are level two, which is the hands on class that also includes a test.
So you know, after the four hour education and workshop, we give you 10 jars of cannabis
that are unlabeled.
And what the test is, is you have one hour to pick five out of the 10 and tell us what's
wrong with those herbs, identify the species of mold or the degree of the unflush or what
have you.
And then the other five, line them up in order from stimulating to sedating.
And there's five of them.
And so when people can do this, when people pass more than 80% of their level two test,
they become a level two certified interpreter and they get a green pin.
And we have level two certified interpreters in Canada.
People have flown in and have passed from South Africa, Mexico.
Every class we teach, we have people fly in from more than five different states and multiple
countries.
Last class we had people fly in from even the Czech Republic and Poland.
I know your classes are jam packed.
And I think that one of the aspects of it is that it really is a pilgrimage, right?
Because I've been wanting to take your interpreting series myself, but being out here on Vashon
Island where I live, I'm a long way away from Denver.
And so I need to make a specific plan to come to you.
But really, even though your class would blow up if you did it online, there's simply no
way to do it because the experience of grading cannabis, you have to do it in person because
so much of it is based on smell.
So yes and no.
So the yes is yes to everything that you just said because it makes perfect sense.
And that's the Denver class and it is a pilgrimage because people do have to come to us because
we can't take a hundred flowers across any border.
And so unfortunately, it's a pilgrimage.
But the no part is the level one that we do.
And level one is simply people who are just so excited to learn about interpreting and
they want the three hour lecture and the ability to interact with me in person and ask all
the questions that they want.
I do do these level one courses at a state and I just did one at Dope Magazine's headquarters
in Seattle while I was out there judging the Dope Cup.
And we had a full class for sure.
And because I was judging the cup, I had enough cannabis to actually detect enough that were
different to demonstrate and show in class.
Some actually poor quality ones as well as the spectrum in and of itself.
So it was kind of like a level one and a half if you will.
And I will tell you that our interpreting tools are super fun and awesome.
They're colorful and interactive and simple to understand.
But the guidebook, I've actually started looking at the idea of scratch and sniff stickers.
So if there were people in Australia or the UK who it would just be a little too extreme
to make the pilgrimage that maybe we could in the interpreting super kit actually put
vials of live terpenes that will go along with the guidebook with scratch and sniff
stickers so that we can, you know, if I tell you that the smell of unflushed flower smells
like this and you scratch it and it does, it's better than I guess not having a scratch
and sniff.
Yeah, it's better than not at all.
Yeah.
But I think a scratch and sniff cannabis sommelier book would just be the coolest thing ever.
So do you find that there's a lot of variability in the terpenes that different people's noses
can pick up?
Just like with wine, different people's palates can pick up different notes?
So yes, absolutely.
And I am, I'm unfortunately too busy to do so many things in life.
But one thing that I need to get around to doing is testing myself as a super taster.
And I've ordered my kit.
So I do have the super taster tester kit, which is really fun to say.
And apparently there's this chemical way to analyze if you are a part of a small population
of humans on earth who have an ability to taste things much greater than other people.
And I do have lots of people tell me that one reason why they're concerned that they
don't want to come to class is because they have a really poor sense of smell.
And you know, I just ask them, how much do you care about passing your test versus learning
all of the information about what cannabis is, where it comes from, how it works, and
how to identify its qualitative features?
Maybe that's better than you being able to smell, so class is still important.
But I think the most interesting thing, the thing that's the craziest part of interpreting,
and the thing that needs more science and more research, is where you feel the smell
in the different parts of your face.
And so I still have never seen anybody in the world publish any type of media or content
or literature or video or anything around the idea that this is something that is true
and happens and is possible.
And I've been doing this since I was a young kid.
And now I teach this to people, and it is extremely accurate that stimulating terpene
types are felt on the ophthalmic part of the trigeminal nerve, which is the top of
the nose in between your eyes.
Whereas sedating and heavier, physically heavier, live hydrocarbon chains, isomers, terpenes,
deeper, richer, rounder, more robust chocolates, leathers, tobaccos, that you really, that
sit in the lower part of your nostril and is felt there, are really sedative-dominant
variety types.
And so it's this totally crazy thing, because whether it's cannabis or not, 99% of everybody
I show this to says, I've never in my life even known that my nose could smell in different
parts of my nose.
Like, I've never even realized that.
And so when you come to class, not only do you see the qualitative features, the botanical
elements of the flower that are consistent with their quote-unquote sativa indica, in
reality it's more like narrow-leaf drug types that are stimulating versus broad-leaf drug
types that are sedating, do have these consistent correlations within them.
And where things get complex is the fact that these are all hybrids.
And so there's a ton of crossover.
And so it is unbelievably particular and minuscule and just what we're analyzing is
the most subtle of visual differences, smell differences, and taste differences.
Extremely, extremely subtle.
And yes, some people are much better at seeing and smelling these subtle features than most
other people.
Right on.
When we get back from the first commercial break, we are going to talk about how you
and your team of interpreters are kind of remaking the competitive nature of cannabis
cups by bringing your mad skills.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is Max Montrose, founder of the Trichome
Institute.
For anyone who is paying attention to cannabis medicine, it has become incredibly apparent
that full extract cannabis oil, known to some as Rick Simpson oil, is the cornerstone of
healing humans with medical marijuana.
If you own a medical dispensary or retail store, you know that your customers are asking
for it every single day.
And if you have been working with patients and seeking out quality full extract oil in
the Pacific Northwest, you know the provider Deep Green.
Kat Jeter and her team at Deep Green have been making full extract cannabis oil and
setting the standards for quality and exact dosing for years in Washington State.
The Deep Green brand is known by patients and cannabis media as a premium quality provider
for sick children, cancer patients, and others in need.
At a time when there are no national standards for cannabis oil, ensuring a product is whole
plant, quality assured, and lab tested is often a matter of knowing your source is reputable.
Trust in a quality brand is essential when choosing a cannabis medicine that is going
to be used concentrated and in volume by any patient, and especially those with weakened
immune systems.
Deep Green is looking for national brand partners to expand the availability of their legacy
top shelf cannabis oil to emerging medical and licensed states.
Partners benefit from the Deep Green brand recognition and credibility, as well as ongoing
customer and marketing support.
Not only that, but Deep Green knows how to employ the 280e tax rule so you can deduct
it all from your taxes.
Working with Deep Green can provide the trust and authenticity too often pushed aside in
favor of lifestyle products.
Your customers can assure themselves that regardless of the state in which it is made,
brand licensees adhere to the same strict standards that patients everywhere have come
to expect from Deep Green.
Deep Green licensing includes startup and capital planning, as well as operational and
manufacturing instruction as you'd expect.
For more information on how your company, co-op, or medical dispensary can benefit from
partnering with Deep Green to provide full extract cannabis oil to patients, go to shapingfire.com
forward slash deepgreen to connect with Kat Jeter and her team.
That's shapingfire.com forward slash deepgreen.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I am your host, Shango Lopes, and our guest this week is Max Montrose, founder and president
of the Tricome Institute.
Before the break, we were talking about what interpreting is and what all the variable
quality data points are when truly looking at cannabis flower and judging its quality.
During the second set, we're going to talk about very specifically how these skills are
being cross-applied to judging cannabis cups.
Cannabis cups have been ridiculed since the very beginning for everything from taking
bribes to influence results or simply giving awards to their friends, and it's pretty much
ruined the reputation of most competitions.
In response to that, you have begun teaching cup event promoters in alternative judging
methods that are based much more on botany and data points instead of just the judge's
personal preference.
Why is this system better than traditional cannabis cup judging panels?
Okay.
So, yeah, let's just talk about, I guess, cannabis cups when describing this.
So if you put in a product in a traditional, let's just say, cup, they're really expensive,
and the competition is serious, and the reward is really meaningful because in this industry,
being able to prove that your product is better than the next guy's is your best method
of marketing in advertising, specifically in this industry and in many others.
But so it's important.
And so these judges and their judgments are making or breaking multimillion dollar businesses,
and that's important too.
That's a big deal.
And the people who deserve to win these things, it's important to celebrate their really hard
efforts, because it takes more than a decade to have the types of skills to win cups.
And if the way that we're judging them isn't accurate in ensuring that those who deserve
to win win, then we're celebrating people who we shouldn't be, and promoting more poor
quality products and cannabis in the industry.
All of this is really important stuff.
And so what you're starting out with is who are these judges, and what are their qualifications
for judging?
And I'm not going to name any names, but I'll just say the largest and probably oldest cannabis
magazine that we're all familiar with, you can actually pay to be a judge, a thousand
bucks.
So if your parents have enough money and you want to prove to your friends that you're
super cool, we now have people who don't even know what trichomes are, don't even know
what a calyx is, who think that the male anther is called a banana on cannabis.
Those are the people who are now going to determine whether your business deserves to
be rewarded or not and put in the scene.
And if it's not those people, then it's really qualified industry people.
And when you ask what does really qualified mean, it means they've grown cannabis a few
times and they've smoked it for five years.
It's like, okay, do you study technical textbooks on cannabis and all of these intricacies?
And what you find is that most people just aren't as dorky and nerdy as people who kind
of work at the Trichome Institute and who put together a lot of these data points in
these textbooks that we produce ourselves.
And so what we've done is in terms of starting out with who the judges are, you have to be
a really qualified judge.
And so you have to be an interpreter level three.
And so you have to be able to dissect and analyze cannabis quality and its psychotropic
spectrum in less than five minutes, whereas the level two test, which is the same test,
is an hour.
And you have to demonstrate that in multiple ways.
But you also have to learn the standard operating procedure of our grading scale for concentrates
and also things like trichome ripeness, trichome density, and then learning the subtle spectrum
that really takes a in-person teacher to teach you what the degree of pungency is.
That is something you can't learn online.
You have to spend critical time with someone.
And we've spent hours and hours and hours doing this with each other.
And so literally at the Dope Cup, when there was four, sometimes five, six of us interpreting,
utilizing the TAG program to do these judgings, it's just unbelievable how much time it takes
us.
We're up to like two or three in the morning doing this.
But the amount of hours that we've put in checking each other's work and cross-comparing
our evaluations to make sure that they fall within our parameters of inter-rater reliability
is intense.
It's really intense.
What are some of the data points that you as interpreters are looking at versus what
a normal judge would?
We've obviously established that a sommelier-level interpreter of cannabis has got more experience
and has studied it more than the average cannabis judge.
But I also believe that your system is going to be different.
I've seen some judging packets and some of the judging packets where they're doing the
ratings, they seem pretty fluffy to me.
And I know that you approach this from such a scientific and botanical background that
I would think that some of the data points that you are looking at are different than
traditional judging.
What might a couple of those be?
Super good question.
So for those who don't know TAG, it's a computer program that we built and it's a calculator.
And what it's doing is it's calculating numeric values that level three interpreters are giving
to a variety of different visual, olfactory, and consumption data points.
And so in most traditional cups, everything is subjective.
It's whatever that person thinks they like.
And usually they're liking it intoxicated.
And so this program, everything is analyzed in the exact same way, double blind twice.
And I guess some of the biggest differences of our data points is we do the entire grading
and calculation sober until we're done producing all of the report cards.
And then it comes the consumption aspect of the judging.
So we're judging all of your products sober.
95% of the judging is done sober.
And that's one of the biggest differences between the way that we judge in other cups.
But we smoke cannabis, we get down.
We're not just nerds.
We can puff tough and we do.
And so you have to be able to judge the consumption because it's unbelievable how tricky cannabis
can look.
It can look gorgeous.
It can look and actually have ripe, erect trichomes that have really pungent terpenes
and everything about that flower just looks sexy.
And then you take a hit and you're just coughing your brains out.
And your chest feels like hot spider webs.
And it's because this person didn't flush the bud at all.
And so all of the nutrients and chemicals of the six months going into this plant is
what you're smoking.
And so it looks ripe because it is.
And it smells good probably because it's in a defensive mode because it's so sick internally.
And you can't really see that.
And so when we're judging the degree of the flush, it's kind of like how wine sommeliers
take a sip of wine and spit it out.
We call it the Clinton.
The only time anybody would ever ingest cannabis and not inhale is Bill Clinton.
So sometimes there's a Clinton-ing aspect, especially when we're judging dozens and dozens
and dozens of concentrates and flowers that we can look at the report and mathematically
we know they're not going to win versus the other huge lumps and groups where, okay, these
25 to 30 people, one of these guys is going to win.
We'll definitely bring that entire hit into our lungs and feel the entirety of it down
our throat, the intensity of the heat, how much it makes our glands swell, the degree
of the salt on the side of our mouth, how thick is my saliva.
We really, I mean, we look at the ash.
I mean, we really analyze every piece.
And like I said, double blind twice.
And so that's probably the other biggest part of difference between the way we judge and
other people is we utilize a system that transfers the subjective into the objective.
And the system is inter-rater reliability.
And essentially what that means is, I keep saying double blind twice.
One, Dope Magazine gives us all of the samples without any strain name or grow or dispensary
operation.
So we literally just get a bag with a number on it.
So we're not allowed to have any bias.
And we don't know the species or the strain name.
And then once we do our grading and we go through our process, the grades, the reports
are then matched against each other's to other people.
And those grades have to be within three points of each other out of 100.
So I'm going to tell you this really incredible thing that happened at the cup that we didn't
expect to happen.
Actually there was a lot of that.
We can tell you some funny stories too about some of the cannabis we found.
Crazy stuff.
But we had no idea that five different cup entries from these companies took their best
flower and divided it into two different categories.
But it was the same flower.
And nobody told us this, right?
Because we're not allowed to know anything.
Right.
Double blind.
Right.
So outside of our cannabis quality certification, there's a lab that does the lab analysis.
And that's something we should also talk about is why the tag process is actually does do
a quality analysis over all mandated lab processes in all medical states and retail.
That's a big deal.
But the point is, is this lab did the chemotyping.
So the cannabinoid terpene analysis and the reports were identical for the five flowers
that were divided in two categories.
So a total of 10 buds.
And so when we learned that this happened, we were all like, oh shit.
Like this is going to be the ultimate test.
How well did we do?
And essentially the analogy for this is looking at a splatter painting and asking two people
to guess the number between one and 100 that they feel this painting deserves from a quality
perspective.
So is it an 87?
Is it a 64?
And so that's what we're doing.
We're taking two people and we're looking at a piece of cannabis under a microscope and
it looks like a splatter painting.
Right.
And all five samples that were divided twice, we got within our three points of each other.
That also says a lot about how you are training these interpreters, right?
Because we need to have the human element because we want to truly be able to judge
the different terpenes and how they blend and how they impact a human.
But at the same time, we want to make sure that everybody's judging using the same standards.
And so the fact that you've got these different samples and different interpreters and yet
they're still coming within 3% of each other, it's pretty amazing.
Now, hey, I've got one more question I want to ask before we go to break here.
So you're bringing in this whole new way of judging cups and it's going to push out people
paying to be judges, which is an income stream, and it's going to push out friends of the
promoter who got to be a judge because they're owed a favor or something.
And so this will really remake the cup scene.
To what degree have you had acceptance by A, promoters, and B, people who are competing?
Because I bet you that there's people on both sides.
Yeah.
Oh, man.
Trust me, it's not an easy thing to explain to someone that they're going to pay you
to grade their weed and then tell the world what you found.
Although we don't tell the world what we find.
We keep everything coded.
So if we do find bad product, we don't publish that.
So we're never going to put anybody down.
OK?
And I think that's a good thing to start with the tag program.
And then here's the thing.
In terms of the revenue stream for the companies that have paid judges, tell you what.
Instead of making money off of ensuring that your cup is going to be completely inaccurate
and probably pissing off all of the people who are paying you to have their samples judged
in the first place and giving your cup legitimacy, why don't you do education and training programs
associated with your cup to teach the public and the consumers and other growers
what cannabis really is, where it comes from, how it helps people, and develop a revenue stream
based off of producing more education for the people who are going to these cups.
Now, Max, I mean, I get this, right?
You and I are both cannabis nerds, and I get that.
Really, the heart of the question, though, is are promoters digging this or not?
I mean, that's really where I want to take this.
Are they going, hell yeah, I want to do this?
Or are people pushing back and saying, I don't want your science.
This is working out good for us.
What are you seeing?
So, I mean, so here's what we're seeing.
We're seeing that the majority of cannabis producers don't produce that high quality
of product.
There are fewer producers that produce high quality products, right?
So by default, there are a majority of people who would probably prefer a system that was
less accurate because they might have higher chances of winning, right?
But at the same time, people who really care about the industry and who get what the TAG
program can bring to cannabis really, really love it and truly respect it and really embrace it.
And so, you know, when I was in Oregon and I judged the Dope Cup in October, the amount
of growers who came up to me just pissed as shit.
Just, you know, who do you think you are grading our weed, judging our weed?
You're not even from our state.
You don't know anything, right?
I mean, it was a lot of people.
And I just sat down and I just said, look, I'm going to explain to you how I do this
before you start hating on me.
And when I just explained to them how it works, they all just flipped the switch instantly
and said, thank you for doing this.
This is what our industry has needed.
Where have you been the whole time?
And now I'm really good friends with these growers.
And so, you know, Dope Magazine has embraced it more than any other company so far.
But other companies who do cannabis competitions have started asking us about the program,
but they kind of run their competitions in their own way.
So I would say that a lot of producers and promoters really appreciate the fact that
there is a real competition and that it's possible and people who deserve to win are
winning and that it's fair and that it's even.
So even if you lose, at least it wasn't because, you know, some stoner who didn't know what
they were doing about graded your cannabis and you lost because of that.
At least, you know, you can go back and analyze your report and compare it to other people's
and learn why you didn't win and improve yourself from it.
That's what's happening.
And similarly, it creates a paper trail so that people aren't feeling like they're
losing because there was a special donation made behind the scenes, which cannabis cups
are constantly being charged with.
So, hey, we're going to go to our second break and read right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
And my guest today is Max Montrose, founder of the Tricome Institute.
Businesses everywhere are constantly striving to reach out to people through advertising.
We all know, though, that trying to reach a cannabis audience with a quality message
is pretty difficult.
That's why many people choose to advertise on the Shaping Fire podcast.
Advertising on this show allows us time to talk about your product, service, or brand
in a way that really lets people know what sets your company apart from others.
Bold people who own companies know that getting in a relationship with their customers is
essential.
That is what we offer.
We will explain your service or product and what sets it apart as desirable and help our
audience get in contact with you.
It's pretty simple, really.
Advertising does not have to be all whiz-bang, smoke, and mirrors.
Nowadays, I find that people prefer just to be spoken to calmly, accurately, and with
good intentions.
If you want to make your own commercial spot, you can do that, too.
Because the podcast is young but growing at an exceptionally fast rate, if you become
an advertiser on the Shaping Fire podcast now, you are going to pay a fraction of the
cost we will be asking for in just a few months.
Yet, everyone listening both now and to the back catalog of interviews later will hear
about your company again and again for years.
It's a great deal for you.
Pay a small amount now because the show is new, but take advantage of the huge listening
audience we will have forever.
Do yourself a solid and contact us today for rates on podcast and newsletter advertising.
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out more.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shangelos.
Our guest this week is Max Montrose, founder and president of the Tricome Institute.
Before we wrap up here, Max, you've alluded a couple times to these unexpected stories
that you have come across while grading cannabis at cannabis cups.
Most probably, everybody who's listening has either been interested in, attended, or
wish they attended a cup.
So why don't you bring a lot of this science home for us and tell us a couple of these
outlier funny stories that you've been alluding to to kind of make us feel like we've been
sitting in your seat.
Sure.
So, you know, we just got back from the Seattle Dope Cup.
You know, the edible category, it's an interesting one to judge and we don't have too much time,
so I'm not going to go into how we get into the technicalities of judging that.
But it's really unbelievable how delicious and awesome the amount of edible products
are.
It's just mind blowing how just fantastic almost all of them are.
Up until the point where you get, you know, some companies who, I'm not going to mention
the type of drink, but I'm not kidding.
We were literally spitting some of the stuff out in the sink left and right and as judges
trying to get each other to like drink it as a joke.
And just, it's just unbelievable.
You know, some of those just wild cards that pop in there, but more than the drink and
all of those drinks from that company was one of these flowers that was entered in the
THC category, which is generally judged for the highest THC.
But not always because we're judging quality and THC doesn't equate to quality.
And so we come across this bud and we have, we were, we've literally been, we've never
been so astonished by a piece of flower in our lives.
And on the report, which we're going to publish on our website soon, it literally says this
is the worst piece of cannabis we've ever seen ever.
And it smells like a glade plug in.
It smells like just raw chemicals.
It's brown and it disintegrates in a dust in your hand.
And when you look at the trichomes under the microscope, they're like really are none.
And there are, looks like bugs and fecal matter as well as a lot of these black weird things
we can't identify and dust particles and other things.
And so it was literally like, I can't even describe, I have no analogy for how, what
this thing was.
But it was really interesting because when you get the HPLC report from the lab,
this is a flower that has 47% THC.
Get out.
47%.
47%.
Oh man, that leaves me skeptical, man.
Hold on, hold your horses Shane.
So we look around at each other and we're just like, what the fuck is this?
Like, how is this possible?
Like, seriously, what is this?
And we talked to the lab and they just said, they were like, look, obviously somebody soaked
this flower in hash oil.
And whatever chemically hash oil that was more, you know, viscous than not, it has to
be more like water probably had some chemical on it.
That is why it smells like a glade plug in.
But you know, we're looking at this thing and that is what they did.
So they thought that they were going to win first place for the highest THC because essentially
they cheated by soaking a flower in THC oil.
That's like the next level compared to people who would roll their flowers in keef, you
know, before submitting them.
Yeah.
Correct.
Yeah.
And then tried to hide that they did this because like, it wasn't like sticky hash oil
on the bud.
You couldn't see the oil, just the flower.
But the flower was like tan and brown and smelled horrible and disintegrated, like I
said.
So anyways, long story short, we were just like, you think you're going to win first
place?
Annihilated.
It said, you know, we just don't appreciate.
I hope you don't sell this like to the public.
I hope this isn't really a product that you make and that this is more of like a joke
and your attempt to try to win a cannabis cup because at the end of the day, it's not
funny.
Like that was some of the most disgusting shit we've ever seen.
And it was offensive.
It was bad.
But I'll tell you, but on a good note to end on a positive note, because we're aggregating
data in the way that we are, we have an opportunity where we're literally analyzing the
collectiveness of what makes Oregon cannabis, Oregon cannabis, what makes Colorado cannabis,
Colorado cannabis.
And these are different, almost like countrywide appellations.
And then within those, there are Tewa.
And so this really is an interpreting sommelier analysis, but at a state level.
And we were just completely blown away, fascinated, and also quickly bored by the fact that 98%
of every flower we smelled in the competition smelled like a diesel.
Every one, every single one was Gorilla Glue number four or sour diesel.
These are really high in terpenelein, a gas like smell that produces a really racy kind
of high effect.
Fuels are really popular around here, especially since we have a hard time getting them, right?
Because a lot of the Northwest is Indica's, you know?
Well, so the thing is, is I was talking with a gentleman who works in the area and what
he said was really intelligent, which was a lot of the diesel varietals, for whatever
reason, have been known to resist mold better than other strains.
And so because Seattle and in that area is just covered in water and rain and wetness
all the time, that there's really a majority of a type of strain that has a better chance
of surviving.
And it happens to be these high terpenelein diesel-like varietals.
And so the geography and the requirement to have mold resistant strains in that geography
is important.
And if that's the case, that's what we analyzed.
Looking at over 200 flower samples, literally 98% of them smelled almost identical.
They were all just different little subtle versions of diesel, diesel, diesel.
And I got bored quick.
But it was really interesting.
It was really fascinating.
Yeah, that really is interesting.
I had not considered that because, you know, a lot of times we don't get sativa around
here just simply because if they're grown indoor, people don't want to spend the extra
light hours to finish a sativa.
And good luck finishing a sativa outdoor anywhere here in the Northwest.
But that makes sense because if they've got if they're naturally resistant to mold,
people will certainly keep the lights on longer for that.
Yeah.
Right on. Cool.
Well, I know that you could probably do an entire show just on the same topic again.
But our time is up for today.
We're going to have you back another time in a few weeks, though, to talk about the
very interesting stories that you've got to share about beating cannabis DUIs and how
you're being flown around the country to be an expert witness.
So so I look forward to having you back again soon, Max.
Awesome.
Well, thanks so much, Inga.
Max Montrose is founder of Tricome Institute.
You can find out more and register for interpreting courses at tricomeinstitute.com.
You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the show at
shapingfire.com and on Apple iTunes, Stitcher and Google Play.
If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it if you'd leave a positive review of the
podcast wherever you download.
Your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it, too.
On the Shaping Fire website, you can also subscribe to the weekly newsletter for insights
into the latest cannabis news and product reviews.
On the Shaping Fire website, you will also find transcripts of today's podcast as well.
For information on me and where I'll be speaking, you can check out shangolose.com.
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire.
I've been your host, Shango Lose.
