It annoys me so much when prohibitionists try to tell me there is something wrong with
cannabis. I have to practice calmness in the face of this idiocy. So you can imagine my
frustration when reports began being published that some cannabis users were becoming weak
and nauseous with abdominal pain and in need of hot showers because of their heavy cannabis
use. But then, as someone who attracts cannabis patients like I do, I learned that there really
seemed to be something going on because of an increasing number of cases being called
cannabis hyperemesis syndrome in the community, yet I remain skeptical and curious.
Cannabis social media was apoplectic about CHS and arguments about if it existed and
if it was caused by neem or eagle 20 or any other additive were really common.
This week, lead author Dr. Ethan Russo has released the first original research on cannabis
hyperemesis syndrome and they have discovered the genetic markers behind CHS. An understanding
of what triggers the expression of those genetics is vital, and cannabis is clearly one of them.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, business, and technique efficiently and with
good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter. We'll send you new podcast
episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox along with commentary on a couple
of the most important news items from the week and videos too. Don't rely on social
media to let you know when a new episode is published. Sign up for the updates to make
sure you don't miss an episode. Also, we're giving away very cool prizes to folks who
are signed up to receive the newsletter. There's nothing else you need to do to win except receive
that newsletter, so go to shapingfire.com to sign up for the newsletter this week and
be entered into this month's and all future newsletter prize drawings.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I'm your host, Shango Los. Today my guest is Dr.
Ethan Russo. Ethan Russo is a board certified neurologist and former senior medical advisor
to GW Pharmaceuticals. He served as study physician to GW Pharmaceuticals for three
phase three clinical trials of Sativex. He has held faculty appointments in pharmaceutical
sciences at the University of Montana, in medicine at the University of Washington,
and as visiting professor at the Chinese Academy of Sciences. He has been president
of the International Cannabinoid Research Society and is former chairman of the International
Association for Cannabinoid Medicines. In 1995, he pursued a three month sabbatical
doing ethnobotanical research with indigenous people in Peru. Dr. Ethan Russo is author
of several books of cannabis medicine and has published over 30 articles in neurology,
brain management, cannabis, and ethnobotany. Dr. Russo has joined us before on Shaping
Fire, episode 22 on treating traumatic brain injury with cannabis and mushrooms, and episodes
11 and 27 about his famous research papers on cannabinoids and terpenoids, and episode
number 67 about treating migraines with mushrooms and cannabis. And of course, the Shaping Fire
sessions on the Shaping Fire YouTube channel. Today we offer Dr. Russo's first public interview
on the results of his groundbreaking paper on cannabis hyperemesis syndrome.
Welcome back to Shaping Fire, Ethan.
Thanks for having me.
Well, let's start out by getting a little bit of context. While there's been a lot of
social media discussion for what would become known as cannabinoid hypermesis syndrome in
the last three years, the original index case, way before it was named, goes all the way
back to 1996. How has interest in this syndrome increased over these 25 years or so?
Well, it has a great deal. There's been increasing recognition of it, so that diagnosis has become
a little bit better, although it still remains the case that people that have it often have
to go through many hospitalizations or ER visits before it's identified. It is increasingly
common in relation to more potent material, meaning that cannabis being higher in THC.
But overall, it still would have to be considered an uncommon condition, but one that is important
to recognize.
That original case back in 1996, what about it made it stand out? I mean, that's some
time ago. At the time, did they just say, oh, this person got really high and therefore
we're going to tie this to THC? Or was it not even originally tied to THC?
It was not. But basically, this was in Australia and it was published along with about eight
other cases only in 2004. So it was only after a series of patients who were high cannabis
users and were with close questioning that the pattern was identified and recognized.
So over these 25 years or so, what do you think was the main feature that caused the
interest to increase? Was it just simply the increased use of cannabis and therefore there
were just statistically more cases of it and so there was more ability to look at it? Or
was there some change in scientific policy or a particular grant that broke the right
way? What has increased the interest in it where people are actually looking at it now?
It goes along with liberalization of cannabis laws in many jurisdictions, but most particularly
with the increasing availability of high-potency material such as in vape pens and concentrates.
So that's a factor, but again, there's the recognition factor. It all enters into the
equation.
I see. Multiple things happening at the same time making for this opportunity to look at
it.
Sure.
Right on. So, hyperamnesia syndrome is described mostly, or at least up until now, as a bad
basket of symptoms, a basket of these common symptoms. Would you describe them for us?
Yeah, absolutely. It's a very stereotyped syndrome. So what it includes are cycles of
severe nausea, vomiting, and abdominal pain, but they're accompanied by a very characteristic
finding that is of the patients who are afflicted with it engaging in hot showers and bathing
almost in a compulsive fashion, sometimes hours a day. So that is really what we call
the pathognomonic sign, the sign that clinches it when it's combined with the other symptoms.
So is it because... well, it's interesting that you would say hot showers. We're not
talking cold showers because they might have a fever or something. They want hot showers.
Does the afflicted patient know why they want to take hot showers? What's their motivation?
Why do they think they want to go take a hot shower?
Usually people are not aware of the condition and that this is an accoutrement of it. They
may just notice on a day when they're having abdominal pain and nausea that the time they're
in the shower they feel better temporarily. Humans notice patterns and eventually they
come to realize that this is making them feel better and they pursue it sometimes hours
a day. It's a frequent occurrence that the hot water runs out. And then eventually they
end up in the emergency room with an extensive evaluation.
When you say that the syndrome has got stereotyped syndrome, that sounds like the medical use
of the term stereotype. I didn't hear you describe any kind of stoner stereotypes.
What does stereotype symptoms mean?
It means in this instance that you see the same thing throughout. So if someone has this
syndrome, they're going to have all these features. Nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain,
and the hot shower behavior or bathing behavior.
In contrast, say for example if we were talking about lupus, where yeah it's another basket
of symptoms, but of the 30 symptoms somebody might have their particular 4 or 5. So instead
of a mix and match, pretty much everybody has most of these symptoms, if not all of
them.
That's exactly right. The vast majority of people are going to manifest all of these
four features.
Has anybody died yet?
Yeah, unfortunately there have been two clear cases. This was not related to a person's
overdose per se, rather they died of complications of the vomiting. If someone vomits repeatedly,
eventually it's going to cause chemical imbalances, problems with the electrolytes, the minerals
in the blood. There have been two documented cases of deaths and a question and a third.
There may have been others, but there have been two reported.
Let's look at the symptoms from a slightly different perspective. As we've talked about
them so far, we've been talking about these established stereotyped symptoms. We're able
to look at them in hindsight. Can you give us a first-person perspective of the patient
and what they would experience? What are the first ones to come on and how can a patient
delineate between these and smoking while they have the flu? How do they know when they
should be thinking about this?
Let's set up an archetypal patient. This presents in phases.
Cannabis hyperamnesis or hyperamnesis syndrome is going to appear in someone who uses cannabis.
Usually it's going to be a high volume user, most often of high potency material, meaning
high in THC, and on a regular basis, most often daily or more than daily.
But the phases are these. There's what's called a prodrome. This means an initial stage where
while people are using cannabis, they may develop nausea and vomiting along with anxiety
and some sweating behavior. Things that go along with stress.
The second phase is clearer. This is going to have the hyperamnesis along with the abdominal
pain and the hot water bathing.
And then the third is recovery, which happens only following abstinence. Basically, as long
as someone continues to use cannabis, even in lower amounts, they're usually going to
be at risk for having episodic attacks of a similar nature.
When we're talking about the volume of THC that is required, and we'll talk about some
of the other requirements or what we are seeing along with the THC, but specifically on the
THC, you're saying high amounts. You're saying that we're seeing more of this as
flour is getting stronger and we're doing concentration and high THC edibles.
Does it matter if somebody smokes a little low THC flour every day versus somebody who
dabs on the weekends? Maybe over the course of the week, they're going to get the same
amount of THC, but in one time, you're going to get it all at once and the other person
is going to get a little bit every day. I'm trying to understand the nature of the threshold.
Yeah, well that's going to vary with the individual. Unfortunately, once the syndrome has become
established, the threshold is not very high. For example, if someone's been in remission
after abstinence from cannabis for a while, we find that they often will resume pretty
soon afterwards, not long. It usually goes along with establishing again some degree
of tolerance. When somebody begins to escalate their dose to achieve their desired level
of high, often they'll have a recurrence. To mention your example, this could occur
in either context, the low volume user during the week or the dabber during the weekend.
I'm afraid there'd be no guarantees. People can try to skirt the edges of this, but they're
usually quite unsuccessful.
Sure, sure. I can imagine that. We'll talk a lot more about the genetic makeup of these
patients during the second set, but I would think that at the top of that list would be
who dabs every day because these are the people in our community who are getting the highest
amounts of THC every day.
Quite true.
How about with edibles as well? We know that the mode of using THC matters a lot for a
whole range of body responses. Are people who are taking high levels of THC from edibles
having these experiences as well?
They certainly may. In our survey, people had mixed methods of administration, but most
prevalent were either smoking a flower or high-potency inhalation by whatever method.
That was the most frequent. There's nothing to say that using an edible would prevent
this. In fact, it's going to be tough for someone who's in the midst of an episode of
susceptibility to keep material down in an edible.
The fact that this research was done as a survey plus a genetic portion of it, it's
interesting because it shows two sides of the coin. On one side, you're asking people
about their use. On the second side, you're actually taking a look at their genetics
to find out what you can find in common.
I can't help but have some amount of awareness that people don't usually want to talk about
their cannabis use because it's historically being prohibited and taboo.
Could you explain how the survey functions? You and I have talked off-mic about this before.
You've got a lot of good feels and a lot of confidence in the information that you're
getting from these surveys. I think we'd all like to understand how that works when the
basis of the survey is asking questions.
Yes, sure. First of all, this is all anonymized. If you asked me who was in it, I couldn't
tell you except for a couple of people who have told me themselves after the fact. Great
pains were taken to protect people's identities, especially in the instance of taking their
genetic material. It's a highly formalized procedure of ensuring that that information
can't escape.
The other layer of protection was that this went through what's called an institutional
review board, an ethics committee, to ensure that there'd be no danger to patients. That
includes being identified when they do not wish to be.
Is it hard to communicate this safety idea to people who are doing a study on something
that may even be illegal where they live?
It sure has been in the past. A little bit less now with the liberalization of laws,
but it remains an issue, absolutely.
I like your use of the word liberalization of laws. I hadn't heard anybody use that before.
A lot of people use legalization or normalization, but liberalization is yet a different way
to put it, which is not the other two. I don't think the other two really fit what we're
experiencing yet. I like that. I think I'll use that myself.
Did you reach out to these people because they were showing symptoms and you reached
out to them through healthcare providers, or did you just put a big call out to everybody
and people who identified with the nausea and the hot showers, just kind of self-identified?
Yeah, more the latter. It was systematized. I sent this to various listservs related to
cannabis, to physicians who have an interest in cannabis. We also reached out to emergency
departments and gastroenterologists. We contacted people who had previously been authors of
studies of CHS. It was put on social media as well. There were a variety of methods of
outreach, but people could only come to it if they self-identified as being interested
in the study.
Right on. I want to go into the THC survey aspect and the genetics aspect in the same
set so that we can talk about all of that at once. Let's go ahead and take our first
short break and be right back. You are listening to Shaping Fire, and my guest today is Dr.
Ethan Russo, neurologist and cannabis researcher.
Over the years, Shaping Fire has been invited to sponsor several cannabis cups, and I've
said no to them all. It wasn't until the Auto Flower Cup that I really wanted to help promote
something, and the producers, Sebastian and Carla, didn't even invite me. I approached
them. I told them that Auto Flower Cup was important to me for three reasons. First,
it was obvious that they were going for a friends and family vibe instead of some sort
of commodified cannabis vibe. This event was going to gather really cool folks. Second,
the event had a ton of cool stuff to do and to learn and to participate in. The event
isn't just about cannabis. It's about living life fully, enjoying community, eating together,
laughing and listening to music, and mushrooms. Third, and most important to me personally,
the event was authentically for the auto flower community, and the auto flower community needs
a place too. Auto flower is about getting high, sure, but I find that much of the auto
flower community is still focused on cannabis patients, home grow, sharing best practices,
sharing seeds, and humility. These are the ideals that I share with the event, and I
wanted to make sure I did my part to help it succeed. Announcing the 2021 Auto Flower
Cup, August 6th, 7th, and 8th in Lilloop, Washington, just outside of Seattle. This
over 21 event is presented by Camp Rooterallis. The auto flower competition is open to everyone,
commercial and home growers. So get your skills recognized and enter today. A cup win now
will make you a leader in the community. Here comes the ear candy, Stundin Glass Hookah
Lounge, Pop-Up Magical Butter Chocolate Shop, Waterfront Marketplace with an array of vendors.
There will be an old school auto flower seed swap, joint rolling competition, cannabis
cooking demos, solventless squishing demos, and late night documentary screenings of fantastic
fungi. Chef Sebastian Carosi's award winning classics like Elk Chili, Kobe Beef Kimchi
Dogs, Oyster Po' Boys, and Razor Clam Chowder. Wild oyster harvesting, mushroom foraging,
s'mores around the campfires each night. Dan Jimmy of Mandalorian presentations, Psilocybin
Mushrooms presentations, camping, glamping, RVs, and Airbnb. So check out camprooterallis.com
for those details and follow the Instagram at the auto flower cup 2021.
Sometimes the topics I want to share with you are far too brief for an entire Shaping
Fire episode. In those instances, I post them to Instagram. I invite you to follow
my two Instagram profiles and participate online. The Shaping Fire Instagram has follow
up posts to Shaping Fire episodes, growing and processing best practices, product trials,
and of course gorgeous flower photos. The Shango Lowe's Instagram follows my travels
on cannabis garden tours, my successes and failures in my own garden, insights and best
practices from personal grows everywhere, and always gorgeous flower photos. On both
profiles, the emphasis is on sharing what I've learned in a way that you can replicate
it in your own garden, your own hash lab, or for your own cannabinopathic health. So
I encourage you to follow at Shaping Fire and at Shango Lowe's and join our online
community on Instagram.
With the National Hemp Program influx due to stringent THC testing requirements,
Brother Seth and Eric Crawford continue to release seeds to hemp farmers that will be legal,
no matter how you grow them or when you test them. These new varieties from Oregon CBD
seeds have substantial amounts of CBDV, CBGV, CBCV, and THCV, while always staying below
the 0.3% THC limit and guaranteeing compliant crops for farmers every time. Also, these
new varieties cannot be pollinated by your neighbor's uncontrolled pollen or a rogue
male in your own crop either. Oregon CBD seeds are non-GMO certified too. Oregon CBD seeds
was founded and funded in 2015 by Seth and Eric, maxing out their personal credit cards
without outside investment. They continued to refuse outside investment that would change
their company culture. Oregon CBD grows tons of fresh food on their research farms for
local food banks. Literally tons of food. They also give away tens of thousands of pounds
of R&D flour to patients. As their company began to succeed, Seth and Eric started donating
money to the Cannabis Medicine and Hemp Fiber Cause too by giving millions of dollars to
Oregon State University in order to establish the world's leading cannabis genomics research
program. And they treat their employees right. Oregon CBD pays for full health and dental
coverage for their employees, a 401k program, and their minimum starting wage is $20 an
hour. Plus everyone shares food from the farms. Seth has been on Shaping Fire a few times
to talk about novel cannabinoids. You can check out episodes 25 and 37 on CBD cultivars
in the hemp market, episode 66 on triploid cannabis genetics, and the very first Shaping
Fire Live, episode 47 with Seth and soil expert Jeff Lowenfels talking about autoflowers.
If you are a hemp farmer and you want to grow reliable seeds that are sure to thrive in past
testing, check out OregonCBDCeeds.com to learn more about buying seeds for the 2021 season.
That's OregonCBDCeeds.com.
Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire. I'm your host, Shangolos. And our guest
this week is neurologist and cannabis researcher, Dr. Ethan Russo. So let's dive into the first
half of this paper, which is about the survey, about talking to cannabis users about their
usage of cannabis generally, but more specifically, you're trying to tease out THC. How did you
go about asking the questions, Ethan? What were you trying to pull out of them? And after
they answered, what did you see in the results?
Sure. Well, it was a large series of questions, as you've seen and will be evident in the
paper, because we include links to the entire survey, both the CHS patients and the controls.
So we went through simply saying, have you used cannabis in the last year? How often?
How much a day? What type? By what method? Etc. etc. until we got the answers we wanted.
But we started out with 585 respondents. Of that, there were 205 patients who had the
constellation of symptoms of cannabinoid hyperemesis syndrome and carried a diagnosis.
So we were being very careful about who we selected for the study. We needed medical
confirmation plus ongoing symptoms. So that's how you get from 585 to 205.
Of that group, most were very high frequency users of cannabis. 91% used daily or multiple
times a day. And as we mentioned, it was a high amount. Cannabis flower concentrates,
the median response was 4 grams a day of THC predominant material.
Other features of the CHS patients. 15.6% carried a diagnosis of either cannabis dependency
or addiction. So that's much higher than you'd expect in other populations.
And to corroborate that, almost 57% had experienced withdrawal symptoms from cannabis,
which was also uncharacteristic. Now on the good side, when people stopped, like they might have
gone to the emergency room and told they had to stop using cannabis, 87.7% improved after they
stopped. But almost all suffered a recurrence when they resumed. Now a big problem in this study
was finding out who do we compare these people to. We couldn't just use normal people who didn't
use cannabis because we wouldn't know if they had a susceptibility to developing cannabis
hyperemesis syndrome if they hadn't used it in similar amounts. So we found controls, so called,
who were high volume users of cannabis but did not have CHS. So we ended up with 54 of those.
And in the survey information, all of them had used within a year. 70% were daily or more than daily,
and again, mostly by smoking THC predominant material. Now in contrast to the CHS patients,
only 3.7% had been labeled as cannabis addicted or dependent, and the vast majority, 76%,
had never had withdrawal symptoms. Only 11% had been told that they needed to stop cannabis for health reasons.
So we felt that this was a good comparison group. And so these two pools, the 205 patients with CHS
that was confirmed, they had all the symptoms, they had ongoing symptoms, they had a diagnosis from a
physician, and 54 controls. All of these people were offered the option of having their genomes tested.
This is done by a swab in the mouth, and through the technology, that sample is amplified so that we can
look at all the base pairs of the genetic sequence and see if there are any unusual patterns.
So that's how it was done. Now that really whittled things down. Although 99 patients from the CHS group
agreed to get a test kit, only 28% returned it.
That seems especially low.
Yeah, well, especially after they said they were willing to do it, but we actually had a little bit of pushback
from the CHS community. There were people that questioned our motives. There were some people that said
you shouldn't do this study. And so it was very difficult. It took us a year of recruitment to get our sample,
which ended up being 28 CHS patients and 12 controls.
Were people pushing back because it was being sponsored by a private company instead of an academic institution?
Well, it could have been a factor. But let's make something clear, and I don't know how to say this except
telling the truth. It's going to sound accusatory. But people with CHS tend to be very suspicious.
And many people who have it don't believe that it's related to their cannabis usage. I mean, after all,
everyone knows that cannabis is supposed to be good for nausea and vomiting. So how could it be creating this problem?
Well, in fact, THC is an antiemetic, something that helps prevent vomiting. But it's also subject to what's called
a biphasic dose response. What that means is, at low doses, THC will prevent nausea and vomiting to some degree,
hopefully a lot. But at high doses, it flips its activity and can be pro-emetic, meaning making vomiting more likely.
Plus there are other considerations. When someone uses cannabis to this extent, they have tolerance.
And part of tolerance is that the CB1 receptors in the brain, where THC works, down-regulate. They sort of fold in.
It's the brain's way of saying, too much activity here, we've got to turn down the volume.
So there are all these things that may be coming into play, as well as the metabolism, the breakdown of THC
that we had to consider. As we discuss the results, this will become more clear.
So you sent out these 99 kits and ended up buying about 25% of people responded.
Did you see enough in the data where you were able to get what you wanted, even though you got less participation?
We believe so. The proof of something medical is in the statistics.
So what we want to see to make something statistically significant is what's called a P-value, probability value of 5% or less.
What that means is that the results that are seen could only happen by chance 1 in 20 times or less.
And so we achieved that with several examples. Obviously, it would have been better to have more patients, but that again proved very difficult.
It wasn't just the pushback from the community. There are a lot of people who don't want their chromosomes tested.
They've heard of situations of people getting arrested, not because they had their genetic profile done, but their cousin did.
Somehow, law enforcement found their way to the person in question.
There have been some high-profile cases solved recently related to this technology.
I can see that. As far as a patient having hyperemesis syndrome, it seems like after reading the paper, we're talking about two things that have to both happen.
Number one, the cannabis user needs to have a high overall use of THC, which appears to be predominant daily, and that they're using more than 4 grams of high-THC material a day.
Of course, while that's a big swing between 4 grams of flour versus 4 grams of oil, one way or another, you're at a high level as far as the overall users in the United States.
4 grams of flour a day, while not necessarily incredibly high for a lot of people I know, if we take the pool of all cannabis users, it's actually exceptionally high.
It is. I would emphasize that lower levels of use could also lead to problems in someone who's susceptible.
Right on.
But this will vary.
Alright, then let's get to that susceptibility part.
The first part is, more or less, you take in a lot of THC, but that has to be coordinated with someone's genetic predisposition.
This part of the paper unraveling the genetic makeup, I can admit to the fact that it's a bit over my head, but luckily, you break it down to there's pretty much five places that popped up for you that showed some correlation.
Would you go through, as you see fit, the five sites and what you learned from those sites?
Sure, I'd be happy to, but let's start off with one that we suspected that didn't turn out to have a pattern, at least in the patients that we examined.
That would be a gene called CNR1. That's the gene that encodes the CB1 receptor. CB1 is where THC works and the endogenous cannabinoids work.
This has been examined before in relation to other disorders.
What we're looking for is often what are called single nucleotide polymorphisms.
This is a way of saying that there is a change in one pair of these base pairs in DNA.
There's been some correlation of mutations on CNR1, the CB1 receptor gene, related to cannabis usage, but we didn't see that pattern in the cannabinoid hyperemesis syndrome patients.
There's a disorder that's sometimes confused with CHS called CVS. That's cyclic vomiting syndrome.
This is actually different. This is often something that appears in childhood, but may persist into adulthood.
People have episodes of vomiting that come out of the blue. It seems to be related to a propensity for migraine.
Sometimes this starts off with a child who has episodic vomiting without a headache, and it's only when they're older that they get the headaches.
CVS, cyclic vomiting syndrome, has become more confused with CHS because in CVS people use cannabis to advantage to treat the nausea and vomiting.
But in cyclic vomiting syndrome, there have been mutations in the CNR1 gene that have been observed.
This is another point of distinction. I wanted to start there where we expected a finding, but it wasn't there.
But it still is useful because we can differentiate this from cyclic vomiting syndrome.
Got it. It creates a nice point of contrast.
Sure. Now, what did we find?
Well, we'll start off with a gene called COMT. That is short for a mouthful. Catechol-O-Methyltransferase.
COMT is the gene that codes for an enzyme that breaks down catecholamines, especially dopamine.
So these are neurotransmitters in the brain and elsewhere.
So what we saw was a mutation in the COMT, and this occurred in 57.1% of the CHS patients, but only 10% of controls.
So that had what's called a p-value of .012.
So that's well below the .05 threshold that makes something statistically significant from a medical standpoint.
And it had what's called an odds ratio of 12, which is quite wide as compared to the controls.
So what do we know about this mutation?
Well, when COMT has a loss of function, you have too much dopamine, and an excess of that is associated with a number of different problems,
like compulsive behavior, and that can be anything from substance abuse, gambling, even sex addiction, have been related to this.
This specific mutation that we saw is called RS464-6316.
I'm sorry, let me do that again. RS464-6316.
In prior studies, this has been related to depression, what's called rumination behavior, where people can't get something out of their head, they ruminate about it,
and also heavy alcohol intake at a younger age.
And that is a feature in our survey that we saw in CHS patients, that a lot of them had problems with alcohol at one point in their life or not.
Other mutations on this gene have been associated with impulsive behavior, disinhibited behavior,
also some associations with attention deficit, obsessive-compulsive disorder, and I'm afraid a tendency towards anxiety and even psychosis.
So, it doesn't mean that somebody who has CHS has all these things, but we have seen similar problems in this population.
It means that they're more likely to have these kinds of problems.
But certainly, this finding provides some insight into some of the things, the epiphenomena, the features that we see in CHS patients.
Alright, so is that complete on the COMT?
Is that everything? Do you want to move on to the next one?
Sure.
Alright, let's do that.
Well, the next one is one that I predicted.
One of the features of CHS is, one of the things that seems to help, of course, is the heat.
Also, use of capsaicin ointment on the skin.
Capsaicin is the caustic part of chili peppers.
Some time ago, it was noticed that when people had application of an ointment with a lot of capsaicin in it,
that it would reduce the nausea and vomiting, at least temporarily.
So, what the hot showers and the capsaicin have in common is that they're working through another receptor called the TRPV1 receptor.
And we saw a mutation there, and that was something we predicted.
So, 71.5% of the CHS patients had this, and only 30% in controls.
So, that's a p-value of .015, below the .05 threshold, and an odds ratio of 5.8.
So, this gene has been linked to anxiety and pain responses in the brain,
and it also has activity on areas of the brain that relate to how fast or slow your gut is moving,
on how much fluid is secreted.
So, it has a definite tie-in to nausea mechanisms.
Now, as far as we know so far, the TRPV1 mutations haven't been observed previously when we've looked at patients with cannabis dependency.
Now, our finding on this specific mutation may be a new one, because it wasn't in the usual databases of genetic changes.
So, this one is called RSH79207.
But certainly, the findings that we got suggest a linkage of cannabinoid hyperemesis syndrome to mood and gut disturbances,
as well as, obviously, the hot water bathing behavior.
And it, again, goes along with the success of using capsaicin on the skin.
That TRPV1 receptor is really important in this disorder.
Is capsaicin a common input into topical lotions?
I haven't personally come across it before, though it could be very common.
When I heard that people were using that, and they're like, oh, this works for me, I'm like, I would never have even tried that.
Sure. Well, you know, it's funny, because it burns when you put it on.
It's like chili peppers.
I should point out, though, that absorption of capsaicin orally is not very good.
People have eaten Thai food that was too hot, sometimes it'll burn on the way in and on the way out.
It's not getting into the bloodstream.
But it does get into the bloodstream through the skin, as opposed to cannabinoids.
So we know that you can get blood levels this way.
Interesting.
Yeah, that is interesting.
Is there anything else that you want to mention on this particular site?
No, I think that's good for now.
We actually saw mutations in another area of the same gene, but it didn't quite reach statistical significance.
Is it the kind of thing where you highlighted it, and it's worthwhile to look later on?
Oh, you bet.
Do you want to tell us a little bit about it, even though for this study it's not statistically significant?
Sure. It's something we're going to keep in the back of our minds as we get more people tested.
Maybe it will achieve statistical significance at some point.
And certainly, if a person ends up having a mutation on two areas of the same gene,
it increases the likelihood that it isn't going to work properly, and that there will be attendant problems.
In other words, disease manifestations.
Right on.
So what is this other site?
Oh, it's just a different area of the same gene.
Oh, I see. So you just saw the correlation number was high, but you didn't take it to the next level to figure out what it might be doing there yet, because the numbers were too low.
Right. It's something to keep an eye on in the future.
Alright, well then what's our next site?
Next one also makes some good sense.
This is the CYP2C9 gene.
So this is a gene that's in the cytochrome P450 series.
These are enzymes that break down drugs and toxins in the liver.
As it turns out, CYP2C9 is the breakdown enzyme for THC and its first metabolite, 11-hydroxy-THC.
So if there's a problem with this gene, it may mean that THC doesn't get broken down as readily.
So we saw a mutation in the CHS patients in 46.4% and only 10% of controls.
So the pVLU wasn't quite as dramatic, but it was still .043, which is below .05.
So if we think about this conceptually, if this enzyme is not as functional as it should be,
it could lead to accumulation of THC and get into that biphasic dose response,
where THC instead of becoming anti-emetic becomes pro-emetic.
Or it's even possible, because the enzyme isn't quite right,
that it's making a different metabolite than usual.
Instead of 11-hydroxy-THC, it's possible, probably unlikely,
but it's possible that it's making a different product that could have toxic effects.
Now, to help us out here, just a couple of months ago,
there was a new study where a single patient got tested,
and they had two sites on CYP2C19 that were off.
That was a CHS patient who was cannabis-dependent,
and they said had a personality disorder as well.
They didn't provide a lot of detail on that.
So this is something that's been seen at least one other time.
But our study was the first to look at it systematically.
The idea that this CYP2C19 is where THC gets broken down,
am I thinking about this correctly?
If I were to think of it as, okay, normally when we use THC,
it is cleared from our body in three to four hours,
or at least from the usable flow in three to four hours.
And so, with this site not working effectively,
it would just simply either A,
break down THC in longer than three or four hours,
so there's almost like a half-life,
because you'd already be smoking your next smoke
before all your prior THC is processed.
Or, maybe it's and-or,
the THC is being broken down incorrectly,
not towards body best practices, if you will.
And so it's actually kicking out chemicals
that are not what you expect when you smoke THC.
Yeah, that's right.
You had said CYP2C19.
This is actually CYP2C9.
But I'm glad you mentioned that,
because CYP2C19 also breaks down THC.
It's just not the predominant enzyme that does.
And we did see changes there in a few patients,
but again, not with statistical significance.
Okay.
So by my count, we have hit either three or four sites.
So we've either got one or two left.
What's our next one?
Yeah, we've done three.
Well, we've talked about four,
but three that were statistically significant.
Now, the next one relates to the first one,
and that is, this is DRD2.
This is the gene that codes for the D2 dopamine receptor.
Again, dopamine is a chemical messenger
neurotransmitter in the brain.
And DRD2 is the target of most antipsychotic drugs,
drugs used to treat schizophrenia.
And when there's a drug that stimulates this receptor,
it actually causes vomiting and affects the gut motility,
how fast the gut is moving.
So we saw a mutation in DRD2 in 60.7 of the CHS patients
and only 20% of controls.
So the p-value on that was .031, well below .05.
This same mutation, which is on a thing called RS4648318,
in prior studies is strongly associated
with depression and anxiety.
Those are features we see a lot in CHS patients, unfortunately.
Also, there have been associations of other mutations
on this gene with nicotine addiction,
Tourette's syndrome, and chronic pain.
And those are all, well addiction and chronic pain
were features that we saw in a number of the respondents.
Now, I should point out that we have a mutation on DRD2,
also on COMT, the gene that breaks down dopamine.
So we've got sort of a double whammy here, so to speak,
affecting dopamine metabolism.
And this may really help explain how cannabinoid hyperemesis syndrome
is associated with nausea and vomiting
and some of these psychiatric problems
that seem to appear in the same patients.
All right.
So it's interesting to see that this is the second site
that we've talked about that's directly related to the dopamine system.
And so, no doubt that's playing a significant role in the syndrome.
Yeah.
And it also points out something else we know phenomenologically,
and that is that the drug haloperidol,
which is normally used to treat schizophrenia,
is more effective in treating the nausea and vomiting in CHS patients
than the more commonly used drugs.
More commonly used are things like ondansetron and granisotron
that work through a different receptor.
They work very poorly in CHS patients.
Now, the problem is that haloperidol is a drug
you don't want to be taking all the time.
It has a lot of side effects.
It's extremely sedating, can be associated with massive weight gain,
and some really terrible long-term side effects,
possibility of developing diabetes,
or a movement disorder from the drug called tardive dyskinesia,
which is extremely difficult to treat.
So, taking haloperidol on a regular basis
isn't something that people are going to want to do.
We have to look at better approaches.
Alright. I've got two quick comments on vocabulary.
First of all, I don't know much about the drug dancetron,
but I love the name dancetron.
It's ondansetron.
Alright. Well, it's still got a pretty playable ring to it still.
But more importantly,
for a moment ago I was searching for the word syndrome,
and I kept on wanting to come up with disease.
When used as a medical term, what does this word syndrome mean?
A syndrome is a pattern of problems that leads to a diagnosis.
A disease is due to one cause,
whereas a syndrome may have multiple different causes.
So, actually we'll use a misnomer.
We talk about Parkinson's disease.
It's not really a disease, because there's more than one cause.
It should be called Parkinson's syndrome,
because when you lose a certain number of neurons
related to the dopamine system, again, in the brain,
that can come from any cause.
Aging, strokes, toxins.
When you have killed off 90% of those cells,
you have a Parkinson's syndrome.
So, a disease would be more like strep throat,
a disorder caused by streptococcus.
But, unfortunately, these terms are used somewhat interchangeably.
But a syndrome is a pattern of symptoms or signs that leads to a diagnosis.
Okay, thanks for doing that.
So, what's the fifth and final site we're going to talk about here?
Well, this one is a little harder to explain.
This is on something called ABCA1.
That's the ATP binding cassette transporter.
This gene affects cholesterol and other lipid metabolism.
It's most important in that it's related to Alzheimer's disease.
In that disorder, there's an accumulation of abnormal proteins in the brain.
We'll get to how that relates here if we can.
So, we saw a mutation in ABCA1.
That was present in 67.9% of the cannabinoid hyperemesis patients.
And only 20% of controls.
So, that was a p-value of .012, well below the .05 threshold.
Now, additionally, this is a homozygous mutation,
meaning that we have two sets of each chromosome.
And it appeared in both.
It wasn't just on one, it was on both.
So, unfortunately, because this gene mutation appeared in both chromosomes
in affected patients, it could imply an increased risk of the development of dementia,
memory loss, later in life.
And additionally, it could lead to risk factors for coronary artery disease,
heart attacks, and the development of type 2 diabetes.
And, not this specific mutation,
but another mutation on a closely related gene, ABCB1,
were associated with cannabis dependency in another study.
But, we certainly see a higher degree of cannabis dependency in the CHS patients
than we could explain by chance.
So, when you got the results, and you saw these five sites,
there was a lot of correlation.
And then there was the other one that didn't have quite enough significant correlation.
Was your initial response like,
hot damn, there's five sites, we have something here?
Or were you like, oh, we were really hoping for ten, this isn't a lot?
Or like, anything more than one?
As somebody who is, I don't do your job,
so I don't know whether or not getting five hits like this
is like, wildly successful, or regular, or low.
I was excited.
I think we really have something here.
We have several genes that help explain the phenomenology of CHS.
Now, I should emphasize,
I don't know that any of the patients had all five mutations,
but often they'd have combinations of one or several.
And what we're looking at again is a susceptibility factor.
We hope that we can use this as a screening device.
As it is now, someone who has this constellation of symptoms,
ends up with a lot of hospitalizations and emergency department visits.
And that is very invasive and expensive.
There have been two quotes in the literature of how much people have spent
before they've gotten a diagnosis,
and it's ranged between $26,000 and $96,000.
And that was in, the $96,000 was some years ago,
I guarantee those costs would be higher now if this is not recognized.
So it's our hope that in the future,
if a patient comes to the ER and the doctor there is wondering about this,
they may want to do this test and see if there's a susceptibility there.
Especially if they've previously had tests, CAT scans, MRIs,
upper GI, lower GI, these tests are almost always negative.
They're expensive, they can be invasive.
We're hoping that this is going to lead to better identification
and saving people time and money as well as pain.
Yeah, definitely that.
Before I move us off the sites,
do you have anything that you want to say on any of these sites
before I move to the next set?
I think we're good.
So far during this set, we have talked about the two primary folks
who are in this dance.
The first being high THC,
and then second being showing mutations on these sites.
And as somebody who's been in the scene for a long time
and have had friends who have experienced these symptoms,
and I've seen them firsthand,
there's a lot of us who have participated in really ugly threads on social media
about what was causing these symptoms and then eventually being called CHS.
Two of those are neem,
which is a crushed up seed used as a fertilizer and to some a pest discouragement.
And then other people were making suggestions that it's clearly Eagle 20,
a classically banned cannabis pesticide.
And the defense of it being one or two or both of these were just off the charts.
To see people get so angry with each other about bro science is really disheartening.
So we've got to address these, Ethan.
So what can you tell us about neem,
and what can you tell us about pesticides as their ability to be causes for CHS?
Well, they are not.
I have been a great critic of pesticide use in cannabis.
I've published about this before,
and it would have been nice if that were the answer, but it's not.
As someone who had the misfortune of treating patients with pesticide exposure,
I can tell you that it's a totally different situation to CHS.
And as someone who uses organic neem on my fruit and berries,
it doesn't fit either.
The symptoms do not match up at all,
and they certainly are not producing genetic mutations at this level.
It is the case that some pesticides could mess with a person's DNA,
but I'm afraid that that is just delusional to think that that's the cause of this syndrome.
A couple of other examples.
Again, this syndrome, CHS, was first described in 2004.
At that time, it was not the degree of pesticide usage in cannabis culture that there is today.
So that doesn't make sense.
Additionally, CHS has been encountered, unfortunately, with synthetic cannabinoids as well.
Although they certainly can be toxic, there's no reason to think that there would be pesticides or neem in those.
So that's just one of those theories that doesn't hold water.
So, Ethan, the assertion that you made that there were less pesticides being used in 2004 than there are now,
that jumps up to me like a red flag.
So I'm curious if you would break that thought out to me.
Because as far as most of us chat, most of us say,
back in the day, people would put any kind of evil pesticide on their stuff
so that they could get it out through the black market,
and people didn't know their customer as often because they were shipping it places or putting it downstream.
Whereas nowadays, people are more aware of the pesticides being unhealthy,
and more people are looking for pesticide-free stuff.
That's my assumption, right?
What's in your head that gives you the idea that they were used more in 2004?
Well, it's based on what I've heard from testing labs.
Again, the sophistication in identifying these compounds is greater than it was.
I think that this is a phenomenon that's gone through peaks and valleys.
So, I couldn't give you the statistics in any given year,
but suffice it to say that pesticides and neem are not the cause of cannabinoid hyperemesis syndrome.
Right on. That part I get well.
Alright, great.
So let's wrap up this set.
When we come back to set three, we're going to talk about a handful of questions that don't have easy categories.
But for now, let's go ahead and take our break.
You are listening to Shaping Fire, and my guest today is neurologist and cannabis researcher, Dr. Ethan Russo.
While I love growing under the sun, there's a lot of good reasons to grow indoors.
And if you're like most folks, you want a lighting source that grows high-yielding, healthy plants without using excessive amounts of electricity.
BIOS lighting creates biological lighting solutions that brings the natural brilliance of the outdoors into your grow room.
BIOS lighting has the attributes that I look for in a horticultural lighting solution.
I've bought those cheap lights online, and they're difficult to work with and fail in no time.
In contrast, my BIOS LED light is industrial-grade to last a long time.
It is IP66 wet-rated, so a little foliar overspray won't harm it.
It is easy to clean without taking it down, and of course, the most important aspect,
it is built for the exact light spectrum I want for great-yielding, healthy cannabis plants.
And it doesn't hurt that their lighting rigs look badass, too.
Many horticultural LED lighting systems are based on irrelevant performance metrics, and people love to argue online about these numbers.
I prefer to judge on PAR photon efficiency and how happy my plants are, and the BIOS lights exceed my expectations in these categories.
BIOS lights have an optimized broad spectrum that maximizes photosynthesis and plant growth,
while also providing the ideal conditions for superior PAR efficacy and a comfortable visual experience.
I also love their attentive and over-educated customer service folks.
BIOS starts with a team of biologists before getting the electrical engineers involved.
They have studied how light impacts cannabis plants and devised an overall strategy that works.
I encourage you to check out their website at www.bioslighting.com to learn more about how this strategy can work for you.
And Shaping Fire listeners can get a special deal.
Use the discount code SHAPINGFIRE, all one word, no caps, for 10% off your entire purchase.
That's Bioslighting.com.
There are several presentations from Dr. Ethan Russo on terpenes and the endocannabinoid system too.
While there, be sure to check out the three 10-part Shaping Fire sessions series, one with Kevin Jodry, one with Dr. Ethan Russo, and one with Jeff Lowenfels.
And even my own presentations on how to approach finding your dream job in cannabis and why we choose cannabis business even though the risks are so high.
As of today, there's over 200 videos that you can check out for free.
So go to youtube.com forward slash shango-los or click on the link in the newsletter.
As cannabis regulations become more demanding and consumers become more educated, it is increasingly important to avoid the use of chemical pesticides when cultivating cannabis.
Beneficial insects have been used for decades by the greenhouse vegetable and ornamental plant industry, and today many cannabis cultivators are moving from sprays and chemicals to beneficial insects.
Copert Biological Systems has the beneficial insects, mites, and nematodes, microbials, sticky cards, and air distribution units you need to partner with nature to defend your garden.
Whether you manage acres of canopy or have a simple grow tent in your home, Copert is ready to help answer your questions and help you transition away from chemical sprays towards clean and natural solutions.
Since 1967, Copert has assisted growers in identifying pests and devising reliable solutions while providing healthy insects and mites that will protect your yield.
Since the 1990s, Copert has been a leader in cannabis pest and disease control worldwide and have highly trained consultants to assist you in Canada and the U.S. from coast to coast.
No matter where you live, Copert Biological Systems can help. Visit copert.com, choose your country, and get detailed information. That's copert.com.
For the most up-to-date cannabis-related biological control information, you can also check out their Instagram, at Copert Canada.
You know getting away from pesticides is good for health and good for business, and Copert is ready to help. Visit copert.com today.
Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire. I'm your host, Shango Lose, and our guest this week is neurologist and cannabis researcher, Dr. Ethan Russo.
So, Ethan, you know, one of the things that the paper points out that, you know, I really identified with was the paper said that in general, people waited a long time to get help.
And while I'm certainly the kind of man who's willing to ask for directions when I'm driving my car, and I'm not afraid to go to the doctors, it all just sounds like, you know, a pain in the ass to have to go.
But at the same time, these symptoms are severe, and the sooner you go, the better, you know, your likelihood for treatment is.
So, can you kind of talk to both the psychological aspect of, you know, people resisting going to a doctor about something, but also more specifically, what you saw as the line in the sand for these patients of when they had had enough?
Well, I think it often has required the intervention of a family member or friend, quite frankly.
For some of these patients, they'll spend all day in the shower as long as the hot water lasts.
It really can come down to that, unfortunately.
Plus, there's the factor that some of them have already been told that this is likely related to cannabis usage, and it's not a message that's well received.
And then there's the whole factor of legality or illegality.
You know, we on the West Coast are more accustomed to cannabis being legal, but that's not true everywhere at all.
And there's still stigma attached, no matter how you look at it.
Yeah, I buy that.
And for most of us who use cannabis, you know, even though I consider it all medical, most people think about it either medical or recreational.
But the medical care system is not necessarily our friend, either of us.
And no one wants to go to the hospital to be, you know, treated like an addict or something, you know?
Exactly.
So, let's talk about the treatment.
So, the paper makes it sound very cut and dry that the only treatment, apparently, is stopping using cannabis for a while.
Is it that cut and dry?
Well, it is if we're talking about eliminating the problem, yes.
Now, that doesn't preclude the idea that we may develop approaches that are going to reduce or mitigate symptoms.
But we don't have anything like that now.
You can't cover your body in capsaicin cream as a regular treatment.
So, you know, at this point, we have signals from our results, places to point for possibilities.
You know, we know that haloperidol works better than other antiemetics.
There is another drug, aprepitin, that's been used in one patient.
It works on a different area in the brain.
You know, one of the things to wonder about is, could the problem be attacked by something from cannabis other than THC?
That's really possible.
Say, for example, whenever you take your THC, make sure you take some CBN with it or something like that.
No, I'm afraid that isn't going to work.
Seemingly, any exposure to THC is a risk factor for someone who has CHS.
Again, there may be a certain threshold, and we find people are trying to skirt that threshold all the time.
But when an attack hits, it's too late.
You know, again, there's an extremely high relapse rate with this syndrome.
Once it's established, we have to recommend, or someone in my position as a physician has to recommend abstinence from THC exposure.
Is it more like a tolerance break?
Is it, you know, you should stop using THC forever ever?
At all.
So it's not like, oh, you're a daily dabber, you need to go down to joints only, something like that?
Again, I wouldn't rule out the possibility that there is a low-level threshold, but people are not going to be able to resume their prior intake levels.
I see.
That's clear.
Yeah, and this is very individualized medicine, so these are generalities really depending on the susceptibility of each person.
You used the term attack.
You said when they have an attack.
I had not really considered it as an attack.
Do they come on like an episode where you're not feeling it?
Okay, will you describe an episode?
Well, again, I could start with this prodrome of nausea and vomiting, or low-level nausea, and then progress to a full-blown episode with nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain.
Over the course of a day, or is this like over the course of a week?
Again, it can vary, but often there may be weeks or even months of the prodrome before full-blown attacks.
So, we've got the possibility that changes in usage could be helpful.
We've got a possibility that some of these pharmaceuticals might be useful, but really the long and the short of it is once you're diagnosed with CHS, what is actually called for is cessation of THC.
Sure.
Now, again, there may be other adjunctive approaches that are helpful.
We're trying to look at whether lifestyle factors enter in, whether there are dietary changes that could be helpful, anti-inflammatory diets, more healthy diets, fruits and vegetables.
That's unclear at this point, but that would be possible.
Could aerobic activity or meditation or any of these other things be helpful?
We're at a stage where these are avenues that need to be explored, but I wouldn't have any hard and fast suggestions aside from THC avoidance.
The study mentions a couple of times particular patients that exhibited withdrawal symptoms.
Most folks don't consider cannabis addictive, therefore it's not really going to have withdrawal symptoms.
I understand that for a patient who is using THC for reduction of suffering, the lack of that causes pain, but that's not really withdrawal.
What are these withdrawal symptoms that some of the patients exhibited?
It isn't pink elephants associated with alcohol addiction.
Rather, when people have withdrawal symptoms from cannabis usage, it's usually some combination of mild symptoms, anxiety, insomnia, nervousness.
It's usually relatively short-lived, but the fact that people have been labeled as cannabis addicted or admitted to withdrawal symptoms to a higher degree in our population is significant.
I guess one might expect it from the high levels of use, but again, the controls had similar usage rates without the same levels of addiction or withdrawal.
So there's clearly a difference here.
Both this study and an earlier study that is quoted within your survey list differences between the genders, both in participation and in people who are experiencing CHS.
Are we seeing any gender predilection for men or women to be more likely to get this?
Yeah, that's always an interesting issue.
It's clear from prior studies that there seemed to be a male predominance in CHS, but that's not what we saw.
Now, first, let's look at what happened before.
It is clearly the case that more men are going to be high volume users of THC, but maybe less and less the case, again, given current demographic trends.
In our survey, we had a female predominance in both the CHS patients and the controls.
Now, that could be due to the willingness of women to participate in the study.
So, hard to say.
But I think that it's clear that a person of either gender could be susceptible to development of CHS if they have genetic predilection towards it and high rates of use of THC.
Alright, that makes sense.
It's interesting, too, that the older study showed more males and this newer study shows more females.
Because the sample size is pretty small in both studies, do you think that's more likely just the randomness of who signed up?
It always could be.
Yeah, it's certainly possible.
Alright, fair enough.
Before this survey came out, a lot of people who believed they had CHS were trying to help themselves by using CBD, increasing their cannabidiol.
Is there any suggestion that cannabidiol, because of its general ability to modulate THC, is going to be any use for us?
Maybe.
The problem is, it's not clear cut from the information that we have at this time.
Part of the problem, of course, is that it's hard to get material that is solely CBD with no THC.
Labeling isn't always going to give you the answer, either.
We see a fair amount of THC contamination, if you will, of supposed CBD material.
But it is possible that a pure CBD preparation might offer some protection, but that's conjectural at this point.
And it also may not be what people really want.
Meaning it won't get them the results that they're looking for?
Exactly.
Why are people using this much cannabis?
There are two reasons.
Number one, they enjoy it, and or.
It's treating something.
They're using it to treat something.
Some symptom that they have.
Could CBD replace that?
One hopes, but I wouldn't say there's any guarantee at all.
But there could be other cannabis components that are going to prove to be useful, or adjunctive treatments.
But again, that's conjectural at this point, and something we'd like to explore in the future.
The five sites that we looked at earlier, are we aware of other actions that happen on those sites that could suggest that there is a different cause to this than THC?
Or is the correlation so high that other suspects are less likely?
Yeah, it's the latter.
THC is the scenic one known.
If there isn't THC aboard, you don't see CHS.
That part's clear.
So there might be other things involved, but THC is the without the it's not going to happen.
Yeah, there's this expression, there's no never and no always in medicine.
But this is one of those situations where it appears that THC is always associated with CHS.
Right on.
Great, well I think that wraps us up for today.
Ethan, thank you so much for sharing this information.
CHS or this host of symptoms has been a boogeyman in our community for so long.
I remember being down at Emerald Cup, probably three or four years ago, and we all shared a house.
And I remember one of the friends who was staying with us lost her whole weekend because she had an attack, an episode.
And she spent the entire weekend in the hot bath and a hot shower.
And that was my first time that I had really come across it.
And it seemed absolutely terrible to go through it.
But also she was there as an employee before she was where they're working.
And she wasn't able to do that either.
And it's nice that there's finally, I believe this is, if not the first study to pull it all together, at least the biggest study.
It's nice to see this finally coming together to put some light on it.
Do you see research on this now continuing?
Are there already second and third wave studies that have seen what you're doing and are ready to jump on and take the baton?
Well, we're not quite published yet.
So, no.
This study has been accepted for publication in the journal called Cannabis and Cannabinoid Research.
We hope that it will spur other efforts.
We certainly plan to remain involved in studying this unusual condition.
So, yeah, it's our hope this is going to lead to better identification of CHS and hopefully better treatment in the future.
Alright, that's great.
And so if you're listening, we're not going to publish this episode until the paper comes out.
And so there will be a link to the paper on the website.
And in case the idea that Ethan just said the paper's not out and yet you want to read it, this episode will not come out until it actually comes out into the world.
So, Ethan, thank you so much.
Appreciate to have you here as always.
Thank you for reaching out and offering us your first interview on the topic.
And we wish you much success in fleshing this out more.
Thank you.
And welcome the opportunity.
If you want to find out more information about this study or the folks that were involved with it, you can go a couple places.
First and foremost, you can go to Ethan Russo's company, Kratos Science, which is CREDO-Science.com.
You can also go to their partner for this survey, which is EndocannaHealth.com.
That's E-N-D-O-C-A-N-N-A-Health.com.
And if you listened to a couple episodes ago with Dr. Chris Spruiner, the naturopath who taught about individualized medicine, he's over at Endocanna Health as well.
And he is one of the co-authors with Ethan on this survey.
And then, of course, Ethan always shares his email address in case you want to reach out to him directly.
And that's EthanRusso at Comcast.net.
And if you do email Ethan, give him some time to get back with you because he does try to get back with everybody.
But he's a busy person doing a lot of traveling for research.
So be kind and be patient.
You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the show at ShapingFire.com and wherever you get your podcasts.
If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it if you would leave a positive review of the podcast wherever you download.
Your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too.
On the Shaping Fire website, you can also subscribe to the newsletter for insights into the latest cannabis news, exclusive videos, and giveaways.
On the Shaping Fire website, you will also find transcripts of today's podcast as well.
Be sure to follow on Instagram for all original content not found on the podcast.
That's at Shaping Fire and at Shango Lose on Instagram.
Be sure to check out the Shaping Fire YouTube channel for exclusive interviews, farm tours, and cannabis lectures.
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at ShapingFire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire. I've been your host, Shango Lose.
