It was late 2015 when I first watched overly excited and inexperienced new cannabis executives
totally fail at interstate brand licensing.
They were an Oregon company seeking to expand their brand into Washington.
I was lead negotiator on the Washington side of the deal.
The deal as it appeared on paper was really more of a franchise agreement than it was
a brand licensing deal, and I saw it as packed with red flags.
It included some attributes that were downright fraud to get around the state ownership laws
here in Washington, and then another part of the deal would have cost my clients their
license because of how they were intending to move the money around.
These were not bad people.
These were folks who just didn't know enough about business to do it the right way, and
they were very driven to find a creative solution in the morass of regulation.
Luckily for us, another cannabis business was publicly reprimanded for trying to set
up the same kind of licensing deal our suitors wanted to set up with us, and everyone realized
that my cautious read of the situation was spot on, and everybody involved walked away
from that deal.
This is wildly common.
Some of the stories I've heard from California and Nevada recently have similar blatantly
fraudulent and unenforceable traits.
Today's show is intended to give you context on the differences between licensing and franchising,
how to choose partners, and how to think correctly through your opportunities in cannabis.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, business, and technique efficiently and with
good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
We'll send you new podcast episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox along
with commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week and videos too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published.
Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode.
Also, we're giving away very cool prizes to folks who are signed up to receive the
newsletter.
Congratulations to Sebring, Ophelia, Aaron, and Nate who all won organic soil nutrients
from green bicycles yesterday just for being subscribed to the newsletter.
There's nothing else you need to do to win except receive the newsletter, so go to shapingfire.com
and sign up for the newsletter and be entered into this month's and all future newsletter
prize drawings.
You are listening to Shaping Fire, and I'm your host, Shango Lose.
My guest today is Chris Crane.
Chris Crane is a 20-year veteran of the cannabis industry, first starting out in advocacy before
moving over to business consulting.
From 2000 to 2005, he was associate director of Normal and then became executive director
of Students for Sensible Drug Policy.
In June of this year, he was elected to a third term on the board of directors of the
National Cannabis Industry Association.
He's now president and co-founder of Forefront, a leading investment and operations firm.
Chris has clients and speaks at cannabis conventions all around the world.
He is highly sought after by companies scaling their cannabis operations, and he also happens
to be a really nice guy.
Today we're going to talk about interstate brand licensing.
I also want to note that we experienced some technical difficulties while recording this
episode.
While Chris and I were both in professional studios, we were still talking via the internet,
and some days packets just don't travel well.
You'll hear some pops during the first set, but they do settle down as the show goes on
and eventually kind of go away.
So it'll be all right, and we appreciate you hanging with us.
Welcome to the show, Chris.
Hey, thanks for having me.
Right on.
So let's start by getting everybody on the same page, right?
Because everybody thinks they've got an idea about what's going on with licensing and franchising
and everyone's expansion to other states.
But for a lot of people, they don't necessarily understand why this is such a pressing thing.
So certainly we're seeing some brands break out as clear leaders in their origination
state, the state that they are from, that they built their first business in.
But most of these companies are eyeing expansion into other states.
To explain this to folks, would you explain why expansion beyond one state is so attractive
to these companies and perhaps even necessary in the cannabis market that we're looking
at right now?
Yeah, I mean, I think like any business, you're going to want to expand your business once
successful.
So if you're operational in one state and you're doing well in one state, you're going
to want to expand that elsewhere.
I think that the big difference between the cannabis industry and other businesses is
that if you're successful in a state, let's use microbreweries for example.
Let's say you set up a successful microbrewery in Colorado, you gain good market share in
Colorado, you start seeing some popularity online for your products in some neighboring
states, say California and Arizona.
You want to start expanding to those states.
You would simply increase your production capacity at your cultivation, in this case
your brewing facility in Colorado, and you would start shipping product into California
and Arizona.
That's simply not possible in the cannabis industry because it's still federally illegal
and because of the state by state nature of the industry.
So if you have a product that's gaining popularity and you want to expand your market share or
expand your market, you have to go to another state and you have to get another license
in that other state, which may not be the easiest thing in the world to do.
In most states, they have very competitive application processes where you're going to
be competing against lots of other operators from around the country as well as some homegrown
folks.
In a lot of those states, there just aren't licenses available.
Many states have a limit on the number of licenses.
They grant all of those at once and then they're not available beyond that.
The only way to get into those other states would be either to acquire a license in another
state to basically buy somebody else's business or to license your brand to a license holder
in another state.
So say you have a product brand, somebody wins a production license in a different state,
you want to get in there, there's no licenses available, you don't have the capital or don't
want to buy that license, you could find a willing partner in another state and license
that brand to them.
So essentially, you're licensing your intellectual property, your SOPs, your methods of production,
and your brand, and it would then start producing and selling your brand and use some sort of
licensing fee or royalty agreement back to the main company.
One other thing I would just want to point out in terms of why people are looking to
do this is this is a growing industry and it's very hard to be a successful business
just operating in one state.
So it makes sense you would want to go state to state to state.
And when we look at what's happening, for example, in the public markets where in Canada,
a lot of these US companies are going getting listed, there's a big appetite for multi-state
operators.
There's much less of an appetite in terms of getting publicly listed and getting investment
into your company if you're a single state operator.
And so that's also been a big motivation, I think, over the last year for folks to get
into multiple states because it provides them with better access to capital, which in a
federally illegal industry with no access to traditional institutional lending is particularly
attractive.
Yeah, I think you're right.
The big role that access to capital plays because in the early years, some five years
ago, there were a lot of folks who were planning on doing it on their own, right?
And then they realized that the only way they were going to get access to capital is from
people who wanted them to hit a grand slam.
So it was no longer really people just doing a solid job in their state of origination.
Suddenly, if people wanted to get capital, they needed to have as part of their pitch
what their national expansion was.
So along that thought, Chris, do you think that there's going to be much future for companies
that choose to stay in one state and don't expand into other states?
I think there will be, but I think it's going to get progressively harder to do that.
So I think those that will survive as a solo state operator are largely going to be those
folks who have a really solid sort of craft brand in particular.
I think there's a place for craft production.
So the highest quality flour, the highest quality products where you would have a hard
time doing that as a much larger scale operator.
I think those folks will find a way to survive.
And ultimately, the walls of interstate commerce are going to come down.
And when that happens, there'll be an ability for some of those single state operators to
expand.
All of a sudden, your state doesn't really matter as much.
If you're getting orders from just across the border, which some of these Northeastern
states might be a 45 minute drive away, that's no longer a relevant factor.
You can sell into another state once interstate commerce opens up.
I think the other potential avenue for the solo operators, and we're starting to see
this now, frankly, is to be acquired themselves.
So if you can build a really solid brand in one state, whether it's a prop brand or as
a great cultivator or even a great retail brand, as some of these larger multistate
consolidators and multistate operators start looking to acquire assets and grow their license
portfolio, those who have done a really nice job of operating a single store or a single
operation within one state are going to be nice, attractive targets to these multistate
consolidators.
As we all know, you only really need to worry about this, the difficulty in expanding to
another state if you're actually a license holder in your particular state.
Corollary companies like making bongs or being a tax accountant firm, all these other things
that you don't have to hold a license for, you all can just expand like you traditionally
would, off you go.
But it's folks who actually have got a state license where you are either a producer of
the flower, a processor of it in some way, transport, or a retailer.
What I'm curious is from your experience, are you finding that particular niches of
that set of market is finding an easier time of expanding than others?
You know, not really, frankly.
It depends on the state because states have very different caps on the number of licenses
and ways to expand.
For example, to get a cultivation license in Nevada is fairly easy or was fairly easy
in the application process and would be relatively easy to acquire because they granted 180 cultivation
licenses for a state of about 4 million people compared to, say, in Illinois where there
are 19 cultivation slash production licenses for a state of 13 million people.
Those licenses are much, much more difficult to acquire or to even win in the first place.
So it has less to do with which part of the vertical you're in, cultivation, production,
as opposed to what states you're looking to expand into, what the availability of licenses
are in those states, either from a license application standpoint or an acquisition standpoint.
All right.
So like a guy like you who is working in many of the states for your own group, Forefront
Ventures, and are also probably assisting some other people in other states where Forefront
Ventures is not working themselves, where have you seen to be the hardest states to
move into so far and for what reason?
Well, they've mostly been states in the eastern half of the US and that's primarily a combination
of factors.
But number one is the limit on the number of licenses.
So in a lot of these states in the eastern half of the country, there's a really small
number of overall licenses.
So the applications for these licenses are incredibly competitive.
And even if you put together, in some states, I would say if you put together an A-plus
team with an A-plus quality application and like an A-plus lobbying effort, you might
have a 10 to 15 percent chance of winning.
If you can't put all that together, you may as well not even bother applying.
I would look at states like Florida and New York, for example, states that fit that.
New Jersey has been similar, although we think New Jersey is about to open up to more licenses
later on this year and into next year as they expand their medical program and expand it
to recreational.
Even a state like Illinois, where again, there's 13 million people and 19 cultivator producer
licenses, that's a very difficult state to get into.
So by and large, it's the states in the northeast or in the eastern half of the country with
the limited licenses, very challenging application processes and fairly strict regulatory environment.
So not only do you have to be able to win a license or acquire a license, you have to
be able to navigate what's generally stricter regulatory environments than you get in many
of the western states.
So clearly there are savvy business people in every state.
But as we've seen, there's a certain amount of, I don't know, corporate memory creep of
how to do cannabis business specifically that comes along with normalization.
And that has generally been coming from the west coast across the country as more states
first adopt medical and then move their way towards rec.
Do you find that along with setting up these licensing arrangements going east, that there's
not only a lot of just simple negotiating the licenses, but there's bringing these otherwise
competent entrepreneurs up to speed going east just so they understand the new moving
parts in this industry that hasn't existed before?
Can you repeat the question there?
I didn't quite get that.
Yeah, sorry.
Maybe that was a little convoluted.
You can edit this later.
The point I'm trying to add...
I'm not answering nonsense.
The point I'm trying to bring out here is that there are good business people everywhere,
but they may not necessarily know cannabis business specifically in every state.
Are you finding that as cannabis is moving into these new states that, yeah, you need
to reach out, you need to find partners, you need to negotiate what you want to do with the license,
but at the same time, you also have to teach cannabis business because it's different and
unique to other types of business?
Yeah, I think that's right.
When you look at some of the more successful operators in particularly in these more challenging
states, what you typically see, and I would say successful in terms of both winning the
license and then operating licenses, what you typically see is a combination of business
experience and cannabis experience, and frankly, local political experience as well.
These licenses are somewhat political in terms of how they're granted, even if states like
to say they're not, and they tend to give difference to locals to a degree as well,
sometimes implicitly, sometimes explicit.
It's the combination of having really good local business people who might have good
political connections or good real estate connections who partner up with folks who
have really good experience from outside of that state that can help demonstrate competency in
cannabis.
That combination tends to do fairly well.
It is a bit harder for the business people who've never done cannabis to figure out how
to do this on their own without a significant dose of education in cannabis business.
Likewise, I think for folks who started in cannabis, particularly in the more gray markets
in California prior to the last year or so when real regulations came into place, a lot
of those folks had a really hard time navigating these much more complex regulatory environments
in the eastern half of the country.
I think that combination has proven to be relatively successful and, frankly, fairly
necessary for both sides of the equation.
Right on.
That makes a lot of sense.
We're going to take our first short break a little early and try to get rid of that pop
in the recording, so stay with us.
You are listening to Shaping Fire, and my guest today is Chris Crane, co-founder of
Forefront Ventures.
As a business owner, you are incredibly busy.
In reality, you are responsible for everything your company does.
You've got so many responsibilities every single day that often you just don't have
the time to really dig into your marketing as deeply as you'd like.
You know there's more that you could do to reach out to new customers and encourage
loyalty in the customers you do have, but you certainly don't have the time for it,
and you're not really ready to hire someone full-time for that role either.
For you, I recommend blunt branding.
At blunt branding, Kirsten Nelson and her team are focused on improving your bottom
line.
You know, most marketing firms are excited to make your logo, packaging, and website
very pretty, but they leave responsibility for improving your bottom line up to you.
They don't want that kind of responsibility.
But that's pretty much the most important part of marketing, right?
Kirsten and her team will help you engage new customers, funnel them to your point of
sale, whether it be online or storefront, and keep them coming back to you and telling
their friends.
Now, if you happen to be a new cannabis company or an established company moving from medical
to adult use in your state, Kirsten especially can help you.
Not only is she well-versed in marketing and finance, but she totally gets cannabis,
whole plant medicine, terpenes, heritage farmers, and the particular needs of startups.
Check out what she did recently for Moon Time Medicinals in Humboldt County at
moontimemedicinals.com.
Kirsten and her team put together a whole brand package for them, built their website,
and wrote their sales materials.
No doubt, this is a paid commercial spot, but that does not mean they bought my opinion.
I've worked with Blunt Branding on four projects now for various clients, and every
single time they have done more than they've promised and over-delivered on results.
I love how they generate new revenue and focus on that as the goal instead of just making
you a pretty logo.
Similarly, every single friend I've referred them to has come back to thank me.
That just doesn't happen every day.
Grab a pen and paper because the website address is coming.
If you want someone to implement marketing programs that feed your bottom line, give
Blunt Branding a call.
They will share proven techniques to increase your audience and generate sales while using
cutting-edge technology solutions in the background that make all of this easy, automatic,
and trackable.
Go to shapingfire.com forward slash blunt branding to find out more.
You can also click on the link in our newsletter.
Blunt Branding.
Marketing that makes you money.
Did you know that Shaping Fire has a fabulous YouTube channel with content not found on
the podcast?
When I attend conventions or speak or moderate panels, I always record them and bring the
content home for you to watch.
The Shango Los YouTube channel has world-class speakers, including Kevin Jodry of Wonderland
Nursery talking about breeding cannabis for the best terpene profile, Nicholas Mahmoud
on regenerative and polyculture cannabis growing, Dr. Sunil
Agarwal on the history of cannabis medicine around the world, Ben Cassidy of True Terpenes
on using terpenes for health in your everyday life, Reggie Godino of Steep Hill on the cannabis
genome, and Jeff Lowenfels on the soil food web.
There are several presentations from Dr. Ethan Russo on terpenes and the endocannabinoid
system, and even my own presentation on how to approach finding your dream job in cannabis
and why we choose cannabis business even though the risks are so high.
As of today, there are over 100 videos that you can check out for absolutely free.
Go to youtube.com forward slash shango los or click on the link in this week's newsletter.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Los, and our guest this week is Chris Crane, co-founder of Forefront
Ventures.
So during the first set, we talked a lot about why a company would be looking to expand beyond
their origination state for all sorts of good reasons, from spreading the risk around to
accessing more capital and also just to be able to be an established national brand.
But one of the things that gets people in a bad position constantly is a confusion between
licensing and franchising.
And that's what we're going to talk about primarily today here in the second set.
So Chris, now that we've established the why, let's focus on the heart, and that's the difference
between licensing and franchising.
People often mistakenly think that they're synonymous, but they are certainly not, and
they're really not even interchangeable for cannabis.
What's the primary differences between licensing and franchising?
Sure.
So it's a good question, and you're right.
People really do often get this one wrong, and they use the words interchangeably, but
they're quite different.
The main thing they get across is I don't think there is any franchising in cannabis
right now.
I know there are some groups that have looked at doing it, but I don't think anybody's
actually running a traditional franchise.
So to back up, the main difference between licensing and franchising is licensing is
essentially you are giving somebody the right to use your brand, and potentially your intellectual
property, some operating protocols, your methods of production, and then they have the right
to use that, and they pay you some fee to do that.
Franchising agreements are much more broad.
So they give you the ability to essentially sell all of those things, your name of your
brand, your SOPs, your protocols, your methodology, but you also have a much greater degree of
control over your franchisee.
So in a franchise agreement, you can tell your franchisor you must offer these sales
on these days.
Your store must look exactly this way.
You must buy your products from these vendors, or you must buy these products from us specifically.
A franchisor can tell you where you can locate and where you can't locate.
In fact, they can tell you where you have to locate.
So if you go and buy at Dunkin' Donuts, for example, you have no freedom over what that
Dunkin' Donuts looks like, over where you buy your products, over where you buy your
donut-making materials and whatnot.
Whereas in a licensing agreement, it's very difficult to get into that level of detail.
And so licensees have a bit more freedom than a franchisee would have.
Licensors also have to jump through significantly fewer hoops than franchisors would have to
go through.
So in order to be a franchisor, you have to come up with what's called a franchise disclosure
agreement, or franchise disclosure document, an FDD.
There are very specific guidelines that govern what would go into an FDD.
There's a ton of disclosures about the owners of the company, any business that you've done,
anybody that you've offered franchises to.
I mean, it's a few hundred pages of background information and information about the business.
There are rules around how you franchise.
So you have to give that document to somebody.
You then can't contact them for something like a week to make sure they have time to
review it.
If you do, then they can get out of their franchise agreement.
And so it's a real process.
And then in about half the states or over half the states, you have to file with the
state corporate board or franchise board to be recognized as a franchisor in that state
in order to offer a franchise.
None of those are necessary for licensing agreements.
A licensing agreement, any good corporate attorney can put together a license agreement
for you.
You negotiate that with the attorney on the other side.
You all agree to what parameters you're going to operate under, but you won't as the licensor
have the same degree of control over your licensee that you would as a franchisor over
their franchisee.
Let's tease out where that threshold is, right?
Because while in a license relationship, you can't call out everything as specifically
in a franchise relationship.
Certainly, there are some things that you can control.
For example, I would think the deployment of the brand and what the brand looks like,
essentially the brand usage book.
That probably stays consistent since that's part of what's being licensed.
That's right.
But where does that end?
So does it end as soon as you start talking about the operations of the company, or is
it only particular parts of the operation?
So there's not really a clear line.
And this is where I should disclaim all this by saying I'm not an attorney.
If you're really thinking about becoming a franchisor or a licensor or a franchisee or
licensee, you need to seek out a good corporate attorney.
And if you're on the franchise side of things, definitely seek out a franchise attorney or
specific attorneys that handle these kind of things.
And I'm not one of those.
So we'll talk about this at the high level.
But my understanding is there's not a concrete line between what would constitute a franchise
versus a license.
But generally, you're right.
It's things like you can say you have the right to use the brand.
The brand has to stay consistent.
You can't just change the logo or do something that's going to be detrimental to the overall
brand.
Then you'd have to set out certain guidelines as to this is what we expect out of the brand.
This is what it looks and feels like.
And you can't dictate how they run their business.
So again, you can't say in a licensing agreement, you have to buy all of your products from
me.
You have to buy these products from these vendors and you have to buy this particular
type of floorboard for your store and this particular type of display case for your store.
You can do a little bit of that as long as what you're contracting around is to protect
the integrity of the brand.
But you can't tell them they have to do this, they have to do that.
The fees also tend to be a little bit different.
In a licensing agreement, you can have all different kinds of fees.
So somebody could pay you a flat fee per month to license your brand and your operations
protocols.
They could pay you a royalty on sales.
There's a lot of different ways to do it.
With a franchise agreement, it's much more standard.
You typically pay a upfront fee as your upfront franchise fee.
And then there's an ongoing percent of sales back to the franchisor, some which are ongoing
franchise fees, some which are joint marketing fees.
And so usually the franchisor will do marketing for you all of their franchises in an area.
For example, again, if you go back to Dunkin' Donuts, having lived in Boston for the last
four years, it's a good one to use for me, since you can't throw a rock without hitting
a Dunkin' Donuts in the Boston area.
There's hundreds of Dunkin' Donuts in the Boston area, for example.
They don't each go out and do their own advertising.
The corporate franchisor of Dunkin' Donuts does all of the advertising for all of the
franchises in Boston.
They'll run the advertising on Boston Radio, on Boston TV, online.
That's to the benefit of the franchisees.
They don't have to then go out and spend that money themselves.
But it's also why it's important for the franchisor to make sure that if somebody walks
into one Dunkin' Donuts and then they walk into another Dunkin' Donuts half a mile down
the road, that all of the products are the same, the displays are the same, the look
and feel is the same, it's the exact same experience.
That's much harder to dictate through a licensing agreement than it is through a franchising
agreement.
That makes sense.
Let's dig a little deeper into that.
I thought I had an idea of what the threshold was and then I realized I don't.
I thought that we were gonna say that the threshold for a license is that you're licensing
the brand and that when you're doing a franchise relationship, it's more operational-based
than the how-to.
In this last answer, you said that the licensees will license both the brand and the SOPs,
the standard operating procedures, how the company can run internally.
This suggests to me that perhaps the threshold between a franchise and a license may be perhaps
on the enforcement of the operating procedures because from my understanding with a franchise,
they can send people from the home office to the franchised location and run them through
a bunch of questions to make sure that everything is running as it's supposed to in the operating
procedures from the home office.
I believe that with licensees, that actually breaks the law and you can't actually do that
kind of enforcement.
Hit that a little bit, if you would.
Yeah, my understanding is that that's right and again, this is where the lines get a little
bit blurry.
But what is clear is as a franchisor, absolutely, you can send folks from home office in and say,
look, if you're not doing all this, we have the right to take your store away and take
another franchisor from another store and give it to them if you're not maintaining
the integrity of our brand in our stores.
That's not the case with a licensing agreement where you're gonna have to go through a number
of steps.
You're gonna claim contract infringement and then there has to be steps to remedy that
infringement within the contract that you would take as a licensor towards your licensee,
give them the opportunity to cure that.
So you're dealing much more with standard contract law rather than what you have in
a franchise agreement where the franchisors have a great deal of power.
But you're right, the licensing is not necessarily just around a brand.
It is often around the operating protocols specifically.
So let's say, for example, somebody develops a better way to create cannabis infused patches.
Right.
So kind of like a whatever, Mary's Medicinals or a man a molecular, right?
Who do the, who do a, you know, a transdermal kind of transdermal.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Transdermal.
So let's say somebody comes up with a really good way to come up to do transdermal patches
and they have their own brand, say in Illinois, right?
And then somebody from Arkansas comes and says, I'd really like to use that.
But you know what?
Your brand in Illinois isn't, you know, it's known in Illinois, but like nobody here in
Arkansas knows your brand.
I don't put a whole lot of value in the brand itself because, you know, nobody knows it
here and I can put that out on the shelves and they're not going to know that from any
other transdermal patch.
But your methodology is great.
And I really interested in that and I want to build my own brand around it.
You could license the technology.
So let's say you've created some kind of machine that creates this transdermal patch
and then standard operating procedures or standard operating protocols for how you
operate that machinery.
You could license that machine and those operating procedures, but say, you know, you can, you
can just white label it, put your own brand on it.
You don't have to run our, you know, you don't have to have our brand, but you have to use
the machine.
You know, we're licensing you the ability to use this machine so you don't own the machine.
We own it.
We're licensing you to use it and we're licensing you the intellectual property that goes along
with how to operate it.
But that would also fall under the category of a licensing agreement.
So it doesn't have to include the brand, whereas with a franchise, it's everything.
It's the brand, it's the operations, it's the SOPs, it's the look and feel, it's who
you buy stuff from, it's how much you pay for it.
It's all of it.
So if you're a franchisor, again, we'll go back to the Dunkin' Donuts example.
You know, let's say you own a Dunkin' Donuts and, you know, some vendor hits you up and
is like, hey, I can sell you the same flour that you're buying from Dunkin' for half the
price and it's going to, you know, it's going to save you, you know, 10 cents on every,
you know, 50 cent donut that you create or that you cook.
You don't have the right to do that as a franchisor.
If you do that, that's a clear violation of your franchise agreement and you could, you
know, you could potentially lose your store for that.
That kind of enforcement becomes much more difficult than a licensing agreement.
Right on.
So I've got one more question I want to keep banging at this license versus franchising
at the threshold point.
So you mentioned that there's a gray area, right?
And the funny thing about gray area and business people, including myself, is on one hand,
you want to get rid of these gray areas because these gray areas create risk, right?
And we're all trying to decrease the amount of risk that surrounds our business investment
of time and capital.
But at the same time, I also know that as a business person, I've done most of my best
deals in the gray areas of arbitrage, kind of like, you know, finding loopholes and exploiting
them to my benefit.
So it's like, eh, gray, you know, gray area is good or bad.
Who is the arbiter of the gray area?
I'm guessing it's some federal group who, when push came to shove, if a decision was
to be made whether or not something was licensed or franchised, there's got to be somebody
who plays umpire to that.
So who does it eventually fall to?
So it is, there is a federal agency and off the top of my head, I'm not recalling the
name of the agency, it's a federal franchise board or something.
So there is a federal agency that looks at this, although my understanding is this is
actually mostly done at the state level.
So most states will license franchises through either their franchise board or corporate
board.
And then even states that you don't have to register as a franchisor, they still have
oversight over franchisors because you still have to go through the FDD disclosure process.
There's a long process you have to go through in order to be a franchisor, in order to sell
franchises.
So you could get in trouble at either the state or the federal level.
And there's actually a, I don't know if it's a category of law, but there's a term called
accidental franchise, which is what gets people in trouble if they are essentially acting
as a franchisor without having gone through the full franchise process.
They can get fined as an accidental franchise, their licensing agreements can all be basically
nullified.
At that point, they can get massive fines, they can lose a lot of business.
So very important if you're looking to get into licensing or any kind of licensing agreement
that you consult with a good corporate attorney or even a franchise attorney to make sure
you're not running afoul of accidental franchise laws.
And that generally comes down to the level of control that you're giving your franchise
or giving your licensees.
So again, if you're just saying, look, you have the right to use our brand, you don't
have the right to do anything that would besmirch our brand or bring down our brand value.
And if you're trying to use our methodology, we really need you to stick to those SOPs
because you can gunk up our machines if you don't do it this way.
All that's going to be fine.
But if you start saying you have to buy certain things from certain people at certain times,
you have to do things certain ways, you have to offer certain sales in certain days, and
we're going to do joint marketing for you and all of our other licensees, well, now
you're starting to look like a franchisor.
And that's the kind of stuff that get you in trouble.
The other thing too is, because a lot of people don't recognize the difference between franchise
and licensing is just don't use the word franchise.
I've had a lot of people who've had like, oh, yeah, I've got this great brand and we're
going to go and we're going to franchise the brand.
It's like, well, have you talked to a franchise attorney about it?
Well, no.
Well, what do you plan to do?
Well, we're going to license this and we're going to license that.
Okay, great.
Don't use the word franchise.
You're a licensor.
You're not a franchisor.
Like that's like the number one thing that gets somebody in trouble for accidental franchise
is they use the word franchise because they just don't know the difference and they don't
get the distinction.
So you really want to make sure that you work with a good corporate lawyer who really understands
franchise law and accidental franchise so that your contracts are set up the right way,
your marketing materials are set up the right way, your licensing agreements are set up
the right way so you don't accidentally run afoul of these quote unquote accidental franchise
laws.
Right on.
Now that we understand all of that, we're going to go to our second commercial break
and we come back for set three.
We're going to talk about how actually to implement one of these licensing agreements
and some pitfalls to watch out for.
We're going to take a short break and we'll be right back.
You're listening to Shaping Fire.
My guest today is Chris Crane, co-founder of Forefront Ventures.
As a listener of Shaping Fire, you already understand the importance of living soil when
growing cannabis.
When you have active microbe communities in your substrate, you go way beyond simply fertilizing
with nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium.
Having active microorganisms in your substrate supports vigorous plant growth throughout
the plant's root zone, making for higher yields and thriving flowers.
Mammoth pea is the first organically derived microbial inoculant that focuses on your plant's
nutrient cycling processes to release soil phosphorus and other micronutrients from their
bound forms, making them more available to the plant.
Increased levels of phosphorus will also keep internodes shorter and focus your plant's
energy on bud production.
Not only that, but the microbes act as a defense shield for the plant's rhizosphere by outcompeting
potentially harmful pathogenic microbes.
Pretty cool, right?
Mammoth pea not only unlocks the nutrients in your soil, but it also helps protect your
plant from disease.
Mammoth pea's beneficial bacteria act like microbioreactors, continually producing enzymes
that release nutrients.
Mammoth pea was developed at a US university and has been extensively tested by Colorado
growers and independent laboratories.
Mammoth pea is proven to increase growth and enhance blooming.
One of the great things about supplementing with microorganisms is that they won't compete
with whatever fertilizer program you're already running.
Simply dose on top of your fertilizer schedule for increased benefits.
To learn more and to find out where you can buy mammoth pea near you, check out their
website at www.mammothmicrobes.com.
Partner with microorganisms to create beautiful, thriving cannabis.
Mammoth pea.
Now that the health benefits of terpenes have become well-known in the cannabis industry,
people everywhere are looking for the purest terpenes without adulterants.
The problem with most terpene providers is that they're not sourced naturally and instead
are made as a byproduct of refining petroleum.
And that's so sketchy.
The terpenes sold by True Terpenes are entirely different.
They are certified organic, non-GMO, and food grade.
That means that they are extracted from real plant sources.
There are no solvents of any kind.
They are distilled only with steam.
That's right, only steam.
In fact, terpenes from True Terpenes are so pure that you can eat them.
Not only that, but you can stack them with better results too.
What I mean is, other companies' terpenes have got a few percent of impurities.
And when you stack those terpenes to make your blend,
you're adding a variety of impurities that degrade your final product.
True Terpenes also have strain-specific terpenes for a wide range of cannabis strains like Durban
Poison, Sunset Sherbet, and Granddaddy Purple.
True Terpenes has robust and supportive customer service, so your questions will get answered fast
and efficiently.
If you've shopped for terps before, you know how rare that is.
So whether you want to cup your hands to smell some beta-caryophyllene to calm down after
getting too high, or if you want to dab some pinene so your lungs feel fabulous and your
mind feels liberated, True Terpenes will provide you with a truly natural experience.
If you are a cannabis product developer, these are the terps you want to add to your oil,
or edible, or capsule, or whatever.
True Terpenes are simply the best your money can buy.
Don't try and make a premium product with substandard terps.
Choose True Terpenes for a top-shelf experience.
Go to shapingfire.com forward slash true terpenes to find out more, or click on the link in
this week's newsletter.
Welcome back.
You're listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shangolos.
And our guest this week is Chris Crane, co-founder of Forefront Ventures.
So during the first set, we talked about why folks are wanting to license and expand into
other states.
And during set two, we really dug deeply into licensing and franchising.
So we got a really good idea of what it means to license your brand, how to go about doing
that, and how to not get tripped up by agreements that are actually franchising, which we cannot
yet do now in cannabis.
So with that, I now want to understand how we would reach out to parties in our new host
target state if we want to expand.
So let's say that we are either in, say, for example, Washington, which is totally
broke.
So a lot of the companies here are looking to expand into new states to hopefully have
a greener future.
And then, of course, in California, everybody wants to expand nationally because everybody
is aggressive as hell.
So let's say that we have got our company and we're ready to move to another state.
Chris, how do we find good, reliable folks in the target state that we want to move into
to work with?
So by and large, there aren't that many license holders in most of these states.
So in most states, there are caps on the overall number of licenses.
And oftentimes, the states list the winners.
So you can usually go onto a state's health department or revenue department website and
get a list of all the licensees in those states.
You can often then go onto their corporate commission website and find their corporate
foundation documents, which usually have some sort of contact information.
Or oftentimes, they may even have a website.
You can contact them that way.
So it's not that difficult by and large to find out who the licensees are.
And by licensees, I mean people who hold state licenses in these new states.
And those are going to be your targets to license your brand.
You need to go to somebody who has a production license, a cultivation license, a dispensary
license, depending on what it is that you're looking to license.
So if you're not going to go into one of these states and win a license yourself or
acquire a license yourself, it's not that difficult to find out who holds those state
licenses and then figure out a way to reach out to them.
When you're vetting folks in the target state, because let's say there could be a few
hundred or more of these people that you're targeting, what do you look at as a first
level vetting of who you might want to go to first?
I think much like with just about anything, you want to feel comfortable with the management
team.
So you want to find out who the owners are, who the managers are.
You want to do some diligence on them, do some background checks, ask for references.
Make sure you feel comfortable with the management team themselves.
And then it really depends on what it is you're looking to license.
If you're a retailer, for example, and you're looking to license your retail brand,
you're going to want to see where are they?
Do they fit the types of areas that you like to locate your retail store?
So if you're the type of company that you want your stores on main streets and high
populated areas, you probably aren't going to be as interested in somebody who has a
more rural or suburban location.
You know, if you are a product manufacturer, you want to make sure that the license holder
has good operating capacity.
You know, if you're a cultivator and you're trying to license cultivation methodology,
right, do they have a good cultivation facility that would fit the types of operations protocols
that we're going to be licensing?
Or is this just a bad fit from a location standpoint?
You also want to think about distribution, particularly when you're looking at larger
states.
So in Illinois, where I currently live, there are a number of producers that are what we
call downstate, right, in the southern part of Illinois.
That's logistically challenging for them to get their products into the Chicago market
on a regular basis because they're not allowed to warehouse their products in Chicago.
So anytime they want to make a shipment, right, they got to drive, you know, five, six hours
to Chicago to drop things off.
So you might want to look for somebody who has a cultivation or production facility that's
closer to the more dense markets where it's not going to be as difficult.
So all of these will factor in, but it really does depend on what segment of the market
you're looking at and what your ultimate goals are.
I can imagine that when setting up a licensing agreement, that when going through the negotiation
process and putting numbers and compensation into the document, it's probably relatively
common for the licensee and the licensor to have different perceived values of the brand
where the parent company thinks that their brand is worth a whole hell of a lot and the
licensee is all like, meh, you're not in our state.
What have you seen about that where they have got different values for the brand?
Yeah, that's been really interesting.
And this is something we saw play out a lot more a few years ago, particularly as these
East Coast states were really just starting to come online.
You had brands like Dixie or OpenVape, for example, which at that time were probably
the two biggest brands on the West Coast who had a big market share in Colorado and California
in particular.
And then people were winning licenses in places like Massachusetts or Illinois or Nevada or
Arizona.
And these companies were coming in and they were marketing themselves as the best brand
in the industry, household names.
And what we found was a real disconnect between the brand owners and the potential licensees
in that the brand owners often really valued the brand itself, thinking like, hey, we've
got all this market share in Colorado, all this market share in California.
People love our brand.
Our brand's a household name.
The brand itself comes with a nice premium.
You should pay up for the right to use that brand because it's such a good established
brand.
And what a lot of the folks in these newer states were looking at is going, well, yeah,
people know Dixie in Colorado and California, but if I were to go out and poll most cannabis
consumers and most patients in Illinois or Massachusetts or Connecticut, most of them
probably won't know what Dixie is.
So what I'm more interested in as the potential licensee is your operating protocols.
I want to do marijuana infused beverages or I want to do vape pen cartridges, but I don't
really know how to do it.
And I know that trying to do it on my own, I'm going to make a whole bunch of mistakes
and I'm going to have to learn and that's going to impact my sales in the market.
I'm willing to pay a licensing agreement to use your SOPs and your operating protocols
and your equipment and not have to reinvent the wheel.
But I don't really care as much about whether my products are called Dixie or if I create
something new on my own that's new to the market.
And it's actually, I think, a reason why a lot of those early licensing agreements didn't
work is because there was a real disconnect over the value of the brand itself versus
value of the operations protocols.
I would think too that there would have to be some really intense thinking by a brand
who was being asked to license their SOPs without the brand, right?
Because potentially they could be creating a competitor in their own market who are making
quality products just like them, but then not using their name.
Yeah, I think that would be a real concern.
That's why a lot of these early agreements didn't get done.
Now we're seeing more of them get done.
I think we've seen more movement on both sides towards a consensus of what these brands are
worth.
But you're right.
By and large, you're not so much concerned that you're creating a competitor within your
own market because by and large, with the nature of this being state by state, you're
going to markets where you're not already there and trying to license that technology
and license that brand.
But for the owners of the companies, the value to them is really in the brand.
They want to get that brand out there.
So if you're a Dixie or you're an Incredibles or you're an Open or one of these are one
of brands, you want to get that brand out there in these other states.
And your best way to do that is through a licensing agreement that gets challenging
when the person on the other side is going, yeah, I want the expertise.
I want the protocols, but I don't really care about your brand.
And I kind of want to develop my own brand.
And so you have to then stop and think, is it worth it for me to help create a competitor?
Even though the reality is I'm getting a cut of their sales, right?
The licensing agreement is not free.
So if I help create someone who becomes a really good competitor, I'm still benefiting
from it.
But I'm probably not benefiting in the way that I would if it were my brand that were
being promoted because that then helps me expand that brand into other parts of the
country.
It helps boost my brand profile, may help boost my valuation as a company because I
can point to my brand being in all these different states.
So it's a real challenge.
And I could see from the standpoint of a licensor why it might be a non-starter for many of
them to just say, yeah, I'm going to license this technology and you can do whatever brand
you want with it.
Now, that in and of itself, I think, is a business model.
But if you're starting from the point of having a really well-established brand in a more
mature market, you're probably going to want to make sure that that brand is being promulgated
around the country and you're not just seeding competitors with the know-how that you've
learned through your years of trial and error.
One of the things that I talk with my clients about a lot is what's going to happen to the
market after interstate commerce is allowed because a lot of these not necessarily robust
companies in individual states are just going to get crushed from competitiveness, primarily
from California.
But there'll be artisan brands in individual states that stay strong and can hold off the
onslaught from places where it's nicer to grow and maybe they've got more in-state talent.
But I would think that once interstate commerce is something that we can do, that it will
also impact the likelihood of licenses and that whole ecosystem will change.
How do you see interstate commerce impacting the licensing market?
Well, it's a great question.
So interstate commerce will change things pretty dramatically, although I think interstate
commerce is going to take a while to roll out.
So even when it happens, I don't think it's something that happens overnight.
I think the state-by-state nature of this probably stays in play for a little while
as interstate commerce is opening up.
But that said, I agree with you.
I think companies that are spending tens of millions of dollars building out hundreds
of thousands of square feet of cultivation space in the eastern half of the country might
find themselves in some real trouble when interstate commerce does open up.
I think interstate commerce, you're right, I think is largely going to be out west in
terms of where the cultivation is going to happen.
The atmospheric conditions in the eastern half of the country are really tough for cultivation,
much more humid, much bigger temperature swings.
And so for all those reasons, I think you're going to be seeing large-scale greenhouses
in places like the Central Valley of California and Arizona and Nevada, Colorado even, high
deserts with fewer temperature swings.
And you'll see outdoor in other parts of California in particular.
As a bit of an aside, when we talk about what we do at Forefront, and we're very focused
in the eastern half of the country, we do some cultivation, but it's very targeted.
And we're not doing really massive-scale cultivation.
Because ultimately, I think when that comes, this commoditizes.
The wholesale prices are going to fall through the floor once you can grow on a massive scale.
Because ultimately, it's still a plant.
And particularly if you're talking about growing for extraction, where you don't really care
as much about the quality of the buds, you just care about volume, the prices are going
to come way, way, way down.
So when we look at where we're interested in playing in the market, we're not really
interested in large-scale cultivation.
There are going to be a few really big winners in that market, but there's going to be a
lot more losers.
And so we like to say, it's kind of like playing the end of alcohol prohibition by
buying a hop farm.
Right.
Well, if you want to do really well in the alcohol industry or in the beer industry,
you don't want to be a farmer.
You don't want to own the hop farms.
You want to own brands.
You want to own distribution.
Right?
So you want to own the distributors.
You want to own the popular brands.
You want to own those distribution points.
But the hop farmers are the least profitable part of the equation.
And I think the same ultimately is going to be there for cannabis, which makes the brand
side, right, coming back to your original question, makes the brand side so much more
important because ultimately the feedstock that goes into that brand is going to be really
cheap.
And other than your really high-end artisan cultivators, like the absolute best of the
best, right, the prices for raw material and the prices for raw flour is really going to
drop.
But brands tend to hold their value quite a bit better.
Of course, the value of those brands will come down as well.
So different kinds of infused products, brands, so edibles and fake pens and everything else,
right, those will hold their value a bit more than the raw material and the flowers themselves.
And so I think establishing a really good brand now that can go state to state to state
to state and establishes a following for that brand in multiple states across the country
is going to be particularly valuable when the rails come down on interstate commerce
because those brands are going to then be able to buy their product a lot cheaper,
to create their product a lot cheaper and to ship elsewhere around the country a lot
cheaper while the value of their brands, while it will come down some, will hold its value
a lot better than the raw flowers.
Right now, getting into that licensing game and making sure that you're doing everything
you can to maximize the exposure of your brand, I think is really important because you're
going to want to have those distribution channels, right?
If your brands become important, but being able to distribute those through the distribution
channels in the industry also becomes incredibly important.
The way that you get into those distribution channels today, if you're a product manufacturer,
largely is to license your brand to manufacturers in other states.
And eventually, if you do really well, maybe you end up acquiring those companies that
you've licensed your brands to down the road or you pump way more products through those
licensors down the road and increase your revenue that way.
I definitely think that the big time players are very aware of this too and also the next
level up, right?
Because I'm at conventions and at dinner and talking with these guys who are invested in
highly scaling oil product folk, right?
And they're like, yeah, we do our product manufacturing and we are aggressively
licensing, but we're not really all that invested into the production of the flowers,
the materials to go into the oil because they're all waiting for international commerce, well,
for the US to get involved with international commerce because it's already occurring.
We're just not playing in it because everyone's waiting to, you know what it's going to be like
to have all of this flour grown in Mexico on inexpensive land with less expensive labor.
And they certainly will have the intellectual property and talent to do the extractions and
then just ship the finished product here where people will plug it into their actual products.
I mean, you talk about that to somebody who hasn't really thought that through in their
single state business model and you can just see their face go pale.
Whereas other hardcore players, say for example, in California, like they're already planning on
that happening within the next 15 years and they already know what they're going to do when that
happens. And I think that that is shocking to people who haven't considered it.
Yeah, it's a great point. I mean, the international piece of this is something that's
largely off the radar in the United States, but it shouldn't be because it's already going on.
You've got licenses for large scale cultivation and oil production in Colombia, which by the way,
is where most of the cut flower industry gets their flowers from in the US. If you go into,
you know, you buy cut flowers in the US.
You mean like ornamental flowers?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. If you go to your supermarket and you buy a bouquet of flowers, I mean,
chances are those are grown in Colombia. Most of the cut flower industry has moved down there over
the last decade or so. You know, if you're buying greenhouse produced cucumbers or tomatoes or
peppers in the United States, chances are those are produced somewhere in Mexico. It's possible
they're produced in Southern Arizona, but most of that was produced in Mexico. And you're starting
to see the rest of the world catch on to this. I think the idea that large scale cannabis is
going to be grown in warehouses in Ohio is just silly. I also think that when we look at what's
going on in the international scene, you've got Canadian companies that are building out a million
and a half square feet of greenhouse space to supposedly supply the global market in places
like Ontario. And I just I can't imagine that in the medium term they're going to be able to compete
with places like Mexico or Colombia or Macedonia or Bulgaria or North Africa.
Right. All places that are big agricultural regions outside of cannabis. Right. I mean,
you think about who's going to supply Europe. Well, Canada doesn't make a whole lot of sense.
Germany certainly doesn't make sense. You've got people investing in massive greenhouses
in Denmark. What's cold and it's gray in Denmark. It's cold and it's gray in Canada. And the cost of
living and cost of expenses are really, really high. You look at what I would look at, like,
where is all the tobacco in Europe grown? It's grown from Albania to Macedonia and Bulgaria
into Turkey. It's like when you get when you pack a camel's and it says find Turkish tobacco.
And most of that's actually grown in Macedonia, Bulgaria. It's not even grown. Some it's still
grown in Turkey. It's Turkish cultivars. It's Turkish cultivars. That's exactly right. But
it's all grown in that tobacco belt of Europe and southeastern Europe. Right. Like that's where
cannabis will grow more efficiently. The cost of living standard, a cost of production, cost of
labor there is substantially cheaper than anywhere in northern Europe. The same is going to go for
North America. I mean, there's a reason why we don't do large scale commercial agriculture for
just about anything in Canada other than trees, right, because it's expensive and it's not a great
climate for it. And so I think that to think that these Canadian companies are going to wind up
being the suppliers for the world, I think is kind of silly. And similarly, if you're focused on
building a really large scale, large scale infrastructure for cultivation in most states
in the United States, it's going to be a tough sell when first when interstate commerce opens up,
but then also when international commerce opens up again outside of I think there will be some
winners that come that can do this on a large scale in certain places in California and certain
places in Arizona, Nevada, where you can build good economies of scale, where the conditions
are right for it. But even there, I'll give you an anecdote from the from the greenhouse produce
industry, the largest contiguous greenhouse in North America, I believe still is actually in
Wilcox, Arizona. It was a company called Eurofresh. They were the largest producers of greenhouse
cucumbers, tomatoes and peppers in North America, mostly shipping into the northern
states in Canada in the winter months. Well, they were pretty much put out of business by
a very large scale greenhouse set up in southern Mexico. Right. They just couldn't compete on price
with massive scale greenhouse production coming out of southern Mexico because cost of labor
is so much cheaper down there than it is even in southern Arizona, where the atmospheric
conditions are actually really good for greenhouse production. Ironically, the owner of
that greenhouse in southern Mexico happens to be the son of a former governor in the state of Arizona.
That greenhouse put out like I said, put out a business, the largest greenhouse producer of
tomatoes, cucumbers and peppers in North America, in Arizona. And the owner then went and bought
one of those satellite greenhouses, not the largest one, but the satellite one of one of
this company's larger satellite greenhouses in Snowflake, Arizona, and has now converted that to
being a cannabis greenhouse and is now the largest producer of cannabis in the state of Arizona.
Well, yeah, the venture capital reacts, right? It certainly does. Let me ask you this. For those of
us who don't have the same comparison scale as you have, you said a very large greenhouse in,
I think, Wilcox, Arizona versus another bigger greenhouse in southern Mexico, how many acres would
you say each of those greenhouses were just to give folks some scale? Just give me a general idea.
I mean, it was like a few square miles. Yeah, we saw satellite footage of the one in Wilcox,
and you could see there was, I think, a nine-hole golf course on their property.
And it was like one-tenth of the whole property. It's massive. You can see it from satellite. I
mean, if you look at the satellite footage, you can actually put it in, I think, if you put in
Eurofresh Wilcox, Arizona on Google Earth or Google Maps, you can see it on there. And I mean, it's
huge. Right on. Cool. Well, thank you for going down that international rabbit hole with me. I'm
going to circle us all the way back to we are talking about the two sides of licensing agreements
and negotiating the contract. I would think that when the licensee goes to implement the contract
that they have set up with the licensor, that they will often implement it incorrectly, right?
Either because they've not done it before or because they want to make their own changes.
Have you seen poor implementations of license contracts?
I have. And that's where things get tricky. So I'll actually take you back to my earliest days
on the industry side of things here. Back when I was with a company called CanBe, which was an
offshoot of Harborside Health Center as a consulting business. And actually, we were way
ahead of our time at CanBe. We were actually in the process of getting to be the first cannabis
franchisor. We were going to franchise a couple of dispensary brands, including Harborside
back then before the company went under. So that's actually where I learned a lot about what
you have to do for franchising. But Harborside Health Center in Oakland, one of the best known
names and biggest dispensaries in the country, opened their first satellite location in San Jose.
And they did it initially through a licensing agreement. And this was something that we helped
with at CanBe on the consulting side of things was to help get that new store up and running.
And so they licensed the Harborside brand and some of the protocols to
Harborside San Jose. And so the owner of Harborside San Jose was a different owner than
the owners of Harborside Oakland, the original store. And that owner, I won't name names,
frankly, it's been about a decade. I don't even remember the name at this point.
But decided that he wanted to do different things with the way Harborside was being run. And so
early on, you saw small signs like he wanted everybody wearing polo shirts with the Harborside
brand on them. And part of what, at least in Steve D'Angelo and the Harborside owners' minds,
part of what made Harborside such a great experience was allowing their employees to
express their individuality. So they didn't have dress codes outside of you can't wear something
that's inappropriate to work. But they wanted people to be able to express their individuality,
to be able to relate better to people who came into the stores. And now you've got this licensee
saying, well, we want everybody in a polo shirt, Harborside logo. It's one small example. And there
were a lot of other things like that where the licensee said, well, I think I can do better by
doing X, Y, and Z. And it caused some real consternation amongst the original Harborside
owners who felt like, well, this is not our brand. It's not even necessarily that what they're doing
is wrong, but this isn't our brand. And we're really concerned about the way that this brand
is being implemented because we want to maintain the integrity of the Harborside brand. It's
something that we put our blood, sweat, and tears into. And ultimately, it was a little bit of an
ugly fight to get control of that brand back. And I can't go into the, or I won't go into the
details of what happened because there was a little bit of ugliness there. But by and large,
in the end, the Harborside owners were able to take that back and they ended up, I don't know
whether it was a buyout or exactly how it was structured, but basically took back control of
that San Jose store and operated it as a company owned store. So essentially a real satellite
Harborside rather than a licensed Harborside because they just felt that through a licensing
agreement like this, they weren't going to be able to maintain the integrity of their brand
as well as they could if they were operating themselves or they could if they were franchising
it. But that really wasn't an option at that point. Right on. That makes a lot of sense.
So I've got one more question for you. And you have given a lot of advice, both in how you want
to go about establishing your license, but how also not how to screw it up. And so I'm sure that
when you are at conventions like I am, and you're overhearing people talking about their efforts
to license, and sometimes you hear something cringe and you hear something that makes you
cringe. And we've heard a lot of those things today, but what is one good piece of advice that
you can offer people who are seeking to license their brand outside their origination state that
they may not be thinking about and you hope to God they do think about? Oh, I mean, I think the two
big things, and we've hit on both of these at various points, but I mean, the two big things
that jump out at me is number one, have a really good corporate attorney with experience in franchise
law, even if you're just doing licensing to make sure you're not running afoul of accidental franchise
laws, as I mentioned. But you make sure things are papered up really, really, really well. If you
want to be able to protect your brand, you have to have a good contract that you can rely on.
So as much as I'm not a litigious person, you've got to have a good attorney from the very beginning
to help you set this thing up, to help you structure it the right way, to help you write
your contracts the right way. Having a good attorney there is absolutely critical.
And then the second thing is make sure you're really comfortable with the people that you're
licensing to. So do as much diligence as you possibly can on the principals and the managers
of the company that you're licensing to. Really dig deep into who they are, talk about their
past business experience, ask for references, ask to talk to people that they've worked with in the
past, ask if they've done licensing agreements and how those have gone in the past. But don't
just rush into a deal because you really want to be in a state and you found somebody who's
willing to pay you the money. Because ultimately, if you wind up in bed with the wrong person,
it can be really painful and a really expensive process. So you really,
really want to do your diligence well. You really want to feel comfortable because ultimately,
you're entrusting your brand or your protocols to this person and this company potentially for a
decade or more. And you want to make sure that they're going to do right by it, that they're
not going to bring disrepute to your brand, which ultimately will reflect negatively on you.
Because when it comes down to it, the consumer doesn't know if they're buying a brand in one
state versus another state, the consumer doesn't know whether that was licensed or whether that
was produced by the same company that produced it in the first state. And so if somebody does
something wrong with your brand and brings some sort of disrepute to your brand, that reflects
on your brand all around the country. And you can deal with some of that through litigation,
you can deal with some of that through contracts if you have to, but the whole point is to not
get there in the first place, not have to do that kind of damage control.
And the best way you can do that is to make sure that you're really, really comfortable with
whoever you're going to be working with and thinking about licensing your brand or your
protocols to. I think you really hit on the point solidly when you say, remember that this is a
long-term relationship. Because I think it's good advice for folks when they're looking at somebody
to date and to be in a long-term relationship with, choose somebody who fights in a way that
you feel reasonable, right? Because if you date somebody who fights fair or fights dirty, you very
well could end up with a really ugly breakup. But if you get in a relationship with somebody
who is at least respectful enough that you can fight fairly, if you do break up, chances are
it won't necessarily be ugly. And it surprises me sometimes when I meet these folks who are
aggressively licensing. They're working on three or four or five state deals at the same time.
And I understand their priority that they want to quick, get them done so they can move on.
They've got a busy day. But at the same time, this is a serious relationship. And I always
recommend that you go to the state, you meet with them, try to have more than dinner, try to do
something with them. Because you can learn a lot about the communication of the other management
team by how they speak to their spouse or the rental car that they choose to drive or how they
handle who's paying the check. Really simple things like that. We can all pick up on, oh,
all right, I see how they would be under stress because this is how they are in their normal life.
And I think a lot of people figure, ah, well, we're all papered up, everything, I'm protected
legally, let's just move forward. And I tell them, you really need to get some more face time with
these folks because you really are getting into a relationship with them. Yeah. I mean, if you're
at the point where you're having to enforce legal agreements, you're already at a really painful
point. So the whole point is to not get there. And frankly, you can have really good contracts
and really good legal agreements. And if you have an unscrupulous person on the other side,
it could be really painful and really expensive, even if you ultimately wind up winning.
Right. I mean, I say once you get to the point where you're in a lawsuit or you're in arbitration
with somebody, the only winners there are the attorney. Yeah. Right. For everybody else involved,
it's really painful. It's really challenging. You usually wind up settling where nobody's
really happy with the way things came out. I think your advice to spend time with them and
see how they interact with things is really good. If anything you can do to get somebody under
stress and see how they respond to stress before you get into that relationship with them,
that kind of business relationship with them. And I think that goes for licensing. It goes for
partnerships, right. JVs, any of these things are really important because it's easy to get along
somebody when everything's going fine and when you're talking about all the money you're going
to make together and the deal you're going to do together. And but everything's great until
stress hits. And that's when you see people's true colors. And on that note, I actually think
one of the better ways and this is going to sound a bit may sound a bit odd, but one of the better
ways to see how somebody deals with stress and particularly stress in an adversary relationship
is actually through a tough contract negotiation. It's through the negotiation for the licensing
agreement itself. So that's something I think you don't necessarily want to rush because
this is the one time when you are actually adversarial. So you go from, you meet somebody,
you talk about we should do some business together, right. Everything's rosy, everybody's
happy, everybody loves the idea, right. It's not adversarial at all. You're really happy together.
That's kind of like the honeymoon dating phase. And then you got to get things papered up.
And then you start bringing lawyers in and then there's provisions of contracts that they're not
going to like, there's provisions you're not going to like, there's push and pull. It is inherently
an adversarial relationship. And I've always found this to be a little bit odd because you go from
everything's great to all of a sudden we're on opposite sides and we're each pushing for what's
in our own interests as opposed to the other person's interests. And then as soon as that's
done, you're in the boat together and everything's good again, right. And you're on the same team
again. And so it's this weird interim time when you're negotiating that contract. When if you do
make it a real negotiation, you get a window into how somebody is going to respond in an adversarial
stressful relationship. And I've actually had situations where I've been in contract negotiations
with somebody and ultimately said, you know what, not interested in doing this deal. The dollars and
cents are there, everything else lines up. But you guys are a-holes. Yeah. But you've been a
nightmare to deal with in all this. And what's going to happen when we have a disagreement over
the business, right? If this is a nightmare, that's going to be even worse. And so I think
you can learn a lot from contracting about how someone's going to respond. And if you get a bad
feeling about like, I just don't like the way these guys are handling that, you should probably
walk away from that deal. That's awesome. Chris, thank you so much for taking the time to be on
the show and sharing your vast experience in this deeply going topic area. I really appreciate your
time and you sharing what you know with all of us. Absolutely. Thank you for having me on.
If you want to connect with Chris Crane directly, you can reach him at the 4Front Ventures website.
That's 4FrontVentures.com. And the four in the front of front, it's the number four. So it's
the number four FrontVentures.com. And if you want to check out their newly rolling out retail brand
called Mission, you can check that out at their website, MissionCan.com. That's MissionCan.com.
You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the show at
ShapingFire.com and on Apple iTunes, Stitcher, and Google Play. If you enjoyed the show,
we'd really appreciate it if you'd leave a positive review of the podcast wherever you download.
Your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too. On the Shaping Fire website,
you can also subscribe to the weekly newsletter for insights into the latest cannabis news and
product reviews. On the Shaping Fire website, you will also find transcripts of today's podcast as
well. For information on me and where I'll be speaking, you can check out ShangoLose.com.
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts? Email
hotspot at ShapingFire.com to find out how. Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire.
I've been your host, Shango Lose.
