As cannabis cultivation continues to normalize across the United States, more and more research
and development is being invested in cannabis genetics. Our heritage growers made the cannabis
crosses we love today based on intuition and experience. Today, though, a whole new variety
of cannabis breeder has evolved not only using intuition and experience, but also using heavy
computing and laboratory analytics as well. While there is certainly no replacement for
experience and intuition, technology-assisted breeding greatly decreases the time it takes
to actually attain breeding goals because successful cultivars can be analyzed and confirmed
on the spot in a spreadsheet instead of having to grow all the plants to maturity and having
all the breeder's friends smoke the flowers hoping to confirm the results. With analytical
breeding, sex, cannabinoid content, terpene content, and overall potency can be determined
in just a few minutes several thousand times over, making extraordinarily large sifts a
real possibility. The application of these technologies does not create genetically modified
organisms. They simply allow traditional Mendelian breeding decisions to occur much, much faster.
Today we are going to be talking about triploid cannabis genetics. These triploid plants are
only available to us due to the availability of computing power to cannabis breeders. These
plants have three chromosomes instead of two, which makes them sterile and impervious to
unintentional pollination. They also exhibit other traits many cultivators want, like increased
yields and resistance to pests and molds. Triploids occur in nature in a great many
species and in nearly all cases these plants are superior to the other plants in their
species so long as you don't intend to breed with them. If you want to learn about cannabis
health, business, and technique efficiently and with good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe
to our newsletter. We'll send you new podcast episodes as they come out, delivered right to
your inbox along with commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week and
videos too. Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published. Sign
up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode. Also, we're giving away very cool
prizes to folks who are signed up to receive the newsletter. There's nothing else you need to do
to win except receive that newsletter. This month, regenerative farming nutrient company EverFlux
is giving away their full line of products to one lucky subscriber to the newsletter. You'll
receive a full bottle of their BioFlux fermented plant booster, their bamboo wood vinegar bio
stimulant, and a big bucket of TerraFlux, their infused biochar blend. You'll get all three. Make
sure to listen to their commercial during the show to learn more. Go to shapingfire.com to sign up
for the newsletter this week and be entered into this month's and all future newsletter prize
drawings. You are listening to Shaping Fire and I'm your host, Shango Lose. My guest today is Seth
Crawford. Seth is a deinstitutionalized academic with a master's in public policy and a PhD in
sociology. His focus up till now has been on the political economy of cannabis. For years now, he
has been consulted by lawmakers and policy specialists for a better understanding of how
the cannabis economy works. Seth is now co-founder of Oregon CBD Seeds, a company researching,
developing, and wholesaling specialty novel cannabinoid dominant cannabis seeds. Seth
appeared on episode 25 of Shaping Fire to talk about the convoluted CBD market and again on
episode 37 to discuss the nexus of the medical cannabis and hemp markets. Today, we're going to
talk about the dramatic evolution of triploid seeds for cannabis. Welcome back to Shaping Fire,
Seth. Thank you for having me. So glad to have you here. So let's get right into it, talking about
triploids. So, you know, triploids are really common in other agriculture and food industries,
but I'm figuring the place to start with today would be if you were to start with the story of
your entire valley getting pollinated a few years back, right? Yeah, that was definitely the impetus
for us. This was back in 2016. We had a, it was the second year of industrial hemp production in
the state of Oregon, and it was the first year of legal adult use outdoor production. So it was the
the inaugural year for THC and the first, I would say, big year for industrial hemp. And we had a
neighbor who was about three miles away from one of our facilities and six miles away from our
major field, who had about 75 acres of densely planted male and female industrial hemp, or what
was supposed to be industrial hemp. He pollinated our field, our facility, he pollinated, you know,
neighbors that were 15 miles to the east, 15 miles to the north, 15 miles to the south. It
really demonstrated the viability of cannabis pollen and just how far it can travel. So I will
grant him that it was a good, good science experiment. But on the other hand, it devastated
a lot of other farmers in the in the valley. And unfortunately, you know, in ensuing years, it
continued to happen in smaller, I wouldn't say it was to that scale, but it's definitely been
happening in our in our valley, and then also throughout the state and other areas, especially
in southern Oregon. It's really, really demonstrated to people that, you know, even if you have good
communication with your neighbors, there are just some folks who cannot be convinced that their right
to farm is less important than the common good of everybody else being able to have a crop as well.
So it's really an outgrowth of that experience for us.
So folks who are listening to the show who aren't super familiar with pollen, why don't you explain
why it's lame that a neighbor's crop pollinated your crop?
You know, if you if you have a an all female crop that you're growing for cannabinoids, whether it's
THC, CBD, CBG, etc. Or even just for terpenes and in cannabinoid free plants, if those female plants
end up being pollinated, you're going to lose about 50% of your overall biomass in about 30% of your
total cannabinoid content, just because the female plants are putting all of their energy into that
seed production rather than into the stuff that we want.
Very, very problematic from a from an economic standpoint.
Yeah. And essentially, you're also ruining good medicine, right? So there's a there's a real human
aspect to it as well.
Most definitely. And the other the other side of this too, and it's going to it's going to be a part of
this larger story is, you know, if you're a farmer and you're you're, let's say you're trying to grow a
grain crop in the Midwest, and you're trying to feed your cattle a very particular type of grain.
In a lot of cases, that grain, while the seed itself is highly impacted by the female that ends up
producing the seed, it's also impacted from a from a, you know, omega three and omega six, and then
other other components of the seed is healthy and good for nutrition, that can be influenced by the
pollen donor as well. So if you're trying to have a pure type of seed, even if it's just, you know, for
your cattle, pollen contamination can really play a play a significant role in undermining that as
well. So it's not just cannabinoids, it's it's also an in seed production.
And also, you know, it's it's even more than just commercial cannabis as well. You know, when I
appreciate the spirit of people who want to gorilla grow, you know, cannabis plants, right, they let
the cannabis be free. And they, you know, they make these little fertilizer balls, and they chuck them
into, you know, vacant yards, and, you know, things like that. And the problem with that, though, is
that if you have these feral cannabis plants growing around, you could have a patient who's got
their little home grow with four or six plants or something. And, you know, they are growing their
medicine, and it's important. And, you know, somebody has thrown some feral hemp, you know, you
know, a few parcels down, and one of those seeds becomes a male, and all of that pollen is blowing
windwardly to this patient's house, suddenly their medicine is going to get all of this pollen and
ruin this crop, which, you know, could be literally a life or death situation for them. So I'm
constantly encouraging people to not gorilla garden, you know, regular sexed seeds, because it's kind
of dangerous for everybody.
It really is, you know, and you can't imagine a worse punch in the stomach than to have that small
outdoor grow that you put all that time and energy into, you know, in your backyard in Oregon, it's
four plants. You know, you get to the end of the season, and your plants are finishing up, and you
realize, oh, no, there's seed in all of this, you know, you basically lose, you know, three to four
months of your life and all that time and energy you put into it. You know, it's a, in a way, it's a
lot like legalization, you know, at the very beginning, before there was any, any form of legal
THC consumption in the United States, at the state level, you know, a lot of advocates would say, we
just have to legalize it, just legalize it, you know, and, well, yes, that's true, we need to
legalize it, the process of legalization, once you start to get into the weeds of policies and rules,
and how that gets implemented becomes much, much more complicated. I think the same thing is
definitely true in industrial hemp. We have a lot of folks that are big advocates of hemp in general,
who have constantly criticized some of the farmers over the last few years for growing, you know, CBD
or other cannabinoids, and not putting energy into, you know, fiber crops or grain crops and that type of stuff.
And it's that same question. It's, you know, hemp can do these amazing things. However, how? How can we make
all of these different uses coexist peacefully? And I think that's one of the biggest challenges
that we have in the 21st century of being able to adapt this crop, both to the landscape and to the
social landscape of being able to have people interact in a way that's not going to be negative for either party.
We talked about that quite a bit last time you were here about how, you know, after your valley got pollinated,
you know, you tried to pull together the local farmers to create what I called at the time a
pollen exclusion zone, for lack of an official term. And you said that, you know, it was actually
really challenging because, you know, farmers are some of the most independently minded people that there are,
as similarly with, you know, liberation minded folks, and to kind of pull people together to kind of agree to not do
certain things on their property, there's a lot of pushback. And, you know, one of the things that we're going to talk about today is why
triploids are great. And I think that this is a this is going to be an opportunity today where science is going to make the
politics of living in your neighborhood easier.
Exactly, exactly. We had tried from a policy perspective and from a social perspective, to try to get people to engage and agree
and come together. And it just it wasn't possible. But there's other ways.
So so during the during the introduction to the show, you know, I mentioned vaguely what what triploids are. So people knew what
they were in for today. But you know, since you are, you know, deep into polyploidy science, why don't you go ahead and give us your
definition of what a triploid is?
Yeah, and I would first couch this and say, the reason that we even have a ploidy breeding program here at Oregon CBD is because we
hired a recent PhD, Shen Chen, who is an absolute genius when it comes to both plant breeding and for the manipulation of
ploidy. So he's he's really the one that is is the driving force behind this at our company. So Dr. Shen Chen and Brandon Rojas, who
works with Dr. Chen, are really the really the intellectual weight behind this project. So I'm just basically the the communicator of
general science. So triploids are so cannabis is traditionally a diploid species, which means that it has two sets of homologous
chromosomes. It inherits one set from one parent and the other set from its other parent, unless it's a self pollinated plant, in which case
it is inheriting from that that previous just from that initial parent. So two copies of chromosomes are great, it gives you, you know, the
opportunity if you have, say, one bad gene or two good genes to be able to, you know, basically have a fully functional plant or a plant that
ends up expressing things in a really profound way. Triploids are plants that have three sets of homologous chromosomes, which, you know, if two
sets are good, three sets ought to be really, really good. But to get to that point, you have to have tetraploid plants. So tetraploid would be a
plant that has four homologous sets of these chromosomes. So what I just described is diploid, triploid, tetraploid, you can continue going up the
polyploid scale and having more and more sets of homologous chromosomes. However, as you as you start to increase those numbers, there tends to be
a basically a dropping off of the positive impacts and an increase of some of the negative impacts. So one of the challenges in ploidy breeding is to identify at what
level of ploidy does this particular species end up having its maximum expression of health, vigor, vitality, etc.
So, so the fact that these triploid plants were kind of like superhero plants with these this extra chromosome really struck me, you know, I understood right off the bat
that a you know, that a triploid was not going to reproduce, right? And therefore, you know, it was not going to be impacted by pollen. And I'm like, you know, cool, Seth, that's, that's a great thing.
But then as I researched the scientific papers, preparing for the interview today, I'm like, oh my gosh, the list of increased benefits to plants from triploid, it's it's really astonishing. So so here's a short list of what I picked up from the science.
Pest and disease resistance, stem straightness, increases in chloroplast number, which results in strengthenings photosynthesis. Flowers of triploid plants are generally larger and more colorful than those of their diploid counterparts, because the energy is devoted to instead of seed formation is used for flowers and other organs, height and yield.
So I mean, my God, it sounds like by adding this third set of chromosomes, that you're creating these super plants.
It's exactly true. And really, what it comes down to it, it's a little bit more complicated than that, in the sense that all of these things that you're saying are 100% true. But the challenge for us has been to identify which combinations of genes will result in the attainment of all of those wonderful attributes.
What we have seen is that in the same way that you can take a specific combination and create incredible triploid plants, you can also get the wrong combination of genes and create a plant that is, I would say, less than diploid in terms of its ability to be very successful in any given environment.
So the real challenge this summer has been doing field trials to identify which of those crossing patterns are going to give you the best results.
Wow, that you just put my whole idea on its end. So technically, you could get all of these good variables in the plant, but you also could breed something that's especially bad. It kind of reminds me of like, maybe with your earlier breeding projects, you were trying to solve a Rubik's Cube.
But now it's a cube with like 10 rows instead of just three rows or something like that.
You're spot on with the metaphor. As you increase the ploidy, you begin to increase the complexity of what you're dealing with.
And with a plant that is as complicated as cannabis, and up until very recently, so little known about the underlying genomics, it was in a lot of ways a guessing game.
And to be perfectly honest, going into this summer, we had ideas about what could work and what should work. And some of those did definitely have panned out already.
But others have been huge, huge surprises. And we basically had to go back to the underlying data that we're able to luckily in-house generate using our whole genome sequence equipment to produce these really high resolution genomes.
We can basically figure out, you've got gene A and gene B. We've got two copies of gene A and one copy of gene B, and you end up with a plant that is 12 inches tall when it finishes.
If you get one copy of gene A and two copies of gene B, the inverse happens, and you end up with a five foot tall auto flower plant that's yielding two and a half pounds of 20% CBDA flowers.
So it's really, really important to be able to get those proper combinations mapped out.
What is the tool that you use to figure out the percentages of variability for all these traits showing up?
Because I'm imagining that triploid kind of makes breeding squares cry, where you're figuring out what traits are going to be passed on, right?
I would imagine that triploids makes that very complex, and at some point you want to just dump all of these data points into a computer and say, OK, figure out of these genetics, which ones are expressing which?
How many of them we have that are advantageous?
And which of these parents we actually want to bring together to secure most of the traits we want?
Is that simply dropping it into a database, or what is the tool that you use to help move you ahead on that when the variability is so mathematically high?
Two things.
I'm coming from – we've talked about this before, but my PhD is in sociology.
And one of the things that we have to do in sociology is take very disparate amounts of data to try to explain a particular social outcome.
And in those situations, you end up explaining – you'll come up with a list of variables that are 8 to 10 really, really explanatory variables that have a big impact on your final outcome.
And they'll end up explaining, if you're lucky, 30 to 40 percent of the total variation within any given population for any given question.
I think the same thing is pretty accurate when it comes to this particular crop.
We're dealing with – in a diploid plant, you're dealing with over roughly 30,000 different genes that are in the plant.
And you have to deal with different alleles and different combinations of those and crosses.
That obviously is going to increase to about 45,000 when you have a triploid plant.
So the tools that we use, the whole genome sequence data is really useful.
But at the same time, we're also basically in discovery mode trying to figure out what each one of those genes are and what they actually do in the plant.
Chemical data is also really useful.
So we're using genomic data, chemotype data.
And then the last leg of this in triangulating which crosses work the best is just make the crosses and grow them in the field.
It's your phenotype data.
So for us, I think we can kind of – we can create a broad stroke, a broad outline of what could come out of a cross based on the underlying genomics.
And we have a really good idea of what the chemical data is going to look like based on that underlying – those underlying genes.
But the actual things that mean the most to us outside of chemicals, the vigor, the flowering time, the ability to deal with plant stresses and drought, disease pressure, etc.
Those things really only show up when you're in the field.
And it's field trials and growing them out and just visually taking a look at each combination seems to be the best approach.
But you can't do – you really can't do modern breeding without all three.
If you're not using all three, you're really just kind of swinging in the dark.
Right. And it probably also keeps you a better balanced person.
Instead of keeping you in the lab, you have to put on your boots and go out into the field.
Exactly.
Well, I mean that's where you want to be in the first place.
So it's a good excuse.
One of the things that is a remark in the state of the science right now is with you trying to activate these different parts of the genome to see what they do, it's as if we're still at a state of science where there's still some intuition involved.
Whereas a lot of other plant species where triploids are very common and everything's become very mechanized and just kicking out seeds, that science is already settled.
Whereas the cannabis genome is still so tasty and fresh that, yeah, you've got your analytical equipment that helps you quantify what's happening.
But really, since we're talking about real world expressions that mean a lot in the field, it really takes for you to go out, walk the plants, see the ones that strike your fancy, touch them, feel them, smell them, and then go back to the lab with that information.
And I like the idea that there's still some analog left in this kind of breeding.
Oh, it's … once you're able to kind of nail down the science side of it and you have a good data collection process going from the genomic side, from the chemical side, and even on the phenotype side, there really is an art to the selection process.
There always has been, and I think there always will be.
And this is true in any type of breeding program.
We're in close contact with a lot of the folks at the USDA ARS here in Corvallis and at the University at Oregon State because we're part of this larger plant breeding community at this point.
Now that there's some acknowledgement that this is a legitimate industry and it is having a big impact on Oregon agriculture and farms across the country, at the end of the day, there's always going to be art involved.
You want to take berries, for instance.
You want a blackberry that has the right sugar content and the right harvestability and all the right variables.
All the boxes get ticked.
But at the same time, you also … as a human, if you have a fairly developed palate, you can pick … discern between a berry that has just the right amount of sweetness versus a berry that's, say, overly sweet or undersweet or whatever it happens to be.
I think that's where the beauty is at because everybody has a different interpretation of what that ultimate is going to be, what that perfect version is going to be.
It leads to all of these different spaces being available for different breeders to come in and make their mark.
So before we go to the first commercial break, because I think we're all excited about set two where we're actually going to talk about the science and how triploids are actually made.
Since this topic today is actually triploids and not a profile of your company, is there anybody else in the cannabis industry who is working on triploids that we want to give a nod to as also being a leader in this area?
Not commercially at this point.
However, we are working with the University of Connecticut just as a sort of an informal research relationship.
I believe we're a little further along in our process and our breeding program than they are.
However, they are definitely involved and doing some really, really cool work.
There's Jessica Lovell Brand, I believe, is the professor there.
Her and her husband, and then there's two or three graduate students who are working on projects.
They're doing some really cool stuff, and there's also some folks at Oregon State University that are working on this as well.
But in terms of commercial adaptation of triploids and being able to release them, I'm confident that we're the only ones right now in the world that will be releasing triploids for 2021.
Man, you're going to be making a lot more commercial seed buyers cry, just like when you brought out your auto-flowering CBD seeds.
The goal, it's the goal.
Every year you have to get better.
If you're not getting better at what you're doing, then I think it's questionable whether or not there's room for you in the space.
Right on.
We will start talking about how these seeds are made after the break.
We are going to take that short break.
Now you are listening to Shaping Fire, and my guest today is socioecologist Seth Crawford.
If you listen to Shaping Fire and you grow your own cannabis, chances are high that you are very particular about the inputs you use for growing.
People like us painstakingly self-educate on cannabis nutrients and techniques so we can cultivate the best tasting and cleanest flowers possible.
And when we go to purchase those nutrients, we want to be sure that our supplier shares our values and is providing exceptional quality.
This is why I recommend buildasoil.com to my friends who care about quality.
Build A Soil empowers organic growers to do their best work by sourcing and shipping only the finest cannabis growing supplies.
From organic inputs, soils, soil testing and pots, to lights, growing tents, sprayers and cover crops,
Build A Soil founder Jeremy Silva doesn't just stock his store with what's available.
He goes deep to personally vet each product for quality and determine that there isn't a better version of the product that he could be selling.
Because of this arduous process, you know that your options on buildasoil.com have been carefully curated to create the results you are looking for.
Not only that, but the Build A Soil way is a philosophy that will permeate your interaction with the company.
From website design to pricing and shipping to after purchase support, Jeremy and his team always strive to do their best and give you the best customer service in the business.
Check out buildasoil.com today for top tier quality cultivation supplies and a friends and family buying experience.
And check out their educational videos and extraordinary social media while you're there too.
Quality organic growing supplies at buildasoil.com
While I love growing under the sun, there's a lot of good reasons to grow indoors.
And if you're like most folks, you want a lighting source that grows high yielding healthy plants without using excessive amounts of electricity.
BIOS lighting creates biological lighting solutions that brings the natural brilliance of the outdoors into your grow room.
BIOS lighting has the attributes that I look for in a horticultural lighting solution.
I've bought those cheap lights online and they're difficult to work with and fail in no time.
In contrast, my BIOS LED light is industrial grade to last a long time.
It is IP66 wet rated so little foliar overspray will get in the way.
It is easy to clean without taking it down.
And of course, the most important aspect, it is built for the exact light spectrum I want for great yielding healthy cannabis plants.
And it doesn't hurt that their lighting rigs look badass too.
Many horticultural LED lighting systems are based on irrelevant performance metrics and people love to argue online about these numbers.
I prefer to judge on PAR photon efficiency and how happy my plants are.
And the BIOS lights exceed my expectations in these categories.
BIOS lights have an optimized broad spectrum that maximizes photosynthesis and plant growth while also providing the ideal conditions for superior PAR efficacy and a comfortable visual experience.
I also love their attentive and over-educated customer service folks.
BIOS starts with a team of biologists before getting the electrical engineers involved.
They have studied how light impacts cannabis plants and devised an overall strategy that works.
I encourage you to check out their website at bioslighting.com to learn more about how this strategy can work for you.
And Shaping Fire listeners can get a special deal.
Use the discount code SHAPINGFIRE, all one word, no caps, for 10% off your entire purchase.
That's bioslighting.com.
One of the reasons why no-till cannabis growing is so valued by farmers is because the mycelium networks in the soil remain established from year to year.
And we know these fungal networks are essential because they are the nutrient superhighways that extend far and wide in the substrate to feed your plants.
The trouble with growing in new soils or blended cocoa substrates is that it takes most of the plant's life just to create these mycelium highways.
Dynomyco Endomycorrhizal Fungi Inoculant reduces that time and gets your plant eating a wider array of nutrients faster.
And it's three times the concentration of the current leading brand in the US at 900 propagules per gram of two fungal species selected specifically for cannabis cultivation.
This new product called Dynomyco is the result of 30 years of research and trials at the Volcani Agriculture Research Institute in Israel.
It has also been vigorously trialed by cannabis and food growers across the US since the product first arrived here last year.
You may have already even heard about Dynomyco by its original name, Dynamike.
Now, Dynomyco is available at grow shops and online in the United States for the first time.
I love using Dynomyco to both speed up the growth of mycelium networks in the soil, but also as a biostimulant to make clone cuttings more virile.
You can see side by side showing the comparative growth on their Instagram at Dynomyco.
If you demand reliable growing results and appreciate the importance of an active root zone in creating a thriving plant, I encourage you to check out Dynomyco at Dynomyco.com and find out where you can get yours.
That's D-Y-N-O-M-Y-C-O dot com.
Whether you are starting with new beds or pots, or if you want to add some zing to tired soil, choose Dynomyco to maximize your plant's potential.
Dynomyco, endomycorrhizal inoculant.
Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire. I am your host, Shango Nose.
And our guest this week is socioecologist Seth Crawford.
So, Seth, we got everybody all excited about triploids during the first set because we're going to make these superhero chemovars that also can't be pollinated accidentally.
So, of course, the big question is how are they made?
And I know that there are people listening that are saying, man, F that GMO stuff.
And so let's start there by being really clear that this is not genetically modified organisms.
So would you go ahead and make a clarification on the science so that people can be really clear that this is actually nature?
These are not genetically modified organisms.
Yeah. It's actually something that does spontaneously happen in nature on its own.
And when you maybe step back and take a look at some of the most successful invasive weeds that have propagated across the country or across the world,
many of them are tetraploids because of all of those previous evolutionary advantages that we were talking about before in terms of vigor and chloroplast count and efficiency of the plant.
And then there's the potential of using resources.
So it's something that, you know, in the long span of history happens regularly and has actually given rise to most of the diploid species that we've seen today.
So what you end up seeing is a spontaneous transition to, say, a tetraploid.
And then sometime in the future, you'll have a having again and you'll go back to diploids.
And the reason that we see a lot of the diversity in many different plant species is because of these sort of go to tetraploid, go back to diploid over these long periods of time.
In our program, we're taking plants that have been very specifically bred for characteristics that we felt were important and are part of our previous diploid breeding program.
And now we're bringing in new what what were new characteristics and new traits in diploid form.
And then we're putting them through essentially a chemical transformation.
So we're taking a diploid plant and doubling its chromosomes, not inserting anything new, but taking what's there and literally just doubling it using chemicals in vitro.
And then having to grow those plants out repeatedly, take cuttings, grow them out again, take cuttings, grow them out again.
And at every single one of these stages, it's anywhere between six to eight months to make this this happen from start to finish.
We have to test every single one of those plants with a flow cytometer, which is a very fancy piece of science equipment that is able to tell you the size of the underlying genome of the plant that you're looking at.
So we're having to screen to make sure that these formerly diploid plants have been successfully transitioned to tetraploids.
You know, one of the things I think it's important to point out is that, you know, while you use a lot of technology in this sort of breeding, you know, the use of technology itself does not set it up for being GMO.
And the way I normally talk about it with patients is that it's kind of the difference between technology between a magnifying glass and a scalpel.
You know, when it comes to a magnifying glass, you're looking what is there.
And then with a scalpel, you are cutting and rearranging.
And all of your technology that you're using is essentially different forms of a magnifying glass.
You are using analytics and testing and gene mapping to see what there is so that you can have a better grasp of what's naturally in your plants.
So that when you have your plants naturally interact, you get it right the first time-ish instead of kind of like just shooting from the hip without knowing what's in your genetic makeup like most of us pollen chuckers do.
Do you think that's a fair characterization?
Most definitely. Yeah.
And the magnifying glass versus scalpel is a good metaphor.
The way that I usually describe it is it's we're reading rather than writing.
So like our PacBio Sequel 2, it's a whole genome sequencer that allows us to get every single A, T, G, and C that makes up the entire basis of each one of these individual plants.
We're able to read all of those letters up to 100 times to know with close to 100% certainty, 99.99% is where the accuracy is at now, what is actually in those plants.
And in the case of these tetraploids, you can liken it to a copy machine.
So rather than making some sort of big edits and changing things, we're taking what's already there and just making an additional copy of it.
And that's like I had said before, that's kind of where we get into the nitty gritty is being able to figure out which of those genes are good, which of those genes, when combined with themselves again, end up being bad.
And more importantly, which of the plants in these crosses, which one do you want to have two copies of the genome versus which one do you want to have just one copy on the triploid crosses?
So this next question is probably going to be dry for some folks, but I know that there are serious breeders listening who are really going to be grateful that we took this extra step down this path.
And this is what I'd like you to do if you would.
You know, since you're talking to me that since you're saying that each of these cycles and trying to find, you know, tease out the attributes you want take, you know, six to eight months.
Would you just give us a timeline of milestones on the creation of a triploid chemovar?
And what I'm imagining is you're like, OK, we start with this and then we do this and then we do this a few times and then we end up with this.
Just because I know that the breeders want to be able to picture the process in their heads so they can wrap their heads around it.
So would you would you go through that process for us?
Yeah. So we release F1s, which means that you have to have two independently developed, highly inbred parents.
One is a pollen donor. One is a pollen recipient.
Those just getting to the point where you have developed the two parent lines is roughly a three year process.
And I have explained it elsewhere over the over the years.
But it's you know, you find a you find a cross that you really like.
It has the attributes that you want. You inbreed that plant.
You take the seeds off. You grow those out. You test them.
You find the best one. You grow that out.
You self pollinate over and over and over as many times as you possibly can to lock in all of the traits that are, you know, exactly what you're looking for in terms of stabilization with that one variety.
Simultaneously, you're doing exactly the same process with a separate line inbreeding, inbreeding, inbreeding, etc.
Doing your selections at the end of all this, you know, four to five generations down the road, then you can actually bring them back together and create your F1.
So you pollinate one highly inbred line with another highly inbred line that results in seeds that would actually go into the farmer's hands and go into their fields.
That rather than being highly inbred, they're very heterozygous, which gives them hybrid vigor and allows them to thrive in a field.
That's a three year process.
When you add the when you add tetraploids to the mix to make a triploid F1, you basically take you have to choose.
And this is the important part. Choose which one of those parents you want to have the two copies donated to your triploid.
Identify which of those you want and then go through the process of chemically transforming those plants.
And we do that basically from from cuttings. And you have to have hundreds of those cuttings.
Treat them with the chemical. Most of them are going to die. A handful of them will survive.
And those survivors end up being the the tetraploids that then get cuttings taken off of them, tested again, grown out, cuttings taken off of them again, tested, grown out.
And then they become if they pass all of those tests and remain tetraploids, then those plants will end up going into our our production environments to make the triploid seed.
So you're really looking at what used to be if you were really if you were really pushing and doing your hybridization programs quickly and still giving yourself a year to do field trials.
It's about a three year process. Now we're looking at closer to four, four and a half years from the time that we start a project until we can we can get seed into a farmer's hands as a triploid F1.
Well, I like the compactness of that explanation. It's always nice to interview somebody who was formerly a professor.
My question for you, though, is if so, you started this project like five years ago.
So the inbreeding to get to the point where we had the diploid parents, we've been working on that this this whole time.
Basically, where we're at right now is we can we can take any of these parents that we've developed over the years and we're continually developing, obviously, new parents.
So like this upcoming year, we're releasing CBDV dominant plants and CBGV dominant plants.
So new compounds altogether that allow industrial hemp farmers to meet the super stringent USDA enforced zero point three percent THC limit, even at harvest.
So it's basically a fairly revolutionary development for farmers.
So we've got these plants.
Hold on a second. We need to stop there for a second.
You know, all of these growers whose chins just dropped what you just said is like a bombshell.
We've got two brand new novel cannabinoids that that don't test hot at at harvest.
Correct.
That's a that's a pretty big deal to just slide on through.
So, yeah, it's kind of it's kind of big.
And it's not just like one variety.
We we've spent the last three years working to completely remake our entire library.
So all the varieties that we've released over the last couple of years, super hays, special sauce, lifter, et cetera, et cetera.
Those have all been converted into these very rich triploid forms.
So we're releasing fully compliant, fully infertile female flowers.
So this is very rich triploid varieties for twenty twenty one.
It's very exciting.
All right. So I so I interrupted you, but essentially you were saying that you can take any of these varieties that you've been bringing in the market for the last few years.
Do this dance remix on them.
And boom, now they can be triploid.
And so you're taking stuff that you've already proven and and upgrading them essentially.
Yeah, that's exactly right.
Exactly right.
So so one of the things that I found interesting is that when you're using these three sets of chromosomes, there are all of these attributes, good and bad, that are bouncing around that you're trying to get a handle on.
But a lot of these are not good and they create imbalances, you know, like, you know, epigenetic changes and genome size and, you know, increase and decrease genomic diversity.
What are some of the imbalances that you have seen are common in cannabis to come out when attempting to find a triploid that's in balance?
You know, the number one thing that we're seeing is, you know, that process of inbreeding.
While it does lock in very specific traits that you target, it can also lock in deleterious alleles over time.
And what's really problematic is that you don't always see the full expression of the negativity that goes along with those particular genes when there's only two copies.
But they are coming out when there's three copies on a much more regular basis.
So you could have a variety that, you know, you've worked over a long period of time to stabilize and it seems to be, you know, hitting all the marks that you want.
But as soon as you add one additional copy, then everything goes haywire.
Basically, it's just it's that accumulation of negative alleles over time.
Now, I could also see this being problematic.
We're very specific in flowering time.
It's something that we've been spending a lot of time on the genomic side and just in terms of data collection.
Being able to catalog every possible permutation that is out there with these different flower time genes and flower response genes that all end up working in concert together to end up forcing a plant to go into flower.
At particular times.
What's really problematic with triploids is that if you get, say, two copies of, you know, for example, the gene set that goes along with, say, a haze plant, you know, an old haze that is equatorial in origin.
Two copies of that will, even when you have, say, a copy of an auto flower gene, also, you're going to end up with a plant that doesn't finish flowering until December.
Right. So it's understanding which combinations end up leading to the results that you want.
And for us right now, that is identifying different flowering genes that allow you to have staggered harvests from, say, early August all the way through the end of October, depending on the bio region that you're in.
Really being able to nail that down is critical, but it's also probably one of the most problematic areas, I think, or it will be a problematic area as folks get into triploid breeding.
Just understanding what those genes are and how those gene networks interact when you increase ploiding.
And when you're using this at a commercial level and you're using thousands of seeds, that becomes really important.
For the simple reason, if you think about succession planting in your home garden, your food garden, you know, we're planting lettuces and things that grow quickly, you know, sometimes once a week, maybe every other week.
And the idea is that so you get lettuce all through the summer and you don't just get a hell of a lot of lettuce just one week. Right.
And for a lot of commercial folks, they don't want to have to harvest all of their acreage all at the same time.
And so they'll plant some and then a little longer later, they'll plant some more.
But that kind of succession planting only really works if those seeds are locked in to go from germination to being finished in a set number of days, say 90 days.
So that if you sow seeds a week apart, you know that they'll be ready to harvest a week apart.
And so I can imagine that is probably why you put so much focus on that, because if that doesn't work, then this doesn't work at scale.
That's exactly right.
And, you know, when you're talking about non-psychoactive cannabis farming, you really are talking about large scale.
You know, there are smaller farms and it's great. We love them. We are doing everything that we can to support them.
But on the biomass side, you know, there are really, really large farms.
And as a plant breeder, you're standing naked before the world when you've got a thousand acres of your seeds in a field.
You know, and if there's any type of hiccup in terms of that flower response time, you're going to hear about it and the farmer is not going to be successful.
And for us, if farmers aren't successful, then we haven't done our job.
And unsuccessful farmers are nasty.
So you want to make sure you do your job well so that they're not coming with pitchforks and fire torches and such.
Exactly. We'll save that for the government.
Yeah. So let's talk a little bit more about some of the challenges when making triploids.
So, you know, albinos, albinism is pretty common when making triploids and that would be no chlorophyll.
And so those die pretty quickly because of a lack of photosynthesis.
Are you seeing that pop up with working with the cannabis genome?
Because it's entirely possible that albinism is more just common in other species.
You know, we do see that, but we have not seen a heightened expression in triploids.
And that's the case even on, say, the poorly performing inbred varieties.
It has not popped up.
Now, you know, in a field of, you know, hundreds of thousands of plants, you're definitely going to see that.
And we've seen it in certain crosses in field trials in previous years with diploids.
It's not a high frequency, but it's definitely something to be concerned with.
The flip side of that, though, I would say is that if you can lock that trade in,
some of those plants that either have albino expressions or have significant extreme variegation,
or say even a leaf shape change that is becoming very popular right now,
you can make those express in particular ways that would be fantastic for, say, like a home garden.
So there's challenges for large-scale field production for, say, cannabinoids or fiber or for food.
But there's also some, I think, some really unique opportunities from just a home gardening ornamental plant standpoint
that we haven't seen with cannabis before, which is kind of exciting.
Well, here's a non sequitur for you.
So if you've had at least one or two albino cannabis plants through all your trials,
I would love for you to compare and contrast what you saw as an albino plant versus, you know,
very often we will see indoor plants, a photograph posted to Instagram or similar.
And there's always the ensuing fight in the thread below arguing whether or not this is an albino plant
or whether or not this is a plant that was bleached by being too close to an LED light.
And so visually, I'm assuming you've seen these photos too.
So compare that, those stark white plants that were grown under LEDs.
Is that how a cannabis albino presents itself?
Because I know some species look more pink and some look more white.
I don't think that I can know scientifically true that I have seen an albino.
It's always been someone showing me a picture.
So what does an albino cannabis plant actually present as?
What's really interesting is that it very rarely will it actually encompass the entire plant.
More often than not, you'll get a sport, a side shoot, or say half of the really interesting ones
are a shoot that half of the plant or excuse me, half of the shoot is green and half of the shoot is white.
Those are pretty good examples, partial albinoism.
The ones that you're seeing on the internet, if the top of the flower is half an inch from the LED
and the only thing that's white on the plant is that bleached out spot,
pretty good indication that it's from the light rather than genetic abnormality.
One of the things that's really cool about, especially the variegated plants
that have a tendency towards albinoism is two years ago,
we found a beautiful example of this in the field.
And Eric, in his infinite wisdom, dug it up and I'm like, what are you doing?
Why are we spending this time to dig this plant up?
So he digs it up, puts it in a pot and we took it back to our other farm
and just stuck it in the shade.
He had this idea that if you just take that plant, get it out of the direct sun and put it in the shade,
it would actually start to put chlorophyll back into the leaves.
Lo and behold, that's exactly what happened.
So essentially what you've got is a plant that thrives in shade-grown conditions
rather than a plant that's thriving in these high-intensity solar radiation in the field,
which is really, really interesting.
I think it lends itself to the explanation of just how plastic this cannabis plant really is.
Give it a different environment, it would thrive.
But for field production, it may not necessarily be the best case.
Kind of as a side note, I have been really enjoying seeing all these atypical morphologies of cannabis
kind of have their heyday as there's more people breeding and more people being able to share
and feeling free to share their photographs on Instagram.
We're seeing lots more pictures of variegation and the ensuing argument about whether or not it's variegation
or whether it's mosaic or something.
So there's a lot of that, but it's cool to see people sharing pictures of variegated plants
that historically we haven't been able to see because everybody is seeing these in hiding
during the prohibition days.
And that's really cool.
And then of course, like the freak show plant that has got everybody tantalized for the last couple years.
It looks more like a tomato plant than like a cannabis plant.
And then of course, the newly arrived Australian bastard genetic line that again looks like a fern of some sort
instead of a cannabis plant.
And all these different morphologies, I never thought there was a thing.
And now there's these kind of interesting plants to grow and experiment with
for people who just love the cannabis plant itself at this point.
And maybe never, they will never be production level plants.
But I really like my freak show that's on my deck right now.
It looks super cool.
Yeah. And that's the whole idea.
I think in previous years, if you're capped with a certain number of plants,
then you're going to obviously want to call the individuals that are not going to give you what you need.
In most cases, that was cannabinoids.
Now everything is a little bit laxer and people are starting to look at the potential of not only the medicine,
but also the food and the fiber and quite honestly, the fundamental beauty of a unique individual from a population.
I mean, the entire ornamental plant breeding industry is built on that.
And I think we're going to probably start seeing ornamental cannabis plants in people's yards.
You may not be able to tell that it's a cannabis plant anymore,
but I think that's part of the fun and the beauty and the plasticity of this awesome species.
Yeah, I totally agree with that.
That is going to be nice to be able to grow the plant for the joy of gardening, right?
Instead of feeling like you have to do it in prohibition mindset.
Yeah.
So this next question, I think to a certain degree, I'm asking this next question
just because I want to get this phrase into the show.
And so there's this thing called myxoploid chimera, right?
And so a myxoploid chimera happens sometimes when breeding triploids
and its definition is an inconsistent ploidy from one plant, right?
And so in my mind, I'm picturing that like instead of the breeding process
kicking out all triploid seeds, it's actually kicking out seeds
that have got different numbers of genetics in them,
different numbers of sets.
And so the resulting seed stock is going to be not comprehensively ubiquitous.
They won't be the same, right?
So how hard is it when you are ramping up the scale, right?
After you've done this long arduous process that you've already described
to get the plant that you actually want,
how challenging is it to then make tens of thousands or more
of these triploid seeds that are all exactly the same
so you get the success in the field?
It's a great question.
And the answer comes down to just repeated testing.
So even though, as I described before,
you take a significant amount of time to test and test and test
over and over using the flow cytometer to establish that you have tetraploids
and you have diploids in your breeding population,
you have to continue to do that.
And it gets even more complicated with what we're having to do for 2021,
which is also making these varin-rich plants.
In the process, it means that every single pollen donor
that goes into one of our greenhouses has to be individually tested
both for its ploidy and for its varin content
to ensure that we've got everything that we're looking for
in terms of being able to produce seeds that are,
and I wouldn't say 100% uniform on the seeds
because there still is variability.
However, they are hitting all the marks for the traits that we're interested in.
What's kind of interesting is to actually get to a plant
that is 100% uniform would require a different type of ploidy induction.
So rather than increasing the ploidy level,
you decrease it to a haploid level
where there's only one chromosome, one set of, excuse me,
a single chromosome from the parent, from the donor.
So that would be an individual haploid
that could then be chemically altered to have two sets,
two copies of those same chromosomes, but they're identical.
And that's when you end up being able to produce,
they're called doubled haploids,
which are essentially seeds that act just like a clone would,
but come along with all the benefits of seed vigor
and having no diseases, no pests, that sort of thing on the clone itself.
No, that sounds like a gold standard right there.
It really is. And it's, to be honest,
I know there are other groups that are working on this.
They have been for a while.
We have a research contract with Oregon State University
working on this just to figure out if it's viable.
I think in the long term, and it's an interesting area for me
because what you just described in saying,
your triploids are uniform, they're uniform to a certain degree.
We're very interested in maintaining some diversity
within these different genotypes to ensure that
if there is some kind of, if you have some sort of
environmental problem where you have a pest pressure,
you really do need to have a certain level of diversity,
even in your seed crop that's in a field,
to be able to handle those types of pressures
and to identify certain genotypes or certain phenotypes
that can withstand those types of pressures.
So it's kind of that idea of trying to get towards a monoculture crop
in the sense of maximizing your productivity of acres,
while at the same time balancing that with the necessity
to not have a monoculture in your field.
Having that enough diversity to be able to respond
to short-term pressures.
So let's dig a little bit more into that uniformity question
because one of the biggest aspects of uniformity in cannabis
that's important is with feminized seeds, right?
Because it doesn't take many sneaker males
to ruin a crop of otherwise female plants.
And you're kind of adding another variable
that really must be at, if not 100%,
really damn near 100%, like we are with feminized seeds,
this fact that the seeds won't pollinate, right?
So how uniform are these triploid seeds
that are being produced in their uniformity
in they are pollen impervious?
Yeah, that's a really good question.
Two questions all bottled up there.
One is, what sort of feminization rate are we seeing
with these triploids?
Is it comparable to the diploids?
With our diploids, it's 99.98%.
So one in 4,000, roughly, would end up having a male phenotype.
In the triploids, we're seeing exactly the same numbers,
which is super interesting to me.
And we're going to dig into that a little bit deeper
on the genomic side to get a better understanding of it.
But the other side of it is,
given a triploid plant exposed to pollen,
how seed-free is this plant?
And what we're saying is that it is nearly seed-free
in the sense that last summer,
we had an experiment in a sealed greenhouse.
This is a 7,000 square foot sealed greenhouse,
no air coming in, no air going out,
where we had a triploid that was pollinated by,
I believe we had 300 different pollen donors
that had all been reversed,
and they're making copious amounts of pollen.
You walk into that greenhouse,
and you would get sick if you were allergic to pollen.
The triploids that were in that greenhouse produced,
one produced, I believe, four seeds,
and another one produced, I believe, five,
which we were comparing it to the diploid sisters, right?
Right next to it.
Those plants were fully seeded.
And on a weight comparison,
you're looking at about one four thousandth,
which is pretty phenomenal.
The interesting part about that, too,
is that the seeds that come off of those triploids
are actually non-viable.
So you would end up with, like I said,
four to five seeds per plant
in a greenhouse that is completely inundated,
like inches of pollen on the benches
when we were all done at the end of the day.
They're highly, highly resistant to pollen,
which is really, really interesting
because not only are you protecting your neighbors
from your own crop,
if you're planting all female seeds,
you're already doing the right thing,
but now you're basically guaranteed
you're not going to pollinate your neighbors
because the pollen coming off of those triploid plants
are also non-viable.
There's no risk to yourself.
Because, honestly, the plants don't get pollinated.
So it's really a win-win,
and they are very, very difficult to pollinate.
It's interesting, too, that it's not simply
an on or off switch,
where the triploids that did produce seeds,
it wasn't like, oh yeah, these produce seeds
and now they're full of seeds.
It's like, oh yeah, the plant produced seeds,
but it's only like three or four.
It means that even though
some of the individual flowers
kind of failed, if you will,
to be pollen resistant,
it wasn't the plant as a whole.
So there's multiple layers of threshold there
to resist the pollen.
Exactly. Exactly.
Yeah. It's like we said earlier.
They're super plants.
Yeah. And really interesting to think about.
So let's go ahead and take our second break here.
And when we come back,
we're going to talk about some of the applications
of triploids and where this is going to go.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose.
And our guest this week is socioecologist Seth Crawford.
For years, organic cultivators
have been looking for a replacement
for using peat moss.
Peat moss has long been the go-to soil amendment
for water retention and container growing.
But organic growers know that peat moss
is an unsustainable resource.
And the mining of peat bogs
destroys habitat and releases sequestered carbon.
But peat moss works so well
that many have continued to use it.
But now there's finally a revolutionary replacement
for peat moss that shares the same benefits
while also being sustainable.
Pit moss sounds and acts like peat moss.
But instead of being mined from fragile ecosystems,
it actually is made from upcycled organic paper and tree bark.
Pit moss is excellent at retaining water in your substrate
and creating air pockets
and tiny living environments for microbes.
Pit moss instantly increases aeration,
nutrient absorption, and water conservation too.
Carefully and locally sourced,
pit moss is the result of decades-long research
into the use of recycled paper fibers.
Pit moss has the fluffy nature of peat moss
and handles exactly the same.
And like peat moss,
pit moss is inert, so it won't change your pH.
Available in a range of preparations
including a nutrient-enhanced blend,
a cocoa coir blend,
and also as an organic soil conditioner
with no added nutrients.
Pit moss is also available as an animal bedding.
So go to pitmoss.com now to learn more.
That's P-I-T-T-M-O-S-S dot com.
Growing healthier, more sustainable plants.
Pit moss.
For many, transitioning to organic farming
or organic gardening can be overwhelming.
There's so much to learn about soil biology
and fermentation.
BioFlux fermented plant boost from EverFlux
simplifies organic farming
so you can start growing organically today.
Invented by a California farmer
growing organic for 40 years,
BioFlux is a fermented natural farming preparation
for those who want a natural micro booster
without having to brew their own.
This extraordinary chemical-free growth
and terpene enhancer improves root development,
accelerates the conversion of organic matter into humus,
increases nutrient use efficiency and uptake,
and increases beneficial microbe activity.
In addition to the BioFlux fermented plant booster,
EverFlux also makes an activated biochar
called TeroFlux that is infused
with the BioFlux plant booster.
Imagine combining the buffering
and rhizosphere-enhancing qualities of biochar
infused with a range of earthworm castings,
insect frass, kelp and crab meal,
oyster shells, and other organic compounds
to make a rich, healthy,
and nutritious meal.
I'm using TeroFlux-infused biochar this summer myself,
and it smells alive, rich, and potent.
These products have been scientifically proven
to match yields and increase flower quality
and pest resistance when compared
to traditional NPK inputs.
If you are looking for reliable organic fertilizers
that will free you up to focus
on other aspects of your garden,
consider using the range of all-natural
regenerative fertilizers and natural bio-stimulants
from EverFlux.
Find out more at everfluxtechnologies.com
or by following their Instagram at everflux.
For 20 years, Humboldt Seed Company
has been family-owned in providing
reliable, high-yielding seeds
originating in Northern California.
While the current trend is to slap
one super male into a line of hype strains,
Humboldt Seed Company continues
to breed with precision and care
by doing large sifts and back-crosses
to emphasize the absolute best traits
that a line has to offer.
This kind of breeding takes time,
talent, and space to work.
No matter what kind of aroma
you are particularly into,
Humboldt Seed will likely have
something you'll love.
If you love fruit, you can choose
from banana, mango, apricot, papaya,
blueberry, blood orange, melon,
and lemons across their various strains.
They have all-gas, glue,
and classic sour diesel lines as well.
Of course, there are the heritage
California strains like OG Kush,
Jack Hare, and Headband,
and their award-winning
blueberry muffin is one that delights
just about everybody's palate,
especially when concentrated.
Humboldt Seed Company is proud
to bring to market the infamous
freak show cultivar 2,
which has a great THC high
but looks so much like a fern
that some folks can't even
identify it as cannabis.
It's a plant that really needs
to be seen to be believed.
If you're looking for well-balanced
fruit, Humboldt Seed Company
can turn you on to CBD strains
that actually have flavor,
like the dill and pepper terpenes
of Willie G's Lebanese land race.
Whether you are looking for
regular, feminized, or autoflowers,
Humboldt Seed Company has the gear
to make this your best
growing cycle ever.
Visit humboldtseedcompany.com today
to check out their line
of vigorous genetics,
download their catalog,
and find out where you can
find their website and Instagram
at the humboldtseedcompany
to check out their gorgeous flowers
and the extraordinary freak show plant.
Humboldt Seed Company,
let them know Shango sent ya.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose,
and our guest this week is
socioecologist Seth Crawford.
So Seth, we've talked about
what triploids are and how they're made,
but this conversation brings up
all sorts of interesting side questions.
So, let's hit a bunch of those
side questions and start with,
you know, it is possible that
most people who are not breeding
are going to want these seeds as well, right?
This idea that they can be,
you know, super plants showing
all of these incredible triploid,
you know, expressions.
I mean, me as just a simple
patient home grower,
I want to grow this stuff even though
I'm not growing acres of it.
Are these, you know,
is anybody doing triploids
going to be dominant, right?
Or is it just other
novel cannabinoids at this point
which are being designed for the
medical hemp market?
Yeah, it's a great question.
And every home grower,
once they have grown a triploid,
I don't think you will ever grow
a diploid again.
There's some fighting words.
I'm not a betting person,
but I would definitely wager
in that camp.
You're looking at,
a good example, there's really good papers,
scientific papers, describing the
differences between a triploid hop
versus a diploid hop.
Very similar families.
And what you're seeing is essential oils.
So, the terpenes and the other
olfactory components that make up
the flavor profile of a hop
are more than double in a
triploid versus a diploid.
The same thing is true in
the triploid cannabis plants
that we're creating right now.
You've never smelled a plant
that had a stronger flavor
than these triploids.
Conversely, they're also producing
more cannabinoids.
So, you end up with a plant that's,
I mean, it's basically the ultimate
expression of what a cannabis
plant can be.
So, to answer your question,
in short, no, unfortunately,
there are not triploid versions
of THC plants that are
available right now.
But it would not surprise me
if there were a bunch of folks
who are claiming that they have them
after people hear about this.
Because they are just so awesome.
One of the things that we are
working on is, you know,
obviously, we're an industrial hemp
seed research and development
company, so we have to honor
the federal rules and the USDA's
guidelines on who we can give
seed to and that sort of thing.
But I will say that we are
pushing very hard at the federal
level to be able to offer seeds
to people.
And I think we're going to be
able to do that in Oregon for
2021, just trying to work it
out nationally at this point
for others to participate in that
process.
But I will say that as part
of the research and development
process, we end up with a lot of
plants that are considered type
1's. Type 1 are high THC
plants.
In addition, we also have type 2
plants. And this is something to
think about from a gene stacking
perspective.
So if a plant has both has an
active CBD and an active THC
gene, what does that look like
in terms of the underlying ratio
when you have three potential
copies so you can stack these in
different ways to achieve very
different results?
We're definitely working
on making
sure that we have
tetraploid versions of many
very, very famous and
very, very popular type 1
plants.
And then we're also going to
be looking at a lot of
high THC plants.
We're allowed to keep those as
part of our genetic library, but
we're not allowed to flower them
out.
They would they would not meet
the obviously not meet the
industrial standards.
However, we can do the
transformations on site at our
company.
And then because we live in
Oregon, you know, we take these
plants home and we can we can
make seed with them and make
make triploid seed, you know,
say in your basement or your
backyard.
They're definitely out there and
they are definitely awesome.
So.
So if I understand
this correctly, you can develop
the genetics legally
in your hemp company.
But because, though,
that is not a viable
product under your license,
you have to stop there.
So if theoretically the
laws were to change
and an hemp
breeding hemp seed
manufacturers were able to now
produce type ones, you
actually have got a library
of this seed that you'd go,
oh, we're just going to put this
into production now, even though
they're kind of
they're kind of it's like it's
like spin off technology from
the work that you're actually
trying to do.
That's exactly right.
And it's a very nice way to
describe it.
We are basically just in a
holding pattern waiting for
federal legalization to open up.
We're cannabis breeders and
the underlying chemical compounds
are very, very simple targets
in terms of breeding.
It's the rest of it that interests
us.
But, you know, as as good
plant breeders, we're always
keeping our work backed up and
are always ready to move forward
when the time is right.
So let's say that you did, you
know, take one of these these
type one seeds.
That's triploid.
And you take it home and you
make that your patient garden and
you grow it and everything's all
nice and legal.
Is are the differences between
a triploid and a diploid
seed growing?
Is it so remarkable that you
can tell that as the, you know,
assuming that you have some
experience growing cannabis
plants right already, like if I
grew this plant, would I be like,
holy hell, this is a different
kind of plant?
Or is it like, yeah, you know,
yeah, it's a better seed.
Like how remarkable is that
plant?
You know, in terms of, say,
like olfactory components,
you know, not just terpenes.
We know now that terpenes make up
about 50 percent of what actually
smells in a cannabis
plant. The rest of them are
different forms of alcohols and
especially aldehydes.
The triploid plants tend to have
anywhere between 30 to 50 percent
increased expression
of those particular compounds,
which means that they're
more likely to be able to grow
those particular compounds, which
means that they are the loudest
flowers that you're going to
end up smelling.
Just as an example, we've
got one of my favorite plants
of all time is Chemdog number
four. So it's one of the Chemdog.
There's Chemdog D, Chem 91, and
Chem 4. Chem 4 has always been my
personal favorite
in diploid form. Now, when
you see it in tetraploid form,
it's a whole other animal. Same
smell, same giant flowers, same
great structure, same over the top
resin production. But the smell
and the
trichome content on it, when you look
at it under a microscope or even
just a loop, a jeweler's loop,
unbelievable. The concentration
is incredible and the smell
is just overwhelming.
So you can take that and
then say like in the case
of Chem 4, you can cross it with
something else that has a completely
different flavor profile, say like
a train wreck with a
terpeneline dominant expression
and then end up creating this new
flavor profile that is not
only incredibly intense in
a plant that's really,
really vigorous, but
it's completely unique.
It's an expression that has never been seen
before because those two types of terpenes
don't end up lining up when you're
making crosses.
So it really opens up the possibility
not only of having a more
vigorous plant with higher yields and
better oil, but
also just increasing that total amount
of diversity that's present.
Wow, that's pretty sexy. We
should have started the show with that question. We would
have kept people a lot longer who we lost
because of the science. Wow,
that's really exciting to be able to
try these plants. You must have been flabbergasted
because I know you're
a breeder and a professor
and a business person
but you're also a toker.
At the end of the day, I love
cannabis. It's really good
flavored cannabis. You must have been blown
away to experience
Chem 4 as your own
triploid. Yeah,
and we're basically doing that
process right now. This is
a shout out to CSI Humboldt
and Caleb's work.
I've been following his work for a number of years
and I've just always appreciated his
level of detail when hunting
for different phenotypes and making sure that things
are quote unquote real.
He does a lot of work making
S1s. So taking these really
famous plants, these famous cuttings,
self pollinating them and then offering the
seeds. For a
plant breeder, sifting through
S1s is where a lot of the
magic really happens. You're able to lock
in the traits that you really want and get
unique flavor profiles.
For a lot of the THC
varieties that I personally work with,
if it's not a cutting or something that's been
shared by other people in the community,
we're going to seeds from
reputable
underground breeders
who continue to stay underground and I appreciate
that, who are making
these S1s of famous plants.
So we've got things like Durban Poison, California
Orange, Train Rack, Purple
Urkel, all
of these different S1 varieties
that have been released
and we're now basically sifting
through, figuring out
which ones have exactly what we're looking for,
both on a genomic standpoint and then
from the chemical standpoint and then we're going to make
tetraploids out of them and
basically be ready for 2022
when we're hoping that federal
legalization happens and everybody in the world
can taste these flavors. Damn,
that's exciting. I also
love Caleb's S1
packs. People will
put out reg seeds and call it a breeder's
pack and it'll just have
more seeds, right?
So you get more phenos
at a good price. But
for me, Caleb's S1
packs are like the gold
standard as far as breeders
packs. There's so much
variety. He describes that
he was actually on Shaping Fire
episode 49 talking about
feminized cannabis and he's
all like, you know, these S1 seeds, if you
have enough of them, you kind of have a
snapshot of
what is possible
in that line of seeds.
And it's actually a lot of credit
to Caleb as well.
You just mentioned him as somebody that
you respect and a couple weeks ago,
we had Ryan Lee on the show
and he mentioned out of nowhere
that he respects Caleb Inspecta
from CSI Humboldt as well.
So that's
a lot of good love
for a guy who mostly tries to
stay in the underground. Yeah, and
I feel bad just for bringing
his name up. I'm sorry.
He's not
in the shadows. He's just
happy to stay
small and local to Humboldt.
And it's one of those things where
he's actually doing a tremendous
service to other breeders by being able
to take
these famous clones
and not just reverse
them and make seed, but he's actually
doing the due diligence to make sure that it is
what it is and verifying
that to the best of his ability
and I think anybody's ability at this point.
But then also making something like that
available. So it used to be that we
would ship clones around the country
in DVD cases
and that was how the underground
stayed alive. It's how we shared cuttings
with each other and made sure that there was
not only cannabis plants
across the country and you had sour diesel
in New York and in Oregon.
But it was a way of
basically creating culture and camaraderie
with people who were taking the same
type of risks that you were.
He's been living that and also
making these seeds available
from a breeding perspective. If you
can get an S1 of say train wreck,
if it's a legitimate
cut, which in this case it is,
you have all of the possible
permutations of that particular
variety in seed form
available to you. And because it's an S1
you're actually getting
expressions of both of the parents
and you can start to sift through that and
figure out well what was it that made that
particular plant, the original train wreck,
so amazing.
For us we're doing it from a chemical
antigenomics standpoint. So really
exciting. It's exciting to
be able to have that as an opportunity
and it's exciting to be alive at this moment in
time being able to
subject all of these classic flavors,
these classic varieties to
really
unprecedented analytical capabilities.
This summer actually we
got a couple of the Skittles
S1s
from Caleb here on Vashon
and we just opened the packs
and we spread them around different patients on the
island and
we spread them around before
the pandemic got more serious.
The idea that we were going to do is that everybody
was going to grow different seeds from the
S1 pack and then we were going to do
kind of like a progressive
wander your way around the island
and check out everybody's gardens
and everything. So we're going to have to do that
somehow more creatively with masks and
crap this year now.
It's really enjoyable
for anybody who loves the plant
to check out these S1s
where you're all like,
oh yeah, these are all Skittles plants.
I can see and smell that
but they all have got
subtly different
personalities and if you're
a nerd for the plant, that's just a lot of fun.
I would love to go along
on that. It sounds like it's not going to happen
this year but man, what a great idea.
I love that.
Actually, you're probably going to appreciate it more next year because
we also got some of the
Chemdog S1s.
That's what we're planning on doing next year.
So let's talk about
something that is really a theoretical
because we'll talk
more about
licensing issues here
in a little bit.
I know that the way that
your seeds have to be sold
due to the government regulations
is you need to sell to
particular farmers and you can't just sell
to the public.
But as we know, occasionally
some of those seeds will find
their way into a friend
of a farmer's hands.
What would happen
if
a home
grower tried to
replicate these
triploids, some pollen chucker?
Oh, like
pollinating a triploid?
Yeah, totally.
Essentially like people were doing with your other
auto flower CBD seeds, right?
Your auto flower CBD seeds would be put
into the market.
The farmer who bought them from you isn't supposed to share
them, yet somehow miraculously
their neighbor gets some and
they hit them with pollen in the basement
to try to keep going on the triploid.
Yeah.
The unfortunate
for the folks that are trying that,
you're going to waste your pollen
just because the flowers are non-viable.
And that's the whole point.
And we're not
doing it to stop people from
breeding with our work.
We're trying to help farmers from being
cross-contaminated by a neighbor that's not
being wise in their planting decisions
or even for a farmer that's
say planting near
a feral population of hemp like we see all
over the Midwest, basically from
the southern United States
all the way to Minnesota.
Yeah, you're just not going to end up with anything
except probably increased
allergies if you have viable
pollen in your basement.
So what does the future
of triploids look like, right?
So if we've established that
we can do a lot more
with three sets of chromosomes
than we can with two
and we're just putting
our big toe in the pool
of triploids in cannabis
and where you're starting
is for it to be pollen resistant
and you're going for
yield and
pest resistance and drought resistance
and such, I'm assuming that
there are a lot other traits
that can be toyed with
but just aren't going to be in
the first rev
of seeds. What do you
expect us to see coming from
triploids over the next few years?
That's a really good
question and to be perfectly
honest, outside of different flavor
combinations that have never been seen like I was
describing before, in these
new cannabinoid profiles
you know, your
flowering time, disease resistance, those
big things that you'd already mentioned
I'm really
just scraping the surface
you know, every single week
we're getting another four
whole genomes sequenced and
assembled and available for us to
basically start digging through and mining
trying to figure out
which of these different genes are
contributing to
different aspects of the plant
that could potentially be useful
I think in the
longer term, the way that I view
this, I don't have a specific
answer, but I think in the longer term
what we're seeing is that these plants
are going to have the capability of having
greater evolutionary adaptability
this is a, you can go back to the
notion of punctuated equilibrium, it's the
specific concept of
evolution and how it operates
it was put forward by Stephen Jay Gould
one of the most brilliant 20th century
evolutionary biologists
notion that
over long
historical periods you end up with
essentially stasis, not a lot of change
that happens, and then in specific
moments you have what's called
punctuated equilibrium, the equilibrium is
punctuated by
either external events that end up
challenging a particular organism
an organism's survival
or something that
is localized, say in the soil
or predators
coming in and eating the plants
the idea here is that
the more adaptability
that a particular species has
for any of these
particular challenges, the more
fit it is actually going to be
so as we see the ravages of
climate change or
issues with
weeds in fields
or some of the larger ecological
pressures that are
undoubtedly going to be coming down
on us in the 21st century
these plants have the capability
of responding to that in a way
that we can't even foresee
at this point.
Right on, that's very exciting
and it also sounds like it's a real open
ended kind of answer
right? The answer is
we don't know what might still
be in these plants because we're still
learning the genome and also
we're not sure what we're going to need them
to do yet because
as climate
change continues we're not
sure how it's going to manifest
so it's kind of like a big
open ended question which actually makes me feel
really enthusiastic
for
the
I don't know
the future geneticists and probably
even more so the pot smokers that are in
college right now who are studying
these sciences. What a great time
to be a
18, 19, 21 year old
something like that in school
where you're able to actually study
this in the classroom, get into
a lab and then find yourself
matriculating out of school
and go into legit
companies that are working like this
and have this be your life's work.
How badass is that? What a
great time to be coming into your
career in cannabis.
I only got here because I
basically got let go from the university for
being a proponent of cannabis so
I'm incredibly thankful to be in the position that I'm
at but the younger folks
that we have in our company right now who are
recent graduates with horticulture
degrees or botany degrees or plant breeding degrees
they
have a really
hard time keeping a
smile off of their face because this is
the moment in time. It's this
golden age of cannabis breeding and discovery
that you really
only get to be around one
time as it's happening and
it's happening.
One other thing that may be
evoking is this idea that
one of the problems that the Midwest has, I brought
that up, it's good to have a triploid because
you can't be pollinated by the feral populations
that are left over from fiber
farming in the
first part of the 20th century. These native populations
have established themselves and basically
continue to thrive because it's a fairly adaptable
and plastic plant.
One of the ways that we can end up
dealing with that I think over
time and it's a bigger concern
here in Oregon where you had a
huge explosion of industrial hemp
farms where people were using male and female
seeds inappropriately and then basically
just leaving the area.
We're seeing it right now. There's
fields all over in the Willamette Valley and in southern
Oregon where the farmers
farmed last year, didn't take care of their crop
and they're gone now.
But the seeds remain and so
you have male and female populations popping
up creating a feral population
where there never was one before.
That's a very, very difficult
thing to control. One of the
things that we're working on is being able to use
tetraploids and diploids
in rotation. So you basically
grow your tetraploids for four or five
years in a specific area and then you can switch
back to a diploid to make
sure that you don't have feral
populations that pop up. You can
use the ploidy to your advantage
to basically stop
feral populations from emerging.
That reminds me a lot
of those mosquitoes that are in the news
right now where they GMO'd
up some mosquitoes that don't breed
and they're introducing them to the population
so the mosquitoes are breeding
with sterile
other mosquitoes. And
even though we're talking
about triploids which are not GMO
we will repeat, the
idea is kind of the same what you're talking about. This
feral reduction
because it will
stop them from producing
usable seed.
That's exactly right. And
again just to highlight that, not
GMO, we're taking something that naturally
occurs. It's just we didn't
know it. And to be perfectly
honest, I bet there are people who are growing
cannabis plants right now in their basement
in their garage, in their closet
that are tetraploid
and they just don't know it because
these plants do pop up naturally
in populations. It's just very, very rare
and most people don't have a $40,000
piece of
science equipment to be able to test
in their home whether or not it's a tetraploid
or a diploid.
So it's basically using this new knowledge
to really be able
to push both
farming and ecology
forward. We don't
have to insert genes
from other species to have
a good outcome. You don't have to
genetically modify organisms
to be able to be good
ecologists. We can actually use what's
naturally available and use the tools
that we've learned about in science
to make the success rates
much higher and much faster
to actually push us forward.
Right on. That's beautiful. I don't think
I'm going to top that. So as we
wrap up here, I want to do
something different. You and I have talked, this is
your third time on Shaping Fire
and each time you come on
you're usually coming to share
some new aspect of science
with us.
And then after the interview
you get bombarded
with emails and
contacts and all this kind of stuff.
More than you can handle.
Why don't we go ahead
and answer a couple of the questions
that you get hit with.
This stuff's all on your Frequently Asked Questions
on the website, but let's just
hit the big two.
How do people
buy your seed?
I guess that's pretty much the question.
And is there any
left for this year?
People are generally pretty
disappointed when they find out to get your seed.
They generally have to
be a prior customer.
So why don't you lay that down real quick
before we wrap up.
Yeah, great question. I appreciate it.
You can always get seed from
our website. Not always. We can get seed from
our website, OregonCBDCeeds.com.
At this point, you have
to have an industrial hemp license issued
by either your state or by the
USDA. There's really nothing
that we can do about that.
We did stop sales, and we do this every
year.
Unless you are in a
state like California or
Florida where there's different growing seasons.
We shut our sales down for
each year, July
1st, because we don't want to take
advantage of farmers. If you're trying
to get plants in the ground or seeds started after
July 1st in the northern hemisphere,
you're really missing out.
You've missed the boat, and you're not going to have a good crop.
So we halt.
We'll start sales
for 2021 on these new
Triploid Varin Rich
100% compliant with the USDA 0.3
THC rule on
January 1st of 2021.
And hopefully by that point,
we can have a little bit more clarity from the USDA
on who's actually allowed to
purchase seed and whether or not we
can get these to home growers.
We'll be working diligently to try to make that happen
in the meantime. After you brought your
CBD
autoflower to the market,
which honestly kind of remade
the CBD market
globally, you
sold out of those wicked fast,
because of course everybody wanted tens of thousands
of them. Should we
expect that with triploids for the next
few years as well, kind of like we're still
seeing with some of the CBG stuff?
You're here talking about
it because triploids are
the cutting edge of
cannabis breeding.
But
is it going to take three, four
years for enough of them to be produced
that they're going to be widely available?
How much do we expect on seeing these?
We have enough
production capability to take care of the entire
country next year.
No problem. We've spent the last
two years focused on
building out our facilities
and basically taking
everything that we made from seed sales and putting
it back into science, people, and
our production environment
to make sure that we can meet those goals
and get everybody taken care of.
Right on. Congratulations on that scaling
because it was only a few years ago that
you were all like, damn, we keep
on selling out.
It's true. All that frustrated people
to no end.
You do everything that you can to try
to meet the
demand and keep people happy.
But sometimes
it's hard. It takes time to
build capacity. But we are
there and we're really happy
to be able to get people what they need.
Fantastic. Well, Seth, as always,
thank you so much for joining us and
sharing your very unique perspective
from where you're sitting in
cannabis. It's always cool to
hear about the new things that
cannabis scientists in general
are working on. But since
genetics is
your bread and butter,
it's nice to hear what you
are going to be bringing out before it comes
out. So thank you so much for your kindness
and your stories.
Thanks for having me. This is the best show
on the Internet and you got some of the best
people listening to it. I can't wait for them to hear it.
Awesome. Thank you, brother. I'll see you again soon.
If you
want to find out more about Oregon
CBD seeds, you
can go ahead and go to their website
at OregonCBDCs.com.
Also, it's
great to follow their Instagram
at OregonCBD.
You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire
podcast and subscribe to the show at
ShapingFire.com and wherever you get
your podcasts. If you enjoyed the show,
we'd really appreciate it if you would leave a positive
review of the podcast wherever you download.
Your review will help others
find the show so they can enjoy it, too.
On the Shaping Fire website, you can also
subscribe to the newsletter for
insights into the latest cannabis news,
exclusive videos, and giveaways.
On the Shaping Fire website, you'll also
find transcripts of today's podcast, as
well. Be sure to follow on Instagram
for all original content not found
on the podcast. That's
atShapingFire and atShangoLose
on Instagram. Be sure to check out
the Shaping Fire YouTube channel for exclusive
interviews, farm tours, and cannabis lectures.
Does your company want to reach
our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email Hotspot
at ShapingFire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire.
I've been your host, Shango
Lose.
