Trimming is a constant companion of the cannabis community.
Since the earliest days of commercial cannabis, growers have been trimming their cannabis
flowers to increase their bag appeal and clean up the flavor profile from being overly green
tasting.
Trimming styles change, depend on where you live, and what your final use of the flowers
will be.
One thing for sure, though, trimming is very time intensive and it's hard on your hands
and usually your back and butt, too.
It is true, though, that it is a necessary step in producing fine cannabis, and both
home growers and commercial growers need to get the job done one way or another.
You are listening to the Shaping Fire Podcast and I am your host, Shango Lose.
My guest today is Kristen Baldwin, Director of Operations of Green Mountain Harvest.
They are a mobile trimming company that sends out teams of between 1 and 15 or so people
to trim home grows and large scale commercial grows, too.
Today we'll talk about the different styles of trimming, their favorite scissors to use,
and get a better understanding of their business plan and how they make money in this area
that many in cannabis consider a difficult necessity.
Welcome to the show, Kristen.
Hey, Shango.
Great to be here.
So glad you could make the time to join us.
So the cannabis market is exploding, of course, as licensees and patients and even just everyday
citizens are beginning to grow.
What are the kinds of clients that you find calling you for trimming services?
It's interesting.
We see clients all the way from large scale commercial growers who have several locations
in which we trim with teams of 15 to 20 trimmers several days a week to personal growers in
their homes who have just a few plants.
So really it's a huge range.
It's probably, it probably feels like two different departments because of the demands
of your big commercial growers, the expediency and the regularity and how after once the
contract is set up, it's kind of plug and play versus your personal trimming services
where you might just be at somebody's house for a day or two.
And so you kind of have to create that relationship anew with that person way differently than
the commercial clients.
For sure.
And to that effect, we make sure that the people we send to our personal grow clients
are supervisors.
They're our best trimmers.
They're our fastest.
And also they're in a position to sort of educate in the home as the client wants us
to or doesn't want us to.
They may want to sit with the trimmer, they may not.
It's really up to them how involved in the process they are and how closely they work
with the team.
Yeah, I can imagine that.
I can imagine that there's a lot more customer service.
And actually, it's probably really weird too to be in some people's homes, right?
I mean, that's awfully intimate.
And if they're growing, maybe sometimes they're a little sketchy about having people in their
homes.
And then heck, if they're patients, some patients are, they're living in some rough situations
sometimes.
I can imagine that's a very colorful environment for your team.
Yeah.
You know, what we find is that it's really just great people who generally are either
caregivers for their own needs or caregivers for a friend or family or group of patients.
And they're genuine, kind individuals who just really need a service.
Sometimes, especially with the older folks, it's just that they're not able to manage
it themselves.
You know, with some folks, it's that they're new.
It just depends on the situation.
Some folks are just not able to physically take care of the plants themselves.
So there's sometimes that we go do harvesting and gardening.
We can move clones around.
It's really, you know, a fit to your need kind of service, especially in that circumstance.
And really, even all the way up to the commercial grow, it multiplies out in the same way.
We use the same formula regardless of where we are.
I can actually imagine.
I mean, I'm a patient and all, but my hands still work fine and I can do my own trimming,
but I hate trimming, right?
And so, you know, if you were in my state, I think I would just call because my time
is better spent, you know, recording a podcast or calling an advertiser instead of spending
my time trimming.
And so I think that, you know, it makes...
I would expect that you have a lot of people who certainly can, but it's just not how they
prefer to spend their time.
That's exactly it.
And also, I mean, that's even true in the commercial spaces.
It's not that they couldn't hire and manage that staff.
It's that they prefer not to.
It's that they have enough on their hands just managing growing the plants.
And it's a completely different skill set.
I mean, that's the other thing.
Just because you know how to grow doesn't mean you know how to manicure.
And interestingly, we find some of the best trimmers come from industries like cosmetology
school graduates, for example, make excellent marijuana trimmers, as you can imagine.
And they're the fastest that we've seen.
And the most deft with the smaller work, which, you know, some of it can be quite meticulous.
Yeah, that makes a lot of sense.
Do you charge by weight or time?
We charge per person per hour.
So based on the size of the team that we send you and the number of supervisors versus trimmers,
that calculates an hourly rate.
We don't charge any administrative fees or anything weird on top of that.
And, you know, on a daily basis that gets observed by the grower, whether that's a personal
grower or a huge commercial grower, they see the same tablet that says this is how long
we were here.
This is who was here.
This is how much it cost you.
So we try and keep it as, you know, transparent and without much room for error.
I find that doing it by weight, it just kind of lends to a lot of variance and ways that
things can go askew.
Yeah.
Well, then you have to change the price for dry or wet and how dry is it?
Exactly.
Yeah, I can see that'd be a lot of malarkey.
Well, I'm sure that I'm not the only one listening to you who's curious about a ballpark figure
for what this would cost.
And I also figure that you probably got a wide range of pricing from like, you know,
your bulk commercial clients to somebody, you know, who's a personal grower.
So let's say that somebody has just got, you know, your simple legal six person grow
and they've got, you know, very, you know, moderately sized plant.
Let's say everything's like medium, right?
So what would I expect it to cost to have one or two of your people come and trim out
my six plants?
You know, I think that it would really be just a few hundred dollars.
I mean, it would be a day of work for one or two people.
And you know, if it's six really, really productive plants, like a big, big fat indica versus
a sativa that's going to have a lot fewer smaller buds that are further apart, that
would make a difference in how many hours it would take.
But generally we wouldn't book more than a day.
All of our personal grow clients, I've never really seen it go over more than two days
unless the objective is for us to come and cut the plants down on one day and do the
harvesting and defanning and then let it dry and come back and do the trimming on another
day, which is, you know, quite often how it goes.
So it could be two days, but it might only be four to six hours of work on each day.
I get that.
I get that.
And for me to think, okay, my six plants go from being cut and hung, which I would do
to being, you know, nice and in jars done for a few hundred bucks, I'd be like in, you
know, I'd be like, yeah, totally.
So, you know, there's a lot of variety in trimming styles, you know, like, like, you
know, if you're, if you're trimming for bag appeal, it's going to be a lot tighter.
You know, where I live in out here on Vashon Island, you know, people leave their flowers
really shaggy because they're like, look at all those trichomes on there.
You know, I'd rather have those on my flower than, you know, in the trim, which, you know,
you normally go somewhere else.
What sort of client intake do you perform to make sure that your team is providing trimming
that matches the client's expectations?
Right.
So, so every time we get a new client, there's an intake they go through that sort of talks
about, do you trim your stuff wet?
Do you trim dry?
Is this just us prepping a large amount of cannabis to go into a trim machine, which
is one job, you know, that we do for really, really big clients?
Is this, are you going to make some sort of extract out of this?
Are you extracting in some way?
Are you making hash?
Are you, what are you doing?
You know, that's, that's the, the end game sort of can dictate the trim in some cases.
And then all the way down to, I want a loose leafy trim, maybe for something like a caviar
roll where you want to take all your excess keef and re-roll those buds in it.
So you, the leaves are something for it to stick to.
We have some clients who are absolutely, you know, because their medical clients are on
a, such a tight budget, they want to make sure there's not even any little tiny crow's
feet or anything left on the buds that's extra stem.
Because that's a lot of time what the client is looking for, you know, the end user.
So as the kind of intermediary, our big deal is you, we will do it exactly how you want.
Why we have the supervisors there who can interface directly with the client and get
really specific information on, on what the team is supposed to do.
And then also over time, you know, because a lot of places we go back over and over,
they'll develop a rapport and then it becomes, you know, almost fluid as a new member of
the team comes on to really get them up to speed on that particular style for that place
fairly quickly.
Right on.
That makes a lot of sense.
Let's, let's dive in one aspect of that a little more specific.
So, so let's say that you've got three clients.
One's going to make everything into bag hash.
One person is going to process it, you know, in a, in a, you know, a BHO tower or something.
And the third person is going to, you know, just, just roll it up and smoke it.
So, so how would you trim differently for those three clients?
Okay.
So for someone who's making, you know, doing a BHO extract, that may be, they may be wanting
a very heavy trim product and that may be all they're using to make their BHO.
They may be then separating out the bud or they may be doing what's called a nug run,
which would be that extraction using the buds as well.
So that would be the point of clarification there would obviously be, are you, you know,
is your main product goal for the, for the hash going to be the trim or the trim plus
the bud?
What are you, you know, which thing do you want?
And then, and then if they really want the everything together, the Phoenix tears, then,
then it would just be shucking, essentially getting it off of the stem and ready for,
you know, processing.
And that would probably happen wet and, and you wouldn't do much more to it after that.
But for somebody who's going to, you know, smoke the buds themselves, then typically
we would do something more of a D fan first in the harvest flip, and then, and then trim
it down dry because you can get a much finer trim on a dry product.
It's I think, you know, it's, it's a more time consuming manicure, but ultimately you're
getting a lot more flavor that's solely from the bud and you're, you'll lose that kind
of hay taste or smell a lot more quickly if you trim it that way.
I remember the first time I was involved with a grow for a large CO2 run and it was the
first time I had done shucking, right?
And you know, up to that point I had always just trimmed for personal smoke, right?
But then, you know, I'm, I was watching, I was being mentored and kind of learning how
to do this.
And I, and I saw these folks just like, you know, shuck it right off, off the branch and
it drops into the bin.
And I'm like, no effing way.
You know, you're all like, you're like, you know, somewhere in between is, is that disrespectful
to the flower to, oh my God, this is going to be the easiest trim ever.
Right?
Exactly.
Right.
And you're never really sure which thing is true when you're doing that process.
Well, especially if you're working for somebody else, right?
Yeah, absolutely.
And, you know, I mean, it's a big responsibility to get, take somebody's hard work over several
weeks and, and then, you know, take it from that state to a usable end product.
And that's really the intermediary that the trimmer performs in a lot of cases, especially
if it's not going through an extraction process.
You know, if, if, if the trimmer mangles the buds, they mangle the buds and that's, that's
it.
If they're squashed, they're squashed.
It's not like you can suddenly replace them.
It's like, oh, sorry.
No, there's no like little like bike tire pump that you can stick back into it and sort
of like, oops, you know, once you've squished it, it's, it's over.
And I think that that's why it's such an intense process.
Also these guys are working in, um, under extreme scrutiny.
And that's the other thing to keep in mind on the commercial level is that we'll have
a team of 10 people, they'll have, you know, three or four cameras on them at all times.
Uh, everything has to be meticulously weighed and accounted for because of the systems here
that are extremely rigorous in managing this whole market, both on the medical and retail
side.
So, you know, it's, it's a lot of responsibility and we don't take that lightly, nor does anyone
really in the whole chain of process that's involved with this on a commercial level.
You have to take it really seriously.
Right on.
We're going to take our first short break and be right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is Kristen Baldwin of Green Mountain
Harvest.
If you like podcasts like Shaping Fire, chances are that you will like audio books too.
Pretty much audio books are like podcasts except with less stuttering, better production
quality and more targeted topics.
Yeah, I know.
I make audio books sound better than a podcast and you know, maybe they are, but I get you.
I like podcasts too.
I like to learn from people talking to me while I'm doing something else like, you know,
driving or cleaning my house or making dinner or even being at work, whatever.
Here's the thing.
Audible.com has an offer I want to tell you about.
Right now they are offering a trial of their audio book service for absolutely free.
You can go to shapingfire.com forward slash audible and you will get a free audio book
straight up.
You can listen to it on your mobile device, on your computer, or you can download it and
listen to it pretty much anywhere.
It's really simple.
You know, of course, they really want you to subscribe to their service forever and
enjoy more and more audio books.
But as cannabis users, you also know how this goes.
The first one is free.
They're going to hate it when I say that, but it's pretty great.
You know, I listened recently to Smoke Signals by Martin Lee from projectcbd.org.
Martin's book is a classic of cannabis advocacy.
He explains the history of cannabis in America, THC and CBD cannabis science, and why cannabis
policy in America has gotten so jacked.
You know, if you consider yourself a cannabis person, this book really is a must.
Talking cannabis, we all sound radical just because we're talking about weed, but if you
learn the history and science of cannabis, suddenly you become smart and trustworthy
to people.
The book was really incredible and there's no doubt that Martin Lee is the real deal.
You can get the book for free just for doing the trial.
You know, if you don't want to listen to a cannabis book, that's cool too.
There's everything else.
There's sci-fi and history, biography.
Hell, you can even listen to a book about card counting in blackjack.
Whatever, it's all pretty rad.
So here's the deal.
Your first book is free.
It's easy to sign up.
It's easy to quit.
But they do do a pretty good job making you want to stay every month.
Just check it out.
Go to shapingfire.com forward slash audible to find out more.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose.
And our guest this week is Kristen Baldwin, director of operations at Green Mountain Harvest.
So in the first set, we talked a lot about kind of the idea of the trimming business
and the kinds of people who hire you and actually how damn necessary it is in the new legal
market.
And it's funny because a lot of people have trimmed before.
And so a lot of people have got their preferred method and their preferred scissors.
And so I'm like totally curious.
In online grower forums, it seems like everybody has their own favorite scissors.
I myself like small spring-loaded scissors with a curved tip so I can like get on in
there in the flower.
But my growing mentor, he prefers tiny scissors without a spring but with really big hand
openings.
Do you find that your team, like everybody likes their own style or is there a particular
style that seems to really come out as being universally best by professionals?
Sure.
Yeah.
So we – I think in the early days of Green Mountain Harvest, so that was like six years
ago, they did experiment with several different styles of shears.
And what we've settled on and really we provide all of the tools through a supervisor
kit that they carry in the field.
We use the Hydrofarm curved blade shearer and we chose that one because for a few reasons.
One, it's super affordable.
We think it's a really good price point.
The curved blade, kind of like you said, is really what we think creates the tightest
trim and also it's the easiest on your wrist we find because you're not curving your
hand as often.
The blade is curved.
So you can have a straighter arm and allow the curve of the blade and then the twist
of the plant rather than arcing your wrist at a funny angle.
And that makes me think about OSHA standards and just general worker health.
You're in this odd position because your company has the state level but obviously
cannabis is still illegal federally.
What kind of best practices have you put together for creating an environment that
is ergonomically healthy for your trimmers even though they've spent their entire day
using their hands and probably sitting down which is probably two of the worst things
that you could be doing?
Yeah, for sure.
So actually, we really, really made a point of keeping safety as a main priority for our
team.
So to that effect, when they are hired, they're given a set of exercises for their wrists
and their backs.
We also have a system in place where our trimmers can sit or stand and they can go back and
forth.
So unless there's some really heavy space constraints that would disallow somebody from
being able to get up and choose to sit or stand, we encourage people to really take
both of those options.
And surprisingly, though OSHA is a federal organization, they have been great working
with me directly over my years in this industry regardless of the context and really come
and educated us and had open dialogue with the industry.
So yeah, we're in a funny place.
There's no doubt about that.
But our main goal is to create an environment for our trimmers that's healthy.
So that also involves not just an ergonomic situation but some other things as well.
To that effect, we have some other things.
Masks, if there's any kind of mold or mildew present, we use a food-grade brown butcher
paper on the tables so that each environment is sterile.
Our trimmers all use a new set of gloves after each break so they are able to have left the
building and come back in clean.
Do you have a daily team that's pretty much full-time or is it pretty much all part-timers
who are on call?
So all of our people are part-time.
They are employees with us which allows them to be covered under our workman's comp which
is a huge key in this industry.
Really trying to put as many of those standards of normal working conditions in place for
people even though again we're in that funny gray area.
But generally the trimmers work between 25 and 35 hours a week.
December is certainly slower.
We joke that we think that the trimmers get less work because the growers plan not to
have to harvest right around Christmas because why would they want to?
And that's fine.
We can plan for that.
I'm looking at our January schedule and it's totally insane.
I think everyone who didn't harvest in December is harvesting in January.
And then we also sort of lovingly call October hemptober here in Colorado because all the
big outdoor farms, that's a big, big time for them.
So that can be really fun and exciting little trips for the trimmers out to these really
cool outdoor big, big, really, really nice farms.
That's one of the funny things about outdoor, isn't it?
The idea of harvest.
Obviously there's lots of indoor in the country and there's certainly way more harvesting
taking place as far as around the calendar.
But in volume, harvest, suddenly you're needed everywhere.
Do you have a seasonal spike where you need to over hire just for harvest season and then
you get back down to a more basic crew for the rest of the year?
We actually don't follow that kind of hiring practice.
Once you're an employee with us, you're an employee and we do our best to provide you
hours consistently.
And so for us, it really is a balance of demanding excellence from our team so that the people
that do stay with us are the best ones and then making sure that those people can have
work.
And it's a delicate balance.
I do handle a lot of the hiring and firing and all the stuff in between.
And I do find that I do want to be able to provide work for people immediately when I
hire them.
But I do have to caution them that this is a business where there are lulls.
And so we give our employees the opportunity to sort of create their own schedules in the
sense that they have some big flexibility there.
Which to that effect, if they need to have another part time job to supplement this,
we understand that that's part of the deal.
On that note, is it hard to find skilled trimmers to fill all the ranks because so many people
say they've got experience and then maybe they're too slow or distracted or sloppy or
drunk or whatever?
Yeah.
So all those things have happened.
And that's part of why we have this supervisor in the field for each group of 12 trimmers.
That allows us to sort of, regardless of what your resume says, really watch what you do
in that first 30-day probation period.
And then if we can't get you up to speed in that first 30 days, then typically that'll
be it for people who just can't cut the mustard.
And sometimes the other side of the equation is true.
People find out that they really can't or don't enjoy the repetitive nature of the job.
And so we do have people who will do it for a couple of weeks and then say, yeah, I don't
want to do this.
But for people that want to put their headphones on and listen to an awesome podcast like this
one and trim some plants and be with some great people, it's a great job.
The other cool thing is that we can hire people with some disabilities.
So that's pretty neat because it's like you have a walker.
Hey, man, if you can get into the facility and we'll make sure you can, then you can
sit down and trim.
And that's good for people who are retired.
We have a lot of folks that just trim with us one or two days a week and have their own
And so the team grows and just love it and have been with us for years and years.
We have other people who are fast, young people directly from the industry in the last few
years who just are amazing and so, so, so, so fast.
So that's the other side of the workforce is people who've just been trained commercially
in the last few years.
But we don't hire anyone directly who doesn't have some sort of trimming experience.
If you don't have any trimming experience, then we have a trimmer training school sort
of program you can choose to go through.
You know, I've met some folks who are on the autistic spectrum and it's amazing how appropriate
trimming is for a lot of the folks who have got the hyper-focused ability and they can
work for long periods of time.
You just like, you know, you allow them to wear their headphones and let them know what
you need done and boom.
And you're like, damn, it was done fast and efficiently and in good cheer.
And, you know, it's really great.
It's amazing the kinds of people, you know, who are able to work in our industry who have
not necessarily had the opportunity before.
Can folks get high on the job?
No, no, no.
Yeah, there's really strict regulations in place around use anywhere within 500 feet
of a commercial facility, whether it's a grow or a store or an extraction facility.
You can't use the product or even bring personal product into that facility.
So technically, when you go into a dispensary, you're not supposed to even have any cannabis
already on you.
And technically, if they see that, they have to ask you to leave.
And if one of our trimmers is observed using cannabis within 500 feet of a facility, we
have to fire him that day because they can lose their badge, essentially, to work in
the industry for just that.
I can imagine that for a lot of trimmers, that's a deal breaker right there.
Like, listen, if I'm going to be trimming 30 hours a week, I want to be high for it.
So no good, no good for me.
Right. Well, you know, what you do at home is your business.
What time of day you do that is also your business.
What you do when you leave the facility is your business.
But what you do while you have to be at the facility, that's the key.
So, you know, on a 15 minute break where you're not allowed to leave, you can go outside
and stretch. But, you know, it's 15 minutes.
You can't leave the facility.
You can't smoke weed.
And that, you know, I feel like there's ways that people could probably get around that
if their dosage requires like a morning use, they could maybe supplement with an edible
or something else. I mean, no one is suggesting that, especially for a medical patient,
they don't do what they need to do.
But you can't be using the product on the job.
That's the main thing. And that's, you know, true just across the board.
And I think that that's one of the big differences between, you know, what people think
we do in this industry and what we do is that there really isn't a lot of use in the
actual manifestation of the industry itself.
That's sort of a completely separate thing at this point.
And I think the more commercial and commodity based it becomes, it's going to continue
in that direction.
I remember when everybody was working in medical and it was much less regulated and loose,
you know, everybody would get high at the beginning of, you know, just about every
business meeting. And because that's how cannabis culture was, you know, I found that
frustrating a lot of time because even though I got to try some amazing, you know,
flowers and oils from that people would bring to the meetings at the same time, so many
of the folks would not remember the key points of the meeting or what they or what they
committed to do. And then I would have to send follow up emails to remind them what
they agreed to. So even though even though I enjoy the social aspects of it, I do see
as as cannabis businesses are getting more serious, the less people who are doing it,
you know, cooked.
It's yeah, I mean, it's sort of like, you know, I guess the three martini lunch would be
the closest equation, you know, and even if you're in the beer industry, you're not
testing beers at 9am every day, like you just you can't do it.
It's just like in any industry where there's this quality to it, where there's some sort
of, you know, state of alteration that's going to occur.
I think that, you know, in this industry, the reality is you're trying to mitigate that
weird gray area, that weird federal state gray area.
And so I think this is one of the ways that they've done that.
And then the other side of it is exactly what you're talking about.
Professionally at 10am, you know, would it be appropriate to pop a bottle of wine, maybe
on a special day, but probably not, you know, probably not if you want to get a lot done.
So what people need to do to take care of themselves medically, again, is another thing.
But I would say recreational use in a meeting is really bad, especially because you could
have 10 different people who respond to that particular strain super differently.
So that could be one that's really like makes you really focused.
But it may not work that way for this whole group of people that, you know, now you have
to make decisions with.
Yeah, yeah, that makes sense.
So we're going to take another short break and be right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire, and my guest today is Kristen Baldwin of Green Mountain
Harvest.
Businesses everywhere are constantly striving to reach out to people through advertising.
We all know, though, that trying to reach a cannabis audience with a quality message is
pretty difficult. That's why many people choose to advertise on the Shaping Fire podcast.
Advertising on this show allows us time to talk about your product, service or brand in a way
that really lets people know what sets your company apart from others.
Bold people who own companies know that getting in a relationship with their customers is
essential. That is what we offer.
We will explain your service or product and what sets it apart as desirable and help our
audience get in contact with you.
It's pretty simple, really.
Advertising does not have to be all whiz-bang, smoke and mirrors.
Nowadays, I find that people prefer just to be spoken to calmly, accurately and with good
intentions. If you want to make your own commercial spot, you can do that, too.
Because the podcast is young but growing at an exceptionally fast rate, if you become an
advertiser on the Shaping Fire podcast now, you are going to pay a fraction of the cost we'll be
asking for in just a few months.
And yet everyone listening both now and to the back catalog of interviews later will hear about
your company again and again for years.
It's a great deal for you.
Pay a small amount now because the show is new, but take advantage of the huge listening
audience we will have forever.
Do yourself a solid and contact us today for rates on podcast and newsletter advertising.
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out more.
Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lohson.
Our guest this week is Kristen Baldwin, Director of Operations at Green Mountain Harvest.
So before the break, we were talking about a lot of the specifics on not only running a
business, but working the best possible customer service with either the commercial growers or
with personal growers.
And during the break, I was thinking about it and it made me wonder about employee theft
because in a big commercial environment, maybe you can do something on the slide that the
cameras don't see.
And if you're in a real informal situation in somebody's home, I can imagine being able to
abscond with some there.
What's your experience with employee theft?
Was that much of an issue?
Yeah. So, you know, we really, really, really just sort of impale with every ounce of our
strength into our employees how dumb it would be to try.
So we don't typically have a lot of problem with that.
That being said, you know, people try all kinds of crazy things.
Like what?
Like there was an incident in one of the very first dispensaries that I worked in where the
employee, he was in on their trim team.
And what he would do would be to put like several gloves over his glove and then he would
successively put a butt in each glove and stick it in his pocket as he was trimming.
But, you know, I don't think that he really understood that his Adidas like running pants
were very much showing the outline of these like what looked like golf balls in his
pockets. And so, you know, I noticed this and I couldn't figure out what was going on
because he definitely didn't have golf balls in his pocket when he came to work.
So that was one of those situations where, you know, I think it seemed like a good plan
at the outset.
But in execution, particularly with the number of cameras that he was visible on, it just
did not go well for him.
Yeah, I can imagine that.
You know, and what I find is, you know, there's so much cannabis just around in the
industry. It's kind of a really dumb play to steal from work.
It really is.
It's just so easy.
You know, everybody's got it in the industry.
So why would you then go and risk your job to steal it?
Right. But here's a funny thing.
Like, you know, even at the beginning, there was a whole point of contention around, well,
what do you do with the little buds that fall on the floor?
Right. Like, oh, it's floor weed.
That just kind of like in the early days, that was just sort of going out the door.
It was floor weed, you know.
But even that in the long term had to be accounted for and there had to be standards of
operation put in place to say, no, you have to actually take that back and weigh it and
say, this is how much we wasted and and account for it and then destroy it.
You can't just sweep it up and stick it in a jar and take it home.
So let's let's flip that dynamic around.
Instead of the trimmer stealing, like how let's talk about arbitrage.
Like what is what if you get like a, you know, somebody who's got a personal grow and in
lieu of paying you for some or all of it, they want to give you your trim or give you
their trim for you to then like resell to, you know, a BHO person or something.
Does is that is that a is that legal?
B, is that something that you ever come across?
Right. So no, that's not legal.
You know, the only intermediary we would be in that process would be if we're brought
in to trim and then they're separating those things out and they send it with a licensed
courier from their operation or another to take that to an operator.
We can't we can't have the product at any point.
That's the nature of the product.
The difference in our licensing doesn't allow us to to have it, to move it, to grow it,
to sell it.
Nothing like that, because that requires a much different license than what we have.
We're an ancillary vendor.
So we don't we don't have middleman on the deal.
We can't. Yeah.
We all that stuff is RFID tag.
So essentially, we don't own or move any RFID tagged product.
So so let's let's talk about licenses in a different way.
So up to this point, we've been talking about either having a license to do a cannabis
business or an individual person having their badge, which allows them to work in the
industry. But let's but you know, I have not I have not seen a license that has a
individual person.
I have not come across actually.
I mean, you're the only one actually.
You're the you're the first trim company that I've come across, which is why I was so
curious to have you on the show.
And, you know, I've been I've been all over the country talking to people at this point.
And so I think that, you know, the days of trimming businesses have have now have now
arrived and you're going to be having a lot more competition soon.
to other states to license your intellectual property and, you know, not not a franchise,
right, because we all understand that franchising isn't legal.
But but, you know, are you looking to expand the Green Mountain Harvest name into other
states?
We are absolutely.
Yeah, we have business opportunities now available in any state where it's medical or
retail or somewhere in between.
We are available to create business opportunities for, you know, people who want to do this
there.
And when the owner, Susan Jachowski, started this six years ago, she really saw a need
for this in the industry and no one else was doing it.
And she had to go to the state and say, this is what I want to do.
And they said, wow, that's a really good idea.
We hadn't even thought about that.
You know, that hadn't even crossed anybody's mind that this was a really valuable and necessary
piece of the puzzle to make all this work.
So we have lots of different services available to that end.
We sometimes just go and we'll train teams of trimmers for people that already have an
existing operation and want to have an on-site team.
So we've sent people to other states and we'll send, you know, again, some of our supervisors
and Susan, the owner, will go and they stay for a few days or a week or two and they get
everybody up to speed.
That's one option.
The other option is to actually, you know, become a partner, a Green Mountain Harvest
partner and carry that name into another state.
And in that case, then, you know, you get a huge amount of our intellectual property
and our standard practices and how we operate in that gray area successfully, which is kind
of part of the key for sure.
Let's circle back to you mentioning Susan going to the state to try to get the blessing
for this kind of a business model because that is a really important entrepreneurial
point.
Right.
And a lot of people are like, oh, now that cannabis is legal, I'm just going to start
a business and I don't have to be an activist.
But I think that all entrepreneurs in cannabis have to remain activists.
I mean, not only to make sure that your local government doesn't pass some kind of moratorium
that's going to suddenly, you know, tie your hands, but what Susan did, you know, Susan
had to come up not only with the business idea, but then she had to lobby for it with
regulators so that there was a license allowance for it.
And I think that's a, you know, that's extra credit to Susan for stepping up and following
that.
And I think that's a good lesson for everybody that, you know, you might have a groundbreaking
idea and you're going to have to sell it to your regulators.
Absolutely.
I mean, yeah, it's all about being part of the movement overall.
And so you may have a great idea and you may be really scared about, you know, coming out
of a gray market or a black market with that idea.
But unless you stand up and unless you become part of the movement and say, this is what
I'm doing and this is why it's important, then, you know, you don't move us all forward
as a whole.
And that's really what she did was say, not only do I want to have, you know, provide
a safe way to handle the product for this particular point in its process, but also
what does a business model look like that really supports its employees as if this were
any other industry?
You have to have workman's comp.
You have to make people employees and not have them work as contract labor, which is
so often what people are more apt to do because it's easier for the employer, but it provides
the employee no protection.
They're not an employee.
They're just, they're not, they have no protection.
So Susan really did say, I want to do this, but I want to do this right.
And what does this look like?
And got amazing certifications put in place for our company that sort of say we are the
most compliant and this is how that looks.
And that's why I was excited to come and work with her after years of doing other things
in the industry for sure.
And I think that it really helps the industry as a whole when people like Susan provide
that leadership because then the regulators can point and say, look, here's a good actor
who's doing it the right way, who is doing the things that cause us to feel more safe
as regulators.
And then, you know, hopefully eventually some of those regulations can be a little loosened
so that they don't cost as much for companies to comply.
But for now, you know, we've got this strange dance between entrepreneurs and regulators
of, you know, what can the entrepreneurs get away with versus the regulators wanting to,
you know, regulate and or ban everything because they're afraid of risk.
Absolutely.
And that's why people have to be really vocal and they have to get out there.
And, you know, even to the point of for children who are using cannabis patches in schools,
that was a big, big hurdle that we had to overcome here in Colorado, helping people
understand that this is a medicine and that these kids are using it.
They're not getting high at school.
A kid in a wheelchair who can move their arms solely because they've started using
these patches isn't getting high.
They're having a better quality of life.
So even something as, you know, simple as that takes a huge group of people and a lot
of effort and a lot of people coming forward.
So, you know, what I would say to anyone in those states that where it's still kind
of gray is don't stay in the dark.
Just get out there and be vocal and get ready to sort of be part of something special because,
you know, the amazing other side of this is that after you've been in a state where it's
gone recreational and you've supported the medical market and you've seen, you know,
what's happened here in Colorado, some of the outcomes with people getting out of jail
and all the cool stuff that happens on the side with the medical research and the kids
getting better and the seizures going away, it's just, it's worth coming out of the dark.
And you know, like Susan is going to Pennsylvania, for example, where, you know, to speak at
a conference that's all just for doctors who are, you know, just getting the doctors on
board is crucial.
So, you know, there's work to be done in every state and what I say is just be brave
and go do it.
Thanks for being on the show today, Kristen.
Thank you.
It's my pleasure.
How exciting.
Thank you for doing such good work and getting this information out there.
Kristen Baldwin is director of operations of Green Mountain Harvest.
You can find out more at greenmountainharvest.com.
You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the show at
shapingfire.com and on Apple iTunes, Stitcher, and Google Play.
If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it if you'd leave a positive review of the
podcast wherever you download.
Your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too.
On the Shaping Fire website, you can also subscribe to the weekly newsletter for insights
into the latest cannabis news and product reviews.
On the Shaping Fire website, you will also find transcripts of today's podcast as well.
For more information on me and where I'll be speaking, you can check out shangolose.com.
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire.
I've been your host, Shango Lose.
