Without a doubt, the most important group of folks in the cannabis scene are the
cannabis patients. Of course, I am happy for everyone to have better access to
cannabis, but for me, helping defend patient access to clean and legal
cannabis and making sure they are educated in how to use it is my driving
force. Even though I'm not a doctor, because I interview so many doctors and
I bother to read the scientific papers that come out about cannabis medicine,
lots of folks approach me at cannabis conventions, at the grocery, or even on
the ferry back home to Vashon Island to ask for suggestions in relieving their
symptoms of this or that. In most cases, I have read something or done an
interview on a particular topic and have something helpful to say. Some topics I'm
particularly deep on and I'll teach those to small groups. One of the most
asked about topics is Parkinson's disease. Parkinson's has become
incredibly common and there are a lot of good people getting bad information
about how best to use cannabis for Parkinson's relief. Today we're going to
fix that. If you want to learn about cannabis health, business, and technique
efficiently and with good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our
newsletter. We'll send you new podcast episodes as they come out, delivered
right to your inbox, along with commentary on a couple of the most
important news items from the week and videos too. Don't rely on social media to
let you know when a new episode is published. Sign up for the updates to
make sure you don't miss an episode. Also, we're giving away very cool prizes to
folks who are signed up to receive the newsletter. There's nothing else you need
to do to win except receive that newsletter, so go to shapingfire.com to
sign up for the newsletter and be entered in this month's and all future
newsletter prize drawings. We have an extra giveaway this episode because we
are moving into home gardening season. Our friends at Dynomyco asked me to help
them give away several hundred retail sized bags of their endomycorrhizal
inoculant. You'll hear more about their great product during the first
commercial break, but for now I just want to give you the URL of
dynomyco.com forward slash shapingfire. That is a link to a page on their
website where they are collecting addresses to mail out these samples for
absolutely free. They have committed to sending out at least 300 packages to the
Shaping Fire audience. This is a very popular soil starter, so do not delay in
filling out the form at dynomyco.com forward slash shapingfire. You are
listening to Shaping Fire and I'm your host, Shango Lose. Today my guest is
cannabis researcher and educator Zoe Sigman. Zoe travels the US teaching
groups and writing articles on cannabino-pathic medicine. She is the
former program director at ProjectCBD.org and is presently science editor at
Broccoli Magazine. She has built out educational content focusing on
scientific information about cannabis for organizations like Pharma and
Groundworks Industries, Oregon Health and Sciences University, and Hudson Hemp.
Sigman has also testified about CBD and cannabis regulation to the FDA and
regularly speaks about cannabis and cannabis science to patients, medical
professionals, and consumers. Today we're going to talk all about Parkinson's
disease. The first set explains what Parkinson's is, the second set explains
how cannabis works in the human body to relieve Parkinson's, and the last set is
about proper dosing protocols and best practices for using cannabis in real
life applications. Our goal is to provide actionable information for Parkinson's
patients and those who love them. Welcome to the show, Zoe. Hey, Shango, how are you?
Doing great. Thank you so much for giving us some of your valuable time. I know
you're on the road and I appreciate you being with us. Thank you so much for
having me on. So Parkinson's disease and a handful of similar afflictions are
often put in a basket together because they share many of the same causes and
symptoms. So let's start there to make sure that we're all on the same page
about what we're going to be talking about today. One of the most prevalent
visible symptoms of advanced Parkinson's disease is the tremors, usually
starting in one hand and then unfortunately spreading from there.
What are some of the signs of Parkinson's that people commonly become
aware of first? Yeah, I mean the tremor really is the first sort of noticeable
physical sign of Parkinson's. Unfortunately at that point the disease
is pretty far progressed. Really early signs that I have come across are
constipation and a loss of smell. So they're very subtle symptoms early on. So
it really is sort of when the tremors start that people start to think, oh
this is Parkinson's disease. That's interesting. I had not heard about the
the loss of sense of smell. And for a lot of people I think that they
go, oh you know maybe that's a stuff nose or maybe it's allergies or something. Or
age, you know. Yeah, yeah. And as we know by the time the tremors have
arrived you've already lost so many dopamine-creating brain cells
that we're already far down the path. So yeah at that point it's you've lost 60%
of the dopamine-producing neurons. So it's a lot. Yeah it is a lot.
And usually by the time people get to cannabis they have already,
you know, Parkinson's is already part of their life. They've already been going to
doctors for it. They've got a diagnosis and they are
weighing treatment at this point. But I don't want to give symptoms
short shrift because we're gonna be talking about the symptoms a lot more
later on when we're gonna be talking about how cannabis can help relieve some
of those symptoms. So why don't we do a little more of a review of what those
symptoms are like. And let's talk about them in two categories. Would you
first talk about the early, maybe less recognizable symptoms like a sense of
smell. And then talk a bit more about the ones that we're
more familiar with like the shuffling of the feet and bending over a little
bit. And it's just for people who maybe are not the Parkinson's patient
themselves who are listening but maybe have a loved one. Let's dig
into that a bit. So some of the early symptoms and these are also secondary
symptoms later in the disease progression are digestive issues. So not
just constipation but oftentimes like nausea or loss of appetite. Mood
disorders are also common. Anxiety and depression. This is both, it could be an
early symptom. It's also we're adults and people who are getting older often
have a little bit more anxiety about getting older. And so again it's not like
a concrete way to determine whether or not you have Parkinson's. Pain, sleeping
issues. These are all things that can be indicative of Parkinson's disease early
on but they're also just common ailments as we age with other conditions. So it's
difficult to say if they're directly connected to Parkinson's but they are
common in people with Parkinson's disease. As the disease progresses into
the motor symptoms you of course get the tremors. There's something called
bradykinesia which is a slowed movement. So it's this inability to consciously
move quickly. There's rigid muscles, impaired posture, loss of the ability to
control your movements completely. And so it's like you have muscle spasticity, you
have tremors, all of these like different involuntary movements are in
slightly different categories. But they are, they can look pretty similar to
people who are not experiencing them. And that's one of the challenges right?
Because like one of the things that everyone recommends for Parkinson's is to
start treating early but so many of the early symptoms could be so many different
things. You know swallowing problems and chewing and eating problems and sleeping
problems and you know constipation. So many different things can be causing
these including like other medications that you may be on because all this
stuff is is side effects from other pharmaceuticals. And more often than not
the patients that I have worked with it is when the tremors start to arrive and
and you really have the difficulty with motor function, tremors, the slight
hunching over, the shuffling of the feet because you can't get in a good step.
It's somewhere in there that either they or their spouse or a good friend
points out, hey do you know that you're doing this? And that's when
people start going oh man maybe this maybe this isn't just something from the
pharmaceuticals maybe this as a package is something more serious. Right, right.
And that's a really hard realization for a lot of people and you know it's sort
of at that point you can go in and the doctor can test for some like biomarkers
of the disease. But if you're already if you're already there it's sort of like
okay here we go. Yeah. So all right so so let's talk about more the the underlying
what Parkinson's is. And I know that it gets gray real fast because yeah real
fast because you know we don't we don't really know. However it is common to be
around you know with Parkinson's groups and have people say that it's it's
difficult for them to figure out sometimes which of their symptoms are
causing the Parkinson's and which of their symptoms are coming from the
Parkinson's. And and I often offer a delineation to patients that it is not
really as effective to try to determine which is causing which. It's it's almost
like these things are a package that start to show up at the same time and
and and the same attributes that that we use to diagnose Parkinson's also cause
these other symptoms. And it's very often difficult to figure out you know
which came first the chicken or the egg right which came first the symptoms or
the Parkinson's. So so will you kind of get to the heart of the matter and let
us have a better understanding of what the state of the science is about what
Parkinson's is and its cause to the best that we know and so that we can start
teasing out symptoms from cause. Totally. So I mean you are right to say that it
gets gray really quickly. So there's a couple of underlying causes for
Parkinson's disease neurologically. So it's characterized by the loss of
neurons that produce dopamine in a particular part of the brain and
therefore a loss of dopamine in other parts of the brain later on. It's also
marked by an accumulation of these protein clusters called Lewy bodies. Now
that really is sort of like a dead end. There's not a lot about Lewy bodies out
there. It's just sort of like here's a biomarker of Parkinson's disease. If you
see an accumulation of this kind of protein this is associated with this
disease. For the most part people and researchers are focused on the dopamine
aspect of the disease. The loss of dopamine. How to prevent the loss of the
neurons that produce dopamine. How to preserve dopamine that's hanging out in
your brain. And other than that the pathophysiology is very gray. We don't
really know what factors play into the development of Parkinson's disease. It
could be genetic. It could be environmental. We know that there are a
couple of symptoms neurologically that are associated with Parkinson's but only
Parkinson's. What you were talking about earlier where Parkinson's disease is
included in a lot of other neurodegenerative diseases. Those
diseases are often associated with neuroinflammation, oxidative stress,
excitotoxicity, calcium channel dysregulation, a bunch of things in the
brain that show that something is not functioning properly. And so Parkinson's
exhibits all of those things as well. And so that actually brings us back to this
idea that Parkinson's and its kind of related ailments, you know
Parkinsonian syndrome and you know the things that are all kind of often put in
this basket. They're very often diagnosed by symptoms instead of what's going on
in the body. Which is always strange right? Like other diseases like
like lupus is another one of those right? They're like wow we don't know what it
is but if you've got this basket of symptoms we're gonna we're gonna call it
lupus so that we can talk about it. Right. But to distill what you just
said down to what I think is the essential kernel. The essential kernel
seems to be that for our conversation today Parkinson's is
the loss of neurons that create dopamine and it is the lack of
the dopamine in the dopamine serotonin cycle that starts to cause the more
serious aspects that we are more familiar with with motor and
mobility skills. Exactly. So oddly enough when we during next set when we
start talking more about how cannabis acts on Parkinson's explaining to
patients that in essence this bigger picture that is threatening their
life it comes down to these dopamine creating neurons. In my experience
patients feel a certain amount of I don't know they're glad for the clarity
of purpose right? Because Parkinson's is kind of this big amorphous thing
that there are many opinions on but when you bring it down to this one thing that
that you're losing these neurons and that's what is inhibiting your life
patients tend to give me the you know they get this look of a ha moment
and they're like oh now I can now I can kind of focus on understanding this
because I've named my monster and I know what it is. Right yeah and in those terms
it can be much easier for someone to approach it too because you know most of
us have heard of dopamine and so if you say hey this is what's going on people
have something to grab on to and then you know sometimes I have found people
who have chronic illnesses like Parkinson's disease become huge nerds
about their own condition and so it's just it's an incredibly useful tool to
say like hey here's one of the causes this is what we think is one of the
causes of Parkinson's disease. So if we're using Parkinson's disease as the
primary let's say the flagship ailment in this basket can you elucidate a
little bit what the other ailments in this basket might be like I've already
mentioned Parkinsonian syndrome but honestly that's the only one I other one
I know. They're often I mean Parkinson's disease research is often done in
conjunction or sort of lumped together with things like Huntington's disease or
multiple sclerosis or Alzheimer's disease so they're they all have
different pathophysiologies they're all you can definitely tell in the body in
the brain that these are different conditions but as far as treatment and
the underlying causes they're often discussed in the same sort of way.
There's specific research in each of those areas of course but especially
when you get into how cannabis interacts with these diseases it's they're
frequently presented together. So I know that you are very hardcore about keeping
up on the up-to-date research on a wide range of diseases that you're very
focused on. Is there a lot of research going on with Parkinson's and cannabis
right now? I mean clearly there's more science going on now with cannabis than
there there has been ever in in human experience before but still technically
since cannabis is a schedule one drug and illegal at the federal level it's
difficult to get cannabis studies approved at all and so clearly there's
Parkinson's research going on but how about Parkinson's and cannabis research?
Yeah actually I'm pretty impressed with the amount of cannabis research that
focuses on Parkinson's disease and it largely focuses on CBD and I think that
as CBD has become more and more legal researchers are really latching on to it
as a compound that could be beneficial for a number of diseases including
Parkinson's. That said the evidence that cannabis could be useful for Parkinson's
has been around for a really long time like since the late 19th century before
Parkinson's disease was called Parkinson's disease. There was
evidence that cannabis at that point cannabis indica could help relieve some
of the spasticity and shaking of the condition that is now known as
Parkinson's disease and so there are older pieces of research that focus on
cannabis without being specific about the cannabinoid content or THC. There's
also evidence coming out about endocannabinoids, minor cannabinoids
like THCV, CBG, all of these things are areas that researchers are starting to
look at and from the perspective of Parkinson's I think it is because
Parkinson's is one of the most common neurodegenerative diseases in our older
population and so there's a in addition to that there isn't really a good
treatment for it. There aren't medications at this point that slow
the progression of Parkinson's disease. There is really one or a very
small handful of medications that can treat the symptoms but the disease will
continue to progress and so researchers are really dead set on trying to find
compounds that can slow the progression and I think that that's why there's been
so much interest in cannabis and cannabinoids. Yeah absolutely and you
know it's interesting that you mentioned that that cannabis has been
used for Parkinson's before it was recognized as Parkinson's you know going
back a hundred years because you know when you see these old antique bottles
of cannabis you're reminded that you know historically cannabis has been you
know some 70% of the pharmacopeia of what we humans used for everything. Right.
And you know the fact that cannabis being taboo is only really
something of the last you know 70 years or so and though I must admit there is
it is crazy to see some of the concoctions that are in these bottles
you know. Oh my god. They'll throw you know cannabis and morphine and cocaine
in the same bottle and they'll say this is medicine. And alcohol. And alcohol.
Totally. And you're like oh you know that that will definitely cure what ails you.
But this brings us up to where we where we are right and I'm sure most folks are
most curious about how can they actually use cannabis to treat their Parkinson's
and maybe roll back its progression. And we're gonna start that in a moment for
the second set. So let's go ahead and take our first short break and be
right back. You are listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is cannabis
researcher and educator Zoe Sigman. One of the reasons why no-till cannabis
growing is so valued by farmers is because the mycelium networks in the
soil remain established from year to year. And we know these fungal networks
are essential because they are the nutrient superhighways that extend far
and wide in the substrate to feed your plants. The trouble with growing in new
soils or blended cocoa substrates is that it takes most of the plant's life
just to create these mycelium highways. Dinomyco endomycorrhizal fungi inoculant
reduces that time and gets your plant eating a wider array of nutrients faster.
And it's three times the concentration of the current leading brand in the US
at 900 propagules per gram of two fungal species selected specifically for
cannabis cultivation. This new product called Dinomyco is the result of 30
years of research and trials at the Volcani Agriculture Research Institute
in Israel. It has also been vigorously trialed by cannabis and food growers
across the US since the product first arrived here last year. You may have
already even heard about Dinomyco by its original name, Dynamike. Now Dinomyco is
available at grow shops and online in the United States for the first time.
I love using Dinomyco to both speed up the growth of mycelium networks in the
soil but also as a biostimulant to make clone cuttings more virile. You can see
side-by-sides showing the comparative growth on their Instagram at Dinomyco.
If you demand reliable growing results and appreciate the importance of an
active root zone in creating a thriving plant I encourage you to check out
Dinomyco at Dinomyco.com and find out where you can get yours.
That's D-Y-N-O-M-Y-C-O dot com. Whether you are starting with new beds or pots or
if you want to add some zing to tired soil, choose Dinomyco to maximize your
plant's potential. Dinomyco endomycorrhizal inoculant.
Did you know that Shaping Fire has a fabulous YouTube channel with content not found on
the podcast? When I attend conventions or speak or moderate panels, I always record
them and bring the content home for you to watch. The Shango Lose YouTube channel has
world-class speakers including Kevin Joudry of Wonderland Nursery talking about breeding
cannabis for the best terpene profile, Nicholas Mahmood on regenerative and polyculture cannabis
growing, Dr. Sunil Agarwal on the history of cannabis medicine around the world, Ben
Cassidy of True Terpenes on using terpenes for health in your everyday life, Reggie Godino
of Steep Hill on the cannabis genome, and Jeff Lowenfels on the soil food web.
There are several presentations from Dr. Ethan Russo on terpenes and the endocannabinoid
system and even my own presentation on how to approach finding your dream job in cannabis
and why we choose cannabis business even though the risks are so high. As of today, there
are over 100 videos that you can check out for absolutely free. Go to youtube.com forward
slash shango lose or click on the link in this week's newsletter.
This message is for folks who grow cannabis. I'm talking to home growers, patients, and
commercial growers too. I'm probably talking to you. When you plan out your next growing
cycle, be sure to check out Humboldt CSI seeds at humboldtcsi.com. Caleb Inspecta and
his family have lived in Humboldt County for over 100 years. For the last 40 years, three
generations of his family have cultivated extraordinary Sensamea cannabis in Humboldt,
Mendocino, and Trinity counties. Because of his lineage and the hard-earned experience
that comes from growing up smoking and sifting large populations of cannabis plants in Northern
California, the seeds you'll cop from CSI will be winning genetics based on long-time
heavy hitters and updated and re-sifted to bring out new and exotic traits and better
yields. Go ahead and ask around. Caleb, also known as Inspecta and Pirates of the Emerald
Triangle is a breeder's breeder. He reaches way back and works with significant strains,
recreating them in new and interesting ways that you'll love as a toker and a grower,
as well as offering you some surprises that will delight serious seed traders and cultivators.
Humboldt CSI goes a further step and selfs all these chemovars so you know all the seeds
will be female. These are not experimental feminized seeds. Humboldt CSI releases some
of the best female seeds available anywhere, and it will show in your garden. Folks grew
quite a bit of CSI Humboldt GenX last year here on Vashon Island, and everyone was pleased.
The patients had beautiful female plants and didn't have to cull half of their garden
as males. The folks growing for the fun of getting high grew colorful flowers with exceptional
bag appeal and great highs. And breeders had 7 out of 7 females in a pack, which gave them
a lot of phenotypic choices. Take a moment right now and visit humboldtcsi.com. You'll
find an up-to-date menu of both feminized and regular lines, along with photos and descriptions.
That's humboldtcsi.com.
Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire. I'm your host, Shango Lose. And our
guest this week is cannabis researcher and educator Zoe Sigman.
So cannabis has a long history of being used not only to relieve the symptoms of Parkinson's,
but also rolling it back because of the cannabis plant's ability to cause neurogenesis, the
creation of new brain cells that produce dopamine. So before we talk about how cannabis can help
in the short term with symptoms abatement, how about we start with your explanation of
how cannabis can help combat Parkinson's long term by revitalizing the endocannabinoid system
and making more of these neurons that are so important?
Totally. And there's a couple of parts to that question. So as far as cannabis and neurogenesis,
this is an area that is of great interest to researchers. We start seeing how neurodegeneration
can be caused by things like neuroinflammation, oxidative stress. So these are like basically
little compounds that float around wreaking havoc. And cannabinoids have been shown to
combat those underlying causes of neurodegeneration. And so by being anti-inflammatory, by being
an antioxidant, cannabinoids are able to help preserve your brain's ability to create new
neurons, which is incredibly important as we grow and change. It's not like our brains
suddenly completely stop creating new neurons. It's part of being alive. But in people with
Parkinson's disease, you see that neurogenesis take a nosedive. And so if you can do anything
to prevent the underlying causes of neurodegeneration, you're doing something good. And so there've
been all these individual studies in rodents and in cell cultures that show that THC and
CBD and CBG can help retain neuronal health in a number of ways. So this is both preserving
or protecting from oxidative factors and also preserving things like synaptic plasticity.
Cells have life cycles. It's really important that they complete the entire life cycle.
And Parkinson's disease and other neurodegenerative diseases interrupt that life cycle in one
way or another. And cannabinoids and the endocannabinoid system are responsible for regulating those
life cycles. And so manipulating the endocannabinoid system can help reestablish or preserve some
of the ability for cells to have a more normal life cycle. The endocannabinoid system is
a promising therapeutic target in a number of ways for Parkinson's disease that has to
do with its relationship to the dopaminergic system, so the system that produces dopamine.
And this is sort of like a cutting edge of research. It's super interesting. It seems
like anandamide, which is one of the cannabinoids that our bodies produce, an endocannabinoid,
is vital in the cycle of creating dopamine. And it's integral in healthy adults and in
people who have Parkinson's disease, we see a number of impacts on the endocannabinoid
system depending on the stage of the disease. So in people who are sort of pre-symptomatic
before they have the motor issues associated with Parkinson's disease, we see a depression
of the endocannabinoid system. So these are lower levels of endocannabinoids and endocannabinoid
receptors, which makes researchers think like, huh, something is going on, potentially like
this system could be a target for therapy. And then as the disease progresses to the
intermediate and advanced stages, start to see those motor symptoms, you get an overexpression
of endocannabinoids and endocannabinoid receptors. And the thought is it could be a compensatory
reaction. Something has happened in the early stages of the disease that causes the endocannabinoid
system to underexpress, which allows things like oxidative factors and inflammatory factors
to proliferate in the brain. And that makes the disease progress more quickly. And then
as it progresses, the endocannabinoid system sort of like snaps back up and starts overexpressing
all of these things, which is actually kind of good because anandamide, it's been shown
that when you do things chemically that make anandamide stay around longer, you're also
making dopamine stay around longer. And so you kind of want more anandamide hanging out.
So you're preserving whatever dopamine your brain is still producing if you're a Parkinson's
patient. So it gets a little technical, but yeah, there are many reasons why the endocannabinoid
system is a target for therapeutic promise in Parkinson's. Cannabis and the endocannabinoid
system are obviously deeply interrelated. And what's interesting is in a lot of therapeutic
settings and in Parkinson's disease, there's evidence basically suggesting like the endocannabinoid
system is much larger than we currently accept it as being. So most people will characterize
the endocannabinoid system as consisting of these two receptors, CB1 and CB2, the endocannabinoids
our bodies produce and the enzymes that synthesize and break down those endocannabinoids. But
we see that plant cannabinoids and endocannabinoids interact with a bunch of different receptors
in our body. And these receptors could be very important in helping to mitigate some
of the effects of Parkinson's disease. And some of them are orphan receptors. Recently,
actually very recently, CBD was sort of in the Parkinsonian research news as being beneficial
because it interacted with an orphan receptor called GPR6. And it was an inverse agonist,
which means it makes the receptor do the opposite of what it usually does, which is good because
activating the receptor causes an increase in Parkinsonian symptoms. And CBD, by making
it do the opposite, caused a decrease in those symptoms. And so you start to see like very
specifically, like all of the effects that different cannabinoids could have on all these
different receptors that could be beneficial or not beneficial for Parkinson's disease.
All right. So let's unpack a little bit of this because it is complicated, but your explanation
is on point. But I also know that when I publish episodes that are about specific diseases,
or ailments, we attract new listeners who have come just for this one episode, right?
And so first thing I want to do is I want to address the endocannabinoid system. And
the way that I usually explain it to non-cannabis crowds is that the endocannabinoid system
is what keeps the human body in homeostasis. It keeps everything in balance. It's kind
of like the second grade teacher in a classroom. And when the second grade teacher is in the
classroom, the kids are generally well-behaved and doing what they're supposed to do. But
as the teacher goes outside of the room into the hallway, eventually one kid's going to
crack up and then another kid's going to crack up and then different kids crack up first.
And then eventually, though, it's chaotic. And that's kind of what happens with the
endocannabinoid system as well, where the endocannabinoid system, once it becomes weakened,
perhaps this particular body system starts working less well. And then another one is
less well. And so then we start getting oxidation or inflammation because our body is not doing
its general house cleaning that keeps the body in homeostasis. And so since these cannabinoids
that we're talking about, which naturally occur inside the human body as endogenous
cannabinoids, meaning produced inside the body, we turn to cannabis for phytocannabinoids
because we can get them from a plant and they do the same thing, which is signal. These
cannabinoids are being used to signal, to turn switches on and off in different parts
of the body, which is essentially doing this homeostasis work. So if we have a dearth of
these cannabinoids and our body is not producing them, the switches cannot get turned on and
off. And it's as if the second grade teacher is leaving the room and the kids start to
act up. And it is when this particular set of kids, if you will, that you have just described,
when it's these kids that stop working in the brain, the ones that cause Parkinson's
symptoms, this is why we want to treat Parkinson's with cannabis because we want to give the
body the communication tools to turn these switches on and off and essentially act up
act like the second grade teacher in the room. Do you like that? Do you buy that?
Yeah, I think it makes a lot of sense. This is how a lot of researchers look at finding
compounds to treat conditions. What's wrong with the cells? What can we do to make the
cells do what they normally do? And this is true of Parkinson's. The primary treatment
for Parkinson's disease is levodopa, which is a precursor to dopamine. And so basically
researchers were like, okay, people aren't producing enough dopamine. They get these
symptoms that are related to Parkinson's disease. This medicine can help brains produce
more dopamine. And it's very similar with cannabinoids. If the endocannabinoid system
is not functioning properly, not producing endocannabinoids or receptors, how do you
make it do that? Well, you introduce a compound that interacts directly with it. And what's
interesting about THC, which is the primary plant compound that interacts with CB1 and
CB2, the sort of best known receptors in the endocannabinoid system, is it could actually
jumpstart the endocannabinoid system if it is underperforming. This was a theory put
forward by Dr. McPartland and Guy, I don't know, five years ago, which is sort of like
there might be a clinical endocannabinoid deficiency that's responsible for a number
of conditions and taking THC could sort of snap everything into place. On the other side
of it, chronic use of THC downregulates the CB1 receptor, which doesn't really seem to
be much of an issue for chronic cannabis users. And this is completely theoretical at this
point. So please, this is just from me reading research, everyone listening. If Parkinson's
disease in its later stages is characterized by an overproduction of CB1 receptors, perhaps
finding a way to downregulate those receptors could help to restore some balance. I don't
know. There's a lot of... That's an interesting and novel approach I have not heard, but that's
an interesting idea. Yeah. You know, one of the things that I think would be worth teasing
out here a little bit is so far you and I have been talking kind of generally about this
basket of cannabinoids that we're going to take from the cannabis plant and somehow these
cannabinoids support this endocannabinoid system. But I think it's important to make
sure people understand that these various cannabinoids each have their own job, which
is one of the reasons why it's so important to take whole plant preparations. You don't
want to just take a cannabinoid isolate like pure CBD crystal or something like that because
that is not treating the whole endocannabinoid system, which is what our goal is. And you'll
know the specifics on these better than me, but to get us going on it, for example, THC
is an anti-inflammatory. CBD increases the number of signaling molecules to turn on and
off these switches. CBG, while it decreases the experience of neuromuscular pain, it also
offers patients the confidence to feel that they can overcome the stresses that their
bodies under. So, you know, each one of these cannabinoids, taking one on its own doesn't
get us where we want to go. It's the fact that all of these different cannabinoids,
including the ones that we have not even figured out exist yet, these different cannabinoids,
when they work together in concert, they are rehabbing our body's basic systems, bringing
them into homeostasis, which by definition will be decreasing the underlying lack of
dopamine that we call Parkinson's.
Yeah, totally. I mean, it's really important. It's really interesting to look at it, bringing
this back to Parkinson's, too, because we're still really figuring out what causes Parkinson's
disease. We're also still figuring out what we can do to make it better. And so sometimes
it's like you have to do three things at once to make the symptoms of Parkinson's
disease decrease. A good example of that is in a rodent model, they had a CB1 antagonist,
so something that blocked the effects of CB1, and they also had a pha inhibitor. So they
had a compound that basically made anandamide, the endocannabinoid that our body produces,
stay around for longer. So they blocked CB1, made anandamide stick around longer, and saw
a decrease in symptoms associated with Parkinson's disease in rodents. And it's like you're looking
at at least three different targets in that model, P-bar gamma, CB1, and then the pha
inhibition. And it was only when all of those things were together that you saw the results.
So it's just combining these things can be very, very powerful. And it's not what Western
medicine is used to doing. And on top of it, each one of those compounds have many molecular
targets in the body. It's not just THC will do this one thing because it interacts here.
It's like THC does lots of things because it interacts everywhere. So does CBD.
It's exciting.
Yeah, it's exciting, but it also really pisses off a lot of patients and their families when you're
trying to explain, right? Because Western medicine is so reductionist. People want to hear that
the disease is caused by A, and we take B, which undoes A, end of story, put it in a pill.
Yep, exactly.
And really, not only is that not really how nature or our bodies work, it is definitely not how
cannabis medicine works. And cannabis medicine is more about here is a broad range of
naturally occurring chemical compounds that our body normally makes, but it's not making.
And so we're going to get it from a plant. And once we put them in our body, dozens of little
chemical reactions happen, which when you put them together becomes a melody that decreases the
experience of disease and potentially the disease itself. And most people do not want to hear that
kind of an explanation.
Totally. Well, and I mean, we've all been trained to not accept that sort of explanation. We're
looking for like, you know, how often have you worked with someone who's like, oh, I'm having
trouble sleeping, but I don't want to feel high and I don't want to feel altered. And like, you know,
what's good for sleeping? What's good for pain? And it's kind of like, well, let's walk you through.
Like, you can't really tease apart symptom management, but based on cannabinoids alone, like
you're not necessarily going to get the same pain relieving qualities from CBD as you do from THC.
And if you take THC, it could be really good for pain, but you might feel high. Like it's not this
completely custom formed pharmaceutical. It's a plant. It's a plant that produces a lot of really
interesting compounds and it does a lot of things all at once. And sometimes that's good and
sometimes it's bad. Like in Parkinson's, so much of the research about THC has been incredibly
contradictory because CB1, while it's apparent that it plays a role, activating it has had like
very contradictory results. So activating CB1 can cause an increase in symptoms or a decrease in
symptoms, sort of depending on the model. Blocking CB1, same thing. It's obvious that manipulating CB1
has an impact on this disease, but we're not entirely sure what, and it has an impact on both the
disease and the side effects of the most common medication. So tremors are a hallmark of
Parkinson's disease and they're also a hallmark of the side effect of levodopa, which is this shaking,
involuntary muscle movement that develops in like 30 to 50% of people who take this medication. And so CB1
activation seems to help the shaking associated with taking levodopa, but it might not help the shaking
associated with the disease itself. So it gets really complicated.
It's really hard too when it's usually not the patient. It's usually somebody in the patient's family who will
send me an article, usually not a scientific paper, but just some article that they saw on the internet
talking about how THC in lab rat studies sometimes can increase some of the markers for Parkinson's
and they're all like, my family member should absolutely not be taking something that increases the markers.
And at the same time you say, you know, you got to tell them, you're like, okay, you are myopically looking at
this one study, which we don't really understand its meaning yet and it wasn't done in humans.
But perhaps that study is going to be outweighed by the fact that, you know, cannabinoids cause neurogenesis
and the creation of more dopamine creating neurons and the anti-inflammatory aspects of THC makes the body
feel better and the muscle relaxation aspects of it decrease the tremors and the CBG increases the patient's
confidence and decreases the neuromuscular pain. So you're like, okay, you know, plant medicines are complex
and you really need to look at how you are going to treat the human in a much more broad, holistic way.
And I always feel bad for these families because this is not the best time of their life to be learning detailed medicine
that they're totally unfamiliar with. And so you got to walk them through this stuff very slowly and lovingly
so that they can feel empowered to make decisions for themselves or their family members at the same time
that they are being incredibly frustrated.
Yep, exactly. Exactly. And, you know, it's totally understandable that they're frustrated. They want an easy solution.
And this isn't an easy solution. It's a really interesting one. It could be a very powerful one, but it's definitely not easy
and it's not straightforward. And it is asking a lot to sort of introduce people to this concept that it's going to take time
to figure out whether or not something works or not. And in general, I mean, in the human studies that have been conducted
on THC and CBD and people with Parkinson's, it's by and large, there have been no worsening of symptoms.
You know, at worst, usually it's like nothing happens. So if that's the worst case scenario, why not try it?
Because the best case scenario can be incredible. It could help cease some of the involuntary muscle movements.
It could make people happier. I mean, you know, quality of life is huge. And that's a stunning effect of
cannabinoid therapy sort of across the board. Even if people don't observe any sort of metaphysical manifestations
of cannabis therapy, they feel better. And that's really important.
Yeah, that's a very good point. And I also like your point that, you know, nothing may happen at all, but you're really only risking good.
You know, most of the time, well, not most of the time, every Parkinson's patient that I've ever, you know, become familiar with
and taught a dosing protocol to, they fall into one of three categories. Either category one, for whatever reason,
And they're frustrated by that. And that sucks. But you know, that's the nature of the beast. So sometimes that's basket one.
Basket two are people who are able to relieve their daily symptoms to some degree, and maybe all the way, which can be like a huge win.
But the Parkinson's continues to progress over time. And, you know, they're not able to turn the tide on the Parkinson's.
And then there's the third category, which is always delightful to run into where they're very responsive to cannabinoidopathic medicine.
Their daily symptoms decrease right away. And their treatment of the endocannabinoid system causes their body to start creating more neurons that create dopamine on the body's own.
And then the body's endocannabinoid system fires up, and the Parkinson's rolls back, and their test numbers become better.
And everybody is astonished for the miracle cure. And, you know, and then of course, we hope that everybody's in that category.
But really, I haven't come across a patient yet who experimented with cannabis, and it made them worse.
Except for, it's worth mentioning, people who start taking THC without following a specific dosing protocol can accidentally over-medicate themselves and get more high than they're comfortable with.
And that can be, you know, an hour or two of displeasure. Or, you know, more often than not, people who are the age that people generally get Parkinson's, I find that those people more go to sleep than have a paranoid experience.
But, you know, it is something worth mentioning.
It's also the balance. Like, because, you know, once you're high, one of the classic hallmarks of, you know, cannabis intoxication is a loss of the ability to balance in the same way.
And since people with Parkinson's already have, are sort of compromised in their ability to balance, that can be definitely…
I've experienced patients who got really scared because they lost their balance when they were high.
And so that's like, yeah, totally understandable. But again, it has to do with, you know, that's too much, you know? You could take less, definitely.
And I've run into actually many Parkinson's patients who are very sensitive to THC.
And it could have to do with the expression of CB1 in their cerebrospinal fluid.
They just have more targets for that THC to hit. And so maybe they're getting high faster.
It's funny. I had one patient that I was working with, and that was her primary complaint, was that when she would take some purple flower THC in the evening before bed as a tincture so that she could get a good night's sleep.
And then, you know, maybe two, two and a half hours, she would normally get up to use the restroom and the THC was in her body and she felt a little unstable going to the restroom.
And I told her, I said, you know, that is a thing for some people. And so, you know, let's decrease your dosage.
And she's like, uh-uh. And I said, oh. And she said, I just put a bar on the wall and a railing.
And she said, I added a railing between my bed and the bathroom and I hold onto that.
She says, because it's so important for her to take THC at night at that dosage so that she wakes up in the morning hungry.
And I'm all like, my gosh. See, this is next level patient self-care where they have learned how the cannabis medicine works for them uniquely.
And she was getting individualized medicine after she learned how to properly use the tincture for her.
And people just need to be patient through those first couple weeks of learning how to use the medicine best for you.
And then you can take the advice from your doctor or somebody like you or I and adapt it for you.
And now you've got like best practices for you. And that is the gold standard for using cannabis.
Totally. And it is. I mean, it's a lot of experimentation and it can take a little bit of time.
And, you know, having patience can really turn out well.
Yes. All right. So before we go to commercial, I want to talk about the use of cannabis to relieve short-term symptoms.
And we've already touched on a bunch of this, but generally up to now, we've been talking about fighting Parkinson's as the disease to try to get rid of it, to get rid of the underlying lack of dopamine issues.
But, you know, for many folks, the initial cessation or lessening of physical symptoms that gives them their first confirmation of hope in cannabis is just taking a little bit that a friend gives them.
And, you know, many of us have seen the Internet video of a Parkinson's patient with significant tremors being given just a tiny bit of cannabis oil on their tongue.
And then like within four or five minutes, those tremors are gone and they're chatting and, you know, their friends, they're crying and it's like powerful, you know, videos.
And, you know, there's plenty of these on YouTube that people can check out.
Seeing that happen in person with a patient, it really is breathtaking.
And so let's talk about like the short term. What symptoms have you seen abated with cannabis in the short term?
And when I say short term, I mean like you take some tincture, you know, consistently, let's say every three or four hours and the symptoms go away, you know, to some degree within a day and then more so day two.
So very, very swift response.
Totally. Tremors, pain, sleeplessness, appetite, all of those things I've seen return in Parkinson's patients.
And it really improves their quality of life.
Not only that, when patients are eating properly because they've got their hunger back and they're getting a proper night's sleep, it's helping the underlying systemic issues that are going on for them because none of us are going to thrive with crappy food and crappy sleep.
And also the quality of life shoots up remarkably.
Yeah, absolutely. Yeah.
The anxiety and depression is such a big issue for everyone who lives with chronic disease.
And so if you can manage that with cannabis, it's huge.
Yeah. So, okay.
So when we get back from the commercial, we're going to get right down to specific cannabis dosing protocols and methods.
But right now we're going to take our second short break and be right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is cannabis researcher and educator Zoe Sigman.
Growing cannabis in greenhouses is taking over the cannabis industry.
An efficient and effective blend of sunshine-grown terpene profiles and the controlled environment of indoor, greenhouses can be the best of both worlds.
For many greenhouse operators, though, building their greenhouse before gaining insight into how cannabis greenhouses differ from ornamental crops can be the start of a world of hurt.
Eric Branstad and his team at Greenhouse Advisory Group have the experience and technical know-how to help you avoid these pitfalls.
Eric Branstad has been helping cannabis growers find locations, design, build, and equip their greenhouses for over a decade,
first starting in Northern California, but expanding over the last five years to helping clients throughout the world.
He has an impeccable reputation for both depth of knowledge and kindness in communication.
You can hear Eric explain some of the challenges facing cannabis greenhouses and how to overcome them in episode number 41 of the Shaping Fire podcast.
No matter where I go in the country, good people with smart backgrounds still are making the mistake of building without knowing cannabis,
and it causes them to burn through capital and time fast.
Everyone has their own failure point.
For some, it is improper ventilation planning. For others, it is surface temperatures of the building or the plant's leaves or both.
Some folks that build their greenhouse from scratch make really basic errors like placement of the greenhouse on the property
or not understanding the natural environment where the greenhouse sits.
Some have even built a decent greenhouse but are inefficient in their deployment of light deprivation techniques and never really hit their target yields.
It's great when you learn from your mistakes, but it's even better when you learn from the mistakes of others.
When you bring on Greenhouse Advisory Group, you will learn from the mistakes of their many clients,
and you'll take advantage of the best practices developed by Eric Branstad over his years of working with clients just like you.
From location development to choosing a builder and tricking out your new greenhouse or retrofitting or rescuing your failing greenhouse, Eric will help you through it.
Visit GreenhouseAdvisoryGroup.com to learn more and connect with Eric and his team.
That's Greenhouse Advisory Group.
As a business owner, you are incredibly busy. In reality, you are responsible for everything your company does.
You've got so many responsibilities every single day that often you just don't have the time to really dig into your marketing as deeply as you'd like.
You know there's more that you could do to reach out to new customers and encourage loyalty in the customers you already have,
but you certainly don't have the time for it, and you're not ready to hire somebody full-time for that role either.
For you, I recommend blunt branding.
At blunt branding, Kirsten Nelson and her team are focused on improving your bottom line.
You know, most marketing firms are excited to make your logo, packaging, and website very pretty,
but they leave responsibility for improving your bottom line up to you.
They don't want that kind of responsibility, but that's pretty much the most important part of marketing, right?
Kirsten and her team will help you engage new customers, funnel them to your point of sale,
whether it be online or a storefront, and keep them coming back to you and telling their friends.
Now, if you happen to be a new cannabis company or an established company moving from medical to adult use in your state,
Kirsten especially can help you.
Not only is she well-versed in marketing and finance, but she totally gets cannabis,
whole plant medicine, terpenes, heritage farmers, and the particular needs of startups.
Check out what she did recently for Moon Time Medicinals and Humboldt at moontimemedicinals.com.
Kirsten and her team put together a whole brand package for them, built their website, and wrote their sales materials.
No doubt this is a paid commercial spot, but that does not mean they bought my opinion.
I've worked with blunt branding on five projects now for various of their clients,
and every single time they have done more than they have promised and over-delivered on results.
I love how they generate new revenue and focus on that as the goal instead of just making a pretty logo.
Similarly, every single friend I have referred them to has come back to thank me, and that just does not happen every day.
Grab a pen and paper, because the website address is coming up.
If you want someone to implement marketing programs that feed your bottom line, give blunt branding a call.
They will share proven techniques to increase your audience and generate sales
while using cutting-edge technology solutions in the background that make all of this easy, automatic, and trackable.
Go to shapingfire.com forward slash blunt branding to find out more.
You can also click the link in our newsletter.
Blunt branding, marketing that makes you money.
Cannabis is fun medicine, and we love to celebrate it.
Cannabis connects people and creates opportunities for new friendships.
At the Tok Shop, we create custom cannabis-themed jewelry, money clips, rolling trays, and home furnishings that you'll love.
And they also make great gifts, too.
I'm Ashley Villafranca, owner of the Tok Shop.
I came to cannabis as a patient seeking an alternative to the pharmaceuticals being pushed at me for chronic pain and fibromyalgia.
I realized that not only was cannabis a huge help in controlling my symptoms, but I found cannabis to be wonderfully social, too.
Cannabis makes friends.
So I took my love of jewelry design and blended it with my newfound passion for cannabis
and began hand-crafting bracelets, earrings, and friendship necklaces,
and then expanded to money clips, rolling trays, and other home furnishings,
all made in sterling silver, 14-karat gold, and aluminum, so there's something for everyone's budget.
I consider it all to be new-age cannabis fashion and cannabis couture.
I invite you to stop by my website at thetokshop.co.
At thetokshop.co, you'll find a wide array of attractive and fun cannabis items starting at only $10.
And if you're fancy, there are very fine luxury pieces as well.
And I'm always happy to do custom orders with your name or a particular theme.
Come check out my array of items hand-stamped with terpenes, cannabinoids, and other cannabis themes.
That's thetokshop.co. Thanks!
Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose, and our guest this week is cannabis researcher and educator, Zoe Sigman.
So here we are at the part of the show that a lot of people have been waiting for, I am sure.
We are going to go through specific dosing protocols to get you started with using cannabis to help treat your Parkinson's disease.
You know, historically, Parkinson's patients have been recommended to start with an air quotes 2 to 1
of 10 mg of CBD and 5 mg of THC every 3 to 4 hours, which is about the amount of time that the cannabinoids stay active in the bloodstream.
While a reasonable place to start, even this basic dosage protocol, though, has definitely has room for customization.
Especially if the patient has never tried cannabis before, I wouldn't want to start them out at 5 mg.
So Zoe, when you are consulting a new patient, where do you like to suggest that they start with their cannabis dosing?
Yeah, I generally suggest that they start lower than 5 mg, so 2.5 mg is a pretty good place to start.
Even then, I have had people with Parkinson's disease say that that was pretty significantly altering.
And so if people are nervous about the feeling of being high, start with 1 mg of THC.
I'd still say at least 10 mg of CBD. You can basically take as much CBD as you're comfortable with taking.
There's a lot of information about CBD for Parkinson's patients, clinical studies and observations that show dosages really up to 600 mg of CBD have been shown to have benefit in various aspects of the disease.
As far as the THC is concerned, we really want to avoid people feeling uncomfortable.
And so 2.5 mg, 1 mg if you're really nervous.
The first time you take cannabis medicine, we really hope that you don't feel anything because that means you can increase your dose.
And it also means that they, you know, there are very, very rare people.
I have had cannabis researchers suggest to me that maybe it's 1 in 10,000 people who have a severe reaction to THC where they'll take a very small amount of it, you know, of 2.5 mg and they will have an outside response to it and get really high for a few hours.
And it is incredibly rare. And I've only come across one person in all of my years talking with cannabis patients who is that sensitive.
But if it's you or if it's a family member or if you're a caregiver, you don't want to be the one that finds that rare patient.
And so if the patient does not have an experience with THC, starting at incredibly small, what regular cannabis patients would consider laughable, starting with those laughable amounts really is the best way to go.
And we'll talk more about method later, but this is one of the reasons why I really like tinctures for patients.
Because if you're smoking, you can't control your dosage at all. And if you're taking a concentrated oil, it's really hard to get low doses.
And if you're taking capsules, you're stuck with whatever's in that capsule.
But if you are taking a tincture, you can take a full dropper, you can take a half a dropper, or you can just take three little drops, whatever is convenient for you.
And that is how we would get to, as you suggested, a 2.5 milligram THC dosage.
Or if the person hasn't had any at all, maybe just give them 10 drops, which is going to make...
You'd have to do the math based on what it says on the bottle, right?
But let's just say that 10 drops is going to be one milligram perhaps.
Well, let's start there because you can always increase your dosage.
Once it's in your body, it's much harder coming back.
Right, exactly.
Doing a healthy self-titration of moving up until you find your sweet spot is really the way to go.
So Zoe, how do you recommend people find their sweet spot?
And how do they know when they've hit their sweet spot of the right amount of THC to take?
I mean, it varies from person to person.
I think that a really good metric that I've used for a long time is basically you want to feel relief of your symptoms without any unwanted side effects.
So that could mean different things for different people.
For some people, maybe you're looking for a lessening of pain, but you don't want to feel high.
And so you would continue to slowly titrate up to the place where maybe you've been feeling pain relief in some way for a little bit of time.
And then finally you hit a dose where you're like, oh, I feel high.
So move back down.
So it's always a really good idea to keep track of exactly how much of any cannabis medicine you're taking.
And then sort of recording what your experiences are on that medication or at that dosage level.
So that if you hit a point at which you're uncomfortable, you can back it down to the last step.
And it's good to point out that it isn't like if you add one more drop, you go from not feeling it to being like super stoned.
Right. You know, there's a progression of not feeling anything, not feeling anything.
Maybe you had a couple sips of wine amount and then maybe you had a glass amount and then, oh, maybe it would.
Maybe you actually had a martini intoxication and then, oh, maybe now you're kind of slapping at light switches or grasping at the doorknob and then you're really high.
Right. You know, like, so, so there's this range that so long as you start on the low end, you can tiptoe your way up.
And what I have found is that there are there are many, many Parkinson's patients who tell me that they don't want to feel high and they're afraid of feeling high.
And so they'll titrate in one milligram, two milligram, three milligram, and then somewhere around four milligram when they start to actually feel anything at all.
They're all like, oh, I really like the warm sensation that I get from it.
And then at five, you know, or six, they're all like they're like, oh, you know, I have I really enjoy this.
It really makes my TV much more interesting.
We had laughs last night. Right.
And like, you know, and generally speaking, unless somebody is, you know, very familiar with cannabis medicine, there really isn't any reason for a novice to really go much beyond five or six milligrams unless they are experienced.
And unless there is either they've got some kind of a resistance that they've built up over time or if they're dealing with a significant pain component and they want to take a lot more THC to deal with that.
But but, you know, if you're if you're just getting your legs under you and learning about using cannabis for your Parkinson's, you know, generally speaking, you don't really have much business going above five until you know what you're doing.
Because anywhere anywhere above five, you could have a surprised over medication experience.
Once you're a an established cannabis patient, though, you know, pretty much anything under 10 is going to be pretty safe.
And it's OK to play with even more than that, too.
It's it's absolutely sort of what you feel and if it's effective and, you know, people do build up THC.
And so if you're using it every day, you might need to increase your dose.
And if you go above 10, that's that's fine.
It's not scary.
It just depends on your body and what you need.
Yeah, I think that's the kicker. Right.
It's it's not scary.
So long as you have built up the experience to get to that point.
I mean, there's there's plenty of cannabis patients that are taking 100 milligrams of THC and an edible at once.
But, you know, it's not their first time taking cannabis.
Right. These are these are patients that have been that they have learned how cannabis works with their body and they learned how to do it and when to do it.
And they're very experienced.
But but for the vast majority of people who are coming to cannabis, everything, all of our work on THC is going to be done under five milligrams.
And, you know, generally speaking, as much CBD whole plant CBD as you can afford.
And it's it's it's a shame that it has to be that way, because, you know, the cheap stuff, the affordable CBD is is very often questionably made isolate from other countries and such,
which are not going to give you the benefits of entourage effect and and really working with the whole system of the body.
The whole plant preparations, they're more arduous to make and, you know, their prices generally reflect that.
But thankfully, they seem to be more effective or as effective at lower doses as CBD isolates at higher doses.
And so you can play around. I mean, I think that it is beneficial for almost everyone to take a pretty large amount of CBD at some point in their life, as long as you're not on medications that stress your liver and see what it's like.
And then sort of. Start to understand what different amounts of CBD can give you as far as benefits.
And it's, you know, in Parkinson's patients, there's been a ton of human observations about like CBD, improving quality of life, spasms, sleep quality, like all of these issues.
And it's like it's anywhere from 40 milligrams per day up to 600 milligrams per day.
And usually like a lot of the studies are at around 150 milligrams, which is kind of a lot when you're thinking about how CBD is usually sold, how much CBD is usually in a tincture bottle.
But it's just to say, like, if you can afford it, if you can find like a high quality preparation, go for it.
And also it's unfortunate, too, because so many of the products on the shelves in licensed stores, they will make an extraction of a THC plant and then they will spike it with CBD isolate so that they can get like huge CBD numbers.
But it's not really a whole CBD plant.
And so so often people, you know, I will often recommend that a, you know, it taking taking the cost off the table for a minute if they can afford it.
Go ahead and start with their 2.5 milligrams of THC, but plan on five milligrams a dosage to be your target.
And then if you can take 10 to 20 milligrams of whole plant CBD with that three to four times a day so that you end up with, you know, between 60 and 100 milligrams of whole plant CBD and, you know, 15 to 20 milligrams of THC spread out over the whole day, you're going to very likely see a significant benefit.
Right. Because you're giving you're giving a healthy dose consistently throughout the day and you are rebuilding your endocannabinoid system.
And so just because some of the studies that we've seen are, you know, 200 milligrams and up and day, many of these studies are still being done on rats and the the dosing does not always.
Well, actually, the CBD studies in Parkinson's, it's in humans. That's what's really impressive about Parkinson's disease. Like there's a bunch of preclinical stuff in rats, like really interesting stuff with CBD. But the dosages I was talking about, those are all based on humans.
All right. So then my follow up to that would have been since since you're more familiar with these studies, are they always using whole plant or are they using isolate?
Yeah, excellent question. That information is almost never provided.
Yeah. So.
It's probably isolate.
Yeah. And so so it's interesting, you know, people people will often get, you know, poor or no results on a few hundred milligrams of CBD isolate.
But you give that same patient 25 milligrams of whole plant and oh, my gosh, suddenly it works because the body knows how to deal with that instead of just giving it an isolate.
Quality questions. I think I feel like in CBD isolate in the world of CBD isolate, you're a little bit more susceptible to fraud.
Honestly, you know, people just mislabeling what's in the bottle and misrepresenting what's in the bottle.
And you do need to be careful about who you buy your products from. For that reason, no one's regulating this.
And so you need to trust the person who makes the oil, the person who grows the flower, the flower that goes into the oil.
It's a it's a bit more of an involved process than other medications, definitely.
And another place that patients get super frustrated. Right. Because, you know, there's so many places for for things to go wrong on the path from the plant being in the ground to being in your hands at home.
You know, there's there's potential pesticides that are being used at the grower step. And then you've got, you know, some extraction methods are better than other.
Like I'm a big fan of ethanol extraction because it really pulls out the whole plant. But if you can't get ethanol, you know, I would probably go and try some, you know, CO2 extraction, though that is not my personal preference.
I'd always go to the ethanol first. But then you can come all the way down to people using distillates and isolates and and spiking a THC cultivar.
And so most patients are not going to be sophisticated enough to be able to unravel that. And so then they go to a store and they ask a bud tender. And there are some epic bud tenders who, you know, it's more than a job for them.
They are doing their research at home and they're going to conventions and they're learning stuff. But that is the minority. And very often than not, the bud tender will give you what they have a lot of in stock or what other people tend to buy. Neither of those are based on medical efficacy, really.
Right, right. Which is it's just it's a problem. It's one of the main problems of cannabis medicine. You know, getting a consistent product that you can trust contains what you think it contains and making sure that that product works for you.
So I hit on it a little bit earlier about the different methods. And it's so common for me to come across patients who are first trying to get familiar with cannabis medicine. And so somebody gives them some joints to smoke. And certainly there are some ailments that smoking is very appropriate.
Depression, glaucoma, pain, loss of appetite, these types of things, certainly smoking a joint will work. But for Parkinson's, we really want to be in more control of the dosing and being able to fine tune it and know exactly how much we took and write it in our patient journal so that we can control our doses better over time.
So when folks are asking you what your preferred methods are for actually ingesting it, what do you like to tell them?
Usually sublingually. So sublingual administration involves holding a tincture or spray under your tongue for a minute to allow some of the active compounds, in this case cannabinoids, to pass through into your bloodstream more readily.
This is in contrast to just swallowing a tincture, which then needs to pass through your entire digestive system first. And you actually lose a lot of the potency of the cannabinoids while it's passing through your digestive system. And so the sublingual administration allows for a faster onset and maybe a little bit more better absorption of the cannabinoids.
I have also, and this is a bit controversial, but especially with people who are very concerned about cannabis use, I have suggested maybe starting or trying a transdermal patch first. Transdermal patches have a lot of issues in terms of consistency. People's skin are different thicknesses. It's difficult to tell really how bioavailable the compounds are.
But the benefit is you can put it on and feel the effects really quickly, within 15 minutes. And then if you don't like the effects, you can take it off and then the effects will go away just as quickly. And so it's sort of a good way to see if this is something that works for you. They are very expensive, so not like the best maybe long-term solution, which is where you can start to move into the land of sublingual administration.
And I'm still looking for a transdermal patch that I really like what's in it too, because transdermal preparation, that is a lot of heavy processing of the cannabinoids.
Totally.
I don't think that the transdermal technology has come into its own yet. I still think that as more investment money comes into the cannabis world and we get more crossover for the scientists that are really good at making them, we're going to see more of them come to the market. And who knows, that transdermal may actually already exist in one of the medical states, and I just haven't come across that product yet.
Yeah, yeah. I mean, transdermal technology has advanced a lot in the past several years and really outside of cannabis. It's a very interesting administration method for very small molecules like nicotine or estrogen for nicotine patches or birth control patches, which is where this sort of technology really evolved.
And so I have seen promising suggestions for the transdermal technologies. But yeah, you're right. We still have a lot to learn as far as that administration method. And tinctures just really are very easy as far as dosage control, which is awesome.
That said, Parkinson's is one of the diseases where maybe because of the length of time that cannabis has been used to treat Parkinson's, there have been some studies that have shown benefits from smoked cannabis, especially as far as mood and fatigue and pain.
And so if those are the symptoms that you're really looking to help mitigate in Parkinson's disease, smoking could be a really good option for you if you're open to it.
Actually, that's a really good point to make, too, because when I was kind of dissuading from the smoking aspect, I was thinking to get the cannabinoids unchanged into the body where it can cause neurogenesis of these dopamine creating neurons, right?
And so for specifically that, sure, a sublingual tincture or oil is going to be optimum. But you're right. The symptoms that come with Parkinson's can very well be treated with a joint and especially the quality of life aspect.
I know a lot of Parkinson's patients that they have found that their favorite part of their day is sitting on their porch and smoking a joint and just feeling not crappy for a while.
Totally. It's really important. I think another thing to note about anything that you ingest through your mouth is if you take your cannabinoid medication with fat, something fatty, a fatty meal, a fatty snack, your body will absorb those cannabinoids significantly better, like two to three times better.
And so it's always worth noting that if you are taking a tincture or an edible, eat a spoonful of peanut butter or ice cream or an avocado or whatever to really help your body absorb those cannabinoids.
And this is not an excuse to eat cracky calories either, right? I mean, we're talking about a very small amount of fat to the point that a lot of good capsules are made with a little bit of oil and a little bit of coconut as the fat in a capsule, and that's it.
So this is not the reason to take a little bit of cannabinoids and then a pint of Ben and Jerry's, right? That's not what we're saying here.
No. But if that's how you want your fat, maybe a couple spoonfuls.
Yeah, there you go. So another thing I think we should hit on before we wrap up our conversation is that while you and I have both seen huge successes for Parkinson's patients using cannabis, and the vast majority of patients that I've come across who have used cannabis have gotten some good results to the point that Parkinson's is kind of low-hanging fruit for cannabis.
It's one of the more easily accessible and treatable diseases with cannabis. It doesn't work for everybody. And it's important to be clear about that, that sometimes folks will take cannabis and they just won't see the changes that they want.
And they'll be like, I don't know why, but it doesn't work for me. And I don't have an explanation why it doesn't work for everybody. But to know that that is a possibility, and sometimes you also have to play around with the dosage.
And sometimes it's weird. Sometimes I suggest that people, after they've tried for a few weeks, they're like, it's just not working for me. I'm like, well, put the rest of the cannabis medicine you have aside and just take a break for a few weeks and then come back to it and approach it again. And sometimes it works the second time and sometimes it doesn't.
But I think that it's important for people to know that if they are going to give this a try, there are people that they don't get the benefit that they are looking for, while there are people who get incredible benefits.
So be gentle with yourself and take notes in your journal so you are sure you're taking enough. Because honestly, when people say that cannabis did not help their Parkinson's, it's almost always the fact that they misunderstood the dosage and they're taking such a small amount that it wouldn't help anybody.
Right, right. Yeah, totally. And I think a big and important part of the jobs that both you and I do at Helping Patients is modulating expectations and trying to help people approach cannabis medicine as realistically as possible. And it is really important.
I mean, many of the Parkinson's patients that I've worked with have not had benefit from cannabis therapy and that's okay. And they were okay with it. And part of the reason they were okay with it was walking into it knowing that it doesn't work for everyone. And there's a bunch of things that you can try and it's okay if it doesn't. It might. And that's where it's like, modulate expectations and keep hope high.
And usually, by the time that people get to cannabis, they've already tried everything else anyway.
Everything, yeah.
Yeah, totally.
Yeah.
Totally. And it has been in some of the human studies on Parkinson's disease, both THC and CBD have helped people get off of pharmaceutical painkillers, which is another huge benefit.
Yeah.
Like, even if it's not helping with Parkinson's directly, you know, helping you get off of opiates, which might not make you feel very good. I mean, like, I have only taken opiates once and it made me puke for days, you know. And it's like, but if that's your only option for pain relief, having another option is really nice. And so it's like, there's all these things to take into consideration when you're considering whether or not cannabis medicine is effective.
Yeah, absolutely. All right.
So let's wrap this up because, you know, patients and families and educators who are still with us in this show, they are probably just lit with interest at this point. And they're probably going to want to take this and learn more.
So before I ask you for where you would recommend people to go, I want to start by recommending your video that is on the Shaping Fire YouTube channel at youtube.com forward slash shango-los.
You just gave a great talk at Vimeo on Vashon Island about getting to know your endocannabinoid system. And it's great. You expand for about an hour what we did in about 10 minutes today. And not only is it playful and, you know, you're a humorous person, but also you use, you know, Star Wars metaphors to explain the endocannabinoid system. And so it makes it pretty delightful.
So folks can check that out on the Shaping Fire YouTube channel. Where else do you like to send people, Zoe, to learn more?
Yeah, Project CBD, which is the nonprofit I worked for for a year and a half. Before I worked there, I recommended people go there. And now after I work there, I recommend people go there. I think that's an incredible resource and will continue to be so. And I think that as far as putting out information that's accessible to people who are not necessarily scientists, it's still one of the best.
I'm going to go ahead and double down on your suggestion of ProjectCBD.org, which my listeners are certainly familiar with because it's the only web resource that I plug consistently because as far as I'm concerned, it is the only, you know, always trustworthy source for information that's been vetted.
Plus, you can get both kinds of articles. You can get articles that translate cannabis medicine and research into, you know, regular person vocabulary. But also there's a section on the site called conditions that you can click on. I think there's like 50 different conditions there, including Parkinson's.
And when you click on it, you will get links to all of the original scientific research on PubMed.gov. So if you're the kind of person where, you know, an article is not going to give you the level of specificity that you need to make health decisions for you and your family, going to the ProjectCBD.org site under conditions and clicking Parkinson's and getting access to the science firsthand, oh, you'll feel so much more satisfied.
With the with the path that you take, knowing that you have read the science yourself firsthand.
Oh, yeah, it's wonderful. And I mean, like, if people really want to get into it, pull up PubMed and search Parkinson's and cannabis. And PubMed is a database that coalesce all of the scientific research that's being done. I'm pretty sure on everything. But if you open it and search for a specific specific condition and cannabis, there's thousands of articles and it could be a really useful resource.
Fantastic. So Zoe, thank you so much for taking the time out of your schedule to hang out for a little bit and to share your vast experience on this topic. And and, you know, thank you for sharing your experience working with patients directly, because, you know, often there is a gap between the the scientific papers and how patients find relief.
And I appreciate you that you have got both bodies of information and your willingness to share it with us.
Thank you so much. Thanks for having me on, Shango.
If you want to find out more about Zoe and and keep up with her posts, you can find her on Instagram. And that's at Zoe underscore Sigmund. So that's Z-O-E underscore S-I-G-M-A-N.
And if you want to find out more about Zoe and her podcast, you can find it on the podcast wherever you download. Your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it, too. On the Shaping Fire website, you can also subscribe to the weekly newsletter for insights into the latest cannabis news and product reviews. On the Shaping Fire website, you will also find transcripts of today's podcast as well.
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts? Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how. Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire. I've been your host, Shango Lose.
