Everywhere you look, cannabis enthusiasts, patients, and consumers are turning away from
pesticides.
Most pesticides approved for growing food are not approved for use with cannabis, and
yet there they are in the market all the time.
These food crop pesticides may be tested as safe enough in very low doses when watered
down and outside in the rain on food products, but most have never been tested to be burned
and inhaled into the lungs like cannabis often is, and even more so when concentrated
like cannabis oil for dabbing.
Pesticides run the range of risk from untested for safety when growing cannabis all the way
to specifically toxic when used in cannabis.
The crazy thing is that some people, and even companies, still use them.
Many growers have grown accustomed to relying on chemical pesticides when they get spider
mites or russet mite or any one of the nasty bugs that attack cannabis crops.
Nearly nobody wants to use the sketchy pesticides, but some growers just don't have the experience
to rely solely on holistic horticulture practices.
And that's too bad, too, because people have been growing without chemical pesticides
for decades.
It's just that cannabis happens to be in a pocket of modern agriculture that has been
late to adopt.
The damn thing is that many states are not even testing regulated cannabis for pesticides.
They do it on an honor system, and that sure has not worked out well so far.
When the state does not test for pesticides, it pretty much makes a mockery of the legal
system's claim to provide a superior product to the black market.
In the legal market right now, you still have to know your grower, and that's the same
thing as unregulated medical was.
Consumers are beginning to get educated about pesticides and pesticide regulation, and are
starting to demand cannabis grown without pesticides and using other sustainable growing
methods like using living soil.
Cannabis growers with vision have seen this coming for a long time, and many growers are
already migrating away from pesticides and are leading the industry with really clean
cannabis products that consumers flock to.
Today we're going to talk about working with nature instead of against it.
We're going to talk about using beneficial insects as allies to eat the bugs that are
pests.
And there really is a difference.
Some bugs will defend your garden instead of destroy it.
And this is a well-established agricultural practice.
It's not new.
It's just new to cannabis, like so many other things now that cannabis is being normalized.
Today we're going to encourage you to use bugs, not drugs, to defend your cannabis garden.
If you enjoy hearing frank discussions that dive deep into cannabis health, business,
and technique, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
Every week you'll receive a new podcast episode delivered right to your inbox, along
with commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week and videos too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published.
Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode.
You are listening to Shaping Fire, and I'm your host, Shango Lose.
My guest today is Shane Young.
Shane founded Natural Enemies in 2014 to focus on encouraging the use of beneficial insects
in commercial cannabis.
Prior to that, Shane managed acres and acres of ornamental greenhouses for a greenhouse
growers magazine top 25 horticulture company.
After personally designing, transitioning, and running the company's successful beneficial
insects program, he chose to switch gears and bring his expertise to the cannabis industry
to help producers reduce residual pesticides in medical cannabis.
Welcome to the show, Shane.
Hey, Shango.
Thanks for having me on, man.
It's nice to connect again.
Yeah, totally.
It's great to have you back on.
So you know, for most growers familiar with using insects at all, they're used to using
ladybugs and praying mantis to fight pests in their garden.
What are the advantages to cannabis growers to move beyond using these traditional bugs
and using a wider range of beneficial insects like the commercial ornamental horticulture
industry does?
Yeah, no, good question.
When you talk about praying mantis and ladybugs, those are kind of generalist per se that,
you know, they'll feed on many different things that may be in your garden.
They may not be as aggressive as some of the species that we carry, though.
What we do at this stage is there's very specific predatory mites that are actually used for,
you know, the pest concerns that people have in their operations.
You know, the biggest thing that we go into is, you know, we start from the bottom, you
know, fungus net issues, root aphids in cannabis.
And then it goes into broad mite and russet mites are completely, you know, tearing companies
apart because of how difficult it is to figure out what you have because the magnification
is so small to see these pests in.
And then you still have the common ones, you know, two-spot spider mite, thrips, a lot
of different things.
So the species that we carry are very specific, and I guess they're kind of cultured specifically
for one job in mind, and that's, you know, what the pests are that people have.
So, to get right on, why wouldn't I want a more generalized insect to be working for
me instead of a specialist so that it just, you know, I can use one insect and it gets
rid of all my bugs, or is that just unrealistic?
No, it's a good question, and it makes sense.
You know, there's nothing wrong with having a generalist out there, you know.
It's helpful in a lot of different situations, I guess you'd say.
But when you have a specialist, you know, they have one main job, and that's to get
rid of the pests that you have that you're most concerned with, you know what I mean?
I mean, if you have a ladybug and praying mantis, they're not going to do a whole lot
for the microscopic mites that you're after.
So you want to use specific species that are geared towards your specific pest.
Eradication comes about, they clean things up a lot quicker, basically, rather than just
a generalist that's roaming around eating, basically.
Yeah, that makes sense.
Now, I know that you just mentioned a few of the pests that you deal with, but I want
to get a better picture of what kind of pests beneficial insects can be used against.
So you know, every grower pretty much has got their arch enemy, right?
The thing that they've been trying to get rid of on and off for, you know, some time.
You know, can you give me an idea?
Just name off some of the most common pests that you are working with so people get an
idea of, oh, all right, the one that I'm concerned about is on the list.
Yeah, no, it's good.
I mean, it's been fairly simple to compile this list of what people's concerns are.
Coming from traditional ag, it was very common pests in agriculture, versus when I come into
cannabis, it seems like one of the most common pests that we encounter, again, are from the
rooting system, you know, fungus gnats.
And the biggest thing about those is that the larval stages of those will feed on your
rooting system of your plants, which I believe is one of the most important part of your
plants.
I mean, obviously the flower on the back end is great, but you have to have healthy plants
moving into, you know, from mother to veg into your flower room.
So plant health is number one.
And fungus gnats, I don't think anybody should take lightly.
I mean, they spread diseases, they carry other pests with them, and they can spread to a
room and, you know, and can become a real issue if you don't take care of it.
The biggest thing about that is what I learned is the amount of watering, you know, that
the cannabis plant demand.
It amazed me because I had never cultured, you know, cannabis.
I'd never grown it myself.
And I just recall working with one of the 502 growers in Washington where I gave them
soil mites to take care of their fungus gnat issues.
And, you know, two weeks later, he called me back and told me I was full of shit, basically.
And I'm like, God, I'm like, the only reason I know these don't work is, you know, they
could freeze or they could drown out, basically.
So he's like, dude, he's like, you know how much water we're feeding our plants at this
point?
And, you know, when he told me a gallon of water for a three gallon bucket every two
days, possibly, my first thought was that we were pushing out reproduction, basically.
So we ran some trials.
We did additional applications to be effective with these things.
Fungus gnats, but you know, what's tearing people apart is root aphids as well.
Those are huge pests that people have problems with.
And, you know, I'm always honest with everybody.
They got to be one of the most difficult to get rid of, to eradicate.
Generally, when we work with people, we talk about sanitation first.
We talk about scoping their soil that they're bringing in, basically, you know, because
eggs can be in that soil.
So rather than trying to cure them of a situation with our product, we try to get to the root
of it on, you know, what can, what steps need to be taken first before we start using our
product moving forward.
And then it comes to rates at that stage to be effective.
So fungus gnats, root aphids in the soil is common, is very common on what we deal with.
Moving forward from there, like I had mentioned earlier, you know, two spot spider mite has
to be one of the most common pests, whether it's in cannabis or...
It's like the poster boy of bugs in cannabis.
It's fairly common.
I mean, everybody should know what a two spot spider mite looks like.
It's been around.
It's very visible by the eye.
It's easy to tell what it is.
So pest identification is simple, but yeah, it's been around a long time.
And from there, you know, thrips are very common as well in agricultural crops, regardless
of if it's cannabis or not.
But a couple of the most difficult as well has been broad mites and the hemp russet mite
as well.
And, you know, I spoke about two spot spider mites.
You can easily identify them because you can see them with your eye.
Depends on how old you are, Shango.
But you know, for the most part, you're going to need a scope.
You're going to need a high powered scope to take a look at these things.
From what we've gathered, 60 plus magnification is what's needed.
And you know, my old position as a plant health manager, I had the luxury of being 20 minutes
away from Oregon State University, had a research facility next to us, an extension
service.
And we were able to touch base on, you know, what they use in research for out in the field
and, you know, in their offices when they have things.
So that's where I started about 10 years ago, is using specific scopes and able to have
pest identification.
And what's actually coming up more that I really didn't focus very much on was foliar
aphids as well.
It's probably been about, in the last three and a half years, 1% of one of the pests that
we deal with.
But you know, this last year, it seems to be like there was a string of growers that
continually ran into it.
And I don't know if that is because of our reach at this point as a company on how many
people that we work with, where we are receiving more calls about it.
But it just seems like it's a growing pest concern with people as well.
Right on.
You know, my experience supports what you're saying about the once you've got roof aphids
or some kind of infestation in the substrate, that things can go to hell pretty quickly.
In my experience, once they're in the roots, the whole plant starts to get a little, you
know, sick and lackadaisical, which creates an opportunity for, you know, secondary pests.
So maybe we can consider the root pests to be like the gateway pest, which, you know,
breaks down the Trojan horse through the door and then these secondary pests come.
Do you find that happening at the commercial level as well?
Oh yeah.
No, you hit it right on the head, man.
I mean, like I spoke about previous, a healthy plant, you know, sanitation from the very
beginning.
These are the key step.
There's not one thing that you do in pest management that's going to take care of all
your problems.
It's a whole slew of things that go into it.
You know, sanitation, general plant health.
If you have a problem in your rooting system and you have a weak plant, basically it's
opening itself up to other issues concerning, you know, secondary.
Could be disease.
It could be additional pests because, you know, it's kind of like you and I, if we're
sick, we're not at our best, basically.
There's no way for us to fight off other things except we got to get through it.
So, you know, at the commercial scale for sure, man, I think people are still going
through, you know, even though I guess recreational use has, or cultivation has been around for,
you know, four to five years, maybe six.
I can't recall when it passed in Colorado, but, you know, all these people are still
figuring out how to grow at scale.
You know what I mean?
And I can't imagine it being an easy task at all when you're used to growing 20 plants
or 50 or whatever it may be.
You know, now you have to manage a team.
You don't just get to be with your plants every single day.
You're doing other things as well, even though you're head of cultivation or you're just
IPM management, whatever the company may be.
There's so many things that need to be done.
You know, we work with people that have 50,000 plants.
I mean, I can't imagine even doing that myself.
So yeah, definitely, you know, to answer your question in a roundabout way, plant health
is great.
And one of the key things in using an integrated approach to pest management with beneficial
insects, but yeah, you hit it right on the head.
When you're using beneficial insects to defend your garden, do you use that strategy at all?
Like some growers do where you leave a couple of sick plants around as sacrificial lambs
to attract the pests, or does that just create an environment for new and secondary and original
pests to come into your garden?
Well, the way that I have always been trained is if you have a weak plant, you want to get
it out of there.
You don't want to contaminate anything else in your room because it could bring it to
your plant, but also the surroundings of the plant that's sick, I guess you would say.
So just a training of mine has always been cleaning up dead leaves, dead twigs, things
like that.
If it's a sick plant, get it out of there.
Cut your losses sometimes, basically, and just get rid of it.
It may make things a lot easier for you moving forward, but for the most part, I would get
rid of it and then try to save it.
When you talk about sacrificial plants, you can use companion plants or beneficial plants,
basically, that can, and this may be outdoors, where it kind of invites beneficial insects
or the natural predatory insects from the outside into your garden outdoors.
Indoors it's a little bit more difficult.
When people are working in sealed rooms, it kind of doesn't really make sense indoors,
but it can be helpful in the pots.
It goes back to plant health quite a bit.
Right on.
So I think that the elephant in the room as far as adoption of beneficial insects always
seems to be growers who have relied so heavily on chemical pesticides for all these years
growing underground during the Prohibition era indoors that they've worked out their
tech, they know their schedule, and they depend on it to deliver.
And now, because of the huge pushback both by state regulators and by individual consumers
who don't want chemical pesticides sprayed on the plants, suddenly now a lot of these
traditional growers are being pushed to have to consider beneficial insects and give up
the bottles that they've wetted for all of these years.
What do you say to these growers that are clutching onto their chemical pesticides to
help move their heart, if you will, away from using what they've relied on, move them
towards what is a more holistic solution and working with nature?
How do you get them over the hump of belief?
It's a great question and it's obviously something that we deal with on a daily basis.
Not to defend people who want to use sprays in their garden because things have worked
well in the past, but to say something about that, a lot of people that's been their only
option, that's what they know.
That's how people are trained at this point.
Being at the company I was at previous to mine, we had a preventative spray program
for 28 years that was in place.
My reach or my jump into beneficial insects was the ineffectiveness of sprays.
It was worker safety that I was concerned about.
It was managing people around sprays and not growing plants anymore.
To answer your question, I guess I'd say education is first.
I'm not here to try to talk somebody into using our product.
I try to give them information on the benefits of using our product, the species that we
have and what we can do for you and with you, and how that transitions to health all around,
whether it's your plants or the consumers who use it on the back end as well.
Obviously past pesticide testing too.
That's a huge thing that is coming up in the industry that's going to be looked at,
well, not coming up, has been around for a while, that's continually looked at on a daily
basis.
I always tell, not just me, but my guys in the office, and I think I might have chosen
these words from you in the past in conversation, Shango, that it's even on our website, it's
choose beneficial insects.
I tell my guys, we're not here to hard sell people.
We're here to educate them first on what can be used for their specific pest concerns.
Then moving forward, let's hold their hand.
Any questions that people have that come up, whether you've been using biocontrols for
two years or 10, I still get calls from people that I set up a program four years ago that
have been a customer for a while that have a question that comes up.
A lot of it is experience.
I think the biggest hurdle, besides the skepticism of it actually being an effective pest management
tool, is the way that you have to see to believe type thing, like it actually works for you.
Hit that part even harder.
Give me an example or two of a big commercial grow that has made the transition.
A lot of folks, they're just afraid of jumping without a parachute or feeling like if they
start making the transition and it doesn't work out, that they're going to lose the whole
crop.
Give me a win success story here so people can picture how it works at the commercial
level.
In the second part of the show, we'll talk more about walking somebody through the transition.
Just jump to the end and give me an explanation of a win.
It's funny you bring that up.
Before the show, as we were speaking about a new hire of mine that I have, he was an
indoor tier three producer in Washington.
I didn't know this until he was actually working in my office.
I recall, I think it was December of last year when I started working with his company.
He said, Shane, what can we do for this?
Here's our problems.
I map out controls.
Usually what I tell people, if it was me, this is how I would approach it.
Here's the species to use.
Here's what's going to be aggressive.
Here's the days to order.
Here's how much to order.
This is what I think is going to be effective for you.
At that stage, he took it and ran with it.
Calls me a week later, asks a couple questions.
Within two months, he had a full transformation of, when I say chemicals, I use that term
loosely as just sprays.
We are using Omri listed organic sprays.
A lot of the times are oil based, which are immediate gratification.
It dissipates quickly.
Within a couple of months, we had fully transformed him over.
Fast forward into, I just hired him two months ago to represent me in Washington State.
He's like, when I called you a year ago, basically, he goes, I had to give my owner
a guarantee that your product was going to work.
He goes, you never guaranteed that your product was going to work.
You actually told me this isn't a guarantee, man.
This is what I think is going to be helpful.
Again, here's what I would use and what we would do.
He ran with it from there.
Again, in our previous conversation, it seems like a company needs to have that guy there
that is really interested in doing it.
If there's an owner that's pushing his head grower to do something else that is out of
their comfort level, then sometimes it's really difficult.
I try to lay things out up front towards people on where their roadblocks may come in at,
where we might have problems.
I don't just want to make a guarantee.
It starts out with education.
I think that's an easy story to tell, as this guy tells me as he works for me.
I basically told the owner that I was going to guarantee that this is going to work.
He goes, basically, crossing fingers, everything worked out real well, and it's no issues at
this point.
That was a great success story on my end, after hearing from him how he went behind
my back and made the guarantee on his own to his owner, not for me, basically.
Yeah, yeah.
I get that.
There are so many variables to it.
You really do need somebody on the inside who's going to be dedicated to learning a
little bit about it and paying attention to it.
While it is a comprehensive solution and works really effectively, it's not like a real simple
plug and play.
It isn't like a set it and forget it kind of thing, like most solutions for a big garden.
You have to massage it.
Let's go ahead and take our first short break and be right back.
You're listening to Shaping Fire, and my guest today is Shane Young, founder of Natural
Enemies Biocontrol.
As a listener of Shaping Fire, you already understand the importance of living soil when
growing cannabis.
When you have active microbe communities in your substrate, you go way beyond simply fertilizing
with nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium.
Having active microorganisms in your substrate supports vigorous plant growth throughout
the plant's root zone, making for higher yields and thriving flowers.
Mammoth pea is the first organically derived microbial inoculant that focuses on your plant's
nutrient cycling processes to release soil phosphorus and other micronutrients from their
bound forms, making them more available to the plant.
Increased levels of phosphorus will also keep inner nodes shorter and focus your plant's
energy on bud production.
Not only that, but the microbes act as a defense shield for the plant's rhizosphere by out-competing
potentially harmful pathogenic microbes.
Pretty cool, right?
Mammoth pea not only unlocks the nutrients in your soil, but it also helps protect your
plant from disease.
Mammoth pea's beneficial bacteria act like microbioreactors, continually producing enzymes
that release nutrients.
Mammoth pea was developed at a US university and has been extensively tested by Colorado
growers and independent laboratories.
Mammoth pea is proven to increase growth and enhance blooming.
One of the great things about supplementing with microorganisms is that they won't compete
with whatever fertilizer program you're already running.
Simply dose on top of your fertilizer schedule for increased benefits.
To learn more and to find out where you can buy mammoth pea near you, check out their
website at www.mammothmicrobes.com.
Partner with microorganisms to create beautiful, thriving cannabis.
Mammoth pea.
If you grow cannabis with sunshine, you can often feel limited by the seasonal cycle.
You want to grow sustainably and save money, so you use as little electricity as possible.
But if you haven't studied or implemented light deprivation techniques into your greenhouse,
you're leaving a lot of money on the table.
By incorporating light deprivation solutions into your greenhouse, you can often add two
or three additional growing cycles to your year.
When you pencil out the financial benefit of those additional cycles, you'll realize
why commercial-scale light deprivation technology is remaking the cannabis industry.
What used to be done by pulling tarps over hoop houses has been scaled up over the last
few years in such a way that it's become mechanized, easy, and affordable to even small-scale
commercial cannabis operations.
Forever Flowering Greenhouses is the industry leader in light deprivation, greenhouse design
and operation for the commercial cannabis industry.
Their team of greenhouse experts have been in the fields of Northern California for decades,
and they're now building greenhouses for commercial cannabis companies across the country.
If you are new to light dep and growing in greenhouses, I encourage you to go back to
Shaping Fire episode 13 with guest Eric Brandstad of Forever Flowering.
I talk with Eric about the importance of intelligent greenhouse management as well as the huge
financial benefit of incorporating light dep techniques.
There are so many aspects of utilizing a greenhouse that can go wrong.
From temperature and airflow to light dep and workflow, Forever Flowering will help
you produce crop after crop of well-cared for flowers.
They can help you retrofit your existing greenhouse with light dep and other modern systems at
a level that fits your budget.
If you're just starting out, Forever Flowering can help you plan and build your new greenhouse
so that you get started on the right foot.
The cannabis business has enough risks without trying to go it alone with your greenhouse.
Contact Forever Flowering Greenhouses to partner with folks who have an indisputable reputation
as knowledgeable and easy to work with.
Go to shapingfire.com forward slash FFG to find out more.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shane Golos.
And our guest this week is Shane Young, founder of Natural Enemies BioControl.
So during the first set of the show, we talked about the approach to beneficial insects and
what they are and why they can be a great teammate for defending your garden.
So now that we've kind of given everybody an idea of what beneficial insects are about,
let's talk about thinking through the story problem of introducing beneficial insects
to a garden.
When you go and you meet with a new client, I'm sure that you walk them through a first
couple of steps so you can figure out whether or not the garden is an appropriate target
for beneficial insects and to kind of think through what the transition will even look
like.
Will you walk all of us through that so that people can consider it for their own gardens?
Sure.
I mean, you know, most gardens are a proponent or can be used with beneficial insects.
A lot of it has to do with people's pest issues.
And as we spoke about, there are specific species that go after certain pests.
But you know, it seems like companies that culture beneficial insects, they've been around
for 30 plus years.
You know, it isn't anything new.
Again, it's a matter of education on showing a customer what can be used.
And it's not just what that we run into, but we also pride ourselves on giving people the
why.
You know what I mean?
I don't want people to come to us and be like, tell me what to do.
Give them something to do.
And they don't take any, you know, they don't take any steps on their own to make sure it's
working right.
But we want to provide them what to do.
We want to provide them why to do it.
And then we leave a lot of work on them as well.
Because it's not like what you said earlier.
It's not like you said it and forget about it.
You know, sprays isn't that way either.
There's a lot of monitoring that goes into it.
So you know, when we walk into a facility, it's obviously introductions, it's pest concerns,
it's you know, where do we start and what do we do?
And my biggest thing with people is or with companies is obviously, you know, we want
to start with your mother plants.
We want to start with your veg.
We don't want to start at the very end where you're having spider mite problems, you know,
seven weeks into flower.
And you know, what do I do at this point?
And I kind of leave them on their own for that to figure out.
You know, we can be helpful as well.
It depends on what state they're in and what they can and can't use basically.
So walking into a facility, it's again, just gathering information.
It's fact finding to see what their production is like, see what their protocol is, see what
they've been doing in the past and you know, why they're coming to us to really formulate
a plan to be helpful to these people.
And you know, when I talk about what sprays they've used in the past, there's some chemicals
that can be used that will actually deter predatory mites from even coming in and helping.
So it's upfront information.
It's when to use it, how to use it properly and where to begin.
I generally try to talk people into, regardless of how big a company is, you know, you obviously
want to jump in right away and take care of all their rooms, you know, that they have
problems with or are interested in.
But we actually try to start with people in their mother rooms.
And if they're sharing that with a veg as well, because if you start out clean and your
plant is healthy and you push that into flower, you know, chances are there shouldn't be too
many issues going into the last flowering stages there.
You need to have somebody that is again, interested in doing this.
You want somebody to take responsibility.
You want people to scout and monitor and tell us what they're seeing so that, you know,
we can make our comments on what they're seeing and why that is.
Basically, it's not always the what, it's always the why, you know, why they're seeing
this basically.
It's being informational to people.
It's interesting because what you're describing is a balance, right?
It's a, you want to continually course correct as you go so that you can keep this balance
where the plants are healthy and the beneficial insects are able to do their job and just
keep the population of the pests as low as possible.
I'm assuming that it never goes to zero.
It's about keeping them in control.
No, you touched on it and we have different types of customers and we have customers who
want zero tolerance and where I came from, zero tolerance was not feasible, but I kind
of disagree with that.
If you pay enough and you use enough species and predators a specific amount of time, you're
not going to have any issues.
We have a lot of companies that, you know, rather than using the scouting and monitoring
technique, they would rather pay more up front with us to have the specific program in place
where they don't have to worry about it.
That concerns me because regardless of how much you put in, there could always be something
else that may come up.
If you're using a species that's specific for thrips, maybe you're getting spider mites
or vice versa.
So it's real difficult.
I'm sorry.
It's not difficult.
People just have different ways of approaching pest management.
But when you do have a small pest population, that's what I tell people.
I'm smiling right now, Shango.
It's called pest management for a reason.
You know what I mean?
It's monitoring populations of good versus the bad.
Do I need to make a decision?
What product do I use?
Is it slow release sachet or is it active adults to help clean up my area quickly?
So again, that's where we come in to be helpful with people.
Sure.
That makes a lot of sense.
I've heard people poo-poo beneficial insects about how they're not 100%.
My thought is the people that I know who spray enough to feel like they're at 100%, they're
putting themselves at risk with other plant problems because they're spraying so much,
especially if they're spraying oils and they're moving towards bloom.
You used this example that I found very interesting.
You said you want to start with the mothers so you get them early because you don't want
to end up in week seven of bloom with spider mites.
And so what if you do find yourself at week seven with spider mites?
Can beneficial insects be used for an acute, hot problem now in bloom at the end?
Or is it too late at that point for beneficial insects to have helped and you really have
to start early in your cycle?
So one thing to comment on, Will, is when you say people poo-poo beneficial insects,
that's why I got into it is because my spray program wasn't as effective as I thought it
was.
You know what I mean?
There's two sides of the story, obviously.
You can spray and still have problems.
You can use beneficial insects and still have problems with it.
You know, I just want to comment on that off the bat.
That's what transitioned me on beneficial use is because the spray program I had put
in place actually, I was like, God, I just sprayed a couple days ago and I still have
mites over here.
I'm like, it doesn't make sense.
So what's a better way of dealing with things?
What's more effective?
What's healthy to the safety?
What's healthy and safe for employees that you have is looking for something else.
And again, it goes back to education on that.
I guess forward to your next question on, you know, what if you do find yourself in
bloom in week seven and you're cropping out in eight weeks, you know, it's difficult.
I'll be forward with it.
It's difficult to take care of a problem at that stage with beneficial insects because
you have a very limited pool of what you can pull to use that for.
A lot of the times the predatory mites are, they find it very difficult to crawl across,
you know, the flower and the trichomes.
You know, if you can imagine a tiny little insect trying to climb across, you know, hairy
plants and then you add the stickiness of the flower into it.
It's an unfriendly environment, number one.
So that comes before it gets to that stage.
That's where the monitoring and scouting comes in on.
You know, if we have any issues, let's take care of it before it really gets into this
stage at that point.
There's a couple of products that we do use that I call our flyers versus predatory mites
that are roaming around the canopy of your plant.
That can be helpful.
And again, all honesty, Shango, I tell people, Mike, you can use this.
Obviously there's no guarantees going into it and it's going to cost you a lot of money,
you know, to clean up a situation quickly because you need to understand that there's
also a life cycle of pests that you have.
And when you introduce a beneficial insect or a predatory bug, I guess you'd say, it's
not like they sit there and eat all day long until your pests are gone.
You know, they have a resting phase similar as we do.
They need to rest, then they need to reproduce and be able to eat again.
I mean, so yeah, I mean, it is difficult at that stage.
Yes, it can be done.
I tell people, you know, physical removal might be your best bet rather than buying
products from me.
Why don't you use one of your company employees?
You know, you can use a low powered vacuum cleaner.
You can physically remove them with, you know, paper cloth towels that are wet basically.
And then people laugh at me.
They're like, do you have any plants that we have problems with?
And I said, well, you know, this could have been prevented basically with different techniques
heading up to this.
You know what I mean?
Does that make sense?
Yeah, it does.
So it sounds like, so yeah, if you have an acute problem right before you harvest, yeah,
you can throw money and beneficials at it and labor and do your best for it.
But really, you know, you may want to just start with your mother plants and understand
that the cycle that you're in right now may not be as successful as you want, but start
on the next cycle and be forward looking.
You know, you said something else that I found really interesting.
One of the reasons why some people push against beneficials is because the trichomes are so
sticky and they're so effective at gumming up and grabbing insects that people say to
me, you know, why would I want to add more insects to my garden?
Because then my final product is going to have more dead captured insects in the trichomes.
So when people ask you about that, what do you say?
I try not to laugh, number one.
Well, no, man, you know, and again, and I hate to keep preaching the same words, but
education becomes first.
You know what I mean?
That's a lot of the times, like I said, it's an unfriendly environment for them where we
physically we've watched these things because the natural searching of a predatory mite
in general, you know, if it's on your plant or canopy is to go upwards, basically.
And I recall being in Portland here one time and a guy called me and he's like, hey, man,
you know what we're doing is not working.
And I want to make sure that we're doing it at the right stage.
And this is when I started out four years ago in cannabis.
And I remember walking over to his place and literally releasing a species called Persimilis,
excuse me, for two spot spider mite.
And instantly I basically just watched it climb up the stem and it gets to the flower
and it turns right back down.
And then it climbs right back up and goes down, up and down, up and down, up and down.
And basically it's going to die of exhaustion a lot quicker.
So when people are concerned about species or predatory mites getting stuck in their
flower, for the most part, they don't go there, I guess you'd say.
Because it's difficult for them and it's really hard for them to thrive and even move anywhere
in that stage.
If I can recall in the last four years doing this, of pictures of people sending predatory
mites like pictures of their flower to me, and they're like, hey man, this is stuck in
it and you know, what is it, number one, because they were new customers of mine.
And I'm like, God, that looks like a predatory mite.
And I've literally seen that picture one time, I guess you'd say in four years, where it's
stuck on a flower.
The only other time it wasn't a predatory mite.
It was actually a minute pirate bug and it's called Oreos.
And the Oreos was stuck directly in the flower.
My customer pulled the Oreos out and there was a spider mite in there that it was going
after basically.
It got kind of stuck in like a hole basically, going after it in the flower.
And I mean, other than that, I haven't received any responses from people that what you gave
me is not working out because it's ending up in our flower.
It's ending up in our buds.
Very little of that happens.
That makes sense.
It kind of just suggests it's a growing myth, right?
That yeah, we've all seen bugs, usually flying bugs in the trichomes, but you're saying,
yeah, that's not the bugs that we're adding.
So just because you've seen bugs caught in your trichomes doesn't mean that these are
the same beneficial insects that you're going to use to defend your garden.
Would that be a good way to say it?
Yeah, that's a good way to say it.
I mean, things that you see that are flying, I mean, the first thing that comes to mind
is fungus gnats.
When people have an outbreak of fungus gnats, that's one of the bigger problems.
Rather than them spreading disease through the rooting system, the adults that you have
are more of a nuisance in traditional ag, but in cannabis, they get stuck to the flower.
So it's like, it becomes a real pain in the ass for people to deal with and work around
at that stage.
So a lot of the times what we offer to people as product as well, we show them pictures
of them, images.
This is what it is because we don't want them to call us two weeks down the road and be
like, God, I got this other pest basically.
And they'll send us pictures and we're like, no, these guys are on your side.
This is what we talked about two weeks ago.
These are your teammates.
Stop killing them.
Here's a picture of it.
Yeah, be nice to those guys.
So again, we're trying to formulate as a company, be as helpful as possible to people.
Give them not as many options as possible, really limited options on what we've seen
to be most effective in certain situations.
That was one of the most difficult things for me when I started out biocontrol is I
felt like I learned a lot on my own, but I had to go through so many resources, a lot
of people, a lot of time in order to formulate what I thought was best for a situation.
Something could be different based off experience that you run into or other people.
So again, our company is focused on being helpful to people, offering them education
on what to do.
And when I tell them, I'm like, this is what we found to be most effective.
You can get information from somebody else and it may be different.
And that's great if it's helpful and effective to you, that's awesome.
We appreciate it.
You know what I mean?
But we just kind of speak from experiences, grower feedback and personal experiences through
here.
Yeah, right on.
That's one hell of a sales cycle.
You play this role of evangelist and these are more than customers.
You're actually getting into partnership with these people because it has to evolve over
months and there's a lot of education back and forth.
Yeah, I totally get that.
So let's get down to some more nitty gritty.
Once a grower has decided that they want to make the transition from spraying to using
beneficial insects, break it down for me what that looks like.
Is it as simple as day one comes and the spraying is done and that's the same day you release
the beneficials?
Or is there a clean up the plants period where the old pesticides have to volatilize and
go away before you can add the beneficials?
So what we start to do with people is speaking about what's already been spoken for is sanitation,
plant health.
We talk about those things.
But what we also talk about and that's changed I feel in cannabis and again this is my thoughts
on what's happening is when I came from traditional agriculture, my rates for beneficial insects
were based off per acre, whether it was 10, 20 or 30,000 predatory mites per acre.
This is the species I would use.
This is the reason on how they're going to help you basically.
When I started recommending cannabis it became difficult because that wasn't working very
well for me and I had to make changes at that point.
Again number one is not starting with your flower plant, it's starting from the very
beginning.
What that does is it eliminates a lot of cost with people.
It gives them a chance to work with things slowly and see it as it walks through from
mother plants to their cuttings to veg before it gets into flower.
It gives you three or four weeks to kind of have that education and balance and information
on what to use and how to use it.
When you talk about pesticide use, it's difficult to nail down specific, do this one, two, three
basically but what we do with people is we ask them again what's your procedure been
like in the past?
What's your pest concerns basically?
What's your pest level at this point?
If they can't answer some of these reasons you can only give them a broad answer I guess
you'd say.
Does the whole grow have to be sprayed down and cleaned because I'm assuming that if they're
spraying there'll be residual pesticides on surfaces and those would injure the newly
introduced beneficial insects, right?
I wouldn't encourage people to spray everything down to clean things up.
I personally think that has been used differently by each company you work with, each person
that you may work with at this stage.
I prefer to have there be a pest level of some stage so that there's a food source for
the predatory mites to start working against depending on what your pest is rather than
spraying something down to clean it up.
I mean yes you can approach it that way as well but then you need to wait X amount of
days depending on the product that you use because there are residuals that are left
over but again you know what's nice is seeing what states are allowing cultivators to use
at this stage because a lot of it is oil based which dissipates quickly which doesn't
leave a whole lot of residues.
You know what I used to do about eight years ago starting to use it is I ran trials on
what I sprayed and then spraying my plants with water just for hydration.
You know what I mean?
That helps wash residuals off so maybe you can take that from seven days down to five
days where we can apply the beneficial insects.
Specific products is kind of what it's all about Shango because there are things that
you can spray a day before and then release beneficial insects the next day or two days
later.
It may not be an insecticide per se, maybe a bio insecticide which are a lot of active
funguses that people can use that do not leave residuals that don't have any re-entry hours
after you spray them or it's limited to like four hours.
So it really depends on what they've been doing prior and kind of where their focus
is on where they want to go and if they really want to try this thing, if they really want
to walk the walk then we ask very specific questions before we start working with somebody.
The most difficult thing is when people call in and say, hey can you send me some predatory
mites?
I'm like yeah we can, help me out here.
So what happened about three years ago is we started creating what I call a new customer
inquiry which people can fill out online and that basically gives us 90% of the information
that we need to be helpful with you and to show you how to walk from step one to step
two to step three.
If you're using Avid or Orthene or using something like this, residuals may be longer than if
you're, hey man I just used Botanigard on my product which is an active fungus.
We could probably start the very next day or two days later.
So the new customer inquiry really gives us information needed to be helpful to people
on when they can start, what they can use and kind of what to expect moving forward
in a program.
Yeah, right on.
As we've gone on, I know that it pains you to go back again and again to the idea of
the education aspect and that's how primary that is.
But the more you talk, the more I get it that each grow really is its own environment and
what they're spraying is a variable and there's just so many variables that is not one solution
fits for everybody.
So really it's about getting in and participating with them to figure out what their program
is going to be and then doing the transition.
So I want to talk more about the transition and especially about application rates, but
we need to take our second break.
So we're going to take that break and be right back.
You're listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is Shane Young, founder of Natural Enemies
BioControl.
As cannabis normalization sweeps the country, knowledge of how to grow cannabis naturally
and without synthetic inputs has become more and more available.
In fact, probiotic growers are experiencing large yields and exceptional terpene profiles
without using chemicals banned in their state.
Move away from the risks inherent to chemical nutrients and instead invest in your soil.
Use your soil again and again, reducing costs and improving the vitality of your soil with
each cycle.
Keep It Simple Organics has been a leader in aerated compost teas for years and now
provide premium soils and nutrients to the cannabis industry.
They offer a full line of all natural inputs for building your soil, feeding microbe communities
and brewing nutrient and compost teas.
They can even help you test your soil to spot deficiencies that may be holding you back.
Check out their website at KISOrganics.com.
Enter the word SHANGO into the form at checkout to receive 10% off your first order.
Stop pouring bottled nutrients on your soil only to throw it out each cycle.
Start building living soil that will serve you for years to come.
Visit KISOrganics.com and grow healthy, thriving cannabis.
Now that the health benefits of terpenes have become well known in the cannabis industry,
people everywhere are looking for the purest terpenes without adulterants.
The problem with most terpene providers is that they are not sourced naturally and instead
are made as a byproduct of refining petroleum.
And that's so sketchy.
The terpenes sold by True Terpenes are entirely different.
They are certified organic, non-GMO and food grade.
That means they are extracted from real plant sources.
There are no solvents of any kind used during the extraction process.
They are distilled only with steam.
That's right, only steam.
In fact, terpenes from True Terpenes are so pure that you can eat them.
Not only that, but you can stack them with better results too.
What I mean is, other companies' terpenes have got a few percent of impurities and when
you stack those terpenes to make a blend, you're adding a variety of impurities that
degrade your final product.
True Terpenes also has strain-specific terpenes for a wide range of cannabis strains like
Durban Poison, Sunset Sherbet, and Granddaddy Purple.
True Terpenes has robust and supportive customer service so your questions will get answered
fast and efficiently.
If you've shopped for terpenes before, you know how rare that is.
So whether you want to cup your hands to smell some beta-caryophyllene to calm down after
getting too high, or if you want to dab some alpha-pinene so your lungs feel fabulous and
your mind feels liberated, True Terpenes will provide you with a truly natural experience.
If you are a cannabis product developer, these are the terpenes you want to add to your oil
or edible or capsule or whatever.
True Terpenes are simply the best your money can buy.
Don't try and make a premium product with substandard terps.
Choose True Terpenes for a top-shelf experience.
Go to shapingfire.com forward slash true terpenes to find out more or click on the link in this
week's newsletter.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shane Golos.
Our guest this week is Shane Young, founder of Natural Enemies Biocontrol.
So in this last section, I want to talk about what it's actually like to do the application
process.
How do you go about applying the beneficial insects to the plants?
It's a great question because the problem that people or growers have been seeing is
that information on the packaging, on the liter containers or whatever you're using
for application, some of them say spread these all over your flower.
And that's not what you want to do in cannabis at this stage because you're going to be spending
a lot of time trying to clean that up if you can eventually clean it all up basically.
So that's very difficult for people to do it.
So again, it comes with an initial conversation possibly, people reaching out on how do I
apply this.
But for the most part, we try to write it out for people.
We try to make things simple on, obviously the label is going to say this.
I'm sorry to say, you're not going to follow that.
You can't do that.
That's not the way of doing it.
So it's difficult.
It could come up in conversation, it could come up by email, whatever it may be.
Can you give an example?
Can you get real specific there, Shane?
What kind of application example would you see on the labels that you would educate somebody
through?
I try to make sure that the listeners have got real actionable results.
So give us an example of why cannabis is different from the other crops that their beneficial
product may be labeled for.
Sure.
No, just what I touched on.
Again, one of the labels says to spread the product over your flower.
And it could be my first thought right now is that's specifically for a thrips predator,
whether you're using Swirsky or Koukoumaris of species for it, you know, because they
want to say to spread it across the flower because that's generally where the thrips
are going to congregate basically.
So one thing that you could do is I feel that it's an old method of control, but still an
effective method is you can use it to apply to the base or the stock of your plant.
Basically, you can create piles towards the stem where they'll crawl up into your plant
that way.
A secondary way that you can do it is what we call in the office, we call them hanging
baskets.
And what's funny is I used to try to figure out a more effective way of application for
product as well a long time ago.
So I actually used to buy like Dixie cups or solo cups and I would poke holes in them
and use like, not wire hangers, but like ornament hangers to hang out of my plants.
And I would dump product into these cups and then I would hang them on the plant because
the active adults are going to crawl up the plant, up the cup into your plant basically.
And then just years ago, biocontrol companies started creating what they call hanging baskets
where they are already pre-made for you to do an application for.
So what's difficult is when somebody is like, yeah, I followed the directions and this is
what happened.
Sometimes you can't give that information out on the application.
So we actually try to provide like an application sheet for specific species when we work with
people as well so that when they're choosing to do something, again, we want them to be
effective.
So we want to give them the most information to be effective, which is how to do the application
at that stage.
So that's really what comes to mind on my side when you ask that.
Does the choice between using, say for example, a hanging basket or a sachet, do those different
application techniques depend on the type of beneficial that you're adding or the size
of the garden or just simply the preference of the grower?
It actually touches on a lot of different things.
Preference of the grower, yes.
There's a couple different ways of doing an application.
There's one thing called the slow release sachet, which is an actual breeding bag is
what I call it, that slowly release predatory mites into the canopy of your plant.
And what I stress to people is these are truly used as a preventative maintenance, you know
what I mean?
If you have a problem, you want to use active adults.
If you have a problem, if you have a pest issue, you don't want to use slow release
sachets on that plant.
Yes, it will be helpful in the long run.
So you can do the sachets and the adults in the same application, basically, that gives
you more immediate control.
And then it gives you long lasting control with a sachet that you've already applied
to it.
Different species are available in different forms of application.
For the most part, they come in slow release sachets.
They come in active adults, which I call the bulk liter containers or five liter bags
can be used for commercial growers that use more product.
There's flyers that can just be released that fly, that can kind of encompass your growing
space on their own, where you don't have to apply them to every single plant or every
third plant by any means.
So it just depends on the predator that you use.
I know that a lot of the breeders of these beneficial insects, they sell them with application
rates that were devised for ornamental plants and cannabis is a very unique lady.
What have you seen as far as any difference in application rates for cannabis versus boring
industry standard plants?
Yeah, it's a great question.
I don't say unfortunate that I can't change my information online because I get that information
direct from the suppliers who actually culture the product.
But when you touch on it, when I started recommending in cannabis agricultural rates, I would calculate
out by square footage.
You know what I mean?
It's kind of what I used to do per acre, basically calculate out in square footage what can be
used.
And I just remember selling my first liter of soil mites for fungus net control and God,
the guy had I don't know how many plants in his thousand square foot room.
And I'm like, yeah, you know, one liter of soil mites per 1000 square feet.
You know, that's the rate I've used for the last eight years.
It knocked the shit out of your fungus nets.
And again, you know, two weeks later, he's like, no, it's not working.
And that's when I got into well, why isn't it working?
You know what I mean?
And the amount of water that's being applied to the plant because not just for the hell
of it, you know, it's because it demands it so much.
It grows like a weed.
It needs that water and basically for growth at that stage.
So just starting from that small arena of more soil mites more often, we had to get
some in every single pot.
So I ran trials for I don't know if it was four months or so, you know, offering products,
splitting product with people who are interested in using it on kind of formulated a plan for
them moving forward on how to be effective using this product and is it going to be cost
effective on our end, you know, but when you talk about cost effectiveness, you take out
labor of spraying, you take out the health of the plant, basically, you take out any
chance of getting knocked for a pesticide test, all these different things.
So I guess looking over it and talking to the guys in the office here that we deal with,
there's very few growers that we have that use traditional egg rates and are very effective
with it.
There's very few and far between.
So for the most part, you can times the rates by five just to give you a generalization.
But it also depends on what you're doing on the back end, you know, you made the comment
about hit it or apply it and leave it, you know, earlier on in the conversation.
And you know, you can't do that with anything.
You can't do that if you have a spray program because you still need to monitor.
There still may be a pest issue or a pest presence at that stage where if you don't
take care of it right away, it's going to, you know, quickly become larger and larger
as you move on.
So, you know, I hope that it kind of helps answer the question that you were looking
for.
Yeah, yeah, it does.
Do you find that based on bio regions, for example, where the plants are being grown
in the US that you either need to choose different beneficial insects or the application rate
changes?
Because I assume that if you're doing applications, you know, in the cold Northwest, it's going
to be a lot different in the hella hot Arizona.
Yeah, no, great question.
And a lot of it has to do with one, you know, choosing the correct species for the pests
that you're after.
You know, number two, it does have to do with the heat and also the humidity of a region
where you're at.
You know, a lot of times lower humidities are going to dry out the eggs of the predatory
mites, which causes problems or which delays reproduction basically.
It takes longer to do that.
So, you know, I've been approached by a lot of people who, you know, they're running 10,
15% humidity throughout the summer.
And my comment is no, these are not documented to do that.
We may need to do, again, applications more often to be effective.
We may switch it up rather than using these sachets, which are probably going to release
slowly in your crop and not a little bit more quickly at a place that has 50% humidity or
60, you know what I mean?
Which is fairly ideal for reproduction.
And I just go into, again, I'll honestly, I'm like, hey man, you know, this was three
years ago.
I had a guy that's like, hey, your sachet has lasted five weeks.
We had 12% humidity for three months.
I'm like, I don't understand how that was possible.
But showing them how to open the packages up, looking to see if there's reproduction,
finding them on their plants and what they're doing, I'm like, good.
You know, so it's nice to be able to push the boundaries of what they're documented
to do specifically and tell people it's not documented for it.
Generally, we don't recommend to do it, but this is what I would probably choose in your
specific area.
It's built a little bit better for the lower humidities.
It's able to reproduce a little bit quicker than another species that we have, you know,
and we kind of go from there.
And that's where the feedback comes in, Shango.
That's where we can't just give somebody a program.
They walk away and use it and never hear from them again because there's always feedback
that we can use from everybody that we can help other growers with on.
If this didn't work, well, you know, we had another guy that did this, you know what I
mean?
And it was very successful for them.
But a lot of it has to do with, you know, again, from the very beginning is, you know,
sanitation, plant health, monitoring, scouting, being able to know what pests are what.
So pest identification is key that we're using the correct species from the very beginning
or we're not going to be very successful.
Right on, I get that.
Can beneficial insects be used in outdoor crops?
Yeah, we use it many times.
Yeah, all last year.
All last year.
Indoors is great.
Outdoors, yes, for sure.
There's no problems using it.
Do the beneficial insects walk away from the cannabis plants?
I mean, I always figured that at least with an indoor program, they were, you know, they
were penned.
They were captured inside of the greenhouse or the building or whatever.
But if you go outdoors, you know, they could just walk away.
Yeah, so it depends on what you're using, obviously.
You know, there's flyers that make me nervous on if you release them, they're just going
to fly away.
But you can also create attractant plants to keep them near, basically.
That gives them an additional food source if they don't find it on the plants that you
have.
As you talk about them walking away, it becomes like an application technique as well.
You know, if you're applying them directly onto your plant, there's so much canopy space
that these guys need to move.
You know how small they are, you know, in order to walk around a plant, it's going to
take them quite a while to do so.
For the most part, they're not going to crawl down your stem and out into the dirt and go
somewhere else.
In our experience, they generally stay on your plant.
They're looking for food, you know, they're predators.
Versus the pests that you guys have, you know, a lot of the times they're slow because all
they're doing is sitting there feeding on your plant, you know what I mean?
Versus what we offer people, they're looking for food.
Generally they're going to be a little bit faster, basically, and they need to find food
in order to maintain.
Right on.
Do you have to use higher application rates outdoors?
Yeah, again, you know, it's a general question, but it depends on the region that you're in,
depends on the humidity that you are.
But again, it depends on plant counts as well and what the sizes of your canopy are.
We find it, you know, a six by six plant is treated differently than a one by one plant.
There's a lot more canopy space that needs to be covered.
So yes, I would say so.
Yeah.
One of the things that I find interesting is that, you know, these beneficial insects
and how they do what they do, it's not new.
It is something that the horticulture industry has been using for decades.
And what you are bringing to the table is being the, you know, being the first person
in the industry to start transitioning and learning the ins and the outs of applying
what's been used in horticulture for decades to specifically what's going on in cannabis.
So as a corollary to that, I have this question.
Are there any new beneficial insects that you see coming online in the future?
Is there like, you know, the new one, the new model, or does that not really happen
much in the beneficial insect scene where you've got your set of specific and generalized
beneficials and all of the novelness and innovation is happening on application and education?
No, it's a good question.
And for the most part, as far as I know, and it could be false, but I don't think it
is, a lot of the things that are cultured and supplied in the United States, they have
to be native to our specific area in order for us to offer them to other people.
So I think pretty much what is here now is what's going to be around for a while.
There are companies that offer different species or additional species to do different things,
basically, and each company has their own, you know, they have their own choices of what
they want to culture on their own.
But you know, when you start working with us, again, I think like I said in our previous
conversation is that we try to take a lot of that information out for people and just
give you what we feel is the most effective, which limits, you know, to keep it simple,
I guess you'd say with a lot of people, is we try to simplify our responses towards people.
Yeah, I think what it is is it needs to be native in order for it to be sold and supplied
here in the United States.
Yeah, right on.
So, you know, right here before we wrap up, I want to give you, you know, a platform to
talk specifically to the commercial, you know, master growers who are listening and are interested
in moving away from the synthetics or the sprays in any way and move over, but they
still have got concerns about, you know, how much risk there will be during the transition
and also would they, you know, decrease in yields.
So, you know, why don't you just address that on our way out here?
What do you say to the commercial grower who wants to go in this direction, but they just
they need it put in the right terms for them?
It's a great question.
And I think, you know, throughout our conversation today, I've touched on a lot of points for
people to feel a little bit more comfortable using this.
As you know, you touched on about even how beneficial insects have been cultured for
decades.
You know what I mean?
When I started doing using them 10 years ago, you know, I remember going to a class and
there was three people in the class and the next year there was 10 and then there was
50 and then there's 100.
Then there's only standing room as the years go on and people become educated on what you
can use them for.
I think that's really going to steer a lot of people in the right direction.
A lot of the pesticide testing is going to steer people to use beneficial insects first.
And if they need to use chemicals by any means, they, you know, in order to make them a little
bit more comfortable, they might reach for that as well.
But I think what you're going to see is higher flower content on the back end.
You know, you're not going to be spraying your plants with anything, which is going
to which is going to cause no stress, which allows them to grow to their natural capacity.
That's what I saw when I ran trials 10 years ago is 30% growth increase on plants that
I just use beneficial insects for, you know, aphids, spider mites, fungus nets versus a
traditional program of horticultural oils that I use on a different plant, basically
30% increase.
It's amazing to see.
And once you see, you start believing and then you start and then you start seeking
more information on God, how can I do this even better?
We get a lot of reports from a lot of different people telling us about how healthy their
plants are these days and how much more flower they're receiving.
And, you know, it's not everybody, but there are people that have really taken the time
to do that and to seek the information to be effective for it.
And I don't want to push anybody to do it if they don't want to.
Again, you know, our website says choose beneficial insects.
If you're interested, we're more than happy to help and to give you the specific
information that you need and to help you, you know, from day one moving forward, because
obviously we want to work with you five years down the road.
We don't want to just talk with you one day, give you a product that doesn't work
and you'll be done with it.
Even if somebody doesn't order a product for a while, we still call and follow up to
see how things are going, what happened, what can we do different, you know what I mean?
So there is, it can be time consuming for some people to try to learn how to do this.
But if you have somebody at your company that's willing to grasp this and really go
into it and seek information and do it, then that's going to be your best bet at this stage.
Right on.
Well, Shane, thank you so much for being an educator about this.
The show, the Shaping Fires show, we are very clearly probiotic, living soil, working with
nature and not down with synthetic inputs.
We don't take synthetic input advertising money.
And so it's very refreshing for me to talk about a topic where we can get garden pests
under control by working with nature instead of trying to dominate nature.
I agree.
I appreciate you reaching out, Shane.
It's nice talking with you.
Right on.
Thanks for being on the show, Shane.
I really appreciate your time.
Okay.
Take care, man.
See ya.
If you'd like to find out more about Shane Young, Beneficial Insects, and Natural Enemies,
you can visit their website at naturalenemiesbiocontrol.com.
So Natural Enemies really only serves the commercial industry, but their website is
still a fantastic place to get educated at naturalenemiesbiocontrol.com.
And if you'd like to hear more from Shane Young, you can check out my YouTube channel
at forward slash shango los to check out Shane Young speaking on Vashon Island.
You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the show at
shapingfire.com and on Apple iTunes, Stitcher, and Google Play.
If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it if you'd leave a positive review of the
podcast wherever you download.
Your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too.
On the Shaping Fire website, you can also subscribe to the weekly newsletter for insights
into the latest cannabis news and product reviews.
On the Shaping Fire website, you will also find transcripts of today's podcast as well.
For information on me and where I will be speaking, you can check out shangolos.com.
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire, I've been your host, Shango Los.
