Oral history has been important to humans forever.
Speaking our histories to each other is how we learn about nature, each other, and where
we all come from.
It's an essential part of being human and passing our history on to the next generation.
Now in the internet age, oral history takes place less around a campfire and instead happens
more often with the aid of technology.
On today's episode, we're going to take part in that oral tradition and share the
story of how high CBD strains began in America.
Like lightning striking twice in the same place, in the early 2000s, one line of genetics
bred by legendary cannabis breeder Lawrence Ringo was showing high percentages of cannabidiol.
At the same time, a strain startled everybody by testing high in CBD at the Spanibus competition
in Spain.
These two sets of genetics soon came together in Northern California and American CBD was
born.
If you enjoy hearing frank discussions that dive deep into cannabis health, business,
and technique, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
Every week you'll receive a new podcast episode delivered right to your inbox, along
with commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week.
Social media sites are becoming very unreliable in showing folks every post they want to see,
so sign up for the Shaping Fire newsletter to make sure you don't miss an episode.
We really don't want our relationship with you to be mediated by Facebook.
My guest today is Kevin Jodry, founder of Wonderland Nursery in Humboldt County, California.
Wonderland is easily the most important cannabis genetics hub in the United States.
Experts come from every part of the world to meet with Kevin and share genetics, techniques,
and stories.
Kevin was also a close friend of Lawrence Ringo and was present to see CBD arise in
America first hand and help it along.
Today, Kevin's going to tell us about those first two years of CBD and how these early
cultivars made their way into the hands of breeders, growers, and patients throughout
the country.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I am your host, Shango Lose.
Welcome to the show, Kevin.
Hey, pleasure to have me on the show, Shango.
Yeah, so glad you could make the time.
So let's get right into it, right?
Because I've heard you tell parts of this story before and I'm really excited to hear
it for myself, but also to share it with the audience.
So the small part of the story that I know is that CBD coming to the United States or
starting to be focused on there in Northern California was kind of happening two ways
at the same time.
Your friend, Lawrence Ringo, was starting to find CBD in some of the lines he was breeding,
but then at the same time, there were these seeds that came from Spanibus through Pure
Analytics and so there were some seeds coming from Europe as well.
So take us back to those early days and explain how everything got started up there.
Well, when you're talking about CBD, if you just go back to 2007, scientists believed
that the CBD had been bred out of cannabis for psychoactive use and that there was this
belief that there was nothing over maybe 2% CBD in existence.
And Harborside in 2008 funded Steep Hill.
They created their own laboratory and they detected something called a stinky purple,
which put them at 4%.
So all of a sudden they started saying, hey, wait a second, CBD does exist in the world.
At the same time, about 2008, a guy named Wade Lotter created Harlequin and Harlequin
was basically a one-to-one.
And so he used genetics that he had and he created one of the first CBD clones and he
released it through Harborside and they started to put it out in small quantities, released
10 and 20.
At that same period in time, you have two individuals that are doing breeding and it
was Jaime from Resin Seeds out in Spain and it's Lawrence Ringo in Northern California.
So the Spain genetic group, we're going to call that canatonic, and everything coming
out of Lawrence Ringo was based off of the Sawa tsunami that he created.
But these two individuals, completely unrelated, completely unconnected, both of them started
to work on lines that were CBD dominant, but neither one of them I don't think knew it
at the time.
The cutting that they worked on in Spain came up at Spanabase with the 5% number and it
became very attractive.
There was a doctor named William Courtney, another doctor out of Luxembourg and Jaime
from Resin Seeds all got together and said, hey, if we could bring these seeds into Northern
California, we could work a breeding project and try to see if we can pull out some really
high CBD with no THC because at that time, that was believed to be a loophole in terms
of cannabis production.
If we could get below the THC numbers that are mandated by the DEA, individuals could
then produce this almost as if it was hemp.
So Courtney was determined to find these numbers.
He believed that CBD was one of the missing components in individual's health.
So he, driving it from a medical direction, working with Jaime from Resin Seeds, they
bring the varietals over to Northern California and they bring them over to a guy named Dreddy
Aaron.
So Dreddy Aaron is a friend of mine.
Dreddy Aaron takes all the cannatonic seed stock and he grows it all out and he pulls
out a bunch of different phenos, but the most famous pheno that got pulled out of it is
ACDC.
And so this 18 to 1 incredible phenotype was pulled out by Dreddy Aaron and there was this
huge struggle over what to do with the clone because they believed that the clone had value.
And so Courtney realized what he was working with and he wanted to benefit from it, which
he should because that's not a bad thing.
He is doing good work.
He'd like to get paid for this work because he's doing so much research on it, but they
were trying to understand how do you get paid off a CBD when at that time, nobody would
take CBD pounds.
You couldn't even sell CBD to a dispensary because no one knew what to do with it.
If it didn't get you high, it had no value.
There was no understanding of it, but we understood on a human level that the CBD had incredible
value and that once the patient's got a hold of it, it would really start to do something
for them.
And so Dreddy Aaron willingly took that ACDC cut and he gave it to me and at that time,
I was the cultivation director for the Humboldt Patient Resource Center in Arcata and I was
running this large operation with this large clone distribution operation and I took that
ACDC cut and we started to propagate it and put it into the public's hands.
So that was where ACDC really originated and started making it into the public.
And now it's the progenitor for, if you take a look at Charlotte's Web, if you DNA Charlotte's
Web through Phylos, you'll see that the Charlotte's Web and ACDC are connected.
So I doubt that Charlotte's Web is prior to ACDC.
So we could say that Charlotte's Web is more than likely a derivative of ACDC.
So ACDC really created this massive super CBD, ultra low THC phenomenon that we're experiencing.
And the beauty of the story is that the guy that released it, Dreddy Aaron, he didn't
try to hold it.
And imagine what this is worth right now.
I mean, we're talking about the CBD empire and this guy willingly released this on his
own and through humanitarian desire because he realized that as much as he would like
to get paid too, he realized that if we were trying to use money to dictate the pace of
the cutting moving into the world, it would completely slow down and actually probably
destroy the progress that was about to be made.
And so he made this incredible decision, releases ACDC into the market.
We start to have super high THC, super high CBD, super low THC.
At that exact time that this little phenomenon is going on, Lawrence Ringo is working on
lines over in in Humboldt.
But what he was working on was he had grabbed and I had to go to Kat and talk to her because
I had got this a little messed up when I was talking to Jerry Whiting.
Because like I said, we all hung out, we worked together, but there's so many little pieces.
And so I went and got it clarified from Kat.
And where Ringo really got this going was he went and got seeds from Mark Emery and
he got New York City diesel and sour diesel and he bred them together and it formed something
called the double diesel.
And so he ran the double diesel for a while and at some point he picked up a clone called
the Ferrari cut from some loggers and he took the Ferrari and he went back into the double
diesel and he went back into a sour diesel and he rolled it multiple times and he ended
up coming out with something that he called the tsunami that he really liked.
Ringo had had a back injury as a child.
I think he was like maybe a young teenager and he hurt his back messing with his friends.
And so he's always had this back problem.
And so he was looking for cannabis that allowed him to function and have pain relief but also
have some good mental euphoria so that you're uplifted.
And he bred himself something that was really solid for him as a varietal.
And about that same time all this is occurring, steep hill popped out in 2007 about the same
time Samantha Miller from Pure Analytics popped out her lab and Samantha Miller and
Ringo hook up and which was an incredible union because when they teamed up the work
that occurred from that point forward was just ungodly in CBD breeding.
But Samantha and Jason the team from Pure Analytics hooked up with Ringo and they tested
his sour tsunami and it came out at 11 percent CBD.
And I think he had seven, yeah it was high at that moment and he had about seven or eight
other varieties at that same time that were also CBD dom.
And so that was you know like I said you're in the 2007-08 time.
By the time we get to 2011, so three years after this introduction, Ringo releases the
first truly stabilized line.
And when someone defines stabilized line in plant breeding or in plant terms that means
four phenotypical distributions.
So every time I breed it I'm going to get four very specific phenotypes out of it consistently.
And so when Ringo was able to create a one in four CBD dominant line he created the first
CBD reproducible line which was his sour sue line.
And so Ringo was taking his tsunami line and he started laying it into everything that
he could find that was CBD dominant and the varieties to increase turf profiles.
And he was working with Samantha Miller and what Samantha Miller had pioneered was predicated
testing.
And so Samantha Miller was the first lab where you could go and find out your cannabinoid
levels of the plant in vegetative form.
And it allowed, I and Ringo were friends but I went after THC numbers.
I was after high rec numbers.
He was after high CBD numbers.
So we use predicated testing to go after different directions in our breeding directions.
And I used it to find exceptionally high THC ratio, exceptionally high THC overall level
males and Ringo was looking for these opposites, exceptionally high CBD dom males.
And so Samantha Miller through her predicated work allowed this process to suddenly speed
up and it went from having two varieties that were over 15, 16 percent CBD to the next year
having over 80.
So you're talking about a breeding speed that was just unbelievable.
And so the idea that CBD no longer existed to having, now we have thousands of CBD dominant
varieties in less than eight years.
Man, that's such a fast rise once it got kicked in.
So from a botany point of view, was THC and high levels of CBD in the naturally occurring
land races and then guys like you who were breeding for THC were intentionally breeding
out the CBD so that the THC was more dominant or was CBD just not in any real significance
in the material you were working with at all?
And so getting these genetics created like this infusion of CBD into your breeding lines.
Well, the thing with CBD is from my own hunting through gene lines is what I found is that
CBD really exists in Pakistan and portions of like, you know, maybe say Southern Afghanistan.
And when you go through those gene lines is where you start to see incredible CBD populations.
And so I always theorize that the people who lived along equatorial to 20 on the equator,
all those cerebral lines, they didn't need CBD, which what I call it, you know, medicine.
They needed cerebral uplifting because they were living in a beautiful area.
But when you're living between the 20 and the 30 on the parallel, you're in some of
the most intense climate on earth.
And those people are typically the hash producing regions, desert regions.
And that's where you see the CBD genetics because you'd say that those individuals choose
cannabis that makes them feel good for their situation.
And so for us in the United States, we have all these gene pools that come into the US.
We work with predominantly you see all THC modeling.
But whenever we started to tap into anything that had Pakistani gene lines is where we
started to see the CBD components come out.
But CBD reduces the ability for THC to really lift you.
So for high CBD in a recreational line, it's the absolute worst thing you can have.
So we were trying to drive CBD levels down through perception because we didn't have
the lab at first to prove it.
But once we started to really get into the labs, being able to analyze and figure out,
we started to see that within the entire population of cannabis, very specific populations with
CBD dominant.
And that was based off of the cultivators who were growing the strains to suit the needs
of the population.
And so individuals historically have always cultivated cannabis to suit their needs.
When we started to really look at the gene lines, we realized it wasn't distributed.
It was cultivated specifically.
So what was the genesis of the lines that came from Europe?
I think you said that you're referring it to as the canna tonic as the cornerstone.
But what happened in Europe that suddenly these lines were seen at Spanibus and then
they found their way to Northern California?
Who was doing that work over there?
Well, it wasn't on purpose.
That's the irony.
No, it wasn't.
It was he did a G13 haze hybrid.
So they did a G13 haze, which is two very, it's a true F1.
You have an extreme dissimilar genetic material put together.
And in that population, you started to have high CBD.
So when Jaime from Resin Seeds came over to NorCal with Courtney and we all hung out for
a couple of months and Jaime was trying to use that mail that he had to tap into all
these other genetics to try to see if he could put CBD in it.
But it was hella funny because at that time, nobody wanted to touch CBD at all because
there was no market for it.
I mean, none.
Right.
So people weren't knowing how to use it yet.
So he was not only very helpful, but he was also visionary seeing that, you know what,
we're ahead of the curve on this.
Once we start educating patients, they're going to be all over clamoring for it.
Well, yeah, I don't I would I don't I wouldn't I wouldn't necessarily say I mean, he was
a Jaime's a bright guy, but I don't know if he was visionary as much because visionary
would say he believed CBD was valuable and he went and created it where he went and said,
listen, let's go chase a direction.
He more he really had a cutting that he entered into a competition and it came out with these
numbers and they said, holy shit, we didn't realize the line had this potential.
And remember, everything we're talking about is because laboratories exist from this minute
forward.
So if laboratories weren't in the in this in this conversation, none of us would have
a clue what we were looking at.
So are you are you saying that that when he entered the G13 haze into Spanibus, he did
not know about the high CBD levels, but it was when it was tested as part of the competition
that he got these results and everybody was blown away?
Bingo.
Oh, my gosh.
What a lucky break.
Well, look at look at look at Lawrence.
I mean, Lawrence wasn't breeding for CBD in terms of per se, like, hey, I am breeding
for CBD.
I mean, shit, we barely knew about the damn cannabinoids eight, 10 years ago.
I mean, really, really, we really we we were so ignorant 10 years ago.
It's mind bending and we just knew what we liked.
And so Lawrence knew that this cannabis made his back feel good.
And I remember when we were sitting at the table in the shop, me, Samantha and Lawrence,
and he was just like, God damn, I can't believe I have such high CBD alleles in my lines by
fact that I chose it because it made me feel good.
So when when Jaime brought brought the strains over, had he made seeds from his cut and he
brought the seeds or did he actually bring his own cut?
Both.
He brought the male cutting and he brought seed stock.
Wow.
So did he just bring one cut or did he bring like a handful of cuts in case, you know,
it didn't make one of them didn't make the trip?
Well, he just brought the male.
Oh, he brought he brought plants, but it was just the male.
The only the only plant that came over as a plant form was the male that he had.
But everything else came as seed stock, because the problem with this is, remember, it's a
true F1.
And so you're going to see incredible population dissimilarity.
And what we saw was CBD from 20 to THC zero to the exact opposite THC 20 CBD zero.
So you know, the kinetotic line was all over the place.
You had to go through this massive line to find anything that made sense.
That's why CBD was so difficult, was that they didn't have the ability to find the males
that carried the high CBD allele.
And so you couldn't you couldn't stabilize the trait until the laboratory really started
to give us that ability.
And then once they had the ability to start driving the direction, they could get more
of a consistency.
One in four is where we were trying to go.
But the kinetotic is still a train wreck if you breed into it.
You know, it's it's all over the place and you have a lot of the phenotypes are basically
commercial hemp hay coming out of the haze line that has some of the worst quality turf
profile you could envision.
And it makes it great for just a soup, you know, an extraction where you're going to
add a turp or add it to food.
But for people who want to consume it as a product, you know, it a lot of it is, you
know, the quality of the experience.
And that's where some of the kinetotics lacked.
And that's where Lawrence was able to kind of come in and develop stuff like the Swiss
tsunami where he had these beautiful orange Mandarin terpenes in a 15 to one.
And so you got to remember that that extraction and the labs all kind of touch CBD where they
all begin at the exact same time.
And so extraction is really new.
And so people weren't extracting CBD eight years ago.
They were smoking it as flour.
And so what we were doing is we were chasing through CBD lines to find CBD lines that had
the right ratio, the right total, but also the right turf profile that was palatable
because on a lot of these hempase combos, they just taste like shit and nobody wants
to smoke it.
Right on.
So let's go to our first break.
And when we come back, we'll talk more about how you guys churned through all of the seeds
that you were getting to find the stuff that you wanted to work with.
You're listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is Kevin Jodry, founder of Wonderland
Nursery.
Now that the health benefits of terpenes have become well known in the cannabis industry,
people everywhere are looking for the purest terpenes without adulterants.
The problem with most terpene providers is that they're not sourced naturally and instead
are made as a byproduct of refining petroleum.
And that's so sketchy.
The terpenes sold by True Terpenes are entirely different.
They are certified organic, non-GMO and food grade.
That means that they are extracted from real plant sources.
There are no solvents of any kind.
They are distilled only with steam.
That's right.
Only steam.
In fact, terpenes from True Terpenes are so pure that you can eat them.
Not only that, but you can stack them with better results too.
What I mean is, other companies' terpenes have got a few percent of impurities and when
you stack those terpenes to make your blend, you're adding a variety of impurities that
degrade your final product.
True Terpenes also have strain specific terpenes for a wide range of cannabis strains like
Durban Poison, Sunset Sherbet and Granddaddy Purple.
True Terpenes has robust and supportive customer service so your questions will get answered
fast and efficiently.
If you've shopped for terpenes before, you know how rare that is.
So whether you want to cup your hands to smell some beta-caryophyllene to calm down after
getting too high, or if you want to dab some pinene so your lungs feel fabulous and your
mind feels liberated, True Terpenes will provide you with a truly natural experience.
If you are a cannabis product developer, these are the terpenes you want to add to your oil
or edible or capsule or whatever.
True Terpenes are simply the best your money can buy.
Don't try and make a premium product with substandard terps.
Choose True Terpenes for a top shelf experience.
Go to shapingfire.com forward slash true terpenes to find out more or click on the link in this
week's newsletter.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose.
And our guest this week is Kevin Chaudhry, founder of Wonderland Nursery.
So before the break, Kevin, we were talking about how both Jaime bringing genetics, CBD
genetics from Europe and also there in Northern California, Lawrence Ringo had both found
CBD in the lines that they were breeding very possibly because of the advent of all of this
new CBD testing and the arrival of the first cannabis labs.
So once these these original CBD strains found themselves into your hands, what did you all
do to to churn through all of the possibility of the genetics to find what you wanted to
make the the spine of the lines you guys were working on?
Well, I I was running a dispensary at that moment.
And if you go back, you know, eight, eight years ago, everything was still kind of, you
know, risky.
Now we're in legal land.
Things are a lot different.
And so what we were doing at that dispensary was we were banking a lot of the genetics
for these operations where we would hold copies of stuff so that there was duplicate copies.
And then the the relationship between William Courtney and the dispensary was really pretty
good.
And so William Courtney had had communicated at the same time we did the CBD.
We also did all the juicing trials.
And so William Courtney and the dispensary was pretty connected.
And it it was a good relationship in the sense that we were trying to understand what the
value of the CBD stuff was, because you got to remember, there was nobody nobody knew
anything about this.
And so I said, I can dedicate X amount of space to this in my shop so we can start to
hold and do the sifting.
And it was really just cracking seeds, growing them out and doing and doing the test on them
to find which one of these varieties actually had marketable qualities.
When the sift was done, there was another plant.
It's out there.
I lost it myself.
But there was there was another progeny called C6.
And the C6 was cantonic six.
I don't remember the exact number of ACDC.
It might have been like, you know, cantonic 52.
But cantonic six was the exact same numbers as ACDC.
It was an 18 to one, but it was probably like, you know, 20 times the production level.
It was this massive cactus of a plant.
Same thing, tremendously terrible turf profiles, but supernatural production.
And we would use the dispensary to churn through and sift through.
And once once we figured out which one of these phenos had the varieties, you know,
the ratios we wanted, we were able to stabilize on it.
At that time, we didn't we didn't know what to do with with keeping ratios where what
do you what's the desire?
We kind of know now like a one to one and a two to one and a 10 to one and a 20 to one
kind of give you some some really good coverage where you don't have to have 300 different
CBD strains.
We can have some basic ratios that give us relatively changing amounts of THC and the
two to ones and the one to ones are giving us enough THC so that the individual has efficacy
in that direction and with the others we can work.
And so it was just it was trying to understand at that time, did we need to have I mean,
Christ, we were trying to hold, you know, 50, 60, 70 copies of it, meaning a one to
one or 1.5 to one or 2.1, 2.5 to one, because we didn't know where the values were.
And so what we knew was the ACDC and the C6 had by far the greatest, you know, the concentrations
where they were 18 plus.
But at the same time, you know, we didn't we didn't know what to do with them.
But once we started to release them and they started to go into the med situation, it started
to really pop out.
What we started to do too was we started to have people come in and access all these CBD
lines that we were given out from the dispensary.
And you started to see all these people breeding the CBD lines into their existing lines, meaning
we were given them ACDC cut C6 cuts, Harlequin cuts.
Lawrence had provided the Swiss Sue.
He had given me I want to say like maybe a Harley Sue Harlequin tsunami that he had done.
And we were we were providing those to people all over the place, you know, say eight years
ago, the beginning of the CBD to get it out into the market.
And that's really where you see all these hybrids today that are coming.
It was that push from that time period.
So it was really pretty neat to be able to sift through this stock and pull out phenotypes.
It's just that, you know, the irony of it is, is that we just didn't nowadays, if we
could repeat it, if we could repeat the process right now where we had a lot better understanding
of what it was we were trying to hunt and look for, it'd be a lot more effective.
You know, you you do the best you can with the knowledge you have at the time.
But boy, this was the beginning of the whole CBD phenomenon.
And we really were just trying to understand, you know, what do you do with it?
What works?
What levels?
It was it was so new that I'm sure we made plenty of mistakes in the process.
And I wish I could go back and do it twice.
But you got what you got.
Yeah, totally.
And, you know, one thing that I think is important to point out is now a second time, the importance
of the new cannabis labs.
Right.
So even recognizing that there was CBD in the cuts, you know, instead of having to just,
you know, toke them and figure out how it made your body feel.
Well, you were testing for the CBD and so you knew it was there.
But now the predictive breeding you were able to do where, you know, you just had to crack
a seed and then in a few weeks you could test the leaf and you didn't have to run it all
the way through flower.
I mean, the amount of time that you saved sifting through these seeds is just monumental.
Oh, yeah.
Yes.
It's unreal.
I still do it constantly now, but there was there's no way you can drive a project that's
cannabinoid based accurately through feel.
I mean, I've been I've been grown for 38 years, which which isn't the longest grower I know.
But man, that's a long time.
And I still have to use lab tests to really understand what it is that's affecting me,
because when you change the ratios or you shift the minors, it changes the effect and
perception.
And all of a sudden you really don't know what you're looking at.
And so the lab let us have some true accuracy.
And if we had had, you know, Phyllis technology, then it would have allowed us to understand
what made up the plant we were looking at so that we could really have said, hey, wait
a second, go go to chase Pakistan genetics.
I mean, if I want CBD, I go after Pakistani genetics specifically.
I don't even waste my time looking anywhere else because I know that the Pakistani lines,
the real Pakistani lines from Pakistan that I get shipped in from the Tirra Valley, those
things are so CBD rich, it's not funny.
And so, you know, nowadays we know where to look to find the populations.
It's just, you know, trying to access it.
But man, if we had had, you know, Phyllis working in conjunction with pure analytics,
we would have been able to figure out how to get the numbers high and then where the
lines existed from that contain those genes.
And we would have been able to get out of all the muddling, covering genetic form that
was in the way of the CBD direction.
It's the same when we're running, you know, high THC lines.
I'm trying to get rid of stock that's going to slow down that ability for the THC to stack up.
I can only have so many molecules in the basket and, you know, maybe 30, 35 percent total
and everything.
Maybe, you know, and if we add terps, maybe 40 with terps complete.
And so if that's the total that can be present, I'm trying on a THC level to get rid of all
my CBD.
But on the conversation we're having, we're trying to get rid of all the THC in those
forms and in those in specific genealogical locations and lines, you can do it.
And so the laboratory right now is just blowing my mind on how I'm able to see the picture.
So I'm taking varieties that I used to look at and I could DNA them and I can say, oh,
I got you.
I'm connected to this.
So maybe we should chase something over here.
Right on.
That makes sense.
So let me ask you about the strains that you're, the seeds that you were pulling from Pakistan
because you knew they were CBD rich.
You know, we talk a lot on this show about how often genetics from, you know, the US
and Europe find their way into these small communities because they want to trade, you
know, our new school hybridized genetics locally and we want to get their land races.
And what's happening is that, you know, some of our genetics are finding their ways to,
you know, Pakistan or Jamaica or India or wherever.
And they're corrupting the local land race genetics.
So you know, the people that you know who continue to go to Pakistan to try to find
more of this, these original land races to work with, are they finding that the CBD aspect
of it is becoming corrupted yet?
Well, no, because the difference between, you know, Pakistan and Afghanistan and a lot
of places is that, I mean, very little Europeans are hanging out over there for the last 10,
15 years and very little Americans are hanging out over there.
So those are places where, you know, they're really difficult to get stock in and out.
And a lot of the stock is being replaced by opium.
And so they're losing land race due to opium.
It's places like South America, Central America, Africa, those places are where the, you know,
the Euro and the North American genetics are infiltrating.
And people don't understand what land race means and land race means non-cultivated.
It means that the plants, the plants seeded and grew themselves for time.
And because of that, it contains genetic information that says, hey, in this plant
is the genes that said survived during drought, survived during a flood, handle pestilence,
handle poor conditions.
And all those survival genes exist and live within the gene pool.
And what we do is we go into a land race line and we do something called a cultivated variety,
a cultivar, and we pull something out of it that we like specifically and we monocrop
it.
And the problem is, is that we don't have any more of these land race populations to
look through.
So it's really similar to like when you're chopping the rainforest down, you've removed
a lot of the genetic material to work with and you can't replace it.
And so for us right now, it's why I'm so caught up with the genetic stuff with phyllos is
that it's allowing me to relook at everything I'm touching to see what am I really looking
at so that it makes it, you know, worth your time to sift through if you're trying to find
specific directions on your breed lines.
And for people that are working CBD or THC, this is incredibly important.
You know, that's interesting because to a certain degree, the violence in those regions
is kind of protecting what is left of the CBD stock there naturally that, well, yeah,
a lot of the cannabis is being pushed out by poppies.
But since there's not a lot of Western folks showing up there for the time being, there's,
you know, it's probably like a natural archive of CBD strains.
Oh, guarantee, because you got to remember the people who live there that traffic just
like me, I'm from Humboldt County, so I'm a trafficker.
Right.
But I'm a cannabis consumer.
And so my whole my whole existence began as a consumer, like I assume most Pakistani and
Afghani people.
And so to them, you know, they're growing and smoking what's what's what's making them
feel good.
And if I'm living in an environment like Pakistan, and I don't mean societally, I mean, environmentally
where Pakistan hits like one hundred thirty five degrees.
I mean, you got like extremes in Pakistan that are so unreal.
It might be some of the worst weather on earth.
I mean, dry and hot and cold and holy Christ.
So I think that the people there are still cultivating their outdoor strains to suit
the desires and needs.
It's just that, you know, we don't have an ability to go into these little villages and
meet locals and say, hey, your family has been growing for the last two hundred years
in this little bowl here.
Can I access some of your gene lines?
And if we took it home, it would have been some really fiery stuff.
But I guarantee it would have been some higher CBD populations than anywhere else in the
world.
Yeah, right on.
That makes sense.
Well, before we get into how these these strains started finding their their way into people's
hands, let's take another short break.
You're listening to Shaping Fire.
And my guest today is Kevin Jodrey, founder of Wonderland Nursery.
For anyone who is paying attention to cannabis medicine, it has become incredibly apparent
that full extract cannabis oil, known to some as Rick Simpson oil, is the cornerstone
of healing humans with medical marijuana.
If you own a medical dispensary or retail store, you know that your customers are asking
for it every single day.
And if you have been working with patients and seeking out quality full extract oil in
the Pacific Northwest, you know the provider Deep Green.
Kat Jeter and her team at Deep Green have been making full extract cannabis oil and
setting the standards for quality and exact dosing for years in Washington state.
The Deep Green brand is known by patients and cannabis media as a premium quality provider
for sick children, cancer patients and others in need.
At a time when there are no national standards for cannabis oil, ensuring a product is whole
plant, quality assured and lab tested is often a matter of knowing your source is reputable.
Trust and a quality brand is essential when choosing a cannabis medicine that is going
to be used concentrated and in volume by any patient and especially those with weakened
immune systems.
Deep Green is looking for national brand partners to expand the availability of their legacy
top shelf cannabis oil to emerging medical and licensed states.
Partners benefit from the Deep Green brand recognition and credibility as well as ongoing
customer and marketing support.
Not only that, but Deep Green knows how to employ the 280e tax rule so you can deduct
it all from your taxes.
Working with Deep Green can provide the trust and authenticity too often pushed aside in
favor of lifestyle products.
Your customers can assure themselves that regardless of the state in which it is made,
brand licensees adhere to the same strict standards that patients everywhere have come
to expect from Deep Green.
Deep Green licensing includes startup and capital planning as well as operational and
manufacturing instruction as you'd expect.
For more information on how your company, co-op or medical dispensary can benefit from
partnering with Deep Green to provide full extract cannabis oil to patients, go to shapingfire.com
forward slash deepgreen to connect with Kat Jeter and her team.
That's shapingfire.com forward slash deepgreen.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose.
Our guest this week is Kevin Jodry, founder of Wonderland Nursery.
Before the break, we were talking about how the CBD strains were put together, how you
sifted through all the genetics.
With the help of the new cannabis laboratories, you were able to really focus your genetic
program and you found your cornerstones in the cannatonic and the ACDC and the Swiss
Sioux from Lawrence.
Now we're to a point that you have this stuff and people are starting to extract the CBD
out of it.
How did these strains find their way into people's hands so that the amount of breeders
who were doing citizen science got so much bigger and then the strains found their way
around the country?
You get stabilized sour Sioux around 2011.
2012, we start getting all the clones to really move out.
I took over another shop at that time and I realized that the problem we were having
with CBD being really put into the market was that people who were commercial producers
were intelligent enough to understand the value of it but people who were really medically
needy were really too poor to really afford medicine.
It was something I started to notice as a dispensary operator where I started to realize
that the true recipient was too poor to receive it.
They weren't going to be able to really help themselves.
When you make medicine to give to people, it's usually too expensive to sustain at a
high level.
With cannabis, to me, so much of it is to be able to self-cultivate your medicine.
What we realized was that these varietals needed to be pushed into the system but they
had to be pushed into a system at an affordable rate.
I couldn't understand really how to figure out what affordable was so we just figured
we'd do it for free.
Over the last four years, we distributed over about 110,000 CBD clones.
That's through veterans groups, any CBD collective, any person that could come to the shop could
access any of the genes.
Over the last four years, we've been able to fill up and groups from all over the United
States would send representatives who then would get an official California person who
would come in and get with the ID and the 215.
It allowed the CBD genetics to move across the country because they were free.
I didn't charge any money for them.
Is that still the case?
We just had to stop in January 1 because the Prop 64 came out.
Prop 64 says no products can be given away for free so we're trying to figure out how
we can work the taxes on it.
It's just something that I was really ... I'm a strong believer in it.
I'm somebody who's been a commercial cannabis producer most of his life but when I got into
med cannabis, I got really, really struck by how poor people who were sick were.
I really wasn't understanding of that situation.
I was kind of insulated from it.
I wasn't ill.
I'm busy working so I don't see a lot of going on.
I realized when I got into this position nine years ago that the need for compassion was
incredible.
Then the CBD thing was something that was so unbelievable for people who needed it for
tumor relief, inflammatory issues, cancer relief.
I said, let's just make it free.
We were able to kick it out but what it did was it allowed everyone and their brother
to get the clones and if you were a large producer, we wouldn't give you trays of it.
We focused primarily on people who were getting 10 to 20 clones at a time.
It allowed us to just absolutely saturate the medical base with self-producers of their
own medicine.
We allowed a lot of these people that were doing this to get genetics from Lawrence in
seed form.
Now Lawrence had died.
He passed away probably three, four years ago but when he passed away, I received a
huge collection of his CBD genetics and then I took that collection and spread that out
into the system so that these genes were all in the world.
Then people, medical, elderly, they would get seed packs of CBD from Lawrence and then
they would get cuttings from me that were connected to the seed pack and then I would
help them with predicated and selection process so they could start to stabilize lines themselves.
You started to have community groups of elderly that were doing their own CBD juicing program,
CBD medicine production and they were able to do it in a group.
I was able to tie them in with labs and other makers so that they could all work in a really
cohesive fashion so that they could afford to produce the medicine at the level they
needed.
To me, it was the best thing I ever did in cannabis because it drove CBD throughout as
far as I could stick it and no one had to pay for it so it allowed everybody to get
their hands on it and what it did was it took people who were what I call mainstreamers,
people who … What you're going to find in med cannabis is that typically med cannabis
people aren't cannabis per se.
If they were cannabis per se, they would already be on med cannabis.
They would kind of integrate quickly but when you come from med cannabis specifically, you're
usually a non-med cannabis user and when we were able to take the money away from the
true CBD end of it, it just absolutely shocked mainstream people and it made a lot of them
cry because they were needy of help and compassion and when they received it in such a human
way, it shocked them and it changed their perception of us as a culture and I know because
I see the ripple of it through the communities and I was so grateful to be able to be part
of that because it's the ability for cannabis to be used intelligently by all people and
the stigma is what's screwing it up and CBD to me was what allowed people in the mainstream
to see us who are more rec users as normal where just because I like to be infused with
cannabis doesn't mean that I'm less of a human and now that people who had medical
issues were able to get cannabis and when they went to get it, they got it served to
them in such an elegant gracious way that there was no way they could look at us as
being malignancy and so that it was such a beautiful synchronicity of goodwill and timing
that I mean no matter what takes place with the federal government right now, CBD is living in
10 million homes. It's being grown everywhere. Yeah and because the conditions, the human
conditions that CBD offers relief from are so pervasive and so, you know, they cause so many
people to suffer. It's a profound human gift to be able to give high CBD whole plant medicine
to somebody who's sick and watch their spasticity stop, you know, help them, you know, either cure
their cancer or just help their symptoms. It's profound for people who work with patients to
see the relief but then to give them the relief for no money because you're right, patients,
you get broke fast because it's expensive being a patient. You know, we still see this every day
as more and more people get turned on to what CBD could do for them. I mean, heck, that's even
without even going into the states that are just medical now. I mean, you and I both live in rec
states now and we can start to see how people are starting to profit from it more but, you know,
in the early days of every state, it's just good growers, you know, putting a certain amount of
their crop to CBD and giving it away. It was, it was, it was compassion. It's just like RSO,
Rick Simpson oil. You know, Rick Simpson was a farmer who wanted to fight cancer. He grew an
acre. He distilled it. He gave it a shot. It turned out he releases the recipe. You know,
I, he could have made a lot of money off it. You know, a hundred, 110,000 clones is a million,
hundred thousand dollars. So when that's, so that's a lot of money, but it's, it's currency
that is only has one value. The currency of doing a social justice, you really can't calculate it
because you have no idea who's benefiting from it. And so, you know, to be able to be part,
it's funny, you know, for all of us in cannabis at a career like me, I mean, we were all criminals.
I mean, Christ, we ran from five Oh, every step of the way. And now, you know, we're all pretty
normal and we can function and stuff. But to be able to, to be able to take part in society in a
positive manner, when you probably always wanted to, like most of us did was an incredible experience.
And so some of this stuff right now is allowing all of us that had to live this weird duality of
existence. We can now be open and honest and CBD cannabis to me more than any other thing is what
allowed the mainstream to accept cannabis at all. Because once they realized that cannabis was valid
for their need, now they can start to say, well, maybe it's valid for your need. And who's to say
you're wrong once we start to find validity. And so we started to see radical changes in how
mainstream looks at people who smoke cannabis. And I have the number of elderly that come to
me for for cannabis assistance is unbelievable. Because you know, we're trying to explain to them
how to use the products, how to how do you titrate your doses? How do you figure it out? And if and
if the elderly are in concern, or if you're ill, and you're concerned, we let you come in just
apprentice at the shop, and we'll be able to help you and show you and get you up to speed enough to
where you're going to be able to go home and do your your your your cultivation work yourself and
get some success. We try to set it up to where we put them in groups to where the CBD people always
work in groups of three. And what it does, it allows you I came up with a whole piece based off
of the legal production amount of Humboldt County. And so I did all this R&D on my own, but I used
Humboldt County's legal numbers to create an indoor model because that's where they have the most
stability most people can do indoor but not outdoor. And so legally, you're allowed this X
amount of space. So I created this little mini model. And I did all the R&D so I could understand
how much came off of it. And that's basically the model we put everyone into. And it allows a couple
of people to be able to cultivate a couple months of the year. And then the rest of the month, you
don't have to cultivate, you just benefit from the material. And the people who are older and elderly,
and they they start to become weakened from their condition, they don't have to suddenly fail from
production because they don't have assistance. So we we started to tie the groups together and and
put people together and, and I would just serve as the technical hub. And sometimes I would give them
money to buy the tent. So I would find extra lights, or we would just do whatever we needed to do to
facilitate. But it allowed these people to feel strong enough to self build their little systems.
And slowly, all of a sudden, you started to see regular individuals who never use cannabis,
suddenly have benefit from cannabis better than they ever had from mainstream pharmaceuticals. And
they became some of the most vocal proponents of cannabis usage of anybody I know. I mean, when you
convert mainstream people into cannabis users, and they have a change in life without any decrease in
quality of life, it is a change for all of us for the better. And for all of us that are commercial
cannabis guys, or, you know, career users, I mean, we needed the we needed the break. And it's funny,
but CBD, which doesn't get you high, allowed everyone who wants to get high and ability to say
so without having to feel like you're a drug addict and ashamed.
Yeah, the best thing that ever happened for cannabis as a whole, was, you know, the the pictures on TV
of kids having seizures, and then they'll seizures stopping, you know, I mean, it totally opened up a
whole new world. So So let me ask you about the the potential darker side of it. Because like, you
know, so far, we've been talking about, you know, the the kind hearted growers who had been trying
to put CBD in the hands of patients. But I can imagine that there were probably some opportunists
that you came across who were, you know, grabbing the ACDC strain and renaming it and try to claim
it as theirs or something like that. Did you did you come across much of that? And while you were in
the in the process of spreading it out?
Not so much that they were trying to grab it as their own, it was just more a matter of, you were
seeing what I got to see was I got to see people's intent. I mean, I've been I've been in the drug
game my whole life, right? So I'm no virgin to seeing shady. But I got to see some different shady
where I got to see people who they realize the value of the CBD and that these people were
basically a captive market that they needed the product. And they would come to me and say, Hey,
listen, you know, we want to be we want you know, 20,000 clones from you to do this big production,
we're gonna do this thing, we're gonna get all this money. And, and it was funny, because it was, for a
lot of us that are in cannabis, they believe the people that came to us to do this, they kind of
believe that we were corrupt, too. And it was weird, because, you know, we're, we're, we're felony
level, you know, cannabis growers, you know, prior. And so we have a history of being, you know,
lawbreakers, but we, none of us that were in cannabis wanted to do the scandalous shit and, and
push the big CBD product. And so what you got to see was this separation in cannabis, where all of a
sudden, it was people who were not in cannabis, who came in with the ability to commercially salvage
this product, and push it. And it was a direct war between them. And guys like us, Ringo, you know,
all the people who were trying to get the product into the hands of the people, so that they could
self medicate, self heal. And so, you know, it you got to see this abuse of, of people, it's just,
it's the same as you see with any abuse. And so it was it was kind of weird, because it was the first
time I got to see it in cannabis, we've never had anybody really come in and be parasitic like that.
We've never had, you know, anything that was quite like this, where you had an ability to have a
product that if you could get it below a certain THC level, you could sell it online. I mean,
that's where the whole the ACDC, this, these CBD oils, well, all of a sudden, it opens up the market
for the entire fake Chinese hemp oil. Yeah. So you're having all this industrial grade trash oil
covered with pesticides and heavy metals being given to people who are who are very ill. And so,
you know, those are the issues with it. That's why I tried so hard to get the product into the
hands of the people. And so many people I know did the same thing where we just drove it in
Samantha Miller, and Jason from pure analytics, man, they Christ, they went on a crusade of
free speaking lectures, where they toured everywhere talking so that people would be
able to understand what is this thing? How do you use it? What do you do with it? Where do you
access it? So this way, individuals would be able to get themselves out of that situation to where
they weren't in such a potentially usury role. It's really interesting to consider how the
the street price or the retail price, if you will, of CBD has has evolved and will continue to evolve
over the next decade. You know, you were talking in the first set that when when you first had the
high CBD stuff, you couldn't you know, you couldn't give it away. The retailers didn't know what to do
with it. People just want we're looking for high THC. And then with you know, increased education,
and of course, the the super popular Sanjay Gupta TV episode about it, you know, suddenly everybody
wanted it. And and because of the, you know, there's just not enough CBD, you know, prepared
CBD oil to go around to all of the patients that could use it. So suddenly, the prices then
skyrocketed, not because people were necessarily trying to, you know, screw people over, but
just because the market was pushing because there was so little of it available. And now that's even
more so in rec states, where you know, the first wave of licensed growers, I mean, they're going to
go for the THC stuff, because that that serves the most people. But now, for example, in Washington,
you know, there's just, you know, there's just barely enough of the CBD in the market even say
that it's in the market. So the prices are still high. But you know, a couple years from now,
there's gonna be a lot more people growing it at the commercial and license level and the price
will come back down. But you know, talk about a variable pricing of a product, my gosh, it's,
it's not quite to the commodity level yet where it's where it's as inexpensive as some THC stuff
is. No, but you know, if you know where it's pricey is in banned states to mothers with kids
who are dying. Yeah. And and so they're the ones that are just getting screwed on this. I mean,
oh my god, talk up because the problem is that once they let the cat out the bag that cannabis
has positive effects, and it's not a panacea, it doesn't cure every damn problem, but it can sure
do a lot for a lot. Well, then people who are having problems become curious, because they're
like, hey, they want to save their kid. And the problem is that it opens them up because they
typically don't understand production quality. It's kind of like Rick Simpson oil to me. So you
know, for all in Humboldt, it's a little different because all of us are large growers, right. And so
if what we do is we take portions of our crops, and we have it turned into Rick Simpson from people
we know that are Rick Simpson makers. Now, now that 64 is here, we'll figure out how to work
with this too. But in the years prior for the last, say, so many years, we know people who do
RSO production. And what they'll do is they'll donate their time. And they end and we pay for
material, I donate the material, the cannabis, and we then produce RSO. And then we can give it
to people who are lower income who are going through tumor cancer, because an RSO treatment
is really about, you know, shit, sometimes up to six grand for two months shot. And so six grand is
a tremendous amount of money for people who are absolutely wiped out. And so you know, what you
have is the grower community has typically carried a river of these people and, and grow a community,
we don't talk about it, we're not trying to get, hey, look, look at me, I'm doing a good thing.
It's, it's, it's a, it's a, it's a thing that's necessary, because if we don't do it, the product
won't be there. So if the guys that are growing weight, aren't able to give up a little bit of
weight, you there's no subsidized medicine for the people and it opens it up to these larger CBD type
companies, but you're paying some money you're paying, you know, for CBD cartridge and formula,
you might be paying over 100 bucks or something for a gram of oil to consume. And that's incredibly
expensive. I think that's also why folks who need RSO, even in legal states are still tending to
find it in the casual or informal unlicensed market. Because, you know, most of the growers
that I know who are growing specifically for patients, you know, they'll have their price for
one gram. But if they know you have cancer, and you're going to do the 60 grams over 90 days
regimen, you know, they tend to give you a price break because you're buying 60 grams at once,
and they know you're sick. Well, you know, that's that's not how it goes in the rec states, because
you're not allowed to give you know, volume price breaks like that the way that the laws are so far.
Exactly. And so it makes it very hard. Yeah, totally. Instead of buying 60 grams,
you're buying 60 single grams. And so you're paying full price for the whole for the whole
lot of it, which is, of course, you know, hitting the person who can afford at least.
Yeah, totally. And that's that's the part that's so hard. And, and then, you know,
I'm not smoking cannabis, because I have glaucoma, I like to get lifted mentally. I'm a spiritual
smoker. And hopefully when I have, you know, if I ever have medical problems, cannabis,
hopefully will help me with that. But, you know, from being in my position all these years, what I
see is if you're real med, you are having some real issues. And that's when you start to get
caught up with parasitic type individuals. And so the problem with cannabis is a cannabis is
almost traditionally always been pretty kind, the people in cannabis dealing with each other.
And now we've changed it from a shared product to a commoditized product. And it's a question of,
you know, how do you how do you still maintain the compassion that cannabis had? Because cannabis is
not the normal everybody wants cannabis, but I still like cannabis. And I would prefer to remain
that way. You know what I mean? And I don't mind business. I'm about making money because I have
to feed my children. But cannabis is so elegant. There's no need to diminish it with with shoddy,
poor, cheap behavior. Right on. That's well said. So. So, hey, I still want to talk about what you
see next for CBD development. But let's take our last break here. And when we come back, we'll talk
about that. You're listening to Shaping Fire. I'm your host, Shango Los. And our guest this week is
Kevin Jodry, founder of Wonderland Nursery. If you like podcasts like Shaping Fire, chances are
that you'll like audio books, too. Just like with podcasts, audio books speak to you, tell you
stories and teach you stuff. Here's the thing. Audible.com has an offer that I want to tell you
about. Right now, they're offering a trial of their audio book service for absolutely free.
You can go to shapingfire.com forward slash audible and you'll get a free audio book straight
up. You can listen to it on your mobile device, computer or download it and listen to it like
anywhere. It's really simple. Of course, they want you to subscribe to their service after the free
trial and enjoy audio books forever, but you don't have to. All you have to do to get the free
audio book of your choice is to just check out the service for free. And the service is pretty great.
There are whole sections on permaculture, sci-fi, history, biography. Hell, you can even listen to
a book about card counting and blackjack. Whatever. It's all pretty rad. So that's the deal. Your first
book is free. It's easy to sign up. It's easy to quit. And their online library of free books is
pretty incredible. So just check it out. Go to shapingfire.com forward slash audible to find out
more or just click on the link in this week's newsletter. Welcome back. You are listening to
Shaping Fire and I am your host, Shango Lose. And our guest this week is Kevin Jodry, founder of
Wonderland Nursery. So this has all been really inspiring so far, Kevin. And one of the things
that we're all curious about is what CBD holds for the future. I mean, we certainly know that
there are product developers coming up with new ways to get CBD into the human system to help
bathe their endocannabinoid system with these healthy cannabinoids. But I know you come from
a breeding background and there's just becoming more and more people interested in CBD and
probably also breeding it. So I'd like you to look into your crystal ball a little bit and let us
know what you see forthcoming with CBD breeding and where you might encourage people to look if
they're looking to get involved, you know, breeding some lines themselves. I think with
CBD breeding, what you're going to find is that as we start to become really cognizant of the impact
of the terpene profile on how we perceive the effect, that you're starting to see people weaving
CBD into a lot of the higher THC strains so that we can pull those terp profiles that we find so
enjoyable and mix it in with the CBD because people are starting to find for a lot of individuals that
it's a little bit too much THC. It's a little too racy. It's a little too intense. And they're
starting to find that they like CBD blends, but they need the terp profiles to get the effect
that they really, really want because we know that these terpene profiles are what drive it.
And so what I'm seeing is I'm seeing some really interesting CBD being woven in with, you know, a
lot of OG lines being intercrossed, a lot of these sexy, you know, OG Skittle lines, Sherbert lines,
Cookie lines. They're all being hit with CBD pollen to see if we can find things that have
those enjoyable palette and presence, but not in such a powerful form. What's kind of cool too is
they're starting to create delivery devices like Penform. The Humboldt brand has a really neat pen
that buzzes when you reach, you know, like two and a half milligram dose. And so the thing about,
you know, using these products is the titration, the dose amount. And so you're starting to see
preloaded pens that when you hit it, it stops hitting after X amount is put through. So you're
able to really dial in your dosages. I think that you're starting to be able to see CBD is,
we can use it as a balance with THC. So I have pens at my shop that a lab, Pyrrha and Lennox,
they made for me so that anybody that had an overdose on an edible or an overdose on too much
BHO, we could use. So I waited until I found someone who had a good overdose and we hit them
with the CBD pens that were designed to completely counteract the high THC. And then within seven
minutes, it knocked it completely out. So someone went from having a full panic attack to complete
stability in seven minutes. Holy crap. I have not heard of that product. I mean, we're still,
when somebody has an overmedicated experience, we're still giving them,
you know, beta-carotene terpenes, you know, to help bring them down.
But high CBD, yeah, high CBD consumed, it knocks it out. What I'm seeing is high CBD in spray form
and people that have epilepsy. I was at an event and a lady fell down with a seizure and her friend
went right over to her bag, pulled out a spray bottle, sprayed it in her mouth, stopped her
seizures on the spot. And it was just really an ACDC concentrate. So you're seeing people who have
these seizures, bringing with them their own medicine and people who are with them know to
use it. And the change in this woman's, the seizure was instantly nullified. And after a few minutes,
she got up off the floor, we cleaned her up and she went right back about her normal day. And I
mean, you know, you're seeing CBD being used in some really interesting methodologies to help and
change existing effects, but it's becoming so convenient to use. You know, as far as the
breeding lines go, you know, you used this great analogy earlier about, you know, this molecular
basket. And originally you were trying to breed out your CBD because you wanted to leave more room
for more THC and more terpenes. If you're going to top out at 40%, you know, you want to use each
percentile towards your goal. What would you see? You know, I mean, I personally think everybody,
you know, can benefit from CBD, even if they're, even if they're toking for the THC, because the
CBD just makes the THC experience that more, much more pleasant, but you're right. The CBD strains
have got crappy terps, you know, they're just, they're not very pleasant. You got to look,
you got to hunt. And so what I do is I hunt through the lines and then we find a cutting of it that we
say, Hey, this is something that's palatable and it's chemotype is correct. And it's, it's terp
profile is sexy and it grows well for the grower. And then you have something that people can use
and say, Hey, I felt really good when I smoked that. And then they go, holy shit, it's a 20%
CBD, 10% THC. And so we're, we're, I don't tell you what it is when I give it to you,
because otherwise you won't smoke it. But when I start to give people some of these high
CBD strains that have neat terp profiles, you're seeing them gravitate to it. And so we're doing
it, Shango. We're getting people to be able to really use cannabis in the way they should have,
which is in the way they need to. So, so let's talk to a minute specifically for the breeders
who are listening, who are, you know, at least all over the country, listening to the show.
But, but, you know, we've got some international listeners as well, but, but let's talk directly
to them. Let's say that they are, you know, a historically high THC grower. They've been
fascinated, but about the story that you've been saying, obviously they, they know about CBD,
you know, where, where's the PR the promise, you know, what, what would you consider people do?
You know, like, like try to get their hands on ACDC and then start crossing it with stuff or,
or where, where would you direct them? Well, you got a couple options, you know,
access some, access some known CBD, CBD cultivars. So you have clonal material in your library,
and then you'll go into a seed stock from CBD Dom stock. So I would, I would stick with Ringo
stock that he's done. They've done some beautiful work. His, his kids are still running his business.
So, you know, work with known lines. And then the problem that you have with CBD that you have to be
aware of is that when you do your predicated work on CBD with, if I pick, I'll give you an example
from THC. So I choose a male and the male tells me it's, you know, it's, it's a month and a half old.
I test it. It says it's 4% THC. It's, you know, 0.1 CBD. It has this ratio. I can pretty much
say that that male is going to be that all the way through adulthood and through flower,
but CBD is kind of weird where sometimes when we identify CBD as kids, they chemically change.
They morph, so to speak through their process and they end up not being the ratio they should have
been from their predicated look. So when you're doing predicated, you use it to mark out liars,
but run the damn thing through all the way. This way you can double check and make sure
everything holds true is what you want. And then once it, once you know that that cutting
holds true all the way through, it does. It doesn't mean that it changes crop to crop.
It just means that when I look at sometimes the kids, I look at a kid, the kid's predicted to be
a genius. Well, it doesn't work out. So you might not want it to breed that kid. You should have
said, okay, this one's going to be a genius. Put a note on him when he's 22. Let's still see if he's
smart and let's see if he can still breed. And you have to be honest about that. And so a lot of
this is trying to get the lines. And I think for a lot of breeders, it's, they say, I want CBD
because they hear the number and they go, Ooh, it's a CBD. And the problem is it's not palatable.
There's no value to it. It's, it's long flowering. It's low yield. You know, what you want is you
want, you know, it's an ideal thing, a good quality. I have a friend that did this in Oregon.
He just really did a beautiful job breeding a CBD, a heavy, a Pakistani, a heavy Pakistani
into the OG lines until he came up with basically, you know, a, a 10, 15 CBD, uh, you know, maybe
eight or nine THC. So he's got a beautiful CBD Dom strain with plenty of THC with that
Mersenne dominant profile so that he thinks he's smoking OG, but he's able to really be a lot more
lucid during his day. You know, that's what you're seeing. You're seeing growers who are
able to say, Whoa, I got you. I need cannabis. That's not going to wipe me out so hard for my
daytime function and CBD to dominant makes you kind of edgy and racy too. So it's really each
individual kind of sorted out. And, and for me, what I, what I'm looking for in CBD lines is,
is the ability for the plant produce a product in flower form. That's quality there.
If it's quality and flower, it's quality all the way through.
Do you mean as far as bag appeal?
Yes. In all forms. I want it to smell good, look good, be good because the bottom line is
that product still, if that product is good there, it's still as good on the other end,
but not vice versa. You want to have a CBD product that can be consumed as flower and not oil
because the tremendous number of cannabis smokers who smoke joints don't like pens.
So therefore they can't smoke CBD because CBD isn't provided to them in flower form
in a form that's quality. So I create it myself so that I can have it at my house. I have it for
people I know because if we want to smoke during the day, but not get blazed, this is the right
product and you want it to be good looking. You want it to be good smoking. It doesn't have the
The problem, Shango, is when someone put the word medical on weed,
the whole concept was diminished. As soon as someone said it's medical,
that means it can look like shit, it can taste like shit, it can grow like shit,
but because it's medical, nothing else. And the truth of the matter is that's marketing.
It all matters. It always matters and it always will matter.
And that's how you have to see it from a plant perspective.
I don't think there's any question that we're going to get there. A lot of people just in
casual conversation will say to me, I don't want this CBD stuff. It all sucks taste-wise.
But we've all been working on hybridizing these flavors of the high THC stuff for decades. We've
been carefully sculpting these flavors. We just got CBD six years ago.
Literally, it's brand new. We have very little. And the problem is that people aren't looking at
it correctly because it's being looked at from a medical perspective only, not from a recreational
usage point of view, where you start to weave the CBD. And it would depend on the terp profile. So
your CBD, THC ratio, totals and profiles would all go into your creation. And I'm telling you,
you're going to get some killer high CBD that's going to come out that's just going to be so
unbelievably enjoyable to smoke. It's just that they're not looking at everyone's going the
extraction so quick because extraction allows you to take commercial and make it into a product.
Extraction cuts craft right out of the loop. Yeah. And while you might be coming from medical
cannabis plants, we all know that there are certain volatile terps that you lose
even your best extraction. Yes. Extractions leave something and take something. The whole plant is
the way to go for the most balanced effect. And we know this from usage. I'm not arguing because
I like one over the other. I use all of them. And I know that when I want to keep myself balanced on
a cannabinoid level, it has to be whole plant flower because extracts just do not give you a
balanced effect over time. Yeah. Right on. Well, Kevin, thank you so much for being on the show
today. Ever since I heard you give just a little four minute taste of this story at Terpestival,
I knew that I wanted this day to come so that we could have you give the long version of the story
and we could get it recorded. So thank you so much for taking some time from your
busy day there at Wonderland to give us this oral history. Oh, and my pleasure,
Shane Goetz. It's been a pleasure to be on Shaping Fire. I've always enjoyed hanging out with you. I
respect the hell out of you. So it was just an honor to be on your show. Oh, thank you, brother.
Kevin Jodry is a long time cannabis cultivator and founder of Wonderland Nursery in Humboldt
County, California. You can find out more at wonderlandnursery.com. You can find more episodes
of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the show at shapingfire.com and on Apple iTunes,
Stitcher, and Google Play. If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it if you'd leave
a positive review of the podcast wherever you download. Your review will help others find the
show so they can enjoy it too. On the Shaping Fire website, you can also subscribe to the weekly
newsletter for insights into the latest cannabis news and product reviews. On the Shaping Fire
website, you will also find transcripts of today's podcast as well. For information on me and where
I'll be speaking, you can check out shangolos.com. Does your company want to reach our national
audience of cannabis enthusiasts? Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire. I've been your host, Shango Los.
