Legal marijuana is not something just for the West Coast anymore.
Cannabis reform is spreading like wildfire now.
Through the election process last week, licensed adult-use marijuana states expanded to include
California, Maine, Massachusetts, and Nevada, on top of the existing Washington, Colorado,
Oregon, and Alaska.
That makes eight states.
Additionally, Arkansas, Florida, Montana, and North Dakota joined the other 25 states
where medical cannabis is now blessed, regulated, and taxed.
Arizona is the only state to have had a marijuana initiative on the ballot this year that failed
to pass.
Luckily, though, while Arizona adult-use didn't pass, they have a pre-existing medical marijuana
law to benefit Arizona patients.
What this all means is that there's going to be a whole lot of cannabis-related rulemaking
at the state level in the next year.
As we have seen from other states already, though, that is likely going to be an exceptionally
messy process.
We learned from Dr. Dominic Corova on the show two weeks ago that even though cannabis
policy transfer from other states that are already legal is becoming more common, many
of the legislators and rulemakers at the state level have zero experience and knowledge of
cannabis and they very likely wish they didn't have to learn about cannabis at all.
Every state has made cannabis legalization way more complex than it needs to be, both
because they are unfamiliar with cannabis and rulemakers are still afraid of cannabis
and think it means violent crime will increase when actually the opposite is true.
So what we are certainly going to see going forward is a patchwork of cannabis laws that
are different from state to state.
With this much rulemaking going on all at once, you can be assured that there will be
some backdoor dealmaking between legislators, law enforcement, business people, and others
who will seek to exert undue influence on how cannabis policy is formed.
And I ask you, who will be watching these rulemakers to ensure that they follow appropriate
laws concerning governance and rulemaking for new law?
No one.
That's right.
There is no one responsible to make sure that bureaucratic regulators are performing their
role in a legal way.
In fact, in Washington state, for example, the liquor and cannabis bore has already been
found guilty of meeting secretly with law enforcement and others, but only after citizens
caught them doing it.
Today's show is about citizen oversight of cannabis law implementation.
We are going to consider some of the ways that lobbyists can try to influence policy,
how regulators have attempted to make rules in the shadows, and we will discuss some citizen
oversight strategies that you can use to help your state regulators stay honest.
My guest today is John Novak, founder of 420Leaks.com.
420Leaks.com is a citizen oversight organization that focuses on cannabis policy in Washington
state.
Their researchers obtain hard-to-find information through public records requests, as well as
daily monitoring of state bills, rulemaking, local ordinances, and news that will have
an effect on cannabis patients, providers, and enthusiasts.
Welcome to the show, John.
Well, thanks, Shango.
It's good to be here.
I'm very appreciative that you asked me to come on.
Looking forward to it.
Well, I know we've been trying to put this together for a while.
I'm glad we finally got a chance to do it.
So, John, a lot of people, they kind of like to have the idea that their state regulators
and legislators are having their best interests at heart, and they like to just assume that
their government officials are following the rules.
But unfortunately, we know that is not always the case.
So, why don't we start by giving a little bit of a context of why 420Leaks is necessary.
From your extensive research, who are some of the other groups interested in influencing
cannabis reform at the state level, and why are they trying to influence it?
That's a good question.
Of course, we have all the local activists who each have their own issues.
A lot of it human rights-based, like the home grows and sharing, descheduling, those
kinds of things.
And of course, we have the business interests who are looking out for their bottom line
and regulating the industry in proper ways and all that kind of stuff.
And then we have other tiers of interested parties.
The biggest ones, I would say, are the state, the agency, lobby firms, and associations.
For instance, the Association of Washington Cities and Counties, they all have their big
lobby group.
Then you have, for instance, the Liquor Control Board, they have their own lobby group.
The Department of Health will have their own lobby group.
Those kinds of groups, that's really what you see down there.
And then you have what I call the hidden persuaders.
They seem to be the ones that are more from Wall Street firms that are trying to come
in and basically run the show.
We don't really see a whole lot of their faces.
You see one or two, but for the most part, you don't even see them at all.
They do a lot of their work behind the scenes.
But the state agencies, those have been the hardest on this, and they seem to have the
most impact as far as regulating.
For instance, zoning stuff and all that kind of stuff.
One of the biggest problems that we hear from those guys is that they are scared of federal
law, they say, and implementing any of this stuff at the state level, they believe, leaves
them open to prosecution.
So that's a lot of the big push that they have.
The other side of it too is they rely on federal funds, federal grants.
Department of Health gets grants for different areas of health care.
Look, Control Board, I'm not sure if they have a federal grant program in place yet.
I've been trying to figure that out.
But that, and the cities and the counties especially are really tied into that.
They receive a lot of federal money.
The question that I'm trying to find out is, is the tax money from 502 enough to offset
that?
I'm not quite sure yet.
But those are the biggest groups that have been down there.
So what I'm gathering here from your answer is that every state is going to have lots
of players that are trying to influence policy.
Some that you're expecting, but then there's a lot of extra folks with priorities that
are kind of in the shadows.
Substance abuse is another group that you see a lot of down there.
Yeah, I guess, and probably law enforcement too.
So putting myself in the seat of the regulator or the legislator who is the target of the
influence and also the target of your research to help keep them honest, I guess it isn't
necessarily that they are trying to be bad actors themselves.
It's just the fact that they're being influenced from all these different directions.
And we need watchdogs in each state who are making sure that folks are not bending or
breaking the rules in their influence.
Is that a pretty fair way to look at it?
Is that the watchdog is just looking to make sure that people are playing by the rules?
Well, very much so.
In our state, though, keeping an eye on the legislators is a little bit harder because
they have exempted themselves from most of the public records.
So about the only way that I can get public records on them is if they were to make a
public statement about a document that they used in order to come up with a policy, something
along those lines.
And then I could ask them, hey, well, I want to see that document.
But other than that, the legislators are pretty much off the boards and you can ask, but they're
not under any kind of requirement to turn over any records.
So kind of one of the ways that I get around that, though, is I'll go to the agency side
and say, I want to see your communications with specific legislators.
Sometimes I get it, sometimes I don't.
It's just a matter of how much information that they were actually willing to put down
on paper and send back and forth between each other.
But as far as keeping tabs on the legislators, one of the better ways is going to the Public
Disclosure Commission website and following where all the campaign contributions are going.
That's a very big part of this as well.
Go ahead.
So the work that you do is obviously very arcane.
Not a lot of people know how to request these documents that you uncover that can show the
corruption or the bending of the rules or whatever you're looking for.
And so let's go step by step, to a certain degree, on how you decide what records you
want.
You're talking about getting these records, but honestly, to a novice like me, I don't
even know how you do that.
I mean, all I'm thinking about is that Freedom of Information Act, and I don't even know
if that's the appropriate rule in this case.
For folks who are seeking to emulate you down the line, kind of just give us a blueprint
of how you get these documents at a state level.
Well, let's start with just 502 in general.
When it passed, the state, the Liquor, now it's called the Liquor and Cannabis Board,
but then it was called the Liquor Control Board.
And each agency, when the legislature passes a bill and puts rulemaking power into the
hands of the state agencies, like was done with 502, then the Liquor Control Board goes
through a process of gathering as much information from various sources, including the public,
normally, and then they will put together a package and then implement the rule.
And in our state, we have an actual RCW that defines how that information has to be maintained
by the agency, and it's called the rulemaking file.
So you can request that full file, and then they're supposed to give you everything that
they have on hand that led them to the decision-making on that specific rule.
Like for instance, the 1,000-foot rule for how close cannabis businesses could be to
a school or a park or something like that.
Well, there was an actual rulemaking process where they had to take input and all that
kind of stuff and document it and keep it on file.
So you can ask for that.
And that's a simple step to take with the agencies, is just asking for their rulemaking file.
Now, in the case of the 502 rulemaking file, we got a lot of information from it originally,
but we started seeing that there was a lot of information that was being left out.
Like meetings with law enforcement, that kind of stuff.
So we kept digging further and asking further, and finally we started getting some of that
information.
So you don't always know what you're going to get, of course, when you ask for it, but
you have to kind of get a general idea of what you're looking for, at least to give
a general idea.
When you say ask for, what does that actually mean?
I mean, is it as simple as sending an email to somebody and asking for it?
I'm assuming that there's like some application you have to fill out or something, isn't there?
Well, there's a couple of different ways you can do it.
You can do it with a handwritten letter and ask for specific documents.
And since we're talking about the Liquor and Cannabis Board, each agency has their own
records division, and they have their own rules set around it.
And there's like a small fee if they have to scan over like hard copy documents into
electronic version, there might be a charge there, or printing and scanning.
So minimum types of charges.
But basically what it is, you go to the Liquor Control Board and on their page, you look
for public records on the side panel, and you go there and then they actually give you
an email address.
I believe it's publicrecords at lcb.wa.gov.
And you just ask, basically ask for what you want.
The way I do it is I start off and I just say public records request in the subject
line of the email.
And then I'll say in the main body of the message, like this is a public records request
for the thousand foot rulemaking file.
I would like these in electronic format if possible.
And basically I sign my name, I give them my phone number and send it off.
So it can be as simple as that, or it can be as more complicated if you're looking,
say for, you know, specific tax disbursements to specific agencies.
So you can go general, you can go very specific.
It just all really depends on what you're looking for.
Wow, that's really interesting.
I'm actually surprised at how easy it actually sounds like it is.
I mean, that's a request that sounds like just how anybody else, anybody could do it.
And also it sounds like there's a certain amount of discretion on the receiver of the
email too, because you're asking for whatever you're asking for.
And that can be, you know, redefined by the person on the receiving side about, you know,
how much scope of work they're going to do to answer your request.
So actually, usually they will.
So for instance, let's say I hit the send button, I sent that request in, then the agency
has five business days from there to respond back to me, to let me know, okay, we got it.
If they are not completely sure of what you're asking, they may ask you to clarify it.
They might restate it in a way they think that you're asking.
So then you have to follow up and make sure, yeah, that sounds good.
Or if it is what you asked for and you feel that they have it right in their head what
you want, then you just, you know, let them go.
But one of the things that you got to keep on top, at least respond back and make sure
that you're actually getting, or they're telling, what they're telling you is what you want.
And then they have to give you a specific time period on approximately how long they
believe it'll take for them to do it.
And so it's a little bit of work, but, you know, in the long run for each individual
one, it really doesn't take a whole lot of time.
But it's, again, keeping tabs on their responses and making sure you respond back the right way.
Right on.
Cool.
We're going to take our first short break and be right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
As a business owner, you are incredibly busy.
In reality, you are responsible for everything your company does.
You have so many responsibilities every single day that often you just don't have the time
to really dig into something as deeply as you'd like.
You know there is more that you could do to reach out to new customers and to encourage
loyalty in the customers you already have.
But you certainly don't have the time and you're not ready to hire someone full-time
for that role either.
For you, I recommend blunt branding.
Blunt branding principles, Kirsten Nelson and Anthony Garcia, are focused on improving
your bottom line.
You know, most marketing firms are excited to make your logo, packaging, and website
very pretty.
But they leave responsibility for improving your bottom line up to you.
They don't want that kind of responsibility.
But that is pretty much the most important part of marketing, right?
Kirsten and Anthony will help you engage new customers, funnel them to your point of sale,
and keep them coming back to you and telling their friends.
No doubt, this is a paid commercial spot, but that does not mean they bought my opinion.
I've worked with blunt branding on three projects now for various clients and every single time
they have done more than they have promised and over-delivered on results.
I love how they generate new revenue and focus on that as the goal instead of just making
me a pretty logo.
Similarly, every friend I've referred them to has come back to thank me.
And that just does not happen every day.
So grab a pen and paper because the website address is coming.
If you want someone to implement marketing programs that feed your bottom line, give
blunt branding a call.
They will share proven techniques to increase your audience and generate sales while using
cutting edge technology in the background that make all of this easy, automatic, and
trackable.
Go to shapingfire.com forward slash blunt branding to find out more.
You can also click the link in our weekly newsletter.
Blunt branding, marketing that makes you money.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose, and our guest this week is John Novak of 420leaks.com.
So John, before the break we were talking about how to get the files targeted to know
what you're looking for and then how to go ahead and put in a request for them.
It actually was surprisingly easy compared to what I thought it was going to look like.
I know that one of the things that you have found is very often you will be asking for
particular documents and they should exist because most states have some version of the
Open Meetings Act where when they meet to talk about future regulations and laws that
they have to document that.
But you found that at least in Washington this wasn't happening and this is something
that people should be looking for to potentially happen at every state.
So why don't you tell us a little bit about that so people know what to look for.
Sure.
One of the things that we found early on was that the Liquor and Cannabis Board were having
secret meetings with law enforcement and they began publishing their calendar of events
and we were seeing that they were having these public meetings in the big cities like Spokane,
Seattle and Yakima.
But then they were also listing that they were having meetings with these different
groups during the day.
And according to our state law if two or more of the board members meet together it becomes
an actual official meeting.
The public needs to be notified and their input needs to be considered and they were
not doing that.
So going through the rulemaking file again seeing they're asking for their calendar of
events and you can kind of get an idea.
Okay well what's being publicized openly and what's not.
And so that's kind of how we started catching them on that.
So you know to say they're having secret meetings I just want to drill down on that a little
bit because you know that could be hyperbole.
Secret seems to suggest some kind of ill will.
Do you think that these were intentionally being hidden or did they just not make no
one put it in the file.
Does it seem like an accidental oversight or does it feel like they were intentionally
trying to keep this out of the file.
Well that's another great part of one of the things you can ask for is the communications
between people.
And so we asked for all communications as well on this specific thing and we started
seeing that the meetings were being set up by the Liquor Control Board staff at the request
of law enforcement and a lot of the concern was the law enforcement wanted to have the
full attention of the Liquor Control Board without having to talk around the general
public.
They just wanted their group, their message.
And that's all well and good if you're having a meeting with an individual board member
but when you put the board together then you're getting into a whole different level of public
integrity there.
And so that was we could see in the communications that that's what they were trying to do.
They did not want the public to be participating to counter any message that they were trying
to get across.
It must be really odd to read those emails that because you know when you write an email
you kind of you're talking to another person personally and so you're speaking to them
in like regular language but they are going into you know a bureaucratic file of documentation.
You probably see some things in those emails which are you know both odd but also kind
of telling like you can start to pull out people's intent if you're reading them in
there, you know if you read all the messages.
Right.
You very much can.
And for whatever reason they continue to write their emails back and forth and well some
of the things that we've got some of them saying basically just you know they don't
For the most part these agencies don't have a lot of good things to say about the cannabis
community.
I'll put it that way.
So how about like phone calls like you know does everything happen via email so that there's
an official paper trail or how would they document phone calls that would take place
like between a you know a lobbyist and a regulator?
Well, that's a whole different side of public records because they go under the public disclosure
commission and I spent about two years studying up on politics and money and all that kind
of stuff before I got involved with actual political action committee stuff because I
wanted to make sure that you know we follow the rules and all that kind of stuff.
So I don't really have complete answers for you on lobby requirements and bills yet but
one of the things that I was somewhat disappointed in finding out was that when lobbyists write
or present bills there really is no requirement that that be disclosed to anyone.
The only thing that is must be disclosed on the lobby side is the if money is being spent
one way or the other.
For instance if the lobbyist were to go and you know take them out to dinner or give them
you know some kind of gift or something along those lines those kinds of things have to be
reported travel expenses all that kind of stuff so but that was really the only way that I found
that you can see what lobbyists are behind what bills is one go down to the public hearings and
see who's you know coming on board with them or to look and see what lobby firms are contributing
to what candidates and and to which the other side of lobbying to is not just candidates that
they give these contributions to they also go to committee caucuses party committees and and
those groups there's no limit on what you can give to those there's a limit on what you can
give to a candidate but so for instance a business lobby firm had about $50,000 and I'd say probably
oh you know like 20,000 of it may have gone out to about 20 different candidates at about a
thousand dollars each and then you'll see big chunks of money being pushed to these caucus or
party committees or then they the parties then distribute from there but the caucus committees
are more issue driven apparently and so there's a lot of wheels that need to be greased by lobby
money in order to get bills passed and that has been both a very eye-opening and very revealing
part of this whole study you know John it's the biggest part that's the biggest puzzle
they'll be there's a lot more pieces you got to put together you know I think a puzzle is actually
a really good example because as I as I sit here and listen to you you know when you were telling
me about the master file that's kept about the deliberations before you know a regulation is
made I was thinking to myself wow it's great that they keep all that stuff at one place it's very
transparent you know I mean yeah we need to watchdog them to make sure that everything goes
in the file but that's really great we can watch you know we can watch how our regulations are made
well then and then you know your your next set of of information was all like oh yeah we can't track
this we can't track that there's a lot of money you know to find out who the lobbyists are working
on something you need to go and see who's in the room I mean and then it's suddenly that like just
this tore up my my conception that that that this was transparent now it suddenly feels very
not transparent and and I can imagine you having to read all of this you know I would think that
most of it is pretty mundane you know emails and communications and then all of a sudden you find
you know a somebody saying something that refers to something that you haven't seen anywhere
and then things start to unravel but you have to like dig forever just to find that this
this doesn't sound very transparent anymore no well yes and no
like the biggest details of course is finding you know which lobbyist wrote this bill which
went to this senator to this committee you know so that's that's the real the legwork they don't
you know it takes a lot more than just sending public requests back and forth you know it does
take a lot of work and it is it can be very time consuming and it's like a whole whole other wing
of activism that really needs its own staff and then you have again back to the agency public
records that's almost again its own staff so it's a it's a lot of work but and in any given
a year or two we also have these state agencies will go crying to the legislators saying that oh
this is costing us way too much way too many man hours to find all these records and we
and so you know it's it's a constant tug of war sounds like it's the the price of a democracy
though when you're doing this research you just must be elated when you find a thread to pull on
though you know if you're gonna if you're gonna spend a couple days trolling or not troll i don't
think that's the right word but anyway digging through a big pile of of documents and then you
find one thing you're like oh here's something that you know could give me cause to make a new
records request because now you can get more specific or somebody referring to an idea or
a meeting that is not in the rest of the file that must be very gratifying at that point because
you're like oh here's something to work with well yeah it takes some a little bit of training in
your mind to to listen a little harder for key keywords well here's a here's an example
there was a study released by department of health and i think in collaboration with a couple other
agencies liquor control board and stuff and they wanted to look at how 502 and all this was
impacting our youth so they came up with a a study that they went out to different high schools to
see you know where how it was affecting the kids and some of the conclusions they came up with
were left me scratching my head so but just by the sheer fact that they did a study and sent
people out makes you realize aha there's a document there there's a there's a list of
questions somewhere that they were asking people so when i saw the the file of it was a basically
what the information that i saw that led me to this was a powerpoint presentation put on by the
department of health that they were going to they were presenting to legislators so i was reading
down through all the slides and i kept coming across these uh you know different study points
and a couple of them uh really had me scratching my head so i was like okay i need to see the study
and where all this information was coming from because one of the things they were claiming was
that the minorities were having a harder problem with it in the schools than the white folks i'm
like this is sounding a little uh i don't want to say racist but you know all the research that i've
seen in the past showed that uh blacks and whites uh used cannabis at a pretty even rate so why they
were saying that this uh black kids in school were having a harder time with it and i you know i
want to know more so i asked for the actual uh study and that i just got that a couple days ago
i haven't had a chance to go through and look at it but despite you know seeing on there they
had a done a study that i knew then okay i can ask for that study yeah right on i follow that
and it makes for some uh pretty detailed reading i'm sure so uh so hey we're gonna take it's it's
you can uh it's it's a good way to put yourself to sleep right on hey it's time to take our
second break so we'll be right back you are listening to shaping fire
look inside this crystal ball with me for a moment i'm looking just a couple months into the future
i'm seeing the future of the shaping fire podcast the show sure has grown i've continued
to interview fascinating cannabis industry luminaries and our audience has gotten huge
it has doubled and redoubled and doubled again there are high fives all around the shaping fire
world headquarters new listeners are subscribing every day and begin to listen to the back catalog
all the great interviews there and that is where the shaping fire audience learns about your company
you were incredibly smart today to become an early adopter and place a commercial in shaping
fire's early episodes if you become an advertiser on the shaping fire podcast now today you are
going to pay a fraction of the cost we'll be asking in just two months and yet all the audience
that listens to our back catalog of interviews will hear about your company again and again
it's a great deal for you pay a small amount now because the show is so new but take advantage of
the huge listening audience we will have forever this crystal ball is not a smoke dream do yourself
a solid and contact us today for rates on podcast and newsletter advertising email hotspot at shapingfire.com
to find out more welcome back you are listening to shaping fire i am your host shango los and our
guest this week is john novak of 420leaks.com so john you know during the show today you have
described you know a lot of detail oriented work a lot of you know kind of pushing against the
bureaucracy um but we know also with important wins of of being able to keep regulators honest
and essentially you know defending the citizenry of the state and the goal you know of course of
the show is to inspire people in other states that are you know just coming online with cannabis
and and starting to normalize and moving towards some kind of legalization to inspire folks to you
know to watch their their own state regulators so you know i got to ask you you know what are some of
the challenges personally to doing this kind of work the personal challenge is uh the hardest one
is just keeping yourself motivated to go through all this boring stuff and that especially when you
get in you know gigabyte after gigabyte of information and that's that's one of the hardest
things to do trying to get other people to help out uh that that's been a struggle uh because you
know it's not the funnest work to do and uh the rewards you know you may have to go weeks if not
months before you see any kind of results so it that's uh it's a good question yeah but you know
obviously you're doing it and you're passionate about it and so you know you've got to know that
it's important i mean somebody's got to watch the government well you know why why for you do you
feel that it's important that that people like you stand up and watch the government to make sure
that they are they are doing things by rule of law well i actually started uh doing uh i would say my
skills on this came actually from doing um due diligence on stock uh for the stock market
and it takes a lot of you know going through and reading all the the company documents and
and figuring out you know where uh money's coming in where it's going out if they actually have a
product and all that kind of stuff so it just takes a lot of going through a lot of
boring boring information but it's it is super important to do if you take investing seriously
investing seriously so that was kind of the training that i had going into this
so and it really kind of started out for me of course i wanted to see where all the laws were
going since i am a patient myself but i also wanted to see how
what kind of environment i would be getting myself into if i decided to enter into the industry
and that was really the biggest push for me of why i wanted to do all this because if i
you know first off we got you know let's let's be honest here this is still against federal law so
there's a that's in and of itself means you gotta so many different areas of law that you got to
make sure your butt's covered on you got to follow not only state law you got to follow what the feds
are doing kind of get an idea of what other states are doing so that attention to detail
and and due diligence is really what gave me my push to do it the benefits of doing it though
are are absolutely wonderful because instead of relying on let's say what the press is telling
you what's going on or what any individual legislator or even any individual activist
might be telling you what's going on when you have the actual documents in front of you
you see what's being said you see what's going on you know you just you have a much better
understanding of the entire situation because you're taking it from the horse's mouth instead
of you know different spins on it and that i think is one of the most valuable parts
and of course the it to a certain degree i wish it was more keeping politicians and
these state agencies honest and the biggest threat that if we don't do this is that they'll
just think that nobody's watching and they can get away with it whatever they want they don't
then they'll take they won't take the full steps to completely document what they're doing
and to the worst extremes of corruption that we've you know you hear about in the news and
unfortunately when i talk to other activists and even some legislators and people in this they say
uh as a whole our country is uh and local government is becoming more corrupt
than uh than more honest these days so that is you know in a lot of ways i i think that
this activism really has more to do with about open government than it does about cannabis
you know this might be kind of a bittersweet question but you know i know you've dedicated
well at least your life right now to this because this is your your main thing but you know how do
you know when you're succeeding because this seems like you are you know you're working on this ocean
trove of information you know how do you how do you know when you're winning well the easiest way
to know that when you're winning is of course you get attention from the press or uh or legislators
and they'll come up and say hey we want to change you know what you what you're seeing there we want
to change that's that's an immediate type of win and uh and that can be very gratifying
uh unfortunately though most of the wins come in ways that you you can kind of see your
information is influencing the public debate even though your name is not specifically mentioned
i see that a lot in the uh let's i won't bring up any um big names but uh some of the bigger
newspapers in this in the area uh absolutely refuse to have to publish my name for 20 leaks
or anything to do with it because they are interested in a multi-billion dollar industry
continuing which i'm all for too but let's you know let's do it honestly here guys
but uh so i i do you see a lot of that though when a bigger story will come out and then you'll
then you'll kind of start hearing about you know the debate let's say for instance on the uh
there was a massive leak where uh the liquor control board accidentally turned over
private information on applicants well some of the the cannabis
uh reporters jumped on that immediately uh but then at the higher level of you know of
you know let's say like through seattle times the um you know the bigger the spokane chronicle or
whatever the bigger newspapers they uh didn't cover that until um the liquor control board
uh actually started sending out letters to people then the big news got in but still
for the most part we weren't we didn't get a lot of credit for that leak but then we started seeing
a bigger um issue being talked about about private about patient privacy and so sometimes
you don't get the credit but you can see that uh your point was made and the debate is beginning
and then so you have to kind of you know a lot of it is you don't you don't get a lot of credit
for some of this stuff but the debate moves forward and that's really the angle that should
be the the bottom line if the debate is moving forward you're winning right on that makes a lot
of sense so let's let's finish up with this last question john so you know if if you know my goal
with the show is that i wanted to be able to reach out to our listeners across the country
and maybe have them hear your story about what you're doing in washington and inspire them to do
that in their own state because you know if it takes your full time to do washington you know
we need at least 49 other people across the country to be doing this so that each state can be covered
so so so some somebody out there is is listening and they're listening to the work that you're doing
and it sounds you know interesting and engaging to them and they're thinking about doing this
in their own state what would you say to them to help inspire them to move forward
you're gonna find this is both the hardest and most but at the same time most rewarding thing
that you'll do you're you'll you're gonna find a lot of a lot of garbage in there
that just you know has no real revel or real no meaning to exactly what it is you're looking for
but you have to keep going one of the things that i that drives me is the human rights angle
that every person out there should have the right to plant a seed and take care of themselves so
when you have a focus like that it kind of narrows down to a degree what specifically
you're going for so and it helps so and the other thing it does is it when you're sending out those
requests it puts those agencies on notice that you're watching them and for the most sometimes
you know they're so big they have so much money and influence they don't really care but
when when you take that information and then make it public and then suddenly they take it a little
more seriously and that's that's what i begin to find that you get not not only do you get
the information that you're looking for in a more complete picture but you also begin to develop
a reputation especially with legislators that while they may not like what you're doing
they know why you're doing it and for the most part they they really don't have much to say
to the negative side on that and being able to inform your fellow activists
of exactly what's going on with these laws and so it helps it helps your group to really define
where the issues you need to focus are a lot of us get caught up in a lot of the extraneous stuff
you know and the red hats versus the blue hats or should we have like six plants versus eight
plants or four and a lot of times you'll get groups that kind of split apart and get trapped
into a lot of that stuff whereas if you you focus on specific issues and you can see where the enemy
or the obstacle is it it becomes easier when you go in with a handful of documents especially when
they're on in their own words and you can say this is why it needs to be fixed and here and and
actually that's another point of the thing is you can find a lot of stuff that's wrong
and they do want to hear some of that but really what they're looking for is okay how do we make
it right but you cannot get to that step of how do I make it right until you have all the
information in front of you and that's the biggest part of why I think this is most important.
John thank you for all your hard work and thank you for being on the show.
Absolutely thank you very much for having me. John Novak is founder of 420 Leaks you can find
out more info at 420leaks.com you can email John directly at 420leaks at gmail.com and you can also
call the activist leak line at 206-915-3450. You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire
podcast and subscribe to the show at shapingfire.com and on Apple iTunes, Stitcher, and Google Play.
If you enjoyed the show we'd really appreciate it if you'd leave a positive review of the podcast
wherever you download. Your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too.
On the Shaping Fire website you can also subscribe to the weekly newsletter for insights into the
latest cannabis news and product reviews. On the Shaping Fire website you will also find transcripts
of today's podcast as well. For information on me and where I will be speaking you can check out
shangolose.com. Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire, I've been your host, Shango Lose.
