The community of cannabis cultivators has always been tight. We had to be. For most
of our lives we were persecuted, and in some jurisdictions we still are. That persecution
meant that we couldn't access many of the botanists we'd like to talk to. And that
meant there were big parts of cannabis cultivation that was kind of in a biological black box.
We couldn't see what was happening inside. All we knew was what we were doing and then
what was coming out the other side. Now though, between the creeping partial legalization
we've got and the internet, we can now access the minds of scientists who support our efforts
to grow magnificent, thriving and medicinal cannabis plants.
Today's one of those episodes where we get to look inside that black box. During today's
episode we will examine the relationship between the cannabis plant and the soil life and get
a better understanding of how they talk to each other and how they work together for
mutual benefit in this intimate relationship.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, cultivation and technique efficiently and
with good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter. We'll send you new podcast
episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox, along with commentary on a
couple of the most important news items from the week and videos too. Don't rely on social
media to let you know when a new episode is published, sign up for the updates and
make sure you don't miss an episode.
Also we are giving away very cool prizes to folks who are signed up to receive the newsletter.
There's nothing else you need to do to win except receive that newsletter, so go to shapingfire.com
to sign up for the newsletter and be entered into this month's and all future newsletter
prize drawings.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I'm your host, Shango Lose. My guest today is
plant biologist, Sarah Lane. Sarah Lane is wrapping up her PhD in plant and cellular
biology at University of Victoria. Her work primarily focuses on root exudates that are
involved in iron uptake in plants and their potential medicinal benefits. Sarah consults
for licensed cannabis cultivators in Canada and is an avid living soil cannabis home grower.
Due to her university research needs, she is also very experienced in fogponics and
hydroponics. Sarah has a wicked large plant collection and is currently designing a specialty
terrarium for growing cloud orchids.
During the first set of today's episode, we will focus on what exudates are, their biological
mechanics and how they interact with microbes and other residents of the rhizosphere. During
the second set, we will talk about the relationship between exudates and fungal networks, signaling
varieties of exudates, and address the challenges of a 24-hour light cycle. We finish up the
third set discussing exudates and salt-based fertilizers, exudates and soilless growing
mediums like coca coir, and the misconception of using unsulfured molasses to replace the
nutrition that exudates provide.
Welcome to Shaping Fire, Sarah.
Hey, it's great to be here. Thanks for having me.
Oh yeah, thank you so much for joining us and sharing your expertise. So let's jump
right in. I think that most people who cultivate cannabis, who have even heard of exudates,
only really know that exudates are something that the cannabis plant gives off and that
the microbes eat. That's pretty much it. It's the plant feeding the microbes and that's
about it. We know that that's actually overly simplistic and misses the big picture. So
why don't we start by getting everybody on the same page and, if you would, explain what
exudates are.
Okay. So exudates are basically all of the different molecules and components that the
plant makes in the roots that are given off to the rhizosphere. So there's a bunch of
stuff inside the plant cells and inside the root that happens. And then exudates are everything
that the plant makes specifically to transport out into the soil. And there's lots of different
types of exudates. They can be sugars, they can be amino acids, they can be specific types
of secondary metabolites which are not used for nutrition, and there's many, many different
functions of them as well.
So just to give us an idea of how many different exudates there are, are we talking about like
there's five buckets or 50 buckets or 100 buckets? How many varieties are there just
in general?
Oh goodness, that's a tough one. There honestly are so many different types of exudates and
we're just scratching the surface of what exudates actually are. Like off the top of
my head, like functionally there's probably like 20 different groups of exudates that
I know of personally, but I think exudates are extremely hard to study because they are
in the soil and the roots. So I think we'll probably keep finding new ones over time.
I get the idea now that this is kind of like asking you how many types of bacteria are
there. There's just like a ton in nature and we're constantly finding more as our technology
gets more sensitive.
So true. Yep, that's definitely the case.
So to help illustrate what some of these exudates are, can you give us like three different
examples of exudates that maybe you particularly like just so that we can kind of wrap our
head around what they do?
Yeah, sure. So I mean the ones that I work with specifically are called phenylpropanoids.
They're actually sort of a group of molecules that come from the process of building up
lignin, but they have lots of different uses. And those include things like some of the
more complicated ones are chlorogenic acid, which is actually found really in high amounts
in coffee. So people might be a little bit more familiar with it. There's also amino
acids that not only are used for protein building, but plants can make special non-protein
amino acids that are really useful in finding out things like fishing out iron out of the
soil and that kind of thing. And then the other one is flavonoids. There's actually
a bunch of different types of flavonoids, which is a big, huge supergroup of different
types of molecules. And they're involved in everything from antioxidant behavior to even
signaling to mycorrhizae and things like that.
All right. So you've mentioned, I think I've pulled out like three different categories
from your examples. There would be like the only ones I was aware of, the nutrition, right?
And then you've mentioned signaling a couple times. And then you sounds like there are
some that actually process like things like nitrogen and things like that. They're like
worker bees. Do all of exudates roughly fall into these three categories or are there many
more categories to what they do?
I think functionally we can kind of bin them, if you want to call it that, into a couple
different groups. There's definitely like interacting with nutrients directly, which
is kind of where my expertise is. There's signaling back and forth, like talking to
bacteria or fungi or that kind of thing where they interact with the microbes and the
microbes interact back. And then there's another big group that are almost like
anti-herbicidal or herbicidal, sorry. And those ones are responsible for sort of clearing
the way for the plant to grow. I'm sure there's more than that, but I think that's kind
of like the big, huge groups.
So I think I have an overly simplistic understanding of the back and forth because the
way I normally think about the relationship with the plant and the microbes and the rest
of the life in the rhizosphere is that during the daytime, the plant will be fed by the
microbes and the rest of the players in the rhizosphere during the day. And then during
the dark period, the plant will then turn around and send the required nutrition back
into the rhizosphere. And so it's like a back and forth, like a tide thing dependent
on whether or not it is day or night cycle for the plant, which is kind of quarterbacking
this back and forth is how I generally think about it. But that may very well be way too
simplistic. So will you kind of explain how it goes back and forth?
Yeah. So I think the basic idea of signaling is a little bit like texting. It's not so
much that the plants are providing nutrition directly to the roots, although in some cases,
or from the roots to the microbes, although in some cases it is. And it's not always that
the microbes are providing nutrition back to the plant. There's a lot of signaling that's
going on. And that's kind of like if you can imagine, you know, being at home and, hey,
can you pick me up some milk from the grocery store? But it could also be like, hey, I've
got cookies when you've got home, when you come home and that kind of thing. So that's
kind of what I mean by signaling. And that signaling happens all day, every day at any
time. So there is some regulation with light interacting. Obviously, the light drives photosynthesis
and that kind of thing. And when the plant is on, it's often needing a lot of different
types of activities like nutrient acquisition. And maybe it's doing some, you know, stress
responses to help against pests or something like that. And a lot of this happens in the
daylight. I don't think we know enough about whether or not it happens in the dark because
the roots are always in the dark, technically. Does that make sense?
Yeah, it does. You know, the way that you described it, this kind of like all these
different microbes and protozoa, and then the plant exudates all kind of calling out
to each other and signaling, you know, pick up milk or I have cookies when you get home.
And if everybody is doing that, I suddenly got this idea of like this cacophony of signals
back and forth and like shopkeepers calling out what's on sale and kind of like some kind
of like big Turkish bazaar and like everybody trying to, you know, get everybody's attention.
Is that a reasonable picture of what's going on?
It's a beautiful picture of what's going on. I really do think that's exactly what's happening
because we often think about it being just the plant and the microbes interacting with each other,
but the microbes interact with each other, too, and with fungi and with different organisms around.
Like it is just a huge web of different organisms talking to each other. And sometimes that is like,
you know, selling your chips on the hot dog stand or whatever. And maybe it is advertising for sale.
It's very, very, very complicated. And it's something that I think we wish we knew more
about. But trying to dissect what each of those components is contributing to the soil life or
even just how the plant is growing in the soil is really complicated. I like that, though.
Yeah. And it's strange, too, because like I've always kind of thought of the soil as,
while a violent place often, you know, pretty calm, actually. Like it's kind of serene in there.
But it's probably because of the level of magnitude. I'm like, I'm living on this human
level of magnitude. But if I could see really closely under a microscope, I'd be seeing all
this activity in the rhizosphere. And so it's only quiet to me because like I can't hear it.
Absolutely. It is very barely controlled chaos down there, let me tell you.
So do we have any technology or any way to gauge the amount of, you know, rambunctious signaling
that's going back and forth? Like there is. Is there any kind of like, you know,
anything that we can put into the soil to gauge signaling that's taking place in the soil?
I think it's pretty complicated, but there's some interesting things that go on. So like,
I guess it depends on what level. So what we're talking about right now is on the chemical level.
And really the way that a lot of people are doing this is either bulk. So they take a big
sample of soil and then measure it for different types of organisms or different types of signals
that they're producing. But then trying to tease that out, we can tell differences like
maybe between different types of soil or different types of communities, different types of plants,
that kind of thing. But I think it'd be really hard to pick out which one is responsible for
exactly which one. And so the other option is to take an individual plant and an individual
organism and see what they do together, just the two of them. And it's one of the real challenges
with like soil ecology or like ecology in general is just trying to pull out. You either have to
treat it as a whole and just accept that you don't understand the individual relationships,
or you have to get in there and try and tease them apart one by one. Does that make sense?
It does. So let's talk a little bit about a couple of these different varieties. So the one
that we've talked about the most so far is the signaling. And so we understand what they're
trying to signal, like I have this type of nutrition or maybe I need this type of nutrition.
How are they doing that? Are they doing that primarily chemically or is it an electrical
charge? Or what is at that very small level, what is the mode of communication?
It is chemical, I mean, for the most part. It is like plants, if we go back to the exudate thing,
like these plants are making these very highly specific molecules that are basically in some
molecules, they're basically in some cases like an invitation. And then those are actually like
taken up by the microbe in question. And that changes what the microbe can make. So it actually
interacts after a long signal in cascade inside the cell, it'll interact on the genome, and then
they'll be able to produce different types of molecules based on that information. And then
that ends up getting made and exuded out by the microbe. And then maybe that's an RSVP response
card back to the plant. And then they can do this back and forth. Or sometimes it might just be like
they actually make a different molecule and that molecule is then transported into the plant cell.
Does that make sense?
Yeah. And it's super cool, actually. I mean, the idea that the signaling exudate kind of like
combines with the microbe and between the two of them, they develop this superpower that it's
the only way that what is necessary is produced. I mean, that's pretty cool. That's a very complex
complex. Yeah.
I think it's awesome. I think it's also important to note, though, that what we're talking about
there is like a pretty symbiotic relationship. And there is going to be some opportunistic stuff too,
because, you know, plants are making stuff that maybe it has one purpose, but the microbes can
use it for something different. So it uses it for something different and produces some other stuff.
And those different types of molecules have like a happy accident. The plant could use some of them
too. Like sometimes it is more like a free bin than it is something that's like really organized.
But yeah, there can be both happening.
All right. I like this idea of invitation microbes too.
All right. So if they are all speaking to each other through subtle chemicals,
for those of us who are, you know, we're adding things to our soil all the time,
you know, this fertilizer or that fertilizer, or, you know, some kind of soil drench with like an
FPJ in it or something. How easy is it for us to disrupt that chemical signaling back and forth
just like, let's say that, you know, I'm talking with a friend in my yard and a plane flies over,
you know, relatively low because I live near an airport and we just have to like stop talking
for a minute and wait for the plane to fly over. Is there anything that we could potentially do
as cultivators that would be so air quotes loud in the rhizosphere that everybody have to talk,
stop talking for a minute because we just dumped something in the soil?
Let's see. I think unless it's water, like probably everything we add is disrupting
things a little bit. It's a bit like getting a shipment, you know, everybody stops to bring in
the delivery kind of thing. I think that is also true of microbes because they're responding to
the, to whatever you've added as well. But I think, I think all of them are going to be disruptive.
I think it's more how long, because like, for example, if you're just adding water or some
nutrients, like depending on how light or how much nutrients you're adding, it might be like
really short term and they can use up those nutrients pretty quickly. And then they're back
to doing whatever. Or maybe it's more long-term and you've really altered the soil chemistry
enough that like maybe something dies off or those kinds of things. I think those are all
things that could really disrupt. And I think, especially with nutrients, because a lot of what
we're talking about is the plant signaling for nutrients or something related to nutrition,
that that's probably one of the things that would turn off signals from a plant. Like they don't
need to get it from the microbe if you're providing it. And I think that that might be something else
that would really, I don't know, that would definitely be a plain overhead situation.
Sure. I want to take one more step along this disruption idea. Specifically with water,
I mean, clearly the soil requires water so that things can have mobility. But sometimes, you know,
a cultivator will just overwater terribly and it can drown lots of varieties of microbes or cause
them to cyst up depending on the variety. Can we drown exudates too to the point where we kind of
wipe out a whole, I don't know, generation of them and the soil then needs to dry out and then the
plant needs to restart? I think, yeah. Like if you're watering to runoff and stuff like that,
there's certainly stuff that's leaching out of the soil. And some things are kept more by the
soil than others. So when we talk about these molecules, a lot of them are charged. And some
of the charged, like the positively charged types of molecules tend to stay in soil better than
negatively charged ones do. So you could definitely flush a lot of things out that way. But I think
the time scale for production of exudates by the plant, it can replenish pretty quickly. It's not
on like the, you know, days, weeks or months sort of situation. Like those cells are making a lot
of stuff really rapidly. And some of the responses can happen within seconds. I don't think it'll be
seconds to make the exudates again, but the idea that they might need to make more of them is a
pretty quick one. So I mean, you might disrupt it like really temporarily. I think the biggest
danger with overwatering is probably damage to the roots or like promoting the growth of
anaerobic bacteria or pathogenic species, that kind of thing. I follow. So that was, we were just
talking about the signaling variety. And so let's talk about the nutrition variety. And it sounds
like some of the signaling ones actually do end up playing a role in getting nutrition for the
plant themselves as well. What's the difference between like that kind of activity and the ones
that we were putting in the nutritive exudates bucket? I think those ones are more direct. So
I mean, everything is happening at like a chemical level. So the chemistry of the molecules can
interact with the chemistry of the soil and just completely bypass the microbes. So for example,
I work with iron. Iron is really hard to get out of the soil. There's lots of it, but it's kind of
like it's locked up like a rock. And so the plants will actually make molecules that can go and
sort of fish it out from the rock and interact directly with iron molecules. And then that is
brought over to the root and it can be taken up that way. Same with things like nitrogen and
phosphorus and things like that. I think there's certainly like either they're making it a more
favorable environment for those ions to just kind of like those molecules to just be available for
uptake or they're actually able to like drag it in. Some plants, those non-protein amino acids that I
was talking about earlier, some plants like grasses will make those and they actually just
kind of pick up the iron like a little basket of eggs and actually bring it inside the cell.
So they can interact certainly with molecules to signal back and forth to tell them to make
other things and bring it in, but they can actually just interact with the nutrients
directly as that molecule and bring it in as well. Does that make sense?
It does. So when cultivators kind of like loosely say, you know, oh, this fertilizer is plant ready
or that fertilizer needs to be processed in the rhizosphere before the plant can take it,
is it these exudates that we're talking about that are doing that work of coming across,
you know, nutrition or minerals or whatever in the soil and the exudates are what are,
you know, breaking it down and putting it into a form that can interact with the actual root zone?
That's certainly part of it. Yeah, for sure. And like one group we haven't talked about is
low molecular weight organic acids, which are like really, really small, basic. That's one that I can
think of off the top of my head. Like citric acids and things like that. Plants can make those and
that will just make it easier to take up. Is that sort of what you were talking about?
Yes. Yeah. Because, you know, most of the time we just talk about that, you know, casually
using like contemporary language and not the science specific language. So to kind of like,
you know, accidentally come across it, it's kind of exciting. It's like, oh,
this is what we're talking about all the time and we don't know what we're talking about. That's great.
And there's definitely like this big component of like when we talk about, especially about living
soils and things like that, there's everything at the end of the day is a salt, even if it's
from an organic material or something like that. It's being broken up into these little tiny ions
that we call salts. And I guess it's just a matter of whether it needs help to get to that state or
whether we're providing it as that state. And anytime we're talking about these exudates helping,
they're basically trying to put it into that form so the plant can take it up.
So then the third bucket we were talking about were, I don't know, for lack of a better term,
I'll say allopathic. They're kind of like, I don't know, almost military. They're where they
go and they are hurting the plant enemies. Is that like the general idea?
Sort of. Yeah. So allelopathic chemicals are these sort of natural herbicides that some and not all
plants make them, but some plants make these types of exudates that basically act as like a
herbicide or fungicide or something like that to clear the way. So it's made by the root,
the roots going through the soil and like leaving this material behind that is really toxic to some
plants. And that kills off neighboring roots and that kind of thing and lets it grow better. And
invasive species are often really good at making these kinds of things. And the plants that are
here already don't have any defense against them. And so it just kills them off. So I know I asked
you that question in kind of like a general way. Have we found cannabis plants making this
particular kind of war making exudate yet? Do we, have we seen that in cannabis? I mean, I know we're
still just learning what cannabis puts out, but have we found that yet? Not to my knowledge.
They're pretty unique situations when this is a thing. Like for example, walnut trees, black walnut
trees, you cannot grow anything under a black walnut tree for a huge radius because that's how
toxic it is. But cannabis, you can plant quite a few plants right next to it. It doesn't seem to do
anything. So if it is, it would be on maybe like, I don't know, maybe it would be antifungal or
something like that. But I don't think it actually has anything like this that would kill off plant
roots like that. That's a great example because that's actually what I was thinking about. I was
thinking about, oh, maybe, maybe this is why some of the companion planting that we put with cannabis
is more successful than others. Maybe the cannabis plant is actually trying to choose its neighbors.
It certainly can. And like all of these root things that we're talking about, like it influences the
soil environment and that environment is going to be hospitable to some other plants and less
hospitable to others. Maybe not because it's directly killing off the plants, but just because
maybe that plant doesn't enjoy those kinds of conditions the same way.
All right. So we talked about the signaling kind and we talked about the allopathic kind,
and we talked about the processing that are going to go and free up nutrition in the soil.
And then I think the last category that we haven't covered are the exudates that
are themselves nutrition. So what kind, tell us a little bit about the exudates that the
plant puts off that is nutrition itself. These ones are kind of complicated because
I guess it depends on what is necessary, but a lot of things that are carbon based,
because carbon is basically what we talk about, like sugars and things like that,
are what end up being used to make energy. So I think that a lot of different types of root
exudates could be nutritious to other organisms, provided they can break them down and use them.
So I think a lot of the metabolites I work with, we think might be getting eaten up by bacteria,
which are like the acids and things like that. Anything that has a sugar attached,
because a lot of these molecules are combinations of these different types of groups.
So you can have an acid that's attached to a sugar, for example, like all of those would be
possible nutrients. Since you brought up carbon, I want to ask you a question. It's kind of a,
I don't know where this might take us is what I want to say is that last night I was talking to
soil biologist Leighton Morrison on the phone about how excited I was about our interview today.
And he's like, oh, exudates are great. They're like liquid carbon. And I wasn't sure what he
meant, but I figured I would ask you about them and say, are exudates like liquid carbon?
A little bit, actually. So a lot of like, there's a huge number of atoms out there and elements,
but the ones that are most common in organic chemistry and life are carbon, oxygen, nitrogen,
phosphorus, hydrogen, and sulfur. And so most of these tiny, like, it's just those six, like,
there's, and obviously there's other things like iron and plants need manganese and magnesium and
all these other different metals. But like a lot of these molecules that we're talking about today
are based off of those six. So when we're talking liquid carbon, like a lot of these molecules have
a carbon skeleton. So they're mostly carbon. And as long as something can break the carbon apart
and use it in their biology, that's food. Does that make sense?
Mm-hmm. I get it. So I want to talk a little bit about the nature of the signaling. I'm curious to
know whether it's more push or pull. When the signaling happens, and perhaps it's both, is it
more like putting out a sign that says, you know, I have cookies for sale. If you want cookies,
come over to me. Or is it more like placing an order where one side of it, either the microbe or
the plant will put out a request to the other side for what they specifically need?
I think it's sort of both. And it really depends on which specific interaction you're talking about.
But I kind of like to think of it more like a conversation. Like there's going to be some
asking questions and like, I need this, but there's also going to be like, I'll give you this
too. And it also happens over multiple cycles. So it's not just like a one message in, one message
back sort of thing. Like these cycles can have multiple signals back and forth. Does that make
sense? Yeah, it does. So where in the plant are the exudates made? Are they made like in one
particular exudate factory? Or is it like made all over the plant in many places?
I think, to be honest, I think it's complicated. I think that our general understanding of where
exudates are produced is usually the root tip, because that's the growing part of the root. And
it's the one that kind of has to be the most responsive to the different things it's encountering
as it's moving through the soil. As far as like where on the root, like, it's, it's going to be
on the surface cells mostly, because they're the ones that are directly next to the rhizosphere,
which makes sense. But I think a lot of different types of molecules and signals to make those
molecules can come from all over the plant too, like different parts of the root can ask for
different things. Different parts of the shoot, like the growing part of the plant that we see
all the time, that can also trigger different things to be made as well. But I think like the
cells right on the outside of the root are the most responsive to that kind of stuff. And it's
different too, because above that growing zone, there might be there's still exudates being
produced, but they might be different because there's different needs if you're already there.
With all the different needs and all the cacophony and how small this is, I can imagine that
there are so many exudates next to each other, next to each other, next to each other, that
they're nearly tripping over each other because there's so much activity happening.
Yeah, a little bit of a soup.
Yeah. So the, are the exudates like stuck where they are, and they they're only mobile if there
is water around? Or do they have some kind of solution for mobility for themselves?
That kind of depends on the chemistry. So like, in general, they're going to be mostly right next
to the root, and then they're just going to kind of diffuse to places where there's less of them.
Same as like if you were to dump a bunch of salt into the glass, eventually the salt would all
dissolve into the water, but they would be most concentrated in the bottom unless you stirred it
up. So it's kind of like that if you imagine the bottom of the glass is like the cell. So it's
being made right at the bottom there, and then kind of diffuses up, and eventually it'll get
pretty far away, but not too far. And then it depends on the type of molecule because
they're mostly water-soluble, but there can be some that are kind of more lipophilic or like
oil-loving that might move differently. They might be more likely to stay next to the cell that's
more like that, and maybe don't travel as far away from the root. Does that make sense?
Yeah, it does. And it doubly makes sense because the theme of all of your answers have been
it's complex and it depends on which one. And I'm starting to realize that most of the
generalizations that we might make about exudates really don't apply to everybody. It's hard to make
generalizations about exudates. So I guess we'll kind of like wrap up this first set with
what is it about exudates that make them be exudates? Because if they all act in different
ways and move in different ways and signal in different ways and do different things,
there's got to be something that they all have in common that makes them exudates. So what is that?
Honestly, it's just location, I think, is like the biggest thing that connects all of them. Because
as you say, there's lots of different functions for them, there's lots of different types,
they have lots of different jobs and interact with different things, but they're all outside
the root. They're all made by the plant specifically for being out in the rhizosphere. And
that's the thing that ends up connecting all of them. So the exudates are created outside of the
root or it's made in the root and then it's shoved out of the root? It's made in the root and shoved
out. Like I was saying earlier, those cells that are right on the surface of the root,
they're making them inside and then packaging them and then sending them out into the rhizosphere.
That kind of reminds me of the endophytic bacteria that we talked about a couple shows back about,
you know, the thing that makes it a bacteria endophytic is that it spends some amount of
its life inside of the plant. And so it goes, you know, it'll go in and out of the plant.
And so perhaps exudates are, you know, things that start in the roots and then they are pushed out.
Does that make sense? I don't know. I'm making it up.
Yep, 100%. Yep, nope, that works for me. That's as good a definition as any.
All right, great. Okay, let's go ahead and take a short break and be right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is plant biologist Sarah Lane.
And you know, without these advertisers, Shaping Fire would not happen. So
please support them and let them know you heard them on Shaping Fire.
Online cannabis seed distributors often seem to be all the same, but Multiverse Beans constantly
works to provide you with cannabis seeds and a buying experience that you won't find elsewhere.
Multiverse Beans works directly with the breeders to secure as many packs of your favorites as
possible so that they have your favorite beans long after others have sold out.
Some shops simply buy breeder minimums, but I get messages all the time from breeders saying
some version of Multiverse asked to buy my entire run.
At multiversebeans.com, you can find rare cannabis seeds from night owl seeds,
including the dark owl sub label, Mephistogenetics, Square One Genetics, Robin Hood seeds, and Ethos
and so many others. Multiverse also initiates projects with breeders to secure exclusive packs
that you simply won't find elsewhere. Multiverse founder Paul Lal sees himself not only as a
curator of the best cannabis seeds available, but also as a collaborator with breeders trying
to bring novel crosses to the market that his customers are asking for. Multiverse Beans also
creates exclusive stickers for their popular seed varieties that are available free only when you
order those seeds from Multiverse. Check out their stickers like the badass recent slap for
Mothman by Gnome Automatics on Instagram at multiversebeans. And finally, the freebies.
As you'd expect, Paul sends quality freebies with every order, and when you spend at least $150,
Multiverse allows you to choose your freebies from their special selections.
You can get a 10% discount off regularly priced items when you use the discount code
shapingfire, all one word, at checkout. Sign up for their mailing list to be eligible for
their monthly seed giveaway worth $250. So go to multiversebeans.com now for a buying experience
you won't get anywhere else. For years, organic cultivators have been looking for a peat moss
replacement. Peat moss has long been the go-to soil amendment for water retention and container
growing, but organic growers are recognizing now that peat moss is an unsustainable resource,
and the mining of peat bogs destroys wetland habitats and releases sequestered carbon.
But peat moss works so well that many have continued to use it. Now there is finally a
revolutionary replacement for peat moss that provides better benefits while being a sustainable
choice. Pit moss sounds and acts like peat moss, but instead of being mined from fragile ecosystems,
is actually made from upcycled organic paper and cardboard headed for landfills. Pit moss
is excellent at retaining water in your substrate and creating air pockets and tiny living
environments for microbes. Pit moss instantly increases aeration, nutrient absorption,
and water conservation too. Carefully and locally sourced, pit moss is the result of decades-long
research into the use of recycled paper fibers. Pit moss is lightweight and easy to use, and pit
moss is inert so it won't change your pH. Available in a range of preparations including a nutrient
enhanced blend and an organic soil conditioner with no added nutrients, pit moss is also available
as an animal bedding for horses, chickens, and small animals. You can save 15% with the discount code
SHAPINGFIRE, one word, no caps, when shopping on pitmoss.com. So go to pitmoss.com now to learn more.
That's P-I-T-T-M-O-S-S dot com. Growing healthier, stronger, more sustainable plants. Pit moss.
One of the reasons why no-till cannabis growing is so valued by farmers is because the mycelium
networks in the soil remain established from year to year. And we know these fungal networks are
essential because they are the nutrient superhighways that extend far and wide in the substrate to feed
your plants. The trouble with growing in new living soils or blended cocoa substrates is that
it takes most of the plant's life just to create these mycelium highways. Dinomyco endomycorrhizal
fungi inoculant reduces that time and gets your plant eating a wider array of nutrients faster.
And it's three times the concentration of the other popular brand in the US at 900 propagules
per gram of two fungal species selected specifically for cannabis cultivation.
Dinomyco is the result of 30 years of research and trials at the Volcani
Agriculture Research Institute in Israel. It has also been vigorously trialed by cannabis
and food growers across the US. Dinomyco is now available at grow shops and on Amazon in the
United States. I love using Dinomyco to both speed up the growth of the mycelium networks in the soil
but also as a biostimulant to make clone cuttings more virile. You can see side-by-sides showing the
comparative growth on their Instagram at Dinomyco. If you demand reliable growing results and
appreciate the importance of an active root zone in creating a thriving plant, I encourage you to
check out Dinomyco.com and use the store locator to find out where you can get yours. That's d-y-n-o-m-y-c-o.com
Shaping Fire listeners can get 10% off any size of Dinomyco on Amazon or Dinomyco.com by using
the discount code shapingfire, one word, no caps. Whether you are starting with new beds or pots or
if you want to add some zing to tired soil, choose Dinomyco to maximize your plant's potential.
Dinomyco, endomycorrhizal, inoculant. Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire. I am
your host, Shango Lose, and my guest today is plant biologist, Sarah Lane. So during the first set,
we talked a lot about exudate mechanics and what they are so that we could get an idea of,
get our heads wrapped around this interesting chemical that's in the rhizosphere and what it
does. And so during this set, we're going to focus more on what they actually do and how this,
I don't know, cacophony or symphony takes place. So how specific are the signals for either
nutrition or the signals telling exudates to go out and mine some manganese or something?
Are there specific exudates for all of these processes or is it like when you tell somebody,
hey, would you pick up bread, but I don't tell them what kind of bread. I'm trying to get an
idea of how specific the requests are. Oh, another theme of the day. It's
complicated. I think that in some cases it's extremely specific, especially when we're talking
about symbiotic relationships like rhizobium or in legumes or mycorrhizae and that kind of thing.
It's like very specific to the point where it's species specific. It's a specific molecule that
has one job and that is to go and signal to mycorrhizae fungal interactions and things
like that. So it can be that specific, but there's also some that have sort of more of a, like a broad,
like it has multiple different types of chemistry. It might be maybe a more complicated molecule
where one end does one thing and the other end does another thing. And sometimes the plant can
make multiple things to do the same job. So some of the tasks that the exudates do, especially the
ones that are sent out for nutrition and probably similarly the ones that are sent out for
like inert things like manganese or iron or whatever, those jobs sound familiar or similar
to the role of mycorrhizae. And we often talk on this show about how the fungal networks
are like super highways that will go out and source these different nutritions that are needed
by the plant and then kind of bring them back. And there's this relationship there. I would think that
since this task is very similar to the exudates or at least how they're described, there's probably
a lot of exudate interaction with the fungal network. Is this true? Yeah, I would say that's
true. So I think there's two components. One, the exudates can do a similar job, but on a much
more tiny scale because they don't travel very far. And so if they need to go farther out for
the nutrients, then the exudates would interact with the mycorrhizae directly. And a lot of that
is basically initiating infection. It sounds weird to say infection when I don't mean pathogenic,
but essentially the plant has to invite the mycorrhizae, especially endomycorrhizae,
to infect it. And that's a very specific signal that's sent out to interact with that fungus
to allow it to come and join the plant. And it has to be in a situation where the plant would
need that. So I think if the plant is deficient in phosphorus, for example, it might interact
with mycorrhizae more. Whereas if it's not that deficient or if there's plenty of phosphorus next
to the root, maybe it interacts with that less and the exudates that it makes for itself will
do the job. Does that make sense? Yeah, that does make sense. Is it possible to overtax the exudate
system? So if the plant is making these exudates and everything that the plant does takes some
amount of energy or life force or effort, depending on what level we're looking at.
If the exudates are so busy, can the exudates be working so hard that it makes the plant
less thriving? I think that kind of depends. So I think if the plant is unhealthy, that might be
true. We often talk about things like a carbon budget, though. So there's a certain amount of
carbon that a given amount of plant can fix, and there's a given amount of nutrients it can take up
just based on its biology and physiology. And so carbon budgeting depends on that. That means that
different parts of the plant will be allocating carbon to different places. So if, for example,
it's suffering a massive thrip wave, it will be busy making carbon-containing compounds to deal
with that, and it might make less exudates. But if it's perfectly healthy, all things considered,
it will make what it needs, and it'll make the amount that it needs. Does that make sense?
Yeah, it does. So what I was going to ask was that, are there things that we can do that would
stress the exudate process and signaling exchange? And then you threw the thrip thing on the end. So
perhaps the answer to the question that I was going to ask is, anything that stresses the plant
is going to call on the exudates to have to do more work, so don't stress your plant.
Basically, yeah. Or it's going to divert the resources of the plant elsewhere.
I think there's a certain amount—we call it basal or base—there's a certain amount of maintenance
level things that the plant makes everywhere, but it will respond to different stresses by taking
as much carbon and nutrients as it can to whatever that is. So if it's happy and healthy,
then it can pump up those base levels and everything's great. If it's really under
stress somewhere else, it might take what it would normally make in the roots, it might take
some carbon from that and send it somewhere else. And that might mean that you have—there's still
probably going to be some exudates there, but it'll probably mean that there's less of them.
Does that make sense?
Yeah, it does. And so for somebody who's listening to what you're saying, like me,
and my brain goes to, what can I do to not stress out the exudate creation?
That's nice that I'm thinking about that level of my plant, but really,
that's not really necessary. I really should go up a level of magnitude and think about not doing
things that stress out the plant and then just let the exudates manage themselves.
Essentially, yeah. I think if you take care of your soil and you take care of your plant and
they're both in good shape, then you shouldn't have to worry about it for sure. I mean, making
sure that your soil is healthy is definitely a big part of it. Making sure the plant isn't being,
as I said, mauled by thrips or something like that is also helpful. I don't think anybody wants that
anyway, but those kinds of things, making sure it's getting enough water, it's not overwatered,
all those things that we generally try and make sure our plants have anyway. If your plant is
healthy, there's not really anything extra that you need to do. I think compost teas are one thing
that you can do to help with soil life and things like that. And that might help with the exudate
situation, but most of the time it's really out of your control.
Well, it's kind of nice to have something that we're learning about this process, but it isn't
another thing that we have to technically worry about, right? If you do your regular living soil
kind of stuff, this will take care of itself, which is great because we already have enough
to worry about, right? We'll talk more about compost tea a little bit later, but I want to
wade into a pretty fierce debate in the cannabis world. I'm a pretty heavy participant in it, and
I have been looking for someone like you to weigh in on it. I'm going to pull you into this debate,
and this is on 24-hour light cycle. The debate is generally about,
does the 24-hour light cycle, is it best for the plant or does it starve the soil from nutrients?
And the idea kind of goes like this. Some growers like to use 24-hours light because it causes the
plant to grow more quickly, and you can either grow a bigger, higher-yielding plant,
during its regular life cycle because it's just getting more light, or you can actually shorten
the cycle by using more light, which allows you to perhaps get in another growing cycle over the
year. And so, a lot of people use 24-hours of light. Now, the flip of it, which happens to be
where I stand, is that no, 24-hours of light indoors is not going to create the best plant
because while it makes it grow faster, you're not allowing the back and forth of the light phase
and the dark phase. Both phases are necessary so that the plant can grow faster, and you're not
exudating and signaling and all the processes that happen when the plant is awake with the light.
It needs to have some dark time so the contrasting signaling and exudates can happen. So,
you need both so all varieties of exudate signaling can happen, and all of the varieties of nutrition
and those things can go back and forth. So, I have a feeling that the answer is probably
somewhere in the middle, but specifically to this 24-hours of light question, how does 24-hours of
light impact this relationship between the plant and the rhizosphere as far as the exudates playing
a role? Oof, that is a spicy debate, isn't it? Yeah. I think, again, to the theme of the day,
it's complicated. I have not ever seen anybody be able to, because of the complexity of the
rhizosphere and all the stuff that's going on there, I haven't seen anybody actually be able
to put this into a scientific study where we're able to say definitively, if you give a plant 24
hours of light, the exudates suffer. So, it's really in the middle, I think. There's a couple
different things that I can think of off the top of my head, if it's okay if I ramble for a second.
No, please. We want to get into this, so go ahead.
Perfect. Okay. So, light cycles. Light cycles, I think lots of things are turned on by the plant
rather than off when light is on, and that's because light is driving water transport and
nutrient uptake, and it's also driving photosynthesis. So, I think that too much dark
is as bad as too much light is, if that makes sense. Like, you're seeing the growth and the
yield increase because the plant is doing a lot of stuff during that time. And there is a circadian
clock in plants where there are different things that happen in the daytime and in the night time,
and they actually are different for the root part and the shoot part, so they actually operate on
different clocks. But they do talk to each other, so I guess where I'm going with this is that
there is a circadian rhythm, but we don't know enough about it to be able to say that having
light on the top of the plant is going to affect the roots in the way that I think this debate
kind of goes. Because if you think about it, the roots are always in the dark. They're never in
the light. They're not, like, there might be a small amount of light that makes it to the root,
but not enough that it should matter. But they can still sense it a little bit. Man,
that is a very deep topic.
Yeah, it is. Maybe I'm thinking too top-down about this because even though the light doesn't
specifically reach the roots, right, during the light mode, I think of it as the plant is giving
commands through the roots. And so even though the roots aren't lit up, the roots are responding
to needs and commands from a plant that is actively photosynthesizing. And then in the dark
cycle, those commands and needs of the photosynthesis are no longer taking place. And so
I imagine that the roles and the tasks of the root zone change when the plant is changing modes from
photosynthesizing to the processing of nutrients that it does during the dark.
Exactly. And I think the key word there is change. Because if they take up a bunch of nutrients
during the daytime, then a lot of those exudates that are helping with nutrient acquisition
should be active. They're actively fishing out the different components that it needs and putting
it into the plant so the plant can continue to grow. And those would change if the light is gone.
And they do have, like, we even know from those green potatoes, roots themselves can sense light,
both outside sources of light, but also the inside sources that we were just talking about,
like the light that the plant above is sensing is also, they notify the roots that they need stuff.
I think this next question is the seal the deal question that I've been looking for.
So if the root zone is doing different tasks when the plant is experiencing light,
because the plant is asking for things involved with photosynthesis production during the day,
those types of tasks, and then when the light is gone, the root zone changes to different sets of
tasks, that would seem to suggest to me that it needs a dark period so those dark period tasks
can happen. So maybe I'm right, but for the wrong reason, for a reason I didn't realize, I thought
that during the dark, the exudates would stop. And maybe that's not it, because exudates happen
around the clock. Maybe it's that the exudate and signaling that happens when the plant above
is experiencing dark, those differentiated tasks need to have an opportunity to happen
too to have a thriving plant. Yeah? Yeah, I think that could be a reasonable way to go about it. I
think that there's also two things, I guess there is dark reactions and they're like evening onset
types of things that change in the plant that are responding to a lessening of light,
at least when we're not talking about like growing light, when we have actually like changes in light
over the daytime as well, you know, your plant on the balcony or whatever. But there's also light
independent reactions that tend to happen kind of at any time. And what I mean by that is like
photosynthesis is light driven, like you absolutely have to have light for that whole series of
chemistry reactions to happen. Whereas the like, other types of reactions don't need light like
that. So they might be happening 24 seven. What I really think for my own personal opinion,
definitely an opinion, is that a little bit of darkness helps because one thing that light is,
is a stressor. It creates all these like fast happening reactions. It's quite powerful. It can
make really reactive molecules that if they're present in too much, they can damage the plant
and those kinds of things. So I think having 24 hours of light constantly would, yeah, maybe mean
that you don't have the downtime that you need to take care of any kind of damage that's coming from
light and that kind of stuff. So for, I guess my, my weigh in on this would be like a little bit of
dark is helpful, I think. Does that make sense? Yeah, it does. And I'm grateful to hear it.
So this idea that there can be too much light is interesting because, you know, most of us or
folks who grow indoors anyway, you know, while I've been historically an outdoor grower, I've
been dabbling in indoor just to learn new stuff. And most of the time, cultivators are looking to
blast the plants with as much light as is possible without bleaching or burning the plant.
And what I'm hearing from you is that there really is a top end of how much light we necessarily want
to give the plant because there is too much. There's a top level. Yes, there is. I think,
especially with like, I have most of my experiences is growing inside. And I think there's different
things to think about because you can definitely have too much light inside, but it's not like an
overall amount of light. There's all these focal lengths that come with bulbs and it kind of,
it's like shining a laser, you know, the magnifying glass on the, you know, something flammable and
the sun kind of thing. Like it focuses all the light from the bulb to a single point. And if
you're growing in that point, it's really strong, but like just for that little area and that's too
much light, but there's so much sun out there. I don't think any indoor bulb at this point has ever
gotten to the point where it can compete with the sun. It's just too dim. The spectrum isn't strong
enough. And a lot of the damaging wavelengths that we think of with light, like UVB or C
are just not present in the same quantity, unless it's like, you know, a UVC light or something like
that. Does that make sense? There's too much point light and then there's too much general light.
Yeah. I was making an overgeneralization about the too much light as if it was all sunlight,
but that's true. Like all, you know, no matter what kind of bulb we are talking about,
um, it is, it is some degree less than sunshine. And so that's probably those,
those, that gap between sunshine and whatever the personality of the bulb is, that's probably
where the hitch in the giddy up is right. Is, is somewhere in what the bulb is lacking when
compared to the sun. Yeah. So I think in indoors, like most of the light stress that I've seen is
like you turn the lights on right after you spray something on the plants and you get some like lens
burning where the light's just kind of magnified and focused at a point. So you get like little
point burns outside. You can definitely see a lot more types of light damage and stress because it's
so bright out. And if it's hot to like the plant just has a really hard time managing that level
of light in, in that those poor little photo systems get a little stressed. When, when we
talked on the phone the other day, kind of preparing for this discussion, um, you used a term
that I really liked and I don't know if it's, if it's, if it's a scientific term or if it's just
something that you were using to describe to me, because you, you, you use such fantastic examples,
but you use this phrase, uh, free living microbes. And, and, and I remember talking to you, I remember
like, oh, wow, I never, I never really thought about microbes that were in the soil, but weren't
really interacting with the plant. Would you just talk about free living microbes for a moment?
Absolutely. So essentially when we think about ecology and like what's happening in the, in the
soil, there's, we definitely talk a lot about microbes that interact with the plant, but
there's a couple of different levels they can do that. There's symbiosis where they need each other.
And then there's kind of like opportunistic sort of interactions where they don't. So when I talk
about free living microbes, um, we generally use that term to mean things that kind of, that,
that are just, they're in the soil too. They don't have to be next to a plant. They don't,
like, if you remove the plant, they go on living, they, they do their thing and, and they, they,
it's not the same. And if anything, like maybe the plant needs them more than they need it,
if that makes sense. But if they're free living, they, they can complete their entire life cycle,
um, without a plant, if that makes sense. So, so that also brings up an interesting
question about the opposite. So, so you said, oh, there are some of these microbes that,
that wouldn't exist without the plant. Um, is, is this one of the reasons why it is,
it is so helpful to the cannabis plant to have other companion plants around because, uh, these,
these other plants are, are helping support these, these, uh, free living microbes. And it just makes
the entire rhizosphere more complex and more thriving and more abundant.
Oh, I'm sure that's true. Yeah. Because like cover plants, for example,
essentially what they're trying to do, uh, is, is improve the soil life. And that happens either
through, uh, like providing a matrix, like all those roots provide basically housing in a lot
of ways, like a little scaffold for different things to live on and in and under. Um, but it
also might help with, for example, maintaining humidity longer. Um, so that if there's microbes
in the soil that prefer to be wet all the time and they don't like drying out, then you might
have that layer is, is happier because there's a plant there keeping the moisture locked in.
Um, maybe they don't like a lot of light and they're kind of shading the surface of the soil
a little bit. So maybe the fungus can get a little bit more close to the surface or something like
that. Like I I'm sure there's dozens of different things that a companion plant. And we also plant,
like, uh, I personally plant a clover because it tends to also, it has an interesting relationship
with bacteria that actually lets it take on and fix more nitrogen than a lot of other plants do.
But it also brings the benefit of having that nitrogen fixing relationship with these bacteria
that also benefit plants around it. So the, the cannabis plant itself doesn't do this,
but the fact that there's a plant near it that does improves the nutrient nutrients in the soil.
Um, one of my favorite reasons and the, and the first reason I started companion planting, um,
uh, for my cannabis is I had a, I earlier in, in my cultivation history, I had a tendency to water
incorrectly. I was doing, uh, too much, not often enough. So I needed to water less more often,
but less. And, um, I had a tendency to get a hydrophobic soil and, and for folks who aren't
familiar with that, that means that the top of your soil container, um, gets kind of hard.
And then when you go and you, you hand water, the water just kind of slides off and goes down
the side instead of actually, um, soaking into the soil. And this happened to me all the time. And,
um, I eventually learned, uh, during the shaping fire water and watering episode that
if you use a, um, a, a companion plant, or, or in this case, what we consider a cover crop, um,
with that has lots of roots, say for example, a clover or, or, you know, some types of grasses,
um, they not only can provide like the, the, the, the, the canopy, if you will, to create this
little moisture vapor area between the tops of its leaves and the soil. So the soil just generally
stays, uh, more moist, but also I was going for the fact that all of these roots that go down
into the soil, all are providing like small tunnels for the water to actually go into the
soil itself. And, uh, you know, I actually solved my poor watering just by adding, um, a, a, a
multiple, uh, root, uh, plant, and then that, that problem just went away.
Yep. That's, and, and the other wonderful thing that you're doing is you're also introducing
different types of exudates, which improves your, your soil life. Um, so then you're just getting,
it's just more all the way around.
So, so are there, are we aware of any, um, you know, either, either companion plants in cannabis?
Of course we use these, we use the idea of companion plants to often be the idea of like
a bigger plant that's we're planting nearby, like a, you know, like a cabbage or potatoes
underneath it or whatever. And then, and then we kind of use the term cover crop, even though we,
most of us in cannabis use that term, not how it's traditionally used to talk about, um, lower
plants that there's a lot of them. Um, I'm kind of backing into this question, but what I want to
ask you is, um, are there plants that you are aware of that share, um, exudate flavors,
complimentary exudate flavors with cannabis plants that we should grow about can around our cannabis
plants simply because they increase the vibrancy of the kinds of nutrition our cannabis plant is
going to want thus suggesting, Oh, you should grow these plants because it too will attract
the kinds of nutrition and make it more buffet style for your cannabis plant.
Ooh, I think that the, the honest answer to that one is I don't think we're anywhere near
that level of detail in the exudate, uh, scientific realm. Like even just to identify
exudates is super challenging because you can't, you can't even grow them in soil to be able to
collect them. Um, so all of my experiments, for example, are done in a fog, Ponic setup that I
made. Um, so that I can actually access the roots without the soil because of course, otherwise you
capture all the exudates from all the bacteria too. Um, so I don't think that we could get that,
that specific, but I do know that they've been doing a lot of interesting research with, um,
with crops and companion plants and crops. And the running theme there is usually, um, something
that fixes nitrogen, um, really helps because it brings in not only the, the nitrogen fixing aspect,
which is usually the limiting factor in plant growth. Um, but it also brings all of its,
its symbiotic bacteria with it. But I think as long as you, as long as you have, uh, a cover crop,
as, as we were just talking about, that's improving your soil texture or soil, um, health in general,
I think that you're good. And so for me, like the, the anecdotal answer would be something like,
we plant, uh, clover partly for the nitrogen fixing. Um, but we also plant things like basil
or, um, marigolds that can act like trap plants to kind of give us a sense of, of whether or not
we have pest things to worry about. Um, and that kind of thing, or anything that helps like
pollinators come in and that kind of thing. Cause that usually, I don't know, more life is better
usually. Yeah. I follow that. You know, this, the, the example that you gave, um, I had not
really considered how difficult your research must be because I figured there was just some
way for you to, you know, grab the exudates, you know, scrape them off, scrape, pull up a plant
and scrape some off the roots, you know, that were in soil. But, but that's right. There's all
everybody else who's in there too, especially the bacteria, they're all laying out exudates too.
And so it's just like a mess and you can't tease them out. And so you're using this fog ponic
system. So the, so the roots are just dangling and there's not soil life interacting with it.
So in an odd way, you're, you're like an exudate rancher. Like you've got to, you've got to,
you've got to do this fog ponits so that you can collect them first.
Yep. That's correct. Yeah. We have other couple other ways, but they're all like really,
they're all complicated. Um, you can do sterile culture, like, um, tissue culture. Um, but then
the necessity of that is you have to have a plant that you can grow in tissue culture.
And if I was working with, with, um, cannabis, I think it would be easier because it does grow in
tissue culture, uh, which would be nice. And then you can just sample the media and, and extract the
meat, the exudates from the media. Um, but there's lots and lots of plants out there that don't like
tissue culture that won't grow in a little tiny box, um, or, or trees, some of which I'm working
with right now that, that just defy, defy hydroponics in general. So yeah,
you got to get clever about it for sure. And it is very much like ranching
right on. All right, cool. Um, so let's go ahead and take our second break during the third set,
stick with us because we're going to be talking about, um, uh, salt-based nutrients and exudates
hydroponics and exudates and unsulfured molasses in an exudate. So come on back. Um, you are
listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is plant biologist, Sarah Lane.
As cannabis regulations become more demanding and consumers become more educated, it is
increasingly important to avoid the use of chemical pesticides when cultivating cannabis.
Beneficial insects have been used for decades by the greenhouse vegetable and ornamental plant
industry. And today many cannabis cultivators are moving from sprays and chemicals to beneficial
insects. COPERT has the beneficial insects, mites and nematodes, microbials, sticky cards,
and air distribution units you need to partner with nature to defend your garden.
Whether you manage acres of canopy or have a simple grow tent in your home,
COPERT is ready to help answer your questions and help you transition away from chemical sprays
towards clean and natural solutions. Since 1967, COPERT has assisted growers in identifying pests
and devising reliable solutions while providing healthy insects and mites that will protect your
yield. Since the 1990s, COPERT has been a leader in cannabis pest and disease control worldwide
and have highly trained consultants to assist you in Canada and the United States from coast to
coast. With their global network of grower support, COPERT can help. Visit copert.com,
choose your country and get detailed information. That's copert.com. For the most up-to-date
cannabis-related biological control information, you can also check their Instagram at copertcanada.
You know getting away from pesticides is good for health and good for business,
and COPERT is ready to help. Visit copert.com today. Once you've discovered the benefits of
using cannabis, it's a very small step to start making your own edibles, gummies, lotions,
tinctures and concentrated oils at home. Magical Butter has been helping cannabis consumers become
self-sufficient for over a decade. With the easy-to-use Magical Butter countertop botanical
extractor, you can create high-quality cannabis products to your exact specifications at a
fraction of the cost of store-bought edibles. I talk a lot on this show about the importance of
home-growing so you don't have to rely on others to feel healthy. Well, the Magical Butter machine
can empower your personal health by putting you in control of how you use cannabis in your daily
life. I've been making my own butters and oils on the stove for years, and I much prefer the
ease of using the Magical Butter machine. I just set it and walk away. With the simple touch of a
button, the Magical Butter machine grinds, heats, stirs and steeps your herbal extract, all at the
correct time interval and temperature for the perfect infusion every time. As a result, you
achieve your desired infusion easily, safely and consistently. Check out the Magical Butter Instagram
to see the machine in action. And don't feel like you have to go it alone. There is a huge community
on Facebook called Magical Butter Users United, sharing recipes and best practices so you can learn
at your own pace from others who are already doing it successfully. Now is the time to get your own
Magical Butter machine and save money while enjoying cannabis. Use the discount code
SHAPINGFIRE, one word, no caps, to get 10% off. Visit MagicalButter.com today.
After you've caught up on the latest Shaping Fire episodes, do you sometimes wish there was more
cannabis education available to learn? Well, we got you. Shaping Fire has a fabulous YouTube channel
with content not found on the podcast. When I attend conventions to speak or moderate panels,
I always record them and bring the content home for you to watch. The Shango Los YouTube channel
has world-class speakers including Zoe Sigmundslecher, Understanding Your Endocannabinoid
System, Kevin Jodry of Wonderland Nursery, talking about breeding cannabis for the best terpene
profile, Frenchy Canoli's Lost Art of the Hashishin presentation, Nicholas Mahmoud on regenerative and
polyculture cannabis growing, Dr. Sunil Agarwal on the history of cannabis medicine around the world,
Eric Vlosky and Josh Rutherford on solventless extraction, and Jeff Lowenfels on the soil food
web. There are several presentations from Dr. Ethan Russo on terpenes and the endocannabinoid
system too. While there, be sure to check out the three 10-part Shaping Fire session series,
one with Kevin Jodry, one with Dr. Ethan Russo, and one with Jeff Lowenfels,
and even my own presentations on how to approach finding your dream job in cannabis
and why we choose cannabis business even though the risks are so high. As of today, there's over
200 videos that you can check out for free. So go to youtube.com forward slash shangolos or click
on the link in the newsletter. Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire and I am your host,
Shangolos, and my guest today is plant biologist, Sarah Lane. So let's talk about a couple of the
applications of exudates with common situations that we deal with as cannabis cultivators.
And the first one I want to talk about with you, Sarah, is salt-based nutrients. So,
you know, on this show, we very specifically support living soil, a biomimicry of the natural
world, and are not big fans of salt-based nutrients generally. But I always know I need to give them a
fair shake when it comes to science because that's really what we're listening to is the science.
Not my own biases. So I'm curious to know what kind of a relationship that using, you know,
bottled salt-based nutrients has on the exudates and their ability to communicate and the community,
I guess. I think that's, I think most of the time when we're talking salt-based nutrients,
like it doesn't really go very well in living soil, which is my preferred method of growing too.
So we're on the same page there, I think. With salt-based nutrients, there's sort of two things
that happen. One is like we were talking about earlier, it can really disrupt the signaling,
or at least that's my theory, because you're introducing a huge amount of nutrients to the
plant that it would have been making all these wonderful little exudates to try and tease out
from, as we were saying earlier, microbes or the soil itself, and you're just flooding it.
So I think that it would pretty significantly disrupt the exudate type, at least, of what's
being produced. The other thing it does is it really kind of messes around with the chemistry
of the soil. So like if you're only feeding salt-based nutrients, you end up with salt buildup
and stuff like that, and that can happen in a living soil system too. And usually those conditions
aren't really conducive to microbial life or root health, and you end up just getting a lot of
compounding problems. So it's less about the salt-based nutrients somehow masking the chemical
signatures or anything, it's just that the people who are normally giving off the exudates and
receiving the exudates, they're generally just not there. Yeah, I think the plant, if it's got
all the nutrients it needs, it's going to put its resources elsewhere. And I think if you're
compromising the soil life at all, then a lot of that signaling would be, as we were saying earlier,
probably dampened, would be my guess. Dampened, that's a good word. A lot of people are playing
with soilless mediums that are increasingly more and more cocoa-based, cocoa coir, to the point
that some folks are just like, they don't have soil in their substrate, right? It's not really
hydroponic, but it's just cocoa and its nutrients. And I'm curious if these types of cocoa and
soilless mediums have any impact on the signaling capacity of these exudates. I guess what I'm
asking is, is the soil component key to the ability of the exudates to be able to do their job?
That's actually a really good question, and I was just thinking about that because of what your
previous question was. There are circumstances, so I think the real problem I have with salt
baked nutrients is if it's in combination with living soil, because in living soil,
you're relying on this microbial life to help provide nutrients, and it just gets all out of
whack. But for example, in my research, I have to use salt-based nutrients because I need a very
defined set of nutrients to be able to repeat my experiments. And in that case, with the
phogponics and that kind of thing, it's not necessarily like the exudates are going away,
it's just that the types of exudates that I'm looking at are nutrient-based and not microbial
based, so I don't notice a difference. And in that case, I think in cocoa or peat or something
like that, as long as you're not relying on the bacteria or fungus that are present to assist you
in the nutrients, it wouldn't make as much of a difference. I think it would change the expression
of the exudates, though. The types of exudates that are produced would be different. Does that
make sense? Because you're still going to be producing them. And it's really interesting
for you as a living soil cultivator at home, but needing to use salts in the lab,
it puts you in a unique position to be comparing and contrasting them. Let's talk about if you're
using salt fertilizers in a soilless medium like cocoa, and you just said that if you were in that
environment, it wouldn't be that the exudates wouldn't be there. It would be that there would
be nutrition-based exudates. You would just be changing the variety of exudates that are there,
that are being expressed. My question would be, would that impact how the plant expresses itself?
It seemed to me that if we are changing the exudates that are part of the cacophony in the
soil, that we're going to get different colors on the plant, different terpene profile, maybe a
difference in quality of thriving. It seems like the plant would express itself at the top level.
Is there any weight to that? Yeah, I think so. If we were to go back to our bizarre metaphor
from earlier, when you feed salt-based nutrients, it's kind of like putting in a really big box
store or something like that. It really changes the flavor of what's happening in that location.
I think that changes the personality of the soil. I think, to borrow a, I don't know,
personifying my soil now, but the conversations that are happening and the types of players that
are there changes pretty significantly. I don't doubt that that would also change the plant
itself. The plant is very flexible. It's going to do its best to grow and to thrive in whatever
circumstances that you put it in. But when you change those circumstances, it's going to
change itself to fit. I know lots of people that anecdotally say that terpenes are different and
cannabinoid profiles are different when you grow in living soil and stuff like that. Whereas when
you're feeding salt-based, maybe you're going for weight and the plant is forced into putting
more weight on because it's got all these extra nutrients and maybe it makes less.
I don't know that for sure because I haven't studied it myself, but I think that anecdotally
I've seen that happen. Right on. So even though you haven't seen the science for it, it makes
intuitive sense. Yeah, I would say so. One of the reasons I like living soil is because it gives the
plant its own options. It's complex. It's kind of a fun way to think about ecology too in a pot.
But the plant is really able to pick and choose a little better than, I don't know,
force-feeding it salt, if that makes sense. Yeah, for sure. We talk a lot on Shaping Fire
about the importance of a complex and thriving rhizosphere to have a complex and thriving plant
so that you have a complex and delightful terpene profile. The more you're simplifying what is in
the pot, say for example, using a cocoa-soil-less medium and salt-based nutrients,
I think the example you used was just putting them in a big box store. So you're going to get
big box terps out of it and not necessarily a full range, perhaps. Yeah, I think that's totally
reasonable. And again, this also ties into carbon budget because when you're forcing a plant to grow
in a specific way, you're also asking it to allocate all its resources in that direction too,
which generally means it has less for other stuff, which maybe is stuff that we want, like terpenes.
Right on. Let's talk a little bit about, I think I can probably group hydroponics and
fogponics together, but if not, tease them back apart for me. I'm curious because
we've talked significantly on this show about the soil food web and then somewhat about the water
food web and a hydroponics solution and a, I'm assuming a fog solution, we're talking about
the water food web. And I'm wondering if the quality and number and variety of the exudates
that are in those systems sound like there's going to be less since you initiated this by saying,
oh, I use a fogponics because we're trying to ranch these particular exudates and in soil,
there's just too many. So I'm assuming that in hydroponics and in fogponics, that there are
going to be less exudates based on what you had said earlier. And so with hydroponics, with this
same idea, crossover from the soilless mediums that there may be reasons you want to use
hydroponics, but in the end there are going to be less varieties of exudates and, you know,
signaling conversation taking, uh, take, you know, going on and nutrition. So you would run into the
same problem with hydroponic systems that you're not aggressively, um, supplementing, I guess.
Yeah. Yeah. I think that's fair. I mean, for me, the, the difference between fogponics and
hydroponics just quickly would be just like the, um, I don't know, dryness, if that makes sense,
because, uh, the fogponics is, even though it's nutrients, it's very dry. Like the roots aren't
sitting in water. They're not, um, they're not like soggy. So anything that's really
intolerant of flooding, um, I've been able to grow more successfully in fogponics, um,
as opposed to hydroponics where a lot of hydroponics, your, your plants are really
sitting in water or constantly sprayed by water or a lot of stuff like that. But it's a really
subtle difference, I think, because the nutrient solution I use for both, um, is the same. Um, so
as far as like, it compares pretty well to soilless. I think the biggest difference,
at least for me, wouldn't necessarily be in exudates. It would be more in like root architecture
because, um, the plants in a, in a like peat or cocoa, it's, it's more like soil for like how they
can grow. Um, but on the exudate level, I think that the same is probably true. There's going to
be a more defined set of exudates. They're probably coming mostly from the plant and you, you miss out
on some of those interactions with bacteria and fungus and stuff like that. And there's still
maybe some that can grow in those kinds of conditions, but a lot less than would be growing
in soil, at least as far as I can tell. Right on. Um, I also want to, um, add a little something
for all my hydroponics people who are listening, who are now like pissed at me because I'm,
I'm, I'm underselling their craft. I want to be clear that I do understand that, that some
hydroponics, um, you know, there's a lot of varieties of hydroponics. I mean, we had, we did
a really great, uh, soil food web show a couple of years ago with, uh, Steve Reisner and, and,
you know, he does the, you know, first of all, he is heavy into, uh, bringing in, uh, you know,
water with, uh, with mulm and fish poop in it. So there's a lot of complexity there. And, um, and,
and he was describing, you know, the, the great flowers that he pulls from his setup, but, but he
also has some soil in the mix. Right. So he's, he's like flooding and draining the soil and he's
got the fish poop. And so he's making this like incredibly biologically active environment that
makes, you know, flowers with terpene profiles that, um, that he says we, we don't even get in
a, in a straight soil medium. So I want to be clear when, when, when I'm talking about the
limitations of hydroponics, I'm talking about, you know, the kinds of stuff that people are
generally either doing, you know, in their, in, you know, in the extra room in their house or at,
you know, wild scale of corporate cannabis. I absolutely appreciate the fact that there are
really tasty ways to do complex hydroponics. So. That totally makes sense. And I would like to add
there that like each of these growing methods has its place and the plant will grow regardless.
Um, and so I, I know I've had some really good hydroponic weed before. I know that I've had some
really good living soil weed. Like they, they all have, they all have their way of doing things.
And I also think that there's ways to make hydroponics more accessible to bacterial life.
And like you were just saying with a different terpene profile that you don't get with either
of the other two. And that just kind of goes to prove the point that what you're putting on your
roots does change. And same with the type of life that you're growing changes, what the plant is
able to do. And sometimes that's for the better depending on which method you're using. So
definitely like whatever you're growing your plant in is better than not growing your plant at all.
Yeah, there you go. And you know, that's one of the challenges that we ran into, um, during these
like 24 hours of lights debate, people are like, I grew a huge ass plant that was absolutely
beautiful and totally got me high. And, and, and every, all my friends bought it from me and that
was great. And they're all like, why are you telling me that I shouldn't be using 24 hours?
And, and, and my response is always, it's, it's not that I'm saying that you can't grow plants
and that your plants are going to suck. If you, if you do, you go 24 hours. I'm saying that you're
probably leaving some quality on the table, um, by doing it 24 hours and your terpene profile could
be better and the plants could be better and you could be more, more pest resistant if you just,
uh, gave it four hours of, of sleep or six hours of sleep, it would be helpful. Um, but you know,
internet debates are rarely that nuanced, you know?
Oh, it's so true. And I, I do think that like, even it doesn't really at the end of the day
matter if you're growing a plant that suits your tastes, like however you're doing it is great.
I mean, unless you're dumping like illegal pesticides on it or something like that,
maybe, maybe don't do that. But you know, like, I think at the end of the day,
everybody's going to have a way of growing that works for them. And there's absolutely,
these debates are all like trying to tease out the finer ways of growing and like the best way
to grow. And that's going to be very much personal preference at the end of the day.
Um, and I personally prefer the taste of living soil weed, but I've had really good weed that's
been grown in every other condition you can imagine. So I'm, you know, yeah, as long as
you're growing a plant, it's fine. I'm with you there. And, and it also gets me when,
when people are demanding that, you know, their, their recipe of how they grow is,
is the best and one and only. And I'm like, that's, that, that shouldn't even be coming out of a,
out of a cannabis cultivator's mouth. You know, it really depends on what your particular needs are
and your resources and your location. And, you know, I would, I would love to grow differently
than I do, but I also don't live in California, you know, which, which, which pushes me towards
things like short flowering thing and auto flowers. Right. Um, you know, if I lived in
California, I would probably still be focusing on my own cultivation on photos. So, all right.
So the next thing I want to talk about is, um, is unsulfured molasses. So, um, it is, it is a pretty
common in, um, in living soil for, for folks to, um, think that they can make up for not giving,
I guess I'll call it like whole nutrition, like whole amendments, like, um, let's say like, um,
like, like fish meal and, and crab shell and, um, maybe alfalfa meal, all, all of these amendments
that we love to use in living soil, um, to have an, an abundant variety of nutrients there for
the, uh, the, I guess the exudate processors to chew through and then give to the plant.
So, and, and so the exudates come back and then they feed the microbes and this is beautiful
relationship. And it is not uncommon for people to say, well, you know, I don't, I don't need to
do all of that to take care of my microbes because I just, I just feed the microbes with
unsulfured molasses. And, and you know, that, that pains me because, um, I, I have a gut feeling
that just pouring sugar into the soil, um, is not a great idea. And, and, and molasses is kind
of uni dimensional, whereas microbe life is so, uh, so vastly complex and I get where they're
coming from, right? Because when we are brewing a compost tea, um, we will often add a bit of
unsulfured molasses to that so that the, um, the microbes have, have something to eat so that we
can, uh, incubate them and I have a whole bunch of them in a small place that we can then pour
onto our plants. So, so I get where they got the idea, but I think that is a misapplication of the
understanding of what effect molasses has on the microbe life in the rhizosphere. So, so as somebody
who has an intimate relationship with exudates, what are your thoughts on, on adding unsulfured
molasses directly into the substrate as part of some sort of nutritive root drench?
I am going to go back to the theme of the day, which is it's complicated and it depends, I think.
I think that if you are trying to recover your soil life just with molasses, that it really
depends on the health of the soil that you're adding it to, because that molasses, just like
it does in compost tea, is, does have sugar in it. I'm sure things will like to eat what's there and
grow. Um, but that means that anything in your soil you're adding it to is going to grow too.
So if you've got some nasty, you know, anaerobic bacteria in, in your soil already, like that's
going to love it as much as the next thing does. Um, and the other thing is like a lot of the
amendments we add, um, provide different, um, I don't know, different opportunities for different
types of microbes to come in. So if you're only feeding molasses and that's how you're getting
your, your microbial life, like it might get there eventually, but it's also going to be the microbes
that specifically like molasses and you'll miss out maybe on some of the, the kelp or the crab
meal type. And again, this is all kind of conjecture because truthfully the science isn't there to,
to be able to specifically identify each different bacteria that come with each of these, but
um, that's, that's what my gut feeling would be. Um, if you're already, if, if your health of your
soil is really good and you're already adding compost teas and things like that, if you're
diluting a little bit of molasses in water, I don't, I don't think it's, it's harmful. Um, but again,
like I do think that the biggest factor on whether that's a good idea or bad is probably the health
of your soil to begin with. Does that make sense? Yeah, it does. So, um, you know, is there anything
that we can do to encourage healthy exudate creation by the cannabis plant? I mean, we've
talked, we've talked a bit about like just generally keep your soil healthy. Got it. But
is there anything that we can do like a, uh, is there, is there any kind of, uh, uh, a, a, a, a,
a fermented plant juice or a supplement or, or in anything that we could do to encourage
exudate creation? Because they really do seem to be a, um, a, a baseline to a thriving plant where,
um, if, if you've got poor exudate activity, everything that happens more complex than that,
um, is going to be limited by the, the sad exudate system. So is there anything that we can
do that's pro exudate that, that we should consider? Ooh, that is a good question. Um, I mean, I think
the best answer is probably no and yes. Um, no, there isn't a magical thing that as much as it
would be nice to just like promote root health and the healthiest roots you've ever seen just
like sprout out of the, um, out of the soil and you're good to go. Um, because really it actually
ends up being about root health. Um, and that's where the yes part comes in because you can
support root health by, um, like the type, like you were talking about earlier, proper watering
technique, um, where you're making sure the roots aren't like super dry and they're not super wet
or anything like that. Um, you can promote root health with soil texture. Um, you can add these
compost teas and things like that. Like we've been talking about to promote the type of microbes
that you want to be there. Um, you can give them lots of space to grow. Obviously more roots equals
more exudates. So if you have a nice big root ball, I'm a big fan of big root balls though,
because it's my thing. So, um, that that's probably what I would say is like good, good root health.
And so, um, yeah, I think that's that, but I mean, again, it's, it's so hard to say how to get good
root health and it's sort of trial and error. So philosophically speaking, these kinds of
conversations help too, because you'll find people all over the place that have different ways of
making sure they have healthy roots. And maybe one of those ends up working for your particular
strain or type of plant. No surprise that you're a big fan of root balls being up there in BC,
the land of Natasha Riz, who's been on the show talking about root balls as well.
My Canadian friends all love the, the love, the cannabis root ball.
Good roots equals good plants.
Totally. It's so nice to come to an end of an episode without anything new we have to do,
you know, usually when we go through these episodes at the end, there's like, okay, I need,
I need to learn about this and I need to start adding this and I need to learn how to start,
you know, making this Korean natural farming prep. But really at the end of the story,
we've learned a whole ton about exudates today. So, so a, we stopped repeating bro science and B,
we have like a more intimate relationship with an understanding of the biology of our plant.
But really, if you're already studying living soil and trying to have a healthy soil,
like the exudates will take care of themselves. And it's, it's so delightful to just be able to
get new understanding without new tasks. It's true. Root health is just, you know what,
just keep doing what you're doing and grow the healthiest plants that you can. And,
and the plant is very good at taking care of itself. So if you give it the opportunity to,
then you won't have to worry about it. Fabulous. Well, Sarah, thank you so much
for sharing your time and expertise with us today on shaping fire. You know, I mentioned this in the
introduction to the show that, you know, you really do have a, a rare specialty and to find
somebody who is, you know, doing this at the, at the PhD research level, and also is a home cannabis
cultivator, makes you exceptionally unique to be able to bridge between the academic science side
of exudates and our beloved cannabis plant. And so thank you for, you know, taking two hours and
sharing it with us so that, that we can all become more familiar with exudates.
It's been absolutely my pleasure. Thank you so much for having me.
Fabulous. So if you want to keep up with Sarah Lane, the best place to do that is
through her Twitter and her Twitter account is exudet rootly. So that's E X U D E T T E R O O T
L Y. So that is a great place to keep up on her research and her interests. If you happen to have
a, like a more of an elaborate question or comment, perhaps then a, you know, a Twitter
account will allow. She also invites you to send an email if you'd like, and that is S Lane, S L A N E
at uvic.ca. So that's U V I C. C A. You can find more episodes of the shaping fire podcast and
subscribe to the show at shapingfire.com and wherever you get your podcasts. If you enjoyed
the show, we'd really appreciate it. If you would leave a positive review of the podcast, wherever
you download your view will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too on the shaping fire
website. You can also subscribe to the newsletter for insights into the latest cannabis news,
exclusive videos, and giveaways on the shaping fire website. You also find transcripts of today's
podcast as well. Be sure to follow on Instagram for all original content, not found on the podcast.
That's at shaping fire and at shango Lowe's on Instagram. Be sure to check out the shaping fire,
YouTube channel for exclusive interviews, farm tours, and cannabis lectures. Does your company
want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts? Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to
find out how thanks for listening to shaping fire. I've been your host shango Lowe's.
