I'm not really a big fan of holidays.
Ever since I was a kid, everyone around me had these huge expectations on what they wanted
their holiday to look like.
It created an ungodly amount of pressure to perform for the delight of others and to soothe
them when their childish desires were not met.
It is exhausting, and I've only realized how much it has impacted my life in the last
couple of years during quarantine because of all the time I've had for self-reflection
and a bit of TikTok therapy.
I share this with you as a cautionary tale about keeping your expectations low, because
on this episode on Shaping Fire, I'm the special guest.
Today on Shaping Fire, we are sharing my recent appearance as guest on the Curious About Cannabis
podcast.
The show's host, Jason Wilson, is absolutely delightful, and we share a similar vibe.
The interview covers my thoughts on using outdoor regenerative cultivation techniques
indoors.
The rocky transition from medical to recreational markets for cannabis patients at the state
level.
How to form local growers' collectives and how I formed the one here on Vashon Island.
The rise of auto flowers, of course.
And some behind-the-scenes thoughts about Shaping Fire, the podcast, among other topics.
It's a whole lot of good stuff in there.
And jokes about the holidays and low expectations aside, I'm sharing this interview because
I'm actually proud of what Jason and I produced.
I certainly don't share all the podcasts where I appear, but this one is especially
well done and I think you might enjoy it.
For those of you who prefer video, you can watch the Curious About Cannabis video recording
of this interview today on the Shaping Fire YouTube channel.
I do want to note that I get the sniffles at one point, and for those of you not watching
the video, I'm actually recording my side of the video outside on my deck, and it was
pretty chilly that morning and I got the sniffles.
So I hope you have a delightfully tolerable holiday weekend by yourself or with loved
ones and enjoy this, episode 66 of Curious About Cannabis, hosted by Jason Wilson, with
special guest me, Shango Lose.
Hey everybody, this is Jason with Curious About Cannabis.
Thanks so much for tuning in once again.
Today I am really, really excited because we've got kind of a convergence of cannabis
podcasts here, but I'm connecting with somebody who I've been told repeatedly by guest after
guest that I've interviewed that this is a person I need to connect with.
I've been told that a lot of the people that I interview that I remind them of this person,
so we finally made it happen.
I'm here with Shango Lose of the Shaping Fire podcast.
Shango, thanks so much for being willing to take the time today to connect and come on
the podcast.
Hey Jason.
Well, thanks for having me.
Thanks for the invitation.
I'm happy to be here.
Absolutely.
And, you know, right off the top, I want to say thank you for the work that you do, because
as, you know, a scientist in this field and kind of crawling out of my cave into media
and trying to connect with the outside world, you know, I definitely recognize that your
work has been some of the best that I've come across in terms of trying to connect
lay people with technical information in a digestible way that's relevant.
So my hat's off to you, man.
Thanks so much for the great work that you've been doing so far.
Well, thank you very much.
I really put my heart into it.
I'm always doing my best and I really enjoy it as well.
And now that the show has grown, you know, we're in our fourth year now of Shaping Fire,
it's gotten to the point where it can support me now.
So that is nice.
It was a lot of years of doing multiple jobs, but I'm at the point now that I can really
focus on the show and, you know, I'm very grateful for the opportunity.
That's so awesome and hopeful for me to hear because I'm only, you know, we're just past
like a year and a half or so of Curious About Cannabis running.
And so I'm in that period right now of working like multiple jobs, balancing this too and
trying to make it all happen.
So I can totally, totally relate to that hustle.
And I know that a lot of my listeners, because they've told me, a lot of my listeners do
already listen to Shaping Fire.
But to those that are unfamiliar or don't know who you are, do you mind providing just
a little bit of background into, you know, first what Shaping Fire is?
And then I want to work backwards and just talk about kind of your relationship with
cannabis and your general story.
All right, well, then I guess I'll just start with talking a little bit about Shaping Fire
and then you can lead me wherever you want to lead me after that.
So Shaping Fire is a audio only podcast that focuses on cannabis health, cultivation and
solventless extraction techniques.
And so it is in the early days, but for the first year, I was focused to a great deal
on cannabis business.
But over time, not only were there a lot of other people covering cannabis business, but
I realized that after medical cannabis went away in my state of Washington and my
national clients in medical started converting to rec, that the vibe changed in the scene.
And I wasn't as excited about covering business anymore.
I was really much more interested in cannabis patients, different cultivars, how
working with them in different preparations helps human health.
And then after, you know, after I learned how to make ice hash and then once ice hash
rosin came on the scene, I realized that that most of us can do all the things that we
need for cannabis at home without even interfacing with the licensed market.
And while I wish the licensed market success, you know, I've got lots of friends in the
licensed market. I found that that wasn't the part that I was most excited about.
The part I was excited about was small cannabis communities, home grow and people
trading cannabis so that so they had greater variety.
So that's essentially what Shaping Fire covers now.
We have got some of the best guests in the whole world available to us.
We're pulling in botanists, scientists from the lab, folks who are neurologists, also
cannabis breeders, a master hash maker sounds like.
Right. Yeah. But folks are very talented and experienced with making hash.
And and so I bring them on the show and and we talk a lot of specifics.
The idea of the show was always to give people enough information to be able to take
action. It frustrates me when I listen to a podcast that is supposed to be teaching me,
but it leaves all these big gaps.
And I really do my best to provide content that gives people a nice full package so that
they can either make decisions or or do the technique or or understand their health
better in in in one nice, tight 90 minute package.
And so so so that's that's the nature of the show.
And, you know, I like to say that Shaping Fire was shaping for you to get educated while
we respect your time. Right.
I don't spend a lot of time like, you know, I don't get high on the show.
I don't I don't talk about my guests, talk to my guests about what cultivars they're
smoking. Like there's different shows that do that.
And that's cool. And it draws a kind of audience that wants that kind of, I don't know,
bro vibe. Right. Yeah.
Like hanging out. Yeah, totally.
And they'll do these long shows.
But but the kinds of folks who tend to listen to Shaping Fire tend to be, you know,
cannabis enthusiasts who also have got other things they've got to get done.
Maybe they run companies, maybe they are, you know, made their decision makers or
they're just like people who are busy.
And so I try not to waste folks time.
I try to get in, get the point, get people the information that they're going to need on
whatever the topic and then and then in the show and, you know, in a cheerful way.
Absolutely. Well, and that's that's something I really respect because that's been a big
part of my approach to and part of that comes from just like my analytical thinking as a
scientist. But I'm like, yeah, I don't get high on the show.
Just it's really just what's the core piece of information that's interesting and and
making that digestible. And I noticed that in your marketing, you know, that we're
trying not to waste your time.
And I love that.
And I also appreciate what you just said about watching the this transition and the
vibe change from as things switch from medical to rec, because I definitely experience
the same thing here in Oregon.
You know, I was involved in the medical program.
I was a medical patient and also working, you know, building this lab to try to help
people understand what was in their products.
And we were dealing mostly with patients, a lot of medical patients that were make growing
their own cannabis, making their own products and wanting to understand whether they were
safe to consume and what the potency was and that sort of thing.
And then you do see this shift and now all of it is just so, so different.
And it's hard, I think, for some people to appreciate just how substantially things have
changed if they weren't involved in the medical systems before, you know, everything
started to come online, especially in other states that are taking a little longer to
to make some of these changes to their laws.
So can you speak to that a little bit, just to expand a little bit more on your
perspective on just exactly how things changed from kind of the early medical days into,
you know, the legal systems that we have now?
What were some of those changes you started to pick up on?
Sure, I've got three that I think are probably good to hit on.
The first one is we've already hit on a little bit, which is the players changed, who was
involved during the medical days.
You know, there were there were more heritage cultivators and heritage medicine
bearers who were involved, who were not.
They were fringe folks because there was a lot to lose back in the medical days, too,
when there's still being raids and things and the laws were changing and so many people
were working in the gray market that, you know, most of us had some of the people in law
enforcement who were supporting our our ability to create medicine and put it in the
hands of cannabis patients.
But there were other folks in law enforcement who were not ascribing to that.
And so it made it very risky.
And and, you know, once it became more safe for capital and licensing started to happen,
the capital came.
And with that comes a different kind of risk assessment and different different bureaucracy
for the players and a lot of the heritage cultivators, they didn't have the credit score
to rent a legal location or they didn't have the business acumen because at their heart,
they were farmers or alchemists, how they saw themselves, not really as business people.
And the people who were organized and did have capital to be able to to rent legal places
and go through the state bureaucracy and end up getting the licenses and know how to hire
out for HR and know how to sell to investors.
Those are a different kind of person.
And and again, I don't intend and it's not my goal here to diss those folks, because I
think that increased access in every state is important and access is is a priority.
However, it very much changed from a we're in it for the patients and I've been around
cannabis all for years and we're trying to do our best by the patients into being
something that has more neon lights and finer packaging, you know, and the vibe changed.
And and, you know, and so so that was a significant difference.
The second thing I'll point out is that the the the varieties of products change now,
certainly now that we're many more years in to legalization in or at least licensing in
some states, there are beginning to be more patient focused products.
But just about every state that has medical first and then they go wreck, there is this
sudden dearth of medical products when the licenses come out because licensed folks know
that the things that are always a reliable cell are high THC flour.
And so that's what everybody starts with.
You know, and I had plenty of clients who are making this transition.
They're like, all right, start with the high THC flour.
Once we get that established, then we're going to roll out the other products.
Well, for patients who had gotten off their their pharmaceuticals, that gap could literally
kill them, either because they had to go back to pharmaceuticals and they were dealing with
those side effects or they had gotten to a point where the body had healed enough in
certain ways that they couldn't go back to those same pharmaceuticals without it being a
bumpy ride of getting your body back attuned to a pharmaceutical solution instead of an
herbal solution.
And so, so, you know, a perfect example for that is full extract cannabis oil.
So an ethanol extract.
Most of us know it is RSO.
So RSO usually disappears from the market during the transition from medical to
recreational. And then when it does start to show up in a wreck market, you'll find
companies who are like selling their CO2 RSO, right?
Which is not, you know, it's not the same thing, right?
Because it's more economical for them to run it through a CO2 machine than it is for
them to do the more often laborious ethanol extraction.
And and so the there's this there's this variety of products are gone.
However, with the legal market, some really cool things have come about, like really great
dispensers for RSO and some of the inhalers are pretty incredible.
Certainly the advancement of vaporizers has just wildly expanded.
So there's been a lot of things that they good that have come with the licensed market,
too. But I think that's more to do with the idea that it's easier for these cannabis
companies to get funding now for their novel products where, you know, medical is pre
capital is capital.
Right. And so there was it was a lot harder to for for those companies.
And my third example also involves RSO, the full extract oil.
You know, back in the day, if you had if you needed RSO because you were sick, you could
go to at least on the West Coast, you could go to some kind of, you know, patient
cannabis exchange of some sort.
Right. And, you know, they they were often, you know, straddling the gray market and, you
know, they were they're often, you know, kind of straddling legality.
But the heart was there and the quality was there often.
And the people were smiling and there were lots of hugs and it felt like a family thing.
And and depending on where you were regionally, you could get a one milliliter syringe
of high quality RSO for between 15 and 60 bucks, 15 or 50 bucks, depending on where you
were. And and here and here is the example part is that, you know, just about everybody
I knew who made RSO had a discount for people who were doing a 60 milliliters in 90
days cannabis protocol.
Right. Yeah. Because if you if you had cancer and you had found yourself, you know,
going to try RSO, you're either already kind of like an herbally minded person or you
were already broke because the Western system had already taken all your money.
The doctors are already taking them all.
And so you were you were at your last bet and you were going to try cannabis.
Right. So usually, you know, the people who had cancer and were ready to try RSO were
already broke. And we all felt bad for them because they had cancer.
Right. Yeah. Terrible, terrible thing to have to deal with.
And so you'd get people who, you know, would give somebody a huge reduction, say, say
if they were selling their syringes for, you know, 50 dollars normally, they would, you
know, if you're going to buy 60, we'll drop the price down to 25 bucks.
Right. We'll do it half price.
And like, sure, some of that is like you're buying in volume.
Right. Everybody, you know, volume discounts are good.
But but really, it was more than that.
There was a lot of heart in that price.
And. The licensed market is not able to do that kind of price reduction.
And so, you know, there is not bulk purchasing really in the licensed market.
Like, you know, if you if you need multiple syringes of RSO, you buy one for seventy two
dollars and another for seventy two dollars and then another for seventy two dollars.
And so people who need cannabis to live, it has become harder for them to purchase at
reasonable prices in the market, which, of course, is keeping the the alternative
unlicensed market very much alive throughout the country.
And and, you know, the the the rocky transition from the medical markets in most
states to the markets, it has it's kind of done bad for both.
It's it's bad for the medical heritage processors.
It's also bad for the patients.
And also because, you know, this black market is still being kept alive because it's so
needed. It's also bad for Iraq.
So mostly, you know, the state's mismanagement of these transitions from medical to
licensed recreational has just given us a a a worse of all options.
Yeah, everything that that you just brought up, it brings out a lot of memories for me
thinking about Oregon and the transitions that we saw, you know, going from medical to
to recreational.
And one thing that I think about from a patient perspective, particularly when you talk
about the reduction in the diversity of products, I remember how much experimentation was
going on with CBD THC ratios leading up to like twenty sixteen or so.
And obviously it's still happening.
But in the medical system, you know, if I went to somebody and said I was looking for a
certain ratio or once dispensaries became legal because for a while they were kind of in
this weird gray area.
Once they became officially legal, you know, you could find four to ones, three to ones,
two to ones, one to ones like you could find all of these things.
You know, there wouldn't be a lot of them, but they they were solid.
And for me, I have these spinal cord injuries and I found, you know, like a two to one to
four to one is very nice for that.
I noticed that when things went recreational, you really don't see a lot of that
anymore. You know, you might see some one to ones, but that's that's most of what you see.
And it's either high THC, high CBD is now kind of getting relegated to hemp, but you still
see that in dispensaries from time to time.
But but that's it.
And so for someone like myself, that is a medical patient that no longer has a card because
it's now legal, that that was a big change.
And so I definitely have seen a lot of those those same changes, too.
And hearing you talk about it, you know, it's obvious you have a lot of passion for the
patients and a lot of passion for that.
You know, like you were saying, the the kind of source where all of this is really
coming from. So to kind of rewind quite a bit, do you mind sharing how did your
relationship with cannabis get started?
Is it something that goes back into, you know, teenage or early 20s for you, or is it
something that you discovered later?
How did that relationship come about?
I would say I had I had two beginnings of my relationship with cannabis because the
first time was my freshman year of college.
I went home, he lived in New York, he went home for Christmas and he came back and he
brought some joints and I had never had access before and, you know, had never seen
it around or anything. It just wasn't where I lived in, you know, suburbs, Catholic
school, that whole thing.
And he brought it back and, you know, for whatever reason, I was immediately interested.
And like there was no second thought.
He's like, oh, you want to try this?
I'm like, yeah, let's try new things, you know?
Yes.
And so we tried it and I immediately thought it was great from an experiential, you know,
both recreationally because it was fun, but also I, you know, I immediately got the idea
of the mind expansion part.
Yeah.
I'm like, oh, wow.
I really, it really shifts my perspective in ways I can consider my mundane life in new,
fresh ways. So I thought that was really cool.
And, you know, it took me, you know, about four weeks to get my first bag after that.
And then I don't think I've been without it ever since, you know, you know, 1990 now or
whatever. One of the funny things is I learned how to, you know, smoke cannabis during the
first season of The Simpsons.
Oh, man.
Wow.
Wow.
That goes way back.
We used to, we used to all get together on, I don't know if it was Tuesday or Thursday
nights, but we'd all get together and sit on the floor of the dorm room and all smoke and
watch that first season of Simpsons.
And that's, that's how I, you know, was smoking with friends all the time.
And I'm like, you know, I think I need to get some of this for myself.
So, so then we've got like just like a lifetime of, you know, of, of, of, of, of
being somebody who enjoys cannabis myself.
But then, um, uh, 2011 came in, um, I was in a car accident.
I suffered a dual concussion resulting in a traumatic brain injury.
And, um, the neurologist actually told me off the record, he says, you know, um, I
recommend that you, um, you know, consider, uh, using mushrooms to help rebuild your
neural net and just kind of soothe the, the, the, the overactivity that I was getting, the
overstimulation.
And he says, um, and he said, you know, I also recommend that you move out of the
city.
And so I moved out to Vashon Island where I live now.
And, and, and he also said, I understand that there's some healing properties in
cannabis.
He says, I can't recommend any of this for you officially.
He says, but, but if you're, you know, um, like look into this stuff.
And I was astonished, right.
Because, you know, back in, back in those days, you know, 2011, um, you still like
didn't tell your doctor, right.
Right.
Cannabis.
And I was, I was, I was a daily cannabis user at that point.
And, um, and so I'm like, huh, Edison, huh?
Oh, like, all right.
And so I started looking into it and, um, started, you know, reading the early
research, mostly coming out of Europe and everything.
I'm like, wow, there really are medicinal properties going on here.
And, um, and then, uh, and then my dad got really bad knees.
And so, um, so, so I had already learned how to make a cannabis tincture for
myself, um, to help keep my, um, my nervous system calm and then I wouldn't
get overstimulated.
Um, but then my dad, knees got really bad and, and the, the pharmaceuticals he
was using for anti-inflammation really had some bad side effects.
And so, um, um, I, I said, Hey, I bet you I could put my tincture in some like,
like body lotion or hand cream or something and whip them together and boom
topical.
Right.
And so I tried it and it worked and my dad put it on his knees and he's all like,
Oh my gosh, this works so much better.
And for so much longer than this, like ugly pharmaceutical that he was wanting.
And I don't mean to diss all pharmaceuticals, right?
There, there are, there are appropriate pharmaceuticals at appropriate times, but
in this case, an herbal remedy was much better for my dad.
And, um, he was very enthusiastic about it.
And, um, and that made me feel good about it as well because, um, you know, my
parents were historically, um, discouraging me from cannabis or, you know, like
drugs in general, right?
Sure.
Yeah.
Parents.
And, uh, but, but at this point I'm like, wait a minute, there's something here.
This is helping me soothe my brain injury and heal.
And now it's helping my dad too.
What else is going on?
And so I dove into both, um, uh, like learning about cannabis medicine from,
you know, any sources I could, and also trying to learn herbal preparations.
Um, I live here in Seattle.
I live pretty close to best year university.
And so my whole area is just like dripping with herbalists.
They're everywhere.
And so, you know, if you're, you know, if, if you, if you're nice to them,
they will tell you their secrets.
And so, and so that's, that's when I got my rebirth in the, in the cannabis
medicine in, in 2011 and, um, and then of course, you know, things, things
have continued, uh, since then.
Yeah.
And, and how did that, I mean, first of all, I want to say, um, I get why
people wanted us to talk because, um, in some ways we have some big parallels
between the two of us, cause, um, uh, I went through a similar experience with my
mom.
So after I had all these spinal cord injuries and trying to figure out how to
get control over, you know, myself and the things that I was dealing with, um, I
had been a regular cannabis user, just like you had described.
And then, you know, kind of discover this new perspective of looking at it.
And then, uh, my mom had really bad fibromyalgia and, you know, arthritis and
stuff.
And very similarly, I gave her some extract that we mixed with a, uh, like a
coconut oil based, um, topical that she, I can't remember what it was just really
simple, just mixed it in there.
And, um, likewise, she was like, oh my gosh, this is better than any
pharmaceutical I've ever taken for, you know, for these, these problems.
Um, so it's funny, um, those parallels, um, I can, um, totally relate to.
And how did, so you, you know, you start to understand how cannabis is affecting
you and helping you find this kind of new balance that you need in your life.
And then that's bleeding out into loved ones and seeing the effects that cannabis
can have on them.
Um, when did your passion for education start to really manifest where you really
started to move forward in sharing all of these things that you were learning, uh,
with other people?
Cause you've been doing, I mean, beyond the podcast, you've organized, uh, all
sorts of events, um, on Vashon Island and other things like that.
And I definitely want to talk about, um, the work that you've done to really bring
the community together, um, to learn and share knowledge and everything.
So what were the, yeah.
How did those seeds, I guess, get, um, germinated if you will, to bloom into a
lot of the education?
I see where you're going.
Yeah.
Um, so, so the way the way the timeline went out is, um, um, hit my head in 2011,
um, started making my own preparations and, you know, when you're making tincture
and, and it's working for you and, and people, your friends and loved ones find
out you're making it suddenly they're using your tinctures and then, and then
their, their loved ones are using your tinctures and, and then medical got going,
um, more significantly in Washington.
Um, or at least my participation of it was, was increased and, uh, my tinctures,
um, became being sold through the, the, the Washington medical market.
And it was great.
Um, I was able to, um, make these tinctures and share them through, um, you
know, legal dispensaries.
And, um, uh, it was at that point that people started asking me questions because
at that point they're all like, okay, which of the four tinctures do I want?
Why do I want them?
You know, what, you know, which, which, which cultivar, which press preparation
is going to help me now versus something at high CBD that is designed to strengthen
your endocannabinoid system and will help me longterm, you know, like, like, and,
and that was when I first got into thinking about and teaching dosing
strategies to patients.
And so I loved that.
I really enjoyed that.
And, um, and you know, the, the medical days were a heyday, right?
Not, not only because everybody was so not, not everybody, but the vast majority
of people were very nice.
Um, but also the margins weren't as tight as they are today.
And so, you know, you could actually do this and, and, and support yourself.
And, and while I never got to that level, right.
Um, uh, we, the, you know, the market transitioned to legal before, you know, I,
I had like a business business, right.
I, my volume was never, of units were, was never significant, but people liked it.
Right.
And that, that buoyed me and I started teaching.
So then when there was the, um, when, when the market started to, um, well,
before we talk about the market pivoting, it was at this same time that I, um, began.
Reaching out to the, the underground cannabis growers on Vashon because, uh,
Vashon has been known for its high quality cannabis all the way back to the
seventies, you know, bands would come through Seattle and they try to like get
their Vashon hookup and they pick up some weed for the rest of tour and all that
kind of stuff.
And so I knew that these, these cultivators were here on Vashon, but I also knew they
were very much still in the underground.
And, but, but because there were so many people producing on the island, um,
prices for ounces on the island were just like ridiculously low, you know?
And, um, that was great if you lived on the island, but it was really bad for the,
the cultivators who were trying to support their families on it.
And, and I realized that, um, there were all these dispensaries, a short ferry ride
away in, uh, in Seattle that, um, would love to have the produce from my island.
But none of the, none of the cultivators wanted to leave the island.
I didn't want to, I still don't want to leave the island.
You know, once you, once you moved here, you're like, you're like, ah, I don't
want to go to Babylon.
Yeah, right.
Yeah.
I don't want to go to that.
So it's noisy and everybody's driving crazy and everything's good here.
We'll just stay in place.
Yeah.
But, um, but because I was, you know, I was more recently on the island than
these cultivators who grew up here.
Um, I wrote a one page invitation talking a little bit about, um, this group that I
wanted to form on Vashon, um, called VIMEA, uh, which stands for the Vashon,
the Vashon Island Marijuana Entrepreneurs Alliance.
And I wanted to know what they wanted as far as representation, like what, what
can you use as a cultivator?
What would help you in the underground?
And so I made up a bunch of these letters and I started giving them out to the kinds
of people on the island who I thought would know cultivators.
So particular types of farmers, certain types of community organizers.
I'm like, I'm like, you don't have to tell me if you know a cultivator, but if you
know a cultivator, would you give them this letter?
And they're like, huh, that's interesting.
Yeah.
And so these, these, these letters went into the underground.
I made like 25 of them.
And these, these, um, these black market cultivators started like showing up at the
oddest of times too.
Um, cause nobody was calling me.
I would just be, you know, you know, at, at, at a baseball game or a softball game,
you know, and somebody would come up to me and say like, you know, you're Shango,
right?
I'm like, yeah.
I'm like, Hey, I got your letter.
Wow.
And they're like, you want to go for a little walk?
I'm like, yes.
And so we'd go and we talk and, and you know, the, the universally everybody
wanted security, right?
Everybody was afraid to get busted for their grows.
And so I knew that, um, normalization on the Island was one of the important
things that Vimy was going to do.
Um, and then, and then the other thing was, is that everybody, um, was spending
way too much money on inputs.
Yeah.
All the, all these fancy ass inputs are expensive.
And so, um, so the very first thing I did when I formed Vimeo was to, um, start
essentially a media slash, I guess, propaganda campaign that was pro cultivator.
And, um, uh, you know, things, things like, um, um, you know, we were, you,
you, we, back in those days we were using words like pot and, and marijuana
a lot more than we were now.
Right.
So, so we would do things, you know, we would put out things like, you know,
hug your local pot grower, you know, you know, um, uh, uh, uh, pot growers are
local farmers too.
Yes.
Um, you know, uh, uh, pot cultivation is a family farm.
Things like this, right.
Which, which got the rest of the Island to realize that, um, you don't have
to look at cannabis as a scourge.
These are members of the community and, and we should embrace them.
And then the second thing I did is I started pulling together more of these
cultivators and I said, um, you know, this is still in the old days when people
were, uh, uh, throwing away their soil after every run, right.
Instead of keeping it and aging the soil and, you know, more of a no till
kind of region thing, right.
Back in these days, people were just dumping their soil and thought they
had to start with new soil.
What's the, so, so, you know, we started bulk, but we started bulk purchasing
soil and just having, you know, a higher quality soil than was available
generally on the Island.
And we were just having it come and be dumped at one location and everybody
would come with their truck and fill up their truck and then head on home.
And, you know, we got these hugely better prices.
Well, after that, people were all like, all right, Shango, what
else, what else you got for us?
And so we started doing, you know, some other, um, you know, soil
amendments, we started buying bulk.
And, um, you know, this was, this was well ahead of my awareness of the
more serious regenerative scene, which I'm, you know, a big part of now, but
in, in these early days, I knew I liked organic farming because I grew a little
bit of organic food, um, but, uh, I certainly didn't have like the,
the regenerative whole mindset.
Um, I, I was just very stoked that we were using natural amendments
and I knew how to make compost.
You know, just the idea was like, you know, like, let's, let's try to
like get people off the bottle.
Yes.
Cause that was, that was a thing that early.
Um, and so we started doing that and people really liked that.
Well, at this point, the, the, the, the, the underground
growers started to trust me more.
And I'm learning a whole lot about what it means to be a cultivator
because I had, I was not a cultivator.
Um, I was an enthusiast and then, and then a patient and then, um, and so.
I started going to these, some of these folks that, uh, that we had a
more trusting relationship and I said, Hey, you know, can I, can I shop
some of your flower into Seattle?
And, and they're all like, you want me to like front it to you?
And I'm like, well, I guess in a way, but I, I just want to
borrow it for two hours, three hours.
Can, can, can I, can I have, you know, a couple of pounds and
I'll go over to the dispensaries and try to sell it.
And either I will bring you back money or I will bring you back the flower.
I'm not going to, it will not be in my hands tonight, one way or another.
And they're like, all right, let's give this a try.
And, um, I took it over there and I came back with money.
And so when I, I, and I got them, um, about 150% of the price that they
would normally get on the Island.
That made me very popular.
Yes.
You know?
And so they're like, wait, you're saving us money on the inputs and you're
bringing us home more money and setting up these relationships.
And then eventually once they, they got set up, you know, the, the, the cannabis
was finding its way off the Island, which honestly was making the concerned
parents, people a little happier, you know, because I was a public figure
since I wasn't a cultivator, I could be out front more.
And so I was out front saying nice things about cannabis farmers,
explaining their needs and, and explaining that this organization I had started was
helping filter a lot of this cannabis off the Island, which that so caused them to
embrace my new organization a little bit more, but the farmers were also thrilled.
And, um, because they were able to get more for their products.
So, so, so this is all happens, but then everything falls
apart at the end of medical.
Um, so we, we, you know, we got together, um, as Vimeo, as a group, a few times to
go through the regulations when it came out, like the, the how to apply for a
license, I went and I read it all and I marked it all up and then got together
all these people who are interested in getting licenses and essentially
taught the regulations to everybody.
And the more we met three times like this, and the more we got into it, we
more, we realized that this sucked and that this was, this may, this was going
to be really expensive and didn't really have the needs of the cultivator at heart.
And, um, you know, a couple of people tried, um, almost no one succeeded.
And, um, because they, they, they were, they were wanting to give their money
to a different kind of license holder than people who were
participating in the medical kit.
And so I had to make a decision at that point because, um, you know, I wasn't
going to be involved with the medical market anymore.
And, um, I, what didn't look like I was going to move into the licensed market.
So what are we going to do?
And it came back to my first love, which was teaching patients, teaching
dosing strategies and creating a safe place for cultivators.
And so the, the initial meetings that we had to learn about regulations
became a patient outreach meetings.
And so they became like, you know, um, you know, uh, uh, you know,
one doctor would come to, well, actually we're very lucky to have Dr.
Ethan Russo neurologist lives on the Island.
He's my neighbor.
And so, and so Dr.
Russo like, you know, came and talked at one of these events and
explained the endocannabinoid system.
And everybody's all like, like, you know, this was very new
information for, for the people.
Yeah.
Right.
Um, but also if, if you are a, an event promoter and you're trying to book
speakers, if a cannabis, um, doctor, scientist, celebrity, whatever, if they
know that you've already hosted Dr.
Ethan Russo, like they're figuring that you're pretty okay.
And I got all these yeses from international like cannabis talent
who would come and I tell them that we're a patient outreach organization.
We don't charge any money to attend.
We're donation based only.
We do not pay our speakers, but you know, we'll, um, uh, we had a sponsorship
deal with the one, uh, hotel on the Island.
I said, you know, if you come to the Island overnight, we'll put you up for
the night, but really you're just coming because you care about patients and you
want to talk to the real deal people and people flocked to Vashon.
And so suddenly now we've got this scene, which grew from Vashon to
Seattle, to the Pacific Northwest.
You know, we, we, we've had people fly in from Colorado and from the Bay
area for different, different events we've had because the, the variety of
teaching at these events was very down home, good vibe stuff.
And, um, so that's where the, that's where the education circle
always around your question.
That's where the education came in is it was, it was originally.
Let's organize cultivators because I'm interested in them and I wanted to be
helpful on, on this new Island that I called home and then, and then I saw
things that I could do to be of service to them.
And so I did those things, which helped my reputation as being
somebody who was trustworthy.
And then, and then we pivoted that into a patient organization to the point that.
You know, I speak here at the senior center a couple of times a year and I'm
on the local radio station as a guest regularly and been on the front page
of the newspaper, you know, it's like, um, there's, I've got, I've developed
this niche for myself where, um, like I have been referred to as like the weed
guy or the pot guy, a guy a gazillion times.
But not because I was selling bags, right.
Cause I don't sell flower.
I'm I'm I'm it's because I'm teaching everybody and then telling people where
they can get the stuff that they need to feel better, whether it's in the
rec or unlicensed market, I just, you know, um, so, so that brings us, you
know, pretty much to where we are now with Vimeo where, you know, um,
unfortunately we were been on sabbatical because of COVID right.
Yeah.
Um, and, and Vimeo will be the last group to get people coming back together
because we're all patients.
Right.
And so like we are at the most high risk and also, you know, there are a lot of
people in the cannabis scene who, um, who are resisting vaccination.
And so, um, I can't, I'm certainly not going to be that guy who checks
everybody's ID at the door.
That's, that's not really how I roll.
So we're just going to have to wait.
We're going to have to wait until, um, the risk is decreased enough that we
can bring together a room of a hundred patients and not have it be super
dangerous.
So, you know, we, we won't have meetings until, you know, at least spring of 22,
which is a bummer, right?
Yeah.
That'll leave us at a good two years.
That's going to leave us with a good two years without meetings.
Um, but you know, got to keep the patient safe.
Exactly.
I mean, it's, it's the weird situation we're in.
I mean, I, I felt the same thing.
I used to do in-person workshops pretty regularly on cannabis science topics, uh,
was doing guest lectures at universities and everything.
And it's been, I mean, pretty much once everything kicked off around, you know,
February, March of 2020, you know, it's like, I have a daughter.
I also regularly see, you know, my parents who have all sorts of medical
conditions, you know, myself and my wife have medical conditions.
So it's, we've been basically, you know, just being very strict on, um, in-person
events and having to get people together.
And it's, um, it's been interesting because I've had to rely on virtual
communication, um, leaning more on podcasting, leaning more on, on that sort
of thing.
Um, but it does feel weird because you like to be with people and there's, there
are these interactions and moments and knowledge sharing that happens in person.
That's so hard to, um, to get those dynamics captured in a virtual setting.
I'm sure you've experienced this where you see the knowledge sharing, the
questions being asked, the looks on people's faces, these different subtleties
that come out in in-person events.
Um, that's really, really special.
Um, at least, you know, those are the kinds of things that lead me to want to do
those things more and more, um, seeing all of that happen.
So I, yeah, I can imagine it's been—
And the hugs!
Yeah, yeah.
The hugs, right?
Right.
Like, like at the, at the, you know, it's like, it's that simple.
Like, you know, I live on an island.
I'm a single guy.
I live in a house by myself on the water, right?
But I am not getting enough hugs.
Yeah.
You know, at first when COVID came and all the conventions were canceled, I must
admit, it was nice to get like six months to a year of a travel break, right?
Because I had been traveling two, three weekends a month to, to speak at events
and to teach and whatever, and, um, that had gotten to be a lot.
I was, I was getting tired of being, you know, being a road warrior all the time.
Yeah.
Um, but I really, really like my, my, my national and now international
group of cannabis family, like the people I would see at events.
And so it was cool to have a break for a while, but now the break
has gone longer than I've needed.
You know, um, I am, um, you know, I, uh, because I'm a, I'm a high risk
patient because I've got severe asthma.
Um, you know, I'm not rushing to go like, you know, um, MJ biz is coming up soon.
And like, you know, like, uh, I was certainly not going to that this year.
Right.
Um, because I am an at risk patient.
Right.
Uh, but, but I really wish I, I was going to an event, you know, I really
wish cultivate cultivation classic in Portland, you know, that's the hall of
flowers too.
Yeah.
I, I skipped that too.
And so, so, um, but I miss those hugs, man.
I really miss seeing the cannabis people and being, you know, smiling with them
and, and, you know, going outside and token and then walking around and talking
with vendors.
Like I really, really miss the extended community.
And I love my Vashon community too.
And I have been very focused on, you know, working on stuff here, but, um, but
it, you know, it would be nice to, to go some cool places and do some cool stuff.
Yeah.
I totally feel you.
Yeah.
It's I'm ready whenever the time is right.
Um, and this is a good time to kind of switch a little bit here.
You know, we've been talking about, um, how all of this is developed and the
work that you've been doing, but I do want to spend some time just talking
about, you know, the, the show, the Curious About Cannabis podcast.
I want to talk about what makes you curious about cannabis.
Um, and so, uh, you know, I'll just lay out one basic question related to the
podcast and then spend on other things, but, um, what are some insights that
stand out to you that you've gained from all of the people that you've talked to,
you know, over the past four years or so on the podcast, what are some notable
things that stood out to you that, um, uh, maybe changed your perspective a
little bit or that you just were totally unaware of that, that kind of blew your
mind, but what are some, uh, kind of the more significant insights that you've
gained from doing Shaping Fire?
Well, I would say one thing for sure would be understanding how different
each human's body is this idea of individualized medicine.
Yeah.
Um, I really kind of thought that cannabis was the same for everybody.
And that's like wildly untrue.
Um, how P how people react to different terpene profiles, how people, um, you
know, cannabis is, is biphasic, right?
Meaning you can take a little bit of THC, which will reduce your anxiety.
But if you take beyond your personal threshold, it will cause anxiety.
Right.
And because of cannabis is biphasic nature.
Um, we're all, we all have different thresholds.
And so, um, you know, somebody big, get the relief they need with the
tiniest little puffy puff, whereas somebody else is going to be like pulling
tubes and blown clouds to get where they need based on what, you know, how many
receptors they have and, and, and how busy those receptors are.
And so.
The understanding that each patient needs to be addressed uniquely and without
carrying over too many assumptions, that was good for me to learn as a, as a health
educator, but it was also good for me for just generally realizing that I should.
Not generalize people entirely, um, to respect each person's individual nature.
Um, and I kind of got to that through trying to help people relieve their, you
know, their, their body issues and just realizing that, oh, you know, um,
everybody's different and on a lot of issues, not just their medicine
and not to assume I know folks.
So that was a, that was a breakthrough thing for me.
Um, another one was I had no idea.
I was so interested in soil science.
Uh, yeah.
Um, when, when, when I first started cultivating, it was just like, take
the bag, soil, put it in, you know, throw in some kind of nutrients
from the store and grow a plant.
That's great.
Um, but then I started, you know, talking to, um, what would become known
as the regenerative scene people and realizing the magic of all the biological
life in the rhizosphere and the protozoa and the microbes and how these folks get
along and how for me, one of the first things I realized was that, um, you know,
we get cold early in the season.
Right.
So, so we've already had, it's, it's, it's like the second week of October
coming into the second week of October.
Now I've already had 50 degree nights for four weeks.
And, and I did until I started learning about soil that I realized that the
soil and the containers were going to sleep, the microbes and everything
were sisting up and then the plants would just go to mold.
So it wasn't that, oh, my, my plants were unhealthy and then I got mold.
It's that the soil went to sleep, which signaled to the plant that, that we're
done for the season and so you should mold for the cycle of life.
Yep.
Well, that was fascinating to me.
And so next thing, you know, I'm, I'm, I'm reading everything I can on, um,
on soil science and regenerative, you know, growing techniques and, and, and,
um, um, creating your own inputs on your own property.
And, uh, you know, when it comes to shaping fire, the guests that I have,
um, very much are based on what I'm interested in learning next.
You know, and, uh, and luckily the show, the show's at a point now where, um,
you know, everybody, everybody takes my call.
Right.
So it's cool.
I can, I can, I can reach out to whoever and say, Hey, would you come on the show
and talk about this thing that I would like to learn about?
And, you know, everybody's like, yeah, that would be great.
And, um, and I think that, I think that because I don't fake that, I know all
this stuff before the show.
Um, I think the audience digs that because people, it's very common for people to
say, um, I like that we're learning so much together and cause like, you know,
you know, some, some podcasts, they pretend that they know everything and
they, you know, they'll, they'll even talk over the guest and try to tell,
like tell the guest story.
It's like, I'm much more of a, like.
Get my mouth.
I keep quiet and try to let the guest to tell their truth and then ask good
questions.
Um, and then when I learned something like, you know, it's common for me to go
like, oh, I never got that before.
And this is how you, and then you can almost feel my audience going, oh, me too.
Yes.
And so, um, you know, um, I'm not, I'm not going to front for a second that I
know all of this stuff, you know, after doing, you know, four years of my own show
and then another 105 episodes before that for God, entrepreneur.com, you know,
I've done over, you know, 200 episodes and I've been doing this for like five
years or so.
I know a lot now.
Um, but, uh, I learn new stuff on every episode because that's why I do those
topics so I can learn.
That's, that's perfect.
I mean, and having that lifelong learner mentality, um, I think is great.
I mean, that's something I'm always trying to promote, um, that regardless of
whatever niche you've specialized in that you know a lot about, there's always so
much more to learn.
Um, and, uh, to maintain that curiosity, um, is great.
It keeps us humble too, right?
Exactly.
Yeah.
It keeps you humble too.
Yeah.
You, as soon as you start, you think you know everything, you know, not, not only
will you stop learning, but you'll probably also start being a prick.
Exactly.
Yes.
That's, uh, yeah.
Some of the biggest assholes you'll meet in the industry are those that have a
little bit of knowledge that think they know a lot.
Um, and I think that's called what the, uh, like Dunning-Kruger effect or
something, there's actually a, um, a model for that, that you can look up.
There's a graph, anyone listening that wants to look it up, you can actually see,
uh, this theory, um, related to knowledge acquisition and confidence.
And, um, you know, when you get a little bit of knowledge, you often
overestimate how much you know.
When you have a lot of knowledge, you generally underrepresent how much, you
know, because you've become humbled, um, and recognize that, you know, even the
things I think I know a lot about, you know, who knows, there's always more
rabbit holes and, and new, new things to shine light on and everything.
Um, and one thing I wanted to make sure that we spent time on, cause I know that
you're really into regenerative agriculture now and something we talked
about before we started recording that I found really fascinating was that you've
been trying to figure out how it might be possible to take, uh, you know,
permaculture, regenerative agriculture principles, um, and take them from the
outdoor cultivation environment and find ways to integrate them in the
indoor cultivation environment.
Um, so before we wrap up, I definitely wanted to make sure to
spend some time, um, speaking on that.
So I know we've talked about a little bit already off camera, but, um, can you
share a little bit about your recent, um, indoor, uh, cultivation foray and,
um, what you learned from that experience?
Yeah.
So I've got to admit, I, um, I have evolved my thinking.
And, um, again, another thing that makes one, uh, humble.
Yes.
Uh, so, so for years I have been a proponent of only outdoor.
Um, I think that the quality of the medicine that comes out of outdoor plants
that are grown under the sun is higher than indoor because the wider spectrum
of light, um, uh, means that we are, um, uh, creating a wider terpene profile,
a, a, a stronger cannabinoid profile, and just generally the plants thrive better.
Um, Um, I understand the appreciation of indoor from its, uh, connoisseur
level, bag appeal and beauty, but that's a different topic.
Um, I really liked the medicinal value of outdoor plants and, um, I also
didn't have a place to grow indoors.
And so I was, I was, you know, I was an outdoor guy because that's all I had
access to and, and I, you know, I believe the gospel of Northern California outdoor
that that's like, you know, that's the best way to go.
And so that's what I've practiced.
Um, you know, and, and, and over the years I have increased my soil knowledge
and using natural inputs and, you know, natural farming techniques and KNF.
And, and so I've got a, you know, I've got a pretty good sense of what I'm doing
outdoors now and, um, and keeping my soil alive over the year and, and using that
same thriving soil the following year.
So that's great.
Um, however, uh, it became important to me to, um, do two things.
Number one, I needed new things to explore on the Instagram, the shaping
fire Instagram, you know, I've got, I've got like, what, like 11,000 followers.
And, um, and you know, I'm trying to always provide healthful tidbits.
Well, that's a lot harder to do if you're an outdoor grower during the winter.
And I'm like, you know, let's see if I can, let's see if I can do this stuff indoors.
And so, um, I, uh, uh, in this new house that I moved into last year, I've got,
I've got a little bit of room.
So I just set up a simple four by four tent and I'm a big fan of letting
the plant roots talk to each other.
And so instead of making individualized containers, um, I set up a really nice
four foot by four foot by, um, uh, 20 inch deep bed, and then, um, I used the,
um, the layered biomimicry soil technique that, um, was taught by that's taught
by Leighton Morrison, um, on my show.
And, and so I asked him to get involved to make sure I did the bed, right.
And I wild crafted all my ingredients, inputs, which was a pain in the ass.
And, um, I it's funny, I highly recommend it for quality of flower, but I don't
recommend it for the amount of hassle.
Um, like I never realized that wild crafting silt was going to be so damn hard.
And so, and so anyway, so I wild crafted everything for the bed.
And built it out.
And, um, and then, um, because in my head, like I understand that there are
indoors, there's lots of options, right?
There's, you know, there's, there's hydro, there's Rockwell cubes, there's
all this other kind of stuff, but, but none of those are really how I do things.
I, um, um, I, I like the, uh, you know, um, Jeff Lohenfels says, you know, if,
if a worm can't live in it, it's not really a growing medium.
And like, I know that, I know that it's, it's up for argument and, and, you know,
and, and I'm not trying to pick a fight with the, with the Rockwell people, but,
but for me, that's where my head is is I wanted to use real soil
biology because I'm a soil nerd.
And so, um, so I wanted to, I started bringing in as many of the techniques
that I could find from outdoors, indoors.
And, um, didn't, you know, didn't I first run and I found, um, uh, I, I, I found
lights that I really liked.
I liked their spectrum.
I liked the, the company's philosophy.
Um, and that's, uh, that's bios lighting.
They make, um, they make really good lights for both humans and for, and for
cultivation, they're actually a NASA spinoff company that their scientists
helped develop the, um, the led growing setups for the space station, which as,
as a, as an odd thing, I actually used to work on, I was, I was going to say, yeah.
Yeah.
That's a funny thing to mention back.
I used to live in Colorado for a while, uh, in, uh, late nineties.
And, uh, I worked for a technology company there that was making RFID
devices for a space hub.
What was the original name for the space station?
And so, um, you know, stuff that I have touched, um, is, you know, theoretically
still up in the space station.
So that's cool.
So anyway, got off the, got off the point, but the, the, the first run out of the
was like the best things I have ever grown in my life.
And like, I recognize how difficult that is too, as a, as a devout outdoor guy
that I grew this stuff indoor.
That is without a doubt, the best weed that I had ever grown.
And honestly, it was like the top.
Five things I had ever even smoked.
Wow.
And I'm like, Oh, and what I realized was how limited I am by how short and
crappy our summers are where I live here in the Pacific Northwest.
Um, you know, um, if, if you think about it, a, a simple eight week flowering
period, if, if, if, if the plants start to flower here around August 15th,
that's October 15th, we are soaked and cold by October 15th.
Yeah.
Really?
We only really get about five weeks of growing season before
things start going to hell.
Then I realized that, um, I'm actually a lot better grower than I thought I was.
It was that I was trying to grow well in a poor environment.
So as soon as I took those same regenerative techniques and brought them
indoors, um, I hit it out of the ballpark.
Well, that made me feel really good.
You know, year after year of getting beaten down by the bad weather, right?
Yeah.
I feel like a schmuck, you know, I'm like, ah, you know, someday I'll be decent.
You know, I'll just, I'll just keep on learning and keep on plugging away.
And then I grow once indoors and it's like, Holy smokes.
And, and so that, that made me feel good.
Um, and so, um, I'm still torn, right?
Because, um, it really, it was really satisfying to me to grow flowers that I
could never finish here indoors and have them finish beautifully, like really
finish, not like, oh, it needed 10 more days outdoor, right?
But we can take it now.
That's what I've been.
Yeah.
Well, that stuff's still, you know, that stuff's still great to process
into tinctures and RSO and stuff like that.
But it's not like fun to smoke, you know?
Um, you know, because it's, it's just not there, but the
indoor stuff is definitely there.
So, so I've, I'm at this new point now where, um, I am
absolutely a lover of outdoor.
But because of where I live, I absolutely see the need for indoor.
But if I'm going to do indoor, I'm not going to be using bottles and rock
wool and A and B formulas and stuff.
Right.
I am going to be using like, like whole nature, soil additives,
wild crafted when I can do it responsibly, but otherwise, you know,
um, you know, build a soil, you know, gives out, you know, sells a
lot of really great inputs, you know?
And, uh, you know, get stuff from like there and, um, and then leaving
the only real problem for me, the fact that I'm using electricity, right.
For my lights, which, um, you know, um, I try to, you know,
have a small carbon footprint.
And I'm somewhere in between a, I use so little electricity in the rest of my
life and my carbon footprint is so small that if, if I'm going to choose to.
Spend my allotment of electricity on the lights.
That's my decision to make.
Yeah.
And, and so I do that, but even more importantly, um, I am
aggressively researching and continuing to talk to, um, uh, solar people,
because I think that when the day comes that we can, um, you know, capture
the sun and put it in batteries and have that push enough juice to run
led lights, it will absolutely remake the home grower industry.
Yeah.
I totally agree.
So, um, I, I believe that that time is soon.
I don't think it's far away.
And so, um, so, you know, am I totally comfortable with, you
know, using lights to grow indoors?
No, but, um, I picked good led lights that don't use a lot of electricity.
I am producing my own medicine, which I think is legit.
And, um, as soon as there is a, a, a real opportunity to, you know, Teach
using solar at home for home grow.
I will have that show first.
You know, I will be all into it.
So, so, so yeah, I think this transition place where, um, I am a devout outdoor
grower who now has fallen in love with indoor and, uh, you know, I'm, I'm wildly
excited about my second cycle coming up here.
So.
That's super cool.
And what did you, uh, what did you grow for your, um, for this first
round of indoor experimentation?
Yeah.
So, um, so I'm, before I go into it, um, people will be like, probably shocked
that I'm going to name five plants.
Um, this was part of my learning curve.
Five plants is way too many for a four by four tent.
Um, so we will, we will definitely cause, you know, tie that up to a learner's error.
I just wanted variety.
I wanted to finish five different things so I could try five different things, but
it was, it like overgrew like crazy.
Um, with it, with that, um, the, the.
I grew the, the, the, the hot, hot Bickett OG that has been, it was bred by a Nick
rise to net lime rising farm.
That's a cross of a GMO and cherry pie.
It is a, an absolutely delightful strain.
And then, um, um, I was, uh, given seeds, um, that were bred by my good friend and
very popular cannabis guy, Michael Hinden, who, um, who died a year ago now.
Um, um, as a matter of fact, I was on my way to pick up these seeds.
Um, when I found out that he had been murdered, um, the prior day, and, um, I
was like at the airport, um, going down to meet with Layton Morrison in, in, um,
in Southern California, and then we were going to drive over to, uh, Hindi's house.
And then I found out that, that he has.
And, and so there, there was a lot of grieving there, but then, um, you know,
his business partner, you know, uh, widow, um, Brianna reached out to me and she
said, Hey, you know, um, I knew it was going to do this thing with you and he
was going to give you seeds for the patients on Vashon, and I still want to
continue on with the things that, that Michael wanted to do.
And so, um, she sent me, um, almost a complete set of, of the modern
epigenetics first release and they're all runs crosses.
And so that became extra special, right?
Because not only are these crosses that I was hot to grow, but it was like Michael,
right, this is Michael's work.
And so it became a real, um, um, um, you know, labor of love for lack of a better
term.
And so, uh, um, we grew, um, I grew, uh, Michael's secret stuff, which is GMO
runs, and then also, um, um, uh, uh, jet fuel, OG runs, uh, called private jet.
And that's a stinker.
That's a really great plan.
The Michael secret, the Michael secret stuff is a good plan.
Cause I like GMO, but the jet fuel OG runs, it was just like nasty and caustic
it's really great.
And then, um, and then, um, the two opposite corners grew a, um, uh, land
race, uh, Acapulco gold.
Oh, wow.
Um, which, um, which was okay.
It didn't turn out as nicely as I had hoped it would.
It was beautiful.
It just didn't have a lot of nose to it.
Yeah.
And then, um, and then I ran CSI Humboldt, uh, UK cheese Skittles cross, which is
really great.
So I'm not, you have sold.
I'm not UK cheese Skittles, uh, Obama.
Okay.
Yeah.
Um, cause I've always liked the Obama strain.
So anyway, so yeah, but the, the funny thing is, is that big, you know, G is
just a monster, right?
You put the big, you know, G in a four by four and it turns into a cage fight.
You know, the big, it like overgrew everything else and you know, so that
was really difficult.
So, so I'm very much excited.
I'm going to, I'm going to Scrogg.
Yeah.
And I think I'm just going to stick to three plants, which is probably
still more than I should have.
But my goal is to grow them and then just weave them back and forth.
Yeah.
See how that goes.
You know, one of the cool things that like, since, since I'm not cultivating
for profit, I'm cultivating for medicine.
And so that I have like things to take photographs of to put on the Instagram.
Um, um, I can embrace my screw ups.
Yes.
Yeah.
It isn't like, Oh, if I did this wrong, I can't pay rent.
Well, I'm not, I'm not using that to pay rent.
I pay rent from the advertising on the show, you know?
And so, um, I, I can really embrace my mistakes and go, Oh, well I, I F that up.
You know?
Right.
And let's all learn from it.
And then, yeah, yeah.
Look at this stupid thing I did.
And, you know, because I was, I was naive or I just didn't have the experience.
And so I use those, you know, those things to teach, but, um, Very, very much love
indoor now and, um, and now, and now I'm like, you know, plotting what plants I'm
going to do this cycle after the next cycle, you know, I've got, I've got indoor
fantasies.
Now you've been hooked.
Yes.
I have absolutely been hooked and constantly now, like, even though I don't
have any more room in my house, other than this four by four tent, I'm already
thinking, how could I, how could I do a whole room?
Like, you know, two or three plants is great, but I'd really love to do like a
full patient card of 15, you know, that's, that's not where I'm at right now.
So that's okay.
We'll see where it goes.
And have you, have you played around with, um, auto flowers at all?
Oh yeah.
Well, um, I, I fell in love with auto flowers and became a big proponent of them
about three years ago.
Um, as soon as I learned what an auto flower was, um, by, uh, you know, by, by, by
going into the fields in Oregon, actually in Oregon, near you, um, Oregon CBD seeds.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Seth and Eric Crawford, right.
Good friends of mine.
And so their first auto was a, was a, um, all CBD hemp cultivar called RNA.
Really nice auto.
And when I was there and they explained to me how they're, how.
They're not dependent on the sun.
They're dependent on, you know, their length of light and that they
automatically mature and flower.
I'm all like, holy hell.
Hi, patients everywhere.
That is not California needs these.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Because, um, so many of the genetics are designed for California weather.
And then, and then we don't have California weather in most
of the rest of the country.
And so the idea that, um, you know, we can start something, you know, June 1st
and harvest it middle of September when we're all still in drought, that was like.
And so, uh, I immediately dug into that hard.
Um, um, I started hunting out auto flower breeders and putting them on my show and,
um, uh, hunting out seeds so that I could grow and take pictures and learn myself.
And, um, um, hooked up with Jeff Lohenfels, who, um, put out a book on auto flowers
and, uh, told him that when the book came out, I wanted to have him on, on my show
for his first interview and that was cool.
He actually invited me to write something for the jacket on the jacket of the book.
So that's cool.
And, uh, and, uh, as we talked earlier, you know, I did a lot of traveling to teach
about cannabis and I was usually being booked to talk about something patient
oriented, right.
And so my, I guess this would have been two or two, three years ago.
I don't know.
In COVID days, everything matches.
I know.
Yeah.
But, but, but.
You know, about a year and a half before we started all the, the COVID stuff.
Um, I was just touring, going to conventions and teaching auto flowers, which, you know,
historically have a pretty bad reputation because the past seeds have been low
yield, pretty, pretty weak, but like the new generation of seeds are fantastic.
And, you know, they're not going to get to be monster plants that, you know, we all
still love, but like most people don't have the weather to grow those monster
plants or, or at least to finish them.
Right.
Yeah.
You might be able to grow a monster plant, but are the plant, are the
flowers ever going to finish?
Yeah.
Not most places in the country.
So anyway, I kind of took the, the auto flower gospel on the road.
And, um, and I reached out to lots of auto flower seed companies.
And I said, Hey, do you want to sponsor my talk?
And all it takes for you to sponsor the talk is to send me a box of seeds that I
can give away to patients after the talks.
And of course they're like, hell yeah, shango.
And so all these, all these folks sent me seeds and I, you know, I asked everybody,
Hey, will you throw in a couple extra for me so I can grow them and, and put
pictures on, on Instagram and I'll send you traffic and they're like, yeah, we're
good with that.
So, so I would go to all these, all these cities and give my talk about auto
flowers and then say, you know, if you are a patient, come up and get a seed pack.
If you have, if you are not a patient, um, don't come get a seed pack, go, go buy
one from one of these seed providers, go out on the floor and buy them at the show.
But if you know, if you're a legit, if you consider yourself a legit patient, come
get packs.
And it was great.
Pat, like patients are usually neglected, right?
They're, you know, especially at trade shows because they've got no money to spend
usually.
Right.
Yeah.
And so suddenly they're, they're, they're the ones getting the free stuff and it was
like high quality, good seeds.
And, um, so that was really good.
And it may, and it felt good.
It's good to be the conduit for that kind of love from the, from the breeders to the,
to the patients.
And, um, and so, uh, I'm very grateful that the auto flower community has embraced me.
And, uh, even though I'm not a breeder, all I want to do is, is help spread their
gospel and, and why you should buy their seeds.
So, you know, um, and, um, and I think they get that my heart's in the right place.
You know, I'm not, I'm not trying to make anything from the scene.
I, I just want to make what I want to make their art history more popular.
And, and we've done a great job.
So that's really great.
I am, um, you know, even though, um, auto flowers still tend to get a lot of
flack by a certain kind of grower.
Um, I'm really honored to be, you know, one of the people, um, at the, at the
forefront of teaching auto flowers.
Absolutely.
I mean, it's super fascinating to me for some of the very reasons that have come
about in, um, just talking about your experimentation with indoor and everything.
Um, just thinking about how you translate cannabis cultivation to other places.
Um, other than California and the lower half of Oregon, um, you know, we have to,
um, expand our, um, conceptions of, you know, of all of these things and recognize,
like you said, that everywhere's not California.
Um, having that sort of arid environment and these long, you
know, summers and everything.
Um, that's not going to be the case.
And I mentioned before the interview started that I'm from the Southeast.
And so I'm keeping my eyes on, you know, Tennessee, North Carolina, Arkansas, all
these places that are, that hemp's starting to get big.
So they're jumping into large fields of cannabis cultivation and are recognizing
like, oh no, like this doesn't, this doesn't quite translate everything I've
been reading and all these books and everything, it doesn't quite match up.
Um, and so seeing experimentation with auto flowers, um, I find particularly
fascinating from that perspective.
How can auto flowering, uh, varieties be used in places that typically do get a
little more humid that the rainy season start really early, um, or in places
where, you know, you get these cold fronts that come really early, seeing how that
can be a bridge to, especially because as places legalize cannabis, they usually
don't let you bring cannabis from other places, uh, other states.
And so you're stuck with, you know, in whatever state you're in, once it goes
medical or, you know, full adult use legal, you've got to work with the climate
and situation you have, which is one reason why people often retreat.
I say retreat, that's not the best way to put that, but they, they tend to default
back to indoor because they just figure outdoor isn't even an option.
So, um, it'll be interesting to see if auto flowers, as they get bred and
improved upon, cause they've definitely changed a lot since like the nineties.
Um, I remember back in the day, like the old, um, like high times magazines and
stuff, you know, you'd start to see advertisements for auto flowers for
closet grows, um, you know, so that the plants would be small enough that you
could keep in a, uh, a little grow box or, uh, you know, people used to grow in
like, uh, PC cases, you know, that they would outfit, uh, to grow plants in.
And so seeing auto flowers come from that, you know, kind of early start to
where it is now is just really fascinating to see.
And it's got me really, especially from a scientific perspective, I'm like, I
want to do trials with auto flowers and start to look at the biochemistry of
these things and, and see if we notice any interesting things in some of these
genetics that we don't see in other things.
Um, cause you never know until you look.
Um, so, um, yeah, that's all fascinating and something I definitely wanted to
to check on cause it seems like for a place like Washington, that would
definitely be the way to go as far as outdoor cultivation.
For sure.
I mean, the, the, some of the early auto flowers that I was growing were like a
hundred days, but, but this summer I got to grow a bunch of 60 days.
Wow.
Wow.
Like that's fantastic.
Fantastic auto flowers that were 60 days.
And, um, you know, they're not big plants, but you know, just like when we
were talking earlier about individualized medicine for patients.
You need individualized genetics for growers.
Yes.
You know, a lot of patients, you know, okay, great.
It's, it's wonderful that they could potentially grow a 12 foot plant, but how
the hell are they going to take that down?
You know, people with mobility issues or who are growing in a backyard and they
don't want to get their stuff ripped.
Right.
Yep.
For there, there are, there are particular growers that growing a two and a half,
three foot, maybe a four foot plant that's going to stay short.
Um, but maybe they grow a few more of them.
So they have some variety.
There are people who, who don't need the traditional monster plant
because that's not what they need.
And so in the same way that we talk about individualized medicine, I like to
talk about individualized cultivation.
It isn't that one's one seeds are necessarily better than their other.
It is the, the seeds highest use for that particular cultivator.
And, um, you know, I think it's another other way that we as educators can
encourage people to, uh, you know, be, be in service to, you know, the people
that we're trying to educate, whether or not they be, you know, people who
identify as patient growers or just home growers or, or, you know, extractors.
Right.
It's, it's all about, you know, being in service and so that the individual
cannabis enthusiast can choose which attributes of our scene work best for
them.
Yeah.
It's, I, it drives me nuts when people compare like growing styles, like
how you are growing is wrong.
Like, dude, you're talking to this guy on Facebook or Instagram.
How do you know any, any of the details of this person's needs?
Right.
Like, like person will figure out what works best for themself.
Don't worry about yelling at them that they're an idiot.
Absolutely.
I think that's that, that, uh, yeah, it kind of goes across the entire industry
in general.
Um, I think as the industry is like kicking off, um, and people are much more
public with their cannabis usage and growing and everything.
Yeah.
You see so much, uh, typical human dynamics, bickering and posturing and
comparing and everything.
And it's, it is important to make that note that everyone has their own
relationship and specific, uh, situation that they're in, that they're going to
find things that work for them.
And there are lots of options.
Um, and so getting caught up in trying to understand what's best, um, right away
is just kind of a, um, it's kind of a fool's errand.
Um, it's yeah.
What's best for you.
Um, is, is definitely a great message to get out there.
I also just glanced at the time, just noticed between, um, our cuts, we've
probably gone on for like an hour and a half here.
So I want to be respectful of your time.
Um, I apologize for not, um, noticing that sooner.
Um, but, uh, this has been a wonderful conversation, Shango.
And, um, I wish we could go on for another hour and a half or two because,
um, uh, especially as we get going here and comparing stories and stuff, um,
there's so much that's popping in my brain, memories and things from the past
10 years or so, um, that, uh, yeah, there's, there's so much to learn from,
uh, from where we've come from and, and where we're going.
And I guess the last question I'll pose to you is what do you
hope to see from the future?
Um, as cannabis, you know, I say the cannabis industry, but when I say the
cannabis industry, I really just mean the widespread proliferation and
normalization of, of cannabis, you know, broadly, whether that's in the legal
market or home growing or, you know, whatever manifestation that has, but
what do you hope to see from the future of the cannabis industry as we move into,
you know, the next several years, five years or so?
Well, start with the most difficult thing that I would like to see.
And, um, I would like to see, um, uh, more states adopt and hold a one
acre cap, like they were supposed to have in California, but then the lobbyists
got beaten up so that people are now stacking licenses in California.
Because originally there was supposed to be a window of opportunity for small
heritage growers and family farms to get well-established in the market before
the big commoditized cannabis companies were supposed to be able to, to do
anything in California and, um, effective lobbying by, uh, big money.
Um, totally made that disappear just one night in the morning it was gone and no
one was willing to talk about how that happened.
And so I'm hoping that, um, as we see the rise and strengthen of the MSOs,
these multi-state operators, which are essentially like, you know, McDonald's
for weed, right?
That the quality is, is, is not, you know, what it could be.
And, um, it really commodifies the whole thing.
Um, I hope that, that many states learn from the California mistake and they
create situations in their states that, that is the opposite of what they're
doing now, which is trying to beckon these multi-state operators so that they
can deal with fewer providers, um, and just make the whole thing easy for
themselves instead of doing the thing that should be done, which is letting
small players grow in their state and then exporting those companies to, into
other states that did not do a one acre cap.
Um, I'm asking a lot in that, I know.
Um, but that's the, that's the number one thing for me is I would love to see
something happen where the small guy can start to compete more effectively
with these, with these MSOs.
Um, second, no surprise.
I'm super excited to see the future of auto flowers.
And, um, and, um, you know, cause we're still very early in the process and, and,
and so much has happened in such a short amount of time.
And now that this is the pool that I'm swimming in more, um, you
know, than, than photo periods.
Um, you know, I still keep my hand in photo periods, but, but really I think,
um, for, for the, the regular home grower and patients, the future is auto flower.
And so, um, I'm very excited to see what happens there.
And then, um, I'm also, uh, excited with the, what do we want to say?
Like, like the standardization of cannabis knowledge, because right now
there's still a lot of bro science in the teaching of the endocannabinoid system.
And, you know, people, you know, like, uh, you know, people, they thinking
they need an Indica for this and a sativa for that, when Indica and
sativa is a, is a false thing.
It doesn't even exist in reality.
It's just shorthand because people aren't educated properly enough.
And as, as, um, you know, prohibition continues to melt away into some
kind of normalized thing, um, I look forward to people more uniformly
understanding how cannabis can help them and relieve their symptoms so that
people are doing less trial and error and more, Oh, I'm using the best practices
that we already learned and shared.
Yeah.
So I would say those three things are the things that, um, you know, are, are
three of the things that I'm most excited to see come.
Yeah.
And I mean, those are huge.
You know, that first one you mentioned, I know it's a, it's a big ask, but I
completely agree because once again, I mean, I saw similar things happen in Oregon.
You know, I starting in these labs and getting to know these medical growers
and these small farms and small businesses, um, you get emotionally invested
in wanting to see them succeed as the industry is starting to come about.
And then when you see them get totally crushed and basically no hope of being
able to participate in any way, um, I mean, it's not just sad, like it's, it's wrong.
It's, it's just wrong.
Um, and so I'm, I'm, I want to just echo that, that, um, absolutely.
That's something that needs to get more attention as more and more states, um,
change their laws.
Um, cause I, I do worry that we're already kind of knee deep in this process
of kind of excommunicating all of the folks who got us to this point, basically
the people that took the risk early on, uh, participating in either straight
out black market or gray, you know, gray market areas that stuck through medical
all the way up to recreational.
And now we're trying to decide what to do to make a living because, you know, it
doesn't seem like growing is going to do it anymore.
Those I'm, I'm sad to hear more and more and more of those stories as more time
goes on, a lot of people in Oregon, I know lots of good, great growers that
have abandoned growing, um, because the money's just not there anymore.
Um, so, um, yeah, I, I totally feel that.
So that one in particular, I just want to make sure people are really thinking
about, especially if anyone listening to this has any, um, sway in any of these
states that are, you know, uh, currently discussing legislative changes.
Um, yeah, all great things.
Um, and you know, I also want to make sure to give you a chance here in the
last few minutes, let everybody know, um, how to find Shaping Fire, the
website, social media accounts.
It's all fairly easy because if anyone looks for Shaping Fire, they should find
you.
Um, but as I'll do the, I'll do the plugs anyway.
Yeah, do the plugs.
Yeah, the plugs.
Uh, so, uh, the, the center of the Shaping Fire universe is at shapingfire.com.
You can listen to the podcast episodes there.
You can sign up for the newsletter there as well.
Um, uh, we do cool, cool contests for people who are subscribed to the
newsletter.
So I recommend that you, uh, you sign up for that.
Um, the, the at shaping fire Instagram is incredibly popular.
Um, that's where I do, um, you know, most of my teaching, both successes and
failures, and, um, you know, let you know about some of the stuff I've found in,
um, you know, regenerative growing technique or, um, or new products that
I'm into, whatever.
So the Instagram's, um, uh, pretty popular.
Now I also have a personal Instagram at shango Lowe's that's also got, you know,
10,000 followers or whatever.
And that's a little bit less about the show and a little bit more about, you
know, farm tours that I've gone on.
And, um, um, just like more interesting things about like me as another
cannabis enthusiast, that stuff that doesn't necessarily fit the shaping fire
brand.
Um, I also want to plug the shaping fire YouTube channel, which is really
different because, um, even though there are certainly, um, uh, the, the audio
files from the, the shaping fire podcast are there for you to listen to as well.
The reason people love the shaping fire YouTube channel is because that's where
I post all of my random videos from doing shaping fire.
So you'll get, um, you know, lots of farm tours, farm tour outtakes.
When I go to conventions, everything that I see at the convention, I record all of
those speakers and bring them home for people who don't have access to it.
The YouTube channel was nothing that I like intended to do.
It was just that when I got home from traveling, I had all these videos, where
the hell am I going to put them?
And so I just started dumping them onto the YouTube channel.
And now like, you know, um, there are, there are hundreds of videos there.
And, um, you know, we've got, you know, 10 or 13,000 subscribers.
And, um, and I think we just recently hit like, you know, our 1 millionth viewer.
So, so it's really popular.
And so that's, so that's kind of fun.
And, um, yeah, I think that's it.
So, but the center of that universe is shaping fire.com.
And honestly, if you just put shaping fire in Google, you'll find it all.
Yeah.
Um, before we go, I also want to thank you, Jason.
You know, I, I, I absolutely see why you got feedback from people
that you and I should talk.
Yeah.
Um, I have enjoyed, I have enjoyed this interview a great deal, which is not
something I can always say when I'm on shows, um, but you're, you're, um, we
do have a similar warm cadence and thoughtful approach to interviewing.
And I absolutely see why people suggested that we meet because I too share your,
your experience of, of feeling an immediate kinship with you and like
we could talk for hours and hours.
So, so hopefully when, when all this COVID bullshit is done, um, we can
have time to get together and do that.
Oh yeah, absolutely.
I mean, something I'm, uh, planning to do whenever it's safe to do.
I had actually planned to do it the year COVID hit was I, I wanted to hit the road
and travel around, meet with a lot of people that I had already been meeting
for the podcast and everything, do some onsite, you know, live videos and all
of that sort of stuff and no, that came crashing down and then I was like,
okay, maybe 2021 that'll happen.
Um, no, it didn't happen again.
So, uh, we'll see about 2022, but at some point I will be getting on the road
and trying to connect with folks and, um, you know, see what...
It'd be great to have you up here for a Vimeo meeting.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Uh, once we, once we restart those, I think you'd really enjoy the vibe scene.
It even, our meetings are even in an old log Grange Hall.
Yes.
Nice.
It's very, it's very old school, rural romantic, dude.
It's really great.
Yes.
No, definitely.
Definitely.
When we start doing those, I'll send you an invitation when we start those back up.
Absolutely.
And then, um, you know, there's definitely when in-person curious about cannabis
events, start, uh, getting going again.
Once again, whenever that happens, um, I'll definitely be reaching out to you
to, um, connect over that kind of stuff too, because, um, yeah, I'd love to be
able to talk to you again and work with you any way we can, uh, it's been
a great pleasure on my end.
Right on.
I feel the same way.
Thank you very much for the invitation.
Absolutely.
All right, everybody that's listening.
Uh, thanks so much for tuning in as always.
And if you want to learn more about curious about cannabis, similarly, if
you search for curious about cannabis, you'll find us, our social media
tags are all over the place.
Um, but, uh, Instagram is really the main place to find us, um, at curious
about cannabis and, uh, the website CAC podcast.com.
And then we also have an app out, uh, now too, where you can kind of stay
connected to all of the curious about cannabis ecosystem stuff.
Um, and you can look for that.
Um, otherwise everyone out there as usual, stay curious and take it easy.
Bye bye everybody.
