There are few things in cannabis as frustrating as mold.
It's true.
All of your hard work can come crashing down by the sudden visual signs of powdery mildew
or botrytis molds.
It's enough to make you cry, chastise the source of your clones, and try to strike a
bargain with God.
There is so much misinformation out there about both powdery mildew and botrytis that
has been handed down from generation to generation of cannabis growers.
Now though, cannabis is attracting scientists and laboratories that can help sort out the
biology of these moldy menaces to society.
If you enjoy hearing frank discussions that dive deep into cannabis health, business,
and technique, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
Every week you'll receive a new podcast episode delivered right to your inbox along
with commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week and videos too.
Recent videos have included Kevin Jodry of Wonderland Nursery talking about breeding
cannabis for the best terpene profiles and my keynote address at the Imperius Expo in
Phoenix about why we choose cannabis business even though the risks are so high.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new podcast is published.
Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I'm your host, Shango Lose.
My guest today is Kevin McKiernan.
Kevin McKiernan is founder and chief science officer of Medicinal Genomics.
Medicinal Genomics made worldwide news in 2011 when it publicly released the first genome
sequence for cannabis sativa.
As a result of this work, Medicinal Genomics launched a suite of tools for the detection
of microbial contamination of cannabis.
Prior to Medicinal Genomics, Kevin was the team leader of R&D for the Human Genome Project
at the Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research at MIT.
One piece of vocabulary I want to point out for this week's episode, we use the term
labs a lot this week.
Sometimes we're referring to cannabis analytical laboratories, but most of the time we're
using the word labs as shorthand for a collection of living probiotic bacteria.
Originally referring only to lactic acid bacteria in organic growing, it's often used nowadays
to refer to a wide range of probiotic cultured microorganisms.
Welcome to the show, Kevin.
Thank you for having me, Shango.
This is quite an exceptional podcast.
I'm honored to be here.
Right on.
Thank you so much.
Kevin, this time of year, molds and mildews are being talked about by growers everywhere.
As the nights are getting colder and damp fog and rain starts to become more common
in the weather report, mold becomes more of a threat.
We'll talk about botrytis a bit later in the show, but easily the most common scourge that
everyone has to deal with is powdery mildew.
Biologically, what is powdery mildew?
Okay, so this evaded us for quite a bit.
I think the best resources to go to are a book from John McPartland and Dave Watson
and Robert Clark.
It has a great list of all these hemp diseases.
We marched through there trying to build DNA assays that could detect powdery mildew.
Why would anyone want to try and pick up this organism?
From what we've learned about what powdery mildew does in hops, which is the closest
relative to cannabis, is it has an infection cycle where when it first lands on the plant,
it actually builds what's known as a hostoria or a tap root into the plant where the spore
lands and then it builds a mycelium network.
This mycelium network is sometimes ... It's debatable whether it's in the plant or outside
of the plant, but it spreads that network across the plant.
It takes in hops sometimes 18 to maybe 40 days before it gets a stress event that makes
it make spores, which is the powder that you see.
Those spores are very hardy and they spread the disease.
We got brought in to try and figure out what this thing was by trying to build assays for
it.
We built some of these DNA assays going after the organisms that John was pointing us to,
which was L. torca.
They have an organism in there called S. macularis, but it's recently been renamed to P. macularis,
which stands for, I think, Potosphora macularis.
What are these things is your question.
These are obligate biotropes, which means that you can't culture them unless you have
leaves.
We tried that.
We tried putting them in cultures and that didn't behave.
You have to find a ... Grind up leaves or somehow and make it so that there's actually
some leaf cells in there for these things to culture.
An obligate biotrope also means that they're generally very much adapted to their host.
You tend not to see powdery mildews hopping species to species very much like you might
see with Botrytis.
You'll find powdery mildews that are very specialized.
The ones that are in grapes are known as Golovinomyces.
There's a vino in there.
The ones that are in hops is P. macularis.
We had some debates as to whether that was crossing over into cannabis.
It may be.
We've not yet found evidence for that yet.
When we dug into this, we built all of these assays hoping we'd find something that was
on grapes like Golovinomyces or these L. torcas, another one that's mentioned in the literature.
None of them worked.
We went down a bit of a rabbit hole trying to sequence the genome of this thing.
What we have found to date is we actually believe it's a novel species that's on cannabis.
It is something that is about 98% identical to P. macularis, which is on hops, and about
98% identical as well to Golovinomyces ambrosia, which is another powdery mildew that's out
there.
They're very interesting organisms, but as everyone knows, they can totally destroy your
crop.
However, you can detect them in advance of the sporulation stage where they make these
things known as conidia.
That's what we're aiming to do with this genetic test is to enable people to screen clones
or to screen their plants at a certain period of time and remove anything that has a positive
hit.
Maybe this will help people breed faster for resistance.
If you're screening for plants that have a lot of this on them, well, they're probably
susceptible to it unless you're picking up a single spore.
We've been trying to do some work where this test is fairly sensitive enough to pick up
these mycelium networks but doesn't get triggered by the spores.
That's not as hard to do as you might imagine.
The spores can last a winter.
They're really hardy and they're very hard to break.
Long story is there are different species pretty much in every organism you run into.
We don't see much evidence of this hopping species to species or host to host, I should
say.
This is the first time I've heard the anchor on the spore described.
That's probably one of the ways that people get confused about whether or not PM is systemic
to the plant or merely opportunist because I can imagine that the spore lands and it
creates that anchor which is probably breaking the, I guess, the derma of the plant.
Suddenly now it's also inside.
With that anchor idea, what is it biologically?
Is it systemic or is it opportunist and topical?
That's a good point.
The definition of systemic is usually reserved for something that might be circulating through
the thunzylum and phloem or in the bloodstream of HIV in humans.
I'd say it might be hard to claim that it's systemic.
Although I should say the experiments we have done have not necessarily nailed that.
What we have seen is that it can be present in the plant in a mycenae network where you
can't visibly see it.
The debate right now is whether that mycenae network is internal to the leaf or external
to the leaf.
For practical purposes, it may not matter.
It may be a bit of an academic question.
For screening purposes, there's not much use in a genetic test that picks up powdery mildew
after you can see it.
It's too late then.
You really want to get something that picks it up early.
That's the key to thwarting most infectious disease cycles is to actually have early detection
so that you can remove the plants that carry the infection from spreading it any further.
Kind of a quarantine and contain approach.
Ultimately, breeding for resistance I think is the right thing to do.
This may be a tool that helps accelerate that.
If you can find the plants that chronically have high levels of powdery mildew DNA on
them, those are most likely to be susceptible strains and you should pull them out of the
works.
There's a really good paper I'll point people to that maybe we can put into the show notes
from a gentleman by the name of Weeblen who did a lot of work to try and address this
systemic issue.
In that paper, they do mention systemic, but I think it might be a misuse of the term.
What they demonstrate is that they stain the DNA of this organism.
You can see the network of this mycelium.
It's really kind of beautiful to look at.
You can see that from a single spore that hits the leaf, it goes millimeters away, really
outside of the entire focal view of the image that they're taking.
These networks spread very, very quickly around the plant.
I think the unknown questions we have today are, well, how early can you actually pick
this up and how quickly does that mycelium network spread?
Are you going to get it 18 days before it outbreaks?
Are you going to get it 40 days?
These are unknowns in cannabis right now.
We've seen the work in hops and we're kind of drawing parallels from hops, but a lot
of the work in hops shows that P. macularis will have maybe 20 to 40 DPI, which is days
post infection when you tend to see the actual spores kick off from when they found the initial
infection of a spore.
That's a big gap and stress tends to accelerate this.
If you happen to get infected just before flowering or before flush, that's going to
bring out some of the spore relation events.
I can't help but chuckle when you tell me that the science is not fully decided on whether
or not it's systemic or merely topically opportunistic because there's so much arguing and gnashing
of teeth online between growers who know for sure one side or the other and everybody's
getting upset about it and you're saying, well, actually the science is still out and
we're still trying to figure that out.
What's it doing to the plant itself?
We know that when the plant is more stressed, it's more susceptible and then when the spore
has a stress event, it spreads.
What is it actually doing to the plant itself that is damaging the plant?
I think the stress signals that go throughout the plant probably trigger a tremendous amount
of secondary messenger signaling.
I think there has been evidence that when you get these types of priming responses with,
let's say, another fungal infection I've read about as Botrytis, you can see that there's
sometimes terpene expression that changes.
There is a host of other secondary messages that come out of the plant's immune system
that begin to respond to infection like this.
Unfortunately, to further complicate the matter, you'll find a lot of literature out there
that show co-infections of Botrytis and PM or Fusarium and Botrytis.
It seems that once the immune system's down, everyone piles on.
That actually was a really complicating factor for us in trying to sequence this genome because
so many times we were trying to scrape these spores off.
You can almost do it with a glass slide and get all types of powder outside of a slide.
We try to lyse those spores and sequence the genome, but we always get something else.
We always get like penicillium or all these other co-infections.
It's just because they happen to lyse more readily than the spores and they're coming
along for the ride.
It took us a long time of figuring out how to wash those spores off.
You have to really treat them with phenol to actually crack them open to get the DNA
and to sequence it.
Then when you finally do have that genome, it's never a perfectly pure genome of just
powdery mildew spores.
There's still some other contaminants there.
To make matters worse, these genomes tend to be about 100 to 180 million bases in size,
but they're 90% transposable elements, meaning it's repetitive as all hell.
It's really hard to put the genome back together once you do finally get the DNA.
It's been a bit of a frustrating rabbit hole, to be honest with you, but we only really
needed one really unique stretch of DNA in the genome that we could anchor a PCR target
for to pick this up.
Fortunately, we don't have to ask people to go and do this magical spore prep that we
were talking about to pick up the mycelium network.
The mycelium network is really easy to crack and easy to lyse.
We just do that with a single core, like a hole punch of a leaf.
A four millimeter hole punch of a leaf, we usually put two of those into each boil and
we just boil that DNA.
It pops open the mycelium network and we get enough DNA to then pick it up with one of
our color metric assays.
This is a PCR assay that changes color on you so that you don't need a detector for
it and you can run it in the field.
It's kind of like a ...
That makes it a really idiot proof.
Yeah, that's the intent.
At the same time, it's kind of like a pregnancy test.
It's plus minus.
It's not very quantitative at the moment.
When it changes color on you, we still don't have a good correlation with that color change
to how intensely infected the plant is.
What people really want is like, well, give me an estimate of the colony forming units
you might get as a comparison with this amount of DNA.
We just don't have those because we can't culture this thing.
Yeah, right on.
We're thinking about even making a quantitative version of it just for more research purposes,
but right now it's just dialed in to be as sensitive as we can get it with this color
metric assay.
It will get triggered by a single cell.
That much we know because we've targeted this at a part of the genome as a really high copy
number.
There's about 50 copies of this region of the genome.
A single score or a single cell will give us 50 targets to amplify from.
That seems to give it quite a bit of sensitivity.
Right on.
Let's jump back to when you were talking about how it spreads.
You described this stress event.
I'm sure that there are growers.
They know what causes their plants to stress, but are those always going to be the same
things that causes the spore to stress?
What specifically can make up the stress event that will cause the powdery mildew spores
to pop and spread throughout the garden?
Whatever those stresses are, as a grower, we'd want to reduce those to as low as possible.
Things that I've heard about, I don't have as much experience growing as many people
in your audience, but what I've been reading about through my book warming efforts here
on this genome is that it's usually a humidity effect or a temperature effect that stresses
it.
I've also been very fascinated in the microbiome in the plant.
There's a lot of evidence that trichoderma and other bacillus species can knock this
thing out.
I wouldn't be surprised if your root microbiome isn't healthy that you're going to have a
nutrient deficiency of some sort that may not be completely evident by a leaf color
but it may be deficient nonetheless and that can also trigger stress.
Some of the best biocontrols that are mentioned in the literature are, in fact, using trichoderma,
which is another fungus, but it happens to make chitinases and other enzymes that go
and destroy this thing.
Those are probably what are being emulated in a lot of these products that are on the
shelves that are not pesticide-based but are more enzyme and biocontrol agents that you
see.
Sure, sure.
As a matter of fact, people who are into living soils and probiotics and producing their own
labs and using milk instead of chemicals, this really does seem the direction that everybody's
going because a lot of the traditional antimolds, antifungals that people have used on plants
in the past, no one wants to touch that stuff anymore because it's going to ding them at
a pesticide test at the state level and suddenly they're going to lose their crop.
People seem to be more and more moving to work in tune with nature to rebalance their
leaf or to just straight out knock out the mold spores that way.
I think it's very key right now with all the extraction we have going on.
We've seen all these wonderful papers from many of the people that have been on your
cast before, whether it be Jeff Raber or Ethan Russo, that these pesticides tend to
hyper enrich in extraction.
We may get a couple, three or four fold increase in the cannabinoids but they're seeing 100
to 1,000 fold enrichments for some of these pesticides.
If people are using microbutanol to fight this, we really should change practices.
The one challenge in changing those practices is that if you do move to some probiotics,
you have to be very careful of what microbial test people are running because a lot of those
probiotics are going to trigger your total aerobic counts or your total yeast and mold
counts are going to go up.
We really need to work with the regulators to not penalize people for these organic practices
because trichoderma and bacillus shouldn't be a human threat.
They shouldn't be something that elevates your petri film counts.
We do a lot of work on that side of the fence as well.
We make quantitative PCR assays for microbial testing that a lot of the labs use in many
of the states and they tend to be dialed in and fairly specific.
In fact, our total yeast and mold test we have specifically does not hit PM and botrytis.
If it did, it would probably fail 30% of the samples out there.
That test, we've made sure the primers don't hit those because they're not human pathogens.
They're just plant pathogens and we can have separate tests to pick them up.
You probably want to pick those up at a different time.
You're not interested in whether you have botrytis or powdery mildew after you've harvested.
It's too late then.
You want to know about that maybe six weeks to eight weeks earlier.
We've consciously broken apart those tests so that they have different sensitivities
and they can be used at different times.
Right.
Well, we've got a lot more to talk about powdery mildew, but it's time to take our first short
break and re-write back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is Kevin McKernan, chief science officer
at Medicinal Genomics.
As a listener of Shaping Fire, you already understand the importance of living soil when
growing cannabis.
When you have active microbe communities in your substrate, you go way beyond simply fertilizing
with nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium.
Having active microorganisms in your substrate supports vigorous plant growth throughout
the plant's root zone, making for higher yields and thriving flowers.
Mammoth pea is the first organically derived microbial inoculant that focuses on your plant's
nutrient cycling processes to release soil phosphorus and other micronutrients from their
bound forms, making them more available to the plant.
Increased levels of phosphorus will also keep internodes shorter and focus your plant's
energy on bud production.
Not only that, but the microbes act as a defense shield for the plant's rhizosphere by outcompeting
potentially harmful pathogenic microbes.
Pretty cool, right?
Mammoth pea not only unlocks the nutrients in your soil, but it also helps protect your
plant from disease.
Mammoth pea's beneficial bacteria act like microbioreactors, continually producing enzymes
that release nutrients.
Mammoth pea was developed at a US university and has been extensively tested by Colorado
growers and independent laboratories.
Mammoth pea is proven to increase growth and enhance blooming.
One of the great things about supplementing with microorganisms is that they won't compete
with whatever fertilizer program you're already running.
Simply dose on top of your fertilizer schedule for increased benefits.
To learn more and to find out where you can buy mammoth pea near you, check out their
website at www.mammothmicrobes.com.
Partner with microorganisms to create beautiful, thriving cannabis.
Mammoth pea.
As cannabis normalization sweeps the country, knowledge of how to grow cannabis naturally
and without synthetic inputs has become more and more available.
In fact, probiotic growers are experiencing large yields and exceptional terpene profiles
without using chemicals banned in their state.
Move away from the risks inherent to chemical nutrients and instead invest in your soil.
Use your soil again and again, reducing costs and improving the vitality of your soil with
each cycle.
Keep It Simple Organics has been a leader in aerated compost teas for years and now
provide premium soils and nutrients to the cannabis industry.
They offer a full line of all-natural inputs for building your soil, feeding microbe communities,
and brewing nutrient and compost teas.
They can even help you test your soil to spot deficiencies that may be holding you back.
Check out their website at www.kisorganics.com.
Enter the word shango into the format checkout to receive 10% off your first order.
Stop pouring bottled nutrients on your soil only to throw it out each cycle.
Start building living soil that will serve you for years to come.
Visit www.kisorganics.com and grow healthy, thriving cannabis.
Welcome back, you are listening to Shaping Fire, I'm your host, Shango Lose.
Our guest this week is Kevin McKernan, Chief Science Officer at Medicinal Genomics.
So during the first set we were talking a lot about powdery mildew and we were talking
about some of the rumors about how it is spread versus the truth and the science of
it.
And I gotta ask, a lot of us have leaf hoppers, those little bugs in our gardens.
And technically if we got inundated with leaf hoppers, they do suck out of the plant and
they would be bad, but normally there's not enough to cause a problem.
However, a lot of growers are suspicious of leaf hoppers because they think that they
are moving the spores from leaf to leaf and then plant to plant and therefore acting as
an agent for powdery mildew to spread.
Do you buy that?
So I have read that russet mites may do something similar.
So if I had to place an educated guess, I'd say yes, that they could be spreading these
things around and that could be one mechanism for moving more than just powdery mildew.
There could be a host of other diseases.
I wouldn't be surprised if botrytis could move around that way as well.
Yeah, I hear that.
All right.
So then how about the other...
Gosh, I went to say old wives tales, but that doesn't make any sense because I know a lot
of old wives and all they say is brilliant stuff.
So let's say I've got another myth and a lot of people remove it with their fingers, right?
And they're like, oh, I went through the whole plant and I rubbed it with my fingers and
now I don't see any.
And I've always thought that, yeah, you're removing the white, but you've just spread
it around so you can't see it anymore.
So to what advantage does rubbing it off with your fingers help at all?
Yeah, I'll give you an anecdote about this.
I don't think that would completely purify it from the plant just because these mycelium
networks get built and spread pretty quickly and you can't see them.
So I imagine that would stay around and that's actually...
You have to almost imagine that network is like being an Aspen stand where all the roots
are connected and they can sprout genetically similar things out of the root zone.
That's kind of what these mycelium networks are is they're creating this fabric from which
it can grow spores at a later stress event.
So that might remove a lot of the spores and it's probably a good practice just to lower
the spore count inside the garden.
Definitely clean your hands and don't touch any other plants after you do that.
But I wouldn't be surprised if they could pop back out at a later stressor event when
you do that.
I would probably be more inclined that maybe the sulfur treatments or these other milk
based treatments, which I'm assuming what the milk's doing is putting lactobacillus
in play.
Correct.
That probably does a better job eating away that network and destroying it.
So those are probably, I bet, more hardy mechanisms.
So one story, to give some folks a sense of the sensitivity here, there was one group
here that was done...
There's a company called Curated Leaf that runs our chemistry here in Massachusetts and
they went to one grow, they tested 30 mothers.
One of the mothers was positive for powdery mildew.
They then went and tested, what was it, 25 of the descendants, the clones off that mother
and two of those popped positive.
So now they've pulled the mother and the two clones and then quarantined those.
But that gives you a sense of the sampling challenges we might find with this.
That if it's at a very low spore count or a very low frequency in the plant, it may
not be all over the entire plant.
It might just be in one side of the plant that happened to get a little bit damper based
on the corner it was facing or something.
It managed to start colonizing the plant there.
And when they cut clones from that, a couple of the clones ended up with the disease.
So it does travel just in the cloning process alone.
And that's one thing that I think people have to just keep an eye on.
Right on.
And similarly, and in reverse, when you mentioned that there's a mother room and one of the
25 plants tested positive for powdery mildew, I would think that chances are there's powdery
mildew on all of the rest of the mothers as well.
But the spore counts are so low that they just didn't come up on the tests.
Yeah, it could have been that or there could be more resistance as well.
I mean, some of the resistance literature in arapidopsis, which is a model organism
and that we're looking at in hops, there's six different genetic loci that have been
identified in hops that are pointing towards their resistance mechanisms.
And some of the resistances that we think that the stoma or stomata are smaller in some
of the ones that are resistant, so it's harder for them to get that historia or that taproot
into the plant.
And other ones are just about enzymes that the plant happens to make that might fight
off this infection.
So there's a host of different ways in which the plant, this is a hops plant, of course,
but if you draw some of those parallels to cannabis, you have to imagine there may be
more than one genetic resistance loci in the plant.
And so some might actually get infected but never actually express the spores.
We don't know this yet.
Yeah, they may just have it on the leaves, but it's not actually affecting them because
they either have some magic chemical on the leaves or small stomata.
Yeah, right.
So what we're trying to do with the test is make sure that we don't crack open too many
spores.
We want the spores to remain hardy and probably be missed by the test.
We really want the test to be picking up the mycelium network, which we know is a sign
of successful infection.
Yeah, right.
And so that's kind of what we've been aiming for.
So changing gears a little bit, we all want to avoid powdery mildew because it stresses
out the plant, which eventually decreases yield and might take down the plant itself.
And no one likes to harvest a plant and have it go poof with powdery mildew on the flowers
afterwards because that experience is gross.
But what actually happens to a human if we smoke flour that has been dried and then it's
got powdery mildew in it and we combust it?
So the only things that we've seen tied to powdery mildew in human health is maybe an
allergenic response.
They're not listed as human pathogens.
I mean, this is the reason why we don't have them on our other tests or ones that are looking
for human pathogens like E. coli, Salmonella and Aspergillus.
Aspergillus, there have been cases of people inhaling those spores and they can get aspergillosis.
And this is one patient in Toronto had this happen to them maybe last year.
It was published.
The patient survived, but they got a pneumothorax and it was a really hairy scenario.
Usually aspergillosis in immunocompromised patients has like a 50% mortality rate.
So it can be very serious if you get those types of spores in your lungs.
But it's important to know those aren't powdery mildew spores.
And powdery mildew spores are probably, our bodies are probably quite used to them because
they're on a lot of other vegetables.
Not that we're smoking those things, but we're certainly ingesting lots of other fruits and
vegetables and the powdery mildew seem to be quite common amongst many of them.
So I've not found any literature, and I encourage anyone to forward stuff if they can find it,
that suggested that this is actually a human health concern.
It's more just, I think, the cosmetics and perhaps it might change the flavor and the
terpene profiles and of course affect the yield.
But there isn't, I think, any evidence to be alarmed of powdery mildew.
Wow, that's really surprising.
The lore is that you always want to avoid PM when producing for patients.
And the idea that it is just simply because of having some sort of allergic reaction just
sounds a lot less serious than mold spores getting into the lungs, which is how most
people normally talk about it.
Like, you know, taking up residence there.
Yeah, and that can be very serious for aspergillus.
And I agree in those cases.
And maybe some people don't have the eye to tell the difference between the two of them.
I certainly don't.
But we can tell the difference very, very evidently with DNA.
They're very different.
So does most post-harvest processing remove it, like ethanol or, you know, using hydrocarbon
extraction?
Will this just kill the mold spores but leave the remaining spore material there but inactive?
I would imagine most extraction systems would obliterate it.
And I've not—there's a few folks in the field trying to look at that question, whether
the extraction systems actually destroy the spores or whether they make it through.
But if I had to place money on it, I bet ethanol extractions would melt most of these things
away.
Mm-hmm.
So, you know, a lot of people have been talking about that great Jorge Cervantes video that's
been going around showing him giving his flowers with PM a hydrogen peroxide bath that's
8 ounces of H2O to a 5-gallon bucket of water.
And then he takes the flowers and then washes them, kind of submerges them and jostles them
around a little bit and then hangs them to dry.
And of course, since we all try to avoid mold generally and water on our plants, it
totally looks crazy to do that.
Yeah.
And you really have to make sure that you dry them well so that it doesn't happen.
But so what are your thoughts of that?
Is that a pretty effective way to remove PM from your flowers if you've got an especially
high ratio?
Yeah, and I think we saw a lot of the growers here resorting to that.
When they just opened up and had a big problem with this, they were starting to resort to
some of this hydrogen peroxide treatment.
I think they did notice a hit in the terpenes, however, which is probably not that surprising
with hydrogen peroxide.
So some of the terpene profile may change with that treatment.
But I don't know what happens with yield either.
Do you end up—I would imagine with the PM infection, you're not getting perhaps the—you're
not getting the best growth.
The plant's busy trying to fight an infection as opposed to making incredible colas.
So there may be just a yield issue as well.
So since you mentioned it, and I know this is purely speculative because I don't think
there's been any studies on this, but you suggested that H2O2 would likely decrease
the terpenes.
Now regardless of the terpene test being higher or lower, what scientifically do you think
about hydrogen peroxide would threaten terpene?
I think it's just oxidative.
I imagine some of the terpenes would get oxidized with hydrogen peroxide treatment, which may
change libanene and terpenylene or a few of the ones that are—that may be more susceptible
to that.
Good.
I'm glad I asked.
That's really interesting.
I'm going to have to look into that more myself.
All right.
So then the last question before we move on to botrytis is prevention, right?
Like, you know, the best cure is to not get it in the first place.
And we know that there's probably some amount of PM on just about every plant.
And the question is, do you create an opportunity for the powdery mildew to take over and increase
the spore counts on any particular plant?
So what can we do as a preventative so that we keep those spore counts negligible?
Well, this is a bit of a self-fulfilling plug here, but what we've been pitching is to
screen for this stuff genetically and use it as a mechanism to perhaps accelerate your
breeding toward resistant lines.
If you can screen all your plants that—the ones that are starting to build up in PM,
and now you're not going to—this is before you can actually see the spores.
Once you can see the powder on it, it's too late.
The spores are there and they're going to spread.
And so by that time, you're in emergency mode trying to chop stuff down and treat things.
But prior to that, while these things are potentially incubating and building these
networks, you could be screening for the plants that are susceptible to it and remove those.
And then by default, the ones that are left over are more likely to have resistant genetics
and keep breeding those.
So we view it as an opportunity to do some selective breeding based on plant pathogens
that are present that you can find via the DNA.
Right on.
So that's how you can get rid of it long-term through selective breeding.
And it sounds like our best solution in the short term if you're dealing with an acute
situation is going to labs, keeping a hostile environment to those spores.
Use your labs in advance, both in the soil and foliar.
But I don't actually have a good answer for how it may blow your spore tests, though.
That's something that we're going to have to change in the regulations so that we can
continue to use labs for probiotic growing.
Yeah, exactly.
That is the challenge.
If you go to a lab that's using Petri films, powdery mildew doesn't grow in Petri films.
And so they're going to be blind to it.
However, trichoderma, which you might want to consider using to get rid of it,
will grow on those films.
And so it's a bit of a double-edged sword there.
The right thing to do is probably probiotics, but you're probably going to get penalized
if the lab is using a culture-based system to track this.
Right on.
Definitely something we're going to have to all be active around with both lab technique
and also how the regulations are put in place so we're not dinging the wrong people for
spores that are actually healthy.
I mean, I—
Yeah, I think California got this right.
I think their most recent regs I've seen is very species-specific on the human pathogen front.
So they've got a choline salmonella, and we have a test for that that's multiplexed in
two different wavelengths.
And then there's four different aspergillus species, and we have tests for all four of
those as well.
But there isn't anything in there like a total aerobic count or total yeast and mold.
And thank God, because those very broad tests, they're reading tea leaves.
They're really not telling you what's beneficial versus what's harmful.
That's what we used to have in Washington until just last month.
We changed to more along the lines of what California is doing.
So let's move on to botrytis.
Usually this time of year, people will first swear about powdery mildew, and then it'll
follow—the next person in line will swear about botrytis.
And it's such a drag to watch a gorgeous cola growing at the top of a plant only to have
it crumble in your hands because it's rotted from the inside without you knowing it.
It just makes you cry.
So what is botrytis?
So it's another mold.
In fact, this one was sequenced by the Whitehead Institute many years ago.
So there's already a genome sequenced for this, and it seems to cross to different plants.
So it's botrytis cinerea, which is mostly found on cannabis.
And that's at least a test that we've been building for, is toward that genome.
And we do find it.
A lot of people have handed us botrytis samples.
The tests are positive for it.
It is also something that can get to the seeds, which is something where we don't believe
can happen with powdery mildew.
So the literature, at least in hops, is that P. macularis is unlikely to get into the seeds.
Botrytis, however, seems like it can get into the seeds, and it can also survive the winter.
And so it's perhaps a little bit of a tougher one to get rid of in that regard.
So from a testing standpoint, we are still doing leaf punches to try and pick this up.
And we may have to change that, because it doesn't always seem to show itself up in the
leaves like powdery mildew does.
But it is believed to be systemic.
This is one where there's really good literature around botrytis cinerea getting into the vasculature
of the plant.
And this is why you can see it in the center of the buds, too.
So when it's infected, it's inside out in terms of its display.
So yeah, it's a little bit of a different beast, and sometimes probably harder to deal
with in many ways.
So for somebody who is new to it, I mean, just about anybody who's grown a crop or two
has seen botrytis and can identify it, because it's a big old bear in the grow.
It's kind of hard to miss once you know what it is.
But for somebody who's relatively new to working with the plants, how do you identify botrytis
visually without going into a lab?
Well, there's, you know, Jorge has great pictures of this in his Cannabis Encyclopedia of what
botrytis can look like.
And there's even, you can even sometimes see it on stems as like little gray spots in the
stems.
I've even gotten the DNA test to pick it up positive on some leaves that didn't look like
they were infected with any fungus.
So we're still learning about, I think, about how early this infects things.
I think that what I've read is it also has a DPI of like 18 to 30 days.
It's a days post infection, meaning that it can stay unnoticed to the human eye for that
period of time before it begins to show phenotypes that we can detect with maybe a magnifying
loop or something.
So it's, I've had some plants test positive where I would have never thought it had, it
had discovered leaves that were a little necrotic here and there.
And lo and behold, there's botrytis in there starting to get foot.
And I bet when some of those plants mature, they're going to, it's going to come out in
full force.
So I think this one might be a little bit harder for people to eyeball because I do
think it has a variety of different ways in which it can show itself.
Right on.
Let's go ahead and take our second short break.
And when we come back, we will continue talking about botrytis.
You're listening to Shaping Fire, and my guest today is Kevin McKernan, Chief Science
Officer at Medicinal Genomics.
We humans are attracted to plants because they offer us relief and are a whole lot of
fun.
Sometimes though, the best parts are buried inside the plant and we need to use specialty
extraction technology.
When it comes to cannabis, it is extraordinarily important to extract its precious oils without
changing them in the process.
We want to preserve the properties of the cannabinoids, terpenes, and other constituents
that all work together.
Since 1994, Eden Labs has been developing extraction technology and processes to do
just that.
Eden Labs was founded by a cannabis-loving engineer during the early days of medical
marijuana in California, and the expanded Eden team has been designing and building
industry-leading solutions for cannabis extraction ever since.
Eden Labs' flagship product is the newly improved High Flow CO2 extractor.
As other extraction companies enter the market, it is the high flow from Eden Labs that everyone
chases and tries to compare themselves with.
Not only that, but the improved automation software allows data to be collected, stored,
and studied.
Eden Labs can outfit your whole lab.
Eden's Cold Finger ethanol extractor creates astonishing whole plant extracts working
alone or in tandem with an initial stream distilling step to isolate monoterpenes before
extracting the rest of the botanical constituents.
Eden offers you many options, including vacuum distillation, column distilling, stirred
reactor units, and accelerated solvent recovery.
When you partner with Eden Labs, your lab team is enrolled into the Eden Labs training
program to boost their understanding of Eden's best practices to ensure that your outputs
are exactly what you require for your application, whether it be dab oil, oil for pen cartridges,
or edibles.
When you work with Eden, you're not just buying the tech, you're buying dedicated
customer support to help you attain your business goals, too.
You can hear Eden's CEO, A.C.
Braddock, talk about the company's values during Shaping Fire episode 19 that was all
about CO2 extraction.
So many of the new companies in the market just smell opportunity, slap an extractor
together, and hire a marketing company.
Eden Labs has been listening to feedback from extractors and consumers for about 25
years now.
They care about both you and your consumer.
Partner with Eden Labs to extract astonishing cannabis oils and terpenes that you'll be
proud of.
Go to shapingfire.com forward slash eden to find out more.
If you grow cannabis with sunshine, you can often feel limited by the seasonal cycle.
You want to grow sustainably and save money, so you use as little electricity as possible.
But if you haven't studied or implemented light deprivation techniques into your greenhouse,
you're leaving a lot of money on the table.
By incorporating light deprivation solutions into your greenhouse, you can often add two
or three additional growing cycles to your year.
When you pencil out the financial benefit of those additional cycles, you'll realize
why commercial-scale light deprivation technology is remaking the cannabis industry.
What used to be done by pulling tarps over hoop houses has been scaled up over the last
few years in such a way that it's become mechanized, easy, and affordable to even
small-scale commercial cannabis operations.
Forever Flowering Greenhouses is the industry leader in light deprivation, greenhouse design
and operation for the commercial cannabis industry.
Their team of greenhouse experts have been in the fields of Northern California for decades,
and they're now building greenhouses for commercial cannabis companies across the country.
If you are new to light dep and growing in greenhouses, I encourage you to go back to
Shaping Fire episode 13 with guest Eric Branstad of Forever Flowering.
I talk with Eric about the importance of intelligent greenhouse management as well
as the huge financial benefit of incorporating light dep techniques.
There are so many aspects of utilizing a greenhouse that can go wrong.
From temperature and airflow to light dep and workflow, Forever Flowering will help
you produce crop after crop of well-cared-for flowers.
They can help you retrofit your existing greenhouse with light dep and other modern systems at
a level that fits your budget.
If you're just starting out, Forever Flowering can help you plan and build your new greenhouse
so that you get started on the right foot.
The cannabis business has enough risks without trying to go it alone with your greenhouse.
Contact Forever Flowering Greenhouses to partner with folks who have an indisputable
reputation as knowledgeable and easy to work with.
Go to shapingfire.com forward slash ffg to find out more.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose, and our guest this week is Kevin McKernan,
Chief Science Officer at Medicinal Genomics.
Let's talk more about botrytis.
When people first see botrytis, when people are in their personal gardens, a lot of folks
will just pinch off that small amount of botrytis that they see with the idea of,
oh, I really don't want to destroy the whole cola or this whole plant, so I'm just going to
pinch this little bit off and I'm going to take it away from the garden and just hope for the best.
And in personal gardens, sometimes you can get away with this, but my question for you is,
are we just fooling ourselves?
I mean, if it's already a little bit on the plant, is it already everywhere and this plant is doomed?
How bad is it?
So that's a perfect question.
There was someone that this happened to this summer on, and there was parts of their plant
that looked like they could salvage and other ones that they broke off and threw it into the trash.
And so we went and DNA tested the stuff that was clearly just covered in mold and also the stuff
that they thought was clean.
And we found botrytis DNA in all of it.
So they opted to take the clean stuff and then go extract it and see if they could turn it into
something other than a smokable product.
But I really don't know if they had continued to grow that plant for another week or two,
whether they would have just shown up in the other flowers or not and really sprouted there.
That didn't happen.
Once they saw it break out like this, they kind of killed the thing and started tearing
apart the parts that they thought they could salvage.
But we did see DNA in all of it.
So yeah, I really don't have any advice on the biocontrol of this other than what you can
probably find in a lot of the other recommended books about using trichoderma and other types of
yeast to try and take it down.
One of the things that makes me way more suspicious of botrytis than powdery mildew
is because it is systemic, right?
I mean, if you see a little bit of botrytis on a flower and you pinch it off,
you are mechanically removing the spores from the flower.
But at that point, it's already in...
Everywhere.
Yeah, it's already inside of the plant.
So really, you're just doing an aesthetic thing at that point.
Yeah.
Well, you know, there is an interesting paper I'll point people to in tomatoes where they
deploy hexanoic acid onto the root ball of tomatoes and it primes the plant to defend
itself against botrytis.
And hexanoic acid is a very interesting compound.
It's actually the first compound in cannabinoid synthesis.
The hexanoic acid pathway is what is spread, arguably a precursor to these things.
Obviously, tomatoes don't make that, but hexanoic acid, I think, in other plants is a signaling
molecule of the immune system.
But it's an interesting paper because they actually carbon label the hexanoic acid.
They show it's not actually getting past the root zone.
It's doing some type of cellular communication with the plant to prime the immune system to
fight off botrytis.
Oh, man, that sounds so interesting.
I will not only get that paper from you.
Folks will be able to look on the podcast page for this episode and get most of the
papers that you're referring to, including a link to that great Rob Clark book about
Oh, yeah, indeed.
diseases.
Yeah.
All right.
So let's go the opposite side, right?
We're talking about a – we were just talking about pinching it off in your own home grow.
Let's talk about an indoor commercial grow.
Now, if you find a plant that is expressing botrytis and we know it's systemic, it would
sound like you would want to bag that plant, cut it and get it the hell out of your indoor
environment, right?
Yeah.
That would be my tendency because once these spores start to go, they move and they're
very resistant.
So we talked about how powdery mildew, other than some potential allergies, it's not
really all that bad for humans, even though we all try to avoid it because it's just
kind of generally gross and poor aesthetics.
How does it go for botrytis?
Certainly, it tastes bad and it causes you to cough.
But how does botrytis affect the human?
The same thing I've read.
It's just allergenic.
I've not seen botrytis as being a health hazard and if anyone has any papers to show
us otherwise, we were all ears, but we have been searching for any evidence of that and
have opted to not have it be in the human pathogen panel as a result of that.
The allergy part of it is certainly plenty for me.
I know that when I come across some botrytis in a flower when I'm trimming, let's say,
and I didn't know it was coming, right?
I didn't see it and I pick it up and it hits something and it's under the light and all
of a sudden it goes poof, right?
And the spores are everywhere and of course I'm inhaling it and it's like, oh man, time
to take a step outside and get some fresh air because that stuff's really gross.
I think that even though it may not be bad for humans, it's certainly unpleasant to my
human.
Yeah, indeed.
These things are fairly ubiquitous as well in the atmosphere and so I think it really
comes down to are they immunocompromised or not?
And in those cases, maybe the allergenic reaction is probably more severe of a concern than
what a healthy individual might have from just environmental exposure to spores.
So now for a light infection of botrytis, an advanced botrytis infection on a flower,
I mean, the poor flower just melts and there's nothing left in it.
But some plants, they'll get just a little bit of botrytis and folks will set those aside
to be processed either into a topical or maybe they'll microfilter it and turn it into a
tincture or something, though that would be arguably sketchy as well.
But my point is that when you process it with ethanol or with hydrocarbons, does it
kill the spore but leave the spore plant material just like it does with powdery mildew?
So I don't know the answer to that.
It's a good question as to whether or not, which extraction techniques do what to the
spores.
I would assume the spores are the things that are probably the hardiest and that they may
survive some of the extraction techniques that are out there.
But I don't know.
I have not seen any studies done on that.
Right on.
You know, one of the things that really is a drag about botrytis, especially up here
in the northwest, is that down in Oregon where they have a very popular and financially
successful riesling harvest, they actually spray it outdoors on dessert wine grapes.
They actually call it noble rot because it makes dessert wines taste better.
Then the wind blows it up here in the northwest.
It's like as if we don't have enough trouble with mold just because it's so wet up here.
They're spraying it, botrytis, down in Oregon and it blows up here and suddenly we've got
their noble rot, which we've got a lot of swear words for.
Yes, it's true.
I guess in the wine industry, this actually helps the flavor.
So it's used quite often for that.
I should say I have heard of some folks who have been working in indoor grows where they've
been chronically exposed to high spore counts and feel as if they've gotten some type of
allergy or lung infection.
So I don't want to proclaim that this stuff is all rosy for people, but there can be cases,
I imagine, where if you're stuffed in a room that doesn't have the right ventilation and
you're constantly working around a high spore count, that's probably going to aggravate
the scenario.
Yeah, I can imagine it would.
So similarly to PM, and I know that you're not big on the prevention side.
I mean, you believe in the prevention side, but it's not really the focus of your research.
Would you say that an approach of spraying labs foliarly would help against botrytis
in the same ways that powdery mildew?
I'm sorry, I didn't catch your question.
And foliar sprays, whether they would help?
Yeah, yeah.
So I think that's where a lot of this is going to go, is that once we have the genome sequence
of all of the pests that infect cannabis, well, then it's just a question of finding
the genomic Achilles heel and hitting these things with RNAi or hitting these things with
other enzymes that might actually target the weakness that you can see in the genome.
And these foliar sprays ideally would be for molecules that are ephemeral, that are like
enzymes biodegrade over time and RNA molecules degrade over time.
So these types of approaches, I think, are showing a lot of promise in other plants.
And if they can work in a rapidopsis, if you can find an economic model for them to work
in $2 a pound tomatoes, you can find an economic model for it to work in cannabis.
Right on.
I think that is a great approach.
And while I'm at it, I want to plug the Facebook group, the Probiotic Farmers Alliance.
It's a huge—
I love that one.
Yeah, me too.
They got like 20,000 members.
And if you want to learn how to make labs and lactobacilli and others that will help
protect your plants, you can Google it anywhere.
But that group, it's moderated really well.
And there's a lot of pros on that list.
So Probiotic Farmers Alliance, shout out there.
So Kevin, I know I'm catching you off guard with this last question, but you have got a
lot of depth in both powdery mildew and botrytis.
And I, as an interviewer, I can only really ask you questions on things that I've come
across and know.
What's in your head about either or both of those that I haven't asked you?
And in your head, you're like, oh man, this would be a good thing to throw into the mix
as well.
But maybe Shango doesn't know to ask you about it.
What am I not asking you and I should about this?
Well, I would say that, so we've sequenced a genome of one powdery mildew that infects
cannabis.
And I'm somewhat suspicious there may be a second genome out there.
Only because that's what we've seen with wheat and rye.
There is two different or three different strains of blumeria that are powdery mildews
that infect those grasses.
And the plants have evolved different resistance to each one of them.
So we're somewhat eager to see if there's another powdery mildew out there that infects
cannabis.
Cannabis having such a global spread, it would surprise me if there were just one.
Right now, we've tested a lot of material from California and from the East Coast and
a little bit in Canada.
But we haven't really gotten to any international markets with the test yet to know whether
the powdery mildew in Europe, for instance, or in Afghanistan is the same species of what
we're dealing with here.
And then the other thing is there is a tremendous amount of confusion in the literature over
the taxonomic class of these things.
In fact, there's a great book from Roger T.A. Cook, I would point people to, on the
taxonomic manual of powdery mildews.
And it's a huge book.
And what will frustrate you about this book is if you look at all of these species that
they're categorizing in here, they all look the same by eye, which can be a little bit
overwhelming when you realize there's this many powdery mildews out there and they all
look the same.
What am I actually dealing with?
So going forward, we're looking to expand the testing venue from just botrytis and powdery
mildew onto anything that affects cannabis.
So if folks have ideas and tests that we should target, we have a long list of things we're
going down and making assays for from fusarium to pythium to downy mildews, you name it.
Everything in these books that we're reading about, we're trying to make assays for.
But we always want to hear from growers as to what they're actually running into.
What are the problems that are really causing them economic harm so that we can make assays
that detect them very early?
Because we think early detection is the key to finding both resistance genetics and also
to just preventing growth from getting knocked out.
The idea that there may be a novel PM that's specific for cannabis is really an interesting
idea.
It's probably really like the other ones, but it's just got a small difference that
is unique.
At what point would nature have developed this novel version of PM?
Would it go all the way back to the land races?
Or is this something that probably happened once we all started hybridizing them?
I'll link you guys another paper to the Blumeria paper.
And they hypothesize that this is happening during domestication of the plants, that when
you domesticate them, you tend to take the plants out of a surrounding where they have
other species where there might be more hopping going on into more of a monoculture environment.
And when that happens, these obligate biotrophs tend to speciate.
At least that's their thinking.
It could be that this dates back to when mankind decided to take cannabis under its wing and
along with it, its pathogens decided to evolve according to new agricultural practices.
Yeah, that makes a lot of sense.
And yet more evidence against monocropping, monoculturing, and in favor of permaculturing
and companion plants, right?
Yeah, right.
Indeed, indeed.
Right on.
Well, thanks so much for being on the show, Kevin.
I know your time is valuable, and I'm glad that you were willing to spend an hour with us.
Excellent.
Thank you.
If you'd like to know more about Kevin McKernan, you can check out the Medicinal Genomics website
at www.medicinalgenomics.com.
You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the show at
shapingfire.com and on Apple iTunes, Stitcher, and Google Play.
If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it if you'd leave a positive review of the
podcast wherever you download.
Your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too.
On the Shaping Fire website, you can also subscribe to the weekly newsletter for insights
into the latest cannabis news and product reviews.
On the Shaping Fire website, you will also find transcripts of today's podcast as well.
For information on me and where I will be speaking, you can check out shangolose.com.
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire.
I've been your host, Shango Lose.
