Cannabis extraction has blown up and it will continue to blow up and become bigger and
bigger for the foreseeable future.
The array of products in the market and the number of extraction labs and the varieties
of final products possible coming out of these labs have all increased at a wicked fast rate.
Extraction is exploding in every direction and nug runs are standard now, not a rarity
like it was just 5 years ago.
It's a really good time to be a professional extractor or an extracts connoisseur.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, business, and technique efficiently and with
good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
We'll send you new podcast episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox, along
with commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week and videos too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published.
Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode.
Also we're giving away very cool prizes to folks who are signed up to receive the
newsletter.
There's nothing else you need to do to win except receive the newsletter.
This month we're giving away several packages of the Happy Endings Compost Tea Mix and Ocean
Bounty Flowering Soil Amendment from Green Bicycles.
I use this stuff in my own garden and I love it.
In fact I talked with Green Bicycles founder Patrick Smith about his tea on the YouTube
channel recently.
So you can go to shapingfire.com to sign up for the newsletter and be entered into this
month's and all future newsletter prize drawings.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I'm your host, Shango Lose.
Today my guest is Jeff Wilhoyt.
You may know Jeff Wilhoyt as Cannabis Reverend on Instagram or as Jeff Church, another name
he used during the early days of cannabis.
But now that he's working solely in the legal cannabis industry, he's allowing me
for the first time to use his real name.
Jeff has been in professional cannabis for decades, working as a cannabis patient rights
advocate and providing cannabis medicine for patients.
Throughout this time he was refining his skills and mastering all of the modern extraction
techniques and many of the ancient ones too.
He's been running licensed professional cannabis extraction labs for several years
now.
He is presently still an ardent patient advocate, but he's also director of extracts at Puffin
Farm.
Today we're going to start by explaining CO2 extraction and then move on to the recent
improvements in CO2 extraction and modifying CO2 machines.
Welcome to the show, Jeff.
Glad to be here.
Thank you.
Right on.
So I'm excited to have you back on the show so that we can kind of update our prior conversation
talking about CO2 extractions because the last time we had you on the show was a couple
years and a lot has changed in CO2 in that time.
And I'm lucky that when I did my stint as CEO of Green Lion Farms, I got to be in the
CO2 lab and was able to learn a lot.
But most people have never been in a CO2 lab, let alone any extraction lab.
Would you walk us through generally how a CO2 extractor functions and most importantly
the differences between supercritical and subcritical extraction?
Yeah, definitely.
Definitely.
So it's, you know, like any other solvent extraction, you have a solvent that is fed
in through an extraction vessel where you have plant material packed in there.
And then there's a secondary vessel that is downstream from there where the solvent and
the extracted cannabinoids, terpenes and other constituents are separated from the solvent.
And so, you know, with CO2, it's done either in a subcritical liquid or supercritical phase.
And so kind of the difference between that is relative to temperature and pressure, the
state that the solvent itself is in.
So at regular atmosphere, we have CO2 as a gas.
If you chill that down and pressurize it, so put it into a vessel where it's able to
hold the pressure, it will turn from a gas into a liquid.
And then that liquid can then be further heated and pressurized even further to take it through
the subcritical phase and at higher pressures and temperatures up into the supercritical phase.
So they're all just kind of different ways that the solvent acts.
When it's a liquid, it acts just like a liquid, it'll saturate a medium, it'll extract.
When it's subcritical, it goes a little bit deeper.
And basically, the different constituents are going to be soluble at different levels.
So if you have a higher pressure, certain things will be more extractable there than
they are at a lower pressure.
Turpines in particular are extractable at low pressures with CO2.
So relatively low.
You can definitely do a terpene extraction at 1100 psi.
If you want cannabinoids, you're going to have to go to a higher pressure or take longer
to do the extraction because they're less extractable at the lower pressure.
So that's kind of the main difference between every other solvent that's used and CO2 is
this pressure component to it.
With butane and alcohol, heat is a consideration.
When you run either of those solvents hot, you're going to produce an extract that has
more constituents in it.
There's going to be more chlorophyll with a hot extraction.
So basically, CO2 extraction is very simple.
Liquid fed through the plant material, the cannabinoids and terpenes and other constituents
are extracted.
Then that higher pressure liquid goes through a valve that regulates the flow, but it also
sets the pressure in the extraction vessel at a higher point than in the separation vessel.
What that does is it takes that liquid or supercritical or subcritical fluid and it
changes it into a gas state.
So you'll also have heat on the separators that are aiding in this as well.
But what happens there is you've got all of your extract is in the fluid.
Then once that fluid is turned into a gas, the extract is left behind and the gas is
able to rise and be funneled off through the piping into another part of the extraction
machine.
Having that flexibility between supercritical and subcritical, it's almost like you get
two tools for the price of one because you've got some flexibility on how you run your material.
Well, I mean, it's really a rainbow tool set, not just two tools.
Subcritical at low pressure is going to extract one set of constituents.
The higher the pressure gets and the higher the temperature gets, the more constituents
that you're going to extract until you hit supercritical.
Then it just keeps on further opening up what the constituents are that it's going to easily
extract the higher the pressure is.
It can be selective.
You can remove, you can target certain constituents and leave other ones behind with pressure.
There's some really interesting things that are done on some extractors where they have
a separation.
You've got your higher pressure extraction.
Then you have three cascading lower pressure separators where your cannabinoids and thicker,
waxier constituents are going to fall out in the first separator because it's at a higher
pressure.
Then as the pressure goes down, terpenes become insoluble in that liquid CO2 and so they drop
out and so on.
You're able to fraction things out that way with different pressures.
Right on.
Cool.
For anybody who's listening who's like, oh my God, this is going to be a really technical
show, don't worry.
It's not going to be like this the whole time because actually what we're mostly going to
be talking about today are applications for CO2 and how CO2 extractions are being used
now.
We needed to make sure we get through the supercritical versus subcritical, but stay
with us here.
Let's talk about that, our first application, Jeff.
The oil that is coming out of CO2 labs for dabbing or vaping now is incredibly tasty
and it's way better than the stuff that was coming out of labs in 2014, 2015 where unfortunately
a lot of CO2 got a bad reputation for not being tasty.
What has changed during that time between 2014, 2015 and now that's made such a profound
impact on the tastiness of CO2 products?
A lot has really changed in the marketplace.
I would say for my practices in the lab, I've really come full circle.
Jumping into CO2, I was originally producing products that were very akin to the oil that
I'm producing now back then.
That was really on quality of material.
I was running full nug back in 2013 at the first runs that we were doing.
We had some really amazing oils that came out that didn't need any winterization.
The quality of the material was just spectacular.
The reality is back then that quality material was not going to produce enough oil to make
it profitable.
Everybody turned to the other direction and said, this trim makes really good fiscal sense.
I'd say that the majority of processors went that way.
There's a couple processors that I know of that always have tried to strive for having
that highest quality input material to make the highest quality extract.
It really wasn't the case.
95% plus of the market has really just been this oil that's like, blah.
It doesn't really excite you too much.
You smoke it, you'll get your high, but it's not a very unique high.
It's very similar to most other cartridges that are out there.
Really, back in the day, there was so little knowledge about how to retain terpenes in
your extract and do this that you would just do your extraction, you'd get this big puck
of waxy oil, you'd douse it in alcohol, and then you would cook the extract in a rotovape
to remove that alcohol.
When you do that, you're removing the majority of the terpenes.
Most companies would just go all the way down until they had a thicker oil.
That way, they knew that the majority of the alcohol was out of it.
They'd end up with an oil that, for the cartridge technology, was not feasible to smoke.
A lot of companies back then, they would cut it with propylene glycol as a viscosity-altering
agent.
We know that propylene glycol vaporizing it is really unhealthy.
There's been a lot of government studies that have come out about the tobacco vaping industry,
and it's the same thing.
With propylene glycol, people back in the day were putting cannabis in there, which
might even be a little bit better than vaping nicotine because you've got some anti-cancer
potentials in an oil.
Anyways, that's not here nor there.
Now, people are starting to get to the point where they're making a product that, instead
of having to compromise and add in these cuts or leave alcohol in your extract to keep the
viscosity right, there were all kinds of things that were done to make this alcohol-extracted
or winterized oil be something that the market desired, but nobody was really able to make
it unique.
You'd have a little flavor of the strain that you were vaping, but it wasn't like smelling
the flower.
That's really where we've come to today.
We're back to the point where cannabis is worthless.
The wholesale market on cannabis is so cheap.
Now, if you're an extractor, sure, it still costs twice the amount to buy flower as it
does to buy trim, but if the product that you're getting is way, way more than twice
the price preferable by the consumers, then it makes sense to do that.
Now, what we're doing is just using full flower.
In a lot of cases, it's trimmed flower that we're using as well, so something that would
be bag-ready and would have been sold as flower back in 2013 because it was worth so much.
Now, there's so much cannabis on the market that it's not worth as much.
What we're doing now is sourcing this amazing material, and we're able to complete our
extractions without having to winterize.
If we were running trim, we would have tons and tons of wax, lots of lipids in our extracts,
and it wouldn't be something you would want to smoke out of a vape carton.
Smoking lipids is ... They're pretty harsh.
They're not something you really want to take a nice fat dab of.
Right on.
I was thinking, too, the market dynamics that you were describing where you're able to get
these, not only a nug run, but a trimmed nug run compared to what it was like before,
where the value has shifted in the market.
The price has plummeted on flower, which is really bad for the producer-grower on the
farm.
But on the other side, it's a huge boon for the customer who's now getting a much preferable
product at the same price that they were getting carts and dabs for back in 2014.
Also, in your role as the extractor, I just got to assume that it's way more satisfying
to be working with full flower, let alone trimmed flower, than just using the trim.
I mean, it's got to be so much better.
Unfortunately, the farmer's losing, but you and the customer are winning.
Yeah.
I don't know if it's so much that the farmer's losing.
Yeah, sure, they're not getting the same prohibition dollars that people were getting back in
2013.
But it's a commodity, and the market has set the price.
And there's going to be a price for how much is being produced.
So yeah, it's definitely sad.
The farmer is always losing.
In this market, no matter which way you look, the price is going to go down until it hits
that spot where it levels out.
But yeah, it's amazing.
You know, when I crack open a nice big 8,000 gram bag of flowers, and I'm pulling out these
nugs that are six, eight, seven, eight, eight pounds, and I'm just like, oh, my God, I'm
10 inches long, some of them, and shoving them into the extractor.
I mean, it's just an amazing thing.
Yeah, way, way more satisfying.
So I got one more question for you before we go to our first break.
You and I have known each other for a long time now, and I know that you go back working
with patients, and you have helped patients understand what RSO, Rick Simpson Oil, also
known as ethanol hash oil, preferably is, and how to use it and stuff.
So I know it's got a place close to your heart, and I also know that CO2 is close to your
heart as well.
And in this new adult rec market, I'm finding people are selling stuff as CO2 RSO, which
to me sounds like an oxymoron, because the whole point of CO2 is that it's a partial
extraction, and you're not getting the whole plant lipids, for example, like you said you
don't want for a dabble oil, but you do want in an RSO.
Do you believe that there's realistic room in a market for a CO2 RSO, or do you think
that, as I do, it's people trying to get to an RSO product by cutting corners?
Well, if you were going to cut corners, it would not be extracting it with CO2.
RSO is something, Rick Simpson Oil, for lack of a better name, he's the one that popularized
this.
This is a solvent extraction technique.
So doing it with ethanol is probably the most cost-effective way to do it.
And yeah, it's going to have chlorophylls in there where your CO2 extraction is going
to be devoid of chlorophylls.
It's a constituent that is not as extractable with CO2.
So to answer your question, it's a different product, for sure.
So I don't know if CO2 RSO is the best term, but I think that what they're trying to get
at is we've got this oil that we're selling you as a vaporizable product.
But really, we're calling it RSO so that the consumer knows that we've decarbed it and
you can eat it.
And so I think, even though they're completely different as far as the appearance of the
product, you're going to have a much different product from CO2.
But I think that the effect and the desired effect is going to be the same.
You're going to have a decarbed cannabinoid load in a CO2 oil, but it's much more expensive
to produce.
So I don't know.
I'm not sure if that's the best way to produce an RSO.
Yeah, I guess if that's the equipment you have, that's the equipment you use, right?
If your lab is a CO2 lab and you don't have an ethanol lab, well, it looks like you're
making CO2 RSO.
And I got to admit that your kind of repackaging of my perspective on it makes me feel actually
a lot better.
Because when I see it in the stores, I feel like people are trying to cross-market a product
that's clearly not a whole plant ethanol hash oil from CO2.
But I like your interpretation of maybe they're not trying to get away with something.
Maybe they have to use the term RSO to signal to the consumer that this is a decarbed edible
product because we haven't really developed that language yet for marketing.
Well, and here's the, you know, as far as what the liquor control board allows you to
do, you're only allowed to sell 10 milligram size servings if it's for eating, right?
So there's no way you would be able to sell an RSO for eating.
So they've confused it in that sense to where all of these processors are having to produce
an RSO and sell it for vaporization, which is not what anybody should be doing with an
RSO.
Right, right.
You know, so yeah, it's definitely interesting.
But there are lots of RSO carts out there on the market, which really surprises me that,
you know, people put this chlorophyll rich alcohol extract into a cartridge, you know,
but that's a whole other thing, you know, other, you know, I think that the term RSO
is, I don't know, I think we need to get away from that.
You know, my personal thoughts are if it's an ethanol extract, you should call it EHO,
ethanol hash oil, just like BHO is butane hash oil, PHO is propane hash oil, you know,
what it's more scientifically correct than calling it Rick Simpson oil, which really
describes a man who brought this medicine to the public, you know, the ability to make it.
And actually, I would venture to say that nobody in the recreational market is making
RSO the way that Rick Simpson did.
He used naphtha, which is a really kind of nasty solvent, but it's readily available.
And even though it's got some carcinogenic
properties, yeah, yeah.
Having a really heavy cannabinoid load for these patients was the most important thing.
So at that time, you know, even though there was some bad coming in with the medicine,
the good outweighed it and he saved a lot of people.
And so that's really where it came from.
You know, the RSO, it's really just that term because this guy popularized it.
But technically, RSO, Rick Simpson didn't have anything to do with that CO2 oil, that's
the CO2 RSO or any of the other RSO on the market, other than the fact that his name is
what they're using.
Right on, right on.
Yeah, it's amazing how many people talk about RSO for things without actually knowing what
it can, you know, what it's made of in a particular process.
But, you know, I get that's just all part of being in an early market and us figuring
out ourselves what to call it to communicate to the consumers.
And God help the consumer trying to get educated, you know, as this as this education drifts
down slowly but surely to the retail.
So let's go ahead.
Oh, go ahead.
Go ahead.
And then we'll take our break.
One more thing while we're on that, you know, so CO2, when you when you look at what the
consumer perceives CO2 as, it's got a really bad name.
And, you know, most CO2 is pretty bland.
And so at Puffin Farm, what we've done is we've kind of said we're setting a standard
that it has to be of at least this quality for it to be extra virgin flower oil.
And we're not really, you know, we say on the package it's processed with CO2.
So it's full disclosure to everybody that that's what's being done.
But we're trying to set it apart from CO2 by calling it the EVFO, the extra virgin flower
oil, to kind of make this new subset because our CO2 doesn't really fit in with, you know,
what most of the market is still today.
And the difference is?
The difference is the flower.
The difference is the non-winterization.
The difference is it tastes just like the flower.
Like if you took that flower and broke it apart and smelled it, that's the flavor that
you're getting from an EVFO cart.
If you're not getting if it doesn't equal like that and if it's not lipid free enough,
it goes into winterized oil and that gets sold to a processor for making edibles.
Right on, dude.
And that is why when I am shopping in Washington, I buy your Puffin Farm oil.
So there you have it.
So let's get to that commercial now.
You're listening to Shaping Fire.
My guest today is Jeff Wilhoyt, director of extracts at Puffin Farm.
As a business owner, you are incredibly busy.
In reality, you are responsible for everything your company does.
You've got so many responsibilities every single day that often you just don't have
the time to really dig into your marketing as deeply as you'd like.
You know there's more that you could do to reach out to new customers and encourage
loyalty in the customers you do have, but you certainly don't have the time for it
and you're not really ready to hire someone full time for that role either.
For you, I recommend blunt branding.
At blunt branding, Kirsten Nelson and her team are focused on improving your bottom
line.
You know, most marketing firms are excited to make your logo, packaging, and website
very pretty, but they leave responsibility for improving your bottom line up to you.
They don't want that kind of responsibility.
But that's pretty much the most important part of marketing, right?
Kirsten and her team will help you engage new customers, funnel them to your point of
sale, whether it be online or storefront, and keep them coming back to you and telling
their friends.
Now, if you happen to be a new cannabis company or an established company moving from medical
to adult use in your state, Kirsten especially can help you.
Not only is she well versed in marketing and finance, but she totally gets cannabis, whole
plant medicine, terpenes, heritage farmers, and the particular needs of startups.
Check out what she did recently for Moon Time Medicinals in Humboldt County at
moontimemedicinals.com.
Kirsten and her team put together a whole brand package for them, built their website,
and wrote their sales materials.
No doubt, this is a paid commercial spot, but that does not mean that they bought my
opinion.
I've worked with Blunt Branding on four projects now for various clients, and every
single time they have done more than they've promised and over-delivered on results.
I love how they generate new revenue and focus on that as the goal instead of just making
you a pretty logo.
Similarly, every single friend I've referred them to has come back to thank me.
That just doesn't happen every day.
Grab a pen and paper because the website address is coming.
If you want someone to implement marketing programs that feed your bottom line, give
Blunt Branding a call.
They will share proven techniques to increase your audience and generate sales while using
cutting-edge technology solutions in the background that make all of this easy, automatic,
and trackable.
Go to shapingfire.com forward slash blunt branding to find out more.
You can also click on the link in our newsletter.
Blunt Branding.
Marketing that makes you money.
is October 22nd through 24th at the Luskin Conference Center at UCLA.
And while the final speakers list is still coming together, the speakers who are already
announced give you plenty of reasons to get your ticket today.
Prepare yourself to learn from 54 thought leader presentations focused on furthering
the convergence of medical cannabis research, treatment, and product development.
Speakers include the father of cannabis research, Raphael Mishulam.
Michael Dorr, Chief Medical Consultant for the Israeli Ministry of Health will be there
too.
The list of esteemed speakers participating is long and includes Shaping Fire guests,
Cannabis Neuroscientist Dr. Ethan Russo, and Kevin McKiernan of Medicinal Genomics.
You can view all the speakers at canmedevents.com.
This year's CanMed features a special education track on the application of blockchain
technology in the cannabis market, including cannabis banking, seed-to-sale tracking,
sequencing the cannabis genome, ICO financing, and more.
If you are a medical care provider, be sure to arrive a day early to participate in the
pre-conference CME course.
Find out more about that at canmedevents.com.
That's C-A-N-N-M-E-D-E-V-E-N-T-S dot com.
95% of attendees said CanMed 2017 met or exceeded their expectations.
That's a serious vote of confidence that CanMed 2018 will be well worth your time and
resources.
So don't delay.
Visit canmedevents.com today to reserve your seat and find out more.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose.
And our guest this week is Jeff Wilhoite, Director of Extracts at Puffin Farm.
So before the break, we were talking about just kind of some general questions that have
been coming up contemporarily about CO2 and CO2 products.
But Jeff, I want to talk more in this second set about best practices and some of the things
that can happen in the lab to make a better product.
So in this section, I will be up front that I get over my head fast in a lab.
And I'm not going to front and pretend to know extraction at your level.
So I want to lean on your depth a little bit and have you guide where to go next.
So let's talk a little bit about best practices in your lab.
So what I would like you to share with us is some of the simple things that you have
realized in your lab between the early days of 2014 and now that is causing you
to develop this product that's winning awards and is clearly popular in the market.
And when we talked about this setting up the show, some of the stuff that you had to say
was actually really quite simple.
So let's start.
What would you say is one best practice in your CO2 lab that is leading to these championship
oils that you're putting on the market?
Well, so there's one thing and I've already talked about it quite a bit is quality material.
You know, it's that quality in, quality out.
You know, we call it extra virgin flower oil because it's flower oil, not trim oil.
And, you know, having that high quality material leads to an extract that you're not going
to have to winterize.
And, you know, if you winterize, you're losing terpenes.
It's just that plain and simple.
Your most volatile terpenes, which are the ones that you'll smell when you break open
a bud, those are going to go out with your alcohol when you do that.
And it's a little bit more of a full plant extract if you leave a little bit of that
in there.
If you're not removing anything with a secondary solvent, you know, that's selective and basically
won't extract certain constituents, then you're really having that full plant extract.
You know, I'd say another really, really key thing is we don't deconstruct things.
You know, it's all one extraction.
If you deconstruct things, if you take the terpenes and separate them off and then you
take the cannabinoids and separate them off, you've got these two different fractions and
then you winterize the cannabinoid fraction to remove lipids and then get that as clean
as you can and then you add back the terpene fraction.
Things don't always match up very close to what the flower was that it came from.
Because I would think that as you're separating out the parts, you're separating an analog
source into kind of digital parts and there's a little bit lost at each part.
So when you put it back together, you're losing quite a sum.
There's definitely lost parts.
There's changed parts.
So if you have to heat something up to the point where, you know, or pull it into deep
enough vacuum to the point where it's going to distill out like the terpenes.
If you remove those terpenes first, there's something that's been changed because they
were removed.
If you extract it all with a single solvent, all of it has been treated the same way.
So you're going to have a product that is very close to what the plant was rather than
removed and then, you know, deconstructed and then reconstructed.
Right on.
So would you throw in a quick description of what winterizing is?
Because while you and I use it as common parlance, a lot of folks in the industry don't.
Yeah.
So winterizing is simply the act of removing the lipid content.
And so what you do is you take your oil and you put that into alcohol.
You dissolve the oil into alcohol.
Lipids are not...
Most lipids are not very soluble in alcohol.
And so they'll stay kind of...
They'll not dissolve into a suspension.
Right.
So you're able to filter them out.
Now, if you freeze that alcohol and oil mixture or winterize it, even more lipids will solidify.
And the terpenes and cannabinoids stay in the liquid solution of alcohol.
So winterization, you put your oil in the alcohol, you put that alcohol and oil into
the freezer, you freeze it, then you filter it, usually with some sort of vacuum filtration,
basically pouring it into a filter and having a vacuum draw on the bottom of that filter so that
the alcohol soluble constituents come through and you're left with a puck of lipids on the filter.
So that's winterizing.
Right on.
And then you've got all of this oil that's diluted in alcohol.
And you've got to remove the alcohol.
So to bring this full circle and bring it back home, and the reason why you do winterize is
because you want to remove these lipids, which are harsh.
So you go through this process so that the end smokable product is much more enjoyable to the
consumer.
Exactly.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Right on.
It's a clear product as well.
So to the eye, it's a little bit more desirable.
Winterization had been used to put it in earlier cart technology, right?
So cartridge technology, the lipids would just gum it all up.
Nowadays, you could put raw CO2 that's full of lipids into a cartridge.
I wouldn't recommend it to anybody, but the technology is there where we're able to smoke
thicker and thicker things.
You can put pure distillate into a cartridge and that's the thickest that you're going to have,
terpene-free for the most part, into a cartridge.
And the benefit of that is from all these new carts, because that would never have worked
with a wicking cart.
No, exactly.
The C-cell technology in particular is really making for the ability for us to vaporize
anything.
Yeah.
Big fans of C-cell as well.
Yeah.
So let's lock down another best practice.
So what's something else that you're doing in the lab that you're finding a lot of value in?
So one thing that I really like to do in the lab is reuse the CO2.
So Eden Labs and other companies, they'll tell you, don't reuse your CO2.
You're going to have too much water in there.
One reason or another, your CO2 is going to be less pure.
There is some truth to that.
But in practice, I've noticed that there's not much less ability to extract from reused
CO2 as there is from fresh CO2.
And CO2 production, it uses fossil fuels.
It uses energy that we have.
It uses energy that we have to create those bottles of CO2.
Then there's diesel in the trucks that are used to ship that CO2 around and deliver it
to your location.
So we're using energy to deliver this.
And so I think that the best thing that we can do is reuse everything that we can.
So is there any degradation to the product?
You mentioned a potential for water or at least the suspicion of water in the reusal.
But have you noticed any different in your final products?
Because you run using recycled CO2 all the time.
No.
I've used just fresh and gone straight fresh CO2 and I haven't noticed a yield difference.
I haven't noticed anything different as far as what the product is.
I mean, realistically, there's very little water that's going to make it into your accumulator
tank on a CO2 system.
You're just not really going to have much there because most of the water is going to
drop out in your separator.
The separator should be at a low enough pressure or low enough temperature that the water is
not going to boil.
Because you wouldn't want that hot with your oil sitting in there.
So your oil and your water from every run is going to be in your separator.
And it doesn't carry over as a gas into the accumulator.
At least not in a large part.
There is some carryover.
Just like there's some carryover of terpenes.
And so you could say that there's going to be more terpenes that will collect in the
accumulator as well.
And so using it, you're kind of recycling those terpenes.
I just like to do everything as green as possible and be as little of a burden on the
earth as I can while I'm producing the extracts that I want to produce.
I got to tell you that hearing this as one of your best practices is heartening, but
also not what I was expecting.
I was expecting you to give me another very technical thing.
But considering how bad our industry is right now as far as our CO2 footprint goes between
making all the packaging and using plastic for a one gram nug and all the lights that
we need to use to grow indoors.
The fact that we are able to even take baby steps and to start bringing green
ideology into the scene, I think is overdue and a good thing.
So, you know, and one other thing that we do, some other companies do it, but most companies
don't.
We sell a one gram cartridge.
So in Washington State, we're limited to one gram sales.
That's the most extract that you're allowed to sell in one package.
With all the wicking cart or cartridges that were out there, one grams were horrible.
It was, you know, you would have almost every time you would have a leak by the time you
got through a gram of extract.
So the majority of people went over to a half gram cartridge because it was much more reliable.
You were only going through a half gram of oil.
You had less chance for that to leak.
And the profit margin is a little bit better on selling the half grams, right?
You're able to, you know, you're selling two units and you have a little bit more markup
on each one.
So the majority of the industry has gone to half gram cartridges.
And we sell half gram cartridges because that's what most consumers want.
But we also sell gram cartridges and really would prefer to sell gram cartridges, you
know, so that we have less waste.
There's so much waste that goes into this product.
You know, we've got to try every step to improve what we're doing so that we have less waste.
I got one more question for you before we go to commercial.
And it's on the same idea of efficiencies, of scale.
So, you know, you'll get a half gram cart for X amount of money and then you'll get
a full gram cart for, you know, usually slightly less than double the price of the half gram.
But then, you know, they call them different names, different places.
Some people call them tankers.
Some people call them syringes.
Essentially, it's a packaging that is sold with the assumption that you have your own
empty cartridge at home that you're going to, you know, squeeze this syringe into yourself
and tankers or syringes tend to have a really nice price.
Like whenever given the option, I will always buy a syringe and refill my Jupiter cartridges
that fit my C cell at home.
But honestly, it doesn't seem like it's all that much more hassle to put it in a cartridge
as it is in a syringe.
Why?
What's going on behind the scenes in the lab that explains why tankers or syringes
are so much less than a one gram cart?
Yeah, so filling, the filling cost is equal on a cartridge or a syringe.
Might even be just a hair easier to fill the syringe, but, you know, not really.
It's almost equal.
Almost equal.
What's really going on is the price of the package.
So, I mean, we go with the best syringe that we could find and that's an all glass syringe.
No Pyrex, no, I mean, no plastic, no silicone plunger.
It is glass on glass.
And the cost of that is way less than the cost of either a full gram or a half gram cartridge.
No kidding.
So it's really, I mean, we're selling the oil for the exact same price.
It's all the packaging that is changing what the cost is to the end consumer.
Right on.
Cool.
And actually, I actually way prefer getting the syringe not only because I like to use
my own carts, but I have a hard time throwing those glass on glass syringes away because
they're so nice.
I don't know what I'm going to use them all for someday, but I've got a bunch of them now.
It sounds like me.
I've got a bunch of used ones that are just empty.
Waiting for the right application.
I think that's really the way to go.
And I would really push anybody that's thinking of producing a high terpene content product,
get away from the plastic syringes.
Don't even use something that has a silicone plunger and a glass barrel.
Go for the full glass on glass.
And it's that much better.
You know, when you have a silicone plunger or you've got the plastic syringe, you have
terpenes in there that are going to be eating it.
It's getting into your oil.
You know, when you buy like a gram of distillate, let's say, in one of those things that has
a silicone plunger in it, by the time you plunge down towards the end of it, you'll
notice that the distillate that was clear at the beginning of the gram has now become
cloudy.
And that's because of the lubricants that are used in these syringes or tankers, whatever
you want to call them.
And because of it, you know, it's just the manufacturing things, you know, the silicone
lubricants and break down the plastic.
Terpenes themselves are corrosive.
They're solvents.
You know, they're alcohols.
So they're going to break down anything that they can dissolve.
There you have it.
So go with glass.
Go glass.
All glass.
Not just a glass tanker with a silicone plunger.
Glass on glass.
So let's go ahead and take our second short break.
We'll be right back.
You're listening to Shaping Fire, and my guest today is Jeff Wilhite, Director of Extracts
at Puffin Farm.
Using pesticides when growing cannabis has been common for a long time.
Nowadays, though, we know better.
We know that most pesticides formulated for food crops have never been tested for use
with cannabis.
They've been tested to be eaten in tiny doses.
They have not been tested to be inhaled and especially not concentrated into a cannabis
oil.
Chemical residues from pesticides are not healthy for anyone, but they are especially
dangerous for patients.
For commercial cannabis growers, this has become very impactful.
Cannabis enthusiasts and patients have gotten educated enough that they avoid growers who
used pesticides.
Not only that, but states across the country have begun making pesticide testing mandatory
on all licensed cannabis crops.
The time has come to find a better way to fight garden pests than covering your cannabis
in chemicals.
And there is a better way.
Let some good bugs fight your bad bugs.
Beneficial insects and predatory mites have come a long way since we were buying lady
bugs online and putting them in the grow room and just hoping for the best.
Natural Enemies BioControl can help you solve pest issues without using chemicals.
Natural Enemies founder Shane Young learned best practices from working in the ornamental
plant industry and has fine-tuned those strategies specifically for large cannabis crops.
Shane works with commercial cannabis clients across the country to ensure that they keep
their crops safe and pest-free without the use of chemicals.
Natural Enemies has proven solutions for spider mites, aphids, thrips, russet mites, broad
mites, shore flies, whitefly, and others too.
You can rely on Natural Enemies for expertise and excellent service.
For more information, go to shapingfire.com forward slash natural enemies or simply click
on their banner in this week's newsletter.
Support your plant growth throughout the plant's root zone making for higher yields and thriving
flowers.
Mammoth Pea is the first organically-derived microbial inoculant that focuses on your
plant's nutrient cycling processes to release soil phosphorus and other micronutrients from
their bound forms making them more available to the plant.
Increased levels of phosphorus will also keep internodes shorter and focus your plant's
energy on bud production.
Not only that, but the microbes act as a defense shield for the plant's rhizosphere by
out-competing potentially harmful pathogenic microbes.
Pretty cool, right?
Mammoth Pea not only unlocks the nutrients in your soil, but it also helps protect your
plant from disease.
Mammoth Pea's beneficial bacteria act like microbioreactors, continually producing enzymes
that release nutrients.
Mammoth Pea was developed at a U.S. university and has been extensively tested by Colorado
growers and independent laboratories.
Mammoth Pea is proven to increase growth and enhance blooming.
One of the great things about supplementing with microorganisms is that they won't compete
with whatever fertilizer program you're already running.
Simply dose on top of your fertilizer schedule for increased benefits.
To learn more and to find out where you can buy Mammoth Pea near you, check out their
website at www.mammothmicrobes.com.
Partner with microorganisms to create beautiful, thriving cannabis.
Mammoth Pea.
Welcome back.
You're listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose.
And our guest this week is Jeff Wilhoyt, Director of Extracts at Puffin Farm.
So Jeff, this next section, I want to talk more about getting hands on with the CO2 extractor
itself.
Because when we first met, one of the first things you had told me is that you were modding
yours.
And that scared the hell out of me, right?
You're taking this $80,000, $100,000 machine and you're going to fix it somehow.
And I'm like, dude, are you sure?
But you've had a lot of success with that.
And now you've mentioned some other things to me over the years that you've done.
So let's talk a little bit about modding machines.
So if I remember correctly, let's start with your first mod.
I think it was a retrofit of some sort.
And if I remember correctly, you owned an Apex machine and you wanted it to do something
that it didn't do out of the box.
So kind of break that out, and especially if it's still relevant today.
Right.
Okay.
So it's kind of funny.
You know, Apex was born out of Eden Labs.
So Andy Joseph, the manufacturer of Apex machines, he was the high pressure welder for Eden Labs.
And so he was out of Ohio.
Fritz, the owner of Eden Labs, was from Ohio as well.
So that's how they knew each other.
And at some point, they had this falling out, you know, and things happened.
Andy decided to make his own machine and started a company.
I didn't purchase the Apex machine, but it landed in my hands.
And so we had this machine.
It was gas booster technology, which was not, you know, the cutting edge.
It was kind of an old technology at that point.
And this machine that was built by Andy that kind of had everything good on paper.
He was a good engineer, but he didn't really understand cannabis extraction and what was
going to be happening while the extraction was actually happening.
So there were some things about the machine that didn't quite work very well.
So we would be running our runs and have our separators icing over because the
heater capacity wasn't enough.
We would have all kinds of different issues with the machine.
And no matter what we did, we were not able to get a very high yield.
You know, we were hitting 5% yields as kind of our highest that we could get.
This was an old 1500 PSI machine, and that was based on a lot of the technology in the
machine itself, not necessarily the extraction vessel.
The vessel was rated above 2000 PSI.
And so we were talking with Eden Labs because they're here in Seattle, and Andy was all
the way over in Ohio.
And we'd get one story from Andy, but he didn't really know exactly too much about it.
In 2013, he didn't know too much about running the extractors to extract cannabinoids.
So we had Eden Labs here, and they were happy enough to reach out and help us any way that
they could.
They lent us heat baths to try and overcome the issues where we would have, you know,
our heater wasn't capable of producing enough heat to stop it from freezing over.
And so they would lend us heat baths.
And finally, it came to the point where we were like, yeah, you know, what we really
need to do is have an Eden high flow liquid system.
So it would be instead of a gas booster where gas is compressed by the pump into liquid,
and then that liquid is shot into the extraction vessel, it would be a liquid pump.
Where liquid was pumped from an accumulator tank on the machine through the extraction
vessel, and then it would end up back as a liquid in the accumulator tank after it goes
through the whole machine.
So kind of the way that the machines were running were way different.
The liquid aspect allowed for a lot more, a lot higher flow rate of CO2.
And since, you know, extraction is really based on flow rate, it's how much solvent
are you moving over the material and how much time.
We just decided, hey, let's do this.
So we worked with Eden Labs on designing a retrofit that was kind of custom to the machine
that we had.
And got a secondary skid that sat right next to our machine that had a pump on it.
And we were able to double our extraction yield and cut down the time that it took to
extract.
We were running up to 12 hours and getting only 5% on the Apex 2013 series machine.
And we were able to cut that down to four hours and be able to reliably get 8% to 10%
winterized oil out of it after we were done.
But yeah, so the retrofit, it's really, you know, it's kind of this leap of faith that
we took.
We said, hey, you know, we think that this other system is going to work better for us.
All of the numbers seem to equate.
Let's try it out.
So we had them design it, manufacture it, and we tried it out.
Everything worked great.
So that doesn't sound like a cheap mod, though.
That sounds like that probably cost you a couple of dollars.
Yeah, it was expensive.
Doubling your yield and cutting your time by 60%, 80%, 70-ish percent.
That sounds like a great win, though.
Yeah.
Yeah, I think at the time it was like 36 grand to do it, which compared to the price of a
new five liter extractor at that point, which was a little bit more expensive.
Extractor at that point, which was like, I think they were like 86 or 90,000, somewhere
around that range at that time.
It was way cheap, you know, and they were nice.
They worked with us and helped us be able to make it happen.
Right on.
That's a great solution.
Another thing I like about it, too, is that I'm always a fan of extractors not being afraid
to get under the hood and make some non-stock changes to their gear.
Go ahead.
Oh, I was just going to say, because so often they're like, well, we want to keep it just
like it was sold to us, but so often the machines are sold kind of like as a mean, like, okay,
this is the kind of machine that people, everybody generally needs.
But if your specialty is one thing or another, you might as well hot rod it in that direction.
Yeah, and these machines are built with safety in mind.
There's pressure relief valves everywhere on the system.
So if you do get into a situation where there's an overpressure in any of the vessels, it's
going to just blow it off and you're going to have to say, oh, what did I do?
What caused this?
Figure it out, fix it.
So there's really nothing to worry about as far as hurting yourself with one of these
machines because they're just so, they're built so burly.
Yeah.
So, you know what I mean?
And after that retrofit, it really kind of opened us up to say, hey, look, you can change
everything on this machine.
Let's look at the flow path.
Let's look at how things are going and try to come up with a better way to extract.
And so we actually started doing subcritical runs.
So the way that an Eden Labs high flow machine is set up, you're basically, it's set up to
run a supercritical run.
If you modify it a little bit, slow down the pump and put a chiller on the extraction vessel
instead of a heat bath, you can do a subcritical liquid extraction that's going to get you
a much different constituent profile.
We've, we extracted lots of subcritical runs and really kind of came up with a product
that's similar to what we have today at Puffin, really high terpene content extract that's
free of lipids for the most part.
Lipids are just like the cannabinoids at the higher pressures, they're more extractable.
So if you're going to extract it, you know, 1100 PSI, say for a subcritical run, you're
going to have a much cleaner extract that needs much less post-processing.
Kind of, you know, kind of the way to go now with subcritical, the disadvantage there is
your yield is sacrificed.
So because it's harder to extract those cannabinoids at those lower pressures, you're not going
to get quite as much there.
But, but yeah, so, you know, I mean, what we did for the subcritical mod, we took a
chiller and we cut into the line where the heat bath was and put in a three-way valve
in there where we could select either the heat bath or the chiller and kind of hot
swap it.
So we'd be able to do like a cold subcritical run, get this really terpy extract and then
then do a supercritical run after that, kind of swap that over and you start pumping the
heat bath in there and you're able to get more of a cannabinoid rich secondary cut that
then you could winterize and then you can put those oils back together that first subcritical
run that you haven't winterized and the final winterized extract from the supercritical
run.
So kind of, you know, just trying to go different ways about it.
And I like that idea actually of running it two different ways for two different types
of benefits, but then putting together at the end to make something that's better than
the sum of both.
Yeah, yeah, definitely, definitely.
So we've hit two mods.
We hit the retrofit mod and the subcritical mod.
Do you have one more that you might find interesting?
Yeah, so, you know, really my favorite one and the one that I need to do myself right
now is a heat bath mod.
And so if you buy an Eden Lab system, it comes with two heat baths, one for the extractor,
one for the separator.
And so simply getting a PID controller, which is what, you know, your e-mail uses to, you
know, keep your, it reads a thermocouple, which is a thermometer basically, and has
a heating element attached to it.
So it kind of cycles on and off to keep your e-mail hot.
Same thing on a heat bath.
And what that allows you to do is have just this ultra stable temperature.
So you're not having drift.
When we were working down in Sodo, just where we were on the power grid, there were fluctuations
in the quality of the power that was being delivered.
You know, I don't know if it was just we were near the end of the line.
There's some really, really heavy power consumers down there in the industrial district in Seattle.
And so we would notice a variance of quite 10 degree, up to 20 degree shift in temperature
of our heat bath, where it's, you know, it's at the same setting, but because of the quality
of the power that was coming into the building, we would have this fluctuation between, you
know, the morning and the evening.
And so we just drilled a hole into the heat bath, put a thermocouple in there that had
a gasket fitting on it.
So, you know, the heat bath wouldn't leak.
Hook that thermocouple up to the PID controller, and then had the PID controller, it had a
relay that switched on and off the outlet that the heat bath is plugged into.
So basically, you turn the heat bath on its analog dial all the way up, and then you set
the PID controller for the temperature that you want.
And it would cycle on and off the power, keeping your heat bath at the desired temperature,
rather than running into this, you know, issue of the quality of the power changing it.
And even, you know, I noticed some fluctuation during the day, you know, if it heats up outside,
you know, if you've got an ambient temperature fluctuation, you're going to have a fluctuation
in what your heat bath is getting.
So, you know, to have a stable, repeatable temperature that you're extracting at, a
heat bath mod is really the way to go.
Yeah, the idea of keeping it at one temperature, you know, it's not just for convenience.
We're doing science here, people.
Yeah, exactly.
It's because it's going to extract exactly the same constituents of that temperature.
And if it fluctuates, it's getting something different.
Right on, right on.
Well, Jeff, thank you so much for taking some time to join us again on the show.
I always love chatting with you.
And, you know, honestly, you know, with a lot of my other shows, I've got a very stringent
set of questions that I'm going to walk somebody through.
But one of the things I enjoy about you is that I don't actually always know where we're
going to go because I just kind of follow your path and good things come out.
So I appreciate both your willingness to share your experience, but also your good
cheer and ability to tell stories.
So thanks so much for your time, man.
Yeah, definitely.
And thank you very much for having me out.
It's always a pleasure to be on the show and chat with you about all things cannabis.
I just I love to talk about cannabis.
So, yeah, anytime.
Right on.
Cool, man.
So if you want to follow Jeff on his Instagram, it is a great place to follow along.
And that's at Cannabis Reverend on Instagram.
We've also got a video that's going to be coming out here in a couple of weeks where
I'm going to be working through with Jeff or he'll be explaining to me rather the the
genesis of the Hash Star rating system, because he was there in the early days when it came
about.
And so we're going to talk about that a little bit.
You'll find that on the YouTube channel.
And actually, you really should go over to the YouTube channel and hear and actually
watch a couple of Jeff's presentations made here on Vashon Island, where I live for patients.
He does.
He did a one presentation on doing making bubble hash at home for patients and then
a second one on making ethanol hash oil, aka RSO, for patients as well.
And so so if you're a commercial producer, these are probably not going to be the videos
you want because he's focusing more on using limited materials and ease.
It's not really necessarily scalable, but if you're a patient and you're looking for
a simple way to get involved with it, those are those are great videos to check out.
And the YouTube channel is at YouTube.com forward slash shango los.
You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the show at
shapingfire.com and on Apple iTunes, Stitcher and Google Play.
If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it if you'd leave a positive review of the
podcast wherever you download.
Your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it, too.
On the Shaping Fire website, you can also subscribe to the weekly newsletter for insights
into the latest cannabis news and product reviews.
On the Shaping Fire website, you will also find transcripts of today's podcast as well.
For information on me and where I'll be speaking, you can check out shango los.com.
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire.
I've been your host, Shango Los.
