The best farmers are connected to the land physically, emotionally, and spiritually.
The relationship is incredibly intimate as the farmer tends to the plants and the soil,
and the earth returns food, fiber, and flowers.
The farmer integrates themselves into the living system of the field and becomes one
with nature's cycles and rhythms.
This is the style of cannabis farming that is the pride of the Emerald Triangle area
of Northern California between Humboldt, Mendocino, and Trinity counties.
It's the heart of America's heritage cannabis farming, and this region is spoken of with
reverence by cannabis enthusiasts all over the world.
Today we're going to speak to one such farmer.
Alan Adkisson is an internationally respected proponent and educator of probiotic growing
techniques.
He has developed large-scale anaerobic solid-state fermentation for both the U.S. dairy industry
and the cannabis industry going back decades.
He was mentored by both the revered Eddie Lepp and the late Jack Herrer, whose microorganism
research and development Alan carries on to this day.
He is co-founder of the Probiotic Farmers Alliance group on Facebook and is also founder
of Growkashi, a specialty living fertilizer provider.
He lives in a banana belt region of the Emerald Triangle near Laytonville, California.
I'm your host, Shango Lose, and today's show is packed with insight into both plants and
humans, historical context going all the way back to Roman times, and some awfully fine
storytelling.
So sit back, slow down, and enjoy this week's episode of Shaping Fire.
Welcome to the show, Alan.
Hey, I'm glad to be here.
Thank you for inviting me.
Yeah, absolutely.
So, you know, before we go into the meat of the show, I totally want you to talk a little
bit about where you live because, you know, in the short time that we've been getting
to know each other, you've been telling me about where you live there in Northern California,
and it just sounds like a totally amazing place to not only live, but grow cannabis.
Will you just tell everybody about it a little bit?
Okay.
I live in what's known as a banana belt region here in Mendocino, California, in a town called
Laytonville.
I live at the bottom of a peak called Cotto Peak.
And let me think, four or five of your past Emerald Cup winners are my neighbors here
in our neighborhood.
And on the backside of my property is probably one of the most well-known vineyards in the
region too.
And so, you know, that many great Emerald Cup winners are coming from that area.
Are people trying to come there to grow because of the additional sun that you get or is there
something special with the local soil or do you just get less, you know, less mist so
that it's less likely to get mold?
I mean, what's the magic there?
Well, I think that 4,500 foot peak behind us, the onshore flow splits and goes around
us.
The microclimate here is very unique and that's what makes it possible to grow grapes
in this area.
I imagine it would be a great region also for, you know how like shade-grown coffees
and things like that are preferred?
Yeah.
I think we have kind of the same type of climate here.
And when I first moved here, the property above me, it was dominated by the cartel
heroes.
And after the landholder had gotten in trouble a few times, they needed some people that
could move onto that property and, you know, exclude, you know, the cartel from coming
back.
That's where I brought in, I put, are you familiar with Leo Stone from Aficionado?
Yeah, totally.
Leo and Gene.
Yeah.
Okay.
So Leo was working for an old friend of mine and their partnership was just splitting up.
And you know, Leo was in the army.
So I put Leo and another friend of mine that was ex-special forces on the property above
me and that's where Aficionado was born.
Wow.
That's a great story.
I'm really glad I asked.
And you know, there's something about having your grow in this shadow of the mountain or,
you know, essentially being protected by the mountain since the mountain is splitting
the clouds.
There's some romance in that.
Yeah.
I don't know what I did to be so blessed as to have the universe, you know, let me have
the property that I'm living on now.
But it's a beautiful place and I'm just honored to be here.
Right on.
Fantastic.
So let's talk some probiotics.
So, you know, we talk a lot about probiotic growing on this show, but you know, for a
lot of growers still using bottled nutrients, that term may not actually mean anything.
I mean, they know that it's some kind of natural growing, but because they're so used to using
bottles and may not have done the research yet, they, you know, the term doesn't mean
much for them.
Would you explain the frustration that many cannabis growers have with bottled nutrients
and why a probiotic approach is different?
Well, one thing that many of us realized is that because I mean, most of us, I'm not excluded.
I came from the bottle background too.
I originally came here from Sacramento and I worked for and with Dale and Molly Fry.
They taught me how to grow with like earth juice.
But when I moved up here, you know, I kind of fell in like everyone else and started,
you know, using bottles because they were so easy to use and the appearance, you know,
the bag appeal was incredible.
You know, what came from some of like the original 3-2-1 mix from General Hydroponics
created some incredible, incredible crops.
You just had to really have your flesh game on, you know, strong so that, you know, it
wasn't so noticeable that they were grown with synthetics.
After a while though, you know, especially if one has any kind of a vision or anything
like that, it kind of keeps you from going that route any longer.
I'll tell you a story, okay?
I come from the dairy industry.
I was in the dairy industry for roughly 25 years in the Sacramento Valley and up in the
Yakima Valley in Washington.
I ran my dad's subsidiary company up north.
One of my customers, we covered silage pits.
They say that we were instrumental in, you know, getting the farmers to adopt solid state
fermentation with their feed for silage.
That's a fancy way to say we covered it and fermented it, you know?
I was working at this mega dairy up in Washington State called the Ord Dairy.
Henry Ord, he decided that he wanted to have the runoff from our fermenting of the silage
pits go into his manure lagoon.
And what happened is instead of the manure lagoon, you know, being the typical one with,
you know, everything dead all around it, his manure lagoon was starting to attract, you
know, frogs, ducks, things like that.
And the only thing we could figure was that maybe it was because the runoff from using
the lactic acids and things to ferment the silage was in some way bioremediating some
of the toxins in the manure lagoons that, you know, keep wildlife from coming typically
around them.
And we did some scientific testing and fairly quickly, the Ord Dairy, his manure lagoon
and his dairy was no longer, you know, regarded as part of this toxic superfund site.
That's where we kind of developed, you know, way back.
I mean, this is like 1993 or 4, the theory of beneficial runoff coming from these silage
pits that we were inoculating and fermenting with lactic acid bacterias.
And I worked with some of the best nutritionists from UC Davis because through fermentation
we could make the food more bioavailable for the animals also.
Well, we took in, we used the same theory.
I started working with Reverend Eddie Lep, you know, at the healing fields, the famous
healing fields.
And he wanted to buy this 40 acres and across the highway from his main facility and grow
the huge garden that everyone knows, you know, it was so famous now.
And we, he asked me, Alan, how do you think we should irrigate it?
And I said, well, you've got that canal right there that runs through the middle of the
40 acres and goes directly to Clear Lake.
And he said, yeah, but if we do that, then, you know, we're going to get in trouble with
EPA from the runoff from the fields.
I said, well, wait a minute, let's, let's go back and use, you know, some of the technology
that I used in the dairy industry and claim beneficial runoff.
And then what we'll do is we'll test the canal and prove, you know, that the runoff
from the crops was beneficial to Clear Lake.
It proved out to be true.
We basically made a 40 acre ebb and flow.
That's pretty radical, actually, you know, I mean, not only reputationally, since cannabis
runoff has got such a bad reputation and agricultural runoff generally has got a bad reputation.
The idea that your runoff could actually be beneficial to the natural environment and
not throw it out of balance, that's a pretty radical thought.
Well, I mean, not only that, it would be, in my opinion, proper risk management, right?
Test your runoff and prove scientifically that it's beneficial for the local ecology.
And that way, if some state regulator or someone wanted to come and pull your licensing, it
would give you standing in a court of law to, you know, keep them at arm's length and
keep your operation running.
Yeah, that makes sense.
And I think it's probably worthwhile to unpack the idea of the fermented materials that you're
putting on top.
You know, essentially what you're doing is you are adding microbial communities to, you
know, both the grow and then the surrounding areas.
And so instead of just pounding your crops with NPK that when it runs off, it throws
nature out of balance.
Instead of just adding those, you're actually adding the, you know, the basic communities
of life.
And so when they run off your property, they're just, you know, they're just providing the
basic communities of life in a different place.
Exactly, exactly.
Although I would add one thing to it.
You don't want to just add the microbes.
You want to add the microbes and the prebiotics that are necessarily to, while they're breeding,
you want to meet every epigenetic need that they might have.
We want super microbes.
So what kind of diet, you know, what are these prebiotics that you add that, you know, gives
them this buffet so that they can go hog wild?
Well, if you understand oneness with the soil and the microbes and you understand that you
yourself are, you're predominantly made of microorganisms, then I thought, I'm going
to treat my fermentations and my microbes the same way that a naturopathic doctor would
treat a female with a fertility issue.
So when I make like our Grokashi product, I add a multivitamin mineral complex and lots
of other, you know, like fresh juiced beet juice and things like that, all organic.
And I really go out of my way.
I treat my 300 pound fermentation barrel nutritionally as if it was a person.
And we were treating that person for a fertility issue.
That makes sense to me.
You're, you're, you're creating a beneficial environment for growth.
Yeah.
And so if, if the prebiotics that we use in our, in our solid state fermentation aren't
used up during the fermentation, then they still are basically in the toolbox of the
microbes to be handed out later on.
Yeah, that makes sense to me.
So, so we're going to talk more about the particular fermentations that you prefer in
the second set.
But, but before we wrap up the first set here, you know, we started by talking about the
bottles and the 3, 2, 1 and the, like the really beautiful, you know, bag, beautiful
flowers that you got with that.
And then you said you shifted to the, you know, the probiotics.
So I'm sure that there's a lot of growers who are concerned that they'll have lesser
yields or that the flowers will have less bag appeal from moving from bottled nutrients
to nutrient teas and such that we're talking about today.
You know, what have you seen from others who have gotten brave and made the jump from what
they are, you know, they're comfortable with in the bottle to something more natural that
we're talking about today?
Well, first, can I tell you that I didn't just make the jump because of ecology, although
that's a very strong point.
I made the jump because I was an Emerald Cup judge and I was thinking, what in the world
is the difference in the winners?
I'm a pretty competitive guy, you know, and so I was thinking that it might mean nutrient
density, you know, because in wine, that's the difference between something that has,
you know, complex aroma and taste is, you know, high nutrient density is everything
in wine.
You know, you know what low density, low nutrient density wine is called?
No, I don't.
It's vinegar.
Oh.
So anyway, I said, how can I test this?
I called up a company called Natural Check and I talked to the CEO and he actually owns
the company too, but he said, you know, Alan, I've been waiting 20 years for somebody from
cannabis to call me and what I want to share with you is that in my 20 years in the field,
I've never seen anything grown with synthetics reach a high nutrient density level.
And I said, oh my God, that's interesting.
I have access to all of these entries from the Emerald Cup.
What if we, you and I could figure out a way to reconstitute the herb and then I could
get use your refractometer to get a Bricks rating on it?
And he said, okay, that's great.
We did that.
And what I found is that all of our winners had a very high nutrient density content compared
to the rest of the contestants.
So they were super packed with, I mean, life force for lack of a better term.
They had way more trace minerals in them than the plants and the entries that really never
stood out.
So I thought, huh, well, how can I reach this nutrient density level?
It's through natural farming practices, through basically allowing the plant to live in symbiosis
with these mycelium and these probiotic microorganisms in the soil.
And so fast forward a few years, I'm working with Eddie and well, how do I say this without
sounding crazy?
Just go for it.
We're good with crazy here.
Okay.
So I'm working with, I knew Eddie for seven years and I hung out and I watched people
come and go and Eddie had this famous poster on his stairs that showed all the Illuminati
families and he was always like, those are the bad guys.
And I was like, yeah, but Eddie, you see that Keller name right there?
I'm a Keller.
I go, we're no different than the microbes.
You know, those families, 5% of those families are good people because I fully believe that
we're no different than the microbes we're made out of.
5% are, you know, roughly of us are pathogenic.
So basically, you know, sociopaths and psychopaths, 5% of us are probiotic, you know, like people
that are more empathic.
And then 90% roughly of us of our species are, well, they're opportunistic, just like
the microbes.
It's sad to say, but I believe this.
And so he said, well, what do you mean?
I go, well, I'm a Keller.
Look on your thing there.
You're saying that all those families and everyone in them are bad.
And I'm saying, you've known me for how many years?
You really think that, you know, I'm an evil person just because I come from one of those
families?
He said, no, matter of fact, I want to share something with you.
I'm like, okay.
He goes, be back here next week.
The people that are in the know, know that at Eddie's farm, seasonally, they had like
a tea ceremony where it was like a tea for a Southwestern shaman, you know, mushrooms
and such.
Yeah, yeah.
And so I go, I went back down there and I'm a guy who, I'm an old bouncer and stuff.
I had only smoked pot and drank alcohol.
I always steered clear of hard drugs and I had never done mushrooms or anything like
that.
And so I brought my wife down with me because Eddie wanted me to stay the night, you know,
and do this tea ceremony at midnight.
And I also was a guy who had built, you know, three companies previous to getting into,
you know, the cannabis game.
And so I did that, you know, with like Tony Robbins using his programs.
And so I know that if you're going to go meet someone important, you know, the very
best way that you could honor them is to try to come up with a great question for them
that you think they might want to answer.
Well, I don't know.
You know, I guess if you're going to do mushrooms and have a mushroom tea, maybe you're trying
to meet God or something or nature.
And so earlier in the day, my brother, who was doing great with the sub irrigated planters,
these earth boxes, he said, Alan, I think, and he's pretty intuitive, my brother is,
he said, I think these earth boxes have something to do with like the technology behind the
hanging gardens of Babylon.
So I go down there and I'm going to go to this tea ceremony and my wife and I go upstairs
to go to sleep.
We come back down, do the tea ceremony, go back up to go to sleep, you know, at about
one o'clock.
And I wrote down on a piece of paper, how did the hanging gardens of Babylon operate?
And I fell asleep to what looked like a stack of different colors moving back and forth.
And I just had this weird, first of all, it was like a mission.
It was like, if you should accept this mission, you know, and okay, I'm down.
And I had this dream and it was like, you know how in a computer when you put a zip
drive in, like nothing's there and you put the zip drive in and it's all there.
And I kind of saw, I didn't kind of saw, I got like the business plan on how those gardens
operated and how they use solid state fermentations because those people in those times were the
kings of fermentation and how they used these sub irrigated planters.
But the sub irrigated planter really represented a gut.
And what you did is there was like a fairly soilless medium in the bottom.
You built a mycelial mat on top of it.
Then you put your manure on top of that, but then they covered it with a skin so that the
mycelium and the things that are normally light pruned are no longer light pruned.
And so that because they were in a desert region, the thing used about a third of the
water that any other type of farming would use.
It took me two years to talk myself into trying it.
But when I did try it, it not only worked, but it worked exceptionally well.
And so we started, Eddie was in prison about that time and we started doing a methodology
patent for what it meant to be probiotically farmed.
And let's see where I can go from there.
We were working with a patent attorney down in the Bay Area who apparently talked to some
friends about the work we were doing.
And the next thing you know, we had some people from the alcohol and tobacco industry contacting
us.
And they were all friendly at first.
They wanted, because we were doing this patent methodology patent in the name of humanity
because, you know, you don't want like information like that to be taken and shelved away.
And so they contacted us and they wanted to give us like five million dollars for Eddie's
likeness and all rights to probiotically farmed in the methodology patent.
But they would not in any way guarantee that they wouldn't shelf the technology.
So we told them no.
And then all of a sudden they started mentioning some friends of ours that were in free energy
that had had gag orders and things placed upon them.
And they were kind of threatening that they could not only place a gag order on us somehow,
but they could make Eddie's time in prison rougher.
I mean, at first they're like, yeah, sign with us.
We could put the legal team on and maybe even get Eddie out of prison a little early.
Yeah.
So they were in a bit of a ratatouille at this point.
No matter of fact, they just became dicks about it.
And so I called Eddie and Eddie said, Alan, I want you if you're down, go up to it because
I was headed to the Emerald Cup that day.
And he said, make it public knowledge.
Tim allowed me to do a quick workshop.
And I just taught everyone everything we knew right then and there.
Wow.
That's a very fortunate thing.
I mean, not only for everybody who was there and for the ideas behind the tech, but geez,
I mean, that could have gotten bottled up from that point forward.
That was a pretty brave move just to decide to tell everybody all at once and get that
information out there.
Yeah.
We had some plants that were grown.
There's some videos that you saw on Discovery Channel where Tim Blake was walking through
one of his greenhouses and he was petting this one plant in the middle of the greenhouse.
That's the plant that I planted that day.
Right on.
Well, hey, I want to hear more of the story, but we need to take our first short break
and be right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
And my guest today is Alan Atkison, founder of the Probiotic Farmers Alliance and Grokashi.
If you like podcasts like Shaping Fire, chances are that you'll like audio books too.
Just like with podcasts, audio books speak to you, tell you stories and teach you stuff.
Here's the thing.
Audible.com has an offer that I want to tell you about.
Right now, they're offering a trial of their audio book service for absolutely free.
You can go to shapingfire.com forward slash audible and you'll get a free audio book
straight up.
You can listen to it on your mobile device, computer or download it and listen to it like
anywhere.
It's really simple.
Of course, they want you to subscribe to their service after the free trial and enjoy
audio books forever, but you don't have to.
All you have to do to get the free audio book of your choice is to just check out the service
for free.
The service is pretty great.
There are whole sections on permaculture, sci-fi, history, biography, hell, you can
even listen to a book about card counting and blackjack.
Whatever, it's all pretty rad.
That's the deal.
Your first book is free.
It's easy to sign up.
It's easy to quit.
Their online library of free books is pretty incredible.
Just check it out.
Go to shapingfire.com forward slash audible to find out more or just click on the link
in this week's newsletter.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I am your host, Shango Lose.
Our guest this week is Alan Atkisson, founder of the Probiotic Farmers Alliance on Facebook
and Growkashi.
Before the break, we were talking about the history of probiotic growing coming to the
cannabis world and how you essentially made that information open source at an emerald
cup.
But one thing I want to hit before we go into what some of your preferential nutrient fermentations
are is there's a lot of people who are going to be weighing using synthetic nutrients to
get really bag-worthy flowers with really great bag appeal versus going the probiotic
route which takes a little bit more effort and you never really locked down about the
flower itself, why you think it's better than the synthetic stuff.
So if you'd hit that for me before we move on, I'd appreciate that.
Oh, sure.
Okay.
It's my opinion that when you let a mycelial mat dictate the delivery, how much nutrients
and exactly what nutrients and trace minerals are delivered to the plant, that's when you
can achieve these very high nutrient density levels.
I think that some people, they fall victim when they first try to go organic and they
don't understand that it's going to take your soil one, two, sometimes maybe three crops
to get up to its full potential.
By the time your second or third, people in no-till know this, but by the time your soil
gets up to its second or third crop, that's when you really start competing heavily with
the same yields that we would have attained from our bottled crops.
Now I will say this, when I first started doing this to get traction with people, we
called it anaerobic hydroponics through probiotics.
And I put on a series that you can find.
If you go into the Probiotic Farmers Alliance and you type in DEP on a dime, I showed people
every day.
I said, okay, here's what we're going to do.
We're going to show you every day what we did on the crop.
And we were able to grow a crop of the Synex.
We had some other plants, but Synex was mainly what I was working with because it had been
heavily tested by SC labs and other labs.
So we knew what to expect from it.
When we grew it out using our probiotic methodology, or what we call probiotically farmed with the
tips, it set new records for terpenes.
And to this day, now that was around a year and a half ago.
And one of the top clubs up here is owned by Tim Blake and it's the Healing Harvest
Farms Club.
We have held the top price point for a year and a half with the Synex from that crop that
we grew in front of everybody.
So I wanted to alleviate people's fears that they would not be able to compete if they
took this route.
Right on.
That's what I was looking for.
And so is the bag appeal the same visually?
Because sometimes when describing synthetic and indoor versus probiotic and outdoor, it
feels like they both produce decent flowers, but the indoor synthetic stuff looks like
an Olympian and sometimes looks a little strange because it's so grown in a super unnatural
artificial kind of way, but the product you get is still amazing and wins insane awards
and is enjoyable to smoke.
But then you've got the other kind of folks, like think of maybe like a high school cross
country runner, also super fit, but they run on country roads and they're obviously
a fit person, but they're a little more natural.
And so these are both incredible athletes, but they appear differently.
Does the probiotic stuff, when it smells good, does it still have the coloration that you
get with synthetics?
Or do you give up a little bit of that for a nose and a taste that'll blow everybody
away?
No, we surpass the synthetics.
One of the statements that we made early on is that the truth is in the smoke.
Now in our community, one of the cool things about our community is I don't care who is
in the smoking circle.
I could be standing there with Kyle or Ed or rest his soul, Jack or Eddie, any of these
people, and we're not like typical wine snobs.
If some kid walks up to our circle and has an herb that'll blow our mind, that's what's
cool about cannabis.
A lot of people in our industry talk the talk, but if you can show up with herb that blows
people's minds, that's walking the walk.
I was able to be successful doing that, but now with the PFA, we're coming up on 20,000
members there.
There are people that are actually using our logo, growing probiotically to establish themselves
in their local markets because people are looking.
They're going around at the clubs looking and asking, okay, where can I get probiotically
farm materials?
When we say the proof is in the smoke, if it wasn't, they would call bullshit on us,
and they would have a long time ago.
Yeah, that makes sense.
If I saw a PFA logo on somebody's grow, I would be attracted to that.
In a way, it's kind of like a seal of approval.
The things that I've learned, and let's be real clear, the Probiotic Farmers Alliance
is a group on Facebook, about 20,000 people strong, where everybody is discussing in detail
these techniques that we're merely skimming the surface of today.
That's where I got turned on to probiotics and met Alan, luckily.
So anyway, you should check that out if you're into this topic that we're talking about today.
But your logo itself, the purple triangle, if I saw that on somebody's grow, I would
immediately be into that stuff because I know that it's grown in a way that I aspire to
grow better at, and it probably tastes great, and I know that it's not going to have any
garbage in it.
Right.
And even the logo.
You know, the group designed the logo.
The group started as just beta testers.
I took 25 testers, and when you say that I'm the founder of PFA, that's technically, I'm
a co-founder.
Michael Fong, people know him as M4K at Gage Green, I was working with them at the time,
and he and I started it with the 25 first people in what's now the PFA.
They were from the Gage Green testers, and when we were done beta testing, we had 300
or 400 members by then of Bokashi because we had the members help us formulate it.
We wanted to know of the top growers, what would you want in your Bokashi?
If you were going to have a dream Bokashi?
So he helped me form that, and that's where it all started.
Right on.
Cool.
Well, thank you for clarifying that.
I always like to have the oral history to be straight.
We've got about four or five minutes here before our next break, and I'd love to have
you describe how to make ... I know there's lots of different nutrient teas that can be
made.
Would you just give a simple recipe that people can start with so that they can see what it's
like to make their own fermentation and treat their plants with it so that we have a place
to start for people, and then hopefully they get excited by the results, and then they
start researching more and join the Probiotic Farmers Alliance.
So give us something simple that people can start with.
It depends on what's local in their region.
These skills can really be looked at as a survival skill.
What would I do if I only had horse manure, or what would I do if I only had rabbit manure,
or llama, or alpaca?
You would make a tea out of it and basically make a beverage that you're going to feed
to the earth.
One problem with manure teas and things like that is there could be a pathogen hiding in
it, so we depend on competitive exclusion to out-compete those pathogens by using our
favorite probiotics, which is the lactic acids and the lactic acid bacterias.
So look and find what's around you.
Like Jack Herr wanted me to use sugar sources from different crops grown locally around
Clear Lake at the time too for biodiversity.
Sometimes we had plums available to us and all this, but later on we decided to use beets
because a beet is a sugar source that basically grows right in the mycelial layer.
I also wanted to make sure that the streptomyces was in our bokashi, so I knew it was going
to be in the wheat because I use a Mennonite grown organic hard red winter wheat bran,
but then as a backup, because my theory is two is one, one is none.
So I knew that if I use the beet and the wheat, I'm going to make sure that I have plenty
of IMOs and especially the streptomyces in it.
That streptomyces and the LAB are going to out-compete any pathogens that might be hiding
in other components that you can find to put in your tea.
So to break this down even more basic, so are you saying that you take a five gallon
bucket and cut up some beets and put your hard winter wheat in there and fill it with
water and put a bubbler in it and let it sit for three days and let it start to ferment?
I mean, is it that simple?
No, I put it all in my solid state fermentation first and then after that I can take my solid
state fermentation and put it in a bucket and I really wouldn't use a bubbler because
these are more anaerobic microorganisms.
It would be like if you were making a beer or a kvass, you wouldn't use a bubbler.
I understand now.
And when you say solid state, is that more of what I think of like traditional compost,
like just meaning no added liquids?
No, there's added liquids, but it's at roughly a 60% moisture content.
So you mix it up until it's good and wet, you know, but a good rule of thumb would be
when you make your solid state fermentation, add fluid until you can just barely squeeze
some drops of water out of it.
I mean, it was the same indicator that we used for silage when I was working with the
nutritionists from Davis.
They would tell me, Alan, check the silage while they're bringing it in from the fields
and let me know if you can squeeze water and it rolls down your wrist, call me because
I'll have the truck stop harvesting the crop from the field.
I see.
So you mix the beets and you mix the wheat and you add just a little bit of fluid and
you get it all churned up and you just let it sit.
How long would you let that sit and ferment before you go ahead and put it in to water
to make your tea?
You know, with a solid state fermentation, the best way to tell if it's done is wait
for the pressure to stop, number one.
And number two, when you take that material, add water, let it sit overnight and your pH
goes to four or just under four, you know that you've had a successful fermentation.
Would you break out that part you said you ferment it till it stops?
What exactly do you mean by that?
Well, you know, when you're making a fermentation like beer or anything else like that, you
know, the pressure that is the off gassing that occurs.
Yeah.
Wait for the off gassing that is occurring to stop.
I see.
One way is that, I mean, in the old days, I used to put a balloon on the barrel, you
know, on a barb and it would blow up the balloon.
And then when the balloon stopped blowing up and it contracted, I would know the fermentation
was complete.
Nowadays, I just, you know, I know in these food grade barrels how many days it takes
me.
So I don't have to do that research anymore.
Yeah, right on.
And when I make, you know, sauerkraut and stuff, I use a plug on the top of my carboy
that, you know, it's an S curve and it's got water in it.
So I can tell that there's bubbles going through it.
So you just throw one of those on top.
And then when that stops giving off gases, you know that you're good to put it in some
water.
So when you do just immediately put it in water, mix it up and put it on the plants,
because I would think that going from the dry state to being in the water state, if
you don't use it right away, that you're going to choke off the microbes that are
living in there.
Yeah.
What you want to do at that point is dry it and then you can store it, you know, like
you've got these.
How did Joseph make the wheat stay good for seven years for the Pharaoh?
He fermented it and then he dried it and then they put it away.
That's what we do with this stuff.
I see.
And so once it's on the shelf, when you want to reactivate it and put it on your
crops, do you take it out and just put it, you know, mix it right into your food grade
right into your soil?
Or are you making even even bothering to make a tea out of it at that point?
Well, what we want to do is have a multipurpose product.
And so we could if we make a tea out of it, then we can apply it fully early.
But if we apply it, you know, as the tea, we're not really putting down the trace
minerals onto the soil surface.
So you could go both routes, make a tea out of some of it and then go in and broadcast
your Bokashi onto the soil surface roughly every 10 days to two weeks, depending on how
big the plant is, because we're not just giving the plant and the soil the probiotics
that it needs.
We're giving it the probiotics that it needs and the prebiotics, you know, the food for
the microbes to keep the microbes happy and very active.
If we if we can keep that like the streptomyces in bloom and we can see it growing, then we
know that it is both making the plant's immune system and the soil's immune system,
everything that it can be at its zenith.
And also that the photosynthesis will occur at the highest rate possible.
Right on, I follow you.
So before we go to break, I just want to say that, you know, there is, you know, hopefully
at this point we have gotten folks excited about, OK, that there's alternatives to the
bottle that you can create these, you know, these ultra rich microbe communities and mycelium
communities in your substrate, and they will make the most amazing plants that you've ever
grown, though it might take you a cycle or two or three to get your soil up to speed.
But but the goal here is to to to let people know to have faith that there is another solution
other than the bottle.
You'll have the best growth of your life and you know, you should read some and probably
join the Probiotic Farmers Alliance Facebook group so that you can learn and share information
with others.
And, you know, you'd be producing a much better flower that's better for the people who smoke
and you know, you get to have some fun learning along the way.
So with that, let's go to our second commercial and then come back and talk a little bit about
the business side of probiotics.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
My guest today is Alan Adkisson, founder of the Probiotics Farmers Alliance and Growkashi.
Using pesticides when growing cannabis has been common for a long time.
Nowadays, though, we know better.
We know that most pesticides formulated for food crops have never been tested for use
with cannabis.
They've been tested to be eaten in tiny doses.
They have not been tested to be inhaled and especially not concentrated into a cannabis
oil.
Chemical residues from pesticides are not healthy for anyone, but they are especially
dangerous for patients.
For commercial cannabis growers, this has become very impactful.
Cannabis enthusiasts and patients have gotten educated enough that they avoid growers who
used pesticides.
Not only that, but states across the country have begun making pesticide testing mandatory
on all licensed cannabis crops.
The time has come to find a better way to fight garden pests than covering your cannabis
in chemicals.
And there is a better way.
Let some good bugs fight your bad bugs.
Beneficial insects and predatory mites have come a long way since we were buying lady
bugs online and putting them in the grow room and just hoping for the best.
Natural Enemies BioControl can help you solve pest issues without using chemicals.
Natural Enemies founder Shane Young learned best practices from working in the ornamental
plant industry and has fine-tuned those strategies specifically for large cannabis crops.
Shane works with commercial cannabis clients across the country to ensure that they keep
their crops safe and pest-free without the use of chemicals.
Natural Enemies has proven solutions for spider mites, aphids, thrips, russet mites, broad
mites, shore flies, white fly, and others too.
You can rely on Natural Enemies for expertise and excellent service.
For more information, go to shapingfire.com forward slash natural enemies or simply click
on their banner in this week's newsletter.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I am your host, Shane Golos.
And our guest this week is Alan Atkison, founder of the Probiotic Farmers Alliance and GrowKashi.
So, you know, I know that you, uh, your life's work as far as probiotics go was the development
and the releasing of GrowKashi, which is, you know, your own special blend of Bokashi.
And, you know, I had never heard of Bokashi before I joined the Probiotic Farmers Alliance
to learn about it.
So why don't you take a moment and kind of explain what it is and how it works to kind
of bring people up to speed.
Cause you know, I know when I first, when I used it for the first time after you gave
me a sample of an emerald cup, I freaked out a little bit cause like all this stuff
I had never seen happened in my soil, you know, all this out of control mycelium and
unidentified microbes and colorful, but beneficial molds.
It was very strange.
So why don't you go ahead and just talk a little bit about what Bokashi is from a probiotic
level and we'll kind of just take it from there.
Okay.
The Bokashi would be a supplement that you add to your soil, you know, so that you could
take advantage of competitive exclusion out on the crops and the fields.
In Roman times, you know, it was used, you know, how you had the different deities.
One of the deities in Roman times, one of the gods was called Lacturnus and Lacturnus
was in, you know, we know it as lactic acid bacteria, but it was in charge of the safeguarding
and the storage of crops.
The other one, the streptomyces mycelium we're talking about, I'm still looking for more
links so that I can really nail this down, but it was known as St. Anthony's snow and
everyone knows about St. Anthony's fire, you know what I mean?
It's ergodism and things like that and it gets into the joints of people.
Well, the cure for St. Anthony's fire was the St. Anthony's snow, this actinomyces,
streptomyces.
And what we know is that when all the wheat back in those days was put away, you know,
there was a labor force that had to ferment it and put it away and one of the reasons
why it was done by hand is that as these Roman soldiers were returning, well, let me say
this to you, when you create a soldier, you must create a psychopath because that soldier
has to be able to kill.
To re-indoctrinate that soldier into society, what you need is some sort of an empathogen,
you have to re-install empathy into that soldier and that's why they would have had this work
done by hand by these soldiers that were having problems that were coming back.
You know, direct exposure to the hands and the feet with the lactic acid bacteria and
by the way, we can go to Google Scholar and look this up and find that, you know, the
that PTSD treatments, they are scientifically valid PTSD treatments that include these probiotics
that we're talking about, especially lactic acid bacteria.
It re-installs empathy in people.
So my thought is, well, let's do the same thing.
I will get myself, I'll surround myself with veterans that, you know, have had or still
have PTSD and have them make these products and watch the outcome.
And what I've watched is a real turnaround in a lot of these guys.
So I've worked with small business administration and will continue to provide therapy to these
guys through their involvement in this Bokashi or Gokashi making.
It's also nice because, you know, we're always looking with the veterans to provide retraining
when they come back.
So working in solid state fermentation technologies is a, that's a great avenue for them to go,
you know, into.
Yeah, and you're getting these folks who are, you know, skilled and really good at project
management and getting things done.
And you're teaching them how to use those skills in a way that's, you know, good for
the neighbors, good for the neighborhood, good for the environment.
What an amazing retraining program.
And just the idea that them working with the labs and probably handling the soil with their
hands as well, the fact that that's all healing them and regrowing empathy in them.
I mean, that's really profound.
I didn't actually know you were going like that far with this.
And that's pretty heavy duty stuff.
I've never heard that before.
I want to share some news that I got just this last week.
Now, one of my, I'm folding the Grokashi company in and Grokashi is going to be a product under
the plant candy label.
Plant candy also will have liquid humates that are revolutionary because our partners
hold like 170 patents in the gold mining industry.
And one of the problems with liquid humates is heavy metal content.
So when we run these humates through gold mining equipment, we can pull out most of
the heavy metals and get them out of the way.
Now, what's cool is that one of my partners has a direct avenue with four of the largest
oil companies right now.
So imagine if you will, oil pipelines, you know, they're prone to rupture.
It happens.
So if we found the average amount of oil that was spilled from one of these, and we know
that like Bokashi's have been used, EM Bokashi's have been used like on the Exxon Valdez or
no, I think it was the Costco Busan here in the Bay Area to clean up oil.
So if we figure out the amount of oil that's regularly spilled and we have the veterans
make that much Bokashi, you know, three times the amount of the average spilled, we can
and have it on site.
Then it provides retraining for the veterans.
But we're getting great involvement with the oil companies because.
Wherever the rupture occurs, we go there and we will train the veterans and have the veterans
in that area make the Bokashi for the next oil spill.
So the area that was ecologically impacted.
They're also going to get funding in the form of, you know, those veterans in that area
are hired and retrained to make the Bokashi for the next oil spill cleanup.
So if it was 10,000 barrels that they spilled, we're going to make 30,000 barrels of Bokashi
in that region.
And so it's.
You're you're adding to the local economy, too.
Yeah, absolutely.
And and getting training for those local vets.
We've we found a way with these corporate sponsors.
You know, I pray it goes through the way we hope it does.
But it looks it looks like it is going to become a reality that we're going to be able
to open up shop wherever these oil spills occur.
Yeah, it feels very much like a kind of a Johnny Appleseed as the as the environmental
blight happens.
You're suddenly coming in and teaching the local vets how to make Bokashi, which then
fixes the environment and also creates new local business and retrains the vet.
It sounds like it's a win, win, win, win.
Like everybody involved gets a win.
Exactly.
It's it.
I hate to be too simple at it, but or stating it, but it's like threatening them with a
good time because it's it's the best public relations that they could ask for.
Right on.
So, hey, I really appreciate you taking the time to be on the show, Alan.
You know, even though we're reaching the end of the show here, I can tell that you've got
stories for days and we probably could have had to show this three times as long.
But thanks for taking the time out of your busy schedule to to share with us your vision
of probiotics and kind of break it down at, you know, not only a scientific level, but,
you know, you really gave a lot of the history and romance of it, too.
Even though I read your posts all the time, you gave me a new perspective of of working
with fermentation as well.
So so I appreciate you and sharing what you know.
Thank you.
I'm honored just to be here.
Some some of my closest friends you've interviewed and you've impressed me every time.
I like to try to surround myself with people that are so smart that they scare me.
Well, one thing with this show is I'm able to surround myself with people that know more
than I do.
And because I'm, you know, I'm in media, I'm able to reach out to, you know, folks like
you who inspire me.
And happily, you all are willing to talk to me.
So it's a it's a benefit of what I do.
So thank you very much.
Alan Adkisson is founder of the Probiotic Farmers Alliance and Grow Kashi.
You can connect with Alan at grow-kashi.com.
That's g-r-o-k-a-s-h-i.com.
And or you can search for the Probiotic Farmers Alliance group on Facebook.
There's also links on the podcast episode page and in this week's newsletter, too.
You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the show at
shapingfire.com and on Apple iTunes, Stitcher, and Google Play.
If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it if you'd leave a positive review of the
podcast wherever you download.
Your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it, too.
On the Shaping Fire website, you can also subscribe to the weekly newsletter for insights
into the latest cannabis news and product reviews.
On the Shaping Fire website, you will also find transcripts of today's podcast as well.
For information on me and where I will be speaking, you can check out shangolose.com.
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire.
I've been your host, Shango Lose.
