Weed used to be just a local thing.
It was essentially your pot dealer and your friends you smoked it with.
But now that the US has taken its boot off everyone's neck regarding prohibition, weed
and pot has become cannabis and is now a global business phenomenon.
Countries are trading back and forth, and the ancillary businesses to cannabis are stretching
out to become global businesses.
This brave new world has many of us flying around the world to make these connections
and spread cannabis friendship everywhere we can fly to.
And as we extend a friendly hand to cannabis enthusiasts around the world, we get to learn
their traditions and cultures around this most amazing plant.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, business and technique efficiently and with
good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
We'll send you new podcast episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox, along
with commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week and videos too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published.
Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode.
Also we're giving away very cool prizes to folks who are signed up to receive the newsletter.
This month we're giving away prize packs from Mammoth Microbes, including retail sized
bottles of Mammoth P microbinoculant and a bunch of swag to go along with it.
There's nothing else you need to do to win except receive the newsletter.
So go to shapingfire.com to sign up and be entered into this month's and all future
newsletter prize drawings.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I'm your host, Shango Lose.
Today my guest is Colin Bell, co-founder of Mammoth Microbes and he was kind enough to
bring this month's prize packs with him.
Colin isn't here to talk about their products though.
He's here to talk about the cultural experiences he has had and the kind folks he has met during
the last two years traveling to nearly every continent to set up Mammoth Microbe as a global
business.
On the show today we're going to talk about the different approaches to growing cannabis
in different countries, what it's like trying to evangelize cannabis in countries that still
have prohibition and how no matter where you go in the world, cannabis people become fast
friends even if you don't speak the same language.
Welcome to the show, Colin.
Shango, it's great to be here.
How are you doing, my friend?
Doing fantastic.
So glad that you would be able to spend some time with us.
I know that you are a busy cat and watching your Instagram over the last 18 months, you
seem to be traveling everywhere.
So I'm glad I caught you in your office for once so that we could have this conversation.
And let's start right off at the top about the different areas of the globe that you
have been to make new cannabis friends in the last year and a half.
I know from watching your Instagram that you were really interested in how different
regions of the globe had different, I guess we call them legacy growing styles and it
was different from place to place.
Could you go ahead and tell us a little bit about that, about how the growing is done
differently in different parts?
Yeah, absolutely for sure.
And I want to start by saying I have an awesome job.
I have an awesome company and being the co-founder allows me to get a great team on the ground
and then go engage with the cannabis community on a global scale, not only to outreach the
business but to develop our global network.
One of our cultures and core competencies and core values is developing community.
And we want to do that around the world within this industry and that's what I'm getting
to do.
So it's fascinating.
Saying that, we started our global footprint campaign to get microbes used across the world
in this cannabis industry just a short year ago and we have been successful in traveling
through UK and many different places in Europe and Israel and Australia and countries through
South America and done the education and support and brought our product to these countries
and have gotten great adoption.
So it's been quite the journey and quite the education.
I have such a different perspective on the world as I engage people in the world, in
these different countries, in these different cultures within our cannabis community.
The growing styles, as you mentioned, are vastly different from these different areas.
I'll give the example of our neighbors in South America as an example.
There's some economic constraints to the products and the technologies that are available in
some of those countries and just the styles of growing and the culture of using nature
and using soil and being organic and organically oriented, I will say, has really shaped the
way these growers grow cannabis in South America.
And Uruguay and Colombia are excellent examples where there aren't as many inputs used and
there's more natural additives that are being used.
I actually have one of my partners as an example in Uruguay, Irrigro Juan.
What's up, my man?
He did a study that just blew my mind.
And this is our partner, our distribution partner, one of the great stores, Irrigro,
in Montevideo, Uruguay.
He did a controlled side-by-side using completely organic natural substrates in the same room
as a hydroponic system, same strain, same climate, same light, same everything.
Half the room was hydroponic mineral, half the room was organic completely, and the same
strain of plants looked completely different.
They tasted completely different.
And the mindset through much of South America and the world, for that matter, now is focused
not only on yield but maximizing and enhancing the quality of this plant, meaning the smell
and the flavors that this plant can give off through its terpenes and flavonoids.
So how I like to characterize some of those environments is organic and outdoory or merging
organics into the indoor grows much more so than in Europe and the UK, where it's heavy
mineral, heavy indoor to focusing, especially in the UK, on strictly deodorant-based products
like deepwater culture hydroponics, where organics are not used and they're just now,
the concept of organics is just now starting to emerge because of the acknowledgement of
enhanced plant quality when using organics, and that goes for the microbes also.
And so in South America, we can say very open to organics, nature-type inputs.
In Europe, in UK, and even somewhat in Australia, where we do a lot of business, the use of
microbes is somewhat new.
And it's a process, an education process, and that's what I engage in.
Let's let growers understand how we can bridge natural processes into these conventional
mineral growing practices and still enhance not only yields, but maximize your plant's
phenotypic potential so they can get the quality that the plant is actually bred for.
I think it's really interesting that South America would have such an organic base, and
it kind of provides proof that you can do quality organic plantings without a lot of
expensive inputs simply by using compost teas and local amendments, because the people there
have not traditionally had the economic wherewithal to be able to afford the expensive Western
fertilizers.
And then you compare that to the UK, which obviously is very affluent, and so they moved
towards hydroponics and all these mineral-based bottled nutrients, because it was the thing,
it was the thing that affluent farmers were using.
But now, we're kind of having a reconsideration of bottled nutrients as a cannabis community,
and so folks throughout Europe are starting to look more towards what people will often
describe as simple or organic, but anybody who's ever studied KNF knows that it can get
complex really fast.
I think that's interesting how the level of affluence directly impacts the style of growing.
I think that's a really good way to characterize it, and it's absolutely true.
It's intuitive if it's been told to you, but it was kind of a surprise as I was engaging
in these different areas and these cannabis growers and just learning how they're growing.
And the focus on that too, Shingo, I'll tell you, and the UK is a great example, I'll call
it the quest for quality.
Even a year ago, the idea was growers are basically focused on yield because in the
darker colored markets, so to speak, the black markets, the gray markets, I'm not sure if
I love the term black market, I don't know why, it's a pretty common term, but where
the regulatory pressure is less developed or there's not regulation and people are kind
of working underneath some of the legalities to get this plant in the hands of consumers,
the plant typically has a higher value because there's that extra level of risk.
And people really focus on yield in those particular markets, and historically that's
just been absolutely true.
Throw everything at the plant that you possibly can to get the yield.
Oh, so like lots of PGRs and stuff.
Oh my goodness, yeah.
And that's just recently started to turn around where it was fascinating, this is a good example
too, when I was at Spanibus last year and I'd already engaged with a lot of growers
in the UK by then for the first quarter of the year in 2018, and we're talking about
March 2018 when our team was in Spanibus and I was there also, a lot of UK growers go there
also and many came to me at our booth and they would show me these flowers and they
were very concerned because they were super dense, super rock hard, and they would ask,
man do you think this has PGRs in it?
Didn't have any flavor, the smell was off, and the concern was that it's unhealthy and
it definitely wasn't appealing to smoke.
The harsh health of people who have experienced that where you kind of get the harsh throat.
Yeah, unfortunately I have, I do know what you're talking about.
Yeah, I think everyone's experienced that at least once and the consumers want to get
away from that.
It's not a good experience and this quest for quality not only in terms of better growing
practices but in the genetics has just skyrocketed in that market and in other markets through
Europe because of the influence of the US to a large degree over the last 12 and 24
months.
And so now everyone obviously still wants to maximize the yield in their crop but everyone
also really needs to maximize the quality to distinguish themselves.
And I see that through that quest for quality through Amsterdam, through Spain, through
UK, through Australia.
What I think is fascinating also is different areas have some kind of endemic I'll say genetic
that seems to persist through all the different strains.
Amnesia Hayes is a perfect example when you engage with the shops in Amsterdam.
And Amsterdam was basically the cornerstone of the cannabis industry for a long time in
Europe.
It was very well known.
It was the center of genetics.
It was a center of activity and it's gotten a lot of criticism recently because the diversity
is not there and that's not my words.
It's just the data that I've gathered from hearing a lot of people talk about what they
can get and the genetics are kind of constrained and more so through UK and Amsterdam and Spain
and everywhere else the focus on Colorado and even more so California genetics is dominates
every conversation and it dominates the pricing of flower also.
So in many cases through those different regions if you have California genetics you can get
double the price of your flower that you can from like genetics that were just inherent
from those regions.
Wow that's really interesting.
So wow so many things to talk about.
So the first thing I want to hit on is that it's interesting because Barney's farm genetics
and such are still remain popular here in the US because they're less common and so
those can sometimes get a premium price for European genetics.
But you're also saying that the opposite is also true that we've got such talented breeders
here in the United States that people who have stabilized those strains and then they
find their way to Europe that's getting the premium.
And the other thing I want to hit on that is you said oh you know a lot of this let's
say demand for bag appeal and terpene profile instead of just raw weight raw yield is because
of American influence.
I bet you that to a large degree it's because of Instagram too right.
Because we've all like you know since we were all kids we've all been influenced by
High Times magazines and the centerfolds and stuff.
But clearly High Times magazine does not have the level of influence compared to you know
Instagram breeders as a whole.
Did you find that a lot of people were coming up to you with questions or wanted to show
you things and everybody was going to Instagram profiles back and forth.
Yes and it's a pretty new thing.
You know because of the state of the regulatory environment in these different countries people
are very low key in Holland.
You know that's changed just recently in the UK people have been low key forever and not
very many people until this last 12 and you know within the last two years have really
started to even engage in Instagram.
But since then it's just the platform that everyone goes to to educate themselves on
the different breeders the different strains that are available.
There's actually a lot of exchange that occurs on there.
This is kind of a side note but you know there's a lot of people that are advertising their
flowers on that platform no doubt about it.
Yeah actually watching US Instagram heritage or black market sellers is hysterical because
some people are not even they're not even trying to be subtle about it.
And it's kind of a it's kind of a fun pastime to watch those.
So earlier on you mentioned that you know a lot of the technology and fertilizers were
not available in South America and so they were doing it you know down home organic style
the way they've grown their other food just because they can't afford the fancy mineral
stuff which you know we're kind of turning away from anyway.
But I bet you that also goes in almost all of the countries that you talked about for
analytics right.
So these people are kind of like like the United States was five years ago before we
had cannabis labs all over the place.
And so these people are kind of breeding and growing and purchasing blind because nobody
can really tell you know potency and pesticides and PGRs all these things that that we commonly
test for now.
Those just don't exist everywhere yet.
Yep it's non-existent.
It's not required.
And so there's no cost that's being there's no investment that's being put into those
verticals that's absolutely right.
It's pretty fascinating to think about how much we've evolved.
And you know we talk about you know the genetics coming from the US.
Why do we know about that because we can actually collect the data we have the freedom
to operate to do proper breeding to do proper testing and to answer those questions with
high confidence to for for further selection of breeding generations.
And how do you know what you're breeding if you can't test it.
I don't have the answer to that.
I don't think you do know.
And so it's really not been well informed except for you know the visuals and you can
actually try product afterwards and see how those plants are responding and how well you
like them.
But the level of confidence for breeding and actually creating genetics has gone way down
and and European genetics has been a powerhouse and it just amazed me two years ago when I
was introduced to the European genetics world.
I was blown away and you know you can buy three seeds for forty dollars.
I was like what is going on here.
Talk about the redefining what a money tree looks like just from a genetics perspective.
But that has quickly evolved in the US also.
And so as industries evolve one of the questions I get because you know coming from Colorado
and being in the US and then engaging in all these markets where legalization is happening
and it's happening pretty quickly.
But the US is leading.
So I'm like the guy that's supposed to have this crystal ball that says you know what
does this look like for us two or three or four years or what does this look like for
us after legalization happens.
And actually I can be a resource for these folks in different countries to answer those
questions because there's a pretty high confidence that we know what it looks like as growing
becomes legal as flour and other THC consumable products become regulated.
The economics and supply and demand play into effect and it can affect the whole value chain.
And so it's really fun to kind of shed some light.
And that's another thing that I do often.
That's one of the biggest questions I get.
What does this look like when our country becomes legal.
And so one of those questions also and one of those details is well when regulation happens
so does the testing.
And so it's coming across the board.
So you know when cannabis enthusiasts come to events if there's somebody there that they're
all excited to see you know like a like a major breeder like a mean gene or a celebrity
like a Tommy Chong or a Snoop Dogg or something you know cannabis enthusiasts who are growing
at home they'll bring like you know you know a bag or something of their best stuff to
give to their hero right.
And I would think that for you being a you know a cannabis research scientist and an
American which is you know it's kind of exotic in some of these places and you're going to
these events some of these people are bringing you those bags right.
They want to show you what they grew and got your feedback.
Like what is the range of stuff that you saw.
I mean what were you seeing great stuff and then like you know crappy PGR laden stuff
or or just give us a snapshot of the kind of stuff that people are showing you and actually
probably giving you to.
Yeah so I love my job.
I'm just going to say.
One of the reasons I love my job is because everywhere I go and this is kind of a layered
question people love to share and to show the wares of their of their productivity and
so I do get gifted a lot of flower across the world no matter where I mean forget about
the states in the UK through Spain Australia Latin America and it's very different.
What I will say is that there's a little bias because now we've been a company for about
three years and mammoth our technology mammoth is used in a lot of places and people are
giving me mammoth grown you know.
So it's not it's like it's like hey I used your product to grow this and so there's a
little bit of a bias.
It seems like I'm getting mammoth grown product everywhere and you know I've probably told
you this story before I can't go anywhere for a week much less two weeks without having
a huge like a lunch pail full of different bud from from different growers at the hydro
shops and are the girls that I'm working with and engaging with and so it's a it's a fun
exercise and regionally it's just completely across the board different.
There's a lot of chronic and chronic and red strains through Spain because inherently that
strain is grown in that area.
The amnesia hay stuff is you can taste it in almost everything grown through the Holland
area.
There's some different strains that are just very very well known the cheeses is an example
of the UK and they're starting to get away from that.
There's some other strains that are just kind of inherent for the Australia market.
I've seen probably more organic and probably less potent strains the further south we move
in the Americas towards South America through Columbia as an example where there'll be some
expert growers and proves an example they had their first cannabis cup and as an emerging
market there hasn't been the education and education is key to maximize the grower knowledge
and capabilities to grow high quality strains and so in Peru there's a lot of room for growers
to improve and there's a lot of room to also get better genetics in there.
Columbia is another example where there's not going to be as high quality generally
of flower in Columbia as there would be in Colorado or California.
I'll say to preface it I had my South American team come up for our holiday party and sales
training in December and we just toured through South America just before that November and
first part of December and I took them to some dispensers and to a cultivation facility,
a commercial cultivation facility in Denver and a dispenser here in Fort Collins, Colorado
and it was the best flower they'd ever seen and the best flower they'd ever smoked and
they've been engaged in the industry their whole lives and the range of ages was from
25 to 35 years old, a bunch of young men.
Most of the time they've engaged in the South American markets.
So two more things I want to hit on before we break for our first commercial.
I want to give you an opportunity to tell the bridal story which I'm sure that you're
getting and then after that would you go into the ... we haven't hit on Asia yet and you've
got some interesting stuff to say about Asian growing co-ops.
Yeah, yeah, so for sure.
I guess I'm honored to be again able to engage professionally in what I do which is just
engage with growers, trying to bring them value and what I get everywhere I go is a
lot of hugs and I love that too.
One of the shows we were at in Columbia and met Gene, a young man and I've been talking
to him some on Instagram, et cetera and he has some product and he was a grower and he
was using Mammoth and it was a really charming story where he told me he felt like our product
after he started using it, he felt like his plants were getting married because they got
so frosty that it was like they were putting on a nice white wedding gown.
So it goes to show to the increased quality that he was experiencing with the same strains
he's been growing for a long time just by incorporating our microbial technologies to
enhance nutrient uptake.
And even that example, right, that's such a culturally relevant example.
That's not, that's probably not something that you'd get from an American, right?
If you know in South America where, I don't know, the whole kind of wedding culture is
more integrated, I don't know, differently than here, I think that is a, it's very poetic.
It was very poetic.
It moved me and I like to tell that story.
It's just a really cool thing and the thing is, as you know too, everyone is so passionate
in this industry and if you can help someone, especially in this industry, you've just made
a friend for life.
And all we do is try to create value and provide solutions for cannabis growers.
That's 100% of our focus.
And I love being able to do that and in doing so, we're just creating friends all over the
world.
We love it.
So let's finish up first set.
Break us down a little bit about aging growing co-ops and recipes.
Yeah, so this is something that was new too and as you can imagine, I was first really
exposed to this in the UK and as I moved to Europe and Australia in particular, it's apparent
that there's different cultural groups that move into areas to dominate the black market.
There's Asian groups, there's Russian groups, there's Armenian groups, there's Polish groups
and depending on who has the stronghold, it's kind of an organized situation.
They take chunks of the market to control it and there's Asian-Vietnamese groups that
have done this for years and have been very successful and they've developed and what
I understand is there's main families that kind of control the global Asian growing throughout
the world where they have families in Canada and in UK and in Australia and it's very interesting
and a very hard nut to crack to actually get them to adopt because there's many, many different
grows that one family might control and there's one recipe that they all have to follow.
And so there's a language barrier, they go to a certain amount of stores where there's
a language barrier, they only deal with their own kind and for me to try and get in and
learn more about this growing, it's been pretty intensive but what happens is they follow
the same recipe, they don't ask questions and in order to get on that list has been
quite the challenge and so these main families, especially in Australia, have acknowledged
our efforts in trying to allow, to bring these technologies, our technology to get
better yields and better quality which is typically known as, especially in Australia,
they call it the brown which is like hit with every PGR known to mankind, it's what the
tourists buy and all the locals are like, don't get the brown, don't get the brown mate
and some of these Asian groups have picked up mammoth because it allows them to get away
from that stigma of the brown and to improve the quality of their grows.
And so just the structure of how different groups are growing and where they're organized
and located has been quite the education.
I love the idea of these vertically integrated Asian growing co-ops that have got, loosely
I'll say family but they've got these vertical families set up and if you're part of a family
that's part of this growing vertical, you use the same recipes as everybody else in
the clan and it's kind of like a cultural franchise, you know?
It's like your whole family, you've got all these different locations but you're all doing
it the same way because it's what you've decided works and decreases your growing risk the
most.
And the idea that they've got something like that without formal contracts, it's just the
way it's always done, I find that very culturally interesting.
Yep, and it's actually very important to understand that from a manufacturer standpoint and it
goes down to the very unique detail of even packaging.
They get a blueprint of what the bottle looks like and that's the color bottle they're going
to buy with the color label and the color caps.
And there's been cases when I've known without going into names, a manufacturer that decided
to change the color of their caps, their closures to blue where it was white and they
had to stop, the grower stopped buying it because they were supposed to buy that product
that had the white caps, not the blue caps and you can't get it through to them.
So note to manufacturers out there, packaging matters.
Don't change packaging if you don't have to.
It can cause more problems than bring value.
Good, good argument to take more time developing your packaging at the beginning so you don't
have to make a change at the end of year one.
Exactly, for sure.
Right on.
Cool.
Well, this is all great stuff.
Let's go ahead and take our first short break and be right back.
You're listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is Colin Bell, co-founder of Mammoth
Microbes.
Living soil and regenerative cannabis agriculture are surging in popularity and to implement
these biological solutions, real science education is vital.
If you are interested in all things probiotic growing, you will probably want to attend
the upcoming Science of Organic Regenerative Cannabis Cultivation Conference.
Joshua Rutherford of Dutch Blooms has lined up an incredible array of educators for the
traveling event.
The teaching staff includes Leighton Morrison and Elaine Ingham on soil biology, Chris Trump
talking Korean natural farming, Kevin Jodry on cannabis genetics, Kelly and Josh from
Dragonfly Earth Medicine, Suzanne Wainwright, the bug lady, Dr. Robert Faust on natural
biostimulants, Stephen Reisner on aquaponics, and Chip Osborne on soil testing and even
more folks will be there.
There will be a grower panel, a breeding panel, and a DEM certified farmers panel.
Joshua has even built in significant informal time for you with the teachers as well.
The teaching staff is just as excited to work with you as you are about attending.
And there's no advertising at the event, no vendor booths.
Your tuition is what is paying the staff, so they will all be very present and attentive
to you, not a corporate sponsor.
Even better, the conference is not just for folks on the West Coast.
Humboldt, California is hosting one event for sure, but the show is going on the road
to Vancouver, British Columbia, Portland, Maine, and Ann Arbor, Michigan.
Get out your pen now because I'm about to give you the website.
This is a fabulous opportunity for you to hear from an array of nationally recognized
top shelf soil educators all in one place.
Not only that, this isn't just beginner stuff like you get at most conventions.
This is an intensive for people like us who totally nerd out on the rhizosphere.
The website is regenerativeorganiccannabis.com.
You can also find a link on the Shaping Fire Instagram and newsletter.
Cut through all the misinformation out there and don't miss this opportunity to learn
real soil science.
This message is for folks who grow cannabis.
I'm talking to home growers, patients, and commercial growers too.
I'm probably talking to you.
When you plan out your next growing cycle, be sure to check out Humboldt CSI seeds at
humboldtcsi.com.
Caleb Inspecta and his family have lived in Humboldt County for over 100 years.
For the last 40 years, three generations of his family have cultivated extraordinary Sensamea
cannabis in Humboldt, Mendocino, and Trinity counties.
Because of his lineage and the hard-earned experience that comes from growing up smoking
and sifting large populations of cannabis plants in Northern California, the seeds you'll
cop from CSI will be winning genetics based on long-time heavy hitters and updated and
re-sifted to bring out new and exotic traits and better yields.
Go ahead and ask around.
Caleb, also known as Inspecta and Pirates of the Emerald Triangle, is a breeder's
He reaches way back and works with significant strains, recreating them in new and interesting
ways that you'll love as a toker and a grower, as well as offering you some surprises that
will delight serious seed traders and cultivators.
Humboldt CSI goes a further step and selfs all these chemovars so you know all the seeds
will be female.
These are not experimental feminized seeds.
Humboldt CSI releases some of the best female seeds available anywhere, and it will show
in your garden.
Folks grew quite a bit of CSI Humboldt GenX last year here on Vashon Island, and everyone
was pleased.
The patients had beautiful female plants and didn't have to cull half of their garden
as males.
The folks growing for the fun of getting high grew colorful flowers with exceptional bag
appeal and great highs.
And breeders had 7 out of 7 females in a pack, which gave them a lot of phenotypic choices.
Take a moment right now and visit humboldtcsi.com.
You'll find an up-to-date menu of both feminized and regular lines, along with photos and descriptions.
That's humboldtcsi.com.
Welcome back.
You're listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose, and our guest this week is Colin Bell, co-founder of Mammoth
Microbes.
So, during the first set, we talked a lot about the differences in growing techniques
and culture across Europe and Australia and Latin America and Asia.
Well, a lot of what you have been doing during the last year and a half, Colin, is essentially
evangelizing living soil.
The same changes that have been happening in the US as prohibition starts to recede,
people are able to talk more online, we're being able to visit analytics labs to learn.
People are starting to rely on synthetics less.
Essentially, your job when you went over there was to meet people and create community and
kind of encourage people to use soil more and to stop putting PGRs and chemicals in
their stuff just for their own health.
Can you tell me a little bit about what it's like to encourage people to essentially start
over on a new kind of growing technique?
You told us in the first set that Europe was very much, especially the UK, was very
much into hydroponics and you're like, no, I think maybe you should get rid of everything
that you've done up to this point and start in this new way.
How did people react to your message as a living soil evangelist?
I will start by saying I have a PhD in microbiology and I feel like I've been a living soil evangelist
for my whole life, at least my whole academic career.
This wasn't a very good one until I was able to actually apply some of my academic training
into the market where I could engage farmers more.
Yes, of course, we know and science has well supported that the natural processes that
occur in soil that are facilitated by soil microbes, both bacteria and fungi, do support
plant health, plant development, and plant yield.
No questions asked.
We also know that the interactions between chemistry and cultivation, although we do
deliver nutrients to plants using chemical fertilizers and they're in layoff forms, we
are missing something.
We know that whenever we can incorporate some of the nature back into the rhizosphere or
the plant root zone and nurture those exchanges, those plant microbial exchanges that have
evolved since the beginning of time, the plants respond to it favorably.
I feel like we bring the natural exchange back to them to allow them to maximize their
potential.
I'll also say that I've talked to hundreds and hundreds of farmers in many crops and
farmers don't like to change anything no matter what they're farming.
That is quite a steep hill to climb.
Thinking about that, we have to understand how to bridge the gap of nature or natural
technologies like using microbes, like using living soil into existing management practices
without having to ask the farmer to change everything because that could be a very long
adoption cycle.
When you approach them, what are you finding?
I know I'm about to take your entire global experience from the last two years and bring
it down to one example.
Generally speaking, when you meet these people, are they hungry for the new organic knowledge
where they're all like, explain it to me five ways so that I can understand it in my language
or are they, you are a farming colonist and you're trying to change our ways for no good
reason?
I think that I approach it a little differently and it's practically two.
What I focus on is the value and then you talk about how to get the value.
Every farmer is looking for solutions.
They're all looking to enhance.
If it's food, nutritional quality of the food and yield.
If it's cannabis, it's the quality of the cannabis and the yield.
Everyone wants that and if you can improve that, you have an audience.
The next question is how?
The job of manufacturers like myself and many others to bridge the needs of farmers with
a technology that's readily adoptable.
I think there's a lot of great technologies out there that if it doesn't have that adoption,
that easily adoptable characteristic, it's not going to be successful in the market because
it's just a huge barrier.
As an example, and this is probably the biggest pushback we've had, is in the UK early on
and just so you know, we have awesome adoption with our technology in the UK, which is a
huge testament to how well microbes work across a wide range of management practices, cultivation
practices and cannabis.
We got the best new product of the year in late 2017.
It's an amazing success story.
With the hydroponic growers who use sterile techniques where they pour bleach or they
pour hydrogen peroxide into the reservoirs regularly to kill all the microbe life and
mostly to control pathogens, that's why they do it and that's a huge pain point.
How can I educate those growers who know they're pouring in disinfectants, things that kill
microbes into their growth to use microbes?
Well, educate on ecology and let them know that plants have evolved with microbes and
microbes do benefit plant growth and what we're trying to do is mitigate pathogens,
but we're not trying to kill beneficials.
From an ecological perspective, you can start to educate on ecological niche theory, competition
theory, where if you can flood root zones with beneficial microbes, bacteria and fungi,
it actually in some ways, these microbes act as a bio shield blocking pathogens and blocking
potential infection sites to limit pathogen infection.
That's one angle along with the fact that if you can maximize absorption of nutrients
for plants using these natural microbial solutions, which is synonymous with a living soil, bridging
the gap, starting to acknowledge that at least components of living soil can be applied across
all cultivation practices, you get people thinking and you can get samples in their
hands and they have to see the results.
Every farmer wants to see results with products they adopt, with products they're trying and
if there's a positive result, you have just won over a customer and they're going to buy
your technology because they want those solutions.
Not only that, but they'll tell all of their friends, right?
Because no one keeps quiet when they've just grown their best flowers ever, right?
Everyone tells everybody.
I do.
I want everyone to know.
Shane, that goes even for, let's talk about, we're talking about cannabis, but think about
home tomato growers.
There's a lot of really avid, not to change the subject, avid tomato growers.
I'll tell you what, when I was younger and I used to grow these big tomatoes and they
were delicious and huge, I would go show all my neighbors and be like, look, because you're
kind of racing with all your neighbors to get the first tomatoes and get the best tomatoes
and get the biggest tomatoes.
It's no different with cannabis or any other crop.
People get excited about their achievements and they want to share their achievements.
In this industry, we want to share our success and we should share our success.
That's exactly right.
If you have great results, you want to share.
That's one thing that's very exciting.
We're talking about social media, but in general, if you have something that works, it will
get out there.
As a model, we feel like everyone should try a sample of our technology just as an example
because we feel like you'll have a good result.
If you have a good result, that means we're bringing value to growers and we're going
to be successful as a company.
That's kind of how it works.
I think it's really great how you pointed out that no matter where you traveled, even
if people were looking for new and better growing information, that everyone was proud
of growing cannabis and that they were proud of the cannabis they were growing.
I like that as being a universal, that no matter where we are, no matter what kind of
inputs we can afford, whether or not we have to do it in the basement because of prohibition
or whether or not we can grow outside because there's medical in the country, the idea that
everybody is engaging with the cannabis plant and it's making them feel good, I think that
is a wonderful universal for our cannabis community.
There are way more similarities across the world within our industry than differences.
If I engage any cannabis conference or any group of cannabis growers, I could have the
same exchanges with groups that I meet in Colombia and groups that I meet in Spain or
Australia or the US or the UK or Israel.
We all have the same passion for this plant and for this industry and it's a similarity
that the world within this industry shares for sure.
I'll give you an example that you just kind of hit on.
This is last time I was in Australia.
We were in Perth, which is one of the most isolated cities in the world.
Very, very cool and cannabis is very illegal and we're going and engaging in the hydroponic
grow shops and one of the last ones and one of the very last days, I was there for a 10
day stretch last October and I met a guy who was super cool, older guy, he'd been growing
there forever.
Everyone keeps it on the DL, man.
You have to be very discreet and it's not like you're taking selfies and Instagram pictures
with these people.
You can't do that.
You can't take pictures in these stores because they don't want their faces shown.
It's kind of a risk.
But this gentleman, I started talking to him, talking about the technology.
He got super excited.
Obviously, I gave him some samples and he was like, man, you've got to see what I'm
doing and he lived an hour away.
He was like, can you please wait for me here?
I really want to give you a gift.
You're from the States and you're doing this and I'm really happy and he was just ecstatic.
I'm like, I'll wait for you, of course.
I waited there two hours, hung out, had a great time.
It's fun hanging out at the hydro shops.
I really love those stores and he came back and gave me handfuls of four different strains
of amazing cannabis that he'd been nurturing and growing and breeding for years.
Just a testament, man.
He got two hours basically out of his way to share, to gift, to be kind and I'll never
forget it.
That's really great.
You know, the idea of going back to not being able to show faces on social media around
flowers is like, oh my gosh, what a jump back to seven, eight years ago.
At the same time, I'm thinking of how many people who are listening to the show right
now who are in States in the US that that's still the reality.
I'm very fortunate to live on the West Coast and in Washington and to have been able to
participate in all of this so early.
But thinking about your story in Perth, that could just as well be some of the places here.
To everybody who's listening in a prohibition state, hang in there, folks.
We'll make our way to you soon enough.
Change is coming.
Yeah, change is coming.
One more thing I want to hit on the evangelizing.
How much challenge did you have with language?
The flower itself and the smoking of it kind of transcends language.
You get together.
Everybody knows how a joint works.
If you just pass the joint around a circle and everybody smiles and laughs, some amount
of broken English can work.
I don't know what languages you speak, but what was it like for you to talk to people
in so many different countries with so many different languages?
I think talking and communicating are two different things.
I don't speak Spanish well.
That's one of my goals for 2019.
It was a goal for 2018.
I just traveled so much.
It was in so many different places.
Obviously, it made it hard for me to hunker down and be a good student to learn the language.
I do have great Spanish-speaking partners through Mexico and South America and in Spain.
They help me a lot, no doubt about it.
There's a body language.
What does a hug mean to you?
I don't have to say anything to know exactly what that means.
If you ask me a joint and give me a hug, that happens everywhere.
A smile and the look of, man, this is awesome, and a head shake.
Of course, we communicate.
We do a lot of communication.
I communicate with many people on Instagram and direct messaging and emails to a lesser
degree now.
Thank goodness.
I'm trying to get away from the emails completely one of these days.
That's probably my 2019 goal also.
The WhatsApp is another wonderful tool that everyone around the world uses.
That in itself allows me, if I can't understand every word, even if they're reading, I can
translate it and engage and understand the messages and translate it back and communicate.
I think communication is just the effort you put into it.
I put everything I have into communicating.
It's so important to me.
Right on.
Let's go ahead and take our second short break and be right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
My guest today is Colin Bell, co-founder of Mammoth Microbes.
Growing cannabis in greenhouses is taking over the cannabis industry.
An efficient and effective blend of sunshine-grown terpene profiles and the controlled environment
of indoor, greenhouses can be the best of both worlds.
For many greenhouse operators, though, building their greenhouse before gaining insight into
how cannabis greenhouses differ from ornamental crops can be the start of a world of hurt.
Eric Brandstad and his team at Greenhouse Advisory Group have the experience and technical
know-how to help you avoid these pitfalls.
Eric Brandstad has been helping cannabis growers find locations, design, build, and equip their
greenhouses for over a decade, first starting in Northern California, but expanding over
the last five years to helping clients throughout the world.
He has an impeccable reputation for both depth of knowledge and kindness in communication.
You can hear Eric explain some of the challenges facing cannabis greenhouses and how to overcome
them in episode number 41 of the Shaping Fire podcast.
No matter where I go in the country, good people with smart backgrounds still are making
the mistake of building without knowing cannabis, and it causes them to burn through capital
and time fast.
Everyone has their own failure point.
For some, it is improper ventilation planning.
For others, it is surface temperatures of the building or the plant's leaves or both.
Some folks that build their greenhouse from scratch make really basic errors like placement
of the greenhouse on the property or not understanding the natural environment where the greenhouse
sits.
Some have even built a decent greenhouse but are inefficient in their deployment of light
deprivation techniques and never really hit their target yields.
It's great when you learn from your mistakes, but it's even better when you learn from
the mistakes of others.
When you bring on Greenhouse Advisory Group, you will learn from the mistakes of their
many clients and you'll take advantage of the best practices developed by Eric Branstad
over his years of working with clients just like you.
From location development to choosing a builder and tricking out your new greenhouse or retrofitting
or rescuing your failing greenhouse, Eric will help you through it.
Visit GreenhouseAdvisoryGroup.com to learn more and connect with Eric and his team.
That's Greenhouse Advisory Group.
Now that the health benefits of terpenes have become well known in the cannabis industry,
people everywhere are looking for the purest terpenes without adulterants.
The problem with most terpene providers is that they're not sourced naturally and instead
are made as a byproduct of refining petroleum.
And that's so sketchy.
The terpenes sold by True Terpenes are entirely different.
They are certified organic, non-GMO, and food grade.
That means that they are extracted from real plant sources.
They are no solvents of any kind.
They are distilled only with steam.
That's right, only steam.
In fact, terpenes from True Terpenes are so pure that you can eat them.
Not only that, but you can stack them with better results too.
What I mean is, other companies' terpenes have got a few percent of impurities and when
you stack those terpenes to make your blend, you're adding a variety of impurities that
degrade your final product.
True Terpenes also have strain-specific terpenes for a wide range of cannabis strains like
Durban Poison, Sunset Sherbet, and Granddaddy Purple.
True Terpenes has robust and supportive customer service, so your questions will get answered
fast and efficiently.
If you've shopped for terps before, you know how rare that is.
So whether you want to cup your hands to smell some beta-caryophyllene to calm down after
getting too high, or if you want to dab some pinene so your lungs feel fabulous and your
mind feels liberated, True Terpenes will provide you with a truly natural experience.
If you are a cannabis product developer, these are the terps you want to add to your
oil or edible or capsule or whatever.
True Terpenes are simply the best your money can buy.
Don't try and make a premium product with substandard terps.
Choose True Terpenes for a top-shelf experience.
Go to shapingfire.com forward slash true terpenes to find out more or click on the link in this
week's newsletter.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose, and our guest this week is Colin Bell, co-founder of Mammoth
Microbes.
So before the break, Colin, we were talking about how some people that you met didn't
want to take selfies with you because they are in prohibition countries still and they
can't have their face and name attached to their cannabis enthusiasm.
I'm curious what other things that you experienced around prohibition vibes because a lot of
these countries that you've gone to are still very much early in the transition towards
even medical before even getting to adult use and taboo is in the air and potentially
danger.
So what do you have to share about what it was like to be in prohibition countries?
Yeah.
So it's actually very exciting in some ways.
I'm a scientist that came from the university and now I'm navigating in this cannabis industry,
which is, I would say, regulatory-wise dark grey to black markets throughout the world.
And with that comes a level of risk.
You know, going from country to country, engaging in this industry, you have to be very discreet.
And two, what I think is really important, I keep on using this word, engage, is to talk
to our customers, to talk to growers, to learn more.
I learn and grow and that's what I starve for is education.
To do that, I have to find growers.
And to find growers, sometimes in illegal markets, you have to put yourself in positions
where you are in areas where illegal activity is occurring.
And I'm okay with that.
I think you have to be very discreet.
You have to be mindful of your environment when you're navigating.
Hopefully you know the people you're working with and engaging with.
And I do, more than not.
I've got some great relationships.
An example, within this last year, I was with some friends that I met in this industry that
are great people.
No names, of course.
And they invited me to go to a special session, which is, I didn't really know what to expect.
It was just a gathering is what I knew.
So I was given an address very discreetly and a time to meet.
And when I get there, and I had to take a train for hours from where I was staying in
Newcastle, so it was, just for the record, not in Newcastle.
And I'll leave it at that.
And when I get to this place, I get off a train and get an Uber and it's in this old
industry part of town, late on a weekend night, completely isolated in an old industrial part
And I see a couple of cars and I kind of wander over there and it's dark.
And I am alone.
And you see this guy who looks big and kind of dangerous.
And you make this assumption that this is where the thing is.
And you go up and you're trying to be modest.
I am a little leany too, because I'm a foreigner, from America at least, from the US.
And I text my friend, I'm like, hey, I think I'm here.
So they come down.
And this thing turns out to be this huge event, this exchange, this swap meet.
And there's security.
You go through two levels of security.
You go up to the third floor.
And this is all in an abandoned warehouse in this dark, again, a dark industrial park.
And as soon as you get to the third floor and you open up a couple more doors, there's
400 people in here.
There's music.
There's a coffee bar.
There's a regular bar.
There's some food.
And it's kind of like a craft fair.
You ever been to a craft fair?
Yeah, sure.
There's just a bunch of card tables set up lining the walls halfway around this huge
room.
And it's a bunch of people with their product, either their extracts or their flour.
Some people are selling glass.
So it's kind of like a craft fair or a swap meet for cannabis, all 100% illegal.
And it was a lot of fun.
People were smoking.
People were purchasing.
People were buying and selling and smoking a lot.
And it turned out to be a wonderful time.
But again, you would never know about it unless you're engaged in the industry.
And I felt comfortable because I trusted the people that invited me to this thing.
But I had a couple of other people that I knew that I was working with in the UK that
was like, you know what?
I wouldn't do that, mate.
And so I was like, okay.
I was like, I respected their opinion, but I went ahead and checked it out.
I was really glad I did.
Up until you open that last door and you suddenly see people with cocktails in their hands and
smiling up to that very last point, it all sounded sketchy as hell, right?
And you're like, oh man.
As a matter of fact, it's a good thing to point out that some of the countries that
you were, like, you know, when you told me that you were going to Columbia, I was thinking
to myself, dude, they snatch Americans there.
What are you doing?
Like, like, did you ever feel, I mean, except for maybe when you were walking up to that
warehouse you just told us about, were there times when you felt like you were in bodily
danger trying to hunt out these folks who were doing prohibition in Aragros?
I think that in some areas or some countries it's pretty close by.
You know, I'm always with people that are typically always with people that are from
those particular regions or cities like in Medellin.
And you have a second set of eyes and a good intuition of people that are on the ground
that know, you know, if there's a bad neighborhood or a good neighborhood.
This is a pretty fun example, not to name names, but one of my, one of our teammates
a year ago got in a cab and he was looking for some flour.
We didn't know anyone in Medellin at that time.
And this young man is from Mexico and he's pretty, and he's from Mexico City.
So he's used to very rough areas.
And this cabbie took him to this other area.
They stopped.
And in my teammate, he was like, man, Colin, it was like, like, I wouldn't welcome to come
because my complexion was too light and this young man, although he was from Mexico, he
was ordered to stay in the cab and only the cab driver could go in to exchange because
it was that dangerous.
And so it's, it can be sketchy, but I've never, ever felt like in danger at all, quite frankly,
because I'm around the right people and there's bad areas and dangerous areas and safe areas
in every city.
Fair enough.
It happens, but it's, if you, if you take care of where you're going, it's really not
an issue.
It also says a lot about, you know, if any of us were to go to these places and, and
try to hunt up these beautiful markets, you're describing that, that, that having a trusted
local is the name of the game.
You have to do that no matter what, in every country, you're not going to go to Australia
or UK, even if you engage and speak the language and necessarily find the people that you want
to trade with.
You, you should have people that know the area and, and know people so you can get,
so you can get connected with, with the good guys, so to speak.
So, so this, this question may be a non-starter, but it's kind of a shot in the dark.
So, and, and maybe I'm being too informed by Hollywood, that's possible too.
But I was curious if you came across like nutrient cartels, right?
Because in these different countries that you're going to, they've been doing things
the same way for a long time, generally, and whatever nutrients are being input into, you
know, the hydroponics or whatever, somebody is selling that stuff to them.
And then, and then you come in and you're talking to people about at the very least
a new product, which probably actually doesn't compete with a lot of the stuff they're using
because it's so unique.
But more so, you're starting to teach people living soil, which is a whole different system,
which will upset the apple cart on how some of these people have been making money.
Did you experience any like, you know, like cannabis nutrient bad guys, you know, who
are, who, who did not appreciate your presence?
No, but I do agree that there's that potential.
And honestly, with the category we're in, and we're in the additive category, it's
a little agnostic to the nutrient inputs, but there are some clicks, I'll call them
clicks that are very strongly opinionated on their position in the marketplace.
And they control that and protect that as much as they possibly can.
And so if I was moving in to the UK with another nutrient line or to Australia with another
nutrient line, I don't think that I would be successful.
Just a lot of history and a lot of products are already there.
And a lot of groups have already taken up a lot of the market share where we're coming
in with kind of a new category.
We're coming in with life in a bottle that's going to enhance everything you're putting
in to maximize nutrient uptake.
And the synergies there alleviate a lot of that for us.
Right on.
That's interesting.
So this next question, it's kind of a different flavor than the rest of the questions that
I've asked you.
When we had Colm Riley on the show, we talked a lot about the bioregionalism of microbes
and how if you're going to make nutrient compost teas, it's really great to use local compost
that hasn't been shipped across the country so that you are breeding more microbes that
are local to you and will do well in your soil and your weather and all this kind of
stuff, right?
And I use mammoth pea in my summertime grow and that's got a particular microbe mix in
it.
Yeah.
So I am curious.
I guess it's a two-part question.
Number one, did you find that people had any fidelity to the idea that they've got local
microbes?
And then the second part of the question is, are the microbes that are in your product
appropriate for all these different bioregions?
That's two really good questions and I could kind of spend a lot of time on that, but I
will abbreviate and I'll say that I think overall there's a lot of ubiquity where you'll
find the same microbial groups everywhere.
And so microbes, bacteria, and fungi can adapt to different environments.
And I want to say that the environment selects.
Why there are so much diversity in any one particular soil is because as winter and summer
seasons fluctuate and change over time, they're going to select for microbial resilience of
some microbial groups and other microbial groups are going to really be stressed by
that change in weather, for example.
And so you want to maintain that function and the resilience helps that.
Introducing microbes in from a local source definitely helps bridge the confidence that
if you're introducing them to the same climatic or environmental conditions, you should have
confidence that they're going to persist.
What I will say is microbes in nature and microbes even in a cloth pot are not the same
environment at the microscopic scale.
It's very different.
What we want to do is make sure we nurture microbes that are very highly functional and
very persistent.
And so I'll say as the environment selects is a great example, and this is reflecting
on my experiences in manufacturing or the R&D for manufacturing our technology.
We started off with soils from across the world because we wanted to nurture the biodiversity
and the functional diversity of as many microbes as possible.
What we did is we put them through a functional trait selection platform and an environmental
trait selection platform to maximize the functional aptitude of any kind of final product, but
also to weed out microbes that couldn't persist in environmental stressful conditions that
were characteristic of farming practices or the management practices that growers use
in hydroponics and cannabis cultivation.
And we started off with over 10,000 microbial species.
And after we imposed them through our selection platform after many generations, we ended
up with four microbes, which suggests that most microbes are effective and appropriate
for farming practices.
And we have to select the right microbes for our cultivation practices.
And that's where we can get confidence with biotech companies looking to solve solutions
or looking to develop solutions, microbial solutions for cultivation can help growers
use microbes with confidence and precision in their precision agriculture practices.
Right on.
So, Colin, thank you so much for being a guest on this very different kind of show, right?
I mean, every time I've talked with you before, we jump right into soil science, and that's
a happy place for both of us, I know.
When you started telling me about these cultural experiences and these people that you were
meeting, I knew I wanted to hear more about these stories, and I figured that the Shaping
Fire audience would appreciate it too.
So I appreciate you sharing a different side of yourself with us so that we could all be
a little more aware of this global village of cannabis enthusiasts we have, brother.
Awesome, man.
I really appreciate it.
As always, I'm looking forward to seeing you next.
Let's keep growing, buddy.
Right on, brother.
Thank you very much.
If you want to follow up with Colin or find out more about the Mammoth Pea product, you
can go to their website at mammothmicrobes.com.
And if you enjoy Instagram like the rest of us do, you can go to the mammothmicrobes Instagram,
creatively enough, at mammothmicrobes.
And if you want to follow Colin's travels specifically or to reach out to him, the best
way to do that is via his Instagram, which is Colin W. Bell.
So that's C-O-L-I-N-W-B-E-L-L.
And that's also on Instagram.
And if you caught that earlier during the interview, he prefers Instagram messages to
email.
So we're not even going to bother giving you an email address.
Just reach out to him via that.
You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the show at
shapingfire.com and on Apple iTunes, Stitcher, and Google Play.
If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it if you'd leave a positive review of the
podcast wherever you download.
Your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too.
On the Shaping Fire website, you can also subscribe to the weekly newsletter for insights
into the latest cannabis news and product reviews.
On the Shaping Fire website, you will also find transcripts of today's podcast as well.
For more information on me and where I'll be speaking, you can check out shangolose.com.
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire.
I've been your host, Shango Lose.
