I love natural farming, and if you're here, I bet you do too.
Just about all of my life is purchased.
I start my day with purchased toothpaste, shave cream, and razor.
I work on a computer I bought, on an internet I subscribe to, and listen to music I pay
a monthly fee to have access to.
My lunch was bought, mostly, at the grocery, and I put my dishes in a dishwasher with soap
someone else made.
My car, my home, this microphone I'm talking into, nearly everything in my life is paid
for, even the organic and holistic stuff.
But my relationship with the plants is different.
I actually spend very little on cultivation, and yet my plants are thriving.
The longer I cultivate, and the more I learn, the easier it is to grow, the less money I
spend, and the less pest pressure and problems I have.
For me, the beauty of natural farming is the more I slow down and learn about soil
life and natural systems, the more I am rewarded with good cannabis and good food for nearly
no money.
Because of natural farming, my relationship with my plants is the healthiest relationship
in my life.
And maybe for you too.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, business, and technique efficiently and with
good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
We'll send you new podcast episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox, along
with commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week and videos too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published.
Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode.
Also, we're giving away very cool prizes to folks who are signed up to receive the
newsletter.
There's nothing else you need to do to win except receive that newsletter, so go to shapingfire.com
to sign up for the newsletter and be entered into this month's and all future newsletter
prize drawings.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I'm your host, Shango Lose.
Today my guest is Joey Berger.
Joey is a universally respected permacultural and natural farming educator and consultant
in Humboldt, California.
This is an epic resume.
Check this out.
Joey was certified in permaculture design in 1998 and was certified to teach permaculture
in 2017.
He started working in the cannabis industry at age 12 and grew his first solo garden at
age 14.
In 1996, Joey founded the seminal cannabis supply store Trim Scene Solutions, the Emerald
Triangle's source for harvesting, processing, and extraction equipment in 2009.
And honestly, that undersells Joey's importance in the California medical and export markets.
Joey essentially provided the supplies to the heart of the West Coast cannabis producers
exporting to the East.
Joey founded and served as president of the Humboldt Growers Association in 2010, Humboldt's
first medical cannabis growers association.
He was also a founding board member of the Emerald Growers Association in 2011, which
then went on to become the CGA, the California Growers Association.
Joey Berger licensed his Mendocino farm, the Mendo Hideout, in 2011 under Mendo's 931
program to grow legal medical cannabis.
That same farm was raided just three years later in 2014 after ordinance was repealed
from 99 plants back down to 25.
He founded the Casual Crop Exchange, Humboldt's longest running medical cannabis farmer's
market in 2016.
And when that was shut down, he founded the Casual Sundays Education Series to share regenerative
practices with the local community.
In 2017, Joey Berger received the highly respected Dragonfly Earth Medicine Pure certification
for his farm in Mendocino, and he now inspects and certifies farms for dragonfly in the southern
Humboldt area.
Joey Berger is presently permaculture educator at Heartwood Mountain Sanctuary and a judge
for Emerald Cup.
During the first set, we chat a bit about assessing your property and common regenerative
improvements Joey sees on cannabis farms.
During the second set, we focus solely on producing cultivation nutrients from wild
plants already growing on your farm.
And the third set is all about using plants already on your farm for natural pesticides
and pest discouragements.
Welcome to the show, Joey.
Thanks for having me on, Shango.
So great to have you here.
So let's jump right into it.
You know, I know a lot of what you do and where you pretty much start all of our conversations
is assessing the property that we're talking about, right?
Because you know, your craft and like all of our craft is growing plants.
It's very specific to the particular bio region that we live in.
And then, you know, the specific, you know, plants and waterways and, you know, bio region
of our actual parcel.
So what I'd like you to do is let's start by going through the kinds of things that
you look at when you first arrive at a property.
Like help us see through your eyes, the factors that are present on a property so that, you
know, everybody who's listening can use those same eyes, either looking at their property
that they own, or in the case of people who live in more of a suburban area, how they
can look at like, you know, their local parks and such for where they might be wild crafting.
Help us have your eyes.
Sure.
Well, usually this starts with a phone call long before I come out to anyone's farm.
Someone contacts me, wants to have me, you know, look at their property, do some permaculture
design work or just look at it through, you know, through my years of cannabis and permaculture.
So over that phone call, we usually talk about, you know, who are you?
What is your context?
What is your project?
Is this a recreational cannabis farm?
Is this a traditional market cannabis farm?
Is this a business?
What is it that you're actually looking for?
You're going to hear me talk about context a lot today.
What is it that you want your lifestyle to be like?
You know, are you a workaholic?
Are you looking for a place where you can just raise your family and grow food?
A lot of times we'll talk on the phone way beforehand coming out to the farm.
You know, what are the natural resources you have around there?
And I like to just get a little bit of a picture before I ever set foot on the ground.
I like to look at maps, send me some topos, send me some aerial photos, send me your site
plans from your licensing so that when I go out and finally get some boots on the ground,
I have a good idea.
You know, what neighborhood are you in?
I might know some of your neighbors.
I might know just from the area that you're in, what are some of the natural resources there?
If you're out near the coast in honeydew or petrolea, I'm here in southern Humboldt County.
I know you're going to have horsetail on your property.
I know that this time of year you're going to have bracken fern.
I already have an idea based on, you know, where you're at, what your exposure is.
Are you North Face?
Are you South Face?
What kind of conditions I can expect to see once I get out there?
And so once we get onto that property, believe me, I'm looking for plants on the drive out there.
I'm looking for, you know, history of fires that have come through the area.
Where are we?
Are we down in a valley?
Are we up high?
Am I seeing, you know, what are the soils looking like as I'm driving out to your property?
Get an idea.
Are we down in Lake County and there's serpentine rock?
Or are we up in northern Humboldt where there's redwood trees?
So we get onto the property, meet with the clients, and some of the first things we like
to identify are these different sectors.
Where is your exposure?
Are we on a South Facing property that gets a lot of sun, gets really good Southern and
Western exposure?
Are we on a North Facing property that gets very little light?
What's our elevation?
Where is the water on this property?
Where are the fire threats coming from on this property?
Most of Humboldt County is very mountainous and fire tends to travel up hills.
So it's usually pretty easy to identify where are the fire threats going to come from on
a property.
You know, if you're in your house, where's that fire?
What direction is that fire going to be coming from?
Where are the ingresses and egresses from that property?
And will you be able to exit it if there is a fire coming your way?
Some of these other sectors are the wind sectors.
You know, where are your winds blowing in from?
You know, winds can be very damaging to soils and to plants.
They really dry out soils.
They make it a lot harder for your plant to just be healthy and do its natural processes.
So identifying these sectors, we use a lot of, we use some skills in permaculture called
zoning.
These are some principles that we use where we can lay a farm out or a property out in
zones, zones one through five, with zone ones being the zones that you visit the most every
day.
These are going to be the areas right outside your front door where you're going to want
your little veggie garden for the house and your little bit of herbs and your chicken
coop.
And zone five is going to be the very far reaches of your property.
It might be a woodlot or it might be an area that you go just to gather, you know, gather
some leaf mold out of the forest a few times a year.
So we'll look at a property and we'll look at, you know, what are the, what does your
day to day look like?
You don't want to put your garden that you're going to be visiting every day on the far
end of your farm.
You want to put that close to the house.
So we use some of these permaculture design principles and they really help with that
process and really just identifying those sectors.
Where are the threats?
Where are the assets?
How do we capture the energy that's hitting your farm and cycle it as many times before
it leaves your farm?
That energy could be the sunshine hitting it, meaning we want to have as many levels
of plants.
We want to have tall trees that are capturing that sun at a tall height.
We want to have medium sized plants and ground covers that were capturing that sunshine at
every height before it leaves the property.
We want to capture it with solar panels.
We want to capture it with passive solar design on our homes so it can heat them during the
winter.
We want to capture the rainwater as it's falling and hitting the ground.
That's energy.
We want to cycle that through our property as many times before it leaves.
We want to run it through swales that are going to spread the water out and sink it
into the ground and our hugel beds are going to capture it and hold that water like banks.
And those plants, you know, we want to cycle that water through as many plants before it
leaves our farm.
That's energy.
And the minute it leaves your farm, it's gone.
So how do we identify all that energy that's hitting your property and make the most use
of it?
One of the big things we say in permaculture is, what's the biggest change we can make
for the smallest effort?
So we really go out to these farms.
We try to identify, you know, what are some of the few biggest issues you're dealing with?
And we might be able to, you know, if we can just fix those couple little things, that
could have a huge impact on your life or on the health of your farm or on the quality
of your product.
And oftentimes out here, those little things, they're big things, they're little things,
but oftentimes it's powdery mildew or it's certain types of pests.
Big aphid issue the last few years.
Leafhoppers was a big issue I saw the last couple of years.
So yeah, we just, you know, it's really about the farmer's context.
What are we walking into?
What are your goals that you're trying to accomplish?
And how can we use these design principles and your available resources to meet those?
Let's get into the farmer's head for a second.
So I can see how, and actually I got to admit, I'm kind of surprised at how systemic the
approach is, right?
I can almost feel the permaculture design course that these ideas are from because,
you know, so often when people come to the property, they're focused more on how the
property feels to them, right?
And the energetics of the property.
And obviously that is important, but to listen to you break it down into like the types of
zones, I'm imagining more like overlaid, you know, different types of maps of what's happening
at different levels of the property and how you can improve each one of those different
categories.
So getting into the farmer's head for a moment, when you go to these properties, what are
like, let's just pick three.
What are three of the common, let's say either misconceptions or things that farmers miss
that can be most beneficial to them that you see that are very common?
Because if they're common to you, chances are a lot of folks that are listening will
get value from them as well.
Well, yeah, let's start with winter time.
We see people making these huge burn piles and just burning everything, burning their
stocks, burning their plant waste, burning their tree trimmings.
We're, you know, we're in fire country here.
We had the largest fire in California history, about four miles from my house last year.
We're in a major drought right now.
We're going to have an even worse fire year this year.
So we all need to be doing fire prevention work over the winter, creating these defensible
spaces, they call them, clearing out around our buildings, clearing on the downhill sides
of all our buildings, all our entrances and exits to the property.
And so it's great.
We want people clearing these fire ladders.
These are the lower dead branches on trees, clearing out the dry material.
But when we just burn those, those are valuable resources.
Those are resources on your property.
When we burn them, we're releasing CO2 into the atmosphere.
It's adding to the hole in the ozone layer.
There are many things that we could do with our cannabis stocks, with our ganja waste,
with our tree thinnings, with these small furs that we tend to thin out here in our
oak woodlands.
When we stockpile and process these wastes, we turn them into resources.
So let's talk about your cannabis waste.
Let's talk about your ganja stocks.
Those can be chipped.
Those can be returned to your soil.
They can be composted.
They can be used as mulch.
Dry leaf as well can be just mulched compost right back into the garden, fed to your worms,
put into a hugelkultur bed.
Those are valuable materials.
I don't ever want to see anybody burn in their ganja stocks again.
That one breaks my heart.
Yeah, it's fun.
We all love sitting around the campfire in the winter.
It's great.
But let's not burn our cannabis waste.
Those are nutrients that we took from the soil, from our soil.
We need to return them to the soil.
Every time we harvest something and we remove it from our property, that's fertility we
just removed.
So we got to start thinking about how do we return that back to the soil.
As far as our forest thinnings, a lot of those young furs can be processed and used as poles.
We can use those as junk pole fencing.
It's very simple wooden fences that we can build out of those four to eight inch diameter
straight poles, dug fur poles.
Your thinnings out of the woods can be chipped, used to build soil, used in your compost,
used as mulch.
I also want to talk about rameal wood chip.
These are the branches from the smaller deciduous trees.
You want to harvest these in the wintertime and in the springtime.
These are the trees, your deciduous trees that lose their leaves in the wintertime.
These are your fruit trees.
These are your oaks.
These are your madrones and your maples.
These are some of the deciduous trees around our parts.
You want to use the branches that are under three inches in diameter, the smaller thinner
branches that have some bend to them.
These are high in lignin.
Lignin is what makes branches flexible.
When these branches get older, they get high in tannins.
Tannins are what's in hardwood, makes the wood hard, makes it hard to bend.
So when you chip these smaller rameal wood, these smaller branches, we use our fruit tree
thinnings and we use these smaller branches.
When you make a wood chip from this rameal wood, it's a very low carbon to nitrogen ratio
wood chip.
And that means it's going to break down quickly.
Your normal hardwood wood chip, high in tannins, takes a long time to break down.
You bury it, it's going to take a couple of years.
This rameal wood chip, because it's smaller pieces, it's high in the lignin, microbes
love to break this stuff down.
You want to use this as essentially a top dressing.
You want to use it as a mulch.
And if you can, mix it into the top one inch layer of your soil.
And when it gets some contact with the soil, the microbes move into it, start breaking
it down.
It's not going to absorb and lock up a bunch of nitrogen like your normal wood chip if
you were to mulch with it.
So rameal wood chip is something we should all be making all winter long, building fertility.
Another good use for that wood waste is biochar.
We should all be making biochar all winter long.
And using all these wood resources.
So yeah, Big Pet Piva Mine is seeing people burning their fertility, burning their wood
resources.
Let's please put an end to that.
Right on.
What's another one?
Another big one I see, we've got snakes out here and we have fires.
So we all do a lot of weed whipping out here.
The grass grows up real tall in the spring, it's beautiful and green, and then it dies
and you're left with this waist high grass that is a real fire threat.
And it really hides a lot of the snakes.
We got rattlesnakes around here.
I had a client last month whose father got bit last year by a rattlesnake.
So it does happen.
But I'm going to put in a little plea here to not weed whip down to the ground all around
your garden.
I'm going to talk to you right now about something we call beetle banks.
And beetles are some of the unsung heroes of your garden.
Beetles go in and they break down manures.
They're incredible decomposers.
So they go in and they break down your soil, they break down the compost and break down
the manures.
And where they like to hang out is in the tall grass.
They go in there and hide in the tall shady grass during the daytime to hide from birds
and to hide from other predators.
And when we weed whip down to the bare soil all around our gardens and we don't leave
one little patch of grass standing, we have just taken out a lot of habitat.
And so we have to find a balance between making our properties fire safe and getting that
dead grass down where it's important and leaving as much of these undisturbed areas as possible.
So I'm doing a lot of this in my garden this year is leaving big strips unweed whipped
right now.
And that means just native grasses and bunch grasses that are three, four feet tall.
And they're a shady habitat for these bugs and snakes and all kinds of insects to hide
out during the day, during the hot part of the day when they're easy prey.
And you want to have a diverse garden.
Diversity is strength.
Diversity is health.
When you go into your garden, you should see every bug, every insect.
That means an aphid and a spider mite.
That means it's a healthy balanced system.
That means there's predators there keeping them in check.
If I walk into a farm and I don't see any bugs, I get worried.
I know people have been spraying or there's just not enough diversity there.
There's nothing there that anybody wants to live on.
And that's going to lead to pest pressures and pathogen pressures.
You know, when people weed whip their entire property, it sometimes reminds me and is kind
of akin to lawns, right?
I understand why people have gotten more aggressive about weed whipping their properties
simply because they don't want their properties to burn, right?
People are like, okay, I want to have there be less fuel around my house.
And by all means, around your house, you want to make sure that you've got things cleared.
But it doesn't mean that you necessarily need to clear every square foot of your entire
parcel.
There are gradations here and I think that it's important to understand that it's not
all or nothing.
Yeah, and you don't need a lot of these.
I'm not saying leave the whole hillside untouched.
I'm saying leave a four foot wide by 20 foot long strip of native grass in the middle of
your garden or on the edge of your garden or on the uphill side where it's not going
to be a fire threat.
And I see you're saying more like make islands.
Make islands.
These beetles will travel 100 feet in every direction.
So make these islands around your garden and put a water source there.
Put a little pond there.
If you've got drip emitters, put a saucer under a few of those throughout your garden.
You're going to get a lot more wildlife.
You're going to get a lot more snakes that are going to be eating your rodents.
A lot of times when we get rodent damage here, they're looking for water.
They're chewing the base of your stems and extracting moisture.
And I find that when I leave out more water around my garden, they leave my cash crops
alone.
So what's another thing that you see commonly for this third one?
What's something common that you see that is kind of a universal thing that folks do
wrong?
Well, a lot of the pest pressures we get are just because of, let's talk poor airflow and
monocropping.
And unfortunately, we've got an issue here in Humboldt County for the licensed growers
where they charge them for their square footage of their pathways in between their cultivation
areas.
So it really encourages the farmers to pack everything in as densely as possible.
And it leads to a lack of airflow and increase in pest and fungus pressures.
And I'm specifically talking about powdery mildew has just gotten worse and worse and
worse here.
And yeah, when you don't have good airflow and you're not taking the time to go in and
clean out the insides of your plants and the bottoms of your plants and certain strains,
you've really got to clean them out because they're just too leafy.
Yeah, powdery mildew and a lot of that just has to do with a lot of times people are in
poor greenhouses without adequate airflow.
Just being in the correct structure or being in the correct outdoors.
You know, people just kind of stack the deck against themselves when you go into a greenhouse
that doesn't have adequate airflow and you've got a monocrop in there and you've got a strain
that isn't used to these conditions and you're growing it near the coast.
I mean, you're just creating a perfect storm for pathogens to move right in and just run
rampant all over your crop.
So to the best of your ability, spread out your plants just across the entire property,
whether they're your ornamentals or they're your cash crop or whether or not it's your
food garden.
Don't be shy about maximizing your space by spreading out.
Give everybody a room to breathe.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
Let's segue a little bit over to water.
We talked a lot about the path of water and the importance of capturing and sequestering
water several episodes back when we talked with Nicholas from Green Source Gardens.
We talked with him a lot about what to do in the off season to prepare your property
for the following summer.
One of the interesting things that you just said to me was you're like, okay, obviously
we need to sequester as much water as we can on our property as it flows through the property.
But then I forget exactly the word you used, but you suggested that you want to cycle it
back around.
I really thought that water essentially travels one direction through the property, usually
uphill, downhill, and you want to try to grab and cause as much of that water to sit down
as possible along its one-way path.
However you built your sentence, it kind of suggested to me that you're seeing some way
to circle the water back onto your property a second time.
And so I'm just kind of fishing here.
What are these techniques that you might be talking about where we can not only just capture
the water as it goes by, but maybe bring it back?
Well, certainly it's more about capturing it and using it as many times as we can before
it would leave the property or go somewhere like underground, or we can't use it as easily.
You know, in permaculture, one of the principles is design from patterns to details.
And permaculture's whole philosophy is around the philosophy that nature knows best, and
that when we mimic these patterns that we see in nature, we can build resilient systems
that are going to stand the test of time and function without our input.
So water flows downhill.
We know this.
This is a big pattern in nature.
This is why you don't want to put your water storage at the bottom of your hill.
You want the water storage at the top of your hill.
This is why you want all your water catchment at the top of the hill.
So things like swales, things like hoogles.
You know, a swale is essentially a long ditch on contour.
It runs level across the landscape, perfectly level.
Water is going to hit that in the rainy season, hit your hill, or just come flowing off a
road.
It's going to flow into that swale, which is essentially just a ditch, and get slowed
down.
If it doesn't hit that swale, it's just coursing down your property, probably going into a
ditch, probably picking up speed, taking a lot of topsoil with it, and pushing it right
down into your creek as quick as it can.
So what we want to do is capture that water and slow it down so that it's going to sink
into our water table and recharge our stores for our wells, our groundwater stores.
So it hits that water, it spreads out, and then we want to have overflows at the ends
of those so that it's going to overflow and run downhill into the next swale system, or
into the next set of hoogle beds that are on contour.
And by doing this, we can really slow this water down and we can capture it as many times
before it leaves the property.
We want to have diverse plantings on all those swales.
And ideally, we want to stack functions and get as many uses out of each one of these
swales or plantings as possible.
So ideally, when we went out there, we identified, here's a sector that we want to generate some
privacy.
The neighbors drive by, it's a dirt road, it's a lot of dust, they can see my greenhouse,
I need some privacy.
We're going to build that swale so it catches the water coming off of that road, and we're
going to plant our privacy fence along there and our shade fence, and maybe that's also
heavy winds coming through there.
We're going to do an intense planting that's going to break up the wind.
We're going to try to stack as many functions as we can into that one planting.
And we're not going to just use trees that are just going to be blocking the wind and
the dust, we're going to also do fruit trees so we can get another yield.
We can stack another function out of these elements.
And we're not just going to grow a fruit tree, we're going to grow a vine growing up that
fruit tree.
That fruit tree is also serving purpose as a trellis.
So every element that we place, we want to try to stack as many functions as possible
because this is, once again, mimicking nature.
This isn't something I came up with, this is what happens when you go and walk in the
forest, you see trees with vines growing up them.
You don't see a trellis in the forest.
How many times can we capture that water and cycle it, cycle it, cycle it before it just
sinks down into our groundwater systems?
Right on.
So I know that with your expertise in permaculture design, we could actually do an entire show
easily on how to design a property before you buy it or when you buy it.
But that's not the nature of the show today.
Today we're going to be talking more during the second and the third sets about wildcrafting
and discouraging pests with your local plants.
But the important thing for me for this first section was to pull from you, like I was saying
earlier, your eyes and how you're seeing the property and pull out some general things
that just about everybody can use.
And I would think that there's a lot of folks like me who are hearing these permaculture
ideas and going, damn, I wish I would have known this before I set up everything I already
have set up.
And because it's so much easier to design and build a parcel before you've moved all
your crap onto it.
And so before we go to commercial, I'd like to have you speak to this idea of, I don't
know, either the challenges or even the hopelessness that a farmer may have with, gosh, I've already
moved on to my property.
I think it should be designed in an entirely different way now that they've done some permaculture
education and research.
And gosh, they feel frustrated because they have to plant with the property that they
have today.
And it's not at all how they would have designed it.
So when you're talking with farmers who are feeling challenged with where they're at today
versus where they want to go, what kind of stuff do you say to them to give them heart?
Yeah, well, certainly the last few years around here have been really disheartening for people
as they've transitioned into the recreational market.
It's just taken such a financial and emotional toll, not just on the farmers, but on the
whole community.
And so these farmers having their farm and their homestead was a dream come true for
a lot of these guys.
A lot of them worked for decades to get this and build this.
And these last couple of years of regulation have just taken the wind out of their sails.
It's become a job and a burden, and it's scary, and it's a lot more work than it used to be.
So to get to come out to folks' property and teach them a few new skills and a few new
ways to look at their property differently and look at their plants and recognize that
there are all these resources readily available to them.
And once you get somebody a little more excited about their property and the light returns
to their eyes, the little sparkle comes back, and they start realizing, oh my God, I'm spending
all this money on this fertilizer and all this money on this pesticide.
And learning a few of these techniques could really put some dollars back in the pocket
and it just gets people looking at their property with a whole new set of eyes and a whole new
enthusiasm and it's been really fulfilling.
And I'm really just happy to see people in the Emerald Triangle embracing regenerative
practices knowing that this needs to be part of our brand.
We've always been known for the best cannabis in the world.
Well now we can prove that we're using the cleanest and most respectful to the planet
cultivation practices possible.
So I feel like people in this community's product, as much as it's always been on the
top shelf, are really going above and beyond in developing these regenerative practices.
And I'm just really happy to see this renaissance that we're witnessing right now.
Let's dig a little, let's dig one more question into the psychological part, right?
Because for a lot of folks, you're right.
Cultivation has been a drag for most of us.
And for many of us, it's family tradition and the heritage behind it, the cultural connections
we're losing as well.
And also there is the idea that, okay, we are getting more regenerative minded.
We are learning these new techniques.
We are learning ways that we can use local plants and save money on inputs.
And oh my gosh, it takes a lot of work to do that from where I'm at today.
And I'm assuming that you've got some kind of prepared philosophy to tell farmers about
some version of baby steps and small things.
Start with small things, but what do you do when they feel overwhelmed?
Because you're right.
There is something about regenerative that is becoming stronger in the market that people
want to buy it.
But that doesn't really get people over the fact that, yeah, if I do all of this other
new work to make my farm more regenerative, I can save more money and it's a marketing
advantage, but it's also more work.
And I'm sure that there are others like me who feel frustrated about, well, I already
have to take care of the garden and the property as it is.
And I want to make all these changes.
And I could do that as a full-time job for the next year.
How do you encourage balance and to take these additional steps for farmers who, like we've
already established, are feeling pretty beat up right now?
Yeah, absolutely.
Well, I absolutely discourage people from trying to bite off more than they can chew.
Compliance alone on a farm is a full-time job for a lot of these folks.
Farming was their full-time job, and now they have to be the lawyer and the consultant
and the water expert.
So I go onto these licensed farms and I teach people these practices.
And I tell them, let's start small this year.
Let's talk about converting 10% or 15% of your farm.
Let's build one hoogle and dump out one row of these smart pots.
Because yeah, building a hoogle is a lot more work than getting a smart pot and filling
it up with soil.
It just is.
But it's also, you're going to build this thing one time, and you're building fertility
that's going to, if we build it correctly, that could last the next 20 to 50 years.
Your grandkids could be pulling potatoes out of that same bed.
And that ain't going to happen with your smart pot.
So I just encourage people, take it slow, because it's hard to teach an old dog new
tricks.
We all did this up here for 30 years and had really good success.
But scaling up, going from a quarter acre to an acre, or going from a half acre to two
or three like a lot of people here have done, has been a difficult process.
All the problems we had before, we have them on a much larger scale now.
And so I just encourage people, let's start small.
I want them to prove it to themselves that it works.
But I also want them to actually follow the protocols.
There are some traditional ways to make these.
There are some protocols to follow that will give you a better chance of success.
I don't want to see people half-assing it, and then they say, oh, it didn't work, and
I'm going to go back to the old ways.
It does take some effort.
It's not as easy as just throwing some plant in a bucket with some water, as everybody
thinks.
It almost is, but there's a couple more important things.
So I hope people will learn some of the basics of some of these different modalities before
they just go all Wild West and do something bad for their property, or just waste a lot
of time and effort and go back to the old ways.
Yeah, the wasting of the time seems to be the hardest resource to preserve.
So all right, cool.
Thank you, Joey.
So when we come back after the commercial break, we're going to talk specifically about
wildcrafting nutritive plants for your property so that you can save money on your inputs.
You are listening to Shaping Fire, and my guest today is regenerative cannabis consultant,
Joey Berger.
One of the reasons why no-till cannabis growing is so valued by farmers is because the mycelium
networks in the soil remain established from year to year.
And we know these fungal networks are essential because they are the nutrient superhighways
that extend far and wide in the substrate to feed your plants.
The trouble with growing in new living soils or blended cocoa substrates is that it takes
most of the plant's life just to create these mycelium highways.
Dinomycoendomycorrhizal fungi inoculant reduces that time and gets your plant eating a wider
array of nutrients faster.
And it's three times the concentration of the other popular brand in the US at 900 propagules
per gram of two fungal species selected specifically for cannabis cultivation.
Dinomyco is the result of 30 years of research and trials at the Volcani Agricultural Research
Institute in Israel.
It has also been vigorously trialed by cannabis and food growers across the US.
Dinomyco is now available at grow shops and on Amazon in the United States.
I love using Dinomyco to both speed up the growth of the mycelium networks in the soil,
but also as a biostimulant to make clone cuttings more virile.
You can see side by side showing the comparative growth on their Instagram at Dinomyco.
If you demand reliable growing results and appreciate the importance of an active root
zone in creating a thriving plant, I encourage you to check out Dinomyco.com and use the
store locator to find out where you can get yours.
That's D-Y-N-O-M-Y-C-O dot com.
Shaping Fire listeners can get 10% off any size of Dinomyco on Amazon or Dinomyco.com
by using the discount code ShapingFire, one word, no caps.
Whether you are starting with new beds or pots, or if you want to add some zing to tired
soil, choose Dinomyco to maximize your plant's potential.
Dinomyco Endomycorrhizal Inoculant.
If you are an autoflower and cannabis enthusiast, this event's for you.
Announcing the 2021 Autoflower Cup, August 6th, 7th, and 8th in Lilloop, Washington,
just outside of Seattle.
Presented by Camp Ruderales, this gathering has something for everyone.
There's the Autoflower Cup competition, of course, but it's so much more than that.
There'll be a Stunden glass hookah lounge, a pop-up magical butter chocolate shop, and
waterfront marketplace with an array of vendors.
There will be an old-school autoflower seed swap, joint rolling competition, cannabis
cooking demos, solventless squishing demos, and late-night documentary screenings of both
Dosed and Fantastic Fungi.
The food will be lit, too, including Chef Sebastian Carosi's award-winning classics
like Elk Chili, Kobe Beef Kimchi Dogs, Oyster Po' Boys, and Razor Clam Chowder.
Enjoy the Campfire Chili and Oyster Chowder Cook-Off, wild oyster harvesting, mushroom
foraging, and s'mores around the campfires each night.
Each day there, Dan Jimmy of Mandalorian will teach about autoflowers, and there will be
presentations on closet cultivation and hunting for psilocybin mushrooms.
The competition is open to everyone, commercial and home growers.
There is a category for photo-period plants, too, so check out theautoflowercup2021.com
for those details.
Clearly, there will be plenty of cannabis around, but due to state law, it won't be
supplied by the event, but there will be easy public toking, which is why this is a
strictly over-21 event.
You can camp, rent a cabin, or stay at a local Airbnb.
Glamping and RV packages are available, too.
I'm happy to say that Shaping Fire is a sponsor of the event, and I'll be there,
too.
I look forward to connecting with other autoflower fans like me.
So get all the details at theautoflowercup2021.com and follow the Instagram at theautoflowercup2021.
And I'll see you in August at Autoflower Cup when we bring the autoflower family together
to celebrate.
There is no doubt that autoflowering cannabis plants have finally come into their own, and
Night Owl Seeds works tirelessly bringing you autoflower genetics that are reliable,
thriving, and with extraordinary terpene profiles.
Night Owl Seeds is an industry leader because of the focused work of their founder, Daz.
Daz is passionate about the cannabis plant and pushing what autoflowers can do, and cultivators
know that these efforts show through in his seeds.
And Night Owl Seeds really are extraordinary.
Just take a look at the thousands of photos by fans on Instagram.
The proof is there and obvious.
Terpenes are complex and rich.
Plants have vigor.
If you are a fan of Mephisto genetics like I am, you'll likely also love Night Owl
Seeds.
Night Owl founder Daz worked with Mitch Mephisto to build the Mephisto brand for years, including
breeding Mephisto's much-loved Sour Stomper and Cosmic Queen cultivars.
I'm growing both Night Owl and Mephisto this year because I want the best.
And Night Owl Seeds knows how to cultivate community, too.
Daz puts out great stickers, exclusive packaging for limited runs, and desirable freebies.
He really draws you in if you love creative branding.
Night Owl even has the Secret Owl Society text club.
Just text the word NIGHTOWL one word to 760-670-3130 for early announcements and exclusive opportunities.
Of course, you can see lots of photos and find out about upcoming drops by following
the Night Owl Seeds Instagram, too, at Daz.NightOwl.
You can get your packs of Night Owl Seeds at several distributors, including DC Seed
Exchange, Insane Seeds, and Hembra Genetics.
That's Night Owl Seeds.
There's a difference because we're different.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I am your host, Shango Lose.
Our guest this week is regenerative cannabis consultant Joey Burger.
Before the break, we were talking a lot about how to look at your own property, mostly just
kind of like get folks' mental eyes into the idea of seeing their entire property as
this living, functioning, dancing thing.
Because it's from our relationship with it that we create the safety of home and the
food that we eat and hopefully the cash crops that we offer to others so that our family
can survive.
But so often, we then buy inputs from off the property that could be easily replaced
with inputs which might actually be plants that are causing us problems on the property,
which we could actually turn into healthy inputs.
So why don't you talk us through the kinds of plants that you're looking for and how
to see the plants on your property that could be used as nutritive inputs that could replace
other stuff that we're buying and bringing to the property.
Yeah, thanks, Shango.
I want to bounce back one second to something you said when we came back from the break.
You introduced me and you called me regenerative cannabis consultant, which I appreciate that.
That title helps let people know that I am open for business.
But I want to talk to people for a minute about these titles we give ourselves and how
we can get wrapped up in them and how we can feel insecure about sharing the knowledge
that we have.
Am I good enough to be called a regenerative cannabis consultant and share this knowledge?
We call ourselves a cannabis grower or a permaculture designer or whatever these different terms
are that identifies as the singular.
I want people to think of themselves as the activist.
I'm not a regenerative cannabis consultant.
I'm an activist for regenerative cannabis.
I'm an activist for permaculture.
I know you are an activist for cannabis.
When we think of ourselves as the activist, we are now working for a higher power, much
bigger than ourselves, a cause much bigger than our own, than the individual.
When we think of the activist, pass me the bullhorn, pass me that sign.
I'm not taking shit from anybody.
I believe passionately in what I'm doing and I'm going to yell it from the mountaintops.
So I hope you all will join me in thinking of yourselves as activists for this plant,
activists for this planet, activists for these regenerative practices and not get wrapped
up in the I'm a pot grower, I'm a cannabis farmer, I'm a permaculturist, whatever it
is.
You're activists and I've seen the passion in this community and the way we've all had
to fight every step of the way to get this plant and this industry to where it is and
the fight's not over yet.
So don't think of yourself as the grower.
Think of yourself as the activist for all growers.
And yeah, I just want to send a lot of love out there to everyone who's just been carrying
this torch for a long time and going to jail and fighting the good fight and it's far from
over but I just want to put that in everyone's head that y'all are activists and I respect
you.
I respect so many of you.
That is so well said, Joey.
And hearing you say it, it really changes how people ground themselves.
If they ground themselves as a cultivator or whatever, they're grounding themselves
in how they make money versus as an activist, we're identifying ourselves as we are defenders
and growers of natural systems, which is more amorphous than what I sell but it's probably
way healthier overall and a much better way to identify oneself.
Yeah, activists don't have time for haters or trolls.
We believe in this mission.
It's much bigger than us and we make no excuses for it.
So what are these plants that are on our property that we can use in very simple ways to feed
our plants and replace some of the stuff that we normally buy?
Sure.
Well, I practice a few different types of cultivation in my toolbox, some Korean natural
farming techniques and some Jadam techniques, which is a little evolution of Korean natural
farming.
So I came onto a new farm here last year, a new property, and I came here in March and
we start looking around.
What are the things that are starting to grow early in the year like that?
In March and April here, some of the first things to start vegging are the blackberries.
People here consider the blackberry invasive.
It grows on just about every piece of property in Humboldt County.
It's hard to pull out, it's pokey, it's scratchy, but it's incredible habitat for birds, it
provides delicious berries, and it's an incredible fertilizer.
Those fast-growing green shoots in the springtime are full of growth hormones, they're full
of nitrogen.
So one of the very first ferments I make in the springtime is that blackberry ferment.
Some of the next plants to come along are going to be your nettles, your stinging nettle
and your dead nettle seem to show up in April.
I just did a big horsetail harvest over the weekend, that seems to pop up in May.
Horsetail is high in silica, good for building cellular wall strength, great for treating
powdery mildew.
I make a foliar feed, I also make a pesticide with it that's also good for powdery mildew
prevention.
Right now we've got the St. John's wort blooming, which I also use to make a pesticide.
So it's really looking at what's available right now, getting in touch with these plants,
what do you have in abundance.
If you only have a little bit of something, don't harvest it.
If we go into these areas, I want to make sure it doesn't look like I was even in there
harvesting.
I'll never harvest more than 25% of anything.
If I'm taking some materials out of the woods, like leaf mold or some leaves or anything,
I bring something back into the woods to replace it.
Some wood chips or some straw or some soil or some compost.
We don't want to encourage people to just go out to the woods and just start harvesting
and extracting these resources.
We need to do it in a way that's actually beneficial.
I talked before about the permaculture principle of stacking functions.
So we don't just go and cut these plants willy-nilly.
If I've got a bed in my garden that's overgrown with blackberry, well those are the blackberries
I'm going to use to make this ferment.
We had a class here on Friday.
We had about 40 people here.
We did a little natural farming class on our farm.
And I made this blackberry ferment.
And I took them over to where the blackberries were all growing into the pathway.
If you walked by them, they'd reach out and they'd scratch you.
And those are the branches that we made the ferment out of.
We stacked our functions.
Instead of just clearing those and cutting them and throwing them somewhere, we made
a ferment out of them.
So you want to avoid any poisonous plants.
You don't want to use blackberry.
I mean, poison oak, better you feed that to your goat.
But for the most part, there are plants all around you that you can harvest on the sides
of the roads, in the forests.
I am just constantly amazed.
I like to just, at some point, get present to where I'm standing outside and just start
looking around.
For most folks, it sounds like the first place they should start is by making an inventory.
Go walk their property at the beginning of April or even a little earlier if where you
live the snow recedes sooner than that.
And then make an inventory and start by researching those plants.
Because a lot of the plants that we think of as invasives, like the blackberry, or some
of the things that are just like a challenging plant that takes over, like the horsetail,
whatever the plant is where you live that is spreading so much, at the beginning of
the season, it is trying to express abundant life, energy for itself.
Those are the parts of the plant that we use for our various concoctions.
You gave us examples based on where you live, but it sounds like no matter where the person
lives in the country, first things first is to make a list of all the plants that you've
got too much of in the spring so that you can strategize how to turn those into nutrients.
You want to get to know your plant allies in your biome.
And I would recommend people get a book on edibles, foraging wild edibles, because a
lot of these plants we think of as weeds are edibles, certain times of the year or in how
you prepare them.
And I would also recommend people get a book on harvesting wild medicinals, because a lot
of these same plants have incredible medicinal and healing effects.
The St. John's wort we harvested over the weekend, I use it for pesticide, but we're
also harvesting it to make tinctures out of.
So yeah, get to know the plants in your biome, in your community, in your neighborhood.
You might not have that much diversity on your property, but I bet within a five mile
radius, there are lots of plants.
So get out there and introduce yourself and get to know them.
So once we've identified these plants that are on our property in abundance, and we have...
Sorry about that.
Once we have identified them and we know what we want from them, these nutrients are kind
of like locked in there, right?
And I know that there are both aerated techniques to coax these nutrients out, and there are
also un-aerated techniques that can coax these out.
And as a matter of fact, the first time I ever heard about natural farming was from
a buddy of mine on the island.
I went over to his house and he had these five, five gallon buckets, and they all had
subtle bubbles covering them as they were there in the hot sun.
And it just looked sludgy to my inexperienced eyes, here 10 years ago now.
And I'm all like, dude, your bubbler's broken.
And he's like, no man, I know what I'm doing.
And I'm like, all right.
And I just moved on.
And it wasn't until a couple of years later that I realized that not everything needs
a bubbler.
But I got to tell you, in my head, they generally do.
So will you walk us through the different ways in which to bring the nutrition out of
these plants so that we can use them?
Sure.
Well, I prefer...
I tend to use anaerobic ferments.
These are your non-aerated ferments.
I like to use the microbes that are on the leaf mold in the forest to break down my plants,
to extract the nutrients, to make them plant available.
And so I do this by going into the forest, into the deep, untouched areas of the forest.
And I go near the base of these big trees.
Often here it's oaks or madrones or doug fir.
And I peel back that top layer of leaf, the undecomposed leaf from just the last season
or two.
And you get down into that little lower layer of leaf that's starting to break down as it
turns into the soil.
And you're going to see these white strands of mycelium, looks like spider webs, racing
through that soil.
These are large networks of bacteria, microbes, that are breaking down that soil.
A lot of these are decomposers.
Some are predators that eat the decomposers.
The soil food web, there's a whole food chain taking place under that soil.
So when we harness the power of these microbes and gather them from the forest, these are
billions of workers.
In one gram of that leaf mold, there are between two and 10 billion microbes.
We can harness their power and we can put them to work.
And when I harvest these from the forest, from my farm here, I know these are microbes
that are strong, they're powerful.
These are the indigenous microorganisms.
They're already thriving here at my elevation and my exposure.
These are the good ones.
When you buy a bag of mycorrhizae from the store, we don't know if any of those strands
are going to survive here, but we know that the ones we collect locally, they're already
putting in the work here.
These are the strong microbes.
I like to use those microbes to break down my plant material, meaning I put my plant
material in a bucket with some water, I throw a handful of that leaf mold in there, and
then those microbes go to work over the next couple of weeks, breaking down that plant
material.
I chop the plant material up into two to four inch pieces.
This just gives some more entry points for the microbes to go in and start breaking down
that plant matter.
When we culture these teas, these anaerobic teas, we're not aerating it, we're not heating
it.
These microbes are surviving and thriving at that ambient temperature.
When we make a compost tea and we aerate it and we heat it, yeah, we might be building
a lot of biology, but the minute that that temperature changes or the bubble stops, that
biology starts dying off quickly.
Compost teas are cool, they're great, but it's a lot of work.
They have to be applied at the right time.
These anaerobic ferments just take a lot of the guesswork out.
It's very easy.
As long as you dilute them at least 30 to 1, it's hard to go wrong.
You just kind of broke my brain, Joey.
I have always been a big fan of aerated teas because in my head, they're like, oh yeah,
we're supercharging them with the oxygen that's so abundant of life.
Then I put it on and everything.
That's a really good point.
As soon as we take them from the bubbler and they're not being in this highly oxygenated
environment and they're in the soil, suddenly we've got all of these oxygenated microbes
that are in a much less oxygen environment of the soil.
I think I just tripped on a fight that I remember participating or watching about five years
back online about this.
I think I'm just understanding the nature of the fight now.
Who are the guys, who are these microbes that are in these anaerobic fermentations?
Will they survive more effectively than the aerated ones once they've been applied to
the soil?
Yeah, these are the tough guys.
These are the tough guys from up on the hill.
They've been surviving up here for eons.
They weren't made in a laboratory.
I always think about the use the plants that are on your property because we always, through
natural farming, through K&F, we're always talking about collecting and incubating IMO,
indigenous microorganisms.
As far as I'm concerned, that's the gold standard for natural farming is collecting and incubating
more of those.
Because we know that they know how to do the work where you live.
I apparently have not been using the same strategy in my compost tea because I'm a huge
fan of aerated compost teas.
I'm not going to say that I'm going to stop using them.
But now you've made a case for anaerobic teas, which is really hard to argue with.
Like you said, it's so much easier.
Well, something else we do to get the best of both worlds, when I dilute that ferment
into my dilution tank, I diluted it 30 to 1 or 50 to 1, depending on what my input is.
Sometimes I will aerate it.
I will aerate between one to eight hours.
And that will activate a lot of those microbes.
And now you're getting the best of both worlds.
So it usually just depends on what's my feeding schedule like.
Do I have time to aerate this?
Am I just trying to get this watered in and bounce?
So with eight hours of aeration, are you suggesting that the eight hours of aeration is not enough
to degrade the anaerobic microbes, but it also excites the aerobic microbes?
And so then you've got a blend of aerobic and anaerobic?
Or are you saying that adding some of the oxygen actually excites the anaerobics too?
Yeah, my understanding is it's going to excite those anaerobics and bring them to life.
Right on.
All right.
So we're taking these five-gallon buckets and we're cutting our material down.
And we're going to add, you said a handful of this forest duff material that's rich with mycelium
and has been breaking down stuff for the last couple of years.
Since the product that we're going to be using out of this is the water, the water component,
how much of it is really important?
So how much of the five-gallon bucket would you fill up with this found plant material,
these new shoots, these new greens, these new tops of plants and trees?
And how much, leaving room for water, to what degree?
Do we want to fill it all the way up with the plants or is that too much?
Yeah, with your regular type of plant material, I'd fill it at least halfway with plant material,
fill the rest of the container up with water.
Certain plants, if I know they're going to break down and turn into mush, I fill the
container all the way up with plant material.
One of the first liquid fertilizers I make in the early spring is from the grass that
I mow in my garden.
I use a lawn mower with a bag and I do it early in the morning so the grass is all wet
and it's covered in the microbes.
I bag that up and throw it in a 50-gallon drum, fill that thing all the way up with grass,
fill it with water, I add about a one-gallon pot worth of this leaf mold that I collected
in the forest.
And then over the first week, that grass will be floating a little bit on the top so I will
stir it a little bit over the first week.
Usually after about a week, it's all wet and mushy and started to disintegrate and starting
to sink.
But if you make a ferment and everything's still floating, just give it some good stirs
that first week.
If you're making these out of dry materials, like we go to the ocean, we gather mussel
shells or oyster shells, we'll crush those up for calcium.
If you're using dry powders or dry manures to make these, you're going to want to use
10 parts water to one part of that dry material.
So if I've got a 5-gallon bucket, I'm only filling it up about a half-gallon's worth
and then I'm filling the rest with water and I'm stirring that input over the first week
or two just to make sure all the dry material is getting wet at the bottom.
Alright, so if this process takes a week or so, it sounds like your grass experiment at
the beginning of the season, you actually even let it sit longer than a week.
But if we're letting this stuff sit unaerated for a week, especially the manure example,
but generally plants too, it starts doing its magic and you start to see the little
bubbles on the top, so you know that the magic is happening.
I normally think that I don't want to put that on my plants because the stuff smells
rank often, right?
Sometimes you'll get a plant, like a lemon balm particularly smells better than most,
but a lot of this stuff does not smell pleasant.
You're taking a plant that is naturally bitter in many cases and then you're letting it degrade
to the point that it's giving off gases and then you smell and you're like, hell no, I'm
not putting this on my plants.
And it sounds like it's an old myth that I've got in my head and I need to let that go.
Well, yeah, these are anaerobic ferments.
They are stinky and that is certainly a lot of people's criticism of them is, ew, they're
gross, they're yucky.
You get them on your hands and your shoes, it does stink.
There's no beating around that bush.
Most of these ferments take at least 10 to 14 days for grass or purslane.
Things like those oyster shells or things like mistletoe might take three months or
more to break down.
But yeah, they are stinky the whole way through.
But I want you to think back, think back through your ancestors to how we farmed for thousands
of years.
We humans were largely using our own manure for farming practices.
And not that long ago in Southeast Asia and China, there was a thriving human manure market
and black market around manure because it was such a valuable source in agriculture.
They call it night water.
And they would actually build along the rural farming back roads in China, human manure
was such a valuable resource that they would build these beautiful outhouses on the side
of the road and they would paint them and decorate them elaborately to try to get travelers
to stop at their fancy outhouse to leave a deposit that you could use in your fields.
This is how valuable human manure was.
And so we as humans, we have completely removed ourselves from the loop.
All we talk about is closing the loop.
Get back in the loop, guys.
We take our human waste and we put it in our clean drinking water and we turn it into
a waste resource that this world spends billions of dollars trying to clean and treat.
And I would highly encourage everyone to get the book called The Human Manure Handbook
and really start thinking about how we deal with our waste streams and how we can work
these waste streams back into our systems.
Human manure composted for two years is perfectly safe.
I've put my hands right in it.
I've got a friend who won an Emerald Cup with some human manure-grown cannabis.
He does not want people to know that, but it's true.
So I use my own urine.
I've made a urine ferment.
Basically you want to throw a couple inches of leaf mold in the bottom of a bucket and
then fill that thing up over a couple of weeks.
I think it took me about two weeks to fill up a five-gallon bucket.
And you let that sit for six months and then you can dilute that at 100 to one.
It's very potent high nitrogen fertilizer.
And now I have talked about closing the loop.
I am the loop.
And at 100 to one, you don't even have to go to a five-gallon bucket.
You go half a five-gallon bucket.
That's going to last you many, many seasons and potentially your neighbors too if they're
going to touch this stuff.
I've got more than enough urine ferment to go around.
I'll send you a bottle.
So let's compare that.
Let's talk with the aerated teas.
So even though you mostly use un-aerated teas because they are easy and quick to get to,
there are certainly people who are using aerated compost teas and other things as well.
Let's go back to the example where a farmer's got their farm and they have done their spring
inventory of plants and they're cutting off the green bits and they are putting those
in five-gallon buckets or larger, and they're going to let them sit for one week to six
months depending on what it is.
There's probably a place on that same farm for aerated teas as well.
What can I use to decide which plant materials I want to aerate and which ones I want to
not aerate?
That's going to be up to your context.
I've basically completely eliminated compost teas, aerated compost teas from any farming
I'm doing.
Dude, that's such heresy, dude.
I can't even believe I'm hearing you say that.
Well, you've got to look at where did these things come from, who was pushing them.
Around here it was certainly the grow stores pushing them as a safer alternative to your
salts, but they wanted to sell you these big expensive multi-thousand dollar brewers.
Almost every farm I go to visit, I see one collecting dust next to the shed.
Farmers are only going to do things if they're easy.
We have to make farming accessible for everyone.
That's what I really like about natural farming, Korean natural farming and JADAM.
It takes away, it just makes it very simple.
The creator of Korean natural farming, Dr. Cho Han-Kyu, he wanted to give the power back
to the farmer.
The chemical companies, the fertilizer companies, they want you to think you have to go to the
university, you have to be well educated to understand soil science, to understand what
your plants want.
That's just not true.
We've been doing this at our ancestors' farm for thousands of years without any of these
things.
If we can just mimic how nature farms, you ever see a compost tea getting aerated in
nature?
No.
Where would you see that?
I don't see where it's necessary.
In my context, these anaerobic teas, they make a lot more sense.
Yes, they're stinky and gross.
My hands literally stink right now because I applied some this morning.
But that's the life, man.
Stinky hand life.
Stinky hand life.
With these different inputs, there's a big range in how long they will sit in the bucket.
You've got some of these that you said you just go a week.
And then there's some that have got tougher skins and they take more time to pull out
like the horsetail.
And then for more solid things like the oyster shells and such, you were saying six months.
How does a person know how long they should let this anaerobic tea sit before it's reached
maximum quality?
And is there ever a too long?
Well, first off, let me make it clear by saying these anaerobic ferments I'm describing right
now are what we call JADAM liquid fertilizers.
I would encourage everyone to get the JADAM ultra low cost organic agriculture book.
It was written by the son of Master Cho, who created Korean Natural Farming.
His son, Young-Sang Cho, wanted to make it so Korean Natural Farming could be done on
a larger scale.
And that's how he was able to simplify everything using this leaf mold and water.
So some of the things I love about making these ferments is they don't go bad.
They get better with age.
And you never have to empty the container out or clean it, unlike a compost tea brewer.
Anybody who's ever climbed in a compost tea brewer knows that nightmare.
That's what I'm doing when we're done with this interview, brother.
I got to do that today.
Don't do it.
Throw that thing in the...
Put that thing on Craigslist.
So yeah, I lost my train of thought.
I was thinking about...
Oh, I asked you how long do we let these...
How do we know how long to let these anaerobic ferments sit?
So normally that liquid will get dark.
And I've got ferments that are a year old right now that are black.
That blackberry one I made, that liquid is dark.
And they just get better with age.
The darker they get, the better.
So yeah, soft plants like the purslane, the grass, even the horsetail, those are all ready
to use in two weeks.
And so when I use up all that material, all that liquid, I never empty out the container.
I just fill it back up with more horsetail, another handful of leaf mold and some water,
throw the lid on it, leave it in the sun right in the middle of my garden.
You never clean out that material.
You just keep adding to it.
So that's one of the things I love about these JADAM liquid fertilizers.
And so yeah, you're gonna wanna wait till the liquid gets dark.
That's how you know it's ready.
Soft stuff, usually two weeks.
Harder stuff, up to three to six months.
Some of the manures, they say six months.
Wow.
All right.
So is there such thing as a book that suggests how long to let these things sit or is it
really simply the darkness?
Because that seems too simple, right?
It seems like there has to be more than that.
Well, the big concern is that you're gonna burn something.
And with these, you always dilute them at least 20 to 30 times.
So the concern is maybe it wasn't as powerful as you hoped it would have been.
But you're not gonna burn anything, which is the biggest concern.
But I would recommend everybody do a test first.
Water one little area, foliar one little area.
Don't do the whole thing.
Start with 10% of the crop.
Don't hit me up later saying you killed everything.
Hit me up later and say you killed 10% of your crop.
All right.
So let's talk more about indigenous microbes.
And so for most natural farming systems, your local microbes that you were suggesting
earlier, we know they can handle the heat.
We know they can handle the seasonal dryness.
We know that they know how to do the work here locally.
For most of us, collecting IMO using the Korean natural farming technique is the way that
is probably most popular.
It's one of the reasons why I tell people to use your local plants because they're already
populated on the outside with your local microbes.
Do you have any other suggestions for either collecting IMO to bring it to your property
or ways to incubate them like we do in the IMO stages of Korean natural farming to give
the indigenous microorganisms the best step up we can?
Yeah.
Well, in Korean natural farming, yes, you've got this IMO, indigenous microorganism process
about five different steps.
You get to IMO eight or nine, but the most common are five steps.
The first being putting cooked grains, cooked rice in a cedar box or in a bamboo basket
out in the forest where these microbes are present and you're going to capture, they're
going to grow on that rice.
You're going to capture those microbes over about a week's time, depending on the temperature.
It's a tricky process.
I probably had eight or nine failures before I started getting some good captures.
At my old farm, there's a lot of wildlife and I had issues with animals getting into
it, get to eat the rice, rain, getting it rained on.
I finally had a good capture when I filled a wheelbarrow full of leaf mold and all this
basically brought the forest to my back porch of my cabin and put the wheelbarrow right
on the back porch where I knew the animals wouldn't come and I put my collection box
right in that pile of leaf mold and was able to get a good collection right there.
So once you've got that collection of those indigenous microorganisms on that rice, you
mix it, equal weights, brown sugar, and that just holds it in stasis.
You can store it long term.
Now you've got your microbes, your IMO two collection that's called.
The next steps, three through nine, are growing that on different types of medium.
We use rolled oats or crimped oats and bran and wood chips.
25% oats, 25% bran, and about 50% wood chips.
And then we make a solution using that IMO, some gallons of water, some different inputs.
We use humic acid.
We use brown rice vinegar.
We use a little seawater, which is high in minerals, has 93 minerals.
And so then you wet that medium down and you can basically grow these microbes.
They'll inoculate it and grow it into a big pile over a week.
And then you can double the size of that pile by mixing it with soil from your land.
It's a long process.
It could take six, seven, eight weeks.
I've got an IMO four pile and IMO five pile going right now at different farms I'm consulting
on right now.
So in Korean natural farming, they say that IMO process is 80% of Korean natural farming.
It is the most important thing to have this biologically rich soil.
And that once you get to that IMO four process, you would basically put a light dusting of
it on your soil.
That's how much you need to apply.
I'm not talking a quarter inch.
I'm not talking a 16 inch.
I'm talking a light dusting is enough to put this super powerful workers into your soil.
And when we have biologically rich soil, microbial rich soil, we're going to use less water.
We're going to use less fertilizer.
They've actually run tests where they found that these biologically rich soils, if you
over fertilize them, that your yields will actually go down.
So you might find that once your soil is biologically rich, you can feed way less than you used
to as well as water less.
So this is very important.
And as I mentioned before, the creator of JADAM, Master Cho's son, wanted to make this
into an easier process that could be done on a larger scale.
So we have an input we call JMS, JADAM microbial solution.
And instead of capturing these microbes on some rice over a week, we can grow them in
a bucket of water, the microbes on a handful of leaf mold, and we grow them on some smushed
up mashed potatoes.
We put a handful of boiled potatoes, we mush them up into this water with a little bit
of our leaf mold.
And over, it can happen in two days and really hot conditions or over a week in cold conditions,
you're going to get microbial growth in this, in this essentially, in this solution.
And so you're going to see this, it's going to start making very tiny bubbles.
These are the microbes and it's going to turn into a foam on the top of that, on the top
of that bucket.
And when that foam is at its most vigorous peak, that's when you've got the biggest growth.
You've got about a 12 hour window to use this.
So you can either dilute it and, and, and soil drench with it or foliar feed with it.
Or you can, you can jump back into that IMO process.
And for long-term storage, you can use that, that JMS solution as the input solution to
make your IMO 3.
So you could take your bran and your oats and your wood chips.
And instead of making that liquid solution with the IMO 2 and all those other inputs,
you can just use your JMS to inoculate that pile and kind of skip ahead of that IMO 1
and 2 process.
That can be a little tricky.
So, so through this, during the second set, we've essentially found two different ways
to supercharge the property without spending money on, on the store bought stuff.
On one hand, we want to gather the plants that we know already succeed on our farm to
the point of being a pest, these plants, and then also doing what we can to, to capture
and incubate our local organisms.
So during the next set, we're going to talk about, you know, keeping things away.
We're going to talk about pest discouragement, but it really sounds like, you know, taking
these two, these two inputs, the, the plants that we find on the property and the microbes
we find on the property, all we're trying to do is to caretake the living things that
are property and that we find the most beneficial and incubate them and help them along.
It actually makes it sound a lot more simple than most people think about fertilizer.
Well, it comes back to mimicking these systems that we see in nature, you know, microbes
in the soil, deep layers of mulch.
You know, the, these are just the patterns that we've already see existing and thriving.
And if we don't, why would we try to do anything else?
You know, the more, the more I get into natural farming, the more I find that the core of
natural farming is unlearning what I've already been taught.
Yeah.
One thing I want to say, I want to bounce back to the liquid fertilizers real quick.
It's important that people think of their plant as having three, three, three different
stages of its life.
In Korean natural farming in Jadam, we talk about the plant having three stages.
Let's look at the cannabis plant.
We talk about its vegetative stage.
This is the high, you know, vegetative growing early in the season.
We look at its transition phase.
This is when it's starting to flower or starting to fruit.
And then you've got your flowering and fruiting stage.
This is when it's budding, it's fully, fully budding.
So you've got these three stages.
And then we want to make these foods from plants during these stages to feed at those
stages.
So let's just take that.
Let's stick with that cannabis plant because I know that's what a lot of your listeners
are growing.
We make our high nitrogen vegetative teas for our cannabis from our vegetative cannabis
plants.
We'll, you know, excess plants, or if you've got some males you want to kill, or if you've
got some plants where you need to clean out the inside of them.
I talked before about good airflow.
You want to cut out those inner shoots, those little branches, those leaves.
We use those green leafy shoots to make our high nitrogen vegetative teas.
And then when that plant's going into bud, and you've got those tiny little buds on the
inside of that plant and the bottom of those branches, clean out those little buds.
Once again, improving that airflow, getting the plant to focus its energy on the buds
that are getting hit by the sun and going to get big and produce.
And now you've got a ferment that you can make into your transition tea.
And you're going to feed this during transition.
I grow some auto flowers here.
So I always make sure I harvest a few of those early in the year so that I'll have some transition
teas before my full terms are going into that transition time.
Actually here in Humboldt, that's around third week of July, around July 20th, we'll
start feeding those transition teas.
And then you want to make your flower tea out of some ripe bud.
So same thing, I'll use some of my auto flowers.
If I've got a messed up plant or two or something that doesn't look right, I'll make my ferment
out of that ripe, turpy bud and feed that during flowering.
And so same thing, we make these flower ferments out of plants that are high in phosphorus.
This could be your pumpkin.
This could be your zucchini.
You know those giant zucchinis you're always sneaking in your friend's car when they come
over to your house?
You're just giving away your fertility, man.
You should be feeding that to your ganja.
So yeah, knowing those plants, figuring out what nutrients they're high in, what are their
mineral makeups, and making those plants into ferments and feeding them to the plant at
the correct time in its life cycle.
Fabulous.
Well, thank you for that, Joey.
So let's go ahead and take our second short break and be right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire, and my guest today is regenerative cannabis consultant
Joey Berger.
As cannabis regulations become more demanding and consumers become more educated, it is
increasingly important to avoid the use of chemical pesticides when cultivating cannabis.
Beneficial insects have been used for decades by the greenhouse vegetable and ornamental
and today many cannabis cultivators are moving from sprays and chemicals to beneficial insects.
Copert Biological Systems has the beneficial insects, mites and nematodes, microbials,
sticky cards, and air distribution units you need to partner with nature to defend your
garden.
Whether you manage acres of canopy or have a simple grow tent in your home, Copert is
ready to help answer your questions and help you transition away from chemical sprays towards
clean and natural solutions.
Since 1967, Copert has assisted growers in identifying pests and devising reliable solutions
while providing healthy insects and mites that will protect your yield.
Since the 1990s, Copert has been a leader in cannabis pest and disease control worldwide
and have highly trained consultants to assist you in Canada and the U.S. from coast to coast.
No matter where you live, Copert Biological Systems can help.
Visit copert.com, choose your country, and get detailed information.
That's copert, K-O-P-P-E-R-T dot com.
For the most up-to-date cannabis-related biological control information, you can also check out
their Instagram, at Copert Canada.
You know getting away from pesticides is good for health and good for business, and Copert
is ready to help.
Visit copert.com today.
This message is for folks who grow cannabis.
I'm talking to home growers, patients, and commercial growers too.
I'm probably talking to you.
When you plan out your next growing cycle, be sure to check out Humboldt CSI seeds at
humboldtcsi.com.
Caleb Inspecta and his family have lived in Humboldt County for over 100 years.
For the last 40 years, three generations of his family have cultivated extraordinary Sensamea
cannabis in Humboldt, Mendocino, and Trinity counties.
Because of his lineage and the hard-earned experience that comes from growing up, smoking,
and sifting large populations of cannabis plants in Northern California, the seeds you'll
cop from CSI will be winning genetics, based on long-time heavy hitters, and updated and
re-sifted to bring out new and exotic traits and better yields.
Go ahead and ask around.
Caleb, also known as Inspecta and Pirates of the Emerald Triangle, is a breeder's breeder.
He reaches way back and works with significant strains, recreating them in new and interesting
ways that you'll love as a toker and a grower, as well as offering you some surprises that
will delight serious seed traders and cultivators.
Humboldt CSI goes a further step and selfs all these chemovars so you know all the seeds
will be female.
These are not experimental feminized seeds.
Humboldt CSI releases some of the best female seeds available anywhere, and it will show
in your garden.
Folks grew quite a bit of CSI Humboldt GenX last year here on Vashon Island, and everyone
was pleased.
The patients had beautiful female plants and didn't have to cull half of their garden as
males.
The folks growing for the fun of getting high grew colorful flowers with exceptional bag
appeal and great highs.
And breeders had 7 out of 7 females in a pack, which gave them a lot of phenotypic choices.
Take a moment right now and visit humboldtcsi.com.
You'll find an up-to-date menu of both feminized and regular lines, along with photos and descriptions.
That's humboldtcsi.com.
For 20 years, Humboldt Seed Company has been family-owned in providing reliable, high-yielding
seeds originating in Northern California.
While the current trend is to slap one super male into a line of hype strains, Humboldt
Seed Company continues to breed with precision and care by doing large sifts and back crosses
to emphasize the absolute best traits that a line has to offer.
This kind of breeding takes time, talent, and space to work.
No matter what kind of aroma you are particularly into, Humboldt Seed will likely have something
you'll love.
If you love fruit, you can choose from banana, mango, apricot, papaya, blueberry, blood orange,
melon, and lemons across their various strains.
They have all-gas, glue, and classic sour diesel lines as well.
Of course, there are the heritage California strains like OG Kush, Jack Herr, and Headband,
and their award-winning blueberry muffin is one that delights just about everybody's
palate, especially when concentrated.
Humboldt Seed Company is proud to bring to market the infamous freak show cultivar 2,
which has a great THC high, but looks so much like a fern that some folks can't even identify
it as cannabis.
It's a plant that really needs to be seen to be believed.
If you're looking for well-balanced CBD seeds, Humboldt Seed Company can turn you on to CBD
strains that actually have flavor, like the dill and pepper terpenes of Willie G's Lebanese
land race.
Whether you are looking for regular, feminized, or autoflowers, Humboldt Seed Company has
the gear to make this your best growing cycle ever.
Visit humboldtseedcompany.com today to check out their line of vigorous genetics, download
their catalog, and find out where you can pick them up.
You can also check out their Instagram at thehumboldtseedcompany to check out their
gorgeous flowers and the extraordinary freak show plant.
Humboldt Seed Company.
Let them know Shango sent ya.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaving Fire.
I am your host, Shango Lose.
Our guest this week is regenerative cannabis consultant, Joey Berger.
During the last set, we were talking about how to capture nutrition and beneficial microbes
on our property, incubate them, make them even more of themselves, and then use them
as fertilizers, thus causing our plants to thrive and saving a whole bunch of money.
Let's take that same approach and talk about pesticides.
For the sake of this conversation, we're going to use the word pesticide for both things
that may kill pests and probably more what we're going to talk about, things that discourage
pests.
Joey, let's start us out with the kinds of plants we're looking for, just like the kinds
of plants that we're looking for when we're trying to wildcraft nutrition.
I'm just going to guess that we're going to be looking for whatever our local bitter and
caustic plants are.
Is that a good place to start?
Yeah, definitely.
The best place to start is walking around your yard and looking at what plants don't
have pests on them.
It's usually going to be your aromatic plants.
It's usually going to be plants that are high in essential oils and have thick herbal aromas,
like a rosemary or a lavender, oregano, these different types of herbs like that.
There's a great book on Jadam pesticides, Making Natural Pesticides, called 100 Plants
for Making Pesticides.
I've identified over 21 of those plants just growing on this one piece of property here.
And I've been making pesticides out of many of those, combining them and making them on
their own.
Some of these are good for soft bodies pests.
Some of them are also good for fighting fungal diseases like powdery mildew.
These Jadam herbal solutions, as they're called, are also beneficial.
They act as a beneficial foliar.
They're very safe.
You don't need to wear protective gear when you spray them.
And can be sprayed multiple times per day on a cool, cloudy day.
You don't want to spray them in the sun.
But yeah, once you realize there are plants all around you that can repel pests, it's another
great tool to have in your toolbox.
But it's not the silver bullet.
You're not going to just spray your way out of all your problems.
I'm going to talk again about diversity.
We're going to go back to that word diversity in your garden.
You know, when you have a monocrop, you've got sitting ducks there.
You know, in nature, it's part of the natural system for a plant to attract bugs.
This is how they help spread their seeds and how they propagate.
The bugs will either carry the seed or the bugs will attract birds that'll come in and
eat the bug and eat the seed and they'll spread it in their manure.
So this is all part of nature.
We're working against nature when we're trying to keep pests away from our cash crop.
So it's a tough order, as everybody knows.
So when we mimic the systems we see in nature, which means diversity, you don't walk in the
forest and see one plant planted in plastic grow bags.
You see hundreds of plants growing together, supporting each other, growing side by side,
network of roots, communicating with each other, sharing nutrients, warning each other
of pests or other pressures coming in.
You know, they communicate through these mycelia networks.
I know you've had some incredible shows talking about this, Shango.
I've really enjoyed them.
So what that means is a diverse planting in your garden.
As many different types of plants, trees, perennials, annuals, vines, berries, as much
diversity as possible.
There are seven layers of plants.
You've got your tubers, you've got your low growing ground covers, you've got your low
herbs, medium herbs, you've got big fruit trees, little fruit trees, you've got vines.
You've got seven right there.
So you've got all these different tools there that are going to bring in diversity into
your garden.
Some of these plants are going to be food sources for predator bugs.
These are plants we call banker plants.
They're going to be food for the predators that come in and eat your pests.
You know, when you release the predator bugs in your garden because you've got an outbreak
and you notice them for a day or two and then they all disappear?
Well, they ate your pests and there's no other food source and they left.
But if you can plant these other banker plants around your garden, you're going to have food
sources for these plants, for these predators to stick around.
The other thing that goes hand in hand with that are trap plants.
These are plants that your pests are more attracted to than your cash crop.
And so we like to plant these around the edge of our garden or at least eight to ten feet
away from the cash crop.
This is going to draw the aphids and draw the mites and draw the cucumber beetles away.
So when you go out in the morning and you're doing your pest scouting, you're going to
check all those trap plants as well as the cash crop.
And you're going to monitor those levels and you're going to decide where that threshold
is of treatment.
You know, one cucumber beetle, no big deal.
You know, 50 cucumber beetles on my blue hubbard squash.
Well now I'm going to spray that squash.
I'm not going to spray the cannabis.
Cannabis doesn't have any cucumber beetles on it, but I'm going to spray that trap plant.
And so yeah, blue hubbard squash is a great plant that I really like to encourage people
to grow.
It works as a great ground cover.
It works as a mulch.
It's providing a lot of shade.
It's providing a food source.
It's that trap plant for the cucumber beetles and any kind of squash bugs.
And you can make an amazing high phosphorus ferment out of that big old squash.
Feed it to your ganja as well as feed it to your family all winter.
So really, you know, these pesticides, they need to be part of a balanced program that
includes diverse plantings of bankers, trap plants, other pollinators.
Just diversity, diversity, diversity.
When you have a diverse system, if one part of it fails, there's somebody else there to
pick up the slack and keep it going.
Diversity is strength.
This is probably one of the most pleasant solutions anybody's ever given a plant nerd,
right?
Like, you know, we all love plants.
We're all bringing home plants all the time, probably more room than we have.
And our solution, you know, and the thing we hate is pests, right?
And you're saying, hey, the solution to that, man, is more plants.
And I'm like, hell yeah.
You know, any excuse to bring home more plants.
I want to hit on something you said earlier.
You said that we don't want to spray these while there's sun.
And is there more to it than just we don't want the water on the plants to burn because
they act like little magnifiers?
Or is there something about, you know, the sprays from these high oil plants that we're
talking about using as pest discouragements that is also not to be sprayed during a sunny
day?
It has to do with the efficacy of these being sprayed during high humid conditions.
In Korea at the Jadam farm, they wake up between 430 and 530 in the morning to foliar feed
and to spray these pesticides.
This way, the plant is covered in that solution, that pesticide, as long as possible before
it evaporates.
This means your pests are coated with it.
There's a better chance you're going to have success.
This comes back to me saying, you know, when I teach people these techniques, if they don't
follow them, they're not going to have as good a success.
It's hard to get some growers to wake up between 430 and 530 in the morning to go spray their
garden.
An outdoor grower, you know, we're here in Humboldt County.
It's very dry.
It's not humid at all.
The only time it's humid here is at 430 to 530 in the morning.
So if you really care about your garden and beating them back with these natural processes,
you're going to get your butt up early and get out there and spray these while it's humid.
And if you've got a cloudy day, get out there and spray five times because you can.
We had a little heat wave here a couple weeks ago, and I had a little aphid outbreak in
my greenhouse.
We had three hot days up in the 90s.
It was over 100 in my greenhouse.
And I had a little aphid outbreak and I got to test out some of my pesticides.
I posted some Instagram videos about it.
Yeah, the pests are here.
We're going to have to deal with them.
And if you've got a bunch of different tools in that toolbox, you've got a better chance
of getting a handle on them.
It's helpful to understand that the reason that we don't want to spray it in the sun
is because the water, the solution evaporates so quickly.
That makes a lot of sense to me.
And it's also interesting because we've all just lived through a year of COVID stuff.
And so many of us have been using those hand sanitizers, right?
And they say it's essentially just alcohol, which is killing the microbes, and then a
sauce that slows down how fast it dries.
Because we want it to stay moist on the hands because that means it's active.
Similarly, it sounds like we want the spray to stay as effective on the plant for as long
as possible before that it goes ahead and evaporates.
And then you double down on it, right?
Then you said, eh, on a cloudy day, you might be able to apply it five times a day.
And when you said that earlier, I'm like, why would I want to do that?
Does that mean this stuff doesn't work?
But I was approaching it wrong.
I'm imagining you're going to say no.
If you can supply it five or six times a day, you're spraying it, letting it evaporate,
and it leaves some helpful residue.
And it's still cloudy, so you spray again, and now it's pushing the bugs back again.
It's essentially like you're just hitting the bugs once versus hitting it five or six
times a day, and then you get the oil buildup on the plant.
So a cloudy day gives you a lot of opportunity to trick out your plant with all these defense
mechanisms.
Yeah.
And I also mentioned earlier, these are also beneficial foliar sprays.
So you're actually feeding your plant beneficials at the same time.
So spraying them five times in one day would only be beneficial for your plant.
Are there any plants or maybe a variety of plants that we don't want to be spraying?
Because it seems to be, from the last set, you're all like, yeah, whatever you got on
your property, except for probably poison oak, go ahead and do an anaerobic ferment
of that stuff and put it on your plants.
As long as it's the new season green stuff that's filled with growing hormones, you're
probably going to be dialed.
And now here during the third set, you're all like, hey, man, all of these plants, the
rosemary, the oregano, garlic, things like that, put those on it as well.
You're essentially just saying, take all your plants and put it on your cannabis, and it's
just going to suit them up.
It sounds like it might be overly simplified, but it really does seem to be our point.
Well, that's somewhat simplifying it.
I mean, I do a lot of testing.
I don't do anything willy nilly.
If I'm messing with a new plant that's unproven to me, I test it out.
I test it on one plant.
I feed one plant a few times with it before I would feed anything else.
So there's plenty of plants that are well known in our cannabis community as being beneficial,
I would seek those out first before you start messing with any unknowns.
Right on.
I guess my idea in approaching it like that was just simply people who don't live on the
West Coast like you and I do, and they've got different plants than we do.
So I guess it would be, do an inventory for your farm and then look them up.
And if you don't happen to have any plants that are historically used as fertilizers,
well then maybe you want to plant it.
Though I find it mind boggling that anyone would have to plant horsetail, but it's because
I've lived on the West Coast, right?
And so horsetail has always been ubiquitous.
Yeah.
Well, I'm on the East side of Southern Humboldt, a little farther from the coast, and we don't
have a lot of it growing here.
We're pretty far inland.
We have it growing on one dam of a graywater pond that we have where it really stays wet
all year.
We only have it in one site.
So yeah, I want to encourage people, get familiar with the plants in your area.
And a lot of what we're talking about here is very much, not everybody has access to
the land, to plants.
A lot of people are in the cities.
A lot of people are in third world countries.
We take a lot of this for granted that we have these things.
I want to give a little pointer on how to make pesticide out of something that pretty
much everybody in any third world country will be able to get and have access to in
a pinch.
You can make these herbal solutions, these pesticides out of tobacco.
If you only have access to cigarette butts, you can make this pesticide.
I'm talking every third world country.
We know this tobacco thing is infiltrated every corner of the globe.
So you can make it out of collecting those cigarette butts, boiling them for five hours,
and dilute that solution 30 to one, and you got a pesticide that you can make anywhere
in the world practically.
You know, that was my very first introduction to anything natural in the garden.
When I was a kid, you know, I lived in Detroit.
My dad had a farm, or not a farm, he had a little garden plot in the backyard.
And I remember my dad, I saw him peeing into a mason jar.
And I'm like, the hell, dad?
You know, and he's like, Oh, you know that tobacco I've been soaking?
I'm like, yeah.
And because I remember he bought tobacco.
I'm like, what the hell are you buying tobacco for?
And ends up that he used this tobacco soaked, added with the urine, and then put it in a
sprayer bottle and sprayed and I thought it was like some kind of bizarre sorcery,
right?
And it isn't until you mention it now that I'm like, Oh my god, all the way back when
I was a kid, my dad was rocking this stuff, you know, as a total novice, right?
But he was doing it.
You are second generation natural farmer, Shango.
That's great.
All right.
So once we've identified these plants, we're essentially going to give them the same anaerobic
treatment that we talked about in the last set, right?
That's essentially, is that the same way that we're going to prepare these?
No, no, it's not.
We're going to make to make this pesticide, what we call the JADAM herbal solution.
It's even easier.
It's stupid easy.
You're going to basically fill up a big pot, or you can make this in your crock pot.
But if you're filling up a big pot, fill it at least halfway up with plant material, fill
the rest up with water.
The water's at least above the plant material.
I don't like to go all the way to the top because I don't want it to boil over.
But you put a lid on it.
This is going to help keep all the essential oils in it while it's decocting.
And you're going to bring it to a boil.
And then once it's boiling, you're going to turn it down to a simmer and let it simmer
for at least five hours.
And when this is done, you're going to leave that lid on the whole time.
That's going to help it from evaporating and it's going to keep it from those essential
oils escaping.
It'll be more potent if you cook it with the lid on.
So then when it's ready to jar up, you're basically going to take your jars.
It's best to use plastic heatproof bottles.
You're going to fill them up while the decoction is still hot off the stove.
Put the cap on it and turn that bottle on its side, and that's going to help sterilize
the bottle.
And you'll know if you had a failure in your sterilization because over the next few days,
that plastic bottle will inflate.
Like when you leave a plastic water bottle in the car and it heats up and it inflates.
That means there was some problem with the sterilization.
That batch went wrong.
Those microbes are killing themselves.
Throw that one out and try again.
But if this stuff survives, if your bottle didn't inflate, you've got a potent jadam
herbal solution there that you can dilute 30 to 1.
You want to use it up within one to two days of opening that container.
It goes bad.
This is why I tend to make it in smaller containers that I know I'll use up in a day or two.
Four ounces will make a gallon.
And yeah, that's your jadam herbal solution.
I make these out of single herbs, but lately I've been starting to combine herbs.
I just made one that was pennyroyal mint, rosemary, and oregano.
And I just made one that was wormwood, St. John's wort, and the oleander.
You know, the oleander is a plant that is used in landscaping all over.
It's probably planted all over your nearest town.
It's toxic to people and animals, but it makes a great pesticide.
You can use the leaves, the stems, the branches.
Just wear gloves because you don't want to get that liquid on any cuts into your bloodstream.
It's very toxic, but it'll mess those pests up bad.
Let's go into that bottling step a little bit more.
So let's say that I'm using rosemary, and I have broken up the rosemary, and I put it
in my pot, and I'm leaving like an inch of a lip so I don't boil over.
I'm putting the lid on so that I'm keeping as many of the essential terps and oils inside
of it.
And it's still probably making my house smell hella good.
So then when I'm done, I'm guessing that if I want the jar, in my example, I'm picturing
using mason jars versus the plastic bottles that you used in your example.
I'm assuming that I would want to filter it to get out the plant bits, and then pour it
into the mason jar while it's still hot, and then put on the two-piece lid.
And as it cools, it will create a vacuum, and it will suck in my loose lid so that it's
airtight.
And I would think that that might make it shelf-stable.
Is that true?
Yeah, that's how I do mine.
I jar them up in glass jars because I don't want to buy plastic.
And yeah, if it goes bad, that lid's going to pop up.
They'll store for up to a year at room temp, cool, dark room temp.
You can also keep them in the fridge, but I just store mine at room temp, and I'm using
up pesticide I made last summer right now.
And they make great gifts.
Oh, yeah.
So, all right.
So now that the hot stuff is in the mason jar, and it cools down, and we hear that magic
little dink from the other room, and we're like, hell yeah, we win.
I love that sound when we're canning vegetables.
And all that to get to this point here.
When we open it and we break the seal, I believe you said that we should use it within a day
or two.
And is that because all of the subtlety is oxidizing and changing?
They say the microbes are eating themselves, that they start attacking each other.
And I don't know if it's the microbes in the outer environment that are attacking the microbes
in the solution, but that's what they teach us in JDALM, is that you've got two days to
use it up.
So, this is why I know that on my farm, I'm usually spraying in two gallon increments.
I've got one garden I'm spraying usually two gallons, the other one I'm spraying two
gallons.
So, I like to make it in eight ounce bottles or 16 ounce bottles.
The eight ounce is going to do my two gallons, or I'll open a 16 ounce, and I'm going to
use the other half the next day.
Eight ounces in the two gallons, that sounds like it's a lot more of a ratio.
What are we spraying these at?
30 to one is the dilution rate.
You can spray them more concentrated if you use a foam gun, like you'd use to wash your
car with, that has a little reservoir to hold the soap.
If you're using some kind of wetting agent and a gun like that, you can spray them at
15 to one dilution rate.
And these herbal solutions work better with a wetting agent, whether that's a little bit
of a dish soap, an ounce per gallon of dish soap, or JDALM has a wetting agent that you
can make.
It's just a little more time-consumptive input to make.
Actually, let's go ahead and talk about that.
My buddy, Mindfully Rooted down San Diego, I think, he sent me a bottle of JWS, JDALM
wetting solution.
I was grateful for it because getting anything cool like this is cool, but I really only
know one use for a wetting agent, essentially a surfactant, which as far as I understand,
I've only ever used surfactants, which are often soaps.
When I have got a pest issue, I will spray whatever solution I'm using for that, mix
with a little bit of soap, which helps it stick to the leaf as far as I understand.
So why don't you talk a little bit about JDALM wetting solution and maybe some other uses
for it other than the obvious.
Sure.
Well, when we add a wetting agent to that pesticide, it really helps it to stick to
the pest.
It coats the pest.
They get caught up in these bubbles.
It just really coats the plant leaf surface.
So it gives a lot more efficacy to that spray.
How much?
How much?
If we're doing 30 to 1 with these pesticides, how much of the JWS do we want to add in there
too?
Probably an ounce a gallon.
I think they call for about an ounce a gallon.
They're probably calling that JWS because it's their own product, but if it's traditionally
the JDALM input, we call it JDALM wetting agent at JWA.
The JWA on its own is a very powerful pesticide.
I would suggest you try using that as a standalone pesticide because I bet you'd be surprised
at the results you get.
They recommend using it on its own, but also mixing it with any JDALM herbal solutions
or other pesticides as a wetting agent.
All right.
I follow that.
And you know what?
It's entirely possible that he wrote JWA on it and now I'm just saying it JWS.
I don't want to put that on him.
No, no worries.
That's awesome.
He's making these inputs and providing them for people.
All right.
So we understand what plants we want to source from our farm.
We understand that we're going to boil them instead of just letting them sit outside in
the sun.
We understand that we can bottle them up to use them ourselves and to give them as gifts.
That's all great as well.
Besides sprays, what other things can we do to discourage pests on the property?
For example, you said earlier we don't want to use the weed whacker as much because it
discourages beetles, right?
Which are our allies.
Are there things that we can do on our property to discourage pests that are more physical
like that that are not sprays?
Well, I want to bounce back really quick to the pesticides and just mention one more thing.
There's a way to make these pesticides that's even easier and it works for the most aromatic
of these herbs because sometimes when you boil them, you'll lose some of the aromatic
effects.
So plants like lavender and even the rosemary, they recommend put that in a five gallon bucket,
cut it up, fill it with water, cover it with the lid.
No leaf mold like when we're making the fertilizer, just water and plant material and let that
sit for two to four weeks and then that's your herbal solution.
It's essentially a cold extract and same thing, diluted at 30 to one.
So there are even easier ways to make this, it's just a little more time consuming.
I just wanted to mention that before we moved on.
Right on, that's good.
And while I'm mentioning things before we moved on, my buddy Johnny, Mindfully Rooted,
it does say JWA.
I'm the one who added the S so I don't want to throw Johnny under the bus.
Good job, Johnny.
All right, great.
So easy is good.
So back to the other question, which was, are there any physical things that we can
do to discourage pests on the property other than just spraying these discouragements?
You know, there's a lot of things we can do that are just going to improve plant health
and when you have a healthy plant, it's not attracting pests.
When that plant gets sick, it starts fermenting and exuding these sugars that are going to
attract pests.
So when you've got healthy plants, they're not sending a message, come break me down,
I'm at the end of my life cycle, I'm food.
They're just doing their thing.
So I talked earlier about the windbreaks and identifying wind sectors and we're in some
windy areas up here.
With a lot of these licensed cannabis farms, they made a lot of these farmers move their
grows away from the creeks and the riparian areas and the wet areas along the streams,
which meant a lot of people had to get moved up onto ridgetops where there was no water,
no streams.
And this put a lot of people in some really windy conditions that they were not used to.
And when you have a plant that's just being wind whipped all day, it's not transpiring,
it's not doing its normal functions.
It's not a healthy plant and it is going to be crying out for being put out of its misery
basically.
So that's something I really encourage people is how do we cut down on the wind in your
grow?
You want good airflow.
Good airflow is very different than your grows on a ridge and it being pounded by wind all
day.
So high winds, it's bad for your soil, it's drying out your soil.
I see a lot of people in plastic grow bags and these fabric pots, which soil temperatures
reach up into the 140s.
There's no biology living in your soil at that point.
Your plant is just trying to survive.
It's not even growing.
A lot of people would do better around here with a little shade in their gardens, with
some tree cover in their gardens or even growing under some shade cloth to get these temperatures
down a little bit because once your plant's in those temps, it's just trying to survive.
It's no longer growing.
I remember I was up enjoying a tour up at Lady Sativa over near Benbow and they find
themselves on the top of a mountain ridge and I learned a lot about slowing down water
leaving the property because of course, they're at the top of a mountain.
So that's a huge problem.
There's all of their water wants to run downhill.
But also you're right, the wind is just like ruthless up there and the views are great,
but the farming can be challenging.
And it comes back to your context.
If you're up on top of a windy ridge, maybe throwing a bunch of greenhouses up isn't the
best move.
Maybe that you're going to lose your covers every winter isn't the best move.
Make structures that are site appropriate and cultivation that's site appropriate.
Actually in the site appropriate part, when we did, and anybody who's interested in this,
there's a video I did about this on the YouTube channel.
But one of the things they do get is a lot of hella hot sun.
And so they actually built this garden that was all heavy rocks that they were pulling
out of the other parts of the farm.
And they made like this, more than a semicircle, let's say 280 degrees of a full circle.
And so during the day, these rocks were getting really hot.
And so that's where they were growing their longest term sativas so that they could kind
of use it as a heat sink, probably not a heat sink, but a heat gathering device.
So that these particular sativa plants were being able to grow longer.
And I think that's a really novel use of building your growing space for your unique parcel.
Yeah, that comes back to that permaculture principle of capture and store energy.
And I know Rio, the owner of Lady Sativa Farm, I've spent a lot of time up there, I actually
did their Dragonfly Earth Medicine certification for their farm.
I know Rio is a long time permaculture practitioner.
So to hear that he's got design in there where he's capturing that heat and that sun that's
hitting his property, and it's not just hitting the dirt, he's capturing it in those rocks.
So you can release that heat at night and on the cold days.
I mean, that is just capturing a resource that's already there.
It's genius.
Yeah, totally.
Shout out to Rio.
That was a really great tour.
And a lot of people just want to show you the flowers and we're like, ooh, weeds great.
I totally felt like I got an education in water sequestration just hanging out with him.
He's a good teacher.
He gets it.
Absolutely.
All right.
So let's hit on variety before we wrap this party up.
So when we were talking about the wildcrafting nutrition, you kept on bringing home the variety
of the nutrition and the variety of the plants we're going to be pulling from.
We want to use the diversity on our farm to help us.
Is this also the case when it comes to discouraging pests?
I'm assuming we want to put as many different types of fragrant oils on our plants as possible
because there's that many different pests.
Well, yeah.
And with the JADAM herbal solutions, it's recommended to alternate them.
As we've seen with these pests, you've got one product and you spray it for a round or
two, you might be able to hold the pests off.
But by round three, they've built up resilience.
And we've seen this here in the Emerald Triangle for decades where spider mites built up resistance
and then you had the russet mites come along and now you've got aphids.
And these bugs know how to evolve.
They're smart.
They've been around a lot, just as long as us, if not longer, and have survived through
some pretty gnarly stuff.
So yeah, it's all about having as much diversity on that farm as possible and to hit them with
as many different tools as possible.
So I like to make sure I always have at least three different JADAM herbal solutions made
at all times that I can alternate on a cloudy day.
I'm spraying one in the morning, I'm spraying a different one in the evening, and the next
morning I'm spraying that third one.
And I'm making sure that at least one of those is also good for powdery mildew.
So yeah, diversity, changing it up, having lots of plants in there.
If you walked in my garden right now, you'd see a lot of areas where I'm just letting
all the weeds go to flower.
I'm letting all the thistles go to flower.
There's tons of stuff that most people would have just weed whipped.
I'm letting it all go to flower and I've got tons of pollinators just naturally doing their
processes in my garden.
And I'm not dealing with any unbalanced outbreaks because everything is just well balanced.
And it really is really beautiful to see all of these flowers that would be invasives or
pests or just annoying to people when you look at them as weeds.
But after you get over that emotionally, it's really nice to see all of these, even dandelions
are totally beautiful and they need better PR.
So let's end the show with this.
One of the reasons that I originally started following you, Joey, and really enjoyed your
teaching online is that I really think that you get the heart of all of this, right?
Working within the system in ways that are beneficial to the system and to all the life
forms that live in the biological system.
I like to at least think that unless a parcel is particularly destroyed from industrial
presence or something, I like the idea that wherever the farmer's parcel is, their unique
holistic biome, the wholeness of their biome has everything growing in it that could bring
their property back into balance and dissuade the pests from the plants that they don't
want them on to allow them to be on plants that they do want them on.
I'd just like to hear you speak to that, to the idea of the wholeness of a farmer's biome
to as much of that as that you agree with.
Yeah, well, it really just comes back to mimicking nature.
When we mimic what we see in nature, we tap into that divine intelligence that has just
been present for eons.
When we work against that, we're swimming upstream.
We're paddling upstream.
If you want to make your garden easier, if you want to harness the powers of nature,
you've got to build these systems that mimic those processes.
I would just hope that people would take as much interest in these other plants, these
other allies as we do in cannabis.
I would hope that this cannabis would be the gateway drug into getting people to care more
about their food and what they're putting in their bodies.
Natural farming, permaculture, JADAM, K&F, these are all tools that can help us get closer
to nature.
It's just been really exciting to see this regenerative farming movement and the excitement
in the industry.
For me to see these old timers that have grown the way the grocery store told them for a
long time to embrace this stuff and say, oh man, this is how we grew in the 70s before
there was a grocery store.
We would gather up leaves out of the woods and throw it, mix it into our soil.
Those old hippies knew about that stuff.
When we start growing cannabis, that the microbes came from my land and the plants that fed
it came from my land and the bugs that protected it came from my land.
You want to talk about an appellation and a product that is unique to its origination,
to its source.
There's nothing more unique than that product.
There's nobody else that can reproduce that product.
That's unique to your biome, to your property, to your farm, to your experience.
I just want to encourage people to keep exploring that relationship to the plant, to nature,
to all these plants.
We have a biome.
We are our own little planet, our own little universe.
They're discovering that these microbes are in between the spaces, in between our DNA,
in between our DNA molecules.
We are actually more made up of microbes than we are of ourselves.
Just as we have to take care of and treat those microbes in the soil and feed them healthy
things and not poisons, we have to think of our bodies the same way and put healthy things
into our bodies, substances and food, nutrient-dense foods.
Because when these microbes are happy, we're happy.
Our soil's happy.
Our plants are happy.
When these microbes are unhappy because we're feeding them crap, we're feeding our soil crap,
we're feeding our bodies crap, our mood turns to crap.
Our health deteriorates.
The pests and the diseases and the parasites move in and they break it down.
And so the sooner we realize we are the same as nature, we are the same as the soil
and we're all one and we can start respecting our bodies, respecting this earth equally,
I think we can get in tune with nature and be a lot happier and healthier
and hopefully leave something behind for our children, grandchildren
and seven generations that'll be a beautiful place for them to live and carry this on.
Fabulous.
Hear, hear.
Well, Joey, thank you so much for sharing your heart and your passion and your experience
with us.
I clearly had my mind blown a few times today and I've gotten new paths that I want to take
and I'm sure that I am not the only one.
So thank you so much and I look forward to chatting with you again when I'm down your
way next.
Thank you so much, Shango.
Thank you so much, Shango.
Really enjoyed it.
So if you want to follow more and hear more from Joey Berger, the best way to do that
that's easy is you can go on Instagram and follow Joey at thehumbledlocal.
And I got to tell you, it is a especially good Instagram feed.
Not only does he share with you pictures of plants, which we all love, but he's very active
as teaching through his Instagram.
And so it's like being a part of a slow burn class or something.
I very much like it.
So that's Joey at thehumbledlocal on Instagram.
Second thing is the books that Joey mentioned, the Jadam books, there are links to those
books on the Shaping Fire website on the page for this episode.
So get easy links for them there.
I also want to plug Shaping Fire episode 63 with Suzanne the Bug Lady that we did entirely
about trap and banker plants.
So if you were intrigued by the trap and banker plants ideas that Joey was teaching, you can
hear a whole hour and 20 minutes of that from Suzanne.
And then also if you're in the California area or if you are open to a road trip or
a flight, I really encourage you to attend one of Joey's classes that he hosts there
at Heartwood Hub, the property that he was talking about in most of his examples today.
It's a permaculture demonstration property that he lives on, and they're also doing classes
there again now that COVID's over.
And the first of their classes was last week and was a huge success.
So all of those things and more you can find links to on the shapingfire.com website for
this episode.
You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the show at
shapingfire.com and wherever you get your podcasts.
If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it if you would leave a positive review of
the podcast wherever you download.
Your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too.
On the Shaping Fire website, you can also subscribe to the newsletter for insights into
the latest cannabis news, exclusive videos, and giveaways.
On the Shaping Fire website, you will also find transcripts of today's podcast as well.
Be sure to follow on Instagram for all original content not found on the podcast.
That's at shapingfire and at shangolos on Instagram.
Be sure to check out the Shaping Fire YouTube channel for exclusive interviews, farm tours,
and cannabis lectures.
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire.
I've been your host, Shango Los.
