The popularity of psilocybin mushrooms has exploded in the last few years. Not only are
laws relaxing in many cities across the country, but cultivation best practices are being codified
and shared online like never before. Using mushrooms at different doses makes for very
different experiences. A microdose is intended that you don't feel it at all, while a half
to a full gram makes for a fun day of exploration, and of course you can keep going up in dosage
from there to have a very powerful human experience. Anywhere along this range of dosing, though,
can change the trajectory of your life because mushrooms have such a profound impact on brain
function. But we really don't know why, and isn't that odd? Mushrooms have been used by
humans since the beginning of recorded history, and yet they have been taboo and barred from
research in the modern scientific era. But happily, those challenges to research are
coming down. This isn't to say that we know nothing about how mushrooms function, it's
just that most hallucinogenic mushroom research has not been approved up until now, and scientists
who were doing the research during the dark days were shunned if they talked about it.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, business, and technique efficiently and with
good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter. We'll send you new podcast
episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox, along with commentary on a
couple of the most important news items from the week, and videos too. Don't rely on social
media to let you know when a new episode is published. Sign up for the updates to make
sure you don't miss an episode. Also, we're giving away very cool prizes to folks who
are signed up to receive the newsletter. There's nothing else you need to do to win except
receive that newsletter, so go to shapingfire.com to sign up for the newsletter and be entered
into this month's and all future newsletter prize drawings.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I'm your host, Shango Lose.
Today my guest is neuropharmacologist, Miyabi Shields, PhD. Dr. Shields is co-founder of
Real Isolates, which, ironically, focuses on the importance of secondary plant components
and synergistic cannabis blends, so essentially whole plant medicine. Miyabi received their
PhD in Pharmaceutical Sciences, focusing on the biochemistry of the endocannabinoid system
from Northeastern University in 2018. Miyabi has authored or co-authored six peer-reviewed
publications and presently has a patent under review for a novel fungus and plant extraction
method. Miyabi also has a substantial list of honors and awards, including a 2016 International
Cannabinoid Research Society Pre-doctoral Research Award. Their TikTok channel, at Miyabi
PhD, has 180,000 followers and is where I first met Miyabi.
Today's episode is really special. I have not found this information available anywhere
else. During the first set, we will describe the interrelated body systems that are stimulated
by psilocin and how these systems interact at a chemical level. The second set is all
about dosing thresholds and the mechanics of tolerance. And during the third set, we
focus on specific applications for this knowledge and how to effectively use psilocybin mushrooms
to improve your health and life.
Welcome back to Shaping Fire, Miyabi.
I'm so excited to be here today.
I'm, you know, it's really gotten to be fun to have you back a few times and we clearly
get along and chat so well. I've gotten to the point where I'm not, you know, I mean,
I still get nervous before I record most of these shows because I want to get it right,
you know, but I'm so comfortable with you and we have such an easy time chatting. Like,
I was just excited to get together and chat with you today. There was not the kind of
nervous anxiety. So, I'm stoked that we've gotten to that point.
Totally. I feel like we just have so much in common and in what we're interested in.
And I'm really, really also just excited to touch on these topics. You know, I'm super
passionate about molecular pharmacology and I think these two things don't often get talked
about together and I'm excited to dive into that.
Right on. So, I think we should start this show off with a little preempt because, you know,
you and I came up with the idea for this show from us just chatting as now friends. And we're
gonna be going back and forth between, you know, historical scientific papers, new scientific
papers, and I guess what I'd call like informed conjecture on your part because you're a
pharmacologist. You're one of the experts in the field in this area. And some of the stuff that
you're gonna say today is, you know, we haven't been allowed to study yet. And I think it's
important for people to understand that, you know, you're qualified to make these educated guesses,
but you're gonna kind of let us know where the hard science ends and your conjecture begins,
right?
Definitely. I mean, we are gonna be entering into a space of abstract theory, which is that we know
about these systems. And we know like certain facts about how the systems interact with one
another. But we don't know like how that could directly be extrapolated into the human brain,
because the human brain is so complex. At the same time, we have all of this information from
the general public and people who have reported and written and shared all of these experiences,
activating one or both of these systems. And so we're going to be like kind of piecing through
the big gap between those two spaces.
Right on. Cool. So with that said, let's get right into it. So I understand that when we consume
a psilocybin mushroom, or, you know, we might call it a psilocybe mushroom if we want to talk about,
you know, the species, but that's a mushroom that has psilocybin, the chemical in it. So a
psilocybe mushroom has psilocybin in it. And once it's in the human body, it's not actually the
psilocybin, which creates the reaction in the human body. It's actually psilocin. And so a
psilocybe mushroom has psilocybin in it, which our body converts to psilocin. And so it's the psilocin
that's the active ingredient in the end for us. So would you explain that process? Because I've
never actually heard it explained clearly how our body changes the psilocybin into this psilocin.
So it's actually really similar. It's pretty similar to decarbing cannabis. The difference
is that our body is very efficient at changing psilocybin into psilocin. And basically,
the molecule psilocybin has a phosphate group on it. And a phosphate group is this like,
very negatively charged, like bulky piece of the molecule. And that group does a couple things.
It prevents it from easily crossing into the brain. It also prevents it from binding to the
receptors. And all of the effects are felt when a molecule is able to bind and activate a receptor.
So that phosphate group changes the shape of the molecule, right? It's this big, bulky, negatively
charged, like piece on the edge of it. And so psilocybin is not active. But our body contains
an enzyme. An enzyme is like a little machine that does a chemical reaction. And our body takes
psilocybin and turns it into psilocin by taking away that phosphate group and leaving behind just
an oxygen and a hydrogen or a hydroxyl group. And that's what makes it active. So psilocybin is
actually what would be called a prodrug. In pharmaceutical sciences, there are quite a
few prodrugs, actually. I believe aspirin is an example of a prodrug, which is something that goes
into your body, and then becomes activated by the body. So it's just like a different class
of molecules, and they're not active on their own. They become active when our body either,
in this case, takes off that phosphate group and then removes that big, bulky, negative charge and
allows it to activate the receptors. Okay, so once our body has removed that group,
and it becomes this more, I don't know, digestible, or that's probably a bad choice of words, but
a usable psilocin that I had not heard that pronunciation of it. I'll start using that.
What does it go and bind with? Because the other times you've been here,
when we've been doing the endocannabinoid mechanics series, we're always talking about
the endocannabinoid system, right? And we're going to talk more about the endocannabinoid
system in second set. But what is this psilocin molecule looking for to connect with?
Also, quickly, I don't know that that pronunciation is right or wrong. I think it's
kind of like tomato, tomato. And people prefer to pronounce things the way that, in my opinion,
some of these things are just pronounced the way that you've heard other people pronounce them.
But back to your question, what do they activate? So they activate the serotonin system and serotonin
system receptors. There are so many of these. And if you have ever seen the molecule, it is
really, really similar to serotonin. Serotonin is a tryptamine. It's in a class of molecules
that is created from the amino acid tryptophan. And they have a very distinctive shape to them.
And psilocin is almost identical to serotonin. They're very, very similar. And so what you were
saying before, instead of calling it like digestible, what I would say is that psilocin
is a puzzle piece that fits into the puzzle better after the phosphate group has been removed.
Because it's trying to fit into the same spot on the receptors as serotonin. And it's the
similarity in those shapes that allows it to bind to it. So psilocin, psilocybin doesn't bind very
well to any of the receptors, as we mentioned before, it doesn't fit. But psilocin binds really
well to many of the serotonin receptors. I've heard it been called a panagonist before, pan
meaning everything, right? But it doesn't bind equally to all of those serotonin receptors. It
does favor some over the other, specifically in terms of like psychedelic psychoactive effects.
It's been linked mostly to the serotonin 2A receptor. It's a sub receptor type. I believe
there are 18. There's quite a few different types of serotonin receptors. We don't have data for
every single subtype of receptor on psilocin. And I think the only one that I saw that it does
not bind well to is the serotonin 3 subtype receptor. And that receptor is actually a
completely different type of switch. If you imagine these receptors are like on and off switches
in the body that start all of these domino effects, there are these different types of
switches, right? Like I guess if I'm going with this metaphor, there's like a regular light switch
that you see. There's like a dimmer switch. There are like those metallic on and off switches.
There's switches that are just buttons that you press on and off. And the serotonin 3 receptor
is a different subtype than all of the others. And I think that's in my opinion, probably why
it doesn't bind as well to psilocin. But in terms of the activation, otherwise, it seems like
psilocin activates almost all of the other serotonin system receptor subtypes, which means
that it mimics serotonin in the brain. It's interesting too, if it's a panagonist,
and to use your light switch example, it kind of makes me think of like when you go into
like a big auditorium or something, you'll see as you enter, you know, often there'll be like a
string of like seven or eight light switches for like different parts of the hall, right?
And I imagine psilocin just showing up in the human brain going,
let's party and just like flicking them all on, you know? Is the serotonin
receptor the only variety of receptor that psilocin is connecting to? I mean, as we know,
when you take hallucinogenic mushrooms, your brain just like lights up, right? We know it as a
first-person experience, but we also know that when they put people in MRIs when they're using
it or similar, and people's brains are just like lit up. Are there other types of receptors that
accept psilocin as well, or is it mostly just in the serotonin group?
So, from what I've read, it's mostly just in the serotonin group, but the fact that it's
all of the serotonin subtypes is what makes it very, very unique to that activity. I think
here's another thing that I'm unsure about is, so a lot of the literature in the scientific,
the previous scientific literature focuses on serotonin. I'm not sure that every receptor
subtype has actually been tested because often you only see what you're looking for,
and I'm not positive that it's been, you know, ruled out that it wouldn't interact with other
receptors. I think the only one I know for certain that has been ruled out that I saw
was the dopamine D2 receptor because that's one key difference between serotonin and LSD is that
LSD does activate the D2 receptor, and sorry, not serotonin. Psilocybin and psilocin do not
activate the dopamine system, whereas LSD does activate that system partially. So, that's the
only one that I know that I can speak to for certain that hasn't been, like, ruled out,
but I think that in terms of like, are there other, it's kind of a trick question because
are there other things that are in the mushrooms that could be activating other systems?
That is very, very possible and also unexplored.
Dr. John Corey All right. So,
because you study the serotonin system so intimately, you've got a different perspective
than just about everybody else, and I would like to hear your thoughts on how rare and
neat it is that this one molecule lights up so many serotonin receptors at the same time, right?
Because by you saying that, it suggests to me that most other molecules would not light up so
many of the different serotonin receptors. Like, how cool is that? Like, talk to us about, like,
the rarity of that and why mushrooms are unique because of that.
Dr. Jennifer Lee So, I think the most, I think one of the
most interesting things is this contrast from my background in pharmaceutical sciences. It's the
contrast of, you know, synthetic pharmaceuticals that target the serotonin system. All of them
kind of are structured around avoiding the serotonin 2 receptor family because they're
trying to, like, avoid the effects. And it's, it is rare. In terms of how strongly it activates it,
it's rare. I know that there are other natural products out there and other naturally occurring
molecules that do work upon the serotonin system, but they don't do it with such, like,
veracity or potency. Like, it's a very potent interaction. And the reason for that is because
it's very, very similar to serotonin. And another thing that's interesting about psilocybin that I've
always wondered is its purpose. I guess I've always just wondered about its original purpose
in the mushrooms because it clearly must be doing something for them as well. And it's,
this is something that's, like, far outside. But in terms of natural products, you know,
these molecules in these plants and in these fungus, they are serving a purpose for those
living plants and living funguses as well. And there's this big, there's this big, like,
homology or similarity between all of those molecules in the plants and in funguses and
in bacteria and in other living things. And then in all of the molecules, like, inside us, inside
our brains and bodies and, like, circulating around in our blood causing signaling systems
and immune system responses. And I think it's amazing that living things produce molecules
that are so comparable and so active on the human systems. And that's just, it's always been really
magical to me. It's been a magical thing with cannabis and the endocannabinoid system. And I
think it's magical with the serotonergic as well. I think there's an evolutionary link there.
Yeah, I would have to agree with that. And, you know, you calling it magical
is one of the least scientific things I've ever heard you say. But it's also,
it's also, like, really true, right? I mean, there are reasons why humans have put mushrooms on a
spiritual, magical, otherworldly pedestal because the effects that it has on the human brain
are, like, literally mind-blowing, right? And so, and it's beyond our present
scientific knowledge, though, we're getting able to research more of it now. But historically,
like, if you don't know what's how something functions, it's magic, right? And so,
that's not really an inaccurate term.
No, and there's, and it's also not inaccurate to say that there is still so much unknown
left in the world, even with the amount of science that we have. And I love science. I'm, you know,
science is my passion. But one of the things that I learned from it is just this giant, you know,
giant unknown that is still there. And in terms of, like, spirituality and that level of unknown
and that level of faith, we're not out of place yet where we actually can say we have a big
understanding of it. And in the research on psychedelics, they use this word sometimes,
ineffable, which means, like, you can't describe it in words, I believe is the definition.
And that is something that I think is really fascinating about specifically the serotonin
system, also the endocannabinoid system and how they work together, but specifically linked to
serotonergic psychedelic experiences, is that it can create feelings and experiences that are
ineffable. They're mystic and magic and spiritual and deep. And we have yet to be able, because we
can't describe them because they're ineffable, it's very, very difficult to study them.
But the fact that that comes from these molecules that are also from a living thing, part of this
planet is just, it is magical. And yeah, I love describing science that way. And I think it seems
like a hypocritical, like, maybe not hypocritical, but it seems to be like it would be in contrast to
itself. But I've always said that, in terms of merging my scientific passion with my spiritual
beliefs, I've always said that both science and spirituality are ways of embracing and
understanding this, like, giant unknown in the universe. And there's just so much unknown. And
I think that's one of the things that exploring and I'm so excited to see, as we can, like,
open up research and explore these, you know, this interaction with the serotonin system more,
I'm excited to see what we find. And I wouldn't be surprised if we don't just find even more unknown.
Jared Amen. And I'm going to go one more step into this unknown magical spiritual before we
get back to the hard science. And that is, you know, this idea of an ineffable experience comes
up all the time when talking about DMT, dimethyltryptamine. The experiences that humans
have on significant doses of that drug are so beyond human regular experience that it's really
cool that whole new descriptors have evolved when talking about DMT and the experience and how it
changes and rewires the human brain. It demands the development of first new vocabulary to decide
to describe it so that humans can share their experiences. And then once it gets in the hands
of like scientific researchers like you, then that kind of potentially sloppy, new magical
vocabulary that people use to describe it then demands new specific scientific vocabulary and
understanding to describe it at a scientific level. And I think that this kind of growth of
the ineffable drug experience becoming more malleable by humans where we can like talk about
them and understand them more. I think that we are right at the front of this huge explosion of
this kind of learning by humans everywhere, because we're all getting easier access to
these plant medicines and scientists are more encouraged to research them now for whatever
reasons.
Yeah, it's just so much more available and there's so much more communication in the community that
helps. I mean, I think it's incredible that so many people can have such similar experiences.
Also, DMT is very, very similar molecule to psilocin. They are almost identical, because DMT
is almost identical to serotonin and they're very similar in that way. But what I was describing
earlier with psilocybin turning into psilocin, when you remove a phosphate group and you leave a
hydroxyl group, just the OH, if you were to remove that hydroxyl group, that would be DMT.
And they're incredibly similar molecules, but then they have these different effects. And then the
community and what I was mentioning earlier about how we have all of this information from the
community and from people who are actively, you know, using these molecules and then reporting
on their experiences and they're comparable, they're similar experiences. And that ineffable
experience or that mysticism experience, it's also given a third name in scientific literature
called oceanic boundlessness. And that, you know, that entire experience is linked to actually
better outcomes, like better health outcomes. And it's, to me, super interesting, because
essentially, I equate that in some way, this is, like, my understanding of it is that it's equated
to me with, like, a spiritual wellness or something that is ineffable. It's not something that we're
quantifying right now. But we can say that if you have that mystical ineffable experience,
or if you have something like that, that there is a significant chance that it increases your
health outcome, which is a physical, quantitative response. And so, that is just a piece down this
road of this whole, like, mind-body connection that I think, you know, is under-researched.
I would say even in all the things that I've read, and this is one of my things that I'm super
passionate about, we're just scratching the surface on understanding the connection between
our mind, our bodies, and then how we view that connection to the world and the rest of,
like, the life that's on this planet. Beautiful. I love how you put that.
All right. So, let's bring us back in for, back to the harder science. That was a good-
All right, away from the tangent.
That was a good tangent. So, let's bring it back. So, during the endocannabinoid mechanics
series that we've been doing together, you mentioned kind of as a passing thought that
mushrooms interact with the endocannabinoid system, too, which was originally what gave
me the idea for this episode. You've already explained to us very clearly how the psilocin
molecule lights up so many of the serotonin receptors after that particular group is
stripped off it. I'm curious how the psilocin molecule interacts with the endocannabinoid
system as well. So, there's two different ways, and it's like an indirect way. So, the first one
is that the 2A, the serotonin 2A receptor, which is the one that's been linked to
the psychedelic experiences, like, that receptor, when you activate it, actually leads to an
increase in endocannabinoids. That's one of the downstream effects of activating this receptor.
And so, in the first way, you're increasing your level of endocannabinoids, like, after you take
psilocybin, because it activates these receptors, and that's part of what those receptors do.
The next way is a little bit more complicated, and it has to do with the fact that we more
recently have learned that these receptors are not operating by themselves. So, when I say,
like, the serotonin 5HT2A receptor, you know, previously to, let's say, like, 10 years ago,
we were all assuming that that receptor kind of operated by itself, or it operated with another
version of the same receptor, like serotonin and serotonin. And it was only more recently that
we've discovered that these receptors can actually bind to another receptor in a different system,
and that that will change the way that it signals. And not much is known in terms of how it changes
this signaling and what the downstream effects of this are, but what is known is that the serotonin
5HT2A receptor does bind to the CB1 receptor, which is the main endocannabinoid system receptor,
and the receptor that's responsible for the therapeutic effects or most of the therapeutic
effects of cannabis. And so, that piece of it is less understood, but is there. There is some
population in the brain of serotonin 2A receptors that when they are being activated by cellulose
and will probably be attached to a CB1 receptor, at least in part, like they exist together in
the brain cells, and will come together and operate together. And when those two receptors
are operating together, their signaling can be altered, and we don't really have a great
tangible grasp on how and what that does, but we do know that it affects the endocannabinoid system
because the CB1 receptor is the main receptor for the endocannabinoid system.
Okay. Let's take one step back for a moment. I think I probably should have started the set with
this, but would you give just like an easy thumbnail explanation of what the serotonin
system is in the human body for folks who may not be familiar with it?
Okay, sure. Yeah. The serotonin system is one of the best known neurotransmitter signaling systems
in the brain and in the body. We talk a lot about serotonin making you happy. I think that's usually
one of the main associations that people have with it, but serotonin is a molecule,
and the serotonin system, just like the endocannabinoid system, is made up of the
receptors and the enzymes that work upon the serotonin molecule. And serotonin controls a lot
of very, very important functions. And this is where my interest originally came to the table,
is that the serotonin system and the endocannabinoid system actually have a huge
overlap in the things that they control and how they work together, and they're localized in some
of the similar areas in how they modify this control. One of the most important ones being
like the brain and the gut or the GI tract interaction. So serotonin, just like the
endocannabinoids, is a signaling molecule, and the system itself is all over your body and controls
a huge number of things. That's why there's so many different receptors, and that's why they are
you know, expressed in different parts of the brain and the body that help to regulate these
different processes.
Jared Polin So that sets up my next question great,
because I was going to follow up with, you know, are the serotonin system and the endocannabinoid
system like standing next to each other at equal levels of complexity and control, or
does the endocannabinoid system control slash balance the serotonin system? Because when we
talk about the endocannabinoid system, we're always talking about how it's the
body's natural thermostat. And if you've got a system that's running hot, it'll cool it down.
And if it's running, if it's sluggish, it'll pick it up. Is the serotonin cycle,
is the serotonin system, one of the systems the endocannabinoid system modulates? Or are they
like two different cooks in the kitchen? It sounds like there's a lot of overlap,
so I'm not really sure how you're gonna answer that.
Dr. Jennifer Lixton Yeah, it's a complicated answer. I
usually say that it's a relationship. The best metaphor I have for it is probably marriage. I
think it's like a marriage. They both have things that they take care of on their own and together,
but neither one of them almost ever operates without some form of feedback from the other
system. So, like for an example of this is I mentioned earlier, if you activate the 2A,
the serotonin 2A receptor, you end up with elevated levels of endocannabinoids. So, that's
an example of the serotonin system modifying the endocannabinoid system. On the flip side,
the endocannabinoid system is capable of modifying levels of serotonin, is capable of modifying the
density of the serotonin receptors, so it goes the other direction. And they fulfill very different
roles while they are also modifying the same overall purpose in the body. So, they work
together sometimes, they work against each other other times, and it's an incredibly complicated
dance, I think. Dr. Justin Marchegiani All right. So, we're
talking about the complexity between these two systems and how they're getting turned on by
psilocin. And you know, we're usually talking about the endocannabinoid system and whole plant
medicine, right? Because both you and I are very much whole plant cannabis advocates. And I know
that mushrooms have their own terpenes. Are there reasons to make sure that we take a whole mushroom
or an infused tea instead of isolated psilocybin or yeah, they're probably psilocybin crystals?
Because like crystallized psilocybin is becoming much more available as people have made best
practices for that extraction process. And I know that a lot of people tend to want to avoid eating
the flesh of the mushroom because it upsets a lot of people's stomachs. And so like some people
believe that you should eat the whole mushroom. Some people say, you know, since it's all water
soluble, you do it in an infused tea and then you can leave the flesh of the mushroom, you know,
in the strainer. And then some people just go for the crystal because they see it to be more of a
pure, easier on the stomach experience. And I don't think there's been a whole lot of actual
research on this yet, except for like, you know, individual psychonauts doing it. But as far as
like the brain chemistry part of it, you know, is there a justification for whole plant mushroom?
I think that there is. But I also, you know, there's not a lot of research on the different
molecules that are in the different strains of these mushrooms, or even just in the main strains.
So in terms of like the active compounds, yes, like psilocybin is the active compound in the
mushrooms, it's been identified. But there's going to be a lot of other things present in the actual
living mushroom. And I think that like the difference between like the psilocybin,
there's a pretty much a perfect analogy here between that and whole full spectrum cannabis
products. And like, say, like a rosin press or something that is like extracted, partially
purified, versus then like isolate or distillate. And I think, you know, similar to cannabis,
I think that there are advantages and disadvantages to each, each version, there are
certainly advantages to isolated forms of things, because, for one, it's reproducible, right? Like,
as opposed to whenever you have a living, whenever you have a living thing producing, you know, a
large number of products, there is the chance that they will, it's probable that you would get
different effects. But I would argue that that's also a positive. Once you are once you can
understand it, which we are, I think, scratching the surface of, of doing that. I do know that
there are just so many things in all mushrooms, not just psilocybin mushrooms that are worth
investigating that haven't yet. There are tons of like, different types besides even like its own
terpenes. Actually, I recently read a paper where they found molecules and mushrooms that activate
the endocannabinoid system, which makes them cannabinoids. These are not psilocybin mushrooms,
they're different mushrooms. But it's, it's interesting, because it's, it could exist in
the psilocybin mushrooms as well, because we don't actually have a ton of information on on what that
what that looks like and on isolating those compounds, and then testing them against the
receptors. The order of operations would go first, like taking everything out of the mushrooms,
and then kind of separating them out into like types of molecules, and then like how many of
them are present, and then testing those individually against each of the receptors to
see what is going on. And I haven't actually seen a ton of information on the smaller,
what would be like the rare molecules that are that are in the mushrooms. But there's certainly
many, many that are there, and probably many that have yet to be investigated, or even discovered.
What a great time to be a, you know, a college or, or post, postgraduate student who is both a
psychonaut and a scientist. Like I remember back in school, you know, there were there were like,
the the odd folks who you knew were doing drug stuff in the lab when I was in school.
But it was very shush, shush, and very frowned upon, and the school could not find out. But now
there's like full on programs. What a great time to be a scientist psychonaut. Like all this stuff
is open to folks, and we don't know it yet. And yet now we're allowed to research it.
I think you just can't deny, you can't deny that there is therapeutic benefit, because there's,
there's therapeutic benefit. And there's also, you know, it's the same thing that happened,
the revolution with cannabis, I really think helped pave the way for this to occur. It's like,
something that was so stigmatized, and that still is, and I think that we still have work to do.
But, you know, it has really changed. The culture around cannabis has really changed. And it's been
a lot of work by a lot of people who've come well before me, and you're one of them, and
has done a lot of work in changing this stigma for the better. And I think that that's paved the
way, because we are all able to see now, or a larger population is able to see like, wow, there's
a lot of therapeutic benefit that has yet to be explored. Everyone's more open, I think, to that.
And I think it's really, really exciting, because you can't deny that there's therapeutic benefit
here. And that understanding it will only help us to like, reduce the risk of the negative effects.
Right on. Fantastic. All right. So, let's wrap this up and go to commercial. During the second
set, when we come back, we are going to talk about the thresholds for different dosages for mushrooms,
and how that impacts the mechanics of the brains at different thresholds.
You are listening to Shaping Fire, and my guest today is pharmacologist, Miyabi Shields.
There are a lot of good people launching new businesses in cannabis, psilocybin,
and other psychedelics. And it's a very strange time for us. In the same moment that psilocybin
mushrooms are illegal at the federal level, they are becoming increasingly legal in states across
the country. These businesses leading the way into the future of plant medicines require specialized
legal representation by attorneys who have depth not only in litigation, mergers, and acquisitions,
but also in psychedelic and other plant medicines. Greenlight Law Group has been
empowering cannabis businesses since 2014. And as the market has diversified into psilocybin
and other plant medicines, Greenlight has been right there evolving with their diverse clients
to provide legal expertise with a high level of legal acumen, creative strategy, and precision
that comes with an intimate and specific understanding of both business law and plant
medicine. If you are a business owner trying to navigate the layered local and national
drug laws on your own, you are at risk of fumbling. These confusing and quickly changing
laws complicate everything. Greenlight Law Group is ready to help you when hit with a lawsuit,
or because you were shafted by a vendor or business partner, or simply because you want
to stay legal and could use some preventative guidance before cultivating a controlled
substance as an entrepreneur. Greenlight Law Group is a collection of folks who care profoundly
about their work, and I know this is true because I know the folks from Greenlight.
There is a huge difference between a big legal firm who has decided to start representing a few
drug companies, versus working with a collection of high integrity, passionate lawyers who are
personally interested in new plant medicines and firmly believe in their power to heal.
Contact Greenlight Law Group today and learn more about the services they can offer your
industry-leading cannabis or psychedelics company. That's Greenlight Law Group at greenlightlawgroup.com
For 20 years, Humboldt Seed Company has been family-owned in providing reliable,
high-yielding seeds originating in Northern California. While the current trend is to slap
one super male into a line of hype strains, Humboldt Seed Company continues to breed with
precision and care by doing large sifts and back-crosses to emphasize the absolute best
traits that a line has to offer. This kind of breeding takes time, talent, and space to work.
No matter what kind of aroma you are particularly into, Humboldt Seed will likely have something
you'll love. If you love fruit, you can choose from banana, mango, apricot, papaya, blueberry,
blood orange, melon, and lemons across their various strains. They have all-gas, glue,
and classic sour diesel lines as well. Of course, there are the heritage California strains like OG
Kush, Jack Herr, and Headband. And their award-winning Blueberry Muffin is one that delights
just about everybody's palate, especially when concentrated. Humboldt Seed Company is proud to
bring to market the infamous freak show Cultivar II, which has a great THC high but looks so much
like a fern that some folks can't even identify it as cannabis. It's a plant that really needs to
be seen to be believed. If you're looking for well-balanced CBD seeds, Humboldt Seed Company
can turn you on to CBD strains that actually have flavor like the dill and pepper terpenes of Willie
G's Lebanese Landrace. Whether you are looking for regular, feminized, or autoflowers, Humboldt
Seed Company has the gear to make this your best growing cycle ever. Visit humboldtseedcompany.com
today to check out their line of vigorous genetics, download their catalog, and find out where you can
pick them up. You can also check out their Instagram at thehumboldtseedcompany to check
out their gorgeous flowers and the extraordinary freak show plant. Humboldt Seed Company. Let them
know Shango sent you. Sometimes the topics I want to share with you are far too brief for an entire
Shaping Fire episode. In those instances, I post them to Instagram. I invite you to follow my two
Instagram profiles and participate online. The Shaping Fire Instagram has follow-up posts to
Shaping Fire episodes, growing and processing best practices, product trials, and of course,
gorgeous flower photos. The Shango Los Instagram follows my travels on cannabis garden tours,
my successes and failures in my own garden, insights and best practices from personal
grows everywhere, and always gorgeous flower photos. On both profiles, the emphasis is on
sharing what I've learned in a way that you can replicate it in your own garden, your own hash lab,
or for your own cannabinopathic health. So I encourage you to follow at Shaping Fire
and at Shango Los and join our online community on Instagram. Welcome back. You are listening to
Shaping Fire. I am your host, Shango Los, and my guest today is pharmacologist, Miyabi Shields.
So in the second set, we're going to be talking a lot more about specific dosing and thresholds
for dosing. And so we're going to start off by defining some of these terms we're going to be
using. If you just simply Google, you know, mushroom dosage chart, you'll find a lot of
different representations of this chart. And you know, there's a little bit of variability,
but generally, the doses we're going to be talking about today fall into five different categories.
The first is the micro dose. And while it's true that, you know, how much is the right micro dose
for you is something that you need to work out for yourself. Generally speaking, people discuss
it as being 0.1 gram of the mushroom itself. And you know, I prefer 0.08. Some other people may,
you know, have their own number. But generally, when we're talking about a micro dose,
we're talking about 0.1. Then there is a term I actually learned from Miyabi when we were prepping
for this, which is a museum dose, which is a little bit more than a micro dose. You're actually
looking to have, you know, a little bit more going on in your head, which is going to be about more
like 0.5 of a gram. So about a half gram there. And then there is the mini dose. And the mini
dose is more like one to two grams. So you're definitely going to get some, you know, psychoactive
activity, but you can probably still be around people. But then there's the macro dose, which
is going to be anywhere between three to four grams generally. And at that point, you're going
to be having a significant response. You know, you're probably going to be more likely to avoid
people. And you'll be seeing, you know, sacred geometry and nature. And you're putting together
a whole bunch of things. And, you know, often people can tell that you're tripping by this
point. And then above the macro, above three to four grams, you know, above four grams, you know,
people go five, six, seven grams, sometimes more, which is epic. And these are generally called
these like heroic doses or God-seeing doses, something like that. So you can get yourself
more familiar with this scale by simply, you know, Googling mushroom dosage chart. But those are the
general, that's the vocabulary that we're going to be using today. All right. With that said,
so, Miyabi, like, why do we often experience permanent or at least, you know, longish term,
temporary changes to ourselves after taking mushrooms? Because we have the experience
during that, the, after we take it, right? But it feels like things change for us for a while. And
there's like this afterglow. And then eventually it feels like certain attributes wear off,
but certain learning stays. So, I'm kind of wondering if there's like a half-life
for a mushroom experience as far as like the neurology goes.
So, I think in terms of the after effects or the after glow effects, I think in my opinion,
those are directly linked to molecules or effects that the, that the psilocybin molecules had that
are still in your system actively in terms of the more longer term changes and effects that
people can feel. I think that's a, that's a different, that's a different piece, but what
both of them kind of point to in what's unique about the serotonergic and activating the serotonergic
system seems to be this disruption in what would be like the default pathway. And all of us have,
like, we all have a ton of subconscious default brain activity that we're going through and that
our brain just does automatically for us. And we can try to consciously think of things from
different perspectives. But I mean, I think most of us have had a situation in our lives where we've
thought through something a million different ways and we can't seem to find a way through,
right? Or we can't approach the problem from any more ways than we're aware of. And a piece of that
comes from our brain being stuck in some of these like similar pathways. And so, one of the reasons
why I think that there are these lasting effects has to do with just the disruption of that pattern,
the disruption of the same patterns happening over and over and over again, and the creation
of new patterns. And sometimes I think that in terms of like an after effect, and some of them
staying or some of them leaving, it could have to do with these pathways still being freshly
activated. There's a saying that neurons or so neurons or brain cells, but brain cells that fire
together will wire together. And when a brain cell is activated, and it activates another brain cell,
and it makes this like new circuitry or this new path, there are actual physical and chemical
reactions between those two brain cells that facilitate them firing again. And it isn't until
they are kind of weeded out that they stop firing. And I think that when you are activating your
serotonin system, you know, with mushrooms, and as we mentioned in the first set, it's a pan agonism,
or it's an activation of all different types of serotonin receptors all over the brain, you end up
creating a lot of new pathways or a lot of new signaling systems, and you disrupt this, this
default. I've heard it described as a I think it's called the default network or default mode. I've
heard it described that way. In terms of disrupting that you're kind of taking your brain out of that,
that routine and like showing your brain or like facilitating your brain going down these other
pathways that are new avenues to approach things and new perspectives. So that's one piece of it.
And then the other piece, I think, is something that we touched on a little bit earlier, which is
mysticism or oceanic boundlessness and or at the higher doses and thresholds we were talking about
changes in your perception of yourself or your ego, usually called ego death, right, or ego
disillusion, and changing the way that you perceive yourself and your identity and your
place in the world, and how that can have a huge lasting effect on the on your perspective and how
you approach like the rest of your life. So I'm not sure if that was too broad of an answer for
your question.
No, that was that was that was good. But I'm also going to follow up with something very specific,
right? So so taken that as being true, would you describe what what is happening at a very specific
biological chemical level when we all talk about these, you know, mushrooms help create new neural
paths and mushrooms help deepen your neural paths? What does that mean? In mechanically in
the brain like that, that's that's the storytelling way of saying it. What's the specific chemical way
of saying that?
So this, the chemical way of saying it is that if you imagine like your brain is like a network,
right, like your brain is a network of transportation, and things are going to and from,
you know, the stronger and more often so the more often like two brain cells will fire together,
the stronger that connection will be. And in terms of the the biology and the chemistry of that,
it actually strengthens it in terms of like, it will physically create proteins that will link
themselves together that are like little Velcro proteins, it will become a bigger and stronger,
like surface area or synapse like area, there are multiple ways that your body can make it so that
that connection happens easier. It's faster and easier. It's like the equivalent, I would say of
like having a dirt road versus like a freeway, or a through way where there's just like tons of lanes
and tons of cars are moving and there's no lights or anything. And the more often that you use
something, or some pathway, the more likely your brain is to turn that pathway into a freeway or a
through way. And that when you're when you're in a pattern or a habit, or just actually as we go
about our lives, our brain is constantly trying to find the most efficient way to activate those
same pathways that it does all of the time. And so when it when you're saying that when you take
a mushroom and it changes this neural pathway, it promotes neural growth, and it like deepens
these pathways, what you're saying is that the molecule activates these serotonin receptors,
then when it activates those serotonin receptors, it causes a new pathway, a new domino effect to
occur. And that when this domino effect happens, and you have this, this new pathway being opened
up, it deepens this connection between that otherwise wouldn't be there between these two
brain cells, because it's almost like a false connection. It's simulating or it's mimicking
what would happen if serotonin had been released between those two cells. Does that?
Yeah. And so and so, but when you say that this this pathway is being deepened,
chemistry wise, you're saying that more of these velcro like meshing proteins are being formed.
And so it's like having a, a thin copper cord connecting things versus a big fat copper cord
or some other it's like your your bandwidth is increasing along that path.
Yeah. And, and your brain cells are all attached to usually they many of them have multiple
connections. And it they're constantly in flux, like changing, changing these connections.
Although as we get older, we do it less and less, like, in general, it's often referred to as
plasticity. In general, our brains become less plastic as we get older. And so we start to only,
we start to only strengthen these connections that are currently being used. And it's not always like
the the proteins that are like the velcro molecules, it could also be like the levels of
receptors that are present, the levels of enzymes that are present or transporter proteins that are
present. There's a few different ways. It's I mean, the body is very, very complex. And in this
amazing way, there's a lot of like, there's a lot of different ways to do the same thing. And they
all support each other. And so when when I say that, like when you're when you're disrupting
that pattern, you're activating new pathways, and you're you're kind of simulating, maybe a new
interaction that wouldn't have otherwise happened, because there wouldn't be serotonin there.
Dr. Jon So I totally follow. So actually, there's like a whole series of processes that happen. It's
not like one thing happens to, to make the neural net more robust. It's actually making these
velcro proteins, it is setting out in new directions to make the neural network more
complex and have more redundancies. It's, I don't know, I don't know what the other ones would be.
Yeah, it could be even changing the gene expression of certain receptors or certain
factors in the cell because these I mean, I won't, I'm not going to go into way too much detail on
this part. But it's these receptors, like there's different classes of them. And we know so much
about what they do with the signaling pathway when they're activated, will go in it, it can
take this one thing called a G protein, and it splits up into three other things. And each of
those three pieces that get split apart will go to a different part and do a different activity.
And it's incredibly complex. And it's beautiful, and in my opinion, and there's there's so many
ways in which they end up being closer, tied to one another. And it's it's similar to
Yeah, I guess it's a it's a rounded approach that it happens in general, it's this is not
actually unique to any of the receptor systems. It happens in general, when you activate systems in
tandem, and when your brain is is forming these connections.
All right. So let's move forward. And let's talk about the differences in
the different results in in the neural network based on these different threshold doses that
we set up at the top of the set. So because we know that like when when we apply these different
doses, we are trying to do different things. And if we are getting different results,
that's telling me that that the brain is firing differently on these different
amounts. So so let's start by talking about micro dosing. So we're talking about
a, you know, we'll just use point one, since that is generally taken as the as the baseline micro
dose. So at so so more or less, the the main protocols that people follow are either like
five days on two days off, or three days on one day off, which, you know, are wildly similar
between the stamets and the Fatiman protocols. One way or another, you're taking this small amount of
point one for several days in a row, and then you're taking a little break,
and then you're doing it again. What do we know about what is happening for this repetitive
micro dose versus what we'll talk about in a minute, which is like when we take,
you know, a mini or a macro dose, what what is the what's going on mechanically in our brain
that makes the micro dose efficient?
Yes, there's a there's a couple, there's a couple different pieces of this one, the first,
the first piece is actually what happens at a different dose to the receptor. And I'll just
pick the five HT two a receptor, since that's the one that's classically associated with the effects
of mushrooms, that receptor, when we're talking about like how a molecule will attach to a
receptor, there's activating it, there's inactivating it, and then there's like everything
in between, there's all of these ways in which you can do it. But in, in just like the most general
way we can say it, solosin activates the five HT two a receptor. But it does that for a certain
amount of time. And there's a statistical probability of it binding to the receptor.
So let's say solosin is in the body, like you're taking a micro dose of it.
There's not that much. So there's not a large concentration. And so the statistical probability
that it will bind to the receptor is less, which is part of how it makes it less active,
because there's less of them that will be bound to the receptors causing these effects.
So that's one difference is the number of molecules bound to these receptors,
as a result of the actual way, like smaller amount that that's present in the body,
because this is true for all receptors, all receptors and the interaction with their with
the molecules that activate them, whether that's, you know, drugs or molecules inside our bodies,
that interaction is an equilibrium, which just means that it's a balance between what is there
and what is not there. And so the more of any of the drug or any of the molecule that you have,
the more you're going to push that equilibrium to having the molecule bound to the receptor,
and there will be more and more of them bound. So that's the first difference. In terms of the
micro dose, you have like a very low amount. And so you probably don't have all of your serotonin
receptors bound to solosin. There's like, it's highly likely that it's only a partial number of
them at any given time, because the dosage is lower. And then that leads to differences in the
downstream signaling, because when the receptor is activated, as I mentioned earlier, it starts
this really long signaling cascade. And most of the time, it ends up with a number of changes.
But those changes are additive, right? So if there's one receptor that's it's happening,
and then another receptor that will be different than if there's only one.
I follow that. Is there a, does the variable that you're doing it so often add something?
Because like certainly macro doses, which we'll talk about, are, you know, have their own special,
you know, benefits. But I'm curious about the fact that taking this small amount five days in a row,
five days in a row, does hitting that same note again and again and again,
is there some kind of like, like training that is taking place or when it's that often,
you're seeing reactions in other systems or something. There's got to be something to this,
to doing it so often.
Oh, I'm so glad you brought that up, because I totally forgot about that was my second,
that was my second piece that I was going to say. The second piece of it that is different
is that you're doing it regularly. So on the first end, you're only doing a very low level
activation. It's not, it's probably not all of the serotonin receptors, right? And then
the second difference being that you are doing it regularly, even regardless of the protocol,
it is, it's regular. And it's pretty consistent. So in this case, in the micro dosing case,
if we're going to compare it to what your body feels like is happening, your body feels a little
bit like you just have a little more serotonin in your body all the time, because you're doing it
regularly, right? So your body then does have what is called a homeostatic change, or a it's a,
it's a reaction, all of our bodies are constantly balancing what is happening today and what
happened yesterday with what is going to happen tomorrow. That's one of the main things that our
body is responsible for doing. And so in terms of there being like low levels of your body thinking
that there's low levels of serotonin or slightly higher levels of serotonin than are normally there,
there are definitely changes that it will induce that are different from what we're discussing
later in the macro dose, it's different from then a very large scale interaction with all of the
serotonin receptors just once. And it's actually the same mechanism or a similar mechanism to
most of the like long term, like mental health medications also function based on this sort of
long term low dose effect, or homeostatic effect that your body changes over time, right? Like,
I think it's very common for mental health prescription drugs, for you to be monitored
over time, because they don't take effect for a couple weeks. And then, you know, it's, it's a
titration. It's a it's a similar thing, or it's a similar scale of an of an effect.
All right. So with the micro doses, we are getting some binding, but not complete binding to all the
receptors. And the fact that we're doing it regularly. I don't know, I guess I could say
creates new opportunities for the neural network to use its resources differently. Would that be a
fair way to put it in layman's terms? Yeah, I think that's a great explanation. I'd say that
doing it regularly induces small changes in the brain as if you had slightly higher levels of
serotonin all the time. Will that cause me to produce less serotonin? Like will it leave you
like like if you stopped micro dosing suddenly? Would it would it leave me in a serotonin depleted
state? Because the the mushrooms have been using those receptors? I haven't seen any information
that supports that. But is it possible that it increases the levels of like enzymes that
metabolize serotonin? It is. But I don't I don't think I've seen anything that supports that it
would leave you like with a depletion, although there are some molecules out there that do,
and that it's like documented that they do or they can have that effect. Like one of them,
I'm thinking it is MDMA. And it does it does induce like a change. And this is at like larger,
larger doses. But it does induce a change that leads to like a temporary
feeling of like depletion afterwards. All right, so let's jump up to jump up the scale to macro
doses. So now we're talking between like, you know, three and four grams roughly of of the
mushroom flesh. At this point, we're not really talking about doing this regularly, like a micro
dose, we're gonna, we're gonna take, you know, five days a week. This is more something that
folks do, you know, semi regularly, or a couple times a year, or once a year, or this is more an
event. This is this is a ceremony for a lot of people, unless they're just partying on it. For
most folks, this is, you know, they are doing this to create meaning in their lives or whatever.
And so we're not talking about doing it regularly, but we are talking about doing a hell of a lot
more of it. So what do you see from your perspective, the differences between the
macro and the micro experience that you just laid out for us? I think that there's a, it's clearly a
big difference between activating all, all of the receptors at the at the same time also, because
so the other thing that I thought I should mention now about the micro dosing is that when you're at
these lower levels, not all the receptors will be activated equally either. Like I mentioned, like
some of them will be active, and some of them will be inactive. At the lower doses, it's way more
likely that the psilocybin molecules are only activating certain receptor subtypes that it's
especially bad, it's especially attracted to. And then as you get into the higher and higher doses,
it will start attaching to all of the serotonin receptors, because there's so much there,
right, that it's going to activate all of the different types and all of them at once and all,
all over the place. And this, you know, we've seen them in the brain scans, you end up with
these like beautiful brains that are just like, completely lit up. And in this case,
in terms of like the big long term benefit in the bigger doses, I definitely think that it is linked
to the mysticism or oceanic boundlessness and or ineffable way of describing that experience.
You mentioned that people do it to try to like fix something or to, you know, the set in the
setting being really important. You know, I think it's, I think it's interesting, because I think
about it as like, if a problem or if a problem is like a mountain, one of my friends put this
really beautifully, like, if you have a problem, and it's a mountain that you're trying to climb,
and you just end up trying to approach it from different trailheads, eventually, like, you
probably will find a way to climb the mountain. But the problem is sometimes, to a point in our
lives where we've approached that same mountain so many times that we can't possibly see a different
way to, you know, climb up that mountain. And we're just, you know, we don't have that option.
And I think one of the main positive attributes of a big macro dose, which is just one time,
or way less frequent is that you have this activation where you activate all of the
receptor subtypes at the same time. And so, you have a way larger disruption in that default
pathway. And you have a way larger activation of the extraneous others or new types of pathways,
new perspectives and new thoughts that you could then reintegrate and, you know, take from that,
take from that experience in a different way. Do we have any idea what,
um, what uniquely is happening when you activate all of those receptors at the same time? If a
micro dose is, you know, we're pushing the button on some of the receptors. And so, we're doing this
kind of slow and steady wins the race kind of improvement for the neural network versus taking
a macro dose, where you're essentially taking all of the buttons on all of the receptors and
just mashing the hell out of them. So, you're going from, you know, one person singing every day
to suddenly this whole choral all singing together and the melody, it creates something that is way
more than the sum of its parts. Do we know what that is in the brain when we're taking
macro doses? Is there some state in the brain that we achieve from
mashing all of those receptors at the same time? I mean, we know how it feels, right?
But I'm curious to know, do we know what's happening, like, chemically in the brain that,
at the same time, we're having these spiritual experiences?
I feel like chemically in the brain, it's probably chaos. It's like, you're activating
every serotonergic cell, not just in the brain, too. I mean, at the macro doses,
like, there's body effects, there's like stomach effects and other things. But we're talking about
the brain, you're activating and you're super activating all of the serotonin, like,
neurons that then go on, they go on to activate other things, right? Like I mentioned earlier,
that they activate and can modify the endocannabinoid system. But serotonin also
plays an important role in the dopamine system. And it's originally, this is like an older belief,
it used to be believed that serotonin and dopamine were like, contrary to one another, or that they
were like opposites, and they balanced each other out. And it's been the more and more that we've
looked into all of these systems for that matter, not just serotonin, dopamine and the endocannabinoid
system, but specifically, those three, they're very, very closely linked together. And so,
you have this massive activation of the serotonin system, but you're also going to have this massive
downstream activation of the dopamine system and the endocannabinoid system. And internally,
and in terms of scientifically, at my level, what is happening, I think, from my understanding of
what would happen to the receptors at that point, is that all of them are doing all of their
downstream signaling pathways at the same time. There is a massive overlap between some of the
pathways being synergistic, which means that they increase each other, and some of the pathways
being antagonistic, or they cancel each other out. Like, for example, the serotonin 2A and 2C
receptors often are viewed as canceling each other out when it comes to how they affect dopamine.
So, all of this is kind of like competing and happening at the same time. And what I think we
know, at least one of the things that we're learning, increasingly learning, is that coming
out of this, like, for the health benefits and where those come from, it appears to be linked to
this feeling of a deep connectedness experience that is incredible to me that it's linked to
a system in the brain or an interaction in the brain, but that certainly seems to be
more profound at the higher doses.
Dr. Jim Austin Okay. One more question on this track before we move on to the next topic area,
which is, you mentioned that at the macro doses, not only are the serotonin receptors all being
mashed on, but also there's all these other effects in the other parts of the body,
including the endocannabinoid system and in the gut. And certainly we know that the bowels are lit
up and breathing is impacted in some ways. Certainly your muscle sets react to it. Can
you talk a little bit about the non-neural receptors that get lit by a macro dose and kind of
explain to us what's happening in the totality of our bodies? Because mushrooms are a very whole
body drug.
Dr. Jennifer Laird Oh, yeah. So, the easiest thing, I think, to describe is the stomach one,
because that's like very, it's part of the process. You have the most serotonin receptors
in your gut and GI area and in your stomach. Your stomach produces huge amounts of serotonin.
And so, activating those serotonin receptors, that's part of what causes that stomach upset.
There's also other things in mushrooms that I think add to that effect, but a piece of that
upset stomach feeling comes from activating the receptors that are in your gut and in your
stomach. And otherwise, there's this communication back and forth, always, between your brain and
your body and between what is called the peripheral or your body's nervous system and
then your central nervous system. So, one of the things, it's like the feeling of how you can have
decreased pain or decreased temperature regulation, even just decreased sensory feedback in general.
A piece of that comes from another disruption or a communication disruption between peripheral and
central. And when you are flooding your body with a molecule that activates receptors that are
everywhere and that are so expressed in your central nervous system and in the core of
controlling these things, that's a piece of what causes the whole effect or the whole experience
is that there's always a feedback between what's going on in the brain and what's going on in the
body. And these little loops that our body goes through, they're regulated along the way in many
different pieces by these neurotransmitters. And so, by taking something that mimics serotonin,
you're modifying every piece of that loop for those systems.
Are there serotonin receptors throughout the body similar to endocannabinoid receptors
throughout the body?
So, it's similar. I don't believe that they have the same exact profile of the amount. So, both
the endocannabinoid system and the serotonin system are expressed very, very highly in the
brain. And both of them are expressed also in the GI tract. But the endocannabinoid system, I believe,
is more in the fat tissue than the serotonin system is. I believe the serotonin system is
also found more heavily in the cardiac or the heart area. Both of the endocannabinoid system
and the serotonin system are all over the place. But in terms of how highly they're expressed,
I think they have a slightly different expression pattern.
I think that if you asked me, I would have said, oh, yeah, of course, there's serotonin receptors
in the gut. I mean, yeah, of course. But I think I also forgot that until you mentioned it again.
And if I'm now thinking more holistically, instead of, oh, serotonin receptors in the brain,
and I'm thinking about, oh, serotonin receptors in these groupings all around the body,
suddenly it makes a lot more sense why mushrooms activate so many different places in the body.
Because it's not that the mushroom has to have a bunch of different chemicals to reach these
different places. It's just that the receptors are all over the place. And I want to follow up on,
as you were explaining that, you mentioned that you believe that there are other chemicals
in the mushroom that activate in the stomach. Do you have anything more to say about that,
about what these other chemicals may be?
Dr. Jennifer Lixton I mean, I know that there's probably tons,
depending on the strain of mushroom that you're looking at. But one of the class of molecules that
I'm really interested in has to do with like sugars. Mushrooms can produce and mushrooms
these really complicated, can produce these really complicated types of molecules that are
like similar to sugar or like linked to sugars. I mean, and then I'm also interested in very,
very similar compounds to psilocybin or psilocin, that there are probably or possibly many similar
other forms of those molecules that share a similar shape and are just slightly different,
kind of similar to the rare cannabinoids, right? So, if you think about like the biosynthetic
pathways that these mushrooms and that the cannabis plant, that the pathways that they
go through to create these molecules, they are done by enzymes, which are like little machines,
like I mentioned earlier, that do chemical reactions. And those little machines are not
always perfect. They can make mistakes, and they can create like little off byproducts and things.
And sometimes they just will create a certain amount of like little amounts of things. And so,
this is one of the differences between isolated extracts and like whole plant or whole mushroom,
whole fungus extracts, right? Is that you're not going to like eliminate any of those like
mistakes or just like trace amounts that are slightly, slightly different, right? Because,
I mean, this is like an example you brought up earlier with DMT, there's the different types.
And that's kind of what you're, when people talk about the different types of DMT, I think there's
like red and all these different like versions versus like the crystal versus like an oil,
you're talking about like different like slight modifications or derivatives that are present
in the plant in small amounts. They're in smaller amounts than the other molecules.
I believe that psilocybin or psilocin would be no different. I believe that there would be
small amounts. And I'm not sure possibly it's already been found. I just haven't, I haven't
seen it in the literature. But I think it's quite possible or very, very possible that it's there,
and it exists and that in all the different strains, it's that there are complementary
molecules present. And that's a piece of what's different between all of these different strains
of mushrooms is what else is in there. It's not the psilocybin content that's different. Well,
the psilocybin content can vary between these different strains of mushrooms, absolutely,
but that they also have other complementary molecules inside of them. And I have, like,
ideas of what I think that they could be, but I would be really, really excited to look at it,
hopefully one day in the future. Right on. So, when comparing the
microdose permanence of change to a macrodose permanence of change, would you suggest that
there's any difference in permanence between the two varieties or two thresholds of dosages?
If we talk about the benefits of microdosing stay with us, and then perhaps some of their
attributes fade away, and that happens with potentially different attributes with a macrodose,
and potentially some of them go away. Would you say that the fading of the benefits are
like on par with each other or that they last differently?
That's a super, super hard question. Let's see. I think, I guess I would think that they're more
just different tools, different tools for different uses and different advantages, right? Because on
one hand, I think that there is a huge benefit and that a lot of people have experienced the huge
benefit from a profound experience, right? Something that is life-altering and life-changing,
but that is very subjective. And I know that I've read people's experiences with microdoses
where they have had a profound experience for them on a microdose, right? Because everything
in this world is subjective. So, I think that, I think it's a very difficult question because I
think so much of that has to do with the individual person, what they're seeking from this,
and also maybe even just a little bit about their neurochemistry or their specific neurodiversity,
because I think you mentioned at the beginning of this, there are different doses of microdoses for
people who experience, like certain people are sensitive, and that's going to be true
for the benefits as well. Okay. So, one more thing I want to hit on before
we go to the second break, and that is tolerance. We're all pretty familiar with cannabis tolerance
and that when you're taking in THC regularly, your receptors can stay full up and perhaps even get
lazy. But with psilocybin, if you take mushrooms on day one and you take them on day two, you're
going to have to take more on day two. But from what I understand from the literature, it's not
really tolerance. It's kind of like a different mechanism, but I have no way to explain it. So,
would you kind of teach us a bit about what that's like to take mushrooms day one and then day two
and the fact that you need more? What's going on there? Sure. So, usually tolerance is in reference
to the receptors, which is why I think usually this is a different form or a different mechanism
of tolerance because when it comes to mushrooms or any of the serotonergics, it's actually linked
to the enzyme that breaks it down, which is called monoamine oxidase. This enzyme takes the molecule
and adds and makes it inactive. It inactivates the molecule. And the first day that you would
take mushrooms, let's say your body has five of these enzymes to break it down. The next day,
your body would have 50, like tons. And so, because you have so many of these enzymes,
it would immediately break it down. And that's why it's a different mechanism because it's linked
to breaking down the molecule into something inactive, rather than being linked to changing
the number of receptors that the molecule is binding to. All right. And this last question,
I just stumbled into this question. So, I may not actually ask it scientifically accurately,
but you mentioned the MAOs. And I recall like back in my college days, I was taking St. John's wort
for anxiety. And I remember that taking mushrooms was not having the same kind of effect. And I
remember at the time thinking, being told, oh, it's because the St. John's wort is an MAO inhibitor.
And so, taking MAO inhibitors lessens the potency of a whole category of drugs.
And I don't even know if I'm asking that question right, but I'm sure you know what I'm talking
about. So, would you talk a little bit about MAO inhibitors? Yeah, it's actually very,
it's very dangerous. And this is something, a PSA, it's very dangerous to mix different types
of serotonergic molecules, specifically MAOI or monoamine oxidase inhibitors and serotonergic
agonists, which is what mushrooms are. It's what LSD is as well. Because there is something called
serotonin syndrome that you can get if you overload the serotonin system. And it's very,
it's very rare to be able to do that if you were just using one. But it's way more likely to happen
if you were using more than one. So, okay, I'm going to stop talking about that now. But it
exists. And it's more likely, I have never heard about that, that it would decrease your ability.
Because in theory, taking something that is a monoamine oxidase inhibitor would turn that
enzyme off, right? It would inhibit that enzyme. And so, in theory, you would actually have more
of the mushrooms present still. And actually, that's the premise of ayahuasca. Because ayahuasca,
if you eat DMT, it gets metabolized so quickly that you can't feel it. So, that's why ayahuasca
is a very complicated mixture. And it's different depending on the person in place, a shaman who's
creating it, and the tribe. It's different in a bunch of places. But the main ingredients that go
into it are a monoamine oxidase inhibitor that then allows the DMT to not be metabolized. So,
I would say it's almost the opposite effect. But perhaps, because you were taking St. John's wort,
perhaps it was actually increasing the level of monoamine oxidase that was there. Because if it
has an inhibitor in it, it has this reactionary effect in your body or the homeostatic effect that
then your body upregulated it. So, that's possible. Right on. Cool. Well, that was a fun aside. So,
let's go ahead and take our second short break and be right back. You are listening to Shaping
Fire. And my guest today is pharmacologist, Miyabi Shields. Cannabis folks are innovators
and problem solvers. And we like to make money. Have you developed a tool, technique, or plant
that you want to protect and monetize? You'll likely want legal representation that is experienced,
accessible, and shares your values. Plant and planet law represents a wide variety of clients
who choose to respect the environment while pursuing their business goals. Have you invented
a machine or gizmo that you're bringing to market? Did you discover a breakthrough,
environmentally-friendly pesticide or fertilizer formulation that you're about to start selling?
Have you bred a cannabis plant with attributes not found anywhere else?
Attorney Dale Hunt and his Plant and Planet team have established genetic patents in over 30
countries. Working to help entrepreneur scientists throughout the life sciences,
Plant and Planet represents environmentally positive clients in cannabis and other botanicals,
fungi, water purification, clean energy, emulsions, and medical applications.
Plant and Planet helps people protect what they've created. If you are an early-stage
company with an established idea and are in the process of fundraising, often the investors require
intellectual property protections happen at the same time. Plant and Planet can be your
sole representation or they can integrate with your existing legal team and plug in their specialties.
Plant and Planet is made of scientist lawyers with a real passion for cannabis,
inventions, and the environment. They have the scientific and legal depth to help you
establish patent protections for your great idea. You don't have to go it alone. Friendly,
qualified, and honorable legal representation is available to you. Contact Plant and Planet Law
today to start the conversation. Email info at plantandplanet.com. That's Plant and Planet Law.
Our clients make the planet better.
Branding
Kirsten Nelson and her team are focused on improving your bottom line.
You know, most marketing firms are excited to make your logo, packaging, and website very pretty,
but they leave responsibility for improving your bottom line up to you. They don't want
that kind of responsibility, but that's pretty much the most important part of marketing, right?
Kirsten and her team will help you engage new customers, funnel them to your point of sale,
online, or storefront, and keep them coming back to you and telling their friends.
If you happen to be a new cannabis company or an established company moving from medical to
adult use in your state, Kirsten especially can help you. Not only is she well-versed in
marketing and finance, but she totally gets cannabis, whole plant medicine, terpenes,
heritage farmers, and the particular needs of startups. Check out what she did recently for
Moontime Medicinals and Humboldt at MoontimeMedicinals.com. Kirsten and her team put
together a whole brand package for them, built their website, and wrote their sales materials.
No doubt this is a paid commercial spot, but that does not mean they bought my opinion.
I've worked with Blunt Branding on 5 projects now for various of their clients, and every single
time they have done more than they have promised and over-delivered on results. I love how they
generate new revenue and focus on that as the goal instead of just making a pretty logo.
Similarly, every single friend I have referred them to has come back to thank me.
And that just does not happen every day. Grab a pen and paper because the website
address is coming up. If you want someone to implement marketing programs that feed your
bottom line, give Blunt Branding a call. They will share proven techniques to increase your
audience and generate sales while using cutting-edge technology solutions in the background
that make all of this easy, automatic, and trackable. Go to ShapingFire.com forward slash
Blunt Branding to find out more. You can also click the link in our newsletter.
Blunt Branding. Marketing that makes you money.
Zoe Sigmunds lecture, Understanding Your Endocannabinoid System. Kevin Jodry of Wonderland
Nursery talking about breeding cannabis for the best terpene profile. Frenchie Canoli's Lost Art
of the Hashishin presentation. Nicholas Mahmoud on regenerative and polyculture cannabis growing.
Dr. Sunil Agarwal on the history of cannabis medicine around the world. Eric Vlosky and Josh
Rutherford on solventless extraction. And Jeff Lohenfels on the soil food web. There are several
presentations from Dr. Ethan Russo on terpenes and the endocannabinoid system too. While there,
be sure to check out the three 10-part Shaping Fire session series, one with Kevin Jodry,
one with Dr. Ethan Russo, and one with Jeff Lohenfels. And even my own presentations on
how to approach finding your dream job in cannabis and why we choose cannabis business
even though the risks are so high. As of today, there's over 200 videos that you can check out
for free. So go to youtube.com forward slash shango los or click on the link in the newsletter.
Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire. I am your host, Shango Los. And my guest today
is pharmacologist, Miyabi Shields. All right. So here's the big finish. In the first set,
we learned a lot about how the serotonin cycle interacts with psilocin and also with the
endocannabinoid system. A little bit about how dopamine reacts as well. During the second set,
we talked about the different thresholds for dosage, the mechanics, and how it works. During
this third set, though, we're going to talk about some of the applications for this.
So I want to point out that this really isn't an episode about the spiritual relationship and
communication, psychological benefits of taking mushrooms. Certainly, there is a lot to say about
that. But we're really talking more about physiological mechanics today. So, you know,
that information on the psychology benefits, the psychological benefits of taking mushrooms,
you can pick that up elsewhere or maybe I'll do a show about it in the future. But that's not
really what we're talking about today. We're going to start, though, Miyabi, with I know that you're
a big fan of taking psilocybin and cannabis together because they're synergistic. Will you
go ahead and kind of explain why you see them as being such good friends? Totally.
I think that the systems are complementary. And there's so much overlap and interplay between the
endocannabinoid system and the serotonin system. And it's clear, it's interesting because there's
almost no research that are done together on cannabis and mushrooms. And there's very,
very limited research on how the systems when they're activated together, in humans, that is.
But there is tons and tons of information out there in the real world community of people
who use mushrooms and cannabis together. And in general, they are a potentiating or they're
synergistic, which means that you can use less of both of them to achieve a strong effect or that
they don't necessarily, you know, one doesn't necessarily just like strengthen the other,
but that they complement each other in such a way that the therapeutic benefits can be greater
when they're used together at smaller doses than when they're alone. And I think that,
I think it's interesting, and I obviously understand why, because it's difficult to study
such, it's complicated to study cannabis, it's complicated to study mushrooms, and there's so
many molecules in both plants. But I think that it's incredible and worth talking about that their
benefits can be used together. And that one of the main things that people talk about is about how
there are some negative effects to both cannabis and mushrooms. And that in general, you can limit
those negative effects by using less of them. In general, using less of any drug is beneficial
for you in the long term. And yeah, I think that it's crazy. And I would love to see more research
on the synergy between the two. And that it's very explainable in terms of how I mentioned earlier,
the actual receptors interact with one another. And then the cells in the brain and the brain
cells that fire together also interact with one another. It's in a way that makes sense that
they're complementary. And that actually, it's been a recent, it was a recent paper that showed
that if you use cannabis regularly, you have an increased number of those receptor, the receptor
dimers, the two receptors together. So the serotonin receptor with the CB1 receptor,
how I was mentioning earlier, they come together and they signal differently when they're together.
There is actually very preliminary, early, early evidence that regular cannabis use will increase
the number of those two receptor subtypes together, which is just interesting because it's kind of
pointing to or hinting at the idea that you can modify either system to be more complementary
with each other or put it in a different balance per se.
Jared Polin Do you have any thoughts on if you're going
to be using mushrooms at what point to start your cannabis use as well? Would it be, you know,
start before it comes on? Do you want to wait till it comes on? Are there, is there any mechanics
going on there that we want to be aware of? Dr. Jennifer Lixton
Well, I think one of the biggest benefits has to do with the anti-nausea effects of cannabis.
So that's a big, in terms of like onset of using them together, I think that would be
something like worth mentioning is that like mushrooms often cause an upset stomach and
cannabis combats upset stomach and GI issues. One thing worth mentioning is that because they
potentiate each other, because they work together that way, it is, you have to be very, very careful.
And this is not something for the first time ever to do without considering what the dosages are
and how they interact with one another, because they certainly interact with one another in a way
that potentiates the total overall effect. One thing that I've found is really useful
is that you can, because of cannabis, having a shorter duration of action, if you're smoking it,
or inhaling it, or, you know, dabbing it, vaping it, it has a shorter duration of action. And so
one thing that I think is useful is that you can almost use cannabis to like as a titrator,
or something that is a very subtle alteration of the effect. And this isn't, I mean, this is
something that I've seen tons of people do. It's just it isn't talked about. And it isn't studied
in the scientific literature. And I would I would love to study it one day or for someone to
study it because I think that there are different benefits that can be obtained by using them
together. So we know that cannabis is biphasic, meaning consuming some THC reduces anxiety,
but taking more than your personal threshold makes it anxiety causing, right? Mushrooms also
seem to cause both relaxation and can cause anxiety too. I'm guessing that they're biphasic.
This is why we focus so much on like mindset and setting, right? With all psychedelics,
what effect will using mushrooms and cannabis together have in regard to anxiety creation or
succession? Okay, so this answer is going to be entirely based on the experience from others that
I've heard and from the theory of what is interacting with these with these receptors
in these molecules. But when a molecule is biphasic, usually it means that there's this
opposing effect, right? At the second dose, you at a higher dose or a higher threshold,
it's possible that that second threshold that causes anxiety is caused by an imbalance in these
signaling systems. And it is possible that that imbalance has to do with only activating one of
those systems at a time. From what I've seen in in personal experiences and qualitatively of others,
in general, they can have a curbing effect on that anxiety effect when used together,
although it is also certainly true that it can cause if you're unprepared, or if there's other,
like, environmental factors in your set and setting that it could go the other way. And so,
I think it's hard to say like with certainty, that there would be anything that would happen
for certain for any specific person in that scenario in any scenario, but that I do think
that it's possible that they can at least and to a certain extent, curb that effect by having it be
an activation of both systems at the same time, because they balance each other out.
While that while that's being said, I don't think that we know enough to say that it wouldn't also,
at times have the opposing effect, because it's definitely true that it could.
Dr. Jones Yeah, and this is definitely one of the experiences that falls in the personalized
medicine approach, right? Like, like, you know, everybody's gonna have to figure out what their
own bi basic thresholds for mushrooms and cannabis are, you know, start slow and low and find your
own right. And I and while we're here, I appreciate the fact you giving me some of these answers to
these questions that honestly, the science doesn't exist yet. And the fact that you're willing to,
you know, take a professional guesstimate, I appreciate your willingness to do that.
I mean, this is all that this is all just an abstract idea at this point, but there is some
very real world applications that are happening. And I think it's I, I think we shouldn't ignore
the fact that people do use mushrooms and cannabis together. And that in in general,
there are unexplored unexplored options here. So we've been talking all day today about how
mushroom psilocybin interacts with the serotonin system, which is one of the reasons
why people turn to mushrooms for migraines, right? And it's amazing. I have heard so many different
ideas from patients about why taking either low or large doses of psilocybin mushrooms
helps their their, their migraines, either stopping it at the onset or stopping it once
it's already on or used as a preventative. I mean, I've heard so many different strategies,
and I don't know if any of them are better than the other but but from from your perspective,
what do you see as far as the effectiveness that psilocybin might have in the prevention
or cessation of migraines? I think that there's so much evidence in both the endocannabinoid
system and the serotonin system. So I mentioned earlier that when you activate the serotonin 5HT
2A receptor, which is the main receptor associated with psychedelic effects, that you will increase
your levels of endocannabinoids as well. And for this, this I think is more linked to the preventative.
But migraines are associated with clinical endocannabinoid deficiency, which is a theory
by Dr. Ethan Russo. And it's a theory, but there's a lot of evidence. There's a lot of evidence behind
people with migraines and also fibromyalgia and IBS or irritable bowel syndrome, having
clinical endocannabinoid deficiency, having lower levels of circulating endocannabinoids
in their body and having this be one of the reasons why they are sensitized to getting migraines. So
in that, that's one possible way that I think that it modifies it. And then the other way is through
the serotonin system. And actually, the like most or some of the most common migraine medications
that are abortive or that get rid of your migraines are tryptans. They're also molecules
that activate the serotonin system. So this is actually a very, very similar mechanism to what
the pharmaceutical agents have as well. Although it's slightly different because the pharmaceutical
drugs activate only one of the serotonin receptor subtypes. I believe it's 1B is the type or 1A.
But they only activate one for the most part of the serotonin receptor subtypes. And it's a very,
very different effects profile and can actually cause like rebound migraines. And there's certain
like, there's positive things associated with they do work in abort migraines, but then there's
negative things that don't appear to happen with psilocybin mushrooms. And I think that it's this,
I do think it's a dual approach. I think it has to do with the effects of the 2A, 2C receptor,
or perhaps the pan, pan agonism of activating all of the serotonin system subtypes, because
for both migraine and cluster headaches, there's a lot of really, really positive evidence of using
mushrooms to either prevent them in terms of like a long term usage or abort them.
Now, I know that you are not a medical doctor, and you are not giving medical advice. So I'm
asking this question specifically from what you are learning from the literature and from your
own knowledge of how the neural network work works. Based on that information, is there one
strategy for using mushrooms to thwart migraines that seems like it's more likely to be effective
than others, like, you know, microdosing for migraines or macro dosing for migraines or
taking it at this point or that point? Like, do you have anything to add on that topic?
You know, migraines are such a complicated disorder, and they're a trigger disorder,
which means that like once you trigger a migraine attack, like there's a prodromal phase and then
the pain phase. So in terms of like what the best mechanism is, I really hope we have that answer
in the long term. In the short term, I can say that I've known people who I've known someone
who's completely cured themselves of migraines using mushrooms. And in this case, it was like,
somewhat regular. So in that case, I think that like somewhat regular use, and like the microdose
route of being able to use it more regularly may be beneficial in terms of like somewhat
permanently altering the circuitry that leads to you triggering your migraines. But I don't
think that there is enough yet to say, even just in migraines in general and what causes them,
because a piece of this of migraines is vasculature or the blood flow in the brain.
And so perhaps in that sense to altering it somewhat chronically would be beneficial.
Yeah, that's a really, really good question. And I honestly hope that I have an answer for you,
like, you know, within the next, like, I don't know, maybe I'll give myself time the rest of my
life.
Jared Right on. So I know that you are
very, very interested in inflammation. And that is closely related to the serotonin
system as well. Are there strategies for using mushrooms or mushrooms and cannabis together
to help fight inflammation?
Dr. Jennifer Lixton So I think that the way that this
involves inflammation, or the way that mushrooms interact with inflammation has a lot to do
with, there's a type of inflammation that's not like swelling or like redness or rashing. And this
type, like this type of inflammation is just like a systemic release of chemical inflammatory factors
in the body and in the brain. And there's two places in serotonin, where serotonin,
I think plays a big role in that. The first one is in the GI tract. And the second one's in the
brain. And inflammation in the brain can cause depression. And there's one specific subtype of
depression that's caused by inflammation in the brain that actually leads to decreased levels
of serotonin. And so in this, in this case, this would be a way that, you know, perhaps you can
rebalance that or decrease the inflammation by supplementing with more serotonin. It's, I guess,
it's unclear whether the inflammation causes the decreased serotonin or the decreased serotonin
causes the inflammation or vice versa. But by rebalancing the signaling in your brain, you can
lead to a decreased level of inflammation or the release of these inflammatory cytokines.
Because also in general, this is just a very, very large general statement, but in general,
inflammation in the brain is caused by like stress. And like that, we could potentially by
decreasing anxiety and stress, then aid in our levels of systemic inflammation.
It really seems that one of the one of the first benefits that people get from microdosing
is increased resilience to anxiety and stress. People who I meet that start microdosing,
they're only a couple weeks in before they're all like, you know, life isn't getting me down
as much anymore. Do we know what the, the mode of action there is? Like what, why that's happening?
I don't know if anyone if there's ever been anything published on this. But I my personal
belief is that it has to do with this low level mimicking, like mimicking of a low level increase
in your levels of serotonin, that then kind of allow you to restructure that default. And that,
that a lot of people who begin microdosing for anxiety, right, or for like managing stress,
you are sensitized to those pathways that like lead to like negative thought loops, and can
spiral down into like negativity, or and it's, it's not easy to change your, your structuring
of your brain that way. And I think this, that's the like part of the book by Michael Pollan,
How to Change Your Mind, right, is that in many ways, you can use these microdoses as tools
for restructuring the way that you process the things that you are and aren't stressed about,
the level of stress that your body or your brain takes it to, something stressful happens in your
day, instead of allowing it to go to this, this changes everything for the rest of my life, and,
you know, and then going down that entire pathway, making it more of a habit, let's say to
stop that and, and only allow it to stress you out to the extent that is more manageable. It's
and that's not an easy task. That's not something that is, that's not something that is easy. It's
something that takes a lot of conscious effort and, and work. And I think that microdosing is
a tool to make it easier for your brain to like restructure to that task.
Right on. So, in addition to restructuring, there is just simply
optimizing and brain healing. And let's, let's finish with this. You know, we have talked many
times on Shaping Fire about the use of cannabinoids, especially CBD cannabidiol, for its
neuro genesis benefits, meaning the creation of more neurons, especially the dopamine excreting
cells that when lost tend to lead to like Parkinson's syndrome and, and things like that.
And so, by taking, by taking CBD, we increase our brain's neuroplasticity. And because they,
because of the neuro genesis, and now, and now today, we're talking about
the, the neuroplasticity benefits from mushrooms, and perhaps neuro genesis. Would you talk a little
bit just simply about how microdosing and you can, you can add the CBD component if you wish,
just makes for a, for a healthier, younger functioning brain?
Yeah, so, I think younger is an interesting, that's an interesting adjective to use, because
in general, when we're saying younger brain, we're talking about more plastic or like less,
not finished is not the word, we're never finished, our brains are always going to be changing.
But more like random thoughts and random connections and less like solidified and
minimal connections. And the reason why things like in general, when things go away, or we lose,
we lose certain functionalities, a piece of that has to do with our brain not activating
those pathways anymore, or those are making those connections, right. And I think one of the things
that mushrooms help and that by activating the serotonin system in the way that it does,
which is pan activation all over, you really are sort of like, stimulating, you're, you're
literally, you're quite literally chemically stimulating a giant system in the brain that
kind of just like jumpstarts and has all of these down, there's all these downstream things that it
will interact with, and that it will then activate to kind of like, give a bunch of different new
pathways, a boost, or at least like a little activation. And what that can do is it can start
a, you know, it can start a bunch of other, like, next level things that can lead to, like,
eventually, differences in the way like your openness, I guess, would be one way of putting
it like how you were describing about having like a better way of reacting to anxiety. The other
thing I would say is like, is like openness in general and flexibility, and that those things
are all generally speaking associated with being happier, which is also generally associated with
serotonin. So, that would be mechanistically the way that I think that, that this is working is
that it facilitates and encourages new connections, because it creates and like sparks these new
connections that otherwise wouldn't have been stimulated, because there would be limited places
where serotonin would be released, because as we get older, our brains are less and less plastic,
and we release serotonin in more and more specific areas or in pathways that have been, you know,
kind of cultivated, as opposed to introducing a new molecule that mimics serotonin, that will
activate a bunch of different pathways that otherwise maybe would not have been activated
together.
Jared Wow, that's a really great explanation. It
reminds me a lot of like, use it or lose it, right? Like as we get older, if we don't stay
physical, we lose some of our mobility and our options become more limited, right? I can imagine
that that would work the same way with a neural network too. If we're not stimulating these various
networks, eventually, we're doing the same thing every day, and things are becoming a little more
rote. And we start to lose options, because some of those neural pathways that give us more mental
options get pruned or are less deep. And so by using, by microdosing, we're just giving everything
enough stimulation to keep them online.
Miabi Yeah, they quite literally do get pruned.
Our brain cells look a lot like trees. And yeah, they do. They look a lot like trees, and they do
quite literally end up there. The purpose of that is to be more efficient, right? And to deliver the
messages down the same pathways faster and more efficiently. But absolutely, no, that's a good
analogy to use.
Well, Miabi, thank you so much for joining me again. This was everything I hoped it would be.
And every time we talk, I learn so much. And I get so much fan mail for you through my account,
people really enjoying your ability to take these pretty complex biological mechanisms and put them
into examples that anybody can understand. So I appreciate you going down this path with me
about mushrooms today and appreciate both your expertise and good share with all this.
Miabi Well, thanks so much for having me and also
for going down the rabbit hole of abstract molecular pharmacology, because there's definitely
so much more to be found out of this of this unknown, but I love I love talking about this.
And that's why I love talking to people who are open to, you know, kind of approaching it from
different angles, basically.
Jared Right on. So if you,
dear listener are interested in knowing more about Miabi, there are a couple ways or three ways for
you to do that. By far, the best is to start with Miabi's Instagram account, because while
there are other social media accounts come and go, the Instagram seems to be pretty steady.
And that's MiabiPhD, M-I-Y-A-B-E-PhD, MiabiPhD on Instagram. And then also, Miabi has a gargantuan
following on TikTok, you know, a six-figure following that you can follow as well. And
if you love Miabi's explanations, you're going to love them even more with like 3D models
in their hands being manipulated. So that is also MiabiPhD there on TikTok.
And if you are curious to know more about Miabi's day job, you can go to the website for their
company Smoke & All, and that's S-M-O-K-E-N-O-L.com. One of these days, we'll talk about
Miabi's invention for extraction of cannabinoids from smoke.
If you are interested in hearing more about mushrooms, mushrooms and cannabis and things
like that, there are a handful of earlier Shaping Fire episodes that you can check out,
going all the way back to Shaping Fire episode 22 with Dr. Ethan Russo on treating brain injuries
with mushrooms and cannabis. Episode 67, also with Dr. Russo on migraine therapy using cannabis
and mushrooms. Episode 70 about cannabis, mushrooms and terpenes for optimum health
with guests Dr. Ethan Russo, Tony Berzura, Jeff Chilton and Berner focusing on Chinese
medicinal mushrooms rather than psychedelic ones. And finally, very recently, episode 76
with Adam Bramlage comparing different psilocybin microdosing protocols.
You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the show at
ShapingFire.com and wherever you get your podcasts. If you enjoyed the show, we'd really
appreciate it if you would leave a positive review of the podcast wherever you download.
Your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too. On the Shaping Fire
website, you can also subscribe to the newsletter for insights into the latest cannabis news,
exclusive videos and giveaways. On the Shaping Fire website, you also find transcripts of today's
podcast as well. Be sure to follow on Instagram for all original content not found on the podcast.
That's at Shaping Fire and at shangolos on Instagram. Be sure to check out Shaping Fire
YouTube channel for exclusive interviews, farm tours and cannabis lectures. Does your company
want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts? Email hotspot at shapingfire.com
to find out how. Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire. I've been your host, Shango Los.
