Most cannabis enthusiasts live somewhere in the murky area between science and bro-science.
We all aspire to have accurate information, but because of prohibition, we don't have
a lot of good answers to many important cannabis medicine questions yet. And so for many, it's
easier for them to give you their best guess rather than say they don't know. And so
it goes with so many cannabis educators as well. It's not hard to get a speaking gig
on cannabis medicine at a cannabis convention without any actual scientific or medical training.
I've seen a multitude of speakers and panelists who were simply parroting what they heard
from someone else or something they read in an unsourced internet post. Too many medical
cannabis speakers vaguely explain the endocannabinoid system, and when you ask follow-up questions,
they reply with additional vagueness and platitudes, but not very much detail or scientific
rigor. These are the charlatans and carpetbaggers that degrade our community as a whole.
However, there's a new breed of cannabis educator ready to replace these folks. They are well-educated,
well-spoken enough, confident enough, and full of heart and the right intentions. I'm
seeing more and more of a new generation who are able to study cannabis medicine or the
cannabis plant in school. They combine the highest ideals of our community with the knowledge
that comes from rigorous study. I am exceptionally enthused by this new generation of cannabis
leaders and look forward to working with them and someday handing off the baton to them
as they take over. I encourage you to do the same. If there is someone that you follow
online that has the depth and accuracy of information that you respect, take a moment
and tell somebody about them or make a post to your social media about them. Intentionally
help their message rise above the noise of charlatans so that more of your friends and
family have the opportunity to learn from someone offering real science and real actionable
information. Shining light on good cannabis people is an act of cannabis activism.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, business, and technique efficiently and with
good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter. We'll send you new podcast
episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox, along with commentary on a
couple of the most important news items from the week and videos too. Don't rely on social
media to let you know when a new episode is published. Sign up for the updates to make
sure you don't miss an episode. Also, we're giving away very cool prizes to folks who
are signed up to receive the newsletter. There's nothing else you need to do to win except
receive that newsletter, so go to shapingfire.com to sign up for the newsletter and be entered
into this month's and all future newsletter prize drawings.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I am your host, Shango Lose. Today my guest is
Miyabi Shields, PhD. Dr. Shields is co-founder of Real Isolates, which, ironically, focuses
on the importance of secondary plant components and synergistic cannabis blends, so essentially
whole plant medicine. Miyabi received their PhD in pharmaceutical sciences, focusing on
the biochemistry of the endocannabinoid system from Northeastern University in 2018. Miyabi
has authored or co-authored six peer-reviewed publications and presently has a patent under
review for a novel fungus and plant extraction method. Miyabi also has a substantial list
of honors and awards, including a 2016 International Cannabinoid Research Society Pre-doctoral
Research Award. Their TikTok channel, at Miyabi PhD, has 130,000 followers and is where I
first met Miyabi. Today we're going to focus on the detailed mechanics of the endocannabinoid
system and further understand how cannabis medicine works.
Welcome to the show, Miyabi.
Thanks for having me.
So cannabinoids interact with cannabinoid receptors in the endocannabinoid system and
they do that by binding with those receptors. That's how they take action. That's how they
do what they do. But what is actually going on at a chemical level when a cannabinoid
pings a receptor? Most cannabis educators just kind of generally explain agonist and
antagonist and leave it at that, but my audience really wants to understand what's going on
at that granular level. So if you would, please explain what's going on at that point of the
receptor and maybe include why some cannabinoids act upon some receptors and not others.
All right. So we're going to dive into structural biochemistry then. So receptors are proteins
and not protein like nutritional protein that we eat in our diet, but a protein molecularly
just means a long string of amino acids. So basically the receptor is this giant ribbon
of amino acids, which are, it's a really long molecule and it forms these different
shapes and receptors like the GPCR is a, which is a type of receptor, which is what the cannabinoid
receptors are, happen to be these shapes that have like seven like helixes or cylinders
and they're, they're arranged in such a way that they're floating around in our membranes.
And what actually happens when a molecule binds to a receptor is that it changes the
shape very, very slightly. And that change in shape, which we call a change in confirmation
is what activates or inactivates the receptor. So this is like, it's, it's this amazing process
where when THC binds to the CB1 receptor, when it changes the shape of the receptor
by binding it, all of a sudden this new area of the receptor becomes available. Cause if
you're imagining these seven cylinders, all kind of floating around, all of a sudden when
THC binds, it arranges the seven cylinders, you know, such that this other patch is available
that starts the signaling process. It's called a signaling cascade that happens afterwards.
And in terms of why certain molecules have different actions or, or can bind to different
receptors, that, that comes down to three different things. And the first one is shape.
So, you know, everyone's heard square peg, round hole, the same thing with receptors
and with molecules, there is a binding pocket for most molecules, which is on the receptor.
It's like a piece of the receptor that's shaped such that it can accept these molecules. In
the CB1 receptor, THC binds, you know, somewhere towards the top. And it binds every single
time in the same exact way, because it fits into this shape, like a square peg and another
molecule that doesn't fit into that pocket will not bind to that receptor. So that's
the first thing. And the second thing is charges like positive and negative charges. So in
chemistry, there are partial positive and negative charges and just like magnets, they
attract and repel one another. So inside, in addition to the binding pocket, having
a very specific shape, there also are very specific charges, almost like a magnet that
interact with the charges on THC or CBD, that then help to bind it even closer. And then
the third thing is what's called Van der Waals interactions, but it's really a metaphor for
that. I just think of it like fatty Velcro, because molecules that are very fatty, like
the cannabinoids, which are, you know, extremely fatty molecules, they can have these interactions
with each other where they kind of stick to other fatty molecules. And that's the third
thing that kind of binds these molecules to the receptors. And you have to have a matchup
between the shape, the charges, and the fatty Velcro for a molecule to have what's called
affinity to a receptor, which just means that the molecule will bind to the receptor. And
then the next step further will be what happens to the receptor when that molecule binds.
So what you were mentioning about like the different ways in which a molecule can interact
with a receptor, THC is often called a partial agonist for a CB1 receptor. That means that
it turns it on, but only partially. And this is because when THC binds, it changes the
shape to turn the receptor on. There are other molecules that can also bind to the receptor,
but they change the shape in a different way that leave the receptor off. These are
called inverse agonists. And then there are molecules that bind and don't change the shape
at all. And these are called neutral antagonists. So there's, and that's just, you know, those
are the three main ones. There's actually a large array of other interactions that the
molecules have, but I'll stop there.
I like that idea that you've got these spirals and the cannabinoid approaches the receptor
and those excite somehow and then reveal this lock that the cannabinoid may or may not have
the appropriate key for. Does the receptor get excited to reveal that lock to every cannabinoid?
That goes by that seems like that would use a lot of energy or does the receptor know
when it's being approached by the cannabinoid, if it's the right one that it should change
shape for.
So this is actually what's the most, like what's the most fascinating thing to me about
biochemistry is that nothing is conscious and nothing, these receptors and enzymes,
the proteins, all the signaling molecules, like the endocannabinoids, phyto cannabinoids,
like THC, CBD, serotonin, serotonin receptors, all of these, none of them are consciously
aware of things approaching or not approaching. Everything is just happening based on a chemical
equilibrium and everything actually in our whole entire bodies pretty much occurs due
to forces of enthalpy, which is energy and entropy, which is like a measurement of disorder
and chaos. And right, everything in the universe tends towards disorder and chaos. And between
those two factors, it's just like whether or not something is statistically likely to
so occur. So the receptor is sitting there. The receptor is in the membrane and it's empty.
And you could say that it's waiting for a molecule, but really it's just kind of floating
around. And then when you have THC molecules floating around at a certain concentration,
there will be enough THC molecules present that it will be energetically favorable for
it to bind to the receptor. And so what I mentioned earlier about the shape, the charges
and the fatty Velcro, hydrophobic interactions, those three things determine how energetically
favorable it is. So the affinity determines how little or how much you need of a certain
drug to cause the receptor to what you call to get excited. Because it's all based on
whether or not it's favorable. These things are just kind of floating around, like waiting
to interact and whether or not they interact depends entirely upon how closely they are
shaped to one another and attract one another.
So it's a non-conscious thing that is looking to continually bring the energies into balance.
And so it sounds like to a certain degree, how the likelihood of the receptor and the
cannabinoid to interact is a level of subtlety that might just be based on luck. I mean,
not to be, I mean, it sounds like that you need, it takes a little bit of luck. They're
going to put them next to each other, but we don't even necessarily know if it, that
if it's going to, if they're going to interact until they do.
Right. So, but rather than luck, it's, it's based on chemical affinity or properties. So
it's not luck because the receptor has a shape that happens to fit the molecule very
well. So if you think about it as like, okay, if you and I, if you and I are like boats
float, we're in two boats floating in the ocean and then there's like, we're bumping
into each other, whether or not the boats will stick to one another depends on how
strong the magnets and Velcro we have on the outside of the boats are to one another.
Right. So it's, it is exactly like you're saying, like luck in a certain sense, people
like the, the molecules are just kind of floating around, but whether or not it chooses
to interact and it's not necessarily a choice, it depends upon how strongly they're
attracted to one another by these, these chemical forces.
So it's, it's predetermined in some sense where the more of a molecule you add to the
solution, the more of them that are present, the higher the statistical chance or the
likelihood. And it is exactly as you described, although I wouldn't say that it's
luck. I would say it's, it's chemically and energetically favorable at the, at that
point.
I regretted using luck as soon as I said it, I'm like, I'm talking to a hard scientist.
I cannot use luck.
I get, I get what you're saying though. It is, it's not conscious though, which is, it
is something amazing to think about that. You know, if I go to snap my fingers, like,
you know, snap it and I snap my fingers, the chemical reactions that occur that allow me
to snap those fingers at a certain point, there, there is a conscious thought that goes
into beginning that cascade, but all of the molecular interactions that occur are
actually just energetically favorable.
So far, I'm glad that when we, you know, we go to snap, the probabilities are that it
happens, you know, pretty much without fail.
Exactly. And all of those probabilities are predetermined by our signaling systems and
receptors. And I mean, that's just how amazing it's miraculous to me. I mean, it's,
it's amazing that we can think about snapping our fingers and that, you know, for most of
us, and most of the time, if you know how to snap your fingers, it'll just happen.
So let's, let's pull out a levels of magnitude a little bit. So how many of these
cannabinoid receptors do we have in our body? Because, you know, it's, it's a lot of
people, you know, when I, when I was brought into cannabis medicine, I was taught that
the number of receptors you have are not related to body weight. It has everything to
do with your particular ability and likelihood to grow more receptors. But more and more
But more and more within dosing, I'm seeing from people giving dosing recommendations
based on body weight, which, as far as I'm aware, doesn't match the science as I learned
it five, six years ago. So what is the state of the art now about how many of these
receptors we have? And if there's any relationship to body mass?
So I don't, I can't say this for absolute fact, but I do not think that the number of
receptors are related to your, your body mass, like at all. And they change all the
time. That's another thing that we're not like, well aware of, and that we're still
figuring out is that there are a lot of interactions with our environment and with
our diet. And yes, using cannabis that change the density, what's called a receptor
density for CB1 receptors. And, you know, and also something you pointed out is how
many, how many receptors do we have? Normally, we talk a lot about CB1. Sometimes
we'll talk about the CB2 receptor, which is generally attributed to the immune system,
but we rarely talk about the other receptors beyond that, which, you know, there's,
there's multiples. And there's also receptors that we originally classified in
different systems that interact with the endocannabinoid system. And, you know, this
is going to get a little bit into the weeds here in terms of like separating out
different receptor types for, for specific purposes. But I personally don't believe
that the systems are separated at all. The endocannabinoid system is integrally linked
to the serotonin system, the dopamine system, I mean, all pretty the GABA system. There's
actually an endocannabinoid that is dopamine plus arachidonil acid. It's, it's, there's
a, there's a serotonin, um, arachidonilamine to ethanolamine as well. I mean, there's,
those are like rare endocannabinoids and we, we don't research them as much as we've
researched or we haven't yet researched them as much as we've researched the other
ones. But it also is fascinating because the CB1 receptors and the CB2 receptors have been
shown to dimerize, which means they bind to receptors in other systems, like for the dopamine,
it'd be the D2 receptor. And, and it's been shown that if they dimerize and if there's
more than one type of receptor, that it will have a different effect. And so we're still
in the, even though receptor pharmacology has, there's been a lot of work and a lot
of amazing progress, I still think we're in the early, you know, in the early stages of
understanding these receptors, how they interact with each other. Um, and then to, to go further
into your question about like dosing and, and knowing how much is good for someone,
I really don't think that there's any way to judge that from the outside. Um, I, I can't
think of any way that you would know, honestly, other than starting small and starting with
the least amount possible and titrating up slowly until you get your desired effect. Um,
because everybody's so different, right? Yes, exactly. And especially with the endocannabinoid
system, it's a chicken or an egg situation where since it's so connected to the other
systems, any change in any of those systems will cause changes in the endocannabinoid
system. Um, there is this theory, it's a theory, although I believe there's a lot of evidence
for it, um, that many of us have what's called clinical endocannabinoid deficiency, which
means that we have less circulating endocannabinoids, which actually means we have more cannabinoid
receptors. Um, and this can cause a slew of problems from like GI issues, mental health,
chronic pain. Um, and it's, you know, it's still, it's still in the early stages to being,
we're, we're still early to being able to understand all of this and how genetics play
a role in, into this. Um, when we, when we had, uh, Dr. Russo on a few months back and
well, heck probably a few years back now, we had him on to talk about his, uh, clinical
endocannabinoid deficiency paper. And, um, he, he talked about this, this evolving idea
of the, uh, uh, endocannabinoid tone, the cannabinoid tone. And, and he said at the
time that, you know, we weren't really sure how we were going to measure it, but, but
people were starting to use this vocabulary to talk about the general, I don't know,
veracity of the endocannabinoids present in the body, you know, whether you had many or
whether or not you had few or, or whether or not your system was sluggish. Um, but we
haven't talked to him about that in a long time. And, and I know you're not Dr. Russo.
So I'm asking for your opinion, not, not a his of course, but, um, what are you seeing
as the state of the science? Because, you know, you are, you are a re you know, a more
recent PhD and you are in the trenches doing, you know, basic cannabinoid science every
day. Does this idea of the cannabinoid tone, is it, is it still being played with or have
we moved past that?
I mean, I believe that I have low endocannabinoid tone and I know other scientists
who feel the same way. I mean, it's, it's really, there is no way of clinically testing
it yet. You know, if I went to my doctor and I asked, Hey, can you check the level of my
endocannabinoids? Um, first of all, they don't have a blank stare, a test to do that.
But, you know, second of all, it's, it's really, really difficult to measure the
endocannabinoids because they, um, they degrade, they oxidize really, really easily
there. It's, it's difficult. So there are many reasons why the endocannabinoid system
has been, um, a little bit sluggish in research behind like other salt systems, like
serotonin and dopamine are like salt based systems. You know, you're cooking in the
kitchen, it's easier to clean a glass that had salt water in it than it is to clean a
glass that had like butter mixed with maple syrup in it. And it's the same when you get
to the molecular scale. So if not, if not, maybe even a little bit more difficult when
things get sticky. Um, but in going back to the endocannabinoid tone and the state of
it, um, I think that there is a lot more research coming out. Like more recently, um,
I've seen some more clinical data on, um, you know, different instances of people with
chronic health conditions where they're finding, hey, this has, they have low
endocannabinoids. Like the ones that come to mind are autism spectrum disorder and
PTSD. Um, both there have been clinical studies for both of those populations that
show that you have a decreased amount of circulating endocannabinoids. Um, and with
PTSD, they've actually shown that that either it's a chicken or an egg, there's an
increase in the number of CB1 receptors. And so in theory, if you were, you know, to
have a clinical endocannabinoid deficiency and like, you know, I'll just talk about
myself. I believe I have low endocannabinoids. I don't, I don't make enough of them. Um,
and this is how cannabis helps me because the molecules in cannabis mimic the
endocannabinoids. And so I have a sub threat. I have a low level of endocannabinoids and
it causes me a myriad of symptoms really. And if I use cannabis products, my body is
feeling like a restoration of balance because even though I'm low in endocannabinoids,
I'm giving my body phytocannabinoids that restore that, that signaling. I don't know
if that is that click. That makes sense.
Yeah, absolutely. As a matter of fact, I would think that just about everybody is
experiencing a endocannabinoid deficiency. If you look at what the general causes are,
which are, you know, generally, uh, you know, stress, questionable street sleep,
questionable nutrition, environmental toxins, and immune suppressing pharmaceuticals. I
mean, that's American life.
It's funny you mentioned nutrition because the, I mean, the endocannabinoids are omega
six fatty acids. And yeah, we often, we often don't think about how, you know,
pushing for a certain, uh, you know, high carb, low fat diets would affect your endocannabinoid
tone. I mean, most, yeah, I agree. It's most people potentially have a deficiency.
And the only thing to say though, is that like, you don't know this, right? I mean, this
is the only thing left clinically is to, to actually go in there and figure it out. And I
think it's, it's in progress to go all the way back to answering the question. Um, it is in
progress. And I do believe I have spoken to many people who believe that endocannabinoid
deficiency is real. Um, and so far in terms of like a theory and calling it a theory, there
hasn't been anything to refute it. Um, so that's important.
So here around here, we pretty much take it as fact. So it's interesting actually to hear, you
know, um, uh, frontline scientists, like you referring to it as a theory, cause we're all
like sold already, you know?
So, yeah, I mean, yeah, gravity, I mean, gravity is a theory.
Well, good point. So, so let's talk, you really attracted my attention when you said that over
the course of our lives, the amount and sorts of receptors that we have come and go, that's
super interesting to me. And then the part that, um, you know, you mentioned that the
cannabinoids are, are fatty acids. And, um, last episode we had, um, Dr. Chris Spooner on,
and he was encouraging everybody to take a fish oil supplements as a, as a way to support
your endocannabinoid system.
So I'm going to give you kind of like a, a big, big area question and you can take it where
you wish. I'm curious to know if our receptors increase and decrease during our lives, are
they, is, is this increase and decrease more related to, well, I guess I want to know what
factors are, right? Is it, is it age? Is it diet? Is it everything? Because most of us
want to, I would think want to increase the number of receptors in our body so that we can
process more cannabinoids for our overall health. And so we would want to build those up.
And if there are things that we can do or awareness is we should have at times that have
life that the, the number of receptors would go down, that would probably be good information
for us to know.
Absolutely. And I, and I do want to point out that for some people, it would be good to have
your receptor levels actually go down, which would be like making more endocannabinoids.
It's all about a balance. So you're trying to find, you're trying to find the right balance.
And some of us have too many receptors and some of us have not, not enough. And it's
interesting about the omega-3 for fish oil supplements. My, my very first research project
ever was looking at omega-3 and omega-6 dietary fatty acids in, in mice. And seeing like what
changes that had on, on a cosanoids and which are downstream of the endocannabinoids. And I
think, so in terms of what causes the changes in receptor density, I mean, there's a number of
factors. Age is certainly a factor. I lean away from just saying everything because that's
just a non-answer, right? But unfortunately it's, it's pretty much true. But I mean, age is
certainly a fast factor because the endocannabinoid system is really important for a
huge number of very important processes, right? Like the, the basic, the basic ones are
metabolism, immune system, and inflammation, and then overall brain activity, brain
hyperactivity. So those are really, really important tasks and they have different needs
depending on whether or not we're still growing as we're children or as we, you know, as we age
and mature. So age is certainly a factor and it does change. The other factor that you
mentioned, stress, stress is a factor. Because cortisol and elevated levels of stress factors in
the brain will change it. And, and this is where we get into the chicken and the egg. Because it's
hard to know whether like, whether the endocannabinoid system and the dysregulation of
it is the source of the problem or whether it's a symptom. However, an unbalanced, a quote unquote,
like unbalanced or dysregulated endocannabinoid system has been associated with almost every
single disorder or pathology. Like, I don't think I can think of a single one that hasn't been
associated with the endocannabinoid system other than like genetic mutations or genetic disorders
that have a very clear like molecular mechanism.
And it's funny, because that's kind of a challenge, right? Because it's great to have this one herb
that can help us in so many ways. But it also has caused so many people to say, Oh, what is with this
cannabis medicine? They talk about it like it's a panacea, like it's like it solves everything. And
and what I try to tell people is like, no, it doesn't solve everything. It just solves one thing.
But that one thing is the endocannabinoid system, and it touches all the systems. It makes it very
hard for people to believe.
That's, that's a great way of putting it the way the way that I usually explain it is that, you
know, the cannabinoids are really powerful anti inflammatory. And it's my personal belief that
almost all of these disorders come from like dysregulations and inflammation and not, not
inflammation in terms of like, oh, I sprained my ankle. And now my ankle has swollen up and is
inflamed. But, you know, at the cellular and molecular level, inflammation is just inflammatory
signaling molecules. And like you said about about, you know, endocannabinoid tone being kind
of an American, having low endocannabinoid tone being an American feature, there's, there's a lot
of evidence that shows that having high in systemic inflammation is is a problem. And that we
don't really have any way of knowing or understanding where we're at on our threshold until
we remove something, right. So it's like, like speaking from my personal experience, like I have a
lot of inflammation all the time, stress causes inflammation, and then also like chronic pain
inflammation, GI inflammation. There's so many things with which I think inflammation plays a
mechanistic factor, because it's, I mean, in terms of our immune system, like what is
inflammation at the molecular level, it really is the most basic way that our body signals to
itself, hey, something is wrong here. Like, if you think of it as like, one cell trying to talk to
another cell in the body, when it releases inflammatory, like inflammatory factors, it's
trying, this is one part of your body, one single cell, trying to tell the other part of your body,
hey, something's wrong here. And so having super high levels of inflammation causes just a large
number of problems. And we often get like desensitized to it, because we're just living with
systemically high inflammation. And so when yes, cannabis has, like, you know, people are saying,
oh, it's a cure all, I do not believe it's a cure all. But I do believe that it's a powerful
anti inflammatory, and that inflammation plays a crucial role in most disorders and is really, you
know, not like underappreciated, but it's just that it's not really talked about as inflammation,
because in the general public, when we think of inflammation, we think of like a swollen lip, or, or
a bruised ankle,
not the signaling version of it.
Exactly. And inflammation is probably the most basic cellular response to stress that any type of life has,
and that we developed, it's, it's part of what's called the, the innate immune system. So like our
immune systems have two different two different sides of it. And inflammation is the most basic
side. And so cannabis helps by being a powerful anti inflammatory. And there are so many symptoms that
are mechanistically related to systemic inflammation.
So if we've been talking about how the endocannabinoid system is actually integrated with
all the systems, and I like what you said early on that, you know, you, you actually see it all as one
system, not really as discrete parts, because they're all there's so much interplay. And, and in
passing, we all just kind of say, oh, you know, the endocannabinoid system is the body's homeostasis
device. It's, you know, if something's running hot, it cools it down. If something's sluggish, it
picks it up. Well, that's, that's great, as far as like copywriting goes, right. But what happens at a
more chemical level, like, like we did earlier on? What what happens that what, what is the method of
action that the endocannabinoid system takes to create homeostasis?
So I would say the tip, and it's different in different parts of the body and different parts of
the brain, it could even be different. But the number one, like most generic way of describing it
would be that it, it can quiet, like different cells, and it tells things to be quiet. So sometimes
you hear people saying like, oh, cannabis makes you slow, or cannabis reduces your brain activity.
You know, technically, that's true. But that's not always a bad thing. Because sometimes there's too
much brain activity, and it's desirable to quiet parts of the brain that are not supposed to be
speaking. So if you think about the way that we're talking about, I'm talking about signaling now from
one brain cell to another brain cell, you could think about it as a one way street, or like, have
you ever played the game telephone? Sure. Where Yeah, where one person whispers in someone's ear
and then and so on. And it's, it's one direction. That's how neurotransmitters fire. So they go from
when you have one, they're like an end to end daisy chain. Yes, that's exactly the end to end.
And you have one neuron, and then you have what's called a synapse, which is the place or the space
between the neuron. And then you have the other end. So you have a speaking neuron and a listening.
Now, does that make sense? There's a talking a talking side and then a listening side. So the
pre synapse before is the talking side. And the post synapse is the listening side. And for all
of the classic neurotransmitters, they fire from the pre synapse across the synapse to the
post synapse. So they go from speaking side to listening side. And the endocannabinoids are the
only molecules that go the opposite direction. And so the endocannabinoids are created in the
post synapse on the listening side. And they transport across the synapse in what's called a
retrograde fashion, like opposite, and they go to the pre synapse. So essentially, if you have a long
daisy chain, if let's say in your telephone line of one way daisy chains, you have one telephone
in there that's talking way too loud or way too much. The only way for us to quiet it other than
finding a way to go all the way around the daisy chain again to quiet it is through the
endocannabinoid system, which talks in the opposite direction and says, Hey, like, can you just be
quiet? And what is sent? What what is actually sent? Is that a particular chemical that sent
upstream? And then endocannabinoids? Oh, there is the endocannabinoid itself. And so
then it goes and it will interact with a receptor there. And then, and then depending on the nature
of how it's talking, it'll either be agonist or antagonist or a, would you say reverse agonist?
Inverse agonist. So all the all the endocannabinoids are some, not all of them,
but the main ones and endomite and 2AG are agonist partial agonist at the at the cannabinoid receptors.
So if we're going back to the the pre synapse and post synapse, the talking and the listening end,
you have the endocannabinoids, they get created on the listening end, and then the receptors are on
the talking end. So they are being transported across the synapse. They bind to the receptors
and they activate them. And when you activate the cannabinoid receptors, it activates this
very specific G protein that is inhibitory. And that G protein follows a signaling cascade that
ultimately it changes the voltage. All of all of our cells have a voltage potential. It's like an,
it's an electrical potential to fire. So if you think about it, like whether or not a brain cell,
let's say this brain cell is firing way too often. If you then synthesize the endocannabinoids and
then they activate the cannabinoid receptors, the cannabinoid receptors will change the voltage
of that entire cell so that it's less likely to fire.
I follow this. So, and please ask me a question.
I'm just catching up. So, so, and because it's less likely to fire, that is its response to
the up chain saying, shh, like, don't talk so much. That's really great. You know,
I mean, I mean, I'd be I really am. There's actually liberation in this information. I can't
be the only one listening to you going, oh my God, I've wondered this for so long.
But most people are most people don't have this education and to have it be so contemporary
that they can speak to us in this level of detail. So this is, this is really fantastic.
So thank you. And we are going to go ahead and take our first break.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is cannabis scientist and educator,
Miyabi Shields. There is no doubt that auto flowering cannabis plants have finally come
into their own and night owl seeds works tirelessly, bringing you auto flower genetics
that are reliable, thriving, and with extraordinary terpene profiles. Night owl seeds is an industry
leader because of the focus work of their founder, Daz. Daz is passionate about the cannabis plant
and pushing what auto flowers can do. And cultivators know that these efforts show
through in his seeds and night owl seeds really are extraordinary. Just take a look at the
thousands of photos and by fans on Instagram, the proof is there and obvious terpenes are complex
and rich plants have vigor. If you are a fan of Mephisto genetics, like I am, you'll likely also
love night owl seeds. Night owl founder Daz worked with Mitch Mephisto to build the Mephisto brand
for years, including breeding Mephisto's much loved sour stomper and cosmic queen cultivars.
I'm growing both night owl and Mephisto this year because I want the best. And night owl
seeds knows how to cultivate community too. Daz puts out great stickers, exclusive packaging for
limited runs, and desirable freebies. He really draws you in if you love creative branding.
Night owl even has the secret owl society text club. Just text the word night owl,
one word, to 760-670-3130 for early announcements and exclusive opportunities.
Of course, you can see lots of photos and find out about upcoming drops by following
the night owl seeds Instagram too, at daz.nightowl. That's D-A-Z.nightowl.
You can get your packs of night owl seeds at several distributors, including DC Seed Exchange,
Insane Seeds, and Hembra Genetics. That's night owl seeds. There's a difference because we're
different. For 20 years, Humboldt Seed Company has been family-owned in providing reliable,
high-yielding seeds originating in Northern California. While the current trend is to slap
one super male into a line of hype strains, Humboldt Seed Company continues to breed with
precision and care by doing large sifts and back crosses to emphasize the absolute best
traits that a line has to offer. This kind of breeding takes time, talent, and space to work.
No matter what kind of aroma you are particularly into, Humboldt Seed will likely have something
you'll love. If you love fruit, you can choose from banana, mango, apricot, papaya, blueberry,
blood orange, melon, and lemons across their various strains. They have all gas, glue,
and classic sour diesel lines as well. Of course, there are the Heritage California strains like OG
Kush, Jack Herr, and Headband, and their award-winning blueberry muffin is one that delights
just about everybody's palate, especially when concentrated. Humboldt Seed Company is proud to
bring to market the infamous freak show cultivar 2, which has a great THC high but looks so much
like a fern that some folks can't even identify it as cannabis. It's a plant that really needs to be
seen to be believed. If you're looking for well-balanced CBD seeds, Humboldt Seed Company can
turn you on to CBD strains that actually have flavor, like the dill and pepper terpenes of
Willie G's Lebanese Landrace. Whether you are looking for regular, feminized, or autoflowers,
Humboldt Seed Company has the gear to make this your best growing cycle ever. Visit humboldtseedcompany.com
today to check out their line of vigorous genetics, download their catalog, and find out where you can
pick them up. You can also check out their Instagram at the humboldtseedcompany to check out their
gorgeous flowers and the extraordinary freak show plant. Humboldt Seed Company, let them know Shango sent you.
If you're an autoflowering cannabis enthusiast, this event's for you.
Announcing the 2021 Autoflower Cup, August 6th, 7th, and 8th in Lilloop, Washington, just outside of Seattle.
Presented by Camp Ruderales, this gathering has something for everyone. There's the Autoflower Cup
competition, of course, but it's so much more than that. There'll be a Stunden Glass Hookah Lounge,
a pop-up Magical Butter Chocolate Shop, and Waterfront Marketplace with an array of vendors.
There will be an old-school autoflower seed swap, joint rolling competition, cannabis cooking demos,
solventless squishing demos, and late-night documentary screenings of both Dosed and
Fantastic Fungi. The food will be lit, too, including Chef Sebastian Carosi's award-winning
classics like Elk Chili, Kobe Beef Kimchi Dogs, Oyster Po' Boys, and Razor Clam Chowder. Enjoy the
Campfire Chili and Oyster Chowder Cook-Off, wild oyster harvesting, mushroom foraging, and s'mores
around the campfires each night. Each day there, Dan Jimmy of Mandalorian will teach about autoflowers,
and there will be presentations on closet cultivation and hunting for psilocybin mushrooms.
The competition is open to everyone, commercial and home growers. There's a category for
photo-period plants, too, so check out theautoflowercup2021.com for those details.
Clearly, there will be plenty of cannabis around, but due to state law, it won't be supplied by the
event. But there will be easy public toking, which is why this is a strictly over-21 event.
You can camp, rent a cabin, or stay at a local Airbnb. Glamping and RV packages are available,
too. I'm happy to say that Shaping Fire is a sponsor of the event, and I'll be there, too.
I look forward to connecting with other autoflower fans like me. So get all the details at
theautoflowercup2021.com and follow the Instagram at theautoflowercup2021. And I'll see you in
August at Autoflower Cup when we bring the autoflower family together to celebrate.
Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire. I am your host,
Shango Los. And our guest this week is cannabis scientist and educator,
Miyabi Shields. So during the first set, we were talking about the endocannabinoid system itself,
the system of receptors and how they work to keep our body in homeostasis. Clearly,
we could have continued on on that topic. It's so fascinating. But we're going to shift a little
bit during the second set and focus on individual cannabinoids. Because since most of what we try
to learn here on Shaping Fire are things that we can use either for our own health or for the health
of the people that we love, we try to keep things very usable, very actionable information. So let's
start talking about individual cannabinoids. So, Miyabi, most of us have seen the chart
showing how cannabinoids degrade from starting as CBG or CBN and then degrading down into other
cannabinoids when exposed to time or heat, I believe it is. So it's not really usually explained
why, though. And I've seen on your TikTok many times you play with the molecular models,
and I know you've got an intimate understanding of this. So if you'd walk us through it,
what is happening and why is it happening at the chemical level?
All right, so we're going to basically go all the way back and just talk about how that everything
in the universe, I mentioned earlier that in the body, everything comes down to a chemical
equilibrium. But actually, this applies to everything in the entire universe, pretty much.
Although I'm not sure about, I'm not sure if you go way out into space, if that applies. But
but pretty much everything comes down to basically energy and entropy. So the reason why these
molecules degrade is because if you leave them open to oxygen, so let's let me back up. If you
were to have the molecules by themselves, like in a complete vacuum, and or you can add what we call
like an inert gas, which is like argon or helium, it's a gas that is non reactive. If you were to
have the molecule, and it were to be kept in the dark, in some either a vacuum or a gas that's
non volatile, and if it were to be kept very, very cold, like as cold as you possibly could keep it,
it in theory, would be stable that way forever. The only reason why things degrade with heat,
light and exposure to air and oxygen is because even though we see air around us, and we don't
think anything of it, there's a lot of things floating around in the air, mostly oxygen and
nitrogen, and some other forms like carbon dioxide, and other depending on where you are,
and what's in your air, right. But you know, if you've heard that, the story where it's like,
hey, you ask the fish, how's the water and the fish goes like, what's water? Yeah, we're,
we're pretty much the same way with air. So we don't really think too much about it. But there's
plenty of things in air that when you expose them over time, will will come to have a chemical
reaction with these molecules. And the cannabinoids are quite stable. But there are certain areas of
it that are prone to oxidation, that's the main chemical reaction that occurs. And then slowly,
from there, things will continue to break down because oxygen is pretty reactive. In terms of
like the types of, of molecule or the types of atoms that you introduce, it introduces charges,
whenever you have charges around, they're likely to interact with other charges. And that's,
that's the reason. So the reason why it occurs is just that it's, it's chemically favorable. So
that's another reason why if you heat, if you heat things, you're giving them energy, and it just
happens faster. So the reason why heat is a factor is just because it adds energy into the system
heats up the process, exactly for this thing to occur that would have occurred regardless.
And yeah, there's, I guess, if you look at a molecule, there are certain areas of certain
molecules that are more vulnerable to degradation or to like an attack of an outside molecule.
And all of these things depend on how these atoms are linked together, and how stable that link is
to one another. Because if you think about it, if you have seen my videos, and you see the molecules
are held together by these little plastic, you know, they're just bonded together by these little
plastic strings. In my model, all of those pieces of plastic look the same. But in real life, they're
all different. And they're, they're different strengths, like some of the atoms are held
together by a fishing line, and others are held together by steel poles. So so different cannabinoids
have got their weak spot where they're at the most risk. Yep. And that that will change when you
once you introduce a, you oxidize it, then everything changes again. And that's one of the
things I found so fascinating about chemistry, in the beginning is just this crazy, crazy amount of
versatility, and small, small changes in molecular structure cause giant changes, you know, downstream.
So let's talk about the the time of efficacy for, you know, two of our most favorite cannabinoids,
THC and CBD. So, excuse me, so for for caregivers everywhere, we're often trying to explain to our
patient, you know, the timeframe that they're going to get relief. And, you know, most, most cannabis
patients that especially at the beginning, they don't have a really good understanding of the
endocannabinoid system. And honestly, most caregivers, even the ones with their heart in
the right place might not have that great of an understanding of the endocannabinoid system.
They just know how to apply the medicine in ways that tend to get relief. And for that,
everyone is grateful. However, you know, there are faster acting cannabinoids, and there there are,
there seem to be slower action of the cannabinoids as well. And I'm going to give you
an example that's pretty common for caregivers to talk about, which I'm open to the possibility that
this is not true, right? So you don't have to defend my position. If this is wrong, like call
it out. But very often when we talk about CBD, people talk about benefits that you get now and
benefits you get later. For example, if you are having, you know, an anxious day full of rumination,
you can take some, you know, whole plant CBD, and, you know, something with CBD dominant,
and it will, you know, have a tendency to correct the balance of chemicals and or, you know, hit the
receptors that that that decrease your experience of dysphoria of anxiety. So, so, so that would be
your benefit potentially today. But over the long term, for example, after somebody has been taking
CBD for, you know, four or six weeks, I'll often hear back from them and they'll say, Oh, yeah,
you know, I, I started taking CBD for my migraines. But then the diarrhea that I've had for three
years, clear it up. And and I explained to them, you know, in layman's terms, that one of the
properties of a strong endocannabinoid system is that the system goes through and does housekeeping
like cleaning the cilia and the gut of the mucus. And so there's, there's essentially gifts with
purchase when you when you take CBD, things that you never intended, but which are totally great
to have. So I'm very open to the possibility that there's scientific mess in that example,
Miyabi. So, so, so feel free to, you know, correct me. But, but essentially, the part I'm trying to
get at is cannabinoids seems to have help now and help later. How does how what's up with that from
your viewpoint as a scientist? So I would say that, first of all, that it's not it's absolutely not a
pseudoscience, and that it's definitely true that there are different types of effects that are
separated. So help now would be what you would call an acute effect. That's something that's
happening immediately. So we're going to use CBD as the example. CBD actually has very low affinity
for the CB1 and CB2 receptors, but it has been shown to be what's called an allosteric modulator
at the CB1 receptor, which is just a fancy way for saying it like binds to a different location.
But let's use CBD as an example. So the acute effect of CBD is when you are actually taking
the CBD, and like it happens within like, let's say if you take it, if you take it orally, like in
a tincture or an edible, you know, it takes 45 minutes to an hour, and then like maybe it lasts
like two hours, maybe four hours, that those effects that you feel right then are acute effects.
So that's the effect of the molecule binding to the outside of the CB1 receptor, and it actually
decreases the CB1 receptors activity. That would be an acute effect. The help later that you
described, help now being acute effect, help later is what's called a, it's like a longer term effect.
This actually comes from how our body restructures itself. Our body does housekeeping, like you
mentioned the endocannabinoid system does housekeeping. Our body goes through all of its
systems and does housekeeping. Pretty much you're in a constant state of managing what is happening
now and what's going to happen in the future. And what your body does when let's say you're
taking a little bit of CBD, I take a bit of CBD every day. And what my body has done over time,
it is, it's responded to that happening. So I get the acute effects from taking CBD every day,
but then there's also these secondary long-term effects that happen later, which is your body
restructuring and changing certain levels of receptors and changing certain levels of
endocannabinoids and other, like highly likely other signaling molecules like serotonin.
And actually this may seem like a little bit like scary that there's these two types of effects, but
that's pretty much the entire premise of like SSRIs and anti, like you know mood, mood stabilizing
medications. Many of those also function in the same way where they take a few weeks to, to see
actually whether or not they're going to, you know, have, have a beneficial effect because they
work on this, what is a secondary mechanism that's a longer term thing. So our bodies do these things.
So every single receptor when it's, when it's activated, we'll eventually go through a process
to, to inactivate it. Part of this is our body takes it, it's called endocytosis and our body
like recycles the receptors. You could think about it as like a recycling program. And if you think
about it as a recycling program, every time our body recycles these receptors, it's kind of like
counting and taking into account how many of each type is being recycled.
And then it will adjust the amount that it creates like in, in response to that.
That's, that's incredible. It's, it's, it's, it's, I mean, I know we don't want to put too
much consciousness into these processes, but it's like a thinking machine itself. It's self
calibrating based on what our body needs. And I love that. Oh, absolutely. I mean, yeah,
it's between knowing that things are happening completely like based on just chance or luck,
as you put it earlier, but as I was putting it chemical, like chemical affinity and energy,
everything is happening based on that. But it's, it's this magical combination that is quite
conscious. I mean, there is the reason why this is happening is to try and keep us well and to try
to keep us alive and functioning. And life is miraculous in that way. Before we move on,
I want to hit on one more example of this acute versus longer term impacts. And let's talk about
THC with inflammation, since you sound like you're very deep on inflammation as well. So
we talk about THC being useful both in the moment acutely for inflammation pain,
and then long term for inflammation as well. And for lack of having heard a better explanation,
how I normally ask how I normally explain it to patients when they stop me, you know, like after
a talk or something, I'll say, well, you know, if you take THC now, even at sub sub perceptual doses,
you are decreasing some inflammation now, but even more so you're decreasing your experience
of the pain that comes from inflammation now, which makes you feel like you have less inflammation.
But then if you keep on taking THC every three or four hours, the natural anti inflammation
characteristics of THC keep on for lack of a better term beating down on the inflammation
and or shushing, I guess, you know, telling telling those receptors to be quiet. And then over time,
the inflammation goes down because the those cells are not yelling as much that there is a problem.
So I don't know if that's the correct science. But there does seem to be this dichotomy between
THC is helping an inflammation patient now in the next three hours, versus a month from now,
when they've been taking THC all that time. And they're all like, gosh, you know, my my
arthritis is significantly improved. Oh, absolutely. One of I guess what I would say
this has to do with is that inflammation is like a threshold or an exponential response where you
feel pain above a certain threshold, right? of inflammation and your body responds to that by
firing like, let's just call it like a pain signaling. It's like a it's like a chain,
depending on where your inflammation is. So actually, rheumatoid arthritis runs in my family.
And I wake up with stiff fingers all the time right now. And the pain would originate in the
nerves in my hand. So the inflammation originates in your hand and that but you actually feel the
pain in your brain, right? So it's true that they have anti inflammatory properties. It's also true
that if you reduce inflammation, and you decrease the amount of pain that you feel overall,
that you're decreasing the strength of the pathway of pain, which is something that's,
you know, it's difficult. It's a difficult topic, and it's difficult to prove.
But there's this saying that have that people neuroscientists say it all the time you say,
I don't know if you've heard it, but it's neurons that fire together wire together.
That's this is the this is the saying, because when you have brain cells that are in a circuit,
and they're used to firing in this circuit, they become stronger. So actually, if you think about
them as like roads, if you imagine like when you're if your brain is totally naive, it's like
a desert or an area and there's there's no roads, there's no point from A to B. So everything's just
a dirt path, you start making the dirt paths. But then over time, you start using this one path
more and more and more, let's say that's the pathway for inflammatory pain, right? Your body
becomes really sensitized to that path, because you're using it so much that it's not a dirt road
anymore, it turns into a street that then turns into a major highway that then turns it turns into
the fastest route of signaling. And our brain cells are like that. So when they fire together,
they wire together more tightly, and it's easier for them to go down these pathways.
And so it's interesting, specifically with pain, it's so difficult to piece apart, whether or not
it's inflammation, certainly, but also whether it's it's a sensitization to your body even even
feeling pain. And this is I don't have the answers for this either. This is just, you know,
me talking out loud thinking about inflammation and how people feel inflammation and pain because
like, from from my perspective, I have chronic joint pain, I have a lot of form, I have a lot of
injuries, that I've been told that these injuries are the cause of my pain. But I've also had a lot
of scans and things where I didn't disclose to anyone that I had prior injuries, and no one can
see anything structurally wrong with any, any part of it. And there's this, there's this piece that I
guess you cannot prove, which is where is the sensitization, like, where is the sensitization to
pain? Part of it is in the inflammatory factors, which is the acute effect, which you were saying
part of it is that that first effect, which is that there are inflammatory factors there, and
that cannabis can help by reducing that inflammation. And then the second part of it is breaking the
cycle of firing your pain cells all the time, or your pain signaling pathway all the time, because
like, the less than your body uses that pathway, the less likely it will be to sort of follow down
that pathway. You know, I've been talking a lot about just like entropy and chemical, like
statistical chance of something happening and, and everything in the body just runs downhill.
So, if it's meaning like the easiest path forward, yes. And if it's the easiest path for your body
to feel pain, because your body has been in pain for years and years and years, it will be difficult
to break that cycle without removing the pain. And then there's obviously the fact that some,
there are some aspects of pain that are structural that are caused that the cannabinoids can only
help so much with, right? Like if you have a nerve impingement, or something that's actually like
something that's actually like causing like a physical cause, something that's mechanically
wrong. But I think for from my opinion, a big piece of the long term benefits of cannabis for
chronic pain is breaking this cycle. And also, in what I mentioned earlier in the in the quieting,
or the shushing of the cells, because some of us are hypersensitive to a lot. I mean, I'm,
I'm hypersensitive to a lot of stimuli, not just not just pain, but other types of things to write
like auditory stimuli, or like certain types of like tactile feelings. And, you know, we,
we don't know between between person to person it you can't tell what someone's threshold for pain
is because pain is completely subjective. You know, we we can only feel what we feel in in our
bodies, which is why those pain charts are always so unsatisfying, you know, I feel seven today or
six, or sometimes they show, you know, stick drawing faces. It's like, Oh, gosh, this is a
fool's errand from the beginning. Right? And as speaking from someone who's pretty much lived,
like my entire life at like a five or above, like at a, at a certain point, it just starts becoming
like a status quo and your body actually, your body actually can think of it that way. If that
if that makes sense, like your body gets into these patterns that it will perpetuate. And I
think that in some ways, that's, that's a way that the cannabinoids can help is by decreasing
that that sensitivity. And then there's there's another follow up piece, which is that the
cannabinoids and the metabolite. So we talked about THC, and you mentioned that, like, you know,
there's an onset of action, and then it's metabolized by the body. And it's it is
sequestered away in our fat, and it gets stored in our fat. And that's that's one of the reasons why
you can test positive on a on a drug test for weeks and weeks afterwards, is because our body
still is processing and releasing these metabolites. So if you're using over a longer course of time,
then you have a buildup of these metabolites. It's something called like the depot effect,
it's actually something that is harnessed for other medications, like birth control is the
first one that comes to mind, utilizes the depot effect for like a long term release, essentially.
So that's a whole nother mechanism in which like a long term effect of cannabis can can build up and
be slowly released. Because even though those metabolites are not psychoactive, it doesn't
mean that they're not still circulating at low levels causing like anti inflammatory effects.
And that's something that I think is, is possible. But to my knowledge, I don't know if either of
those things have been like proven, right on, I follow that. So let's talk about tolerance breaks
for a moment. So we understand that tolerance breaks are good so that we can increase our
sensitivity to cannabinoids. And we also know that anybody who works with patients knows that
trying to convince a patient to go on a tolerance break is very difficult. Because if you know,
for a lot of people, they get to cannabis last. And then when it works, they're all like, well,
none of the pharma works without terrible side effects. And they hold on to cannabis so dearly.
And now we're telling them to, you know, take 237 days off, which seems unreal. And I think
every all of us who work with patients would would be served by having a better understanding of what
happens at a chemical level during a tolerance break so that we can make it more, you know,
more real, more mechanical for the patient that we're trying to encourage to give up their most
effective medication for a few days. So will you go through what happens in our body during a
tolerance break? Yep, absolutely. So when, when you are using cannabis regularly, and so I use
cannabis regularly, and I regularly take tolerance breaks. And when you're using it regularly, what
your body does have a compensatory reaction, which is what I was describing earlier is it decreases
the level of CB1 receptors that are present. And this is kind of an oversimplification,
simplification, because there are other changes that occur too. But for the most part, when you
have that decrease in CB1 receptors, you notice it because you have to increase the amount of
cannabis that you use to get the same effect, right. And this is at the this is kind of at the
crutch of tolerance is you, your body has less and less CB1 receptors. And actually, you know,
I personally believe that a certain level of tolerance is beneficial for me, I maintain a low
level of tolerance, like I never, I never take a tolerance break to completely resensitize.
Because if I completely resensitize, my body goes 100% the opposite direction. And it makes way too
many CB1 receptors. So essentially, when you're talking to, or what would be my opinion, if I was
talking to cannabis patients about tolerance breaks, and why they're necessary, it's because
you're trying to balance the endocannabinoid system. And when you use cannabis every day,
you're constantly lowering not constantly, it doesn't happen like super quickly, like not to
don't want to make anyone look paranoid. But you're lowering your level of CB1 receptors.
Right, like that, as you use cannabis, if you use it every day, you use it over time, you're going
to be lowering those CB1 receptors. When you go on a tolerance break, it allows your body to make
more CB1 receptors and increase them again. And you're kind of always shooting to find a sweet
spot. And if you just continuously use cannabis, and you'd never take a tolerance break, you're
continuously developing tolerance, and you're going to be continuously lowering your CB1
density. And for some people, there's not a huge downside to that. But for others, there's big
negative side effects. And it all depends on the patient and what their goals are. Right? Because
one of the biggest problems with tolerance is that when you develop a tolerance, then the cannabis is
no longer effective for what you need it to be effective for. And I was just talking to another
scientist about this is that, in our opinion, the reason why we take tolerance breaks is because we
need the plant to work when we need it. And maybe that would be a way to describe it to people who
are maybe hesitant to try even taking a tolerance break is that you don't want the plant to lose
efficacy, you don't want it to stop working. And it's possible that that happens when you develop
tolerance. And it's also possible that continuing to develop tolerance will lead to other negative
side effects like having problems sleeping or having like other like, there's some people who
get withdrawal symptoms of anxiety when they go to take a tolerance break. So essentially, the more
tolerance you develop, the more difficult it becomes to take a tolerance break. And it's
always easier just to regularly take, you know, build breaks into your routine. And I, again,
though, this is this is going to be different from from person to person, because I feel like I'm
hypocritical even saying this, because I do maintain a level of tolerance, like I pretty
much take, I take very short tolerance breaks. But I don't take breaks that are longer than a week.
And I don't, I don't completely resensitize my system, because my system as it is on a complete
tolerance break is not a high quality of life for me. So it, I don't want to be I don't want to like
mislead, or, you know, spread spread negative, negative suggestions. This is just like my
experience is that I do maintain a low, a very, very low tolerance. And I find that to be beneficial.
And I think it's, it's all about finding that balance. And maybe explaining it in that way,
where you need the balance of having the risk, like the, the relief, like having the plant
actually provide you with an effective relief, balanced with having the right level of receptors
in your brain, right on, I follow this. And, and it makes a lot of sense, too, because there are a
lot of patients who they do want to take some amount of tolerance breaks so that the cannabis
is more effective for them on a daily basis, they want to get their receptors and you know,
cannabinoids more in balance, but at the same time, going down to zero tolerance could be very
extreme as well. Because I know that if I if I have to stop using cannabinoids for a while,
for some reason, when I come back, sometimes I get so high that like it's dysphoric, right?
Or people who have got severe pain, and they use cannabinoids at work to treat their pain.
Well, you know, if they were to go a significant amount of time for a for a complete tolerance
break, well, they may just be like super stoned at work, you know, like there there really is,
you know, advanced patients with a lot of experience about cannabis, really embrace
the whole idea of individualized cannabinoid pathic care, because we are all different.
But at the beginning, we have to give patients general ideas. And then, you know, it takes them
almost no time, you know, once a patient has got cannabinoids, they become, you know, scientists
of their own body. And it's, it's great to see. I think that that's an amazing piece of, you know,
on one side, I know that it's something that people view is a very negative thing about cannabis and
about plant medicine just in general is that everyone says are all it works for some people,
and it does nothing for other people. And there and it's, I think that that's an amazing gift to
be able to be empowered, you know, with with the option. And I do think that having like guidelines,
though, is like, for example, if I was talking to someone new, who was who is just getting into
cannabis, I absolutely would tell them to take tolerance breaks. I also think that tolerance
breaks are really great, you know, clarity or relativity, where then you can approach your use
again, every time you take a tolerance break, it allows you to rehash exactly what therapeutic
benefits you're getting from the plant, how it's helping you. And it gives you more perspective,
I think, on that. So I absolutely would in the beginning, like, advise people to take tolerance
breaks. And then, like you said, most of the time, you know, if this when when cannabis works for
someone, and like you said, it's a last resort. I mean, I have to admit, like cannabis was not the
first thing that I tried. And it was in many ways, a last resort, like I was not I was not well. And
when people are when you when you come to that, and you find something that works for you,
it drives you to be so interested in it. Because especially in this prohibition era,
when we've been educated, or at least I was educated that there, you know, there's nothing
worse than being an addict, and that it's going to ruin your life. And that it's this horrible,
horrible thing. And then, you know, you experience this relief from it that you don't get from
anything else. I think that instills a passion of understanding of health on a deeper level.
And I think that's one of the greatest things about cannabis. I think personal empowerment
and personal responsibility in our in our lives is important, and, and a huge positive thing. So
I would encourage like other people, you know, listening and people that like spreading the
knowledge and the education that there's a lot of power in personal experience. And I know
scientists are always talking about, you know, clinical research and having to have, you know,
having trying to have the most experimental hard scientific data. I agree with that. I think that
research is necessary. But I also think that there is a huge, huge amount of value in the personal
stories and in the personal narrative. And we're all a part of that. So right on the oral history
of medicine. So I've got one one last quick question for you before we go to commercial,
these tolerance breaks that we're talking about, that don't get rid of all of your tolerance,
but bring you down to, I don't know, more usable levels, while we know that they are different for
every single person, we have to recommend something to people for their like first time until so they
can start start somewhere. When you take one of these tolerance breaks, you said you you know,
rarely do it more than a week, okay, but what's your regular like my regular is 48 hours, I go
to full calendar days with with now anything and, and on day three, I seem to be, you know, reset.
What is how does it work for you? And what do you recommend?
Wow, that's, that's so funny. We are very, very similar. So yeah, it all depends on what your
therapeutic minimum is. So the therapeutic minimum is like the smallest dose that you can use to get
the benefit that you're looking for, right. And, and each of us has a different minimum, some,
some people have a therapeutic minimum far, far above mine, mine's actually pretty low.
So let's say that you have a therapeutic minimum that is like, well above like 50 milligrams of
like an edible, an edible dose or something, something relatively large, right? It would
probably mean that you would have to take tolerance breaks more often if you wanted them to be as short
as what you and I are talking about. For me, my normal thing is I go usually somewhere between
36 to 48 hours, at least every week and a half or so that that seems to that seems to keep things I
don't have a regular schedule I did for a while when I proposed my PhD thesis, I was, I was like,
oh, I'm proposing my PhD thesis, let me also propose this other thesis in my life. And that's
actually when I first introduced CBD into my regimen. And I was keeping a notebook and I was
writing everything down. I was very rigid for about three years with it and developed a routine that
now I can sort of just sense by feel. But sometimes if I have if it lines up where I'm, I'm free, and
I have like a time on the weekend to take like a macro dose or a larger dose than I normally would,
the beneficial effects can last for far longer for me. And so that's sometimes I like kick off
my tolerance break. So to say with like a larger dose than I normally would, and then I experience
benefits that last for a few days after that. And it can begin like what would be a tolerance break.
And then another thing that's important about tolerance breaks that I just want to hit on before
we go to commercial is that it's an it's a good time when you're on a tolerance break also to
think about your diet and water intake and other nutritional. It's just it's just a good time to
think about it because you're already doing something different. So since you're already
doing something different and taking a tolerance break, you could think about really trying to,
you know, make change like I you mentioned about like fish oil supplements or like even just
in general unsaturated fatty acids, right? Like olive oil or coconut oil or fish or
thinking about about your diet and sleep hygiene and other times I use tolerance breaks as times
to think about my overall health. It's like a little mental retreat. One more one more thing
before we go to break this these tolerance breaks. This is all cannabinoids, right? You can't just
stop THC but keep using CBD, right? You have to you stop all cannabinoids because you're trying
to give the whole system a break, right? Oh, I never stopped taking CBD. But that's just me.
That's just me personally. And I use like pretty low, low doses of it. I didn't I don't experience.
I don't experience any like tolerance with CBD. But I love I use at much lower concentrations.
I have. I definitely have spoken to people like specifically people with seizures or migraines
that use that benefit from like larger doses of CBD, it will they will develop tolerance to it. So
I do cycle them in terms of like CBG, CBD, THC, but THC is probably the only one that I take
mandatory tolerance breaks from as far as how the receptors respond as far as like making more or
making less, which is essentially what we're trying to do with the tolerance break. Will it
if we're still taking CBD and we're not taking THC, do the THC receptors go down in number as
we want them to? So in theory, CBD has almost like an opposite effect on the CB one receptor
as THC. So in theory, it would not although I can't say like with 100% knowledge that it's true
because so here's the theory, right? Like THC activates the CB one receptor, and it's that
activation that causes the decrease. And CBD actually, like it doesn't inactivate it, it
binds to the outside and it turns it down like it turns down the volume. So it acts in a totally
different mechanism. It's not clear to me whether CBD has changed has caused changes in CB one
receptor density, I would need to look into that to see if if anything has been done before, but
I'm not in theory, it doesn't interact the same the same exact way. But I'm not I'm not
what you're saying makes sense, though. I mean, there's a lot of the stuff that we talk about
that we have to go on, you know, your educated intuition, because this research hasn't been done,
but you're certainly got a perspective and a vista point of viewpoint of the medicine, which is,
you know, a lot better than most of ours. So So I'd rather go with your opinion than and then not
know at all. So yeah, well, I mean, this is also it's my opinion. And maybe this study has been
done. And I haven't read it yet. I mean, there's plenty, you know, there's, there's, there's a lot
more coming out. And I am excited for us to, you know, I am excited to see where where we go with
research and like where the information takes us, because I would like to know that is something
that's an interesting like CBD, CBD, the largest, to me, at least benefits I in my opinion are
happening through the serotonin receptors for me, but I use it for mental health.
And CBD is really promiscuous. It's a complicated molecule. I mean, it's promiscuous, like it's
not necessarily a bad thing, but it binds to many things in the body. It's busy.
Right on. So let's go ahead and take that break. Finally, you are listening to shaping fire. And
my guest today is cannabis scientists and educator me, Abby shields.
This message is for folks who grow cannabis. I'm talking to home growers,
patients and commercial growers, too. I'm probably talking to you.
When you plan out your next growing cycle, be sure to check out Humboldt CSI seeds at
Humboldt CSI dot com. Caleb Inspector and his family have lived in Humboldt County for over
100 years. For the last 40 years, three generations of his family have cultivated
extraordinary sense of me a cannabis and Humboldt Mendocino and Trinity counties
because of his lineage and the hard earned experience that comes from growing up
smoking and sifting large populations of cannabis plants in Northern California.
The seeds you'll cop from CSI will be winning genetics based on longtime heavy hitters and
updated and reshifted to bring out new and exotic traits and better yields.
Go ahead and ask around. Caleb, also known as Inspector and Pirates of the Emerald Triangle,
is a breeders breeder. He reaches way back and works with significant strains,
recreating them in new and interesting ways that you'll love as a toker and a grower,
as well as offering you some surprises that will delight serious seed traders and cultivators.
Humboldt CSI goes a further step and selfs all these chemovars so you know all the seeds will
be female. These are not experimental feminized seeds. Humboldt CSI releases some of the best
female seeds available anywhere and it will show in your garden. Folks grew quite a bit of CSI
Humboldt GenX last year here on Vashon Island and everyone was pleased. The patients had beautiful
female plants and didn't have to cull half of their garden as males. The folks growing for the
fun of getting high grew colorful flowers with exceptional bag appeal and great highs. And
breeders had 7 out of 7 females in a pack, which gave them a lot of phenotypic choices.
Take a moment right now and visit humboldtcsi.com. You'll find an up to date menu of both
feminized and regular lines along with photos and descriptions. That's humboldtcsi.com.
As cannabis regulations become more demanding and consumers become more educated,
it is increasingly important to avoid the use of chemical pesticides when cultivating cannabis.
Beneficial insects have been used for decades by the greenhouse vegetable and ornamental plant
industry and today many cannabis cultivators are moving from sprays and chemicals to beneficial
insects. Copert Biological Systems has the beneficial insects, mites and nematodes,
microbials, sticky cards, and air distribution units you need to partner with nature to defend
your garden. Whether you manage acres of canopy or have a simple grow tent in your home, Copert
is ready to help answer your questions and help you transition away from chemical sprays towards
clean and natural solutions. Since 1967, Copert has assisted growers in identifying pests and
devising reliable solutions while providing healthy insects and mites that will protect
your yield. Since the 1990s, Copert has been a leader in cannabis pest and disease control
worldwide and have highly trained consultants to assist you in Canada and the U.S. from coast to
coast. No matter where you live, Copert Biological Systems can help. Visit copert.com, choose your
country, and get detailed information. That's copert, K-O-P-P-E-R-T dot com. For the most up-to-date
cannabis-related biological control information, you can also check out their Instagram,
at Copert Canada. You know getting away from pesticides is good for health and good for
business, and Copert is ready to help. Visit copert.com today. While I love growing under the
sun, there's a lot of good reasons to grow indoors. And if you're like most folks, you want a lighting
source that grows high-yielding, healthy plants without using excessive amounts of electricity.
BIOS lighting creates biological lighting solutions that brings the natural brilliance of the outdoors
into your grow room. BIOS lighting has the attributes that I look for in a horticultural
lighting solution. I've bought those cheap lights online, and they're difficult to work with and fail
in no time. In contrast, my BIOS LED light is industrial-grade to last a long time. It is IP66
wet-rated, so little foliar overspray won't harm it. It is easy to clean without taking it down,
and of course, the most important aspect, it is built for the exact light spectrum I want
for great-yielding, healthy cannabis plants. And it doesn't hurt that their lighting rigs look badass, too.
Many horticultural LED lighting systems are based on irrelevant performance metrics, and people love
to argue online about these numbers. I prefer to judge on PAR photon efficiency and how happy my
plants are, and the BIOS lights exceed my expectations in these categories. BIOS lights
have an optimized broad spectrum that maximizes photosynthesis and plant growth, while also
providing the ideal conditions for superior PAR efficacy and a comfortable visual experience.
I also love their attentive and over-educated customer service folks.
BIOS starts with a team of biologists before getting the electrical engineers involved.
They have studied how light impacts cannabis plants and devised an overall strategy that works.
I encourage you to check out their website at bioslighting.com to learn more about how this
strategy can work for you. And Shaping Fire listeners can get a special deal. Use the discount
code SHAPINGFIRE, all one word, no caps, for 10% off your entire purchase. That's bioslighting.com.
Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire. I am your host,
Shango Lose. And our guest this week is cannabis scientist and educator, Miyabi Shields.
So, Miyabi, we are to the part of the show that I have been the most uncomfortable about,
and I didn't tell you much about this in advance. So, you know, I know your company that you help
found, which, you know, is not the point of the show today, but it's called Real Isolates, right?
And I know that you are a pharmaceutical chemist and you spend a lot of time looking at cannabinoid
isolates. And for people who aren't familiar, we're talking about pure molecule THC, pure molecule
CBD. Whereas normally I'm talking on this show about, you know, taking the whole plant resin
directly from the plant. So instead of pulling out the isolates of the plant and then mixing
and matching them like a pharmaceutical company would to kind of, you know, build a medicine,
I'm more in the family of let's breed a plant that has the positive effect for the patient.
And then let's just do a whole resin extraction of that plant. And then we've got a, you know,
we've got a medicine directly from nature. And so that's what we talk about a lot on the show.
But, you know, you are right there on the front lines of this science. So, what is your take on
this? Like, you know, you clearly understand what I'm talking about, about whole plant medicine and
the resin. But I also know that from what I understand, a lot of your research is into these
individual molecules. And for many of us, like, you know, when CBD was really hard to find, I mean,
nowadays the price has crashed, but, you know, six years ago CBD was really hard to find. And so we
would often recommend to patients that they take a whole plant extract from a THC plant and then
add isolate to it to kind of artificially spike it so they could get the CBD that the studies were
saying they were needed. And oh my gosh, I felt like I was making or participating in Frankenstein
medicine, you know? So with that whole kind of setup, what are your thoughts in comparing
whole plant medicine versus the more common use of CBD isolate, THC isolate, and now God help us,
you know, Delta-8 isolate? Well, actually, it's funny that you mentioned that. Our company named
Real Isolates is sort of a play on words because there is no such thing as a real isolate.
And we do research, and doing research involves isolating these compounds and looking at them. But
in terms of the efficacy of whole plant extracts versus isolates, I think that there are huge
benefits to chemodiversity that are undervalued and under-researched. And actually, our whole
company, which I know is now probably a misnomer at the time we thought it was funny, Real Isolates,
at the time we were like, this makes perfect sense. We'll tell everyone about how there's no
real isolates. So it's like a science joke that no one gets. Well, hopefully people will get it
eventually. But actually, our entire research is that we do and everything is based upon,
you know, this theory that I've been working on that has to do with chemodiversity and
the potentially, essentially, what you were just describing about whole plants, making crude
extracts with whole plants, and the extremely, extremely complex pharmacology that comes with
crude extracts. Because if you think about, have you heard of the three-body problem in physics?
No, I'm not familiar with that.
Okay. So basically, it's just a problem that says, in physics, in a vacuum of space, if you have two
planets or two bodies, it's very, very easy to derive a mathematical equation that describes
those two bodies. It's very predictable, and it's safe. So pharmaceutical chemistry is, in many ways,
a two-body problem, because you have the one synthetic molecule, or in this case, if you were
looking at isolates of CBD and THC, you have the one molecule, and then you have the human body,
right? But in physics, there's this problem where instead of two bodies, you introduce a third body,
like a third planet, and they're all rotating around each other. And all of a sudden, it becomes
impossible to generate an equation to describe it.
Because it suddenly gets so complex.
And that's with three. And the cannabis plant has over 400 unique molecules, depending on the
strain, depending on the grow. So depending on the genetics and the chemo var, depending on the
grow conditions and how it's grown, depending on the dry and cure process and how it's dried and cured,
then depending on how it's extracted, whether or not it's distilled, what are the distillation
parameters, like fraction distillation versus short bath distillation. It is a hundred-plus
body problem, like, easily for sure. But I'm at the point where, like, I embrace that problem, because
that hundred-plus body problem has very specific solutions that I don't believe that isolates can solve.
That's just a personal opinion of mine. I personally believe that there are huge advantages to
chemodiversity, which is just a description of, like, the number of total molecules that are in an extract.
Like, for example, I have huge success making topicals with crude extracts of cannabis and
willow bark. And white willow bark has the precursor, has salicylic acid in it, which is the
scaffold that we use to make aspirin. But in addition to salicylic acid, it has a bunch of
other rare, you know, rare derivatives of salicylic acid. Similarly to how cannabis has all the rare
cannabinoids and terpenes and flavonoids and other fatty acids and bioactive molecules, right? And
do we understand exactly how all of these things interact? Like, no, we don't understand that at all yet.
We're not there yet where we could say, I will give you a synthetic mixture of all 400 of these things
to cause a very specific effect. I mean, that would be the holy grail, or that would be, you know, that
would be the goal eventually of research. But we're nowhere close to there. And in my opinion,
does the whole plant have uncharted territory and uncharted opportunities for various specific
therapeutic effects and or increased effects for, like, a lower, like, risk potential? Like, yes,
I think that isolates, not necessarily CBD isolate, but, okay, well, CBD isolate, maybe I'll, I could
talk a little bit about that, right? So, Epidiolex is the pharmaceutical CBD formulation. And the dose
for Epidiolex is extremely high. I mean, it's in the, it's in, like, for my weight, it would be,
like, more than a gram more than once per day. Extremely, extremely high dose for it to be
efficacious. And obviously, that's, you know, seizure disorders require higher doses. But
it's my personal opinion that you could potentiate CBD, meaning you make CBD more effective by giving
it with other cannabinoids that act synergistically. So, a synergistic interaction means more than
additive. And these are things that are difficult to prove in a laboratory setting. And I know that
people are working on it and that it's being done. But in the meantime, in terms of just,
like, what my opinion is of it, I think that the whole plant extracts have a lower risk potential
for negative effects and potentially, in many ways, have a higher efficacy. Although there are
advantages, there are no doubt advantages to distilling and purifying. You can't argue that
there are some advantages to that. I guess just in the personal context, I am a big fan and use
crude extracts and flour. And I got to tell you, I'm very relieved because I thought I was going
into a debate with a scientist who loved isolates. And I'm like, oh my god, how am I going to hold my
own defending whole plant? And then here you are saying, oh, actually, whole plant, you know,
is probably preferred, which is a huge relief to me. Well, whole plant is really just a combination
of isolates. Right, right. But it's not, I mean, it's kind of like contrary, right? Because
by name, isolate means you're isolating one thing. And there are absolutely advantages to isolate,
although in my opinion, not for chronic use. So, like, specifically, we're talking about tolerance
and taking tolerance breaks. And I know I didn't mention it when we were talking about it, but
there's a very specific type of withdrawal, an acute withdrawal, that is coming up more and more
called cannabis hyperemesis syndrome, or CHS. And it's my personal opinion that that develops due to
a very, very specific type of tolerance and withdrawal to just THC. And it's not,
it's nowhere near close to, we're nowhere near close to understanding exactly how all of these
things work, or whether or not this is, this is like 100% the mechanism. But when you take a
whole plant extract that has, you know, a large number of different cannabinoids, also, you know,
the perfect example of this, which is, you know, touching on my current research project is smoking,
right? Like, I prefer cannabis smoke to the edible experience. I know that that's true for a majority
of people. Actually, I recently polled, I polled all my social media and got over 13,000 responses.
And it's pretty much an overwhelming majority of people prefer smoking. And there's no doubt
advantages to edibles, and that's in a comparable way to that there's no doubt advantages to
pharmaceutical formulations. But many edibles these days are made with distillate. They're
made with very, very concentrated, and distillate, even though it's not isolate, is practically
isolate. I mean, it depends, it depends on, you know, the dispensary, the producer, the producer
in the lab that's making it. But there, it's often, I think it's common practice for people to distill
above 85%, right? Which basically means that you're taking out everything else, and you're
hyper selecting for the cannabinoids. And, you know, I'm kind of going in a circle here, but I prefer
smoking, and I always had, and majority of people prefer smoking. And one of the reasons why I
believe that is because smoking produces the most diverse formulation out of anything that you
possibly could intake. In terms of like a crude edible extraction, like butter or RSO, versus a
distillate extraction, versus smoking, the distillate edibles are on one side, and so like isolates and
distillate are on one side of like the purest form of just THC, or just CBD. And then crude
extracts or whole plant extracts are in the middle, and then smoking is on the opposite side, in terms
of just the total number of like the complexity of the formulation of cannabinoids that you're taking
in. And that, you know, this has been my big passion, and something that I'm passionate about
researching for, you know, like for a while now, is why is that, and looking into it. And, you know, it
would take a supercomputer and a lot of simulation to even be able to begin to predict the
like the complex interactions, like at the receptor level, that occur with so many different
mixtures, right? Like, especially when you have the fact that you have like flavonoids
and terpenes and other bioactive molecules, like there's a lot of factors to take into consideration.
And you blew me away the other day when you taught that even regardless of what your
analytics say about your flour, when you burn the flour, you are actually bringing additional
cannabinoids into existence, so that a burnt, a combusted flour, like in a joint or something,
is even more pharmacologically complex than what you think is in it when you look at your lab tests.
Absolutely. I mean, there's, we always talk about the negatives and the downsides to smoking, and I,
there's, you can't argue that there are some negatives to smoking as a method, but there are
some benefits as well, and there are some very, very unique, you know, things that occur. And,
yeah, in terms of like what I was mentioning about like dependent, regardless of what the flour
looks like, I mean, a lot of THC will get converted because it is, it's a reactive molecule and you
heat it to a very, very high temperature, and then the flour has other reactive molecules as well.
The terpenes are all extremely volatile, and then there's just the fact, like when we talk about
combustion, you know, true combustion means you're going all the way down to CO2 and water, and we do
not fully combust the flour. I mean, when you're at the very, very end of your bowl and it's all
white and ashy, like, yeah, okay, that's, you know, that's completely combusted. But when we're
typically smoking, you know, like when you're not running totally dry, like you're not fully
combusting. You're heating and extracting at the same time, and you're also transforming. And, yeah,
it's, I think chemodiversity has a huge impact on the overall effect. I mean, I can tell you right
now that, like, no one will be able to convince me that smoking doesn't give me a different
formulation because it feels so different. It sure does. Like, and there's so many specific effects
in terms of strain specificity that I'm, and perhaps I just don't have experience with, enough
experience with strain-specific edibles because, you know, so many edibles are made with distillate,
which distills them back down. So, it simplifies them. And I just know that the high is not nearly
as good smoking, you know, distillate or actually any version of distillate. Let's finish with this
question because I don't want to keep you longer than we agreed to. The, when we talk about whole
plant medicine with many scientists at conventions, people tell me, ah, whole plant medicine is messy.
We can't control it. We don't know what's in it. Whereas you're talking about the benefits of
chemical diversity and, and, you know, I come from a place of efficacy that just works so much better.
When you're talking scientist to scientist, what do you tell that other scientist who says that,
you know, cannabis resin is messy and uncontrolled and so we should go in a different direction?
I tell them that real life is messy.
That's beautiful.
Real life is pretty uncontrolled and that I absolutely love the scientific rigor of getting
in the lab and minimizing variables, but that's just not life. And I know that this is something
that many scientists do and will in future disagree with me over. And I was very hesitant about
talking about it for a long time for that reason, because I do agree that there is, it is messy.
I mean, I, I agree that it's unknown, right? And it's, it's complicated, but then I also can't help but
think about reality. And, you know, reality is messy and uncontrollable and complicated. And to
your point, you know, just to close, like the most important thing to me is helping other people
improve their quality of life and efficacy is where it's at. And let me just like, this is just
like a thought, a little like thing, a seed of thought, but you know, most drugs that go to
clinical trial, like pharmaceutical, synthetic drugs going to clinical trial, first of all,
it's extremely expensive to get them to a clinical trial, but by the time they get there, the most
common reason why they fail is not because they're toxic, but it's because they are not efficacious.
The most common reason why a drug will fail a clinical trial is because it just simply doesn't
work. So I guess my question to another scientist who would say that it's messy, my question would
be like, so it's messy, but it works. And like what reduction of suffering is the goal?
Is it the goal? Right, exactly. Is that the goal? And if that is the goal, which I think everyone
agrees that that's the goal, then why shouldn't we value something that's messy and try to work
with it? Because I totally agree and understand it is messy. There's tons of questions. I mean,
even with, you know, my project is looking at cannabis smoke. I opened Pandora's box and
there's a lot of questions and a lot of things to be figured out and a lot of unknown. And I think
the unknown makes people scared. But you know, there's a thing about science where scientists
are like searching around in the dark underneath one street lamp. So like the universe is this dark,
mysterious thing, and science just has this like the little street lamps of technology. Like if
you imagine every new technological advance is a new little street lamp that you can kind of like
turn on and look under. And all of us are down on our hands and knees as scientists with a
magnifying glass looking under the street lamp. And then everyone else is like, well, what if the
answer is in the dark? You know what I mean? And we don't have the answer to that. So, you know,
that would be, I guess this is like, and I would love to have discussions with, and I'm sure I will
have many discussions with other scientists on this, but to, you know, I've been speaking with
a lot of people on chemodiversity and most people that I talked to, especially people who have used
and benefited from plant medicine, most of those people who have that and hear what I'm saying
about chemodiversity are just kind of like, right, that just, it just makes sense.
That's fantastic. Miyabi, it has been such a joy to interview you. Your depth and detail of
knowledge is like so liberating. And, you know, it says in the intro to the show that we do all
of this with good cheer and you're such a cheerful and enjoyable person to chat with. I really
appreciate it. And I got to tell you, like I had so many, I've got a whole, you know, half show of
questions that we didn't get to you. Would you be so kind as to come back again soon so that we can
continue our conversation? Oh, absolutely. Thanks for having me. This was really enjoyable. And I
love talking about this stuff. It's actually my, it's like extremely special and narrow interest of
mine. Fantastic. Well, thank you so much. We'll talk to you again soon. If you are interested in
following Miyabi Shields on social media, there is a lot of fun there. So I'm going to start out by
giving you their Instagram, which is miyabi, which is M-I-Y-A-B-E-P-H-D. Because the TikTok
channel keeps on getting deleted and there isn't a website yet. So just go to miyabiphd on Instagram.
And from there, you will be able to start picking up on the rest of their teaching.
You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the show at
shapingfire.com and wherever you get your podcasts. If you enjoyed the show, we'd really
appreciate it if you would leave a positive review of the podcast wherever you download.
Your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too. On the Shaping Fire website,
you can also subscribe to the newsletter for insights into the latest cannabis news,
exclusive videos, and giveaways. On the Shaping Fire website, you will also find transcripts of
today's podcast as well. Be sure to follow on Instagram for all original content not found on
the podcast. That's at shapingfire and at shangolos on Instagram. Be sure to check out the Shaping
Fire YouTube channel for exclusive interviews, farm tours, and cannabis lectures. Does your
company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts? Email hotspot at
shapingfire.com to find out how. Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire. I've been your host,
Shango Los.
