While it is certainly true that growing cannabis can still lead to a prison sentence in some
states, homegrowing for personal consumption is exploding across the country.
Most states have enacted some sort of homegrow allotment with their licensing of cannabis
companies, and in states with licensed cannabis but no homegrowing, like Washington state,
the enforcement is close to zero for individuals just growing a few plants.
The rapid rise in personal grows has been an epic boon for horticulture companies of
all flavors, and lights and nutrients and seeds are all being sold at a rapid pace on
the internet.
Folks are more openly sharing what they have grown to on social media, with neighbors,
and at barbecues.
Personal grows are an essential part of cannabis normalization.
But where are all these homegrowers growing?
No doubt if you listen to Shaping Fire you know that we support outdoor summertime grows
because they use the sunshine instead of electric lights, but not everyone has access to the
outside.
Many patients don't have the mobility to get outside, many apartment dwellers have
no yard at all, and even many folks who do have yards still don't feel comfortable
growing cannabis in the yard because of neighbors or local kids or simple space concerns.
One thing all of these cannabis consumers can turn to is the indoor growing tent.
These tents create an artificial indoor environment that can be climate controlled especially
to grow cannabis.
They have reflective interiors to move the light around and fine mesh zippers and flaps
that keep the light inside the tent.
They are clandestine, compact, and pretty affordable to get started with.
Grow tents have been an essential aspect of cannabis culture for decades because they
can make the indoor gardener self-sufficient, and self-sufficiency is a universally accepted
human value.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, business, and technique efficiently and with
good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
We'll send you new podcast episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox,
along with commentary on a couple of the most important news items for the week, and videos
too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published.
Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode.
Also, we're giving away very cool prizes to folks who are signed up to receive the
newsletter.
There's nothing else you need to do to win except receive that newsletter, so go to shapingfire.com
to sign up for the newsletter and be entered into this month's and all future newsletter
prize drawings.
You are listening to Shaping Fire, and I'm your host, Shango Lose.
Today my guest is Jeremy Silva, founder of Build-A-Soil, a horticulture supply retailer
in Montrose, Colorado, and online at buildasoil.com.
Jeremy studies best practices for home-growing tents more than anyone I know, and you can
watch his experiments live online as they happen on the Build-A-Soil Instagram account.
Jeremy's background helping medical cannabis patients with their grows and getting friends
hooked on worm castings from his compost bin has served him well as a cannabis horticulture
educator.
Jeremy also practices Jiu-Jitsu, which helps him understand energy relationships, and I
found that it often finds its way into his explanations of soil and plants.
Today we're going to talk about growing cannabis for personal consumption at home
using a cultivation tent.
Welcome to the show, Jeremy.
Hey, thanks for having me on today.
I appreciate it.
Yeah, thanks for making the time.
Let's go right into talking about the size of tent, right?
A lot of people struggle a little bit like, oh my gosh, how tall do I need to have my
tent or how big does it have to be to be worthwhile at all?
Normally when I'm talking to people about setting up a tent, I just say get a tent that's
as big as the space that you have because no matter how big your tent is, you're going
to wish you had a bigger tent in most cases.
I know that you've got people coming to you all the time who are about to initiate their
first tent.
What kind of advice do you give them?
Oh man, these are really good questions.
I am similar to you.
I say, hey, get the biggest one that you can afford based on your size.
Typically most customers are saying, hey, it's going to be in a bedroom, a garage, a
closet, somewhere where usually it's something beyond the tent that is going to frame in
their size.
A lot of times that might be at minimum just ceiling height, even if you have an open bedroom.
When you're looking at a grow tent, we offer the Gorilla Tent.
There's a million tents out there and I think that most all of them will work, but the Gorilla
has some extensions on height and so that would be important for you to look at.
The other thing that some of our customers forget, and I know I didn't really think about
it the first time I bought a tent, is that it takes extra space in your room to actually
construct and build the tent.
Normally it takes an extra person.
I'm pretty good at doing it by myself if it's small with a step stool and being patient,
but sometimes with a low ceiling or very tight space, you have to actually consider
how you're going to construct it and have enough space to wrap the outer material around
it.
Beyond that, if space is not really the limitation and you're wondering, hey, I've got an open
room, how do I consider what's too tall, too short, and what's optimum for environment,
then I would be questioning what type of light you're going to use and what the budget looks
like for controlling the environment.
That would be my secondary dictator of purchase.
Primary would be the size that I have.
If I have unlimited size, then secondary I'm going to compare my budget.
If I already have a grow light and it's very, maybe it's old school, puts out a lot of heat,
I'm going to need to go on the taller side of the tent.
If I have an option to get a newer age, cooler running grow light, I'm going to not consider
the height as a main limiting factor.
One of the things I want to consider throughout this whole series is using holistic decision
making and that means looking at the weakest link.
That should guide you in the process of making those decisions.
Right on.
A lot of people, they think that they may need to add a little bit of extra size so
that they can get in and move around in their tent.
What I tell people is if you're planning on getting into the tent, you're probably
not thinking through correctly.
In a perfect world, we should not be getting into our tents because we're going to be bringing
in lots of contaminants and the risk of snapping off parts of the plants increases greatly
when your butt's in there moving around.
I tell people pretty much plan on filling up the tent but not necessarily getting into
it physically.
You may get on your hands and knees to reach something that's going on towards the back
but don't be planning from the get go to be taking your feet and your body into the tent.
Yeah.
I think that 99% of the time, that's pretty much the way to go.
When you're looking at a tent, some of them have a D-shaped door on the side, some of
them fully unwrap.
You're going to want to take into consideration if you're putting it in a corner, which side
that third access door is, how you might orient the tent so you can access a side panel.
One of the key weaknesses of a grow tent is its main zipper that has multiple directions
of pull.
If you have to completely unhook the zipper every single time you open it, it's going
to cause advanced wear and tear no matter the manufacturer and will last a little bit
less time.
However, if you have a D-door, a side panel, something that you can enter a little bit
more frequently, that will greatly increase the lifespan of your grow tent.
There's ways to repair them, so it's not the end of the world, but that's something
to consider as far as the shape.
Now, I will say a lot of our customers, if they have an open warehouse, they will get
like a 10 by 10 or a 10 by 20.
They'll set up an entire grow room inside of it.
They will walk inside.
Sometimes that's because the long room around it is maybe a lower temperature or something
that they kind of want to get inside and maybe reseal it, but that is a much bigger situation
and you should know exactly what you need at that point.
If you're asking what grow tent, normally those are going to be the main requirements
is consider a size that you can max out space.
Otherwise, you're kind of wasting, paying for the electricity for having walking area.
Yeah, for sure.
And gosh, having a 10 by 20 would be super boss.
Most people I know and probably most people who are listening, they're talking more about
working in a four by four or similar, right?
Because most people come to a tent because they want to be able to grow their own cannabis
and they live either in an apartment situation or a housing situation where growing outdoors
is not reasonable, right?
So generally people come to a tent because of area constraints at the beginning, but
I certainly know plenty of folks who are breeding who decide that, oh, it makes a lot more sense
for me to set up 12 10 by 20 tents and have all of these individual environments within
my bigger warehouse.
But that's not as much what we're talking about today.
Certainly that's a great application, but we're really talking more about the home grower
who's just trying to grow their own ganja.
Yeah.
And a tent makes sense, especially because you can build something pretty cheap, but
then it takes time, effort, labor, tools.
And now construction not as easily collapsible and movable.
So these tents, they have vents, they hang your lights, they work really, really well
and they can be affordable.
So I agree.
I think that on the minimum side, if we're just looking at like a three by three versus
a four by four, most of the grow lights are going to be pretty easy to purchase and upgrade
on kind of a four by four platform.
So if you start with a four by four and you get a secondary tent, it'll always work.
And like you said, if you go with a three by three, if you had room for that extra foot
around, I mean it's going to make a significant difference from nine square feet to 16 is
a lot bigger jump than people think of when they say three by three or four by four.
Plus a lot of the things in the market are designed size wise for the four by four.
And so just be easier to buy your gear.
Yes.
And always having a little perimeter space in case your ventilation moves the sides of
the tent in.
Sometimes, like for instance, out here it's fairly dry.
I'll use a passive air intake.
And so when I'm exhausting air, it tends to pull the tents just a little bit.
And if you're in a three by three, it's going to then shrink your space.
And if you out here in the winter, it can create condensation and all sorts of things.
So having a four by four kind of at minimum, I really like if we can get to that size.
It seems like it makes everything a little bit more scalable and a little bit more usable.
You know, historically, everybody was growing in plastic pots because that's what we had.
But over the last several years, we've got really nice fabric pots out on the market.
And I've personally, while I don't have one in my four by four yet, I have fallen in love
with the four by four fabric raised beds.
When I next upgrade my tent, that's where I'm going because I love the idea of the roots
being able to interact with each other so that the plants don't feel like it's as much
of a monoculture, that they get to talk to each other.
But you know, the containers that we use are really, should be customized for our growing
environment.
So, you know, each have their advantages.
You have done more tests in tents than anybody I know.
So I'm assuming that you have gone through plastic versus fabric pots versus the raised
beds.
How do you compare and contrast them?
Another really good question.
And all of these methods will work.
None of them are the right way to do it.
It's all what's right for you and your situation.
And like you hit on, there's going to be pros and cons for every single one of these that
you do.
A lot of people jumped on the fabric pot bandwagon and without doing investigation on what the
differences might be.
So they'd carry their same watering practices from plastic to fabric, and they would maybe
unfairly judge the fabric based on old habits.
And so I think that as long as you have a idea of your watering habits and what the
pros and cons are, you can fairly choose.
So obviously with the plastic, it's not going to breathe the same as fabric.
And that means that it's going to hold water a little bit longer.
And a lot of times if you're trying to sex seedlings and you're forcing them in smaller
containers because you're in limited space until they've identified their sex, a lot
of times you want the plants to hold on to a little bit of water at that point.
And if it dries out too quickly, it may lead to more labor on your part.
And if you've got a busy life, it may lead to a decline in health in the garden.
So in that case, plastic's reusable, it holds more water, and they are nice.
The main argument is that plastic will swirl the roots where the fabric, when it breathes
on the edge, it will root prune.
And there's a hybrid option now that Grassroots Fabric Pots offers.
We sell and we're slowly working our way down all the way to one gallon.
But it is a fabric pot that's foldable, which is great for shipping costs and environmental
costs, so to speak.
It also is reusable, but it's lined about 75 to 80 percent with plastic.
But the bottom inches remain open to root prune.
So the roots are guided from the side where they hit the plastic down to the bottom.
And instead of circling, they air prune when they get to the part that breathes down low.
And this prevents the kind of root rot at the bottom.
And so a lot of the big plastic containers will have large air holes at the bottom to
allow the pots to breathe.
But that will let your soil fall out, and then it gets all over the place, where in
the fabric container that doesn't happen.
So pros and cons.
Main consideration with a living soil grow, whether you're doing plastic, whether you're
doing fabric, is gonna be the size.
And one of the things I've found, most of our customer base who is looking to grow in
a regenerative, organic style and look for the processes that mimic nature, and they're
into that, right?
Typically what we're gonna do is look for a bigger container size, because that's more
mimicking nature.
That's gonna allow the biology to keep up with the nutrient cycling.
It's gonna allow commingling of roots.
But more importantly for me, it's gonna allow me to go snowboard.
It's gonna allow me to go spend time with my family.
And that means that I'm not potentially stressed out about the garden back at home not being
tended to properly.
One thing I know about gardening is it's about discipline and routine.
And if we can set that cycle up to be hedged on our side a little bit, so it's a little
bit more simple, I think that we're gonna experience a year-round production that is
very quality.
And that is gonna be the first step in preventing pests.
Because we're consistent, we should not see a decline in health.
So I like a larger container.
I personally like the fabric that is lined with the plastic.
But indoors, the way I'd make the determining factor is if you live in a very humid environment,
straight fabric's the way to go.
Here in Colorado, it's really dry.
So I like the plastic-lined fabric.
And then either way, you just have to adapt your watering practices to make sure you're
not over- or under-watering because of the slight differences between the methods.
Using that large container, it's a lot like people preferring larger aquariums, too.
With a lot more water in the aquarium, the water can buffer any mistakes that you make
and it doesn't affect the fish as much.
Similarly, with our plants, the more soil we have, everything gets buffered a little
bit more and they can share resources and water and it makes your mistakes are softened
a little bit more.
One thing I often hear from patients that I work with is that they've got this hesitation
to go with one big container in the tent because they want to keep that option to be able to
take the plants out of the tent and go into the light of day or into another room so that
they can work on them.
Whatever their concern is, they would much rather go with one container per plant just
in case they need to pull them out.
And I often suggest if that's going to help you while you are learning how to grow, that's
not the worst thing in the world, but it's really much better for the plant if you let
them co-mingle like that.
How do you help people weigh that out?
You know, that's a good consideration.
I almost forgot what it's like to have that thought and that's part of why it's helpful
to have these questions.
But I can remember when I was considering going to a larger bed, I was very much paralyzed
by the thought that I can't see that back right corner.
I can't clear them out and bring that one up front to investigate because that's where
the spider mites were.
That's where the problem started, where I couldn't get to.
But what I learned over a long period of time developing confidence was that a larger bed,
it stopped the number one effect, which is the over and under watering.
And once you got into a cycle, it prevented more disease, more pest problems, and it actually
improved the quality so that I never, ever needed to move that plant and rotate it or
move it.
And so now I don't even consider it.
In fact, just as much as my farm.
I never am going to go pull any of the vegetables out of the farm, bring them into the kitchen,
investigate them and go put them back.
And so I think if we just kind of eliminate that as we're more farming than we are trying
to grow like hydroponically, and as long as they know that that's acceptable and people
are successful doing that, I think that they'll be okay with it.
That being said, I have a lot of people that like to have lots of different flavors and
a constant perpetual grow and are a little less comfortable using a large container or
they just don't have the ability to carry that much upstairs and into an apartment,
whatever the limitation might be.
And I think that you can be just as successful.
The main caveat here is that if we can limit the plant size to be equal or smaller than
the volume of soil, we will be much more geared towards success because we will not push the
limitations of the nutrient cycling in the container.
So if you have a five gallon plant, you might want to flip the flower when it's just past
clone size and then you'll be okay.
You're going to have to still be a little more cautious on over and under watering and
tend to it a little more often.
You probably can't leave for a full weekend during peak stretch.
But on a larger container, the only caveat is that this works phenomenally well so long
as we don't overdo it.
So as long as you're not over amending and over watering, the large container is by far
the best way to go because you can always add more later.
You can always water more the next day.
That's the only challenge is if you really, really overdo it on a large container.
And so it's because of that that I don't discourage people using smaller containers to ramp up
their learning curve.
And a 15 gallon to a 30 gallon is an incredible size container so long as the plant is flipped
in the flower early enough.
And then from those experiences, I think they're going to be a really natural next step to
dump that same soil they've already used into their now larger container and really get
the whole process going.
Because then you get worms and you get this whole ecosystem that can kind of thrive even
between cycles.
And I just get great results in the larger containers.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
So there's one more group of people that I want to make sure that we address because
I think that this is a lot of folks and I have been this person and that if you are
a grower who's going to be using a tent and you might have to move it, if you are renting
a house and you'd prefer your landlord wasn't aware of it, if you have a house and your
parents might be coming to visit, if you are concerned about an insurance adjuster who
might come by at some point during the cycle, we all have these issues that come up where
your grow space may not be totally your own and you might need to move your plants.
And I think that's something that people should let themselves off the hook for.
Certainly if you have got a secure place to grow, going into a bigger pot is always better.
But if you're renting, sometimes you have to let other people in.
And if you need to have the ability to, oh, I'm having somebody come over in two days
and you need to be able to take your plants and stash them at a neighbor's place for 48
hours or 36 hours, don't hold that against yourself to have individual containers for
your plants.
This is a scale and we're all trying to do the best we can.
And if you have to keep your individual pots just so you can have a grow, you're still
way ahead of the curve by having individual pots.
Yep.
And you can totally do it.
Like a 15 gallon, it sounds small to me now, but I remember when that was just excessive,
really large, a lot of soil.
But now I think that's so small.
But a 15 gallon can be on top of a tray and if you have to leave for maybe a day longer
than normal, you can maybe bottom water.
There's some tricks that you can kind of use.
So no matter what, you'll be successful.
It's only being aware of the limitations.
And I gotta tell you, telling your buddy to come over or someone in your household and
having a water can set next to the tent and tell them to put that precise amount of water
on the four plants or whatever is still way easier than telling them to pH this and add
this many milliliters and make sure they don't overdo it.
Right?
So no matter what you do there, there's gonna be a solution for you.
It's just being aware of it.
The last thing I want to hit in this section, and I'm assuming that you're going to be in
the same category, I really recommend everybody to get a floor liner or a tray for the bottom.
When I first started out, I'm like, oh, this is a place that I'm going to save some money.
The bottom of my tent is silver and I think it might be waterproof, but I'm just going
to go for it.
And golly, that was a mistake because the pots give off water and debris and just random
stuff.
And it also can create an opportunity for condensation between the bottom of the pots
and the floor.
And so then when you remove the tent, you end up, you've got, oh my God, I've had this
water spot on my floor of my apartment or house now for four months.
I would not recommend trays being a place that people try to save money.
Go ahead and make sure you get something with a lip that you can put under the pots between
the pots and the bottom of the tent and you'll be really glad you did.
Yep.
It makes a lot of sense.
You know, our biological soils, they'll eat away.
Those plastic liners that come in the tents that are like to be the insert that has a
lip that is foldable and you put in the bottom of the tent over the poles.
And that's mainly to keep any moisture off of the metal and that what's going to rust
it and that would leak into the floor.
So it's like a secondary prevention.
We're on a concrete floor here and my tent was old.
So I put the hundred gallon container I have right on that.
But it's a horrible idea.
If you care about your tent and like you said, the home, it's a lot better idea to try and
put something, a tray, a flood tray, anything like that below it.
And then the trick is if you ever have an issue where there was some buildup in your
soil or you overwatered, you can just take a shop vac and vacuum it out and it's no problem
whatsoever and everything stays clean.
Yeah, right on.
So let's move on to soil.
And you know, like I said in the intro to this show, there is no way that we are going
to cover all of soil science and chemistry in one part of a show.
And really all we're trying to do is give folks who are, who have come to the show because
they're new some ability to get started because they're going to know a lot more at the end
of their first cycle than they do now.
But for folks who have been growing a long time and they know that you can just like
lose hours and hours and hours researching soil, we're just going to try to encapsulate
it based on general best practices.
So let's wade into this.
So you know, we are, you and I are both living soil guys and we want to make sure that we
have a thriving microbiome in the container so that the area around the plant roots, the
rhizosphere is providing all of the microbes needed to the plant so that that exchange
between the microbes and the plant can happen in a healthy way.
That said, there's lots of ways to create that environment.
Now Jeremy, I know that through running the shop, you spend a lot of time with new folks
trying to get them over the hump or over the rabbit hole of soil.
What do you find is like the basic best practices to get folks going so that they can get into
their first grow and not spend six months learning about soil science before they get
to turn their lights on?
Oh man, that's a good question because you don't really have to understand it all the
way down to its nuances to be able to operate successfully.
And I think that listeners will be happy to know that we've had successful grows in every
variety of soil that the soil tests themselves basically on paper said would not work.
And so these plants do have a lot of forgiveness and in an effort of really getting better
each year, you can really go down the rabbit hole of soil science, soil testing and balancing
cations and you can definitely improve disease resistance, quality and yield.
However, that doesn't need to be all considered on your first grow because if this is done
right with the basic formula, you can have success and it will be significantly better
than what you can find locally.
It's still going to be great medicine.
And so the old rule of thumb that we'd use from the forums was to try and find a local
compost source that was quality if we could.
And that seems to be kind of a challenging part.
A lot of times you can reach around, reach out and find what people around the area are
saying is the best and word of mouth message boards, Craigslist, things like that.
And from there we would make a known kind of potting soil recipe.
And the main reason is that growing indoors is very different than considering your regional
soil and trying to amend that.
And in these containers we kind of have proven formulas where there's a certain amount of
aeration, a certain amount of the bulk medium like coconut core or peat moss, something
to be the fluff that holds all of this together.
And then another portion is the compost.
And so the recipe we first started with was a three part recipe, one part compost, one
part pumice or perlite or rice holes, anything that would add that drainage factor and one
part of compost.
So we used peat moss and we still do.
And that's mainly because you can add calcium to it to really get that balance.
But the shorthand is that if you mix peat moss or cocoa core with a good compost and
a drainage component, one third each, you should have a great beginnings of a living
soil.
And one of the things that we noticed in the living soil community was that like in hydroponic
you could say what's your pH, what's your water, and you could have the same conversation
coast to coast.
Where in organics it was always a little bit of nuance and that's where Build As Well
has brought in soil testing and premium compost that have kind of a known starting point.
But if you're going to start in your area, the old school trick, instead of using one
third compost and let's say you have access to a few different composts, I would try each
one of them at 10, 20 and 30 percent of my recipe and see how the plants do.
From that point forward, without spending a lot of money and time, you know basically
which direction to head.
Only reason I say that is sometimes a local municipal compost, it just might be too potent
at 30 percent where the worm castings down the street might be great at 30 percent.
And so that's the nuance for making your own soil.
Beyond that, Build As Well offers premixed soils and we also are aware of other manufacturers
that make good soils we like to recommend depending on where you live.
So let's address this idea of no-till right here because for years and years and years,
after every run we got rid of all of our soil.
And while that was fine for the times, I would say that two things that we've learned encourage
us to keep the soil from one run to another.
Number one, redoing your soil after every run can be expensive, especially if we're
trying to do this on a reasonable budget.
And then number two, when you're starting with brand new soil, the amount of time it
takes for the fungal networks to grow and the microbe numbers to increase in number
is about the same lifetime of a plant.
And so your soil is really just getting to be its best at right about the time of harvest.
And so I really like to just leave that soil in the container, top dress it to refresh
some of the nutrients and then just plant my new clone just to the side of where the
root ball already is from the prior plant.
That way you save some money and your second plant you're planting into a pot that is already
fungal rich.
What are your thoughts?
Oh man, that's perfect.
And it's all almost conditioned to be balanced towards that type of plant as well.
And so the limiting factor, like you said, is now we're erring on the side of monocropping
the same type of plant over and over again.
And one thing we know from farming is you probably got to like rotate crops, right?
And so one of the things we do to overcome that is by making sure that there's good biology
there and using best practices.
But because we're bringing it indoors and because we're harvesting and taking from the
soil, all you have to do is remember to top dress and add some basic organic amendments
back.
And as long as you're slowly feeding that system, it'll constantly feed back to the
plant and you'll have a lot of success.
Now in a regenerative agriculture setting, to build soil without soil testing that is
going to be productive, we know that you can basically use cover cropping and animal husbandry
and that would literally make soil out of nothing.
Just worms and predators and birds and everything you can think of.
We can't quite do that indoors, but one of the things we can do to improve a soil that
may not be adequately balanced is to grow a little bit of cover crop and you can, you
can get out of hand, but if you do it short and then just kind of work it in with your
hands, pretending like you're a migratory animal or stomping it down or chopping it
up, work it into the top layer, not really tilling, but just adding to that mulch layer,
that will create an ecosystem.
That ecosystem, if you put a few worms in there, will now constantly break that mulch
layer down for you, allowing you to keep your soil again and again and whenever you top
dress, that's basically feeding the worms that'll make this into an active fertilizer
for you.
And in doing so, it usually keeps it relatively balanced.
And we've learned a few things like calcium needs to be considered.
It's very important for disease resistance and plant health.
But as long as you know a couple of basics, a top dress is almost all you need once you
have this little ecosystem working and it just gets better and better with time.
Where one of the things I've observed is if things are too potent and we never grow a
cover crop or we never have the worms, it can kind of start to skew one direction.
And so it may not be immediately advantageous or it may not appear immediately advantageous
to add some worms or to go through the cover cropping process, but when they're used properly,
they can keep this ever cycling without getting out of balance.
And I think it's really valuable.
Before we leave soil, let's talk a little bit about nutrition.
Again, this is another topic that some people dedicate their whole lives to figuring out
what the best nutrition is.
But when you're starting out, you really can do a lot with just a little bit.
And what I tell the patients that I help them get their growth set up is that if they take
a good quality soil like you have described on the one third, one third, one third system
and that if you amend it with worm castings and you water with compost tea, that you will
not fail based on nutrition.
There may be things that you can do better as you get more experienced, but good worm
castings and compost tea will give you enough to give yourself some good medicine.
What are your thoughts on what is your entry level nutrition solution as you continue to
get more experience?
Perfect.
This is a really good question.
So you hit the nail on the head.
There's a wide enough margin of error where if you're using good inputs, you're going
to have good results.
Now from there, I will say the number one limiting factors that we've seen, and they
may not be immediately transparent, but you'll notice disease resistance and everything is
better.
And that is considering what a lot of people call like a high bricks methodology.
And that is typically when we look at what creates that nutrient dense, really sugar
creating plant is calcium, phosphorus and balance between the other cations and anions.
So when you have this balance, the plants biology and the plants resources, they're
never robbing Peter to pay Paul.
Nature has the ability to get the job done more ways than we can imagine, but it's path
of least resistance is how nature is going to work.
And if something's missing, it's just going to move on and use something else to do its
job.
Our goal is to keep the ink cartridge in our printer, so to speak, full.
That way we're never using the wrong color or anything.
And that's kind of what you're going to see where if you can focus on the number one limiting
factor, I think in a compost is that it's going to be low on calcium.
And second to that, usually it's going to be in balanced in the phosphorus to potassium.
And so right away without knowing much, if we just know we're using a lot of compost,
I know that usually calcium and phosphorus are low and potassium is high and it'll work
great.
But if we were to add some calcium and some phosphorus, either calphos is a great product
or gypsum and fishbone meal, there's a number of ways to do it depending on your resources.
You typically are going to gear yourself up for a healthier plant that's able to build
its cell walls faster, have a larger yield, and the phosphorus is going to be the main
energy source there.
That being said, we were successful for a long time using all of the compost and not
really considering those advanced topics.
So I've got a personal question of myself.
In adding calcium, one of the challenges is always having these inputs be available to
the plant because they need to be broken down by the biology a certain amount.
And I noticed that many organic shops, including your own, carry the crab meal.
And so I thought, oh, all right, well, I live on an island and we get crab all the time.
And so I just get the Dungeness crabs that we eat and I put them in a bag and I hit them
a bunch with a hammer to make my own dust and I kind of scratch it into my top and so
that I water through them.
Am I kidding myself that that calcium is bioavailable to the plant?
Dr. Justin Marchegiani No, that's perfect.
Not only that, you're getting a lot of chitin.
And I will say that one of the things you'll notice when you start, say, making a worm
bin, one of the first things you learn is that the worms don't eat anything.
They exude enzymes that are particular to the compound they're breaking down.
The first is cellulose, second is chitin.
Those are the two most abundant there are.
And so you're gonna have a lot of enzymes geared towards breaking those down.
But there are ones specific to phosphorus, calcium, all sorts of things.
And when you add that material, you're steering the biology to be creating materials that
will break that compound down.
And so in a worm bin, as long as you don't introduce a brand new material all the time,
it's normally microbially geared towards breaking that down.
The only difference in the product that we sell is that it's been ground down to probably
slightly finer.
And I will say that the way you're doing it, there's gonna be some short term and some
long term, but in a highly biologically active soil, especially one with worms, you're not
gonna have any problem making that calcium available.
I think it's a great way to go.
You can add eggshells, all sorts of things.
Essentially what we're looking at is calcium carbonate.
And there's many ways to get that, but there's also many forms of calcium.
And so as you start doing soil testing, you'll find there's calcium silicate, there's calcium
carbonate, there's calcium sulfate.
And so there's reasons to choose one or the other, but when you have a local resource
and you can use it like that, I'm a big fan.
Dr. Justin Marchegiani I'm a big fan anytime that we can do wildcrafting
too, right?
I mean, we want—
Dr. Peter Osborne Awesome.
It's great.
Dr. Justin Marchegiani We wanna make sure that we are kind to the
environment and we don't—we don't want to take so much that we cause environmental
degradation.
But gosh, there are so many things all around us that the earth gives us that sometimes
either just raw as is or with a little bit of effort, we can replace some of the costs
of our grow simply by taking a nice walk outside high, finding the particular, you know, plant
or whatever, and then bringing it back and chopping it up.
You know, of course, this is—this is how people get addicted and find their way to
Korean natural farming techniques, right?
But the idea of going out and interacting with nature and having to learn these plants
and bringing them back, I think there's a lot of value in that for folks.
Dr. Peter Osborne Oh, God.
There really is.
And one of the ways I would recommend to do that is to look around your local area.
For instance, here in Colorado, I can purchase a book that's edible plants of the Rockies
and there's several other ones.
So in your region, find a book that highlights the edible and medicinal plants in your area
and you'll—you'll be on—you'll be blown away how many there are around you
right on your property in the park nearby that you can go and—and leverage and use.
And so for instance, in—right down the street from me, there's a whole bunch of puzzlegrass,
they call it, and it's high in silica and it's basically horsetail.
And I'll go harvest that and top dress it.
And one of the things you get when you wild craft, especially in KNF, you learn this,
that if you get the fast growing tips of a healthy wild plant, it's gonna be coded in
the natural biology.
It's gonna have all the growth hormones that the tip of the plant and shoots have.
And because it's the healthy plant and it's the tip of the plant, you're not gonna have
any of the disease or pest problems.
So when you bring that home and you incorporate it in your system, I believe that's when
you're really building the ecosystem because you're actually bringing in biology and all
the things that are proven to be in a healthy phylosphere or a healthy root system.
The one caveat like you mentioned is we don't like educating people to go wild harvest and
find out that they are maybe abusing it a little bit.
So just be mindful and pull from multiple locations and be considerate and I think you'll
be really happy.
And you know, a lot of people live in places where maybe they don't have easy access to
nature and people would be astonished how many of the plants that your neighbors consider
invasives are actually really good for you.
You know, now granted, you don't want to go and harvest from a yard that they're using
pesticides in, right?
So you want to avoid that.
But where I live, people consider nettles an invasive as well as the horsetail and people
are like, come get all this stuff.
Well, it's like I'm happy to come and get that stuff because I can throw it in a bucket
of clean water with a bubbler and bubble it for 24 hours and water with that and my plants
are totally stoked about it and my neighbors consider it a good thing that I'm doing this
to help them.
Yep.
No, it's true.
I mean, I have bags of leaves, especially if I know a property that doesn't spray and
you can take the leaves and chop them up with grass and almost make an instant compost.
It breaks down so quickly.
There's tricks that you can use all the time that are regional, local based, depending
on your resources.
And I think that those are some of the parts where we really get to connect on a spiritual
level to the garden.
And a lot of our customers agree that there's more to it than just a part A and a part B
and an end result.
There's an enjoyment of the process and a realization that this is a lifetime and that
there's lots of lessons to be learned from it.
And embracing that creates a really rewarding garden system, I think.
Fantastic.
So when we come back from break, we're going to start off with the monster topic of lights.
But for right now, let's go ahead and take that first short break.
You're listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is Jeremy Silva, founder of Build-A-Soil.
This message is for folks who grow cannabis.
I'm talking to home growers, patients, and commercial growers too.
I'm probably talking to you.
When you plan out your next growing cycle, be sure to check out Humboldt CSI seeds at
humboldtcsi.com.
Caleb Inspecta and his family have lived in Humboldt County for over 100 years.
For the last 40 years, three generations of his family have cultivated extraordinary sensamea
cannabis in Humboldt, Mendocino, and Trinity counties.
Because of his lineage and the hard-earned experience that comes from growing up, smoking
and sifting large populations of cannabis plants in Northern California, the seeds you'll
cop from CSI will be winning genetics, based on long-time heavy hitters, and updated and
re-sifted to bring out new and exotic traits and better yields.
Go ahead and ask around.
Caleb, also known as Inspecta and Pirates of the Emerald Triangle, is a breeder's breeder.
He reaches way back and works with significant strains, recreating them in new and interesting
ways that you'll love as a toker and a grower, as well as offering you some surprises that
will delight serious seed traders and cultivators.
Humboldt CSI goes a further step and selfs all these chemovars so you know all the seeds
will be female.
These are not experimental feminized seeds.
Humboldt CSI releases some of the best female seeds available anywhere, and it will show
in your garden.
Folks grew quite a bit of CSI Humboldt GenX last year here on Vashon Island, and everyone
was pleased.
The patients had beautiful female plants and didn't have to cull half of their garden
as males.
The folks growing for the fun of getting high grew colorful flowers with exceptional bag
appeal and great highs.
And breeders had 7 out of 7 females in a pack, which gave them a lot of phenotypic choices.
Take a moment right now and visit humboldtcsi.com.
You'll find an up-to-date menu of both feminized and regular lines, along with photos and descriptions.
That's humboldtcsi.com.
Living soil and regenerative cannabis agriculture are surging in popularity, and to implement
these biological solutions, real science education is vital.
If you are interested in all things probiotic growing, you will probably want to attend
this year's Science of Organic Regenerative Cannabis Cultivation Conference.
For the third year in a row, co-founders Joshua Rutherford of Dutch Blooms and Leighton Morrison
of Kingdom Aquaponics have lined up an incredible array of educators with all new content for
the traveling event.
They're calling it Version 2.0, going deeper down the rabbit hole.
This year's teaching staff includes Elaine Ingham on soil biology, Chris Trump and Wendy
Kornberg talking Korean natural farming, Kevin Jodry on cannabis genetics, Kelly and
Josh from Dragonfly Earth Medicine, Suzanne Wainwright the bug lady, Chip Osborne on soil
chemistry, and many other thought leaders rotating in and out for different cities.
So consult the website to know who specifically is coming for each location.
There will be a breeding panel, a Q&A panel with the entire teaching staff, and on Saturday
night there will be a bubble hash discussion as well.
Joshua has built in significant informal time for you with the teachers.
The teaching staff is just as excited to work with you as you are about attending.
There is also no advertising during the event.
The only vendor booths are for cannabis seed breeders.
Your tuition is what's paying the staff, so they'll all be present and attentive
to you, not a corporate sponsor.
Even better, the conference is not just for folks on the West Coast.
Humboldt, California is hosting one event for sure, but the show is going on the road
to Vancouver, British Columbia, Portland, Maine, and Whitmore Lake, Michigan.
Get out your pen now, because I'm about to give you the website.
This is a fabulous opportunity for you to hear from an array of nationally recognized
top shelf soil educators all in one place.
Not only that, this isn't just beginner stuff like you get at most conventions.
This is an intensive for people like us who totally nerd out on the rhizosphere and growing
and living soil.
If you attended last year, be assured that this year is not simply a repeat of last year.
Every speaker will present different material than they did last year.
The website is regenerativeorganiccannabis.com.
That's regenerativeorganiccannabis.com.
This year, tickets will be limited in number to preserve the intimate experience and will
only be sold in advance online.
There will be no ticket sales at the door.
So don't wait and miss out on your chance to attend this important gathering of the
regenerative cannabis community.
Cut through all the misinformation out there and don't miss this opportunity to learn
real soil science.
Regenerativeorganiccannabis.com.
One of the reasons why no-till cannabis growing is so valued by farmers is because the mycelium
networks in the soil remain established from year to year.
And we know these fungal networks are essential because they are the nutrient superhighways
that extend far and wide in the substrate to feed your plants.
The trouble with growing in new soils or blended cocoa substrates is that it takes most of
the plant's life just to create these mycelium highways.
Dynomyco-endomycorrhizal fungi inoculant reduces that time and gets your plant eating a wider
array of nutrients faster.
And it's three times the concentration of the current leading brand in the US at 900
ppg of two fungal species selected specifically for cannabis cultivation.
This new product called Dynomyco is the result of 30 years of research and trials at the
Volcani Agriculture Research Institute in Israel.
It has also been vigorously trialed by cannabis and food growers across the US since the product
first arrived here last year.
You may have already heard about Dynomyco by its original name, Dynomyc.
Now Dynomyco is available at grow shops and online in the United States for the first
time.
I love using Dynomyco to both speed up the growth of mycelium networks in the soil, but
also as a biostimulant to make clone cuttings more virile.
You can see side by side showing the comparative growth on their Instagram at Dynomyco.
If you demand reliable growing results and appreciate the importance of an active root
zone in creating a thriving plant, I encourage you to check out Dynomyco at dynomyco.com
and find out where you can get yours.
That's d-y-n-o-m-y-c-o dot com.
Whether you are starting with new beds or pots, or if you want to add some zing to tired
soil, choose Dynomyco to maximize your plant's potential.
Dynomyco Endomycorrhizal Inoculant.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose, and our guest this week is Jeremy Silva, founder of Build-A-Soil.
So here we are in the second set, and we are going to start off with the monster in the
room, which is lights.
And I'm not going to front.
Lights is actually the part of the growing process that I am the weakest because I have
got a four by four indoors that I use to dabble with and to learn how to scrog and things.
But really, I'm all about the outdoor.
I grow every summer and I prepare all winter for that summer grow.
And because of that, I don't really have the same kind of depth in lights as a lot
of folks do.
When I did go and get my lights, I essentially just asked my buddy who was really into LED
which one I should buy for the money I have, and boom, I went and I bought it and that
was that.
However, we really want to get people prepared to either get a cast off light from a friend
or potentially get a light second hand at a reasonable price.
Or if you've got the budget, maybe get one of these sexy new LEDs.
So with that, Jeremy, I'm just going to hand you the mic and say, walk us through the considerations
for lights that you see most common with the customers who come in.
All right.
This is great.
And there's a lot of things that I learned the hard way.
I hung a light that was too powerful for my grow space thinking, oh, I'll buy a really
nice grow light.
This will be perfect.
And I wasn't ready on the ventilation side and my plants didn't grow.
It was a pretty bad experience.
And through that lesson, I learned a lot.
And it's more about getting the right light for your situation or leveraging the light
you have to work in your situation than it is about getting any specific brand or specific
product.
Of course, there's lights that are better than others.
But as far as getting a grow light is concerned, you're going to get an end result that's based
on most directly the wattage.
And then secondarily to that, how you're going to manage the heat that it puts off.
And that is directly related to the height.
So if you have a very low grow tent or ceiling, you're going to be forced to look at newer
technologies that don't push so much heat straight down.
Or you're going to look at lower energy technologies like CFL, T5, things that are more challenging
and less rewarding from yield but can still be done at a very quality level.
So let's say you get a used light and let's say it's an HID.
That's a high intensity discharge.
Most of the lights we read about and used for decades were either a metal halide, the
bluer large bulb, or a high pressure sodium, the more red orange looking light that was
for flower.
And then the blue is for veg.
You can still get those really cost effective.
And I will give you a couple things to consider.
Number one is you're going to have to replace the bulbs.
And that's a little bit of a cost.
Initially, it may not matter.
There's a safety factor.
If you've got a family, if you're worried about fires, if you've got some potential
there where maybe it's dirty or something, at least consider that.
So you clean it.
You're aware of the limitations and that that is thought of because the new technology,
albeit expensive, is very safe.
And then after that, you can consider the PAR.
And a way to do that, PAR is photosynthetically active radiation.
But basically it's the output of the light.
They're going to advertise on the old lights lumens.
That's what the humans see.
PAR is more what the spectrum, the plants see.
And when you look for a light, all we're trying to do is gauge the distance.
So if you've got a six foot tall grow tent, you look up the light that you got from a
buddy or on Craigslist or what you have access to purchase, and it says at two feet, the
PAR is X or at one foot, the PAR is X.
Consider that and follow those manufacturer recommendations.
If you can get that information normally in veg, you're safe anywhere from 100 to 500
PAR.
And in flower, the range is 500 to 1,000.
As you get closer to 1,000, it's a little bit intense.
It might be a little bit bright on the top buds.
And if you've got an old light that's putting a lot of heat out, you might have to have
it further in your grow tent up and that might limit the height of the plant.
So any light will work.
You just have to start to be aware of those limiting factors.
Does that make sense?
Yeah, it does.
Because really we all grow weed with all these different lights.
And so you just have to be prepared.
Like, okay, if you're going to choose a solution that fits your budget but produces a lot of
heat, well, then you're going to have to make up for the heat.
If you've got more money but you don't want to have as much heat, well, okay, well then
you're going to react to that.
I like your general thought though to get started with whatever you can and don't put
off the growing just because you don't have the sexy new light budget.
Yeah, and especially if you're like me and you were buying cannabis beforehand, it's
going to save room in your budget so quickly once you get started.
You'll change from being just a consumer to being a producer and that'll give you options.
Even if you never make money from your grow and you never sell a vegetable, never trade
cannabis, just having offset your own personal budget and being efficient enough to not overpay
in electricity versus your production, you'll be doing great.
Now the new spectrums, the new technology, they definitely produce better quality.
So if you're in a situation where you can just go buy a grow light, I would definitely
recommend looking at LED, ceramic metal halide, because those two technologies are pretty
proven and there's a lot of manufacturers that make them and there's a lot of basic
information about how far to put them, all that stuff.
So let's hit on, can you say a couple words about the age of bulbs?
Because there are a lot of people who get lights from their friends and bulbs have only
got a certain amount of life in them before they start to shift spectrum.
But because I've never owned these, I've never had that experience myself.
Yeah, and you'll notice, so there's a couple things.
It used to be that we all used glass hoods and you'll find that if you're in the used
market you'll find an air cooled glass encased hood where the bulb is up in this big hood
and below it is this glass panel that closes and then you can put vents on both sides and
move the air quickly through there.
The idea is that now you can use a very powerful grow light, getting the actual PAR level that
we want on the surface of the plant without getting the heat directly on the plant.
You'll suck it out of there with a vent.
The challenge is that blocks the light, it gets dirty inside of there, it lowers the
actual light value if you're not considering cleaning it.
And then from there, the lamp inside there can get dirty and then beyond that, if you're
not cleaning that lamp between cycles, it also decays.
And when it starts to decay, the ballast that is sending the power continues to feed
100% of the power to a bulb that can no longer receive it.
So once it gets out of whack, it starts to decline faster and faster because it can no
longer handle the excessive power that it's receiving based on its decay.
And I think that it's not just a dimmer, it's not just dimmer.
And so if you were to read the PAR, it may not be a huge difference, but it starts to
slide in spectrum.
So if you're trying to use that ink analogy, if you've got a light that is able to produce
a certain picture of color, as it decays, it's not able to fulfill that color and it
starts to change.
And so you'll notice, depending on the manufacturer, after a couple of cycles, you start to either
lose a quality or a yield.
And so some growers either get a cheap bulb and change it every single time.
Some alternative growers will say, hey, I'd rather get the best quality lamp and I'll
replace it according to the directions, which is usually on a certain number of hours.
And if it's only in your flower room, that's 12 hours a day.
You can calculate that number of hours and it's kind of like a water filter.
Sure, you can push it longer, but are you still receiving all of the benefit?
So this conversation moves smoothly into the discussion of ventilation.
There is an entire range of ventilation woes from the worst, where you've got a really
hot light that if you don't ventilate coming out of your tent, it'll just cook your plants,
all the way to very modern LED, which are pretty much cool.
They might give off some heat, but nothing that's going to threaten your plants and may
actually help your tent stay at a pleasant temperature just because that heat it's giving
off is actually going to be an advantage.
So I think a lot of people miss the idea that it's not just simply taking an exhaust tube
and putting it from the inside of the tent to the outside of the tent.
The amount of energy that goes into your fan is something that really should be considered.
Yes.
And I think that the home grower would be, they could benefit from two tools here.
Obviously, you need an exhaust fan.
You can have an intake fan and a lot of people will match the power of those.
Or the next tool that I recommend would be a variable speed controller, kind of like
a dimmer switch for your fan.
We carry a product that has one built in, or you can buy the basic one and add it separately.
And another thing that you can use is a feature where you can either control it on humidity,
or you can just use a basic timer and turn your fan on and off based on a timer sequence.
And the reason why these tools are important is most growers find that when they just hook
up a fan, it may not be exactly what they need to keep their environment right.
And so there's a couple scenarios I'll share.
If you have a light that's older and puts out more heat, heat is based on the wattage.
So if you have a thousand watt light, it's going to put out very similar amount of heat
to a brand new thousand watt LED.
The difference is most people LED wise are so much more efficient, they can use half
the wattage and produce very similar results.
So there's going to be less heat.
The other difference is that the newer products like that, they push less heat down and more
heat comes off the top.
So it's easy to evacuate from the top of the tent by exhausting the air.
And as you mentioned, if you need that warmth, here it's cold in Colorado, that enables you
to either slow the venting down or put it on a timer so that you can keep the heat in
the tent.
And so the consideration to balance there is one of looking back at the weakest link.
The weakest link in a grow room is going to be the extreme.
So if temperature is too high, you have to vent.
But let's say the temperature's in range.
Now the reason to vent is based on CO2 and humidity.
So the two things to remember is that plants require CO2 to grow.
So if you put them in a sealed room with no fresh air, they will eventually suffocate
from burning all the CO2, just like a human would with a bag over their head with no oxygen.
So in a grow room, we need to ventilate it.
Every bit of fresh air you bring in adds fresh CO2.
That's why a lot of organic growers won't supplement CO2 because they'd rather just
have passive or active airflow and that's where they get CO2, just like nature.
So as long as you have some air moving, you're fine.
That doesn't mean it needs to be cycling like crazy.
So if it is too cold and it's really low humidity, I would actually run my fan maybe every 15
minutes every hour and that might keep me warm enough and it might keep my humidity
up because the plants transpire.
It makes a really nice greenhouse effect in there.
But here in Colorado, if I just plug my fan in full blast 24-7, it's going to be less
than 10% humidity and it might be too cold.
So venting and lighting is based on trying to find the optimal environment and without
knowing your actual numbers, I would say that if you can have in veg 70 degrees, 75, 80
degrees, somewhere in that range and a high humidity, 50 to 70%, you're going to have
very fast growth.
Contrary to that in flour, you probably want to say in a similar temperature range and
colder at the end is not as bad, but you don't want to be above 50% humidity for most people.
You want to be in that 40 to 50 range so you can have good plant health, but avoid
the mold.
If you consider all that and you're able to get the environment right and your vent is
on every once in a while, you've made it.
You're good to go.
I've heard many people try to save money when they're setting up by using an exhaust fan,
but skipping the intake fan on the idea that, well, when I'm sucking air out of the tent,
there are enough like little spaces between threads and areas between zippers where, but
where air gets pulled in to, uh, just because there's a vacuum being created inside the
tent.
Is that foolhardy?
No, that's perfect.
Um, you have to be aware of what it does.
So here's the thing that's called passive air intake.
When you exhaust, it creates that effect where, because air is leaving, air is going to come
in somewhere.
The challenge is if your tent is very sealed and it's in flour and you don't want any light
leaks, it's going to suck the sides of your tent and dramatically reducing your space.
There's two considerations.
One is if you have a Scroggs screen frame or a PVC frame in there that you build to
put a screen on, um, that creates a frame that will not allow the tent to suck in anymore.
And now the only side effect is a negative pressure, which does keep it fairly clean
because now the air is constantly exhausting any contaminants, any molds, but likely not
a lot is coming in.
Um, alternative to that, you can on a veg tent open up.
A lot of these tents have a Velcro flap that you can roll up and it will really let the
air in so that when you're exhausting, it comes in at a high rate.
Um, and I think that that's fine because a lot of times you end up replacing these fans.
They're constantly burning electricity.
And so as long as you can get it to work, I think it's great.
However, if you really do want to filter that air that's coming in and put a set speed so
that the tent feels like it's not getting sucked in, the added cost of a intake fan
and a filter, um, will keep clean air so you don't have debris and hair and stuff floating
into your tent that will get onto your buds.
And if you have a weakened immune system, that extra step might be super important for
you.
So, you know, all of this has been leading up to actually growing the plants and people
ask me, you know, like what should I grow?
And what I tell people is grow what you want, right?
Like most people are usually getting into this because there's a certain flowers that
they particularly like and they want to make sure they have them.
Or if this is specifically for their health, they're growing the plants that they need
to get the relief they're looking for.
Um, I'm not really familiar of any cultivars that should not be grown in tents.
I mean, certainly a lot of the, the, the thinner, taller growing sativas, you have to definitely
be aware of their heighth.
Um, and you have to manage that, which we'll talk about a little bit later.
But, um, have you, you know, you do a lot of side by side testing.
Have you come across any cultivars which really are, should not be considered for tent?
Um, no.
Like you said, stretch is the key component and time of flower.
So if your electricity is very expensive, it would behoove you to grow something that
finishes faster because the juice may not be worth the squeeze.
However, if it's very affordable and or you're blessed with an unlimited budget, you can
look at it as growing whatever you want because this is for you.
The main difference there would be, hey, if I'm growing a really, um, you know, long flowering,
narrow leaf plant that's going to stretch a lot, I would flip it into flower almost
immediately from transplant, maybe after a few days of veg so that I can, um, be prepared
for any amount of stretch in any duration of time it takes.
The only time I see challenges when people get, um, you know, they grow too big of a
plant for their environment and too big of a plant leads to less airflow and more crowding
and more disease and pests and bugs and all the problems.
So if you're going to, um, do growing for quality, always err on the side of more room,
smaller plant, and then as you start to learn your process, you can totally push those boundaries
as opposed to overdoing it the first time and not having the bandwidth to handle it.
So let's, let's talk, talk about some of the challenges that we're going to run into.
Um, uh, during the last set, we're going to talk about some, some advanced, uh, tent techniques,
but really there's some basic stuff that we can do to make sure that when we, when we
either will not run into these challenges at all, um, or if we do, we'll be set up for
success.
And of course the one at the top of the list is pests, right?
Um, everybody's scared to death of it.
And, um, and, and when you're indoor, you've got a lot less flexibility than you do outdoor
where there's already all of these, uh, natural predators outside.
Um, as so I would say one thing, and we'll be talking more about, um, companion plants
later is to, is to plant pests or, or excuse me, plant plants that, um, uh, attract, um,
you know, the, the predators, but that really is works best outside because if our, if we're
running our tent properly indoors, we're not going to be attracting anything in because
it's going to be sealed up and secure.
And so we really only have solutions that occur within the tent.
So, so what are some basics that we can follow basic rules that we can follow, um, so that
we just don't get pests to begin with?
Yeah, this is great.
So the first thing to consider is healthy seeds because in life, let's say we had the
ability to pick our genetics that probably prevent most of our problems, right?
At least the ones that are out of our control.
So getting good seeds, not a clone from a friend.
If you really have to have that clone only, it's just difficult.
I mean, I've known people that really trust another friend, but until they get involved
in growing, may not know their little secrets about what poisons they use or what pests
and disease they might have.
So if you start from seed, you're, you're sure to be good.
And if you can get a reputable breeder with really quality seeds, it will dramatically
change your first experience.
If you get the proper genetics, it will resist disease and pests and grow healthy and have
a good yield almost despite you.
But with the wrong seeds, um, it can make it a lot, a lot less rewarding and that may
affect your ability to continue this and sustain it versus having to buy what you actually
know will produce the value for you.
So get good seeds and you'll be off to a great start.
Second to that, just like human nutrition, there's a lot more than just what you eat.
You have to have a good environment.
And so that means that if you focus on the venting, the light, and you get it in the
right temperature and the humidity is good and you've put maybe a hygrometer temperature
in there and you've checked the highs and lows to make sure you don't have major swings.
Once you know you're there, most of your problems will go away with good genetics and good environment.
So do not discount that.
If you have high heat and you have, um, you know, really no humidity or, or way high humidity
all the time, that's going to be more important than any nutritional aspect we can cover.
Now, if those are covered and we're looking at nutrition and everything, we want to make
sure that there's some basics that we may be keeping the tent clean, some basics as
far as nutrition so they don't run out.
Because where nature likes to bring disease and pests is to clean things up.
So if you are having an unhealthy plant or it's out of place because the environment's
not right, it's just going to call the signal in to decompose it, have the pests eat it.
And that's typically where we get the problems.
Alternative to that, like I mentioned, is getting a clone that's already infested.
And usually if it's your first time, you just don't know until it's too late.
So avoid that.
And I think that you're going to avoid 99% of the pitfalls that most growers fall into.
I totally agree.
And I think that a lot of people assume that pests are going to be part of their indoor
growing experience.
And it really doesn't have to.
If you are keeping the tent within expected parameters and if you don't get cuts from
your friends, because I would say that is the number one way that pests get introduced
is somebody's got this great plant and they give you a cut and it's got something on it.
And while I'm a big fan of dipping cuts, if you have to have it, I'm way more of a fan
of not taking that cut at all and just finding yourself a quality seed.
Not only that, clones are not as vigorous as growing from seeds.
And nowadays, when we can get feminized seeds, a lot of people would skip seeds because they're
like, oh, I don't want to go through the process of sexing and then cutting off of it and all
that.
And believe me, I get that.
That can be a hassle, especially if you're a patient with limited resources and time
and space.
But now that we're in the land of feminized seeds, if you're really just trying to get
something going, one seed equaling one feminized plant really takes out a lot of the reason
to go down the clone path to even begin with.
Then you can clone your own and you're good to go.
And with feminized seed, you can flower right from seed, have very small plants and a high
plant count and get a harvest almost immediately instead of buying auto flowers.
However, if plant count is a limiting factor, you can treat them just like a normal plant,
clone them, keep them, do everything that you would want.
And it's very rewarding to do that.
I really agree on that.
The other thing you mentioned was maybe some preventative tactics.
And one of the things I've learned about nature is it abhors a void.
It's going to fill it with something.
And if we bring in this really rich compost and this beautiful potting soil and this warm,
humid environment and this grow light, I don't care how good you are, there will be a time
where there's an issue.
And to prevent that from ever being a problem, this is like using a probiotic method instead
of an antibiotic method.
We will.
Typically, when we start a new grow, we will either harvest some plants locally and put
them in as top dress to start the process.
We'll put worms in.
But I'll also order usually nematodes, predator mites, and rove beetles.
And we will put them in the container.
Once I've done that, I want to make sure they stay alive.
So I usually put in the cover crop.
And the cover crop, I never let out compete.
I always let it stay low and I'll smash it down.
But the added benefit is it will produce an environment that will house all these predators
and it will feed them pollen and it will feed them exudates and all these things that keep
them active so that if anything ever gets in there, you have a whole entire army ready
to destroy it so that you never have an issue.
And we have two grow tents doing side by side in a retail store in a farming environment
with every known problem in the epicenter of hemp and cannabis.
And we've never had an issue knock on wood because we immediately put in rove beetles,
predator mites.
We use good practices.
And so now we have kind of a team helping us instead of the bubble boy syndrome where
it is so sterile.
If one thing gets in there, it's going to be the end.
And so I've noticed that usually organic growers that preemptively add the worms and the beneficials,
they just don't have any issues.
Now if you can't afford the beneficials on your first grow, get some good compost.
It's normally going to be a byproduct by your second or third cycle.
You're going to be like, where did all this life come from?
How did it get here?
I can't help but laugh thinking about that.
I had never really, you know, I follow you on Instagram and I follow your side by sides
that you pretty much continually do.
But it's only now occurring to me that you've got growers from all over Colorado walking
to, you know, coming into your store.
I got russet mites.
What is this bug?
I'm like, get the fuck out of here.
What a man.
Are you serious?
You got to keep those bulletproof.
Get out of here.
Oh man.
So, so yeah.
And you know, so many times with new growers, the first thing that they have to deal with
is fungus gnats because you know, I think that we all tend to overwater.
And the beneficial nematodes that you're talking about, especially the, I think it's pronounced
hypo ACIS nematodes that take care of fungus gnats.
You know, that's a great place to start.
And granted, you know, you know, all three of the categories that you suggested when
they work in concert together.
But you know, if you've got limited, if you've got limited budget, if you can get rid of
those fungus gnats you can, you can avoid them eating at your roots and my gosh, just
the, the emotional distress of fungus gnats.
Um, that, you know, that, that can, that can dampen the growing experience itself.
Oh God.
If your wife is in the other room or some of your roommate or something and is like,
why are these gnats coming from?
I can put a damper on things pretty quick.
So, and they go, they go from the grow room to the kitchen really quickly.
Yeah.
It's going to be the number one problem.
And thankfully it's not a very big deal.
And by your second or third cycle, there'll be a hundred percent gone.
That's the advantage of not having to start from scratch every single time.
But I don't care what we do.
If we get a compost involved, there is a chance that their favorite food, um, that's favorite
food is going to be that compost.
And it's, it's possible there's a larva.
It's possible that they're in the house plants already or somehow they get in that soil.
And the idea of putting the hypoapsis, you meant they changed their name to, I think
Stratio now may have changed again, but those are the predator mites and those will eat
the larva and they're great.
The nematodes are a little smaller.
So the idea of the three was the smallest it is in the nematode, it's microscopic inside
the soil.
And the next was the predator mite.
And that is the next size up larger than that is the Rove beetle, which is about the size
of a grain of rice.
And so when you cover all three of those sizes, you fill a knock, a lot of nooks and crannies
within the ecosystem.
And if you get that started right away, even if there is some gnat larva, it's never going
to be a problem.
You might see a few gnats, it'll never get out of control and eventually goes away.
However, um, if there, if you wait until you have the problem, it's going to take a month
or so and it's going to take some active participation on not excessive watering and really making
sure that you consider all the things to get rid of these gnats.
The good news is you can grow an entire cycle and have bad gnats.
And the only downside is they may be a vector landing in your leaf material.
And when you go to trim, you might want to be conscious of that and make sure that it
doesn't involve itself in your final product.
But by the second cycle, they'll be gone.
The other consideration here is that even though people may have a problem with really
young plants eating the roots, if you've got a mulch system in place, they're going to
eat the debris there.
They're not going to eat the plant roots and in a healthy living soil, the plant will persist
almost despite the gnats no matter what.
And there's some tricks that we have.
You can remove the entire top one or two inches and discard it.
That's where most of the larva would be if it gets out of control.
And then you could put a barrier in temporarily, a layer of sand, a layer of something that
will suffocate them out and kill them.
You can remove the layer, put in fresh mulch, start back up again, and normally we'll never
have a problem again.
So it's totally handleable.
I'm laughing at myself because I just broke one of my own rules.
And luckily you corrected it because, you know, as, as a source of information, I have
to be really clean about the information that I give people.
Right.
So I was suggesting species of beneficial nematodes and thank you for the correction
just because I thought I was repeating what I learned over the weekend at the regenerative
agriculture conference from Suzanne the bug lady.
Right.
But clearly I remembered it wrong and I had not tried them myself.
And, you know, once you try something yourself, then you really have experience with it and
you can start sharing with people.
I went like, Oh, there I went.
And I just, I, I passed on information incorrectly.
And that's like one of my, one of my pet peeves is when anybody does that, right?
It's like classic bro science I just did.
Yeah.
But you did a good job in the sense that your source was a very proven source that's reputable.
And although you confused a couple of the words, it would have led to the correct information
for anyone that does their part, which is researching whatever they receive as information
to process into their garden.
So I don't care if I provide the information or someone else does do a Google real quick.
Just make sure that you're doing your part in your garden.
So you're never a victim of bad information.
And I think that you're going to be really happy having your own garden and it's going
to be a gateway.
You may end up growing your own food.
You may end up sharing this lifestyle with another person.
And I tell you what, it may not be your family's favorite thing if you're in a state where
this is not talked about or it's frowned upon.
As they age and have pain and can't sleep, you're going to be the number one resource
in your family for providing relief and assistance.
And it's only a matter of time until people understand how beneficial these plants really
are.
Yeah, that's fantastic.
And just to be clear, it was my error in my notes.
I'm sure that whatever came out of Suzanne the Bug Lady's mouth was accurate.
It was my notes that were wrong.
To your point, I love the saying that cannabis is a gateway to horticulture.
Because so many people, once they start playing with the cannabis plant and they've got their
first cycle, I'm like, oh my God, I did this thing.
I interacted with nature.
It's a very short jump to growing your own vegetables.
And I mean, heck, we'll talk about this more in a little bit, but it's even fun to grow
lettuces and other potential things inside your tent with your plants.
Once you get over the hump that you can and deserve to interact with nature, all the doors
fling open.
Yep.
It's incredible.
I mean, you can go down the rabbit hole.
It's like your own Lego set with nature.
You have these periodic table of elements.
And although there's so many of them, all they are is a mixture of energy in about nine
different rotational shapes.
And somehow they create our entire fucking universe.
And when you can interact, if you've like, I grew up at a cul-de-sac and you plug me
into this system where I'm manifesting my own reality and transmuting a thought of this
plant into 3D printed version in front of you.
It's like there's a power in that.
And all of a sudden you start looking forward to the days after you plant the seeds and
you start looking forward to opening the tent door and it really starts to take over your
life in ways that you'd never expect.
Yep.
Let's do one more best practices before we go to our second commercial.
And just like pests, mold, you know, bitritis and powdery mildew scare the hell out a lot
of people for good reason.
But really, if you set yourself up correctly from the beginning, your likelihood of having
any issues decreases greatly.
So what are those best practices?
Oh, this is good.
So PM and mold are the two biggest issues.
I've been through both of them and they're horrifying.
So powdery mildew, if you've never experienced it, it's a white mildewy kind of almost like
powdered sugar looking thing on your leaves.
If it's your first grow, you may even mistake it for a lot of frost and be embarrassed to
find out that it's powdery mildew.
Prevention of this is typically having a very healthy plant in a ecosystem that is conducive.
And contrary to popular belief, having high humidity will not cause powdery mildew.
It usually prevents it.
The low humidity, alternatively, can create a powdery mildew situation.
Research it.
Obviously, there's no simple rule with nature.
There's hundreds of types of powdery mildew.
Typically that PM is subject to a very narrow range of host plants.
So if you find PM in the garden plants out front of your house, it doesn't mean that
it's going to be in your garden.
But if you have a very unhealthy environment in your garden, it isn't in the air and it
will find its way.
And if you're in a heavily garden area like the Pacific Northwest, it's more prevalent
in the air.
And that means that if you have the wrong environment, it will host itself.
Almost matter of fact, just like making sourdough bread, you leave out the material, it's going
to happen.
So that being considered or that taken into consideration, if you have the right environment,
that means you have airflow.
The temperatures are proper and the humidity is proper.
That's going to lead to a healthy plant that is not underwater on accident for days at
a time.
If that is all taken right, then that means that the next step is to consider your environment
being flat with a light.
It's not a sun going around the plant.
And in a tent, as you start to maximize the space, you're going to have to now clean up
the lower legs of the plant, remove leaves so that there's more airflow and you don't
have a hosting spot for moisture to sit on certain leaves where it can be a vector for
disease to grow.
And then as you get into flower, the opposite is true.
If you have too high of a humidity, that can lead to actual betrayed us or this bud
rot, they call it of mold growing in a very dense, wet flower.
And this will happen if your exhaust fan kicks off and the heat of the light goes up and
the humidity goes up and you're unaware of it.
Or it can happen if the humidity of the lung room goes up seasonally.
So you may have had your first grow perfect and all of a sudden it's now in a more humid
time of year and you didn't change anything.
So as a grower, as you start to cycle, you need to be in tune with nature cycles as they
affect your house.
If you run a swamp cooler where you live, that's a different type of season than when
you don't have a swamp cooler running because the humidity.
So consider those things.
You'll never have humidity, you'll never have powdery mildew.
If you live in the worst area, you might want to add a weekly spray.
We use an EM five, dr.
Bronner soap, plain water.
I mean, you just want to kind of keep the leaf surface clean of the actual powdery mildew
spore or the betridus spores.
And in flower, you don't want to have to spray.
So it's better to get the environment right than trying to fight it.
And those are pretty much everything I'd say about powdery mildew and mold.
Very good.
And you know, I really like the, the preventative of a spray myself.
I like using either an EM or a compost tea because the idea is there's only room for
the opportunistic powdery mildew to live on the leaf if there's not already a heavy
duty microbe colony already living there that would consume the PM when, as soon as it lands.
So if you're, if you're spraying, you know, something, something microbial and healthy
all through veg on a regular schedule and your leaves are, you know, the tops and bottoms
are essentially this like beneficial army of microbes, you know, by, as you roll into
flower, your likelihood of having to do anything during flower, um, is the best.
Cause of course you're going to stop spraying cause you don't want to get your spray in
the flowers.
But, but really if you are diligent during veg, uh, the likelihood that you will have
any problem during flower is astronomically decreased.
Yes.
And the only reason I mentioned having everything proper is having sprays and having all these
things will work very well.
But even if you have it all wrong, narrowing your window of opportunity down to just flower,
just the last half of flower that'll eliminate a lot of issues.
But if you can make it with the environment is proper no matter what, that'll widen your
range and I'll tell you what those will do for you when you first start growing and you're
up against it and you may not consider these things we discussed today, your plant health
will decline and it's almost like, can I make it to finish?
And then when you start getting good at it,
I have lived this hell.
Yeah.
Oh man, it sucks.
But when you get past that and you could literally go infinitely, you can let a plant truly ripen
to its real potential and still be at peak health and that'll allow you to really enjoy
the nuances this plant has to offer.
And you'll soon find out why what's readily available on the market is not the same as
what you can produce yourself based on all those nuances of preference that you're going
to learn based on just this growing affinity with your own garden.
The worst case scenario is that you're about to flip to bloom and you have these problems
preexisting.
You really don't want to go into bloom with the issues.
So if you need to put off your flower a little bit until you get this stuff cleared up, you
might as well because that might just cost you a week or two instead of wasting all your
effort by everything falling apart during bloom.
Yes.
So just like life, nature in the garden, it's going to be a little bit of a condensed timeframe,
but it's going to teach you lessons.
And if you don't learn it the first time, it's going to get bigger and bigger and bigger.
So as soon as you notice an environmental difference, try and fix it.
And as soon as you notice something off, try and be considerate of it.
If you wait and put it off until tomorrow or next week, as a grower, that is the first
habit you have to get rid of and it's going to improve every part of your life.
Fabulous.
So let's go ahead and take that second short break.
We'll be right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is Jeremy Silva, founder of Build a
Soil.
Did you know that Shaping Fire has a fabulous YouTube channel with content not found on
the podcast?
When I attend conventions or speak or moderate panels, I always record them and bring the
content home for you to watch.
The Shango Lowe's YouTube channel has world-class speakers, including Kevin Jodry of Wonderland
Nursery talking about breeding cannabis for the best terpene profile.
Nicholas Mahmood on regenerative and polyculture cannabis growing.
Dr. Sunil Agarwal on the history of cannabis medicine around the world.
Ben Cassidy of True Terpenes on using terpenes for health in your everyday life.
Reggie Godino of Steep Hill on the cannabis genome and Jeff Lowenfels on the soil food
web.
There are several presentations from Dr. Ethan Russo on terpenes and the endocannabinoid
system and even my own presentation on how to approach finding your dream job in cannabis
and why we choose cannabis business even though the risks are so high.
As of today, there are over 100 videos that you can check out for absolutely free.
Go to youtube.com forward slash shango lows or click on the link in this week's newsletter.
Skinny dipping, humpback whales, beatnik poetry, the Ottoman Empire, soil remediation, interdimensional
beings and tree frogs.
These are just a few of the interesting topics you can find in the audiobooks library at
audible.com.
If you like podcasts like Shaping Fire, chances are that you'll dig audiobooks too.
Just like with podcasts, audiobooks speak to you, telling you stories and teaching you
stuff.
Here's the thing.
Audible.com has an offer I want to tell you about.
Right now they're offering a trial of their audiobook service for absolutely free.
You can go to shapingfire.com forward slash audible and you will get a free audiobook
straight up.
You can listen to it on your mobile device, computer or you can download it and listen
to it like anywhere.
It's really simple.
Of course they want you to subscribe to their service after the free trial and enjoy their
audiobooks forever.
But you don't have to.
All you have to do to get the free audiobook of your choice is to check out the service
for free.
So that's the deal.
Your first book is free, it's easy to sign up, it's easy to quit and their online library
of free books is pretty incredible.
Just check it out.
Go to shapingfire.com forward slash audible to find out more or click on the link in this
week's newsletter.
Farmers who grow in living soil are very particular on what inputs they use in their soil.
They educate themselves and painstakingly create compost and nutritive teas to create
thriving soils that will produce the very best expression of the cannabis plant.
Many living soil farmers now believe that, over time, seeds become acclimated to the
kind of substrate they are grown in.
For example, a seed that was bred in synthetic fertilizers may not immediately know what
to do in a living soil environment, slowing their growth and decreasing yield.
The Regenerative Seed Cooperative is a different kind of seed bank.
The Regenerative Seed Cooperative only provide cannabis seeds that were bred in living soil
and using probiotic growing techniques.
That way, when you germinate in soil, the seed's genetics will recognize the environment
and immediately start interacting with microbes and fungal networks.
These seeds are described as bio-intelligent.
The number of cannabis breeders participating in the Regenerative Seed Cooperative is rapidly
increasing.
Already signed on are Bamboos, Stock and Bean, Pacific Northwest Roots, LOS Gardens, Dragonfly
Earth Medicine, Ital Foundation, Bob Hemp Hill's Cricket and Cicada, Dutch Blooms,
Heart Rock Mountain Farm's Pride of Lion, Sebring Seeds, and Mount Baker Highway, with
more being added every month.
These seeds are regulars, autoflowers, and hemp varieties.
A significant amount of the profits go to cannabis seed preservation projects available
to everyone.
Do you want to take every advantage that you can when growing in beautiful, healthy soil?
Then consider buying your seeds from the Regenerative Seed Cooperative at regenerativeseeds.com.
That's regenerativeseeds.com.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose.
And our guest this week is Jeremy Silva, founder of Build-A-Soil.
So here we are at the third set.
And so at this point, hopefully you pretty much understand where you need to go to be
able to set up your first tent.
And if you've been listening and you have a tent, hopefully you have figured out some
new techniques to kind of dial things in a little bit more.
Because we tend to have our strong parts about tents and our weak parts.
And we just need to constantly be actively learning.
This last set is going to be about things that are going to be common to many, but folks
getting into tents would probably consider them advanced techniques.
So once you've got your tent up and running and everything we've already talked to up
till now you're feeling pretty confident about, I would say you could start to consider some
of these five things that we're going to talk about.
So Jeremy, let's talk about topping right off the bat.
Because I like what you said earlier, which actually kind of shivered me timbers when
you're all like, oh, why don't you try moving the plant to flower as soon as you transplant?
And for me, I'm like, the plant, it's so small, but I want a lot of buds, right?
And you said, well, that way you know you're never going to run your plant into the light, right?
And so I am one of those people who tends to let my plant grow a little, probably longer
than I should, and then I'm dealing with it growing into light.
And so for me, the only real solution I have is I top it while it's in veg and just like
straight up, cut it down.
But this scares the hell out of just about anybody who first starts doing it.
So please go ahead and teach us topping.
Oh, that's great.
So there's two things to consider when topping.
I don't top and I don't like it, but I do use it in a couple instances.
The thing that you hit the nail on the head with is had you timed the flip to flower sooner,
you would have not needed to top, which means that we burn nutrients and light we did not
need.
So it's more to consider than just the plant shape.
Now, alternative to topping, there's other things we'll talk about where you can manipulate
the hormones in the plant to provide the shape you're looking for.
If that's the main goal of topping where I use topping is similar to you.
I've overdone it or their mom plants or whatever the case is, and I need to cut them back so
I don't overdo it.
That's not the advantageous way to top, but it's still the best way to manage your space.
Now, most people, when they consider topping, they're looking at the ultimate way to increase
yield.
I know that yield is related to the canopy and the light.
It's not related to having two tops instead of one.
The reason why two tops instead of one is more important is because your light is flat.
So all that's all that's important is filling the canopy.
If you have the ability to put a hundred plants in a small space, you'll have a full canopy.
You'll never need to top.
You can flower immediately.
If you have one plant and it's got to fill your entire canopy, you might want to top
from the beginning.
There are two methods that I typically talk about.
One is called the FIM or fuck I missed.
And that's typically when you have the very top of the plant, it's new leaf that's protruding
at the very top when it's just being made and it is a quarter inch tall.
You get in there with scissors and you barely nip it.
Sometimes you'll get three tops out of that.
The pinnacle of the FIM.
Most of the time you get two and you're removing very little plant material, a very small wound
and you're not really stunting the growth of the plant.
Alternatively, if you wait too long and you're like, Oh wow, I should have topped it.
The plant is a little too tall and you're building like this candelabra up top that
gets lopsided.
And so now you have to go down several inches or even further to the, at a crotch.
You don't want to just cut in the middle of a stock because it will decay and it could
be a wound you want to cut near the crotch of a branch and that will allow it to be a
little healthier.
So what people will do with, they'll cut the whole top of the plant off.
That's calling it topping.
And when you cut the whole plant of the top off, you're removing a lot of biomass that
took time to grow and now there will be two tops, but I would have preferred to just bend
it.
That way you get to leave all of that biomass intact and still get the benefit of the shape.
And so topping serves two purposes.
One is to increase yield by getting more branching.
And the second is to reduce excessive plant size and slow things down.
In the second category, if you have a small container, you've already burned through nutrients
that should have been there for flower.
So take all these things in consideration.
In a large container, it almost doesn't matter.
It just adds more time.
And so, you know, kind of top at will, but don't be scared.
Like if you've got a whole bunch of plants and you're sexing them, or you got a mom,
I'll bonsai it.
I'll cut entire plants down to literally one little leaf on all the branches and it'll
grow back into a full raging mom plant within three or four weeks.
So don't be scared.
In fact, learn how far you can push it.
But there may not be a reason to top depending on what your needs are.
Yeah, that's a great explanation.
And, and, and it's true.
I'm normally topping because I'm like, oh shit, I've, I've overgrown either my tent
or my hoop or whatever, because, you know, I want my plants to be, I want to maximize
my space.
Right.
But I, I tend to get greedy and then I, and then I have to top.
One of the things I really like though, is, you know, for the folks who are topping to
maximize their space, because they want to be able to get rid of that one primary cola
and instead make multiple colas.
When I first saw Scrogging, I'm like, oh, this is the solution that I was really looking
for.
And for folks who have not come across it, and I'm sure you're going to explain it better
than I am, Jeremy, but, but essentially you are going to stretch a net, um, about, uh,
you know, a third of the way up from the bottom of the tent.
And you're going to weave your plant as it's growing through this net.
And the more your plant grows, the more you're going to weave so that your plants remain
at a uniform height and they never grow up into the light.
You can bring the light down to them.
And so you've got this, you're creating this little field of big colas and it allows you
to maximize your space because you can, you can weave them into the corners and you can
weave into empty space and you've got all these colas that more or less are getting
even light.
Um, what do you think?
Was that a decent explanation?
Yeah, great explanation.
And that's the primary purpose of the, if an indoor grow, your light is fixed and flat
to increase the yield versus that light.
You'd want the flattest canopy possible from wall to wall covering your tent.
To do that.
The only terminology I would avoid using is the term weave in the sense that you don't
want to go above the screen and then through the holes in your screen because as the branches
grow, it can cause a little bit of damage.
And what I do is I pull and tuck.
So as the top branch hits the screen, instead of topping, what you'll do is you'll bend
the top branch over two inches and then as it grows through, you'll pull it back through
the screen, move it over a couple inches.
And what happens is the plant, it knows where the top of the plant is, the apical or apical
Mariston by sending the, these hormones there.
And one of them that's talked about as oxen and it's dominant there.
When you top it, all of the hormones are now redistributed to the lower branches and they
shoot up in height.
That's why people top.
Most people don't know though that to get that effect of hormonal change, all you have
to do is lower the apical Mariston below one of the other branches.
Gravity affects the oxen and we'll lower it to the bottom of the branch.
It'll curve back up on its own.
So if you bend it away from the screen, all of the lower branches are going to shoot up
on their own.
Wow.
And so it's amazing.
You can not top bend and bend and bend and the entire plant will, you'll see the top
from the middle of the, of your container all the way to the side of the tent.
But you'll also see every lateral branch reaching to the screen fully filled in.
And now if your top really gets away from you and it never bushed out, maybe because
there wasn't enough nutrients or enough light and they were kind of bean poles, topping
will speed up that process.
So if everything's healthy and growing fast, all you have to do is bend it over.
Now if, if bending over is not quite enough, you need it to like really be lowered below
the other branches so that the branches shoot up with those hormones.
What we do is called super cropping.
We will actually bend and pinch the stock in two or three locations and gently bend
it over, folded like a broken straw or a piece of cardboard so that it flops.
That will temporarily shift all the hormones to the lower branches until that top recovers
in growth and resumes its place as the main top.
If you do this every three or four days until all the lower branches are even, it will never
go back to a top plant again.
The top will now become the same as all the others.
And if you're thinking about going into scrogging, this is absolutely something that is best
taught with videos.
So it is, there are so many scrogging videos out there.
Do not hesitate to go to YouTube and just put in scrog, S C R O G, and you will find
way more than you need.
But that really is the place to learn this because it's, it's really a visual sport.
So scrog means screen of green.
It was the technology used instead of the sea of green coined by Michael Wolf Siegel.
And when you add the scrog, you're kind of mimicking this plant density without having
to have so many plants underneath it.
So it's very conducive to a three plant count, six plant count.
But now you use the screen to manage the canopy to be even across your entire growth platform.
When you research topping, you're going to find main lining and bending branches to this
perfect shape.
Although it's fun, it takes a lot of time.
And so just having more plants is the fastest way to the glory land, so to speak.
But um, plant count can be an issue.
So consider that you don't have to do any of this if you're not worried about plant
count.
Just plan a whole bunch and you'll be there faster.
So let's talk a little bit about nutrition education sources because you know, like you
can study cannabis plant nutrition joyfully the rest of your life.
Um, but what I think is important is making sure you have good sources.
And unfortunately there are several good books out there, um, from, from nutrition
for the beginner all through all the way through like, you know, advanced microbe life.
And so you can, you can read for the rest of your life.
I also happen to love the probiotic farmers alliance on Facebook.
Um, you know, in the old days that it was this like a, you know, kind of a intimate
group of eight or 10,000 folks and it's, it's blossomed to 35,000 now.
So the quality of your information, you got to make sure you're listening to the right
people.
But the probiotic farmers alliance on Facebook is also good.
Uh, Jeremy, what are some of your sources for nutrition education that you'd like to
recommend to people?
I really like to read books.
Maybe that's not everyone's favorite way.
And I think that when we, one book that changed my life was Masanobu Fukuoka, his one straw
revolution.
The reason why I think it's an important read is it's a philosophy book more than a practice
like a how to.
And one of the things you, you glean from this is every time I want to get too scientific
in understanding everything, I'm reminded of how successful he was by implementing,
being a steward of nature instead of trying to control it.
And so what I mean by that is the simplicity can create unbelievable success and it is
kind of balanced by the fact that you're going to want to learn everything and that's not
so important.
So reading books, I really like that one straw revolution is great.
And then when you look at the next topics you have to consider would be if I just read
an organic book, they'll probably talk about compost, how to make compost and compost tea
and then general organic amendments.
Those are great and they will keep you busy for a long time.
The next realm that people go down the rabbit hole on is soil testing.
Um, there's a book called the ideal soil by Michael Estera and there's another one called
the intelligent gardener by Steve Solomon.
Both of them are excellent primers on doing a soil test and finding balance.
Now what I'll say is you don't have to get this perfect, but if you did do a soil test
on a lot of potting soil that you wanted to keep, it's not that much money.
And if you can just balance the main weaknesses like excessive sodium or potassium or chloride
or maybe just knowing that a little calcium would really balance things, that can be a
dramatic game changer, especially when you're depending on that production.
Other than that, I really like just picking up old gardening books like Ruth Stout and
her no work gardening.
It'll really make you believe in thinking about how to do things that are simpler but
produce really good results.
And then we have a little bookstore at Build a Soil where we kind of put our favorite books
that we've read.
I think those sources oftentimes teach you how to critically think where oftentimes in
the garden we need to go on social media to get a specific answer that's timely right
now so that we can at least move on.
So balance those two so that you don't need so many urgent needs.
A lot of people read the Teaming with Microbes series.
There's so many good ones out there.
Yeah, I'll second the Teaming with Microbes series, the Teaming with Microbes, Teaming
with Nutrients, and then Teaming with Fungi.
Those books are where I learned my vocabulary that I kind of needed to start moving into
the other books.
Jeff Lowenfeld's the author.
He's got a good ability to simplify things for everybody but giving you real actual science,
which probably comes from him writing a gardening column for 45 years.
But I will second your Teaming with.
And also on the other end of the scale, once you've exhausted all of your books, there's
a great new certification I like from Elaine Ingham that she's just launched on her website.
It's a few thousand dollars to do it, but it's the kind of education that once you
have a certification, you could actually start professionally consulting for other folks.
So great.
So there are a whole bunch of excellent nutrition resources for you to consider as you get more
into it.
Let's talk a little bit about polyculture.
I think there's quite a few reasons why polyculture is fun.
And for those who are new to the word, polyculture just simply means you have more than one
plant growing in your substrate.
It's what nature is, right?
All the plants are all growing together in the same soil.
It allows them to communicate about what pests are present.
It allows them to share nutrients and microbe life beneath it.
But also when I have other plants that are in my tent, sure, I've got short grasses because
I'm really into living green mulches because it keeps the top of the soil more moist.
But really I also just love flowers, right?
The tent looks good when there are flowers in it.
It makes me happier to tend it.
What are your thoughts, Jeremy?
Man, I agree with everything you're saying.
The only caveat that I'll put on that is you mentioned Elaine Ingham recently and we've
talked about compost tea.
This was a huge topic that we went through for a long time.
I bought microscopes.
I did dissolved oxygen, altitude adjusted, temperature adjusted.
I've bought all sorts of different meters beyond that just to figure out how to make
the best compost tea following Ingham and Tim Wilson and the hue season and really going
down the rabbit hole.
What I want to share with you may be incorrect.
Maybe I'll change my mind.
I think that if you implement regenerative agriculture and companion plants and cover
crops and worms and predator mites, all of the biology will take care of itself despite
you and nature will find a way.
That's how nature has done it forever.
Almost like if you, for instance, if you've seen that movie, The Littlest Big Farm I think
it's called.
When they wanted to get owls at the property to help with a problem they had, they just
put up a birdhouse.
They didn't try to construct an owl.
If you build the home for the microbes and you put in the cover crop and you use these
practices that nature uses, you will have an unbelievable biology because we have so
much control.
We have a great environment, good inputs.
It's going to be incredible.
The only caveat to that is if you just overwater like crazy, you can go anaerobic.
There are some concerns there, but for the most part, if you use cover crop, it's going
to be significantly harder to overwater.
You can leverage these tactics to help you.
I like cover crop because they're typically types of plants that fix nitrogen and improve
soil.
There's a number of them you can research.
All of them will work.
Don't freak out about which one.
Indoors, I will say the main limiting factor is try and find stuff like you don't want
a three foot tall nitro radish that's going to grow in your container.
You want maybe clover and grasses and things like that that won't overtake.
In the worst case, if it takes anything over, just chop it down and feed it back to the
worms in your container.
It's not going to be a problem.
We have a cover crop recipe that we made at Build a Soil.
It's been really popular.
I would say that what led me to building that blend was having diversity.
We have 12 different seeds, lots of clovers and different things.
Some people use one type of seed and find great success, but I think that building a
biological community in there, diversity, diversity, diversity, and you'll have a really
good result.
Buy all your favorite seeds, grow radishes, grow lettuce.
The only caveat with food is that sometimes food requires a little more attention.
If you have no airflow and light down there, it may have rotten lettuce where beets might
do great or radishes.
Consider those things.
Your primary crop is primary.
Everything else is secondary.
Absolutely.
Jeremy, I know you and I share a love of having flowers alongside our cannabis.
I've heard you wax philosophic and poetic about flowers before.
Why don't you give us a little bit of that?
Something about it, I think that obviously there's a beauty there and there's a lot of
philosophy around just the beauty of flowers and awakening and all that.
When you look at a garden, there's this certain connective nature that we have where it's
been around forever.
I think that's why humans are gravitated towards it.
When you have an indoor oasis that's created and you walk in and peek flower, especially
in a bigger grow room where there's lights crossing over each other and the cover crops
growing out the side and it's lush and it's weaving its way down and there's pink clover
flowers and there's flax vining up the bottom and shooting flowers off next to your cannabis
flowers, it almost puts you in that Garden of Eden type feeling.
There's something that's so natural there that's so pervasive into everybody's mind.
It just gets you.
I think that's why a lot of people make fun of the cover crops is they think we just do
it because it's pretty or because it looks cool or we want to be cooler than our friends.
But realistically, when you understand that it can move water around, keep your soil tilled
and provide biology and sugars and fix nitrogen, there's a lot of reasons to do it.
It's just that the beauty of it is really half the fun.
Damn straight.
All right, let's finish on this last topic.
Once you have become, maybe not an expert in your tent grows, but you're not crashing
your tent grows and you decide that you want to expand, a lot of people like to move to
keeping a separate veg tent and bloom tent.
While it's fantastic to be able to have your tent and veg and then just simply change the
light cycle and now you're flowering in the same tent, that's fantastic for space concerns.
If you are, say for example, a patient and you need to be able to constantly be making
cannabis oil for yourself to get relief, or maybe if you're just like a serious toker
and you go through a lot of flower, a lot of people like to expand to a second tent
and have one dedicated to vegging and keeping the cultivars that you like so you don't have
to get cuts from your friends and you can really hone.
You can keep the phenos that you particularly like of seeds.
Then your other tent is just constantly blooming and that way you can harvest some plants while
other ones are earlier in bloom.
What are your thoughts on having two tents, Jeremy?
I personally think it's the only way to go.
There's a number of key reasons you hit on.
The first one is that this will take the focus off maximizing yield because if you focus
on maximizing quality, yield will come, especially cultivar dependent.
If you are only having one tent, that means that you're going to grow them to a certain size.
You're going to turn the timer down to 12 hours a day or less so that it triggers them
into flower.
If you understand that, you know that now flowering is going to take 60 to 90 days depending
on the cultivar, some sooner.
Then beyond that, you're going to have to have, after you harvest, now grow more vegging
plants, switch back.
That takes time before you ever go into flower again.
Because of that, that means your yield needs to be higher, especially if you're going through it.
The second problem is that means that you're only going to be relying on those flavors
that you're able to grow for that longer period of time.
When you're a heavy cannabis user, having different cultivars is paramount.
The reason why is that even if you have your favorite, it will dull itself on the way that
interacts with your brain.
Having a different strain will increase the effect and going back and forth between two
or three or four can dramatically improve the way that you medicate as far as being
a productive person and having different plants.
Once you start to get that dialed in, having two tents means that you can now be perpetually
flowering like you said.
What that looks like is creating your plants that are going to go in the flower room and
the flower room is ever on a 12 hour.
It's always on 12 hours, which means that no matter what, when you put a plant in there,
it's going to start to flower.
I will say that that's attractive because in your small space, you can have one finishing
flower while another one is just starting.
I will say nature does not do it that way.
The hormones that they put off next to each other and the chaos of having multiple plants
at many different age cycles while worth it is more challenging.
I've had a lot of success having containers where one's finishing flowering, the next
one moves to its spot and it's done in two more weeks.
You harvest a plant every week or two.
Here's what that leads to.
It leads to poor drying and curing because you always need that next plant because you
never had enough and you're tasting the lowers and finally waiting for it to dry and now
you got to wait two more weeks.
Just get a big harvest and then get another plant going right after that in two tents
and you will actually be able to do a slow dry.
Get it right.
Have the best medicine with constant flavor changes and instead of going perpetual, you
can actually shut your flower room down, clean it completely spick and span and you
can move veg plants in there and veg for a week if you want in their new home or you
can switch right to flower.
I think having that cycle is better than perpetual because it leads to consistent success.
Consistent success is a bigger yield because you don't have a problem cycle.
Well said.
I have never given as much thought as I just heard from you about the idea of having plants
in flower at different parts of the cycle because you're right.
I know that the plants are constantly talking to each other with terpenes and other subtle
botanical chemicals and if one thinks it's October and the other plant thinks it's September,
I can see how that could cause some biochemistry confusion.
There may be nothing there and I could be overthinking it, but one of the tenants of
successful natural farming is to try to mimic nature.
This invariably leads to the joke, well, why don't you just throw a seed in your backyard
and see what nature does with it?
I've had success doing that.
I admit we can be better stewards.
So it's not just completely being blind to that, but there's something there when you
start to observe nature and internalize that for your own benefit.
So one last thing, what do you think about, now that there are decent auto flower seeds
out there, what do you think about if you have room in your veg tent to be running an
auto flower in there as well?
If you've got your veg tent at 18.6, an auto flower is happy to grow up, mature and flower
in 18.6.
It seems to be a good use of space if folks have got it.
And I've tried it a few times and I like it.
What are your thoughts?
It's so much fun.
Flowers everywhere.
Especially when it's ancillary, it's extra.
It's not like what you have to be perfect.
Now auto flowers have come a long way.
There's so much fun to grow.
There's reasons for them.
It used to be that people villainized them because they had to be basically hemp somewhere
in its background, which supposedly would lower the potency and I understand that.
But now that we know more about hemp and we know more about plants, we know that this
could be great.
It could have more CBD right away in an auto flower and have this balance.
But the challenge I had is you can't clone them, which means you can't keep your favorite
if you find it, which leads to sadness sometimes.
Yes, it does.
But to that, you might pop a hundred seeds and they could, every single one, one of them
might be a three ounce plant.
The next one might have one gram and that frustration can lead to me saying, Hey, throw
a couple in your veg tent and have a blast because now you're not dependent upon it.
And the other consideration is where I live here in Colorado, all the hemp is going crazy,
which means you cannot grow outdoor anymore because of the pollen.
But you can grow light depth or auto flower, pull them down before any pollen is flying
and leverage the free sun.
And that's incredible.
Fantastic.
Well, Jeremy, this has been a really great episode.
This is a beautiful snapshot to get people going intense.
Thank you so much for sharing your time and vast experience with us.
Oh, you're welcome.
This is really fun.
And a lot of times in the day to day, you forget how many of these questions were really
the most important thing when we first got started.
Yeah, absolutely.
So if you want to find out more about Jeremy Silva and Build A Soil, there's two really
great places to go.
First and foremost is their website at buildasoil.com.
So that's buildasoil.com.
And then I got to tell you, Jeremy's Instagram is easily one of my favorite three in the
whole scene because he spends a lot of time doing videos from the shop with these fantastic
side by side tent grows.
I learn so much and I learn so much I'm doing wrong from these videos.
I highly recommend that you check that out, their Instagram at buildasoil.
He also let me know that coming up here in March, he's got a 12 episode series, actually
very similar to this episode you're listening to where he's going to go through all the
key aspects of building a tent.
And I believe that they're all like 30 minutes or so each.
So that's buildasoil.com and at buildasoil on Instagram.
You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the show at
shapingfire.com and on Apple iTunes, Stitcher and Google Play.
If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it if you'd leave a positive review of the
podcast wherever you download.
Your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too.
On the Shaping Fire website, you can also subscribe to the weekly newsletter for insights
into the latest cannabis news and product reviews.
On the Shaping Fire website, you will also find transcripts of today's podcast as well.
For information on me and where I'll be speaking, you can check out shangolose.com.
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire.
I've been your host, Shango Lose.
