When I was growing up, my dad often repeated to me the famous adage by Zig Ziglar that
you can get what you want by helping enough people get what they want.
The idea of course is that by helping others reach their goals, you create value, and the
creation of value attracts value for yourself from other sources.
I was having this same thought about worms the other day.
Much like humans, worms want to eat well, have a safe place to live, make out, and procreate,
and then repeat that process.
For me, to reach my goals in the garden, I also want my worms to be safe, fed, and procreate,
so I prepare a place for them in my garden that is responsive to their biological needs
and creates a living environment for them to thrive.
In turn, they keep my living soil thriving and fully functioning to support my cannabis
plants.
In the end, humans get what we want by helping the worms get what they want, and that is
a great relationship.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, cultivation, and technique efficiently and
with good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
We'll send you new podcast episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox, along
with commentary on a couple of the most important news items and videos, too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published.
Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode.
Also, we're giving away very cool prizes to folks who are signed up to receive the
newsletter.
There's nothing else you need to do to win except receive that newsletter, so go to shapingfire.com
to sign up for the newsletter and be entered into this month's and all future newsletter
prize drawings.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I am your host, Shango Lose.
Today my guest is Chandler Michalski.
Chandler is a microbe and worm farmer and a regenerative farming educator.
He is co-founder of the Michigan Compost Cup and Symposium and founder of Beer City Bokashi.
He is presently the director of living soil and farm manager at Wormies and a proud member
of the West Michigan Growers Group and the Vermin Microbiome Project.
Today we're going to talk about worms.
During the first set, we're going to talk about worm physiology and activity.
During the second set, we will describe a variety of applications and preparations for
worm castings.
And in the last set, we will get a better understanding of how to set up worm bins and
worm piles to create your own inexhaustible supply of worms.
Welcome to the show Chandler.
Hey Shango, thanks for having me.
Excellent.
Well, let's get right into it.
So, you know, let's start by identifying the attributes of worms that we find so beneficial.
I'll be first to say that I'm a novice when it comes to worm.
I haven't had a worm bin.
I just know that worms are good for my soil.
And so, you know, whenever I find them in the yard, I put them in my pots, right?
So I'm only really aware of what I think are the two main advantages of worms.
And that is they're wiggling around, aerates the soil, and then they're poop, which, you
know, more properly are known as castings.
This entire episode is pretty much about worm poop.
So let's start there.
Why are the worm castings themselves so nutritive for the soil?
Yeah, so worms are absolutely amazing.
And the castings from earthworms contain from five to 11 times the amount of available NPK
as the soil that the worms ate to produce those castings.
And so they'll eat this organic matter, either the mineral soil or the organic matter
all the leaf litter up on top, and they will just absolutely increase the amount of available
nutrients for the plants.
And they do that by grinding it up.
And there's a whole thing, the anatomy of the worm, but basically they have like this
gizzard that's full of sand and little rock particles.
And they use that and this long muscle to kind of grind up all the food scraps that
they're eating and get it into small enough particles that all of the microbes, all the
bacteria in their intestine can further break down those nutrients and deliver available
nutrients to the worm.
And then everything else is just excreted in the castings.
And so it's a waste product for the worm, but it's absolutely black gold for us.
And vermicompost or worm castings are 50% higher in organic matter than soil that has
not been wormed or has not been worked through worms.
And so basically just that higher increase in organic matter is going to increase all
the charge-holding surfaces there.
That's going to increase the cation exchange capacity.
And so basically all their nutrients that are there in the soil can then attach to the
worm castings and be right there available for the plant.
It's interesting that in cannabis cultivation, we're always talking about adding or improving
the nutrients so that they are plant available, right?
And there's a lot of both discussion and straight up arguments online about people talking about
whether or not this additive or that additive is plant available.
And it sounds like these worms are just like a plant available nutrition machine.
Listening to you describe it, I'm like, wow, I would like to take everything that's in
my container garden and just run it through worms because it sounds like whatever goes
through them comes out as an upgrade.
Exactly.
It's a huge upgrade.
So you've got to think of the microbiome of everything.
So it's really easy to just see a worm and think about it, oh, it's just a worm, or see
a tree and think about it, oh, it's just a tree.
But inside of that tree, there could be 100 different strains of fungi living in it, performing
their various roles.
And that just goes unthought of to most people.
But same thing with the worm, is they have their own microbiome.
And so they're inoculating everything that passes through it.
And so they are biology factors.
They are like wiggling communities of microbes.
And so that's how we create these plant available nutrients, is by cycling them through biology.
It's the same as fermentation, same as composting.
It's returning these fully grown proteins back to their peptides, back to their amino
acids and creating the building blocks that you can use to apply to any of these other
plants.
It's an incredible process, for sure.
That's what I was imagining when you described it.
I'm like, oh, they're kind of like doing natural farming preps inside of themselves.
100%.
So all of us who are into natural farming and KNF, worms are a clear win for us because
they are doing a similar kind of work that we do when we're making these preps.
Yeah, but they're doing it 24-7.
Right, and free.
So let's talk about what they're eating, because I believe that they eat some of the food scraps.
But I also believe that they eat, perhaps, microbes and pathogens.
So they're also cleaning the soil, yeah?
Yep.
So there are like 7,000 known species of earthworms around the world.
That being said, there's only about 16 or so that are well studied and deemed good for
composting, good for gardening, and whatnot, that are highly understood.
The rest of them, there's so many worms out there.
But yeah, it's very true.
They do eat the organic matter, but mainly they are eating the microbes that are breaking
down that organic matter.
So they're eating mainly the bacteria, but also the fungi, the nematodes, the protozoa,
everything that's breaking down these food scraps and that organic matter.
And then, yeah, they add the calcium carbonate in their gut, and all of that, all those microbes
that are doing their thing.
And so their castings are full of that calcium, but full of all the nutrients that the feedstock
contained, but now in a plant-available form that's been cycled through the biology.
It's a popular comparison in, what is it, teeming with microbes.
They compare bacteria to bags of fertilizer.
Basically you have these microbes that are mining minerals out of the soil, and then
they become bags of fertilizer.
They have all those nutrients within themselves.
And then you have these plants that are attracting that bacteria and those microbes up to the
root zone so they can drink the exudates that the plant is producing for those microbes.
And so the plant attracts the certain microbes that it needs, that contains the certain nutrients
that it needs, and then a larger trophic-level organism will come in.
So like protists and nematodes will come in, and they will eat that bacteria, and they
will take what they need and leave the rest.
So they rip open that bag of fertilizer right there in the root zone.
And so that's how it's plant-available, is because the bacteria worked through it.
And so the mineral itself, before the bacteria worked through it and then was ripped apart,
is not plant-available.
So you need that biology.
And so that's how nutrient cycling works.
And so when we feed our plants with synthetic salt-based fertilizers, it disrupts that natural
cycle that is billions of years old.
And so you get these plants that no longer need to take some of their photosynthetic
energy and put it down specifically to feed the microbes, because they say, oh, that's
a whole lot of work.
Why would I do that when the farmer can just give me the synthetic fertilizer that I can
just uptake right away?
And so you might see some results by feeding with synthetics for a while, but that does
not last long-term.
You're actually going to dumb down your plants.
You're going to dumb down your microbes.
You're going to make your plants literally reliant on that chemical fertilizer every
time because they no longer know what they need to do.
Sounds like you make lazy soil that way, and by involving the worms, choosing to not use
salts and to encourage the soil food web that is pretty much at the base of regenerative
farming, we are maximizing our substrate's ability to do all of the things that we want
it to do.
So it's in very active communication between the plant and the rhizosphere and all the
life there.
Absolutely.
Yeah, right on.
So I'm sure that we will get back more to the nutritive quality of the castings at a
further point in the show, but the second thing I'm aware of is just the worms' existence
in the soil is good because, as we all know, especially when using containers, your soil
can become compacted over time, and the squiggling around of the worms aerates it.
So will you break that out a little bit?
Yeah, absolutely.
So like I said, there are a bunch of different species of worms, and then there are four
main categories of worms.
And so they'll tunnel and burrow in different methods.
And so the red wigglers that we're common with, super common composting worms, they'll
hardly burrow into the soil at all.
They want to stay on that top six to eight inches.
They'll eat a lot of the organic matter, and they'll reproduce really quickly, produce
a lot of cocoons.
But your nightcrawlers are going to tunnel more straight down and create these air columns
that are going to stay.
So different worms will tunnel in different methods, and some of them are going to go
more straight up and down, like I said.
Some are going to go horizontally.
And so both of those are creating these channels, and they fill in those channels with organic
matter that continues to decompose.
And so some of these air channels, these tunnels that they make, will eventually fill in with
the organic matter and water and everything.
But then it creates the perfect little channel for roots to find.
And so the roots are always looking for the path of least resistance.
And so now they can find this old mine shaft, basically.
And so that's this old tunnel that's totally full of worm poop and still breaking down
organic matter and all those microbes that are associated with that.
And it's literally everything that the root needs and the perfect little channel for it.
And yeah, their burrows are incredibly important.
And so...
I've never heard a worm tunnel sound so attractive, dude.
If I was a plant root, I'd be all like, hell yeah, it's like a nutritive slip and slide
all the way to the bottom of the pot.
Perfect way of putting it.
I interrupted you.
Go ahead, Matt.
No.
So like in a healthy acre of food production soil, so your farm field, your garden, you're
going to find two to three million worms in there.
So that comes down to like 50 or between 10 and 50 worms per square foot.
And so that's a lot of worms in some healthy soil.
And they are absolutely capable of moving about 18 tons of soil every year.
So while they're looking for their food, while they're creating their tunnels, they're taking
some of those minerals from down.
And like these night crawlers are taking it from up to like 12 feet down below the surface.
And they're taking a lot of those minerals and depositing up on the top.
And then they're taking some of this leaf litter and bringing it back down.
And so like they're absolutely changing both the physical structure as well as like the
chemical composition of the soil.
And so a nice comparison is like worms are the beavers of the soil because they're the
ecological engineers.
You know, they absolutely will change ecosystems.
And in the garden, that's a wonderful thing.
They can take leaf litter that would have taken one or two years to decompose and they'll
turn it over into available nutrients in just three months.
But that being said, out in the forest, that might be not what you want.
You know, out in these native growth forests, if you introduce a lot of earthworms, which
this happens a lot in the fishing industry, people have, you know, their leftover bait.
And they'll just dump that out in the woods.
And especially up in North America, in the northern states and up in Canada, where there
used to be glaciers, there's a lot of areas that are still earthworm free.
And so a lot of people don't consider this.
But after the last ice age, there were no earthworms up in Canada and the northern United
States up in the Great Lakes region where I'm at.
They were totally wiped out from the glacial ice sheets.
And so for thousands of years after that, there's remained areas that were totally earthworm
free.
And so they weren't reintroduced until European settlers came and brought with them in their
food crops and their ornamental crops.
But also just the ballast of their ship, they'd used to fill up the bottom of their
ship with stones and soil to keep it from, you know, popping out of the water.
They need to weigh it down.
And so once they got to the New World, they'd take all that soil that was down on the bottom
and dump it out.
And so like they brought a lot of worms and a lot of worm cocoons with them and totally
re-inoculated this area.
So much so that now like you can go out into a field and you can dig and you'd find worms
there that you didn't introduce.
So it's very common to think, okay, these are native, but they were actually reintroduced
up here.
But yeah, I know that's a huge tangent there.
Yeah, but no, like I want to go down that tangent a little bit more.
So this is interesting because if the glaciers got rid of the worms in the northern part
of the continent and they were gone for thousands of years, that means when settlers came and
brought them back, that they were actually kind of invasive species at that point because
the natural local plants had grown up.
The local bio region had developed without worms.
And like you said, they're aggressive processors of like, you know, forest duff and things
like that.
I don't know about this, but I can imagine that there might be certain species in the
northern parts of the country that are suffering because of these worms that we all see as
an ally.
Exactly.
And that's a tough pill to swallow.
Everybody thinks all worms are absolutely incredible and they are in a food production
system in a non-natural environment.
But out in the native growth forest, they can actually really be invasive and detrimental
to a lot of native species.
Like I said, you know, if you didn't have worms, it would take multiple years for all
the leaves to break down.
And so like, that's how you get that beautiful layer of soil duff or that forest duff out
there is you have multiple layers of that really spongy, rich, fertile humus that's
constantly breaking down.
And there's so much life that lives in there.
And so much of the forest ecology depends on that thick mulch layer.
And if you have worms come in, they'll totally clean that out and bare soil is not good.
And so it's definitely something to consider.
You know, if you're living in the middle of the woods, maybe keep your worm bin in a bin
instead of a pile there.
And the big thing is the fishing though.
That's responsible for a lot of the spread.
But if humans don't spread them, worms will only travel about a half a mile in a hundred
years.
And so their populations generally stay where they are, but they can travel very, very easily
with the help of humans.
The fisherman idea where we're taking worms to exotic locations where they may not be
and then depositing them when we leave, that reminds me a lot of what they tell us about
firewood, right?
Don't transport firewood because it's filled with all these localized bugs.
And if you take these insects and other species that live in firewood and move them, you could
actually be destroying ecosystems.
And when I first heard that, that kind of blew me away because it's not very intuitive
at first to me.
And neither is this bit about worms because in my head, worms are everywhere, right?
But clearly I'm wrong.
For sure.
And so like there's still areas, like we were saying, up here that are earthworm free, but
down in the southern half of the continent, there are still some native worms.
And like I said, you'll find two to three million worms in a healthy acre of food production
soil.
But out in the woods, you might only find like 50,000 in an acre.
And so there's definitely still worms out there, but nothing like you'd find in a garden.
Right on.
So let's talk a little bit about species.
And we don't need to go through a lot of species, but you've mentioned two already.
You've mentioned earthworms and then the red wigglers.
And we're going to talk more about setting up worm bins in set three.
But for right now, I want to kind of focus to this question where if we are talking about
adding worms to our containers and beds, do we want to go for a particular species or
maybe two species?
Because I'm sure that after this, there's going to be a lot of people who are going
to want to put a handful in their pots or whatever.
What should we be getting?
For sure.
And I just want to touch on this.
This is super common misunderstanding.
People think earthworms are like a kind of species and red wigglers are a different thing.
But like earthworms are the broad category.
Red-wigglers are one of the worms that are earthworms.
You have red wigglers, you have night crawlers, leafworms, brown litter worms, all sorts of
jumpers.
You've got super reds, African night crawlers, European night crawlers, Indian blue worms.
Dude, they sound like cannabis cultivars.
For real, man.
Got the strain name.
But absolutely.
But the most common around here are absolutely the red wigglers, which will stay on the top
6 to 8 inches, like we said, as well as the European night crawlers, which will dive down
a little bit deeper and create those oxygen channels and allow the aeration and all that
good stuff.
But those are the ones that we personally use at Wormies.
But there are a ton of other species that are quote unquote native there.
They're not truly native, but they've been there for who knows how long.
They were there well before we moved to the property.
That's the benefit of us having our compost piles directly on the ground instead of up
in these raised systems.
You let everybody come and go as they please.
That's how you get maximum diversity instead of up in an isolated stainless steel table
or whatever.
For the common gardener, you're going to want to look for some red wigglers and probably
some European night crawlers.
Since we don't really want to transport worms around, should we be trying to buy from other
folks locally?
Supporting your local economy is great.
That is my intention.
But also at the same time, I know they sell a lot of different varieties on Amazon.
And other online places, not to pick out Amazon.
But the point is that you can order them online.
Should we be avoiding buying them online at all costs?
Or are we probably generally safe to buy them online?
Because the ones that are sold online are so common that if you're on a farm, they're
probably there already.
Right.
I don't know.
It kind of goes a couple ways.
You want to support local as much as possible.
But a lot of this stuff, when we're talking about composting and IMO, indigenous microorganisms,
it makes all the sense in the world to buy your worms, one, from a local business to
support local and all that stuff.
But two, to get those IMOs.
And so the worm pile that's in direct contact with the soil like we do at Wormies, it's
so much more than just worm castings and all the biology in the worm's gut.
It's literally the indigenous microorganisms culturing in that pile, too.
It makes so much more sense for your garden to have.
Because you're not just getting a handful of worms when you order worms.
There's going to be some substrate mixed in.
And so all the microbes that are still in that substrate are really going to add some
benefit to your garden.
But it depends on where you're putting them, too.
If this is only going to stay in your indoor grow bin, in your indoor worm bin, it probably
doesn't matter as much.
But you always want to be cautious about the invasive species thing.
And like I said, the main issue is doing this out in native old-growth forests and stuff
like that.
But if you're in your city, if you're in your garden plot, they're not going to be terribly
invasive.
They're going to do a lot of good work for you that will benefit you.
That whole idea of localized IMO brought this idea to my head about potentially wildcrafting
worms.
I remember right before the pandemic, I was at Indoexpo in Denver.
I saw Brian Waxman speak.
He's got this great video that he shows on his Living Soil Talks where he takes half
of an avocado.
I think everybody calls it avocado tech now.
But he'll take half of an avocado and he puts it at the top of his container.
And then he lifts off the avocado after some amount of time.
And there's like a gazillion worms.
All the worms in the container seem to have sensed the avocado fat.
And they all come to it.
And his argument about it is that it's really good for feeding your worms, but also it brings
them all in proximity so that they can mate.
So that's an attractant for worms.
Is there any kind of application of that or something else that folks might do to wildcraft
your local worms that are going to have the local IMO in their gut?
Because where I live on Vashon Island, I could totally see going to the edge of my property
where it's not all trampled and everything.
And take two avocados and cut them in half and put four halves in a circle.
Maybe dig away the top layer a little bit and collect a bunch and either start my bin
or just collect them and put them in my containers.
A, is that an environmentally sound practice as long as I'm on my own farm?
And B, does that work?
And C, what attractant would you use?
Yeah, so I'll try to remember all those.
Sorry.
All good.
Yeah, avocado tech's great.
It'll definitely attract a bunch of worms.
That being said, it's a great use for old avocados that are past prime eating.
But I don't really like the idea of buying an avocado from Mexico or whatever and having
that huge carbon footprint just to feed to the worm and all that stuff on there.
There's a ton of other stuff that we can use that's going to have actually already your
local IMO that you can use to bait those worms instead of microbes from Mexico or whatever.
Can you give me two examples?
Yeah, for sure.
So up here, it's super, super easy to grow melons and squash, all sorts of gourds.
And so that's huge.
You get one squash plant and there's 20 plus gourds on there.
They store super well, so you can have feedstock for eight months plus if you store it right.
But also that huge surface area.
So you slice up a pumpkin and you put it on top of the soil and all these worms are going
to come up there, very similar to the avocado.
But also you can just use wet cardboard and any leaves from your property.
Toss some leaves under some wet cardboard, set that flat, and after a couple of days,
if there's worms in your yard, they're going to be there.
And they love that corrugated board, all those little perforations.
Oh, wait, they're eating it?
They love hanging out in the ridges.
It's crazy.
You can peel back one of the layers and it's just full of worms and cocoons and stuff.
They really like cardboard.
It's weird.
So yeah, anything that's going to be moist and flat.
And they like some pressure against the soil.
They like to come up to the top, but you've got to remember, worms don't like the sun.
They're incredibly photosensitive.
And so if you can cover your soil with something firm like that, that allows them to come up
to the top and not be exposed to the elements, they're really going to like that.
But yeah, the idea with the avocado tech is wonderful.
You could use pumpkins, cardboard, melons, anything like that.
You're basically attracting them.
And worms are hermaphroditic, and so they contain both the sperm and the eggs and that
little slimy stuff that's on them.
And so basically, when you have them in a huge worm pile all eating that avocado, they're
also having like a giant orgy.
And so they're going to leave behind a ton of cocoons.
And in each one of those cocoons are anywhere from like one to 20 worms.
And so you have like these huge population booms, huge baby booms after you do something
like the avocado tech, or you attract them all up to a common area and you feed them.
But also, it's popular to kind of amend that avocado lightly with some amendments.
So then they're taking those amendments as well as all the fat and all the good stuff
in the avocado.
And then when they go back and they disperse throughout the soil, then they're pooping
out all that good stuff all throughout the resosphere.
And so it's a great way to amend your soil without tilling it in.
Yeah, for sure.
When you talked about the worms' ability to transport nutrients, I was thinking, oh, in
my head it was always just the mycelial networks, right?
But no, this is an entirely different and I would probably say more mechanical way when
they're eating the food scraps and then they grab some of the amendment and then they bust
out and go to another neighborhood in the container.
They're taking all of that with them.
Any idea how much, like I'm imagining taking a melon or a squash like you suggested and
adding a little bit of amendment to it.
Do we want to just add the amount as if we were adding salt to eat it, just a little
bit?
Or can we actually add it pretty heavily?
So I definitely go light on any amendments.
And honestly, if your soil's thriving, you might not even need it.
It's always kind of tough blindly amending things without looking at the soil test.
But if you just add a little bit of something, a lot of times just some trace minerals or
something like that is all you need.
But yeah, I usually go light on any dry amendments.
Are there any other...
Oh, go ahead, sorry.
I mainly just rely on heavy mulching and that's going to supply the fertility that
I need in the soil.
For folks like me who are not going to be able to not do this because it's such a cool
idea, are there any amendments, like specifically dry amendments that we should not use because
worms do not like them?
Certainly nothing significant or else it would drop right in your head.
That straight comes to mind.
But yeah, it's something to consider.
You don't want something incredibly abrasive.
They don't like rubbing against diatomaceous earth, which I mean...
Right, that's good.
Excellent point.
But even like an insect frass might have that harsh tiny little pieces that can cut them
up.
So if you do add some dry amendments, just go ahead and make a guacamole out of it.
Mix it in.
Don't just have the dry amendments there.
I wouldn't worry too much about that.
That guacamole idea is good.
Even if you're using melon or squash, make that slurry.
For sure.
And I also want to say, if you're using a melon, don't use the whole entire fleshy part
of it.
Use mainly the rind.
If you add too much of that fruitiness, you're going to attract some fruit flies and excess
juice and stuff like that.
So you can use some of the red melon part, but mainly stick to using the rind.
That's a perfect use for your leftover melon rinds.
Right on.
That's a good example.
All right.
So let's talk more about putting them in the container.
So when I am in the garden and I see a worm that's at the surface just kind of cruising
around the garden, I generally pick them up and I toss them in one of the pots.
So if I'm doing that, I recognize that over time they will procreate and there'll be more
of them and that's great.
But when a lot of people are first starting their pots, we all know how aggressive people
want to be with their first year pots, trying to make them be wildly biologically active
in the short summer run.
It's unreasonable.
I found that my pots really got good after three years, but that first year everybody's
trying to turn their often bagged soil into this super living soil in one run.
And so I'm sure that there are other people who have been tempted like I have to either
get worms from a friend or buy them online or wild craft them, which I actually hadn't
considered until today.
But the point is to get a bunch and put like a whole handful in one container.
Can there be too many worms per pot?
Yeah.
So they're really good at controlling their population and they're not going to continue
to reproduce if there's not enough food for them.
But that being said, if we're trying to do no till in a 30 gallon pot or a smallish pot
like that, you don't want to toss in handfuls of worms.
You want to stick to maybe five, 10 worms at first and they'll absolutely aerate it
and start to reproduce and control their numbers there.
But the problem is with no till long term is it just turns into a bed full of castings.
And so if you don't have enough long term aeration sources, everything in there is just
going to turn into worm castings.
Are we saying that's good or are we saying that's bad?
That's not super beneficial.
It makes the soil out of balance.
Exactly.
And it'll lead to compaction over time and stuff like that.
You really need that aeration long term in these raised beds.
And so something that I do is I add some aeration sources in between and just kind of let it
settle in.
And so we sell what we call vermi mulch at Wormy's and it's our thicker grade of the
compost.
And so there's a ton of tiny little wood chips and like your egg shells and there's a ton
of cocoons in there and worms and so many rove beetles, beneficial mites and predators
and shredders of all sorts.
But all those wood chips are going to settle down into the soil.
And then I'll add some crushed lava rock or pumice every now and then and just let
that continue to settle in instead of it only being worm castings and then only feeding
it organic matter on top that's going to turn into worm castings as well.
So something to consider.
Yeah, it sounds like it's very important to consider, especially if you are a long term
food or cannabis cultivator and you're doing no-till minded stuff.
The idea of there being potentially too much density of worm castings never occurred to
me.
And so in addition to my regular soil amendments, the idea of adding small wood fragmentations
and things like that to the top and just letting it settle in sounds like a great idea.
Certainly that's going to be awesome for your lower levels of the food web as well because
there's going to be all these little surface areas for those little microbe guys.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
All right.
So we're only going to be adding five or 10 for a 30 gallon pot and then let them do their
thing.
Do I need to also feed them in that?
I understand that they won't have more babies if there's not enough food sources, but could
the 10 eat everything in the pot and then crash in it?
Where I should be thinking about putting food scraps on the surface of the container as
well.
I mean, maybe it's putting in some scraps and then covering it with compost so it's
not open to the air.
The general idea of the question is, should I be thinking about feeding them in my container
at all?
Yeah.
So I don't know if you're a fan of cover cropping or mulching adding.
Yeah, for sure.
Yeah.
So that's all I do.
I don't add any food scraps necessarily, but always chopping and dropping a ton of cover
crops and pruning any of the ganja leaves, tossing them in the soil and they're taken
care of within a week.
They're usually gone.
And so there's a lot of hungry things in there for sure.
The pill bugs will take care of some leaves for sure.
So yeah, always feeding the soil with that mulch layer, keeping it protected and letting
the worms come up to the top to eat that stuff.
And so like we talked about earlier, we don't want a whole lot of exposed soil.
We don't want the worms to ever see or grow late necessarily.
They like to stay in the moist, dark environment with the rest of the microbes.
So let's say that I fill a container with sifted soil and I know there's no worms in
it because I just sifted every square centimeter of the soil.
Then mid-season I see worms in the pot.
I understand intellectually that that happened because there were worm cocoons in the soil,
but is there any way to know how dense soil is with cocoons already when you use it?
Or do you just have to let it ride?
Because I don't think I've ever even seen one.
I don't even know what one looks like.
Yeah.
So once you know what they look like, they're a lot easier to spot.
They're little orange, goldish, little orbs.
Probably a millimeter or so.
But you can take up a scoop of pretty much any handful of our compost piles at Wormies
and you're going to find at least one cocoon in there.
So once you get the eye for it, you'll be able to see them.
But that being said, it's still way easier to let that go through your sifter unnoticed.
But I honestly don't know.
I don't worry too much about the population of worms in the soil.
I just know that there's some in there and I keep them fed with the organic matter and
I add that aeration source to prevent it from all turning into worm castings over time.
But yeah, I try not to worry about it too much.
All right.
So we've spoke earlier about how we don't want our worm bins to get too hot, which we'll
address again in third set.
But thinking about the containers, I intentionally am trying to have my plants and the containers
warm so that the microbes are happy and aggressively living, shall I say.
And then the plants, of course, I want them to be transpiring and aggressively living
as well.
But then there's worms, right?
So how much risk am I looking at having my containers out in full summer sunshine?
Will the pot naturally keep the worms cool enough that they won't melt?
Or do I need to be aware of that?
No, it's a very important thing to consider.
And I don't like using black pots outside.
I like the tan fabric pots.
Keeps the soil a lot cooler.
But really, really focusing on that thick mulch layer is going to do a lot to protect all
your microbes and all your macroinvertebrates and worms and whatnot.
But yeah, you definitely don't want them to cook in there.
And so if you have that pot right on the ground, or if there's any holes in there or whatever,
worms are really smart.
And so you'll see if you were to put worms in a thermophilic hot compost pile, they're
not going to go right to the core.
They're not going to go to the hot part.
They're going to get the hell out of the way.
They know how to get away from the heat.
So if there's another option for them to get out, and that might just be them going up
to the top and hanging out underneath that moist mulch, or all the way down to the bottom
where it's still moist.
They're going to find something around it.
But yeah, you definitely don't just want a black pot out in the open sun with no mulch,
no shade or anything like that.
Yeah, we don't want them to melt.
Yeah, right on.
You've always got to be mindful of what the soil wants and think, how are they going to
prefer this?
And so that was a big thing, realizing that I was more of a microbe farmer than a worm
farmer.
I'm creating the perfect environments for these microbes to thrive.
And from that, the worms follow and all the good stuff follows.
But you need the environment that's conducive for the microbes.
And that's what starts it all.
Let's finish this set with what I'm guessing is a myth, but I've been told this since childhood,
and I'm probably not the only one, so we might as well address it.
If we have a worm and we cut it in half, do we then have two worms?
And is there any reason we should be doing that?
No, definitely do not do that.
Worms are living.
They're sentient.
They can feel that.
And no, they don't regenerate into two completely different worms.
It is true that if you cut it at a certain point, and somebody's actually figured this
out, there's a number of segments that you can go to or whatever, and then that tail
will regenerate.
And one worm will be fine, but the other part will die off or whatever.
But no, you're not going to regenerate two worms.
But if one does get cut, there is a good chance that it'll be fine.
Right on.
So if one gets cut, toss it back in the soil, but don't be doing it of your own accord.
We are dispelling that myth right here and now.
For sure.
Right on.
That's one of the biggest predators of worms is humans.
Or maybe not predators, but with rototilling and stuff.
And we come in and we just slice these worms up, and then if you're using salts, you're
literally tossing salt on the wound.
Oh, geez.
And it's terrible what we're doing.
Don't do that.
Don't do that.
All right.
So we're going to take a short break and be right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire, and my guest today is regenerative farming educator,
Chandler Michelsky.
Now, without these advertisers, Shaping Fire would not happen.
So please support them and let them know you heard them on Shaping Fire.
A fully functioning greenhouse grows extraordinary cannabis flowers that have exceptional bag
appeal, great terpene profiles, and exceptional yield.
But as we have discussed many times on Shaping Fire, a greenhouse is only as good as the
environment you create for the plants inside.
Biotherm has been on the forefront of developing and installing highly efficient greenhouse
solutions since 1980.
Whether new construction, major upgrades, or a retrofit, Biotherm's cultivation climate
solutions are tailored to each grower's specifications.
They even have root zone heating mats that attach to a home hot water heater for growing
areas 500 square feet or smaller.
The atmosphere of the growing environment directly affects the health and productivity
of your crop.
Biotherm offers heating, cooling, dehumidification, and CO2 enrichment to optimize the air your
plants breathe and optimize plant growth by enhancing the elements within the cultivation
space.
Biotherm's dissolved oxygen irrigation solutions will improve the vitality of your water and
the efficiency of your hydro delivery system.
When you implement Biotherm's systemic innovation, you'll experience increased yields, improved
plant vigor, and increased resistance to disease and pests.
Biotherm offers free phone and email support for everything they sell and will help you
troubleshoot and diagnose issues to get your equipment back online.
The explosion of greenhouse cultivation has crowded the field with novice consultants
selling unproven gadgets.
When you choose Biotherm to regulate your greenhouse environment, you know you're relying
on their over 40 years of experience designing, installing, and supporting mission-critical
greenhouse technology.
Your plants deserve nothing less than Biotherm.
Visit BiothermSolutions.com today to learn more and request a quote.
Once you've discovered the benefits of using cannabis, it's a very small step to start
making your own edibles, gummies, lotions, tinctures, and concentrated oils at home.
Magical Butter has been helping cannabis consumers become self-sufficient for over a decade.
With the easy-to-use Magical Butter countertop botanical extractor, you can create high-quality
cannabis products to your exact specifications at a fraction of the cost of store-bought
edibles.
I talk a lot on this show about the importance of homegrowing so you don't have to rely
on others to feel healthy.
The Magical Butter machine can empower your personal health by putting you in control
of how you use cannabis in your daily life.
I've been making my own butters and oils on the stove for years and I much prefer the
ease of using the Magical Butter machine.
I just set it and walk away.
With the simple touch of a button, the Magical Butter machine grinds, heats, stirs, and steeps
your herbal extract all at the correct time interval and temperature for the perfect infusion
every time.
As a result, you achieve your desired infusion easily, safely, and consistently.
Check out the Magical Butter Instagram to see the machine in action.
And don't feel like you have to go it alone.
There is a huge community on Facebook called Magical Butter Users United sharing recipes
and best practices so you can learn at your own pace from others who are already doing
it successfully.
Now is the time to get your own Magical Butter machine and save money while enjoying cannabis.
Use the discount code SHAPINGFIRE, one word, no caps, to get 10% off.
Visit MagicalButter.com today.
There is finally a revolutionary replacement for peat moss that provides better benefits
while being a sustainable choice.
Pit moss sounds and acts like peat moss, but instead of being mined from fragile ecosystems,
is actually made from upcycled organic paper and cardboard headed for landfills.
Pit moss is excellent at retaining water in your substrate and creating air pockets and
tiny living environments for microbes.
Pit moss instantly increases aeration, nutrient absorption, and water conservation too.
Carefully and locally sourced, pit moss is the result of decades-long research into the
use of recycled paper fibers.
Pit moss is lightweight and easy to use, and pit moss is inert so it won't change your
pH.
Available in a range of preparations including a nutrient-enhanced blend and an organic soil
conditioner with no added nutrients.
Pit moss is also available as an animal bedding for horses, chickens, and small animals.
You can save 15% with the discount code SHAPINGFIRE, one word, no caps, when shopping on pitmoss.com.
So go to pitmoss.com now to learn more.
That's P-I-T-T-M-O-S-S dot com.
Growing healthier, stronger, more sustainable plants.
Pit Moss.
Welcome back, you are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose, and my guest today is regenerative farming educator, Chandler
Moshalsky.
So before the break, we were talking all about worms, the good they do, and why we love them.
And no doubt, while their very existence in our garden is good for pretty much everybody
involved, we do tend to focus on their castings because of the nutrition value.
But once you have castings, what's the best thing to do with them?
Because they kind of seem like a panacea, you can use them for everything.
And I'm here to tell you the answer is yes.
So we're going to go through some of the ways that Chandler uses them in his garden, and
maybe some of them will be attractive to you, dear listener.
All right, so let's start with the basics.
So the first way that many people get into worm castings is simply by adding it to their
soil recipe.
Whatever they're going to start out their pots with, they will have some variable amount
of it that is locally purchased or gifted worm castings.
So will you speak to that, give us an idea of maybe how we should choose our castings
and then how much to put in the soil?
Yeah, so that's what got me into this whole world, is me starting to try to mix my own
soil.
I found Subcool's Super Soil recipe, and reading the forums, realized that the compost was
the most important part.
And that's why you can have the same recipe all over the country, but everybody's going
to have different results because they're all using different compost.
So it sent me down the rabbit hole of, okay, well, what's the best compost?
And I quickly found out that worms produce the best compost, or some of the best compost.
It's pretty easy to do it at home in a home worm bin.
So I started doing that, and I realized pretty quickly that I was eating garbage, and I couldn't
put anything beneficial into my worm bin.
You yourself were eating garbage.
Yeah, I was a busy college student.
So you couldn't put your food scraps in because the worms are like, screw you, I don't want
chips.
Yeah, I mean, just not enough fruits and veggies, not enough cooking for myself.
And so that was a big red flag.
It's like, holy shit, that's not how we should be doing things.
I need to start taking better care of myself and cooking at home more.
So I quickly started to accumulate more fruit and veggie scraps, and feeding my worms really,
really good stuff, and getting the best compost possible.
And so that was really fast.
Like I said, I was just starting to learn how to mix my own soil, how to grow my own
ganja, and came into this world of worm castings and everything.
And then...
Hold on, before you move on, I think we need to recognize for a second there how kind of
naturally romantic that is, that you get into building soil to grow cannabis, and then the
worms support you in eating a healthier diet because you want to feed them a better diet.
That's better support for eating healthy than even my friends give me, because I'm
motivated to help the worms because I want them to help me with the ganja.
I just think that that is a beautiful example about how regenerative farming really closes
circles and offers unexpected positive results.
Oh, absolutely, man.
Absolutely.
It's a lifestyle for sure.
Super grateful to have found it.
So how much should we put into our soil recipes?
Yeah, so we shoot for 20%.
You want like 15% to 20%.
There's been studies on it that show that that amount greatly improves yield and all
that good stuff, decreases pest and pathogen pressure.
But anything over 20%, and it might be kind of a waste of money.
If you really overdo it, then you can run into the compaction problems and all that
stuff like we were talking about.
So yeah, 15% to 20% if you're mixing your own soil, but then also really top dressing
it throughout the cycle.
So I'll just literally take a handful.
I'm not big on measuring or anything.
Spread that around the base of each plant and water it in.
And simple as that.
Maybe every other week or so, if you ever notice, plants could use a little boost or
something, maybe give them that.
But I really don't stick to any strict cycles or anything like that.
But I know pretty much if I ever see a problem, I'll just top dress some castings and then
brew a compost tea.
And the problems are resolved pretty quickly.
When you are top dressing worm castings, do you normally put down the worm castings and
then either add an extra layer of soil or compost or scratch the surface and work it
in?
So many of the top dressed amendments, you kind of need to keep them moist for them to
break down and do their job.
Is that also true with worm castings?
I can't imagine that a dry worm casting is as effective as a moist one.
Yeah, great point.
So yeah, I'll scratch it in a little bit.
But then the watering in after you spread it pretty thin will take a lot of that and
pull it down into the soil.
So let's assume you have a new pot, right?
And you are using your 20% castings.
Would you expect that to last the entire cycle?
Or would you still perhaps start top dressing more when you start flower cycle or something?
Yeah, so I usually at least do another top dress right as I flip.
It also depends on how much you have and whatnot.
Generally, like I said, I don't stick to schedules, but I'll do at least one top dress during
veg and then a nice big top dress and chop and drop when I flower.
Chop and drop is kind of what I use to cover up the castings instead of additional soil
or compost.
I'll lay down the castings, kind of scratch it in, water it in, and then chop and drop
all my cover crop and prune some leaves and then cover that up and keep it moist and protected.
So the other time that it's very popular to top dress is actually between cycles.
Whether you're indoors or if it's the off season, we're all generally adding amendments
to the soil preparing for the next cycle.
If you are outdoors, it's a little less obvious as it is with indoors when to amend between
cycles.
Let's say that it is October and everything is cut and hung and I'm looking at all the
stalks that are coming out of my containers.
Would you be more likely to amend then and let it sit over the winter season that way?
Or would you actually wait and amend in April or May in the spring after the winter?
I do it in the fall.
You always want to be building up that fertility and it's super important, especially for getting
snow in the winter, to really build a thick, thick mulch layer to protect everything.
And sow some cover crop seeds underneath it.
You'll actually have some cold tolerant plants, you'll have living plants underneath that
thick mulch layer and they're still pumping exudates into the soil and keeping everything
alive all winter long.
And if you don't have that, if you have bare soil, it's all going to freeze.
Everything's going to suffer.
And then you're going to have to re-inoculate and kind of start over in the springtime.
So it's super important.
We've got to be mulching all year round, but putting our beds to sleep properly in the
wintertime is very important.
Right on.
That's never come up on the show before.
I always just considered that during the winter, the containers got so cold that all the microphones,
all the microbes, sisted up and essentially went into hibernation.
But this idea that there's still life happening in the container, and so we want to make sure
we have a good mulch layer to kind of give it a winter blanket.
And then castings and other nutritive amendments just to help keep the logs burning over the
winter.
That's a really interesting idea that I hadn't really engaged with before.
No, I used to definitely subscribe to that too.
I figured that everything sisted up, went dormant for the winter, and a lot of it would
come back.
But putting cover crop in my pots and a thick mulch layer.
I've got a post on my Instagram actually, some hairy vetch just thriving in early February.
That made me realize, okay, so there is still some sunlight getting through that mulch.
It's still photosynthesizing.
It's got to still be pumping some carbon into the soil, some exudates.
I don't know.
I think for the most part, things are quite slowed down and dormant.
But really protecting it and doing all that stuff will just make everything thrive in
the spring when it does thaw out and come back to life.
That hairy vetch that was doing its thing all winter long, it was the second.
It started going to flower as soon as spring came.
It attracted so many pollinators and your beneficial predators and all that stuff.
It's a beautiful thing.
All right, so cool.
Let's go to our next application.
We've already talked about as a soil amendment in your initial container recipe.
Then we talked about top amending both during the cycle and during the off-season.
Let's talk about adding it to compost tea.
There's a lot of different compost teas, but let's assume for the moment we're talking
about an aerated tea made in one of the popular ways.
If we want to incorporate castings, do we want to add it to the brewer or is it something
we add to it after we've pulled from the brewer?
I like to use a compost tea bag.
Put all the compost inside of that mesh bag.
Then I'll put that inside of the brewer and agitate it, really massage it, get all those
microbes suspended and in the water.
Then I'll brew it depending on the recipe and whatnot.
I'm definitely still experimenting with compost teas.
It's tough to know without looking under the scope.
Basically, I've never brewed a compost tea using good compost that has had detrimental
results.
I think the microscope stuff is really important.
If you have it and you have time to get into it, there's a lot to learn from that.
Brewing a compost tea, sticking to the rules, sticking to your intuition, you're going to
have really good stuff if you're using good compost.
I got distracted from the question there.
I'll take it to the next part of the question then.
We were talking about aerated compost teas and you said, okay, we're going to put it
in a bag so that the compost is not actually in the brewer causing a mess.
I'm guessing then that if you're using a compost extract, so we're not talking about an aerated
preparation, we're just talking about like we make tea, like tea to drink.
You've got water and then you put a bag of stuff in it and it just soaks the tea out.
Steep it.
I'm pretty new to that kind of a compost extract, but I'm finding that I really like it because
it's so easy.
So easy.
Yeah.
And so would it be simply you've got your bag of compost in the bucket and then next
to it you're going to have a bag of castings or if you've got a big enough bag, you can
put them both in the same thing.
The moral of the story is that it works the same.
Yeah.
So I only use castings in a compost tea pretty much.
Yeah, I don't use a separate compost source.
Sometimes I'll add in some leaf litter from the forest, but when I say compost tea, I'm
pretty much talking just a casting tea.
Do you think it's complete?
Like do you really think that there's not really anything added by adding compost from
your compost pile that it's all there with the worms?
You're clearly think way too much about this stuff.
There's got to be a reason why you don't bother.
So I use the vermi mulch more than the castings.
And so this is, you know, it's a something local to wormies and a lot of people aren't
familiar with it, but it's just the coarser sifting.
And so it's still got all the worm castings, but it's got all the wood chips and everything
that we're talking about.
And so like our worm rows are fed thermophilic compost.
So like it's already gone through the hot composting process.
And then so you have all that diversity and then the worms are working through it.
And then we add all these mushroom blocks and Bokashi compost and fermented tea and
fruit from kombucha places.
And so like we re-inoculate the hot compost with as much diversity as possible and let
the worms work through it for like 10 months.
And so yeah.
So you're not using just like regular pedestrian castings.
You're using like Olympic level castings.
That's a great thing to consider.
And that's something that is easy to forget when we're talking about this stuff.
It's like not everybody has access to wormies or whatever.
And we're talking about maybe just using worm castings from your worm bin.
And so like, yeah, if that's the case, you might want to go ahead and add some compost
from your outdoor source as well and just maximize that diversity.
But yeah, the vermi mulch from wormies is complete for sure.
Right on.
You know, a lot of people, more people than we probably even think about who are growing
in urban situations, the castings they're using, they're just like straight up buying
online.
So they're stripped down like nutritive, but kind of like boring and maybe not, well, clearly
not as complex as what you're using.
For those people, I think that it would make sense to back up their castings with a biologically
active mulch as well.
Absolutely.
That's a great point.
All right.
Thank you.
All right, cool.
So let's talk about the ways to apply this.
So like most nutrition, I would think that it's beneficial to both pour the compost tea
directly into the container or bed, but then also there is a foliar option.
Is it true that really we can do both?
Yeah, for sure.
And so the difference between the tea and the extract is you're aerating the tea and
you're adding a food source for those microbes to proliferate and expand.
But in the extract, you're just extracting what's available in the compost and putting
it into a solution.
So you're not actually giving it an air source and a food source to increase its populations,
but you're just taking the microbes that are there, putting it in a solution, and then
you can water your plants with that or you can spray your plants with that.
But one of the benefits of a compost tea is the foliar application.
So like the glomulin, the glue-like substance that a lot of these bacteria produce, is going
to make it a whole lot stickier.
And so like when you spray an actively aerated compost tea, it's going to have more of that
glomulin, more of that stickiness to it.
And so like that's going to stick to your leaves longer than a compost extract would.
But if you only have time for a compost extract, if you don't want to clean your brewer or
whatever, it's so much easier.
But so you want to use maybe a couple cups for a couple gallons in your compost tea,
but in your extract, you're going to want to use a whole lot more compost than you would
in a tea.
And so like you want to really fill up your mesh bag or whatever and massage that around.
Use more compost in an extract than you would in a tea.
So when using foliar, I got to admit that I've never done a castings foliar because
I'm hesitant because I know that it's air quotes poop.
And we normally want to keep manure off of the tops of the plants because of things like
E. coli and stuff.
Do we need to be concerned about spraying worm waste on the tops of the plants?
Yeah.
So you get into this tough area of generalizing all castings, and we know that's not true.
They are totally different from different sources and different parts of the country,
different feedstocks, different environments and stuff.
It's not the same.
It could be comparing like apples and oranges, honestly.
And so if you have a compost that isn't complete and they were using some animal manure and
stuff like that, you're going to maybe run into more problems than compost that you fully
trust.
But I have never run into any issues with using a good compost and spraying it directly
on the leaves.
But that being said, I don't spray any compost teas or manures or anything in flower at all.
It's all during veg.
So it sounds like if you're going to foliar, you don't want to take your castings right
out of your bin and use them.
You want to make sure you take them out of the bin and then compost them so they become
a finished, balanced compost product.
Yeah, that's not a bad idea.
And also the aging process is really important.
We think, okay, all the food scraps are gone.
This compost is done.
Let's use it.
But if you actually let that compost sit there for six months and just keep it moist, you
let it cure up and you let all those mesophilic microbes work through it.
And even though you can't necessarily see a whole lot of change, they're doing their
thing and they're continuing to cure it up into a better product.
This is vintage worm compost.
This is age.
Age.
Free range worms.
That's awesome.
So another issue with foliar with amendments is sometimes the nozzles get clogged up.
So if we are going to run a casting tee, we probably should run it through some filters
to get out any loose bits, right?
So it doesn't clog up the sprayer.
Yep, definitely.
What do you recommend to put it through?
More than cheesecloth or is that like, you know, eight thick cheesecloth going to do
it?
Yeah, some cheesecloth folded over itself is pretty good.
But honestly, the compost tea bags that you brew right in are usually good enough.
But it's really important to clean out both your brewer and your sprayer and everything
right after to prevent biofilm from accumulating and drying there because it's a whole lot
harder to clean once it's dry and all those nooks and crannies than if you were to just
pump some water and maybe some Dr. Bronner's through it right away or whatnot.
Are the target organisms that we're looking to get out of the casting's tee, are they
going to be susceptible to damage from high pressure foliar sprayers?
I'm just learning about this, so I don't know a ton about it, but there's certainly
a higher end foliar sprayer that can really wreak havoc on microbes if it's used.
So I think you probably know what I'm talking about more than I do.
Yeah, exactly.
Definitely something to look into.
If you ever buy like a pack of nematodes, they'll say it's like don't exceed 72 PSI
and make sure that your nozzle's over like .8 millimeters in diameter or something like
that.
But I don't know, I talked to the bug lady, Suzanne Wainwright-Evans, and she's like,
oh yeah, it's definitely not that strict.
You have some more leeway there, but you definitely don't want crazy high pressurization and you
don't want micronization or whatever because it'll just shred up the nematodes and some
of the larger stuff.
The bacteria will still get through, but it lowers the efficacy of what's going to
be surviving once it hits the leaf.
But yeah, we use Grow King, a garden sprayer, and I know there's other options out there.
I'm not trying to give advertisement or whatnot, but there was this gun that Luis, the owner
of Wormy's, was recommended through the Soil Food Web Academy and Dr. Elaine and stuff.
I forget the name of the gun, but there's definitely some stuff out there that has proven
to work for sure.
Right on.
I want to go back to a question that I missed.
A lot of folks who do not live rurally, they are buying their inputs at stores and stuff
because they're not able to wildcraft it.
We learn over time that, for example, you don't want to be buying compost in bags that
smells like bleach.
You want fresh amendments.
Is there anything that we should be looking for when buying bagged castings that we want
to avoid?
Are there any clear signs of spoiled castings?
Yeah, I definitely don't recommend buying castings that have been sitting on the shelf.
I know sometimes that's your only option, but at that point, it's more of a place filler
than anything.
Compost should really be a microbial inoculation more than anything.
Yes, it's going to provide some nutrients, but it's really providing the microbes that
your soil needs to take care of itself.
What's great about Wormy's is you can come get it straight from the farm, never put it
into a bag.
When we do bag it, it's usually gone within that week.
Nothing dries out.
It doesn't go dormant.
It's in breathable bags.
Highly highly recommend finding somebody that's composting around you or doing it yourself.
The stuff that you get from the grocery store that's sitting in a bag, who knows how long
it's been there.
Who knows the feedstock that they fed that stuff with.
It could have just been newspaper and cardboard.
You get a homogenous product.
It looks the same every time.
Some growers are used to it, but what benefit is that actually adding?
It's really nothing compared to living, breathing microbes from fresh compost.
I follow that.
For those of you who aren't sure where you would get it because you live in the city,
I would recommend also checking your farmer's market.
I was very happy to find that this year our farmer's markets just started back up here
on Vashon.
One of my favorite organic food purveyors, they've got castings there at the end of their
table now.
I get five pounds for ten bucks.
That's double great because they're local.
They're all imbued with our local island IMO.
I will probably buy them out for the season.
For real, man.
Sounds like you got the hook up there.
That's the thing too.
A lot of people don't necessarily advertise this.
They don't have a vermicomposting business, but there are some heady people out there
for sure that might have enough to share.
That's just the power of community and getting out there and connecting with these cool people.
There are really, really cool people, like-minded people out there, but a lot of times we're
just spread pretty far.
Bringing us together in the community and stuff is super important.
We'll talk about the compost cup later, but it's so important to network and find these
cool people out there.
Yeah, right on.
All right, so let's finish up this set with talking about natural farming ferments.
Pretty much everybody who is going to be using the castings from the show is going to be
using natural farming preps or K&F preps specifically.
I'm sure that there are some people who are thinking to themselves, will any of my preparations
hurt the worms or not play nice with the castings?
I'm assuming since they're all in the same food web, we're good, but we should really
address that.
Will you speak a little to it?
Yeah.
You don't want to overdo anything like we're talking about.
I don't know.
I use some K&F preps.
I use some JADAM.
I use a little bit of everything that resonates with me, but I mainly just focus on mulching
heavily, inoculating with as much diversity as possible, and just taking care of the soil
and letting the soil and the plants figure it out.
Strategically, you don't use as many inoculants as others would, but specifically to the question,
these natural ferments, so long as you use as directed, like 1,500, 1,000, as long as
you're using them at the proper strength, they're not going to mess with the worms,
right?
No.
At that level, it's homeopathic almost.
I really like that.
Less is more in a lot of the situations.
A lot of people get into this K&F stuff and they're like, okay, this says 1,000 to 1,000.
Let's do 1,500.
Let's double it up, because that's a very American way of thinking.
Dude, I have to cop to that.
That's me.
I have to constantly not add more of stuff.
I'm like, oh, if 1,000 is great, 1,200 must be five times as good.
For real.
It's totally not true.
That's working against nature.
Yeah, or just spraying FPJ or fermented fruit juice or something without balancing it out
first.
There's a whole lot to these schools of thoughts that you kind of got to know pretty much all
of it to understand why it works.
When you just hear one thing and you go for that, it might not necessarily be the whole
picture.
You could mess something up and then say, oh, K&F doesn't work or something like that.
That's classic bro science right there.
For real.
Absolutely.
This is one of the reasons why I'm not that great of a baker.
I'm a killer cook.
I do magic in the kitchen.
With baking, it's not about iron-chefing until you're already really good at baking.
When you first start baking, you have to follow the recipe.
I seem to have a total inability to follow the recipe.
I generally buy or trade for my breads.
Actually, I kind of wish that it was like in The Matrix when he plugs in the program
and he's like, I know Kung Fu.
I just wish I could plug in baking because a good baker, it takes some dedication and
development of skills before you can kind of iron-chef it.
I'm at such a novice level with baking that it demands that I measure everything because
I have not earned my right to eyeball things.
For sure.
I see a lot of similarity with that in composting or growing or whatever.
When you first start off, yeah, you can find there's some pretty strict guidelines out
there and you might want to stick to them at first until you have a baseline of understanding.
Once you understand why everything's doing what it's doing, then you can start to experiment
a little bit more.
For example, a lot of home worm bin owners will look up directions and stuff and say,
oh, I absolutely can't put any citrus in there, no onions.
There's all sorts of rules out there.
Once you understand your worms and your bin and everything, yes, you can put maybe a little
bit of something like that in there, but you don't want to fill up the whole entire
thing with any of those.
You want to understand the basic principles of covering up your scraps and stuff like
that to avoid getting fruit fries.
Once you stick to the baselines for a little bit and then get some understanding, then
you can go off on your own and start to experiment a little bit and do some cool stuff.
That's an awesome summary.
All right, so let's go ahead and take our second short break and be right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is regenerative farming educator Chandler
Mashulsky.
One of the challenges with buying auto flower seeds is that often you'll have as many different
phenos as you will have seeds in a pack.
That can be fun, sure, but so many varieties in one pack is a sign of an immature seed
line that hasn't been worked enough.
I prefer my auto flowers to be worked enough that each pheno in the pack really captures
the aspects that the breeder was intending.
This is why I recommend Gnome Automatics to my friends and listeners who grow automatic
flower and cannabis seeds.
Gnome Automatic seeds are not just crossed and released.
They are painstakingly sifted again and again, tested in a wide range of conditions, and
taken to a level of maturity that each plant will be recognizable by its traits.
Traits that were hard earned so that you can have your best growth cycle ever.
Gnome Automatics became a trusted and loved brand in cannabis over the last 10 years as
Mandalorian Genetics and recently changed their name to Gnome Automatics.
The only thing that has changed is the name.
Founder Dan Jimmy continues to pour his passion of breeding cannabis into every variety he
releases for you to grow.
Check out the Gnome Automatics Instagram at gnome underscore automatics to see the impressive
plants folks are growing.
You can score Gnome Automatic seeds in Feminized or Regular at your favorite seed provider
listed in the vendors section of their website.
Farms interested in bulk seeds of more than a thousand should reach out through the website
too.
While on the website, be sure to check out the Gnome Automatics shirts and other merch
section.
If you want reliable seeds, hand built from effort, expert selection and experience, choose
Gnome Automatics.
There are a lot of good people launching new businesses in cannabis, psilocybin, and other
psychedelics.
It's a very strange time for us.
In the same moment that psilocybin mushrooms are illegal at the federal level, they are
becoming increasingly legal in states across the country.
These businesses leading the way into the future of plant medicines require specialized
legal representation by attorneys who have depth not only in litigation, mergers and
acquisitions but also in psychedelic and other plant medicines.
Green Light Law Group has been empowering cannabis businesses since 2014 and as the
market has diversified into psilocybin and other plant medicines, Green Light has been
right there evolving with their diverse clients to provide legal expertise with a high level
of legal acumen, creative strategy, and precision that comes with an intimate and specific understanding
of both business law and plant medicine.
If you are a business owner trying to navigate the layered local and national drug laws on
your own, you are at risk of fumbling.
These confusing and quickly changing laws complicate everything.
Green Light Law Group is ready to help you when hit with a lawsuit, or because you were
shafted by a vendor or business partner, or simply because you want to stay legal and
could use some preventative guidance before cultivating a controlled substance as an entrepreneur.
Green Light Law Group is a collection of folks who care profoundly about their work and I
know this is true because I know the folks from Green Light.
There is a huge difference between a big legal firm who has decided to start representing
a few drug companies versus working with a collection of high integrity, passionate
lawyers who are personally interested in new plant medicines and firmly believe in their
power to heal.
Contact Green Light Law Group today and learn more about the services they can offer your
industry leading cannabis or psychedelics company.
That's Green Light Law Group at GreenLightLawGroup.com.
As cannabis regulations become more demanding and consumers become more educated, it is
increasingly important to avoid the use of chemical pesticides when cultivating cannabis.
Beneficial insects have been used for decades by the greenhouse vegetable and ornamental
plant industry and today many cannabis cultivators are moving from sprays and chemicals to beneficial
insects.
Coppert has the beneficial insects, mites and nematodes, microbials, sticky cards and
air distribution units you need to partner with nature to defend your garden.
Whether you manage acres of canopy or have a simple grow tent in your home, Coppert is
ready to help answer your questions and help you transition away from chemical sprays towards
clean and natural solutions.
Since 1967, Coppert has assisted growers in identifying pests and devising reliable solutions
while providing healthy insects and mites that will protect your yield.
Since the 1990s, Coppert has been a leader in cannabis pest and disease control worldwide
and have highly trained consultants to assist you in Canada and the United States from coast
to coast.
With their global network of grower support, Coppert can help.
Visit coppert.com, choose your country and get detailed information.
That's Coppert, K-O-P-P-E-R-T dot com.
For the most up-to-date cannabis related biological control information, you can also check their
Instagram at Coppert Canada.
You know getting away from pesticides is good for health and good for business and Coppert
is ready to help.
Visit coppert.com today.
Welcome back, you are listening to Shaping Fire, I am your host, Shingle Dose, and my
guest today is regenerative farming educator Chandler Michalski.
So during the first set we talked about the greatness and epic nature of the worm and
how we can work well together.
During the second set we talked about how to use the castings and various applications
in our garden so that we can get that nutrition into the soil.
And you know many people will just stop there and be thrilled because they will have a source
for you know the castings either from a local organic farmer or you know they'll find some
crazy hippie selling them online that they'll become friends with or whatever.
Or you know you can get them as a gift from somebody locally.
But for many of us, especially if you have got a large cultivation situation going on,
you're probably already thinking about setting up a worm bin.
You're all like I need to produce this black gold on my own property and then you know
inoculate it with your own IMO that you produced on your property.
And set three is for you.
So there is no doubt that you know an entire show could easily be done just on best practices
for making a worm bin and that is not what we're doing today.
The goal is for people who are considering making a worm bin to at the end of this set
you will have a better understanding of what it will require and you'll probably have enough
you know basic information to go for it.
But really we just kind of want to give you a taste of what the level of complexity of it
so you can like either A, decide if you want to do it or not.
But then also you know people like us when we get around for dinner parties,
this is the kind of stuff we talk about.
And like your next you know farmer dinner party if they're talking about worm bins,
you'll know what the hell is going on.
So you know take this information as you will but we understand it's not going to be
like a complete set of information.
So with that Chandler back to the worm species discussion.
So if we're talking about the worms in the soil just like cruising around being worms,
there seems to be a lot of variety of the kinds of worms that we can just toss into the container.
Is that the same when setting up a bin or is the bin more related to using one particular species?
Yeah so you can use night crawlers in these bins but I don't really like doing that.
They like to go down deep like up to like 12-15 feet deep and they obviously can't do that into
a bin.
So like I'd much rather use the red wigglers who only stick to that top six to eight inches which
is pretty much all that you're going for in a worm bin anyways.
So for like enclosed worm bins I think red wigglers are probably the way to go.
Is there a particular place that one sources those?
I mean if you know somebody with a worm bin,
what if they give you a couple cupped hands full is that going to be enough to start your own?
Or do you need like a bunch where you need to like order them from a worm bin starter company?
No popular weight to sell them in is in half pounds or pounds.
And so a pound is usually considered like a thousand worms.
And so that's a great way to start a worm bin and they will regulate their population and
stuff based off of what you're putting into it.
But a pound of worms is usually the ideal start.
All right so if we want to have a worm bin and we want to be producing enough castings
for our own cultivation needs for the season.
Now if somebody is thinking about selling these,
there are whole different sources about scaling up and that's not what we're talking about today.
But how big of a bin am I likely to want if I am a like just a home grower,
let's say, yeah I know this is not a legal number, but let's just say under 20 plants, right?
Yeah.
If let's say you're a home grower under 20 plants versus somebody who's more commercial scaled
where you're talking like a hundred and above, right?
Yeah.
So what are the differences in sizes so that we can wrap our heads around that?
So it's going to be tough to supply a hundred plants, you know, all year if you're doing
indoor and whatnot unless you have a pretty big scale.
And so like that's one of the biggest things with worm bins is a lot of people
get one to try to compost all their food scraps or all their garden waste and like
it's pretty limited.
You don't want to pack it full.
You don't want to overfeed your worms.
And so like ideally most people should have a regular compost pile out in their backyard
as well as a worm bin.
And so like then they can take, you know, just the best organic food that they have
or whatever, just the highest quality stuff, put that in the worm bin and then they can
put the rest out into the actual compost and then you can mix the final products or whatever.
And that's going to be a lot better for these large scales to have enough compost without,
you know, being full-time worm farmers.
How, what's the physical size of a worm bin?
Like two by three?
Yeah, it's a good size.
Pretty common to use your Rubbermaid totes or whatever, a great DIY solution.
Sorry about that.
Um, so yeah, you can use a little two by three tote, anything similar to that size.
But some popular like worm towers are out there and those are only maybe two by two.
And I personally like the continual like flow-through systems like the urban worm bag is a good one.
And you just constantly put your scraps on top and all the castings are on the bottom
and then you can actually harvest from the bottom there.
Separate your worms.
That sounds super convenient.
There's pros and cons to different at-home methods, but I think
understanding that you're probably not going to be able to compost all of your
waste through your worm bin is an important realization.
It sounds like you can't really go wrong either too.
Or, you know, just a cold compost pile outside as well as a dedicated worm bin.
It doesn't sound like you can really go wrong either.
Whether or not you use the bag or you build like a fancy wooden box or you use like a plastic tub,
your setup costs are really low.
And so just like get something and start with something.
And then as you get more sophisticated, you'll learn more what you want for your next one.
Yep. I love that.
And just getting like, don't be intimidated with any of this stuff, you know, just start
somewhere, start with what you have and make the best out of it.
And then over time, you can upgrade and stuff like that.
A lot of people think, oh, I just got to wait until, you know, I have everything I need.
Which is true about some stuff, but there's a lot of things in this gardening and composting that
you really can just, you know, connect some food with the ground outside or whatever and
stuff starts to happen.
Most of us probably have those black and yellow bins on the property and
that's what I'm going to use.
Perfect.
Right on.
So I know that the location of the bin on the property is important because we don't want to
cook it.
Kind of like when you inoculate wood chips and you're going to grow mushrooms on your property,
you're kind of looking like at the edge of the property near the trees where it's going to be
a little cooler.
Is that the same kind of place where we're going to want to put the worm bin?
Because we're probably all going to want to put it on our deck right next to the kitchen,
and I can imagine that might not be the best place.
Yeah, it might be convenient, but yeah, you definitely want to keep it out of direct
sunlight and keep it in the moisture and the shade.
If you got a tree line, you know, keep it just to the north of the trees on the south side of
your property.
Keep it nice in the shade.
That's just going to help out everything.
You're not going to have to add water.
It's not really beneficial to pour water over your worm bin.
You never want excess water.
I don't know how this became such a common thing, but people think that a healthy worm
bin should have leachate.
It should have excess water coming out of the bottom, but that's really not the case.
If you have a lot of excess water coming out, you're probably doing something wrong.
That being said, moisture is absolutely vital.
You got to remember you're creating the environment for the microbes, and they need that bit of
biofilm to swim around in.
They move around a whole lot faster, and they can set up their colonies and everything if
there's a little bit of moisture to it.
You really want to maintain the moisture of your worm bin.
If it dries out at all, your microbes are going to cyst up, and then when the conditions
are right again, they're not all going to come back.
You're going to lose some diversity.
Like we said, it's a time-consuming process, and you can't put all your scraps in there
already.
You really want to be speeding up the process as much as possible, so you can feed your
worms as much as possible.
A great way to do that is by reducing the particle size of your feedstock.
The more surface area you have, the more inoculation points for all your microbes.
It's going to be a lot easier for your microbes to get in and soften things up, break things
down, and then your worms to come in and eat those microbes.
Blending your food scraps is huge.
It'll save so much time.
But again, this is for that next-level soil nerd who's like, okay, I'm going to put all
my vegetable scraps into the food processor before I put them in my worm bin.
It's like, I don't know, just a whole other intentional thing, but you'll really decrease
the amount of time it takes.
Yeah, that sounds like a best practice that you might not have to start with at day one,
but you'll find a huge increase in benefit from that small action.
For sure.
And freezing them, too, is another popular thing.
If you're only one person or a small family, you can accumulate your food scraps.
If you have any extra freezer space, put them in the freezer, and then that freezing and
thawing will actually break down the cell wall and let those microbes get in there a
whole lot faster and speed everything up.
That's a common question for wintertime up here in Michigan and in these cold areas.
It's like, oh, can I still compost?
Yes, you should still accumulate your scraps.
No, they're not going to break down.
Yes, they're going to freeze, but then they're just sitting there and waiting for the spring,
and it'll all be good.
Yeah, and it's a great location to store them.
Yep.
When you first get your bin, what do you want to put in there?
Generally, food scraps, okay, but I've just started my bin, right?
Do you suggest that we save our food scraps for a week or two before we get our hands on the worms?
And I also see a lot of people that have got newspaper in their bins.
Is that like training wheels for a worm bin?
Break this down for us.
Newspaper is good if you don't have compost, but I'd much rather my worms just be in compost
and eating all those microbes than in newspaper, shredded paper, or anything like that.
If you have access to a ton of newspaper, which I don't even know who does anymore.
I don't know where they're printing papers still, but yeah, that'd be great.
You shred that up, and the worms love that as a bedding, honestly.
But I highly recommend using some compost in your bin and then adding your food scraps.
And just like any compost or any organic matter, there's a carbon to nitrogen ratio to consider.
And so you don't want all your nitrogen-rich food scraps just sitting on your bin and becoming
this sloppy, wet mess.
You really want to balance that out with the dry, carbon-rich brown material.
And so shredded up cardboard is wonderful.
Shredded paper is a part of the solution, but I think using compost that has wood chips and
all your twigs and stuff like that, you're going to get so much more diversity.
And also, a lot of people think, OK, I got this worm bin.
It should just be a monoculture of worms.
But that's really not the most healthy worm bin either.
You should have all sorts of soil mites in there.
Predators and shredders and quality stuff.
You'll get some rove beetles coming and pill bugs and all sorts of diversity that a lot of people,
if you're just beginning, might freak them out because they're just expecting to see worms.
But all those other guys are very, very helpful, very beneficial.
If we're looking to start or inoculate a bin, would it be reasonable just to take one of our
containers from last year and dump that in the bin?
We already know that it's living soil that's super biologically active.
Yep.
Yeah.
So that'd be a great way to go.
Yeah, absolutely.
How high on the bin or container do we want to put compost?
I've seen many people's bins that look kind of sad and there's only like this,
one or two inches of paper and old melons and stuff in it.
I'm like, that looks kind of sketch.
In my head, I picture a plastic bin that's a third or halfway full.
And then when I get the melon rind or whatever, I'll pull some of the soil to the side,
put the melon and then cover it back up.
But I'm making this up.
I don't even know if this is true.
So does that make sense?
Yeah, for sure.
So like I said, if you're using the red wigglers,
they're not going to really like anything deeper than eight inches.
So that's going to be probably about as high as you want to go.
So it depends on how often you need to harvest your castings or whatnot.
You could just let it all turn to castings on the bottom and continue to feed on top
and fill up the whole entire bin and harvest it way down the road.
But if you need those castings right away,
then you might not want to continue to add fresh stuff on top.
So my next part is the harvest.
So how do we...
Like in my head, the worms are cruising around in the compost and they're leaving castings,
but the castings are mixed in with the compost.
So am I going to harvest the entire bin and then start it again,
like I would do with a compost brewer?
Yeah, so this is where multiple bins comes into play.
And so like over time, you'd stop feeding your one bin fresh scraps,
or if you have like the vertically integrated system,
you'd start feeding that top one, the fresh scraps.
And so like all the worms on the bottom bin would go up through those holes in that top bin
and they'd find the fresh scraps.
And then in theory, all the bottom bin would be void of worms
or most of them would be on the top bin.
But yeah, different ways to do it for sure.
That's really cool and novel, man.
I'm realizing that there's a whole new world that I'm about to be turned on to.
I mean, the fact that people are stacking bins and putting holes in one
so the worms naturally migrate, I mean, that's just cool.
Yeah, for sure.
And you'll find a couple of different models like that.
I have the worm tower or worm factory 360 or something like that,
but it's just basically a worm tower.
And really, you only need two bins that stack on top of each other.
You'll find some models that have like five.
And it's like, yeah, there's, I don't know.
It gives you more options, I guess.
But really, you only need two, one to kind of let cure up and then one to start feeding.
And all those worms would migrate up.
But if you're just going to sift them, you can peel them out by hand.
But also, like we were talking about earlier, the avocado tech or any method to lure those worms up,
you put a fresh piece of pumpkin on there and damn near all the worms in your bin are going to be up
there and then you could just scoop them out in a handful or two and move them where they need to go.
So that's a great harvesting method.
Right on.
So is there a particular website or a forum for people who, like me, are now all jazzed about
this? Is there like, I searched before we talked and there is lots of information all over the
place. And like we know about cannabis, your mileage may vary on the quality, right?
Yup.
Is there a place that you recommend that people go to learn more if they've gotten all jazzed by
this worm bin idea?
Yeah, for sure.
Rhonda Sherman is one of the leaders in vermicomposting.
She's a true worm expert, vermicomposting expert.
And she has this website here.
It's a bunch of random letters.
It's an educational one, but composting.ces.ncsu.edu.
And there's a whole page on both home and backyard composting, which are, I mean, home and backyard
as well as large scale composting.
And so a ton of information there.
And a lot of the times it's hard to differentiate if this knowledge is for larger scale or if this
is really intended for your backyard small scale.
And so this page has all that information there, easy to break down and navigate through it.
So I highly recommend looking at that.
Awesome.
Good plug.
And if you're driving or something, don't get in a crash.
That link is going to be on the episode page at shapingfire.com.
So you can just go over there and click on it.
Perfect.
So in wrapping up Chandler, one of the first things that I learned about this,
well, actually the funny thing is, is like you told me that actually we knew about each other
before I realized that we knew about each other.
Because I thought I found out about you first when I saw advertisements for last year's
Michigan compost cup.
But then when I went to email you to invite you to be on the show,
your email was in you're like, oh no, man, I won a shaping fire contest.
And so I hadn't remembered that we interacted and you got something from Shaping Fire,
which was cool.
Absolutely.
But for me, last year when you guys did the compost cup in Michigan,
as many people know, I'm from Michigan, even though I live on Vashon Island in Washington
now.
And I'm like, oh, that would be so great to go back home for.
And so after that, I just kind of liked, you know, everybody involved with the compost cup,
just so I could see what cool stuff y'all were doing.
So I want to give you this opportunity to plug the Michigan compost cup so that all the listeners
in the Midwest, like might want to go, you know, have some community and stuff.
So go ahead and plug before we wrap up.
Awesome.
It is the gathering of the soil nerds.
It's just a celebration of soil and life.
And it's just a wonderful two and a half day event.
We're going to have hands on demos, still figuring out what we're going to do this year,
but probably going to be building some hugel cultures, doing some biochar demos.
And then there's some question panels and stuff like that.
But really focusing on as much hands on interactive stuff as possible.
Going to be a ton of fun.
And then all the best ganja in the state, all the regenerative growers,
all the best ferments and stuff.
Everybody ferments their own food.
And we're going to have educational panels on, you know, how to ferment your own food,
as well as the crossovers and like how you can use that information to ferment your own
inputs for your garden.
And like, just all this wonderful stuff, connecting so many dots and honestly,
just celebrating being alive and listening to music and just having fun under the full moon.
And so highly, highly recommend you guys come check this out.
It's September 9th through 11th this year up in Northern Michigan, near Bel Air, Michigan.
And just 22 acre property, all the coolest soil nerds.
Great time.
That's how that man, that sounds like summer camp to me, man.
That sounds for real.
That sounds like right up my alley.
So please come on out, man.
Check it out.
I do.
I am.
I am actually very tempted.
So we'll have to continue that conversation.
Awesome.
All right.
So Chandler, thank you so much for taking the time to share your experience.
You know, this, you know, worms are one of those things where we all know that they're vital.
And we, you know, we all try to have worms in our cultivations, you know, environment.
But, but I, you know, I'm probably not the only one that really did not have a relationship with
worms or like, I really didn't know much.
But after, after chatting with you, I feel a lot more prepared to, you know,
get into a stronger relationship with worms.
And I bet I'm not the only one.
So, so thank you so much for sharing all this experience and for the,
you know, the kind of evangelist role that you kind of play by encouraging people, because
no doubt us getting into better relationships with worms is going to put us in better
relationship with the soil, which is going to help us regenerate our earth and not break it.
So exactly.
So anyway,
It's cyclical for sure.
Yeah.
So it's been an absolute honor and pleasure.
Thank you so much for having me.
Fantastic.
All right.
So if you like, I want to follow along with Chandler, there are three key Instagram accounts
that you're going to want to check out.
All these links will be on the shaping fire episode page for this show as well.
The first one is a Jethouse Gardens.
Jethouse Gardens is Chandler's, I would call this his personal page.
It's mostly cannabis cultivation and lots of natural farming preps and places he goes.
It's just naturally, it's just cool.
So like follow Jethouse Gardens.
That's good stuff.
Second is WormiesGR.
So that's W-O-R-M-I-E-S-G-R.
That is where Chandler works as director of living soil.
And they essentially run a worm castings and education and soil company.
It's like pretty much everything about worms essentially.
And that is fun to follow for education.
But also it's just kind of cool.
You see applications and things that are happening locally for them,
projects that they're working on.
It's just like inspiring.
So WormiesGR is cool too.
And then of course, as Chandler already plugged the Michigan Compost Cup,
even if you are not going to make the trip to Michigan, if you're not a Midwest person,
the Michigan Compost Cup Instagram is still fun to follow.
Not only do you get to, again, more education,
but as they get more of their videos of speakers public,
you'll be able to access them and get knowledge there.
So the Instagram for that is Michigan underscore compost underscore cup.
You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the show at
shapingfire.com and wherever you get your podcasts.
If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it.
If you would leave a positive review of the podcast, wherever you download,
your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too.
On the Shaping Fire website, you can also subscribe to the newsletter for
insights into the latest cannabis news, exclusive videos, and giveaways.
On the Shaping Fire website, you also find transcripts of today's podcast as well.
Be sure to follow on Instagram for all original content not found on the podcast.
That's at shaping fire and at shango Lowe's on Instagram.
Be sure to check out the Shaping Fire YouTube channel for exclusive interviews,
farm tours, and cannabis lectures.
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire.
I've been your host, Shango Lowe's.
