We are at a very awkward time in the relationship between the cannabis plant and humans.
We've been using cannabis for health and spirituality for millennia,
yet because of the last 80 years or so of prohibition,
modern generations barely know the plant at all.
As a society, we are going to have to go through a process of re-learning how to use the plant,
how best to grow and hybridize her for medicine,
and of course we are going to have to undo all of the reefer madness
fed to us by the US government and institutional players like pharmaceutical companies and law enforcement.
Now that prohibition is unraveling in the US,
we have stopped strong-arming other nations to fight cannabis in their own countries too,
and now their freedoms are increasing.
Ukraine, Mexico, Colombia, Costa Rica, the Czech Republic,
and many more countries have varying forms of cannabis freedom,
and it is spreading globally at a fast rate now that the US has stopped bullying everybody.
Of course, there is Portugal too who shocked the world and legalized all drugs in 2001,
and has seen an addiction drop by 50% and violent crime rates drop too,
not to mention everyone is much happier.
What we do not yet have in the US are updated social mores for how to talk to each other about cannabis,
how to think about cannabis as medicine,
and how to build a business model for distribution that will work to the benefit of all.
Sure, in the cannabis activist scene we have much of this figured out for today,
but as more and more humans bring cannabis into their lives,
what is accepted socially will all change again and again.
Today's guest is Dr. Sunil Agarwal.
He is a medical geographer and a leading expert in cannabis medicine and cannabinology.
He is often a panelist and speaker at top cannabis medicine conventions all over the world.
Cherry-picking his accomplishments to describe him to you was really hard because he has done so much.
Right now he is a palliative medicine physician and associate hospice medical director
at MultiCare Auburn Medical Center in Washington State.
He received both a PhD and an MD from the University of Washington where he now teaches.
He also has degrees in chemistry, philosophy, and religious studies.
As a National Science Foundation graduate research fellow,
he wrote a PhD dissertation entitled
The Medical Geography of Cannabinoid Botanicals in Washington State, Access, Delivery, and Distress,
conducted under NIH first-issued Federal Certificates of Confidentiality.
Dr. Agarwal successfully led the effort to get the American Medical Association
to call for a review of the scheduling classification of cannabis in 2009,
their first such statement in 72 years.
He serves on the editorial advisory board of the National Cancer Institute's
PDQ Cancer Camp Information Summary on Cannabis and Cannabinoids.
Finally, he is associate member of the Humboldt Institute for Interdisciplinary Marijuana Research
and the New York Academy of Medicine,
an honorary trustee of the Medicinal Cannabis Foundation of India,
and vice president of the Washington Physicians for Social Responsibility.
And that's not even half of his bio.
It's an honor to have Dr. Sunil Agarwal on Shaping Fire.
So for today, let's look at the big picture.
Let's go back, way back, and consider the historical roots of cannabis and humans.
We will go back 30,000 years and page through the story of the love affair
between humans and a plant named Cannabis sativa.
Welcome to the show, Sunil.
Hey, it's great to be here, Shango.
I really appreciate you making the time to join us today.
So I want to start at the very beginning.
At the Greenflower Medical Cannabis Summit,
you were painting a really wonderful image of perhaps how cannabinoids came into existence
like 38 million years ago as a protective response to the increasing UV radiation from the sun.
I really enjoyed hearing that.
Would you go ahead and share that perspective with us again right now?
Oh, yeah, I'd love to.
This is something that I read in some geography book that has come out nicely recently
from a University of New Mexico professor.
I'm really just trying to understand the deep history of cannabis biogeographically,
where it evolved and when it evolved.
It's just because part of what people have lost is a connection of cannabis to the natural world,
the biosphere, like the web of life that we're all part of.
That was kind of the context I was giving that history.
When I spoke at the summit, trying to make that illegal alien nature of cannabis back to like,
hey, this is part of reintegrating it back into our sense of Earth.
So this advanced wind-pollinated plant that we know now as cannabis with two sexes
and occasionally hermaphrodites,
it evolved in a part of the world, Central and South Asia,
based on archaeological evidence, based on genetic evidence.
And the interesting thing is that it evolved in a place that actually,
at the same time it was evolving, it was also evolving in a place that was getting
higher and higher elevation every year.
Because it came at a time when the Earth itself was going through a radical transformation,
whereby at that time the Indian subcontinent actually had not joined Asia.
And there was a period of time, about 50 million years ago,
when that plate collided with the Asian landmass and you had the formation of the Himalayan mountain range.
And that was, as you know, the tallest mountain range in the world.
And there at the same time you have this cannabis plant that's evolving in the same time.
And how do you survive in a place where every year the elevation is getting higher and higher as a plant?
And one theory is that it has to create chemicals to protect itself from the damaging effects of ultraviolet radiation.
I really like... Oh, sorry, go ahead.
Yeah, and that's what it is.
And that's just, you know, it's not just cannabinoids, but terpenes,
but cannabinoids especially have these very nice properties.
And that's probably one of the theories.
I was really attracted to that story because it really respects the plant itself as having its own life story.
Because we always talk about what the plant can do for us,
but really the plant itself has its own story and it eventually comes in contact with humans.
And we start to cultivate it and it starts to influence us and then we start to influence it.
But it's got its own storyline as well.
And I think that's a great place to start.
You're absolutely right.
You know, it evolved, it has to survive, and it did a very, very good job.
It thrived and it adapted.
And that's part of, I think, why it is so hardy and able to adapt in so many places
because it kind of has this cauldron of great stress under which it was formed.
So, you know, most people don't see cannabis as being the long-term cure that we've always used,
except for maybe the last 80 years or so.
They don't really think about that cannabis was a central component of the modern pharmacopeia,
but also that we humans have been interacting with this plant for tens of thousands of years.
I know you like to talk about the place that the plant has in human history.
Will you walk us through the human relationship with cannabis over the ages to put the modern prohibition in context?
Oh, certainly.
It's quite a vast and long story, so anything I say in this short time will not do full justice.
I guess the place to start really is where it evolved in that part of the world,
where people started first coming into contact with it and domesticating it.
In South Asia, where my ancestors are from, 18,000 years ago,
that's the earliest dating of signs of domestication of cannabis.
There could have been some other records in earlier times in that same region.
But at that time, we don't know, but the earliest writings that we get from that civilization that referenced cannabis,
it's very much in the context of healing, which is not distinct from spiritual growth, spiritual development.
The idea that the two are separate is kind of a modern fallacy, I guess you can say.
In those days, there was really no distinction between the idea of achieving certain states of spiritual development,
meditative states, states of self-awareness, states of peace, tranquility, and a sense of healing,
which is pretty transformative and fundamental to cure.
If disease comes from the word dis-ease, to not be at ease,
and you have something that's potentially part of putting people at peace,
that's kind of the fundamental stamping out of disease is where it came, or dis-ease is where it came into play.
But certainly also it was seen in the development of Ayurvedic medicine,
traditional medicine systems such as, there are systems called Unani and Tibi,
which kind of came from Persia, and have other historical influences,
and cannabis found homes in those, traditional Chinese medicine, cannabis found a home.
There's suggestions from the Ebers Papyrus, which is one of the oldest medical documents that we have,
which comes from ancient Egypt.
There are formulas for the use of cannabis, and there it's much more analgesic,
much dealing with relieving pressure in the eyes, or pain in the eyes.
So it still had a dual role, both in the spiritual realm and in kind of dealing with pain,
dealing with problems of inflammation.
And I guess over the ages, this cannabis spread through the parts of the world
where those forms of systems of medical practice were used.
Chinese medicine, Unani medicine, Persian medicine, Indian medicine,
they went around the ancient world.
And I think, you know, there was early writings of the use in prevention of seizures
from much older times in Syria, and the first citations that,
like if you look at the government of India, it has a traditional knowledge library,
digital library, where they're trying to record all the traditional uses of plants and things
in their heritage, so that they don't get scooped up by big companies that say,
oh, we came up with that first, or something.
You know, they're trying to establish prior art.
They make reference to, I believe it's a 12th century textbook,
by a guy named Ibn Sina.
Ibn Sina. He has different names, depending on which part of the world you're in.
But this guy's textbook of medicine from that time, from sort of the Arabic Renaissance,
was widely read all over both the East and the West.
It was taught at Oxford, and even in the old monastic European traditions.
So this is the citation that I think they intentionally used to show that
this very well-known Arabic scholar of medicine and many other things
was citing cannabis and its medical uses, and it was being read both in the East and the West.
So that kind of was, I think, a big recognition that the most advanced forms of medicine
into the Renaissance and the medieval period, cannabis was part of that.
I think the next big wave that you can say, where we finally get much more wider exposure,
it happens in the 19th century, and there was ongoing use throughout the centuries
between the 19th and the 12th centuries.
And I don't want to go into so many different details that we can look at with witches
and traditional herbalists in Europe and indigenous uses in other parts of Africa
and other places that don't get a lot of attention.
But I guess its big moment in the sun, so to speak, happens in the 1840s
when, due to the British East India Company's activities in India,
they were able to import into India leading medical doctors from the 19th century
who were trained at the top academies of medicine in Europe in those days,
which was the University of Edinburgh in Scotland.
And that's where you got Dr. William O'Shaughnessy, who trained in Edinburgh.
And really this was a center of medical training, not just in Europe,
but also people in the United States would go to train in Edinburgh in those days
because there really wasn't big centers in the US in those times.
So anyway, this doctor, who was already kind of a genius Irish doctor
who had figured out the treatment of cholera,
who nobody had ever figured out that, oh boy, we should probably give IV fluids
to cholera victims with electrolytes in them so that they don't dehydrate to death from diarrhea.
So that was his doctoral thesis and a pretty brilliant discovery.
It probably saved many lives.
And he then got a lucrative position in the British East India Company.
They said, we want you to go to Calcutta, which is where our headquarters are in India,
at that time the capital of British India, and we want you to set up a modern medical college.
And this is the oldest modern medical college in Asia now, and still in operation.
And he established it, and he was such a kind of polygot and thoughtful man
that he said, hey, let's try to develop the principles where we can teach in the native tongue
to the native Indians, which is great.
I mean, they're colonialists after all, so they don't always have a high regard for native ideas,
but they did, he did.
And as part of that process of establishing chemistry department and the college,
he said, you know, I really need to learn the local medicines
so we don't have to import all of these from Europe,
and we can kind of learn from them and learn from Indians.
So he started seeing the use of cannabis in the marketplaces, the local fakirs and healers.
And he said, well, this is an interesting compound,
and he started experimenting with it in medical students and animals,
and finally in patients, and he kind of made his career, at least the first half of his career,
he was such a brilliant guy that he has actually many firsts to his name.
But he wrote a paper in the 1830s that got international currency
on the use of cannabis indica or ganja, Indian hemp,
and he covered lots of different conditions, convulsions, tetanus,
some conditions that, infantile convulsions and tetanus, and also terminal rabies,
again, were conditions where there actually was no cure,
because we didn't have modern antibiotics in those days, antivirals or inoculums,
but he was able to bring a lot of relief to people who otherwise would die very horrible deaths,
unable to eat or drink because of the convulsions from terminal rabies
when it gets into your nervous system, or severe stiffness from tetanus when it gets really advanced.
And he's able to relax those muscles and allow people to eat and drink,
and of course he did have other, you know, younger patients who survived convulsions.
So that kind of thing was excellent.
His discoveries really launched modern, the use of cannabis in modern medicine.
And I think, you know, we've just had a trajectory since that time where it's come and gone,
it achieved another peak, really it started peaking at the late 19th century, early 20th century,
leading doctors from around in the early 20th century,
Dr. William Osler, who's the father of internal medicine,
Dr. Gower, who basically did some of the earliest studies in Parkinson's,
Dr. Reynolds, who first established the typology of seizures,
epilepsy disorders, who was Queen Victoria's physician,
all of these leading doctors, you know, founder of Johns Hopkins University,
they all knew cannabis, and they all knew it was an important part of their armamentarium
thanks to the work of O'Shaughnessy and their own research on it and use in their patients.
So that finally, that era kind of came to an end in the 40s,
when early 40s, when the federal, it got political,
and, you know, there was increasing, now that the United States was a colonial power,
this is one theory, you know, it had taken over the Philippines,
they had started using, you know, dealing with Mexico much more,
they actually, you know, I think they saw cannabis in a different light now,
associated it with people that they were trying to control,
and, you know, it became much more of a political football,
and the medical arts around cannabis started falling out of favor,
there was also a move to more industrial medicine,
a little bit more pharmaceuticalized version of medicine,
and, you know, even though there had been attempts to grow cannabis in the United States
for pharmaceutical purposes, somehow it just didn't take.
So ultimately, ultimately, we have to wait until really the 70s and 80s,
and then now in the peak 90s and beyond,
that now we're having this next cycle of emergence,
and this time we are much more prepared and much more, you know, we can learn from the history,
and we now have this endocannabinoid system science that has developed
in the late part of the 20th century, that really changed everything.
I mean, now we finally have a deeper understanding of actually on a molecular level,
what are these cannabinoids that are in cannabis,
that evolved all those 38 million years ago, what are they doing in our human bodies?
That was an epic answer, Sunil.
No wonder you've got a dry throat.
That was awesome. I'm so glad that we got that recorded.
The picture that you just painted from 38 million years ago
to us learning about the endocannabinoid system in the 90s,
and then what's happening with modern medical marijuana,
that's an epic picture you just painted.
And because your answer was so full, we need to take our first short break right now.
We'll be right back. You are listening to Shaping Fire.
Using pesticides when growing cannabis has been common for a long time.
Nowadays, though, we know better.
We know that most pesticides formulated for food crops have never been tested for use with cannabis.
They've been tested to be eaten in tiny doses.
They have not been tested to be inhaled, and especially not concentrated into a cannabis oil.
Chemical residues from pesticides are not healthy for anyone,
but they are especially dangerous for patients.
For commercial cannabis growers, this has become very impactful.
Cannabis enthusiasts and patients have gotten educated enough
that they avoid growers who used pesticides.
Not only that, but states across the country have begun making pesticide testing mandatory
on all licensed cannabis crops.
The time has come to find a better way to fight garden pests
than covering your cannabis in chemicals.
And there is a better way.
Let some good bugs fight your bad bugs.
Beneficial insects and predatory mites have come a long way
since we were buying ladybugs online and putting them in the grow room
and just hoping for the best.
Natural Enemies BioControl can help you solve pest issues without using chemicals.
Natural Enemies founder Shane Young learned best practices
from working in the ornamental plant industry
and has fine-tuned those strategies specifically for large cannabis crops.
Shane works with commercial cannabis clients across the country
to ensure that they keep their crops safe and pest-free without the use of chemicals.
Natural Enemies has proven solutions for spider mites, aphids, thrips, russet mites,
broad mites, shore flies, white fly, and others too.
You can rely on Natural Enemies for expertise and excellent service.
For more information, go to shapingfire.com forward slash natural enemies
or simply click on their banner in this week's newsletter.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shane Golos, and our guest this week is Dr. Sunil Agarwal.
So, Sunil, before the break, we were talking about how, you know,
the medical cannabis has come to us through the ages,
and now in the modern world when we know about the endocannabinoid system,
that we are more prepared to learn about the influence
that this beautiful plant can have on our body.
Well, you know, animal study evidence showing cannabinoids kill cancer cells
started to begin to accrue in the early 70s.
You know, why do you think that institutional actors like the U.S. government
and especially major cancer study nonprofits aren't focusing on cannabis
and talking more about it publicly and even excitedly?
They just seem to be ignoring it.
Yes, it's a sad thing, and given how much the leading causes of death in the country now are cancers,
and, you know, in many other parts of the world,
we really are missing an incredible opportunity to study and develop treatments that involve cannabis.
And I think we kind of, I mean, it was starting to get, in the 70s,
there was a big interest in funding and cannabis research going on.
There was an interest in the national institutes, but, you know, politics won over.
There was a sense, I think, that, you know, the Nixon administration was like,
well, we don't really want to get that stuff out there too much
because I'm already using this as a tool for oppression against anti-war protesters.
And, you know, I've studied the Nixon tapes where they actually – he talks about his motivations
and he tries to fire the people who are at the world's leading medical research institute, the NIH,
who have argued that, you know, the restrictions are too much and there needs to –
you know, the harms have been exaggerated and, you know,
we should not be treating this like kryptonite or nuclear material.
But, unfortunately, that was not part of his mission.
And I don't think that he was – and his administration was somebody that didn't have any, you know,
compassion for cancer patients.
You can actually hear other recordings where he talks about, hey, you know,
it's terrible what happens to cancer patients.
They should have all the pain relief that they need.
And, you know, I think it's just – there was just such a fundamental lack of awareness
and understanding that cannabis could offer anything of value beyond getting –
as he talks about it, getting charged, getting buzzed, getting – you know, that was the view of it,
that it was just this total escapist, you know, it didn't have anything – any serious value to it,
despite the fact that, you know, doctors and folks above him or smarter than him were telling him otherwise.
So I think that's why the initial research got really – got shut down or didn't get renewed or developed.
There was other movements going on.
Again, it was always the idea, well, cannabinoids, who owns that?
Who's going to make a bunch of money off of that?
How are we going to mass supply that?
And that same time in the 70s is when you started seeing the development of chemotherapy,
modern chemotherapy.
And, you know, it was done at the NIH, the first use of what's called methotrexate
to treat a certain form of cancer that women who are pregnant can get, choriocarcinoma.
And, I mean, I think people were just – you know, they just didn't –
they didn't understand how cannabinoids work, they didn't understand, you know,
how we could produce that in a big way because it was too much of a political football.
And unfortunately, you know, we dropped that thread.
Now, at the same time, there was increasing awareness in the 70s that cannabis had a role for palliation in cancer.
And that started – did start to spread in multiple states.
Tennessee, even states that today aren't medical cannabis states like Tennessee,
you know, had a cannabis and cancer program.
People figured out that it could help them with the nausea and vomiting associated with these new chemotherapy drugs.
And that was going on for a while.
And then, you know, they shut that program down during, you know, in the 90s
and when the New War on Drugs got it going under Reagan and then the first Bush.
And then the AIDS patients also were trying to get in at that time too, and that got shut down.
So all of that – all of the political factors got in the way that stopped us from really moving forward on these things.
And it took – it took passage of California's medical cannabis law in 96.
To force the federal government to start allowing modern clinical trials research in cancer and also in HIV,
thanks to the work of Donald Abrams at UCSF.
I mean he cited the passage of the California law in his letters to the national institutes to get them to do something to approve his studies, which they finally did.
So there was that big long lapse.
So that was kind of a dark ages period of research.
And now there's been a reemergence.
And unfortunately, even to this day, because of the powers that be and the funding streams in the United States,
we have not put a significant amount of resources in the cancer and the cannabinologic approaches to cancer area.
Even though there was this big moonshot initiative that the vice president just did, Joe Biden, you know,
where several of us put in suggestions to the government, you know, you need to fund this type of research.
I mean, there's a huge promise in multiple types of cancer.
It just didn't come up in their latest report as a priority area.
They're looking at more – you know, they're looking at data sharing, registries, they're looking at immunotherapies and all these things.
Again, I think there's a lot of, you know, economic-like sort of issues there that go into play.
But other countries are developing cancer and cannabis research.
You know, they did a study in Israel where they looked at the use of cannabidiol to prevent what's called graft-versus-host disease,
which is a horrible complication of a cure for cancer.
So people get what's called stem cell transplants, hematopoietic stem cell transplants,
and they can get cured from blood cancers and they're looking at other disorders too.
And it's a great thing, you know, when you can kind of reset your bone marrow and blood.
And if you had a fatal blood cancer like lymphoma, leukemia, you know, and you can treat it and cure it with a stem cell transplant.
But then sometimes you can get a reaction where the graft of your transplant attacks your own body, graft-versus-host disease,
and it's a very severe complication.
You know, you get a lot of pain, weakness, stiffness, and it can make your life quality terrible.
And they did a phase 2 study where cannabidiol had a huge impact in prevention of that condition in patients who got these stem cell transplants, 300 mg a day,
starting a few days before transplant and until 30 days after transplant.
They really had a huge reduction in the likelihood of developing the most severe forms of GVHD.
That was done in Israel.
In Australia and I think New Zealand, they're doing more research on cannabis compounds and actual treatment of cancers.
UCSF did a glioblastoma study.
So I'm seeing a renaissance.
It is happening.
It's going to be slow, but it is starting in humans.
And I think we are just—we have to keep talking about it.
We have to do much more of it.
We have to fund it more.
And I think really there needs to be a lot more what's called empiric treatment trials where people—we really need to collect a lot of primary data,
real good quality data where people are using certain varieties with certain types of cancer.
Not all cancer is the same.
The idea that one size fits all is really not the way that cancer works.
And I think we—and I don't believe that cannabinoids are the sole treatment for things.
I think that's really foolish.
Cancer is such a complex condition, and there's many things that can be done.
It needs to be seen as an integrated part of cancer treatment.
And I think we really are still very behind.
I'm very hopeful.
I think the National Cancer Institute has taken on cannabinoids in cancer and put up a very thorough review for the public and for doctors, health professionals.
And that's a pretty bold move.
That's government-funded.
And that's—they go through a lot of the details of the mechanisms by which cannabinoids kill cancer, which is, by the way, a very unique mechanism.
Some of the problems that we have in cancer treatments is that so many other cells suffer when you're trying to kill cancer cells.
And what's unique about cannabinoids is oftentimes they are very targeted.
And that's pretty nice.
You leave your healthy cells alone and you target the ones that are causing the problems.
So, Sunil, one thing I want to ask you before we go to break that I've always been curious about is that when I learned to what degree cannabinoids can start to cause apoptosis and stop this spread of cancer cells and that there was something there, right, it astonished me and continues to that there are so many majorly funded cancer nonprofits that say up front that,
you know, we will find a cure for cancer and we're funding all this cancer research.
And yet, you know, you don't hear about them talking about cannabis or pushing for cannabis or lobbying the government.
And it seems to be coming more from patients themselves and skipping over these major nonprofits.
So if you can kind of give me a short answer before we go to commercial, you know, why do you think that these large cancer nonprofits are not speaking with a louder voice to try to push this research?
Yeah.
Listen, this is a Schedule 1 status of cannabis, marijuana.
Really, there are areas where that doesn't matter and there are areas where that really matters.
And I think when you're talking at this level of official cancer research, these things have a huge impact.
It really does.
And I think that's, you know, we have – that's part of the fundamentalism around cannabis that the government maintains.
You know, Schedule 1 is a type of fundamentalism, the idea that there is no safety under medical supervision.
There is no accepted medical use.
I know they're trying to talk a big game about research right now, the DEA even.
But, you know, the maintenance of that idea is so far off from what we know.
And I think it's still very difficult to touch for some of these mainstream organizations.
Right on.
That makes a lot of sense.
Well, while you take a drink of some water and rest your voice for a second, we're going to do another commercial.
We'll be right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
Look inside this crystal ball with me for a moment.
I'm looking just a couple months into the future.
I'm seeing the future of the Shaping Fire podcast.
The show sure has grown.
I've continued to interview fascinating cannabis industry luminaries, and our audience has gotten huge.
It has doubled and redoubled and doubled again.
There are high fives all around the Shaping Fire world headquarters.
New listeners are subscribing every day and begin to listen to the back catalog of all the great interviews there.
And that is where the Shaping Fire audience learns about your company.
You were incredibly smart today to become an early adopter and place a commercial in Shaping Fire's early episodes.
If you become an advertiser on the Shaping Fire podcast now, today, you are going to pay a fraction of the cost we'll be asking in just two months.
And yet, all the audience that listens to our back catalog of interviews will hear about your company again and again.
It's a great deal for you.
Pay a small amount now because the show is so new, but take advantage of the huge listening audience we will have forever.
This crystal ball is not a smoke dream.
Do yourself a solid and contact us today for rates on podcast and newsletter advertising.
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out more.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I am your host, Shango Lose, and our guest this week is Dr. Sunil Agarwal.
So, Sunil, you know, the show so far has been so educational for me.
You know, the first part of the show, we were talking about the epic history of the plant and our interaction with it over the centuries.
And then the second part of the show, we were talking about, you know, the prohibition years and how the marijuana fundamentalism has still got a hold on us.
But we're more prepared now to learn from the plant and how it can work with our endocannabinoid system than at any other time in human existence.
And that's, you know, that's a really great message.
What I'd like you to do now is, you know, open your mind's eye and imagine a future where humans are caring for their endocannabinoid system with supplementation through the use of cannabis and, you know, maybe eating, endocannabinoid system enhancing foods.
You know, what does that society look like?
What's the human health look like of those people?
What's our best case scenario?
Oh, sure.
Well, you know, I think the important thing is to recognize first and foremost that there is an aspect of health, aspect of medicine, and aspect of science that is fundamentally cannabinological.
There is a part of our lives, a part of our health that is so critically governed by the science of cannabinoid signaling, the science of interaction with—through which, I mean, from which arised or, I mean, out of—which came out of the study of cannabis.
So the fundamental role that the plant cannabis plays—but it goes beyond cannabis, too, because we've found cannabinoids in other plants, and we have our own internal cannabinoid signaling system, which is even older than cannabis itself, if you look at the evolution of that.
So this is an area I think should be called cannabinology, and I think it gets us to sort of recognize that, OK, well, this is an essential part of biology that helps us regulate our homeostasis, and it's involved in mood, appetite, memory, inflammation, pain perception, muscle tone, bone growth, tumor regulation, stress, seizure activity, gastrointestinal activity.
I mean, it's everywhere.
It's playing an important role, and I think if we recognize that, then we can start to understand our health conditions a little bit more deeply, trying to see if there is a dysregulation or problem in endocannabinoid system, either in an organ or system-wide, that might explain clusters.
I mean, I think Dr. Ethan Russo, who I know you've interviewed before, has really done a lot of great work to start thinking seriously about clinical endocannabinoid deficiency syndromes, and I think there's a lot to be said for that.
You have certain clusters around migraines, irritable bowel, fibromyalgia, endometriosis, and probably many more we'll start to see as we start studying on a molecular level, genetic level, endocannabinoid tone, endocannabinoid deficiencies.
We'll get a finer grain understanding.
And, you know, I think part of that is starting to recognize, looking at the health conditions through a cannabinologic lens, and then recognizing that, well, there's ways that we can intervene or we can treat people cannabinologically to make a difference, to restore the problems that are, you know, the baseline issues that are impairing their health quality of life and causing symptoms and issues.
And I think there's—it's not just that.
It's also preventative health side, too.
But, you know, so there's two different branches.
There's treatment of acute issues, and then there's making sure issues don't come up, and, you know, making wellness.
So I think the first side of it would be where you integrate cannabinologic approaches, thinking, and treatments into all branches of medicine that are relevant.
I think, you know, we talked about oncology.
I think neurology, rheumatology, I think these are some of them, and, you know, pain medicine and palliative medicine are some of the really—and I should also mention rehabilitation, which is one of my central specializations.
I think all of those areas are really ripe for having a cannabinologic approach.
And I think we—I'm just so excited to think about what that would look like if we are starting to say, okay, you know, that's one approach that we are—so patients who go to clinics or, you know, they're looking on their—or they, you know, they see their doctors or their whatever allied health professionals, and they start seeing that those people recognize that maybe there's a cannabinoid problem at the basis of your oncologic, rheumatologic, et cetera problem.
So let's see if there's a way that we can boost your endocannabinoid activity, maybe with some ratio of botanical cannabinoids, whole plant extract, and let's, you know, see how that does for you.
And, oh, luckily, we've done some research on that with people with just your condition, and we found out that, you know, a one-to-one ratio of THC to CBD in a whole plant extraction makes a big difference in terms of restoring that problem for you.
You know, we've seen—there's been research that shows in multiple sclerosis patients, if they take a one-to-one extract over time, they walk better, and they have less emergency room visits, not to mention better, you know, pain and spasticity, and that's been in double-blind placebo-controlled studies.
So I just, you know, I think it's just a matter of translating what research we do have and actually starting to roll this kind of thing out so that people who have these conditions know, their providers know, and then the patients directly know, and there's something available for people around the corner or in their healthcare system where that's provided for.
I really believe that local medicine systems are an excellent way to go because cannabis can be produced locally, and we can start to quantify and, you know, make varieties and preparations that everybody can understand and share and use.
And I think ultimately you just have a—I also believe there's a great therapeutic aspect on the preventative health side and the kind of complementary alternative side where you're looking at gardens and growing green plants and how people can have more interaction with that if that, you know, makes their days better, their pain better, their mood better, and I think that's a nice aspect to it.
And then that also dovetails into the preventative health side.
What does it mean to use cannabis instead of alcohol?
Or what does it mean to use cannabis as a tool for yoga, meditation, spiritual pursuits, you know, recreational therapy?
How does that, you know, how does that impact overall quality of life and stress, which we know is a big part of heart disease?
So I think that's—you know, some of this is so hard to envision because we're still stuck in this fundamentalism, which keeps us—keeps the relationship with cannabis really monopolized or a better way to say oligopolized.
Only a few people have legitimate access.
And I think once we recognize—and actually, you know, this is a commonwealth.
We all have the right to access cannabis and also have relationships with it, not just with consumption but production.
And I think health therapeutic relationships should be a forefront of that.
So whatever that looks like to you, I think there's a lot of areas—I mean I didn't even mention like infections and diabetes and heart disease, stroke prevention, dementia, preventing and treating dementia.
There is so many exciting things that could be—that cannabinoids hold promise for.
And I'm just—I think that future is very bright.
We just—we just got to like collectively get off this fundamentalism and just do it.
That's awesome.
I love that picture.
And I can imagine how, you know, as cannabis becomes less stigmatized and this research that you're talking about is happening more and more, that what we're going to be seeing is, you know, a decrease of each of these different categories of human ailments and just less sickness across the board.
And, you know, and that's really exciting.
And I'm really glad that you were able to take time to be on the show today to kind of put it all on this long timeline so that we can really look at how human health and the cannabis plant are intertwined.
And I think that's where we're going to stop for today.
Sunil, thank you so much for being on the show.
Oh, it's been my real pleasure, Shango.
I look forward to hearing any feedback from your listeners.
And please check out my work at Cannabinologist.org.
Right on.
Fantastic.
And so you can find out more about Dr. Sunil Agarwal on his website, which is Cannabinologist.org.
And that's C-A-N-N-A-B-I-N-O-L-O-G-I-S-T.org.
You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the show at ShapingFire.com and in the podcast section of the Apple iTunes Store and Stitcher.
If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it if you would leave a positive review of the podcast wherever you download.
Your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it, too.
On the Shaping Fire website, you can also subscribe to the weekly newsletter for insights into the latest cannabis news and product reviews.
On the Shaping Fire website, you will also find transcripts of today's podcast as well.
For information on me and where I will be speaking, you can check out ShangoLos.com.
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at ShapingFire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire.
I've been your host, Shango Los.
