In the early days, cannabis primarily tasted and smelled like it did due to the soil, climate,
and genetics of the region of the world that it came from.
In the United States, we primarily received flower from Mexico, but flowers from other
Latin American countries certainly showed up as well.
Rarely, but sometimes, we were able to delight over something especially exotic, from Afghanistan
or Thailand, too.
Over time, though, enough bag seed found its way into the hands of cannabis lovers who
also had the mind and resources to grow them locally.
Breeders all over the world began to cross and hybridize these cannabis chemovars to
create unique plants that had their own taste, growing patterns, colors, and medicinal value.
This breeding happened both indoors and outdoors, but due to prohibition, breeding was mostly
done indoors in the United States.
Breeders hybridized plants to tease out the most wonderful attributes.
Sweet, sour, earthy, skunky, and fuel tastes all became more pronounced once breeders got
involved.
Breeders also selected for mold resistance, size, overall health, and so many other attributes
that a particular grower thought might be valuable.
This dedication to craft is why cannabis breeders are revered and why modern cannabis is so
badass compared to the stuff we grew up on.
If you enjoy hearing frank discussions that dive deep into cannabis health, business,
and technique, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
Every week, you'll receive a new podcast episode delivered right to your inbox, along
with commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week and videos, too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published.
Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I am your host, Shango Lose.
My guest today is Mean Gene.
Mean Gene is a legendary cannabis breeder from Mendocino in the Emerald Triangle region
of Northern California.
He is owner of cannabis genetics company Freeborn Selections, but is most known for his epic
collaborations with aficionado seeds like the Black Lime Reserve strain.
Today we're going to talk about Mean Gene's breeding practices, naming conventions, and
that epic Black Lime strain.
Hey, welcome to the show, Mean Gene.
Hey, how's it going?
Good, good.
I'm glad that you could make some time to be here.
When I was getting set for this show, the first thing I noticed is that I actually thought
that your primary association was with aficionado seeds because everywhere I've gone, it's always
like Mean Gene from aficionado.
But after I got the opportunity to start following your Instagram feed for a while, I realized
that the imprint that you are primarily responsible for is actually your own Freeborn Selections.
Would you break it down for us, how you work between aficionado versus Freeborn?
Yeah.
I mean, basically, Leo from aficionado was somebody who actually was living right on
the same road as me.
He won the Emerald Cup, and I said, well, these guys look like they have some good seeds.
I messaged him, I think on Facebook, to say, hey, can I pick up some of your seeds?
I wound up meeting him, and those guys saw what I had, and they were like, yeah, do you
want to do some kind of a release through aficionado?
Your stuff is really good.
We started collaborating on a little bit of stuff here and there, and we put out Black
Lime Reserve, and the In the Pines, and the Versailles.
I gave them the Red Hindu Kush F3 that I had.
I think that's about the only ones that we really put out.
Those are the ones that people ... Black Lime Reserve was a big, huge hit.
I knew it was going to be good because I really like black lime myself.
When we put that one out, that one got a lot of really good press.
Then I did, I think it was, there was like 650 entries or something in the Emerald Cup
in 2014, I think.
I took second place with that.
People really know me from my work with aficionado more than anything else because those are
really the only seeds that I've publicly released other than me and Braveheart from
Oregon.
We did a little giveaway that was Nubia, which is a CBD plant crossed with the Harlesu from
Ringo at Sohum Seeds.
Really freeborn selections, a lot of people are growing out the seeds and have grown out
the seeds that I make for years.
If for anybody to really know me for having ever got any of my seeds at a club or anywhere
else, those would have been aficionados.
That's really why people, if you ask, oh, me and Gene, they're going to go, oh yeah,
aficionado, Black Lime Reserve, In The Pines, and those ones that I did work on.
It's a lucky thing that you chose somebody good to work with when you won, right?
Because if you're going to be associated with somebody, Leo and aficionado is like, that's
somebody great to be associated with, even if it was just for a couple of runs.
Yeah, for sure.
It was funny because they won in 2012, and then I came in in 2013 and I took third, and
then 2014 I took second, and then 2015, I guess, I took first place in the Emerald Cup.
It was funny because after a while, people started to say, it's fixed.
These guys win every time.
There's no way that you can just win every time.
It was actually one of those things where I was actually, it was actually a great feeling
to have people say, oh, the contest is fixed, you win too much.
It was about seven or eight episodes ago, we had your neighbor, Alan Atkison, on the
show.
He was telling us that you live on the same mountain.
He said, yeah, man, I can throw a rock and hit all of these Cannabis Cup winners that
live all around me.
It's like there's some kind of magic on that mountain.
What do you look for when you're looking for a location for breeding?
Well, there's a really interesting thing that happens.
There's the whole people have finally started to open their eyes lately to the whole question
of terroir and basically location.
Some people will say, oh, it doesn't matter because if you're growing in potting soil,
it doesn't even, location doesn't even play.
What's interesting about this part of California is that if you go all the way over to the
extreme coastal zone, your flowers will basically produce mostly leaf and they'll produce a
lot of resin and they'll produce a lot of terpenes, but they'll have very little density
and they'll be very lightweight and your plants will grow really slow.
It's not good for production, but for smokability, stuff is really nice.
So then when you come a couple miles back and then you start to get into areas like
Calm Chi, Branscombe, a little bit further inland than that would be maybe like Laget,
the west side of Garboville and Redway and areas like that, even a little further west
and closer to the coast would be like Honeydew.
There's all these little areas and every area has something different.
From looking at it over the years and being in different places, I've been able to find
a correlation where you look at what is, when you get farther away from the coastal influence,
what happens is your flowers, they have smaller features.
Every part of the flower is smaller.
The stems are thinner, the leaves are smaller, everything is basically smaller.
Even the trichomes even become shorter and more closely clustered.
So there's an interesting thing that happens where when you go to the coast, it gets larfy.
When you go inland, it gets so hard that when you go to break it up to say roll a joint,
it actually breaks down in almost an undesirable way where the flowers themselves are so dense
that when it breaks up, it almost turns into powder.
If you go over to the coast, then it breaks up into these big chunks where every piece
is this big, big piece.
I'm right at a place where I get the benefit of the coastal influence that causes it to
grow really big, well-defined features.
I get the really big, tall, thick trichomes, but I still have the advantage of being far
enough inland that my flowers still are dense and they look nice to people who are into
that look of something that's actually got a nice dense, round look to it.
Yeah, that bag appeal.
Yeah, and so it's really interesting because people will say, okay, well, it's just either
it's a coincidence or it's a fix.
Either it has nothing to do with anything scientific because it just is random and there
happens to be a lot of people in this area who have award-winning cannabis or they say,
oh, well, they just give it to somebody who they know from that area.
What people don't understand in a lot of cases is that the way that people like Tim from
the Emerald Cup or the judges from the Emerald Cup, I met those guys because I ... I mean,
I knew Tim from years and years back, but we weren't in the same circle.
We didn't hang out together.
He might've known who I was a little bit, but the reality was that those people got
to know me because they went, wow, you had some really good weed.
That's how I started to know those people.
It wasn't the other way around.
And that's how it happens when you run an event like that and then you meet people who
have really outstanding stuff, you're going to go, oh, well, you're the one with the ... They
obviously have an interest in really good weed.
They're having a contest, right?
So that's how it happens that there winds up being in this little area.
In my opinion, people here have really been holding a lot of the best genetics for a long
time.
This particular town in this county is a place where a lot of really, really good stuff has
come out of.
And so you have the genetic advantage, you have the advantage of a lot of people who
have experience.
And then what I was saying about the climate is you have this one little area where you
get the best of both worlds, where you have the coastal influence, but not enough to take
away from the quality as far as, okay, well, it's got the look and it's got the smell.
If you go ahead and you go over one mountain over to the east, you'll have a lot heavier
flowers and you'll get a lot bigger yields.
But when you go to break it down to roll up a joint, when they go to smoke it in a cup,
it doesn't break down the way that nice indoor will break down.
It's almost like it's compressed because it grows so dense, it's ridiculous.
And so for me, if I'm looking for the ideal climate, I really like places like just to
the east of Santa Cruz, Santa Rosa, the east side of Garboville, the east side of Redway,
right here where it's in Mendocino along these ridges here.
There's these certain areas that really will produce the type of flower that makes it the
most smokable.
And that wouldn't matter, say, for something like concentrates, but for the actual, in
a flower contest, there's a certain texture that just breaks up and it rolls up better.
And so certain strains, if you have a less, a strain that has less dense floral clusters
and you grow that to the east of me, then it'll get dense enough to where, okay, well,
maybe someone sour diesel might be coming from the east and that might do better than
something that I have here.
Because when I grow it here, it's not really dense enough to get the, to win the points
on the look in the contest.
So there's different things and there's certain strains that do better in certain climates,
just like with grapes.
If you grow one type of grape, you're going to want one type of, you want a certain temperature
on the nights.
And if the year is not as good, then it's not as good of a year for a certain type of
wine, you know, and certain areas.
And then of course, you know, then the soil goes into play, but most people use potting
soil and that's the big point everybody has.
Well, it doesn't matter where you do it if you're using potting soil.
And I'm like, no, climate's big.
If you run an indoor room and you keep it slightly more humid, then you're going to
have flowers that are going to be not so ridiculously dense.
And if you run it a very, very arid environment, you're going to have stuff like if you grow
purple urkel, you look at it and you can't even tell where the features are.
It's just this thing you're like, I can't tell where anything is at all.
It looks like somebody put it to, smashed it all to get grounded up and smashed it back
together because every little feature has grown to be so petite, you know?
So that's a big thing.
Yeah.
Let's take that one more step further, right?
So you're talking about breeding the superior flower for a cup and for you and your friends
to toke.
So how does that play into the breeding, right?
Because you're choosing your key males and females in this kind of Olympic training environment
that you're growing these flowers in.
But then you're passing on this gear to people who are going to be growing it all over the
country and indoor.
And so what do you consider when you're growing it on your property, which is pretty much
a perfect place to grow, when you're considering the gear that you're going to pass around
to others so that maybe it doesn't need to have such a perfect environment?
Well, that's another interesting thing, too, is that as much as it's a great environment
for something that will do well in a contest, it's also an area where things have to be
really, really hardy and they have to be really weather resistant.
And you know, like if a strain is prone to powdery mildew, it's going to show in this
area because we do start to get the fog at the end of September where other places won't
have it.
And we do get, you know, this is this is like considered like a temperate rainforest here,
especially when there used to be more redwoods in the area.
This area, you know, this year, I think I mean, this is just a rough estimate, but I
think we got maybe 100 or 110 inches of rain here this year.
And that started in the end of September last year.
So anything that does well here, it's going to have a pretty good shot at doing well for
people in most climates.
Like if I have something and it really does great for me here, somebody in Oregon or
Washington where the weather is even worse, it's still going to do better than a lot of
stuff they might get because of how the weather is, as opposed to if, say, I was an
outdoor guy and I was in I was in Southern California or I was in Nevada or, you know,
if you were at a low, you know, it just it's we're at a fairly high elevation here.
We're fairly coastal.
And so everything as I go through, I really try to look at, OK, well, how would this do
for somebody in a more extreme climate?
And I try to really go for things that are hardy in all ways.
And that's one of the things that's made me wind up with strains that are so high in
terpenes, because terpenes are oily and strains that produce a lot of oil tend to do a
little bit better in, say, the rain or the fog, because there it's almost like it's like
water off a duck's back, you know, the rain falls on them and it just it just comes off,
you know. So so, yeah, it's interesting because it's such a great climate for the
finished product. And yet it is kind of a challenging climate as a farmer.
It's kind of like survival of the fittest, right?
It's like, well, if it does well on your property, it's going to be thriving.
And the the turps are high because it's got a really strong immune system.
And so then it's attractive, attractive to our human nose, too.
So you're, you know, the combination of of the difficulty and also the, you know, your
terroir means that that the strains that you're breeding are probably going to be pretty
good, you know, pretty bulletproof just about anywhere unless you, you know, change
temperature, humidity in a big way.
Yeah, it's it's really neat.
It's almost kind of like a like a magical thing, you know, to look at it and go, OK,
well, there's all these things that have come together to make, you know, to to to lead
things down the path that they've gone down because, you know, it's everything's been
underground for a long time.
So people don't necessarily know like Mendocino County.
At this point, maybe people still are, you know, saying, oh, Amsterdam or, you know,
these different places where people know about a lot of weed or even like Humboldt.
Humboldt has been known for a long time and Mendocino and Humboldt, Trinity, Sonoma,
Monterey County.
There's really been a lot of really great strains that have come out over the years
again and again.
There's just all this stuff.
And I feel like part of it comes from the people who live here, of course, have more
experience and do more stuff.
But I think also the climate of this area, like I said, you know, if you have this stuff,
if your weed is greasy, it does better in the weather.
And the fact that we have a little bit of a more extreme climate, I think that, you
know, that in all of these areas that might be that might be pushing that a little bit,
you know.
Yeah, right on. That makes sense.
Hey, let's go ahead and take our first short break and be right back.
You're listening to Shaping Fire.
And my guest today is Mean Gene, master cannabis breeder at Freeborn Selections.
We'll be right back.
As cannabis normalization sweeps the country, knowledge of how to grow cannabis naturally
and without synthetic inputs has become more and more available.
In fact, probiotic growers are experiencing large yields and exceptional terpene profiles
without using chemicals banned in their state.
Move away from the risks inherent to chemical nutrients and instead invest in your soil.
Use your soil again and again, reducing costs and improving the vitality of your soil with
each cycle.
Keep It Simple Organics has been a leader in aerated compost teas for years and now
provide premium soils and nutrients to the cannabis industry.
They offer a full line of all natural inputs for building your soil, feeding microbe
communities and brewing nutrient and compost teas.
They can even help you test your soil to spot deficiencies that may be holding you back.
Check out their website at KISOrganics.com.
Enter the word shango into the format checkout to receive 10% off your first order.
Stop pouring bottled nutrients on your soil only to throw it out each cycle.
Start building living soil that will serve you for years to come.
Visit KISOrganics.com and grow healthy thriving cannabis.
We humans are attracted to plants because they offer us relief and are a whole lot of
fun. Sometimes though the best parts are buried inside the plant and we need to use
specialty extraction technology.
When it comes to cannabis it is extraordinarily important to extract its precious oils
without changing them in the process.
We want to preserve the properties of the cannabinoids terpenes and other constituents
that all work together.
Since 1994 Eden Labs has been developing extraction technology and processes to do just
that. Eden Labs was founded by a cannabis loving engineer during the early days of
medical marijuana in California and the expanded Eden team has been designing and
building industry leading solutions for cannabis extraction ever since.
Eden Labs flagship product is the newly improved high flow CO2 extractor.
As other extraction companies enter the market it is the high flow from Eden Labs that
everyone chases and tries to compare themselves with.
Not only that but the improved automation software allows data to be collected stored
and studied. Eden Labs can outfit your whole lab.
Eden's cold finger ethanol extractor creates astonishing whole plant extracts working
alone or in tandem with an initial stream distilling step to isolate monoterpenes before
extracting the rest of the botanical constituents.
Eden offers you many options including vacuum distillation, column distilling, stirred
reactor units and accelerated solvent recovery.
When you partner with Eden Labs your lab team is enrolled into the Eden Labs training
program to boost their understanding of Eden's best practices to ensure that your outputs
are exactly what you require for your application whether it be dab oil, oil for pen
cartridges or edibles.
When you work with Eden you're not just buying the tech you are buying dedicated customer
support to help you attain your business goals too.
You can hear Eden's CEO AC Braddock talk about the company's values during Shaping Fire
episode 19 that was all about CO2 extraction.
So many of the new companies in the market just smell opportunity slap an extractor
together and hire a marketing company.
Eden Labs has been listening to feedback from extractors and consumers for about 25 years
now. They care about both you and your consumer.
Partner with Eden Labs to extract astonishing cannabis oils and terpenes that you will be
proud of. Go to shapingfire.com forward slash Eden to find out more.
Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host Shango Lose and our guest this week is Mean Gene, master cannabis breeder
at Freeborn Selections.
So Gene before the break we were talking about the importance of weather and terroir there
on your very specific mountain where you grow.
And you know a lot of people take your seeds and they bring them indoors.
So you know it begs the question you know do you have a part of your breeding process
that that comes indoors.
I mean do you do any sifting indoors.
Are you doing all your sifting outdoors.
Well I mean you know in certain cases it's nice to do certain work with clones that have
been proven again and again indoors to be really stable because then that way you know
that you're at least getting part of your gene pool is coming from something that's
tried and true indoors.
I do a little bit of breeding indoors or in a like an indoor outdoor kind of environment
meaning that it's like you know like a green a winter greenhouse with supplemental lighting
which I honestly think is better for stress testing for indoors than actual indoor scene
because it's a lot harder to keep the environment really dialed in.
Yeah.
Because it really swings.
Exactly.
And you get you know you will get those lower temperatures and you will get some of the
higher temperatures and you know it's a little bit harder to keep it like you know if I if
I was running an indoor it's really easy to go OK I'm 76 degrees all the time night and
day.
That's all it is.
And and that's cool for me because indoor where I live has kind of gone.
It's kind of gone out years and years ago.
There's people who do it.
But as soon as people were able to grow out in the open in the sun and the prices started
coming down for people what started to happen is it became a lot more efficient for people
to start running light depths and running greenhouses and running outdoor.
And so what I do basically is I try to breed stuff outdoor because in my experience if it
does if it if it does good indoor it's going to do great outdoor.
So like I said if I'm starting with some of those some of those genetics you know
different you know OGs or Master Kush Hindu Kush different things that that they you know
they do perform well indoor and then I incorporate those into stuff that I have coming
from outdoor.
But a lot of the genetics that I had that were coming from outdoor were AFGANI based.
And so when you take them and you put them indoor they do great.
You know the stuff that the stuff that has more of a problem going indoor is ironically
the stuff that's coming from indoor like the chem dog the sour diesel some of the OG
Girl Scout cookies cherry pie.
Those are the things that you know even when you bring them into an outdoor breeding
program you go through them and you go oh some of these here they you stress them a
little bit and they they go intersects on you.
So you know what I do is I is I mainly breed outdoor because if it looks really good
outdoor and it smokes really good outdoor when somebody takes it indoor if they do it
the right way indoor has potential to have a little bit more of what like what I always
call like the perfume on it like if you grow outdoor OG it's very earthy and robust and
it's nice it has a great smell but good indoor OG has this little added little spectrum
of terpenes that seem to show up that are detectable.
It looks a little prettier.
It's a little shinier.
It's a little the resin tends to look a little bit more light colored.
And so I try to find the stuff that when I when I breed it outdoor it looks almost like
it's indoor you know and I won't say like oh this will pass for indoor but it's in that
ballpark you know.
So then what I do is I'll have people go ahead and grow them out indoor.
And as far as I've seen so far a population that you can grow really stressed outdoor
or in a greenhouse and it stays stable and doesn't show any signs of intersex when you
take that and a good grower grows it indoor it's going to do just as good as far as sexual
stability indoor as it does outdoor.
Everything that I have that is problematic indoor it's problematic outdoor if it's
stressed you know if it's over watered if it's too hot in a greenhouse or whatever it
is.
So for me for breeding I do pretty well being able to do it all outside and then do a lot
of testing inside you know.
Yeah right on that makes a lot of sense.
One of the things that I enjoy doing is over the winter I'll I'll play with some some new
seeds and strains that I've never used before and you know see what they do indoors.
But in the at the end of the day for my own head I really like the terpene profiles that
come from full on sunshine you know.
I mean my LEDs are great and you're right.
There are all sorts of really nice attributes of growing indoors and you know it's kind
of like training an Olympian right.
You're training for a very specific thing and I can control everything and I end up
getting this good product.
But but I also like that little bit of a you know that that that wild outdoor taste from
the broader spectrum of the sunshine.
So you know whatever whatever I find over the winter that I love the best I'll take it
outside and see it express itself that way.
And you know I think that's just a fun thing of being able to go indoor and outdoor that
you can see both expressions.
Yeah I think so too.
And I know what you mean about the outdoor.
I mean like personally for me I only know a few people.
I know a lot of growers and there's only a few people whose indoor is something that I
would want to smoke above outdoor.
You know I mean it's it's it's a lot of people say OK.
Indoor is always better.
And for me I'm like if I'm going to see a hundred samples of indoor and a hundred
samples of outdoor I'm probably going to like five of the outdoor and two of the
indoor.
You know because outdoor everything just kind of thrives and it works.
And indoor a lot of times stuff is just really washed out and you can tell that there's
too much heat and it just doesn't look it doesn't look like it's healthy and that
that happens a lot.
You know and then I notice outdoor although indoor the resin might be more visible.
A lot of times the outdoor it's actually more of these thick almost like sheets of
resin where the trichomes are almost sticking together and like globs.
And I you know for me like if I if I smoke indoor I'm going to be I'm going to be
high for you know maybe an hour.
And if I smoke if I smoke outdoor and of course it's genetics or it's hugely dependent
on genetics.
Some stuff no matter what it's going to get high for like four hours if it's got
some crazy haze or something.
But I really like the high from the outdoor.
To me it really just hits me and it stays and I can really feel it and it's not just
like this little rush of stuff you know.
So yeah I also find that you know I still consider myself a novice grower and growing
outdoors is just so much more forgiving.
You can make simple mistakes indoor and end up with big problems but but outdoor you
know you've got you've got you know pest predators naturally outdoors you've got
the sunshine to help you with some of the molds.
So long as I don't have you know extensive fog I'm you know I know I'm going to be
in pretty good shape outdoors whereas indoor something can go bad fast.
Yeah it seems like outdoor the environment is forgiving enough that as long as you as
long as you handle it and dry it correctly you know as long as it's properly dried and
handled you're going to have something that's really nice.
But when you're indoor it's almost like the whole process of flowering is like a
curing process.
If your room you know out outside your stuff can be budding and it gets up to 90
degrees and you're fine.
But if you're growing indoor and your room is hitting 90 degrees all the time it's
like when your weed is finally done it's just going to be you know it's just I don't
know.
It's just yeah it's just there's nothing substantial anymore about the about the
residence profile you know.
It's like when I stay in the sun too long you know like oh man I need to go take a
cold shower somewhere.
Yeah yeah.
So so you know every breeder has got those specific cannabis plant attributes that
turn them on the most.
And and you know it's a regional thing and it's also a breeder thing.
What do you look for when choosing plants that excite you that you want to work with
further.
Well you know for me it's like experience leads me a lot.
Like I can look at a plant and go ooh that's one of those plants that gets the big buds
all the way inside of the plant or ooh that's one of those plants that doesn't need a
lot of support or that's one of the ones that's shaped that certain way where I know
it's just going to get tons and tons of buds all over it.
Or you know the main thing for me as far as like what what defines the quality of a
strain is really what do you wind up with in your bag when it's all said and done.
So for me what I want is the ones that have that crazy.
I'm really you know I mean for a lot of people it's all about well is it is it stony
what's it do to you what are the effects and I can appreciate that and I respect that
mindset a lot.
But like honestly for us growing up here like when we were smoking a lot we would smoke
so much that it wasn't a matter of OK well we only have this four grams of weed how high
is it going to get us.
So we really got into flavors and smells a lot and I really like the I really like the
flower just for aesthetics aside from actually consuming it or doing anything with it.
I like to sit and I like to hold it.
I like to smell it.
I mean the same way people like like cut flowers like if you like you know whatever
tuberose or gardenias or you know whatever kind of flowers that are nice just because
you can sit and smell them.
I think of I think a weed like that.
So I want to I want usually to have it be something where when I have it I really enjoy
how it looks and then I really enjoy how it smells and I like the ones that are really
special in that if you smelled them and you didn't know it was weed you might not know
that that was a weed smell you know.
Yeah.
So that's that that leads me a lot.
But then it comes down to on top of OK what is it in the bag.
It's also what is it in the garden.
So is it fun to grow or is it a nightmare to grow.
You know.
And so anything that's where I say that's why I say experience has led me.
It's like I look at a plant and I go oh this one's going to be a pain in the butt you know or
this one's going to be a dream and I'm going to be happy just to go work with these plants
every day.
So if I have something and I say oh I like this one you can bet that the plant is going to be
fun to grow.
It's going to be fun to look at.
It's probably going to be fun to harvest and it's also going to be fun to have it dried in
your bag.
Yeah right on your your black lime reserve was a home run by anybody's standards and I'm
grateful to have been able to sample it a few times.
You know it's like it's got that bright lime and coconut and fruit over over like a bed of like
soothing earth and moss you know it's it plays both ends of the spectrum.
Yeah.
And it's not like you know like when you when somebody says can you taste the fruit.
Can you.
And you're like oh maybe I can.
Whereas the lime it's like boom you know it's like it's like a you know a green popsicle out of
the out of the fridge that that you're that out of the freezer that that point you know what what
did what went into that.
You know since it's probably the strain that you know I would say nationally you're probably most
associated with.
You just just gives us a little bit of background of the black line.
OK.
So the deal with that was that that release was a clone that I keep that I call lime number one.
And what it is is is it's a PK the OG type because there's a couple different kinds of PK but the
one I used was a type and I I crossed it with what I called black lime and what black lime was was
I I had these plant I had these seeds and I got them I think 96 or 97.
I got the I got the two different kinds of seeds and one of them I was working with my buddy and he
actually got one side of it which was an old strain that was a lot of a lot of chemical smells really
deep really heavy a lot of skunkiness really toxically stony to the point where like if
somebody is drinking alcohol like smoking that is a no no like four beers and two hits of that and
you're probably going to be laying in the bushes throwing up you know it was really really strong
and we called it pog for purple orange and green.
I didn't come up with it my buddy did and it was it was old genetics that were that were that came
from my family in the 80s and got recycled through a couple people and then came back to us and you
know it was kind of like just the regular stuff to me and I didn't really you know I didn't really hold
it at a high value because none of it was pure anymore it had become this old oil can strain crossed
with which was a which was a Wahakan Afghani crossed with the northern lights that was a clone we gave
them for years and this guy did this breeding and then me and my buddy worked for me got some seeds so
there's that side of it which is this really deep heavy nasty gross thing but it was it was amazing but it
was just crazy you know and and then I had I worked for for another friend of mine and I was silk
screening people's trim back then to make them hash you know and I was pressing the hash and people were
like whoa this is like old school hash from back in the day you know and this is like I started doing this in
like 94 95 this guy from Lebanon showed us how to do it how to press it you know and we're like oh that's
really neat you can press it because of course if you have really good hash you can press anything but he
showed us how to press anything basically that could be pressed to make dark sticky nice hash using heat and
everything and so I was doing that and so I went through the guy's stuff and as I'm going through I go hey there's
some seeds in these are these good you know and he goes yeah I'll give you some other seeds though but if you
want him you know I mean you can try him he goes but they're nothing I did on purpose so who knows what they
really are they're just seeds and like a rounding error for him yeah so so I take the I take the one I take the one and I
take the other and now the Paul guy knows good so I grow it out the other one which at the time I didn't know what it
was I just knew it was like Afghani and and later on I found out there was Northern Lights in it and then even more
recently only like last year I was talking to the guy I was talking to a friend who had been talking to the guy I got it from
and he goes hey did you know he had used the the old Burmese in there from so and so and I go no I never he never told me
that and he goes yeah I was he goes we went further down the rabbit hole you know we got down the wormhole or something
like that and he goes then all of a sudden you know this there's more info pops out and he's got the Burmese in there the old
Branscombe Burmese and I was like oh okay and so that made a little bit of sense to for there to be something else in it
because it was so exotic this other thing it was always like grapefruit or cranberry or lime or something just always really
nice you know and so so of course the ones I knew were pretty good because the Pog my buddy had bred a couple times and he said
oh these are all really good now and so I did a seed patch garden and what I did was I went okay well here's the here's the one that I
know is great I'm gonna keep the males from these and here's the one that came out of that shake I'm gonna go ahead and get rid of
those males because I don't know yeah I don't know what's gonna come out of this stuff because the guy who gave it to me he said he
didn't know you know yeah so he only grew one thing but he just wasn't he is like that probably not my keeper plants those are
probably the more wimpy ones because it's the party you got to focus somewhere yeah yeah so so I get those and I grow them and out
of the ones that were the citrusy ones I got a couple really nice big beautiful plants that were just what I would have wanted
but interestingly enough the worst plant in the whole thing that was all one of those ones that if you looked at all the plants and you
go okay well there's a dozen of them let's get rid of the weakest one that was the one that wound up smelling like it smelled like
Thailand you know and so I really you're like buck up camper you got some work to do you need to bounce back oh yeah no I mean it was it was
basically like okay well and typically in breeding the way I do things is this if I get boys that are really really really weak or there's
something that I really don't like about them I'll go ahead and kill males but and this is for open pollinations of course I do selective line breeding
to where you only use one male but in this case it was just we were just trying to make a whole bunch of seed with this stuff and just kind of see what we get so I wound up kill I wound I wound up killing all the males from the citrusy stuff and from the fuel II stuff I wound up keeping maybe three or four males I don't remember there was a bunch of
them there and I killed most of them and so so when I have females even if the females look bad I keep them just in case they have something really cool because it's not gonna water down the gene pool because it's easy to keep the seeds from a female separate but when you have a lot of males together you can't keep them separate their pollens all gonna mix right right so whereas I call a lot of the male population I don't call out much of the females unless there's something
really bad about him like maybe if they get like a stem rot or something that I just I just don't want to have nothing to do with even growing at one time but if I'm willing to grow the plant one time and it's a female it's gonna stay and so it was just this wimpy little plant it's buds when they were finished were only about as big around as my thumb none of them were long and they had these tiny little leaves in these thin little stems and it gets all the way I think it was a way was a Burmese throwback judging by what was in everything
and it gets all the way to the end and it gets this incredible smell to this day it's still my favorite smell and it does it comes out of the line but there's not a ton of them in there because the lime was the cross of this weird plant that was there and it was already kind of a sport and then I had crossed it was something that was in a totally different world of flavor so anyway
uh what ended up happening was I labeled it I labeled all the plants so I had like tall purple
tall purple cranberry tall green fat northern lights you know and then this one plant it smelled
lime and it turned black in the fall so on the package of seeds which was a bag of seeds that you know geez it was a lot you know as a lot of seeds I made it was a whole imagine you know it's a whole garden full of six foot plants and they're all fully seated you know yeah that's a lot and so that's a release right there yeah it was a lot of seeds and so um
so that's what it wound up getting labeled as as the black so that I would know which planet was oh this was the plant that smelled like lime and it was in a turn black so that's where the name black lime came from it wasn't like ooh what's gonna what are people gonna really think is cool or whatever it's like no it's just it's just off of my label which is how most of my names come about I just I write them down for reference for myself and then people ask what it is and that's the only name for it and then the name sticks you know
yeah so that was really where that came from and then I wound up taking a male out of that population when I planted some of them because the females came out really good and I didn't really expect them to be that crazy but they were they were amazing they were like the best stuff I've ever seen and then it started there started to be the og craze and so I went well let me take some of my different males and throw them on ogs and see if I get anything to come out og which I didn't because all my stuff was so dominant over the og
so I wound up with this basically with a plant that had that did really good but it it it wasn't og it still had all of the all of the terpene profile from from the middle ground of the of the black lime so it has this really heavy chemical funk earth moss thing like you said and then it has all this really beautiful floral limey citrus zest stuff going on you know and that's that's
that's why it wound up being such a such an odd thing because I really I took two things that were
really different you know what I mean it was like peanut butter and bacon or you know it was it was a weird thing to put together so.
Right on cool well thank you for sharing that story and that makes a lot of sense too because the
the flower that I have you know it's it's this kind of you know blackish bluish almost iridescent and
it's nice to hear the background behind it and we're going to go ahead and take our second short
break and be right back you're listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is Mean Gene,
master cannabis breeder at Freeborn Selections. If you grow cannabis with sunshine you can often
feel limited by the seasonal cycle. You want to grow sustainably and save money so you use as
little electricity as possible but if you haven't studied or implemented light deprivation techniques
into your greenhouse you're leaving a lot of money on the table. By incorporating light deprivation
solutions into your greenhouse you can often add two or three additional growing cycles to your year.
When you pencil out the financial benefit of those additional cycles you'll realize why commercial
scale light deprivation technology is remaking the cannabis industry. What used to be done by pulling
tarps over hoop houses has been scaled up over the last few years in such a way that it's become
mechanized easy and affordable to even small scale commercial cannabis operations. Forever Flowering
Greenhouses is the industry leader in light deprivation greenhouse design and operation for
the commercial cannabis industry. Their team of greenhouse experts have been in the fields of
northern California for decades and they're now building greenhouses for commercial cannabis
companies across the country. If you are new to light depth and growing in greenhouses I encourage
you to go back to Shaping Fire episode 13 with guest Eric Brandstad of Forever Flowering. I talk
with Eric about the importance of intelligent greenhouse management as well as the huge
financial benefit of incorporating light depth techniques. There are so many aspects of utilizing
a greenhouse that can go wrong. From temperature and airflow to light depth and workflow Forever
Flowering will help you produce crop after crop of well cared for flowers. They can help you retrofit
your existing greenhouse with light depth and other modern systems at a level that fits your budget.
If you're just starting out Forever Flowering can help you plan and build your new greenhouse so
that you get started on the right foot. The cannabis business has enough risks without trying to go it
alone with your greenhouse. Contact Forever Flowering Greenhouses to partner with folks who
have an indisputable reputation as knowledgeable and easy to work with. Go to shapingfire.com
forward slash ffg to find out more. Now that the health benefits of terpenes have become well known
in the cannabis industry people everywhere are looking for the purest terpenes without adulterants.
The problem with most terpene providers is that they're not sourced naturally and instead are made
as a byproduct of refining petroleum and that's so sketchy. The terpenes sold by True Terpenes are
entirely different. They are certified organic, non-gmo and food grade. That means that they are
extracted from real plant sources. There are no solvents of any kind. They are distilled only with
steam. That's right only steam. In fact terpenes from True Terpenes are so pure that you can eat
them. Not only that but you can stack them with better results too. What I mean is other companies
terpenes have got a few percent of impurities and when you stack those terpenes to make your blend
you're adding a variety of impurities that degrade your final product.
True Terpenes also have strain specific terpenes for a wide range of cannabis strains like Durban
Poison, Sunset Sherbet and Granddaddy Purple. True Terpenes has robust and supportive customer
service so your questions will get answered fast and efficiently. If you shop for terps before you
know how rare that is. So whether you want to cup your hands to smell some beta-caryophyllene to calm
down after getting too high or if you want to dab some pinene so your lungs feel fabulous and your
mind feels liberated. True Terpenes will provide you with a truly natural experience. If you are
a cannabis product developer these are the terps you want to add to your oil or edible or capsule
or whatever. True Terpenes are simply the best your money can buy. Don't try and make a premium
product with substandard terps. Choose True Terpenes for a top shelf experience. Go to
shapingfire.com board slash true terpenes to find out more or click on the link in this week's
newsletter. Welcome back you are listening to Shaping Fire and I'm your host Shango Lose and
our guest this week is Mean Gene, master cannabis breeder at Freeborn Selections. So Gene you know
I know that you've done some runs with Aficionado and the Aficionado stuff is all you know ultra
premium elite and also in limited edition and you know that is an interesting aspect of it because
it makes the seeds themselves more valuable but it also keeps it out of the hands of a lot of
people. So I'm just curious what your thoughts are on the limited nature of seeds like do you
are you attracted to the idea of a limited run so it's a little more rare or was that mostly
just because that's the Aficionado like premium model to release? You know that's actually a
concept it's kind of a double-edged sword with with doing stuff limited but it's a concept that
I was supportive of because I've noticed over the years that if things are a little bit harder to
get people tend to value them more highly and take them more seriously which from a preservation
point of view because that's really you know I'm really concerned with things staying around
because I've seen so much stuff just be gone and you never see it again. So to me I feel like if
somebody gets a pack of seeds and they know that there was only ever a couple hundred of these
packs released or there was only 50 of them released once they get it they're more likely
to breed it and keep those seeds around and people are more likely to say oh I really wanted to get
that whereas if everybody's already seen it at everybody else's house they're more likely to go
yeah I could get that anytime I'll grow that later you know. Yeah I mean certainly when I see
people at the Aficionado booth at Emerald Cup I mean people are treating these things like they
are you know gifts from the gods because I mean not only are they paying you know serious money
for them but you know really if you know that's all you're gonna get and so you know you're popping
each one with intention and you're taking care of it and you just you know I know when I have got
rare seeds I just shower them with more love and care than I do if somebody gives me oh here this
is my latest run here's 50 seeds of it you know. Yeah and I you know I use the analogy of dogs you
know because I see a lot of I see a lot of things a lot of parallels because you know breeding
dogs breeding seeds like you know I have a I always say hey you know like and it's the same
with seeds with dogs I say hey go adopt a dog go get a dog at a shelter they're all good it's the
same as seeds it's like hey go buy that 18 pack of seeds go try yeah plant those seeds that you
found in the bud go plant those seeds that can't even it you know what I mean like just try them
all and there's gonna be there's gonna be some stuff but I know for a fact that if if somebody
goes and they and they go get a dog out of a cardboard box in front of a store you know they're
gonna be less likely to focus on that dog as much as if somebody says hey here's a $12,000 puppy
somebody who buys a $12,000 puppy you think they're gonna miss their shots and let them get
parvo or they're not gonna cut their toenails or they're not gonna check their dog's ears and teeth
and you know what I mean like I I have you know I have dogs I have one dog that's inexpensive you
know highly bred like show dog type pit bull and I have a mutt that's a Saint Bernard and blue pit
bull mix and I treat them the same but I also treat crappy bag seeds that I find out of a bud
that I think is a good bud to me finding that bag seed that's just like somebody saying hey here
is a pack of seeds these are really expensive they didn't make very many you know so for me I have
like that understanding that it could be anywhere but I know that there's a lot of people who don't
think that way so I do understand the the value of telling somebody look these are very rare
there's not a lot so that's like when the black lime reserve was the first thing that I put out
publicly with aficionado I was like well you know I had a lot of them I could have put out a couple
thousand packs but I knew that if I put out 300 packs that people would take them more seriously
and they would be more likely to clone ones and when they get a keeper they'd be more likely to
make more seeds and they'd be more likely to make crosses with the seeds because I like it when
people do that stuff with my seeds I don't want to just put out a cross and have people go oh yeah
that's cool what's the next one you know it's like the like you said people people act like
their gifts from the gods and like you know depending on whether people believe in gods or
a god or just the universal force or the spirit or whatever people believe where we're getting our
getting our life from you know those seeds are a gift from that force you know like that that's a
major thing that like every type of every type of life form that there is is special but these ones
that help us as much as cannabis I mean you know there's nothing that's really as helpful potentially
to us as as cannabis can be I mean you got something here that can potentially if you find
the right plant it could cure any disease it might just be a matter of finding oh okay well look this
one produces this chemical and you know once you get it down to everybody only going oh yeah we
just all grow og or oh we just only grow sour we just only grow cookies that's fine but it gets to
a point where you go well but what about all of this you know these plants they don't all grow by
themselves we've we've adopted them into our cultures and then we keep them and then that
means that if all of a sudden we lose them it's like we've adopted them and then we've abandoned
them you know so we become responsible for the gene pool because we've done these things to it
and we've created all this really crazy diversity and then after a while then we go oh no no no and
it just all gets it it all gets left by the wayside and so you know there's there's there's
like uh there's an aspect of things being sought after and so at this point now when I feel like
okay people understand that if I have a breed and I say that it's really valuable and it's really
special and it's worth growing people now more so than when I first released stuff people will
believe me so I feel like now I can put out a lot of seeds and I can put out a lot of different
strains and people will understand where I'm coming from in breeding that that these things
are special so I don't necessarily have to say okay well this is so special like this and so so
special because of that I can just say look this is really good this is worth having please if you
buy them make more give them to your friends take clones keep it around because it's part of of
what's going on you know so that's why I say it's like a double-edged sword where you go okay well
it's good to have it be limited but at the same time you're gonna miss some of these people who
are out there who are preservationists who were hoping that they could get a pack and those guys
didn't get a pack and some guys who just grew them out real quick and sold the weed without ever even
smelling it because they heard it was a hot item those guys got some of the packs too so I want to
be able to put them out so that both those I want to be the guys who want to get the seeds and they
just want to hey I just want to grow a bunch of weed and I'm going to make money and I'm going to
look cool and this and that great get these cool strains but I want them to be able to also reach
as many of the preservationists as as they can so that people get their hands on them and in
you know 50 years or 100 years or a thousand years from now there's somebody who's got these
things and they go hey I don't know where these came from but they're really cool and they're
valuable let's keep making more and you know that that's like a service to the to the plant because
the plant is you know they're like for me personally there's nothing in life that's ever
done as much for me as as a cannabis plant has you know yeah well amen to that and you know you're
you know I I'm glad to hear that you like the idea that people are you know making crosses
with your gear in order to you know preserve it in their region the the seed pack that I know that
came up here near near me you know my buddy planned the four crosses well in advance so we
had it all lined up and you know and so we got to try you know the original black lime as you intended
but then also you know four crosses and you know the black lime is still in there you can still
taste it but you know you can also get the variations and so so there's a lot of joy in that
and and so you know let's let's um let's wrap up with this you know there's a lot of folks who are
listening today who aspire to be an elite breeder like you are and and a lot of folks you know
they're getting their start by you know just they've got you know two strains that they like
and then they cross them and they've got f1s and they share them with their friends and they feel
good about that and so they you know they they pick up a breeding book and they get a little
more serious but but you know you you've done you've done it all now at this point so what
advice do you have for folks willing to put in the work who want to follow on this path behind you
what advice would you give them that can kind of help them along their way
um my biggest advice would be you know like uh do you know go with what really uh what you really
really like um a lot of people you know as like a commercial breeder uh i was talking to somebody
and they were saying oh i just you know i just take i just take males and put them on these clones
and like kind of you know like oh yeah like that's nothing and i was like well you know if you're
going to make stuff for p for other people i what i said i think as uh if you want to please
the crowd you got you got to play the hits right yeah so that's a cool thing to do but
if you're even if you are doing that you really want to go with what you really like so the things
that really um that you really vibe with like all right this is something that i really like like
you know i have a buddy who he's like i've seen all the weed i've seen all the kush i've seen
everything he goes i like granddaddy perp or urkel those are still the thing that i like i like perps
i'm not into this kush i'm not into this diesel he's just like perp perp perp i'm like if if you're
the guy who likes the perp then that's your thing if that's your very favorite thing then be the guy
who makes the perp crosses who makes the the strains that are based on perp and that have
those things that you really like and then really really tune into that really tune into what you're
vibing with because those good feelings that you're getting about something those are what are
really telling you that that's what you're supposed to be doing that's how our intuition works and
that's how that's how our our brain and our our you know everything is really is our whole energy
is really wired to that like okay if you want to breed breed the thing that you really like now
you might if you want to do it like commercially you might have to think about okay well what where
where is the place that there's the overlap between these two these two groups of traits here
okay everybody else wants it to be stony they want to get good concentrate production they want
a plant that's easy to grow they want a plant that's high yielding they want disease resistance
okay now so you know everybody wants those things so then now with the things that you really love
which might be like in my case i love stuff that's floral i love stuff that's spicy i love stuff
that's earthy i love the smells that to me are like classy like to me like loud is cool but it
doesn't have to be loud for me it needs to be special so that's like my little thing that i got
going so it's got to be whatever you are really really into you got to tune into that and make
that be what what you're working towards you know because that's the only way you can really do
something well is to go is to be able to really be turned on by it like all right this is the
thing that i like so this is what i know about you know like if you're gonna be if you like heavy
metal don't play jazz you know what i mean if you like uh if you like tacos don't make pizza
you know do whatever it is that thing that you really really like tune into that and do that
to the max and then that's when you're gonna wind up having these things that are that are really
cool you know yeah totally following your passion and you'll you'll uh you'll never be bored in the
in the cannabis field that's for sure so gene thank you so much for uh spending some time with
us i know your time is valuable especially this time of year when you're especially busy
but uh thank you for being here and sharing what you got yeah thank you for having me on dude and
you know i'm glad to be able to get a little bit hopefully you know somebody can get a little tidbit
of info here or there a little bit of inspiration or direction or whatever and um you know make some
make some um some good seeds or just you know find some good seeds and grow some good weed or
you know whatever whatever people are doing with it i think that there's some amazing insights in
your story and a lot of inspiration too so i'm sure people are gonna dig it you can find out
more about mean gene and freeboard and selections by following his instagram at mean gene from
mendocino i also highly recommend that you check out the interview that kevin jodrey from wonderland
nursery did with mean gene as part of the wonderland nursery seed series shaping fire was
actually a sponsor of that down in humboldt a couple months ago you can check that out on the
wonderland nursery.com site of course you can find out more about aficionado seeds at aficionado.com
and you can buy aficionado and freeborn selections when they're available at seeds here now.com or
you know come on down to the emerald cup in december and buy it direct at their booth you
can find more episodes of the shaping fire podcast and subscribe to the show at shapingfire.com
and on apple itunes stitcher and google play if you enjoyed the show we'd really appreciate it if
you leave a positive review of the podcast wherever you download your review will help
others find the show so they can enjoy it too on the shaping fire website you can also subscribe
to the weekly newsletter for insights into the latest cannabis news and product reviews
on the shaping fire website you will also find transcripts of today's podcast as well
for information on me and where i'll be speaking you can check out shango-los.com does your company
want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts email hotspot at shapingfire.com to
find out how thanks for listening to shaping fire i've been your host shango los
