It is taken for granted nowadays that healthy soil is alive. The ground we walk on is alive.
But this was not the case just 40 years ago when western agriculture thought of soil more
like an inert robot. The Soil Food Web methodology describes the community of organisms living
all or part of their lives in the soil. It describes a complex living system in the soil
and how it interacts with the environment, plants, and animals. It describes the web
of life from large animals all the way down to the most basic microbiological level in
soil and water. If you really want to grok the Soil Food Web in an instant, do an image
search online for Soil Food Web and see any of the incredible illustrations that exist.
Or check out the Shaping Fire Instagram today for one of my favorites.
The Soil Food Web is at the very core of regenerative agriculture and not only will
inform your cultivation efforts to help your plants thrive, but it will inform humanity
in how we may heal our planet before we make it uninhabitable for ourselves.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, cultivation, and technique efficiently and
with good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter. We'll send you new podcast
episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox, along with a commentary on
a couple of the most important news items from the week and videos too. Don't rely
on social media to let you know when a new episode is published. Sign up for the updates
to make sure you don't miss an episode. Also, we're giving away very cool prizes
to folks who are signed up to receive the newsletter. January's giveaway sponsor
is Gaslamp Seeds. You've heard me talk about them before by their old name, Hembra
Genetics. Well, Hembra Genetics is now Gaslamp Seeds. Gaslamp will award seed packs to 5
lucky winners who are subscribed to the Shaping Fire newsletter. There's nothing else you
need to do to win except receive the newsletter, so go to shapingfire.com to sign up for the
newsletter and be entered into this month's and all future newsletter prize drawings.
I was a little delayed with getting this episode out, so while this is the January giveaway,
you'll actually do the drawing when I wake up on February 15th to give folks who are
hearing about it today a chance to sign up for the newsletter. I'll let the winners
know then.
You are listening to Shaping Fire, and I'm your host, Shango Lose. My guest today is
soil biologist, educator, and activist, Dr. Elaine Ingham. Dr. Ingham uncovered the soil
food web nearly four decades ago and has been pioneering research about soil food web ever
since. Widely recognized as the world's foremost soil biologist, she's passionate about empowering
people to bring the soils in their communities back to life. Be clear when I say that Dr.
Ingham uncovered the soil food web, because what I mean is she invented the soil food
web, or rather the soil food web understanding of nature, and then continued to research
it and teach it, even though she was getting aggressive pushback from the agriculture industry
which essentially made her an activist too, simply for trying to publicly describe how
soil actually functions. Dr. Elaine's soil food web approach has been used to successfully
restore the ecological functions of soils on more than 5 million acres of farmland all
over the world. Her professional scientific experience is long and impressive, and if
you want to know it in detail, check out the Wikipedia page about her. Dr. Elaine has also
established the Soil Food Web School to educate the next generation of soil biologists. The
courses offered have been designed for people with or without a science background, making
them accessible to individuals who wish to learn and to begin a meaningful and impactful
career in an area that will help to secure the survival of humans and other species.
I have wanted to invite Elaine to be a special guest on Shaping Fire for a few years now,
but decided to wait until I had enough understanding of soil biology to ask her questions that
would be of interest to you, the listener, and would be engaging for Dr. Ingham too.
As a Shaping Fire listener, you've learned soil science right alongside me the last 5
years. You're going to love today's episode, and Dr. Ingham says she does too.
Today's episode is not an introduction to the soil food web. If this perspective is
new to you, when you're done here, I recommend you jump over to YouTube for one of the many
videos that explain the basics of the soil food web model. Today's episode is a series
of discussion lines that have arisen from me actually using the soil food web insights
to grow cannabis, and my discussions with other regenerative growers.
During the first set, we discussed the use of indigenous microorganisms to optimize plant
resilience and the overlap between the soil food web and the water food web and what that
means for growing cannabis. In the second set, we talk about sterile growing environments,
beneficial insects as both garden defense and food web antagonist, and how to get cocoa
coir pots as biologically active as possible.
Finally, we finish the episode in set 3 with a discussion of the timely use of aerated
compost teas and compost extracts and bringing the soil food web techniques indoors for cultivation.
Welcome to Shaping Fire, Dr. Elaine.
I'm very happy to be here. This is going to be fun.
Yeah, I'm so glad to finally have you on the show. Many of us aspire to strengthen every
level of the soil food web in our garden so we can most effectively play its melody. This
often includes the use of incubated indigenous microorganisms known by most folks as IMOs.
But cannabis plants are not indigenous to many of the regions of the world where we
cultivate it. Are there ways to make the cannabis plants feel more at home in the environments
where naturally they never established themselves? How can we make non-indigenous plants that
we grow connect more fully with the local biology?
We're actually doing a really good job of doing that already. The damage that we do
to our soil when we till it, when we put out these salts, the inorganic fertilizers are
all salts, and that's definitely plain havoc with those microorganisms that might have
prevented cannabis from being able to grow in their particular system. So we're already
doing the things to a great deal that would allow or would select for cannabis. So as
human beings change things, we alter, we are making a better and better environment for
cannabis. So we're already making things better to grow cannabis because it is a plant
that needs somewhere between like a 0.5 ratio of fungi to bacteria, up to maybe 1 to 1 equal
biomass of bacteria and fungi. Then there are values that we're looking at. Does cannabis
need at least 135 micrograms of bacteria and fungi or can it be more than that?
Is it actually going to do better if we have a little more bacteria? So the bacteria are
up at 400 micrograms per gram, whereas the fungi are at half or even less than that and
will depend on the species or the subspecies of cannabis that you're growing as well. So
I think we're already doing everything necessary to grow cannabis all over the world.
Your answer is surprising and if I understand it correctly, disheartening because what I
think you just said is because we are eroding the strength of our soil globally, it has
less defense mechanisms and is therefore creating a wider environment for cannabis because we're
destroying the soil. Is that about what you said?
That's really basically what I said.
Gosh.
Yeah.
All right.
Great for cannabis growers, but not so great if you want to be growing grapevines or shrubs
or different kinds of the highly productive grass species, for example.
Yeah, or food that has nutrition and all the other things that we need to survive. Gosh.
So I'm going to slightly change the question then to tease out something else. So even
though we humans by eroding and degrading the soil are actually making it more appropriate
for cannabis, when we do bring cannabis plants into areas where perhaps the weather is something
that they're not used to or the indigenous microorganisms are not what they're used to,
even though there is eroded soil and so we're getting the pH and the parts per million that
might be more appropriate for cannabis growing, are there other things that we can do to decrease
weather and transport shock for plants? Because so often cultivators are moving their plants
multiple times from a nursery to a grow out greenhouse and then finally into the ground.
Absolutely. I think there would be things we could do to make it easier on the specific
plants in that process of dealing with a root system that's getting bigger and bigger and
bigger. What we really want to do is give it depth because properly grown out in the
real world, cannabis usually will broaden those root systems, will be in the soil, will
be a certain diameter from around the main stems, but then those roots tend to grow,
should grow down. They're looking for water that they have to have in the dry seasons
of the year. So if they've got proper structure built in the soil, if they have the bacterium
fungi present that will build that kind of structure, the protozoa, the nematodes that
will help to build that structure, then the roots of your plants will go down quite deep.
We see cannabis with root systems down at 12 feet, 15 feet, 20 feet, depending I think
on the cultivars, the type of cannabis that you're growing. So when we're thinking about
transferring from something that grew up in the small containers in the greenhouse, to
now we're going to put them into larger containers, it's not diameter of the container that you
want to think about, it's the height of the container that you're going to be growing
that cannabis in. Because we want to mimic, we want to have things be more like those
plants are used to out in the real world. And they have a drive to get those root systems
deep. I'm sure almost everybody is, when they've pulled up a cannabis plant and they look at
the bottom and they see the roots just going in circles against the bottom of the pot,
that is not good for the plant. You have developed, typically have developed an anaerobic condition
in those root systems, trying to escape, trying to get down and deeper into the soil. You've
made an anaerobic little cubby area that will grow diseases and pests incredibly well. Not
going to grow the right sets of microorganisms for the cannabis. Cannabis root systems obligately
aerobic. You've got to have oxygen in there or they're going to succumb to a number of
different stresses.
Clearly growing in the earth is best so that those roots can reach far and participate
in whatever's happening in the soil food web at that depth plus get their own water. Is
there anything that we can do as growers? Because so many of us grow in containers that
might be somewhere between 20, 50 or up to 300 gallon pots, but they still don't go very
deep. They usually expand out wider instead of getting deeper. Is there anything that
we can do to help the roots from becoming anaerobic at the bottom? For example, anything
as simple as making sure to use linen pots, which lets some air go through. Is there anything
that we can do out of that bad situation?
If we get the food web into that soil such that there's a lot of nutrient cycling, there's
a lot of protection, there's a lot of building structures so water is held right at the top
of that interface going down so the plant is getting all the things it needs from a
shallower pot, we could maybe reduce that stress. Trying some of this out and finding
out how wide does something have to be versus the depth that it's going. That's just research
that hasn't been done. I know a number of labs have said, oh yeah, we should do that,
but I haven't seen any data back. It's been a while since I've actually been growing any
cannabis. Just too many other things happening.
Totally. I like what you said about we will help the root system out by making sure it's
participating as much in the soil food web. Just briefly on the last episode, I spoke
with one of your students, Andy Marsh, and she was talking about biological inoculants,
not of particular nutrition, but of residents of the rhizosphere. Do you have any suggestions
for inoculating our soil with actual living beings instead of just nutrition?
That's really what we're talking about when we're discussing soil biology. It's the organisms
going, it's the living part of that soil that we're concerned about because it's the living
organisms, those things doing their jobs so you don't have to do them, is really what we're
trying to do. We want to understand the function of all these different microorganisms in the
soil. Most people have a hard time believing that there's that many species of bacteria
and species of fungi. In both cases, bacteria and fungi were up in the millions, hundreds
of millions of individual species, and they're different in different ecosystems. We want to
obtain a community of bacteria and of fungi and of protozoa and nematodes. We want them all to be
good guys. I know some people cringe when I don't use technical scientific terms, but I think it
makes more sense to say we want the beneficials that will help your plant grow. Where are you
going to go out there and find them? Find them for the biome that you're already living in.
Someday that cannabis plant is going to be planted outside and it's going to have to deal with
the conditions of a normal summer in whatever part of the world you're in. You want to make
certain there are the maximum protection from the subspecies of bacteria and fungi, protozoa,
and nematodes, and microarthropods, and earthworms, and anchitraids. I could keep going, but I
lose most people typically about in there. Wait a minute, I didn't know there were that many
different types. Yeah, they are. You need them all. Your plant needs them all to do the jobs that
you otherwise are going to get stuck doing if you don't have your willing organic workers in that
soil for your plant. We want to maximize diversity. How do you do that? We're going to have you
go out into the area around where you're living, where you're going to be planting the cannabis
for those cannabis that are going to display the particular flavors or tastes of the plant.
What all is going to be in that cannabis plant, you're going to want to maximize diversity.
You go out with your collection bag, and it doesn't have to be real large. It could be a little
ziplock sandwich size or quart size baggie. You're going to take two or three pinches of this area
right around this fungal mushroom. This looks like it could be really interesting. Let's put some
of that in there because that could be really beneficial. Let's go over here and take a couple of
teaspoonfuls and go over there. Every time you see variation, different plants, different
microorganisms, most people don't understand that a mushroom is individual strands of fungal
hyphae. The individual strands you cannot see with your eyes, but that mushroom you definitely will
be able to see with your eyes. You might want to make certain that you know who the good guy
mushrooms are and take samples from around their connection with the soil and leave alone the
things, the armillarias, the things that could be pathogens or pests. A little bit of studying up.
What are the good guys and what are the bad guys that you can determine based just on morphology?
What do they look like? You're going to be out collecting a lot of materials. Do you collect those
in the springtime or in the summer or in the fall? The answer to that is yes because it's diversity.
There'll be different sets of species that are awake and functioning at different times of the year.
You get them all inoculated into your compost. Let those organisms grow up that are beneficial.
We keep our compost piles aerobic because that selects for mostly just the beneficial microorganisms.
The disease causers, the problem organisms, they like to be there in the rootbound pot because it's
perfect with that low oxygen concentration. If we keep that soil well structured by bacteria and fungi
and protozoan nematodes and everything else, making hallways and passageways and building condominium
housing, building large hotels, building large structures in the soil so oxygen can move through very
rapidly so water infiltrates and gets held in that soil. You never allow leaching to occur because you need
all those nutrients either in a couple weeks or maybe in another month or maybe next spring.
We want to make sure we're holding on to all of these things by making sure we have a huge diversity of all
the organisms that grow in the springtime, all the organisms that grow in the summer.
They're fairly different what is actually growing and functioning, but they take over functions that somebody
else was doing in the soil, but they did the work better at 15 degrees Fahrenheit or 20 degrees Fahrenheit.
As you go through changes in temperature and moisture, oxygen concentrations, all of those things, you want to
make sure you have the organisms that will be there to do the jobs for you.
Making certain that you're inoculating indigenous, local things. It is just laughable to have somebody hand you
a jug of bugs and say, these are the best microorganisms we've ever found in the soil. What do you mean by that?
Who is regarding those five species in there as being the best according to what set of considerations?
Are they best at taking up carbon dioxide? Are they best at taking up nitrate? Are they the best at making ammonium?
What does your plant need? Cannabis needs a balance, pretty much an equal balance of ammonium and nitrate.
We want an equal amount of biomass of bacteria as a fungi.
When we get talking a little bit later, I'll bring up the subject of succession because that's going to be a big
determinant of what you're going to do with different kinds of cannabis to get the product that you want.
I have two follow-ups. I'm going to ask them at the same time because I have a feeling that you are likely to weave them together.
The first follow-up is, we're big fans of having biologically active compost piles here to pull from for all sorts of reasons.
I also know that my brethren in cannabis love to cut corners.
I can very much imagine cultivators taking the collected inoculant and instead of putting it into their compost pile,
instead just putting it right into their containers.
My first part of the question is, is there a specific benefit to inoculating the compost pile first, even though the process is going to take longer?
Is there a real extra win for having it be in the compost pile first?
Absolutely.
Second, after you do the collection, but before you do the inoculation, do you recommend just taking the collected matter
and just taking it over to your compost pile and just place it in there?
Or do you recommend an oxygen incubation with an aerated tea to build up the population first?
We mostly put the organisms directly into the compost pile because while we want active organisms,
we want to constrain the conditions in that pile so we're selecting for just the beneficials.
You don't ever want your pile to go anaerobic.
The instant you start to smell bad smells coming out of that pile or funky kind of ammonia smell,
the rotten egg kind of smell mixed together, how do you describe that?
But you know by smelling it that something's going anaerobic in there and that means you have to turn.
You need to get oxygen in there.
If you haven't gotten up to 131 degrees Fahrenheit for a full three days,
then you've got to kind of eek along because you really don't want to turn it until you've gotten that preventative kind of medicine
for the bad guys that are going to get killed by the heat.
We also want to make sure there's no anaerobic conditions.
So what you might do there where you can, this is smelling, it's only day two and I've got to wait until day three to turn it.
It hasn't been hot enough long enough to kill the human pathogens, plant pathogens, yada, yada, yada.
What you'll do instead is take like a PVC pipe or a metal rod, not a lot of thickness to the hole maker
and you're going to take that and push it down through your compost pile.
Pull it back up because that's going to leave a hole all the way down to the bottom of your compost pile,
bringing oxygen back into the system without turning the whole pile.
When you've gotten to over 131 degrees Fahrenheit or 55 degrees Celsius for three days,
then you turn with the pitchfork and get that all aerated up.
There's a very specific way we take the hot middle and put it on the bottom of the pile when you start to turn.
What was in the cold top part of the pile, it goes into the middle.
So that's the part of the pile that's going to have killing the disease causing organisms for part two.
Then the bottom part of the first pile goes on the top.
You always turn in the same fashion so you know everything in your pile has been in the hot middle
for more than adequate periods of time.
If you can't turn because of temperature considerations,
you get the PVC pipe or the metallic pipe and build yourself some chimneys.
How many chimneys? It depends on how fast you're getting hot.
This is where we always have people running into trouble unless they take the foundation classes
and learn how to make good compost.
We have hands-on classes that you can take as well as the virtual training that you get in the foundation courses.
You always want to learn how to turn.
You want to go through all of the...
Why do we look at the recipe for the compost?
We're selecting for those organisms that are going to best promote the plants that you're growing in that situation.
We always want to make certain that the compost doesn't have any diseases or pests.
You've got to go through that step because there is no other way to kill all of those bad guys,
especially if you've got manure of any kind.
Anything that's been around an animal for a short period of time or a long period of time,
there's too many pathogens.
You cannot be growing something that you might be lighting up and licking the plant material.
Surprise! It had a disease on it. Not good.
We want to take care of that problem before we ever put it out on our property.
Building compost is one of those things that...
My dad always said, learn from your mistakes, but if you can, learn from someone else's mistakes.
I'm a big proponent of people actually taking formal compost classes because a lot of the activity we can't see.
A lot of it is not intuitive.
You can destroy your own work in simple ways.
It really is something to actually take a class in.
The road to hell is with my good intentions.
Paid by good intentions.
When I first began studying the soil food web after hearing you speak,
I definitely got the impact of the model of understanding right away.
I started applying it and then encouraging it in others.
But then my mind was blown away a second time coming across folks talking about the water food web.
It's interesting because in your brain it's kind of like the same basic model,
but these were water loving creatures instead of soil loving creatures.
Some biology probably loves both.
I assume it would be a fallacy to treat them separately.
What I'd like to know is how do you think about the relationship between the water food web and the soil food web and how they may overlap?
Because you still want the same nutrient cycling.
You're going to have root systems down into the water.
I don't know why people always think that if your roots hit the water, you get to the water table.
Your roots can't go through the water.
Well, why not?
Do we keep pouring on our plants in order to get them to grow?
Yeah, it's water.
So what's so terribly wrong about water?
As long as you keep it aerobic, there is no problem.
And the root systems of your plants will go right down through whatever water is present,
get down into the sediments, and then the root systems go into the sediments,
and the sediments are just like your soil at a slightly higher percent moisture.
So you have to select for things that can deal with that high water content,
and there will be some species that you only find in, you know, like when you're growing rice,
huge component while that field is underwater,
you will have quite a bit different sets of microorganisms present.
As you dry that surface out, those microorganisms that require more than 50% moisture,
more than 75% moisture, they will all go to sleep.
They form spores.
They will be present next year.
So how do we get all the right sets of microorganisms back into the soil in a water system?
Well, we're going to make compost where we're going to have it pretty wet and soppy most of the time.
So you can do exactly what we do with terrestrial systems.
You can be doing with plants that are more aquatic.
So, you know, you just have to recognize the needs of your plant.
What does your plant do best?
Does it like it with the moisture fairly low, moisture kind of medium, or fairly, you know, we're going into the pond here?
And you're going to have to do some of that testing probably yourself because it's not something that,
in the world of understanding landscapes, we haven't really paid enough attention to this water factor.
How much water is normal?
It's normal to be at this level in the springtime and then it dries down a bit and then it's completely dry in just before harvest,
which makes things harvesting much easier.
So, yeah, pay attention.
It sounds like it's another argument for being sure to collect, you know, local indigenous microbes too,
because if you are collecting from many different locations on your parcel
and you are building them into your compost pile at different times of year,
it means that you're collecting them, for example, where I live, it rains for a vast part of the year,
but my growing season, we turned to drought.
And so if I want my soil to, you know, come into the drought season already being healthy
and then be able to make the transition to a drier environment,
that seems to suggest that I would want year-round microorganisms collected
so that my soil is, you know, jam-packed full of flexible microorganisms
that can play that on-off around the calendar where these folks go to sleep when these wake up
and then these other ones go to sleep and the other one.
And so we have this gentle seasonal back and forth.
And it's all part of the biodiversity we have to establish right from the very beginning.
One of my favorite things, and I'm probably going to paraphrase you poorly, so I apologize for that,
but one of the things that I found very inspiring when I first heard you speak
was you were talking about the beginning of the soil as like this threshold point
between the sky and the earth, and it all comes like right down there
to where we stand. And it really kind of shifted my perspective for how big these two halves are, if you will.
I'd like to focus on an inch and a half of the soil food web,
that inch and a half right above the soil.
So many cultivators choose to grow tiny, you know, one to three inch companion plants
with like a single leaf or two leaves to create a short, dense canopy
over the soil surrounding the cannabis plant.
We talk about using Dichondra repens a lot here on Shaping the Fire as an example of that.
The multitude of roots and the root exudates make for a rich and dynamic rhizosphere.
All those downward pathways of all those little plants create a place for the water to seep through
so that we can avoid becoming hydrophobic.
And all that exudate conversation is really great too.
My question for you is this. What sort of life happens in that little space
between the canopy, you know, an inch and a half, two or three inches above the soil
and the soil, that inch and a half of bioregion?
There's moisture held in there. Like who's living there?
And what biological processes are happening in that small area?
And I would really encourage you to start looking at some of your soils,
digging down and trying to find out where these different layers are.
When you're in an old growth forest, because you don't really have,
especially if it's not a very healthy forest,
you don't have anything that's going to mix that organic matter layer down into the soil.
And it's very harmful for most of our plants to not have some kind of mixing movement.
And that's again where the microorganisms are going to come into play
because they're going to be moving that organic matter as it's decomposing
and getting into smaller and smaller bits.
You're going to have microorganisms taking that away to build structure with.
And so it's not the top 1 to 1.5 depth.
You want to see that organic material moving down into the soil.
So that O horizon or the intermediate between the organic layer
and the first layer of true soil, where you've got sand, sand and clay present,
as well as the organic matter.
You want the root system growing down through all of that.
You don't stop, if you're a root, you don't stop there either.
So the root systems are going to keep on growing.
If your roots are stopping at 1.5 inches or centimeters into the soil,
you've got compaction, which is deadly when it comes to growing plants
that are going to have all of the genetic characteristics that we want.
Good flavor, strong stem, resistant to diseases and pests.
You've got to have normal soil where those root systems are going to keep growing straight down.
They don't usually stop.
If they're healthy, they don't stop at 1.5 inches.
So the roots themselves will be a part of this contingent of moving materials
from that organic matter layer down deeper and deeper into the soil.
Water moving along, taking the smaller particles down with it,
so that you develop a really good A horizon.
And of course, if you've got a really good A horizon,
then as you go deeper and all the small things stay up there at the surface of the soil,
the bigger chunks move down deeper into the soil, B horizon.
And then as you get deeper and lower than that mixture,
it's C horizon, which most soils people look at as being sterile,
which it absolutely is not.
Sterile.
How far down do the organisms in your soil go?
How far down do we see these bacteria, fungi, protozoa, nematodes, micro arthropods,
earthworms, inca trades, everything else?
So 12 miles.
That's how deep the soil really is.
Now your roots aren't going to be getting down there,
but all these really important factors are going on in all of that 12 miles of soil
that you've got below the interface with plants.
So if plant roots, how far, if you're looking at a Douglas fir,
how far down into the soil can the roots go?
As tall as a tree is above the surface of the soil, so below.
So if your Douglas fir is 200 feet tall,
the root system of the plant is going to be about 200 feet down.
So it's a great interface between the atmosphere and what it's doing
and what's going on in the soil and the soil below that.
So lots of things I could go off on, but yeah, I think that's probably complex enough.
If our focus for this aspect is to make sure that the organic material
that is decomposing on the top of the soil is finding its way down into the soil
to be moved around by the superhighways,
is this a good case for why we would have a companion plant on top?
Many people use the term cover crop, even though that's not exactly accurate for us.
But if we grow these small plants as companion plants
and they create a one or a two leaf canopy two inches above the soil,
it creates this zone where I imagine that there is going to be a lot of biological life
because there's moisture there and it's protected some from direct sun.
And what I imagine is that there are lots of organisms that are processing
the healthy compost that I put on top or anything I've collected around the area.
Anything that we put on top, the way it gets into the soil would be improved
if I have this canopy that creates this two inch area above the soil
but below the canopy where there can be active biology.
When you hear that, does that sound like nature?
Or is that just something that I think sounds great?
You've got it almost right.
And probably what you're not considering here again is compaction.
You need to have those understory plants that grow out
and they may only be an inch tall, two inches tall.
Depends on what your crop plant is, how tall your cover plants are going to be.
The ground cover is another, that's the word I was looking for a minute ago,
the ground cover and you don't want just one species, you don't want just two
because who's going to survive next spring?
We can't tell you what the weather is going to be, what it's going to be like
so we want to maximize diversity right there.
Keep some of the things that cause maximum diversity to stay in your system
from now until forever as far as you're concerned.
We want to prevent water drops falling from the sky
to directly impact on the surface of your soil
because you're compacting all of those airways and passageways
when that drop hits the surface of the soil.
It's the major compacting problem that we have in agricultural systems.
It's bad enough driving over your soil with a big machinery
but big machinery can be constrained to just two wheel rows.
Rainfall, how are you going to get it to fall in just one place?
Imagine the damage that would be done if it fell in just one place.
I never considered rain as a compaction action but it totally makes sense.
Now I understand better what you said earlier about the depth of the roots
where these short plants might be nice because they grow into this blanket
that protects it from compaction from the rain
but now I understand better that you're also saying
make sure you have a variety of plants that are going to have deeper roots
like radishes or something so that you've got a variety of root depths
and a variety of exudate conversation that's taking place.
Exactly.
Really when you start looking at how is it that having plants growing
on that surface, short low-growing plants,
they're continuing to have nutrient cycling going on all of the time
so if your plant ever suffers some harm,
the nutrient cycling is still going to be there.
They're still going to be hooked up to the below ground system of mycorrhizal fungi
because everything in this orchard, everything in your cannabis plot
should be connected below ground.
Maybe not some of the kales and the coal and those early successional plots,
the weeds, those plants won't have the roots.
They won't have the mycorrhizal connection but as soon as you get past that
where we're looking at fungal to bacterial biomass ratio
of upwards around 0.5 or greater, they're all mycorrhizal
and so everything's tied together.
We want the surface protected by the leaf material
because when that drop of water impacts on a leaf,
it pushes that leaf down and the water gently rolls off that leaf surface
and ends up in your soil.
So we've completely taken care of that compacting effect
and some of those nutrients are moving with that drop of water into your soil.
So there's lots of benefits in lots of ways that you've got this continuous cover.
Usually these ground covers wake up and start growing earlier than your crop plant.
Now think about when do you transplant your cannabis into the ground outside.
Well, it's not the day after the soil is no longer frozen
because most of the time none of us pay attention to how cold is the soil.
It's how nasty is it going to be when I have to be out there doing all this work.
And so it's going to be a month later.
And so you think of all that time where those understory plants
are getting the soil ready for whatever crop you're going to be putting in.
It's a little bit of, you know, you need to understand
what your particular crop requires in terms of fungal to bacterial biomass ratio.
You need to have that time to build the fungal biomass if you're lacking in fungi
or build the protozoan populations and the good guy nematodes
so that you've got maximum nutrient cycling.
All of the things are being held and stored and moved and built
just exactly the way they should.
So we want nice cover, not just here and there.
We want the best places where I'm seeing the best coverage
is where they have 20 different species of seeds that have been spread.
And you can see where this summer up comes these five species of ground cover.
But really you don't see much of the other ones.
But next year it's like none of the five that were really important last year
they're not even peeping their heads above because things just are not right for them.
And so you want to have something that's going to go,
yay, this is perfect for me.
And so you'll get five or six different species showing their heads
and then there's always those years where everything grows.
And it's spectacular when you look in your, you know,
in your garden is really what it looks like.
Because you've got the rows of the plant you're trying to grow for profit
and you've got all these understory plants that are just peeking through the blades of
and showing their heads so that the flowers are beautiful.
So lots of things to sit back and understand.
And we're still trying to figure out some of, a lot of these things.
You know, it's always interesting to try to figure out where does all this nitrogen come from?
We have a bumper crop amount of nitrogen in our soil.
But if you go and try to analyze, you know, soluble nitrogen,
total nitrogen, exchangeable nitrogen,
there's a missing part of the nitrogen cycle that we're not paying any attention to at all.
And so, you know, people always do calculations of,
well, you couldn't possibly keep these, you know, 40, 440,000 individual plants.
You couldn't possibly keep them alive and happy with really high levels of nitrogen in them
if you don't use inorganic fertilizer.
And yet, all of our plants have much higher levels of nitrogen
than the chemically grown plants.
So, you know, which one's going to give you better flavor?
Which one is going to give you more nutrition?
Which ones are going to taste better?
So there's some of this work that we've still got to,
Mother Nature has not yet revealed all to us.
We've got some more work to do.
What a great time to be a young scientist coming up into the system
where, you know, you've broken the idea of, you know, the soil food web
and that even though it seems obvious now, you know, that the soil is alive,
but now we also have got the analytical technologies to take measurements
and see what we're working with.
It's a great time to be coming into thinking about regenerative growing.
So we're going to take a short break and be right back.
You're listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is Dr. Elaine Ingham.
Without these advertisers, Shaping Fire wouldn't happen.
So please support them and let them know you heard them on Shaping Fire.
One of the challenges with buying auto flower seeds
is that often you'll have as many different phenos as you will have seeds in a pack.
That can be fun, sure, but so many varieties in one pack
is a sign of an immature seed line that hasn't been worked enough.
I prefer my auto flowers to be worked enough that each pheno in the pack
really captures the aspects that the breeder was intending.
This is why I recommend Gnome Automatics to my friends and listeners
who grow automatic flowering cannabis seeds.
Gnome Automatic seeds are not just crossed and released.
They are painstakingly sifted again and again,
tested in a wide range of conditions,
and taken to a level of maturity that each plant will be recognizable by its traits.
Traits that were hard earned so that you can have your best growth cycle ever.
Over the last 10 years, Gnome Automatics founder Dan Jimmy
has become a trusted breeder and he continues to pour his passion of breeding cannabis
into every variety he releases for you to grow.
Check out the Gnome Automatics Instagram at gnome underscore automatics
to see the impressive plants folks are growing.
You can score Gnome Automatic seeds in Feminized or Regular
at your favorite seed provider listed in the vendors section of their website.
Commercial cannabis farms across the country love growing Gnome Automatics
because of their consistency from seed to seed,
short grow times, THC percentages, and colorful bag appeal.
Farms interested in bulk seeds of more than a thousand
should reach out through gnomeautomatics.com.
While on the website, be sure to check out the Gnome Automatics shirts
and other merch section too.
If you want reliable seeds, hand-built from effort,
expert selection, and experience, choose Gnome Automatics.
Online cannabis seed distributors often seem to be all the same,
but Multiverse Beans constantly works to provide you with cannabis seeds
and a buying experience that you won't find elsewhere.
Multiverse Beans works directly with the breeders
to secure as many packs of your favorites as possible
so that they have your favorite beans long after others have sold out.
Some shops simply buy breeder minimums,
but I get messages all the time from breeders saying
some version of Multiverse asked to buy my entire run.
At multiversebeans.com you can find rare cannabis seeds
from night owl seeds, including the dark owl sub-label,
Mephisto genetics, square one genetics, robin hood seeds,
and ethos and so many others.
Multiverse also initiates projects with breeders
to secure exclusive packs that you simply won't find elsewhere.
Multiverse founder Paul Lal sees himself
not only as a curator of the best cannabis seeds available,
but also as a collaborator with breeders
trying to bring novel crosses to the market
that his customers are asking for.
Multiverse Beans also creates exclusive stickers
for their popular seed varieties that are available free
only when you order those seeds from Multiverse.
Check out their stickers like the badass recent slap
for Mothman by Gnome Automatics on Instagram at multiversebeans.
And finally the freebies.
As you'd expect, Paul sends quality freebies with every order.
And when you spend at least $150,
Multiverse allows you to choose your freebies
from their special selections.
You can get a 10% discount off regularly priced items
when you use the discount code SHAPINGFIRE,
all one word, at checkout.
Sign up for their mailing list to be eligible
for their monthly seed giveaway worth $250.
So go to multiversebeans.com now
for a buying experience you won't get anywhere else.
As cannabis regulations become more demanding
and consumers become more educated,
it is increasingly important to avoid the use
of chemical pesticides when cultivating cannabis.
Beneficial insects have been used for decades
by the greenhouse vegetable and ornamental plant industry,
and today many cannabis cultivators are moving
from sprays and chemicals to beneficial insects.
Copert has the beneficial insects, mites and nematodes,
microbials, sticky cards, and air distribution units
you need to partner with nature to defend your garden.
Whether you manage acres of canopy
or have a simple grow tent in your home,
Copert is ready to help answer your questions
and help you transition away from chemical sprays
towards clean and natural solutions.
Since 1967, Copert has assisted growers
in identifying pests and devising reliable solutions
while providing healthy insects and mites
that will protect your yield.
Since the 1990s, Copert has been a leader
in cannabis pest and disease control worldwide
and have highly trained consultants to assist you
in Canada and the United States from coast to coast.
With their global network of grower support,
Copert can help. Visit copert.com,
choose your country, and get detailed information.
That's copert, K-O-P-P-E-R-T dot com.
For the most up-to-date cannabis-related
biological control information,
you can also check their Instagram at copertcanada.
You know getting away from pesticides
is good for health and good for business,
then Copert is ready to help.
Visit copert.com today.
Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose,
and my guest today is Dr. Elaine Ingham.
So before the break, we were talking a lot
about the importance of encouraging
and supporting the soil food web
and making sure all of the different plants
in your garden are talking with each other
because indeed we are looking to support
a web of communication and transfer
and some nutrition and things like that.
So Dr. Elaine, many cultivators
aspire to the soil food web ideals,
but they still get hung up on keeping
sterile growing environments, like even outside.
Instead of focusing on biology and balance,
they intend instead for ideals like
zero pests present, like there's not
a single pest in my garden.
How do you teach the mindset of the soil food web
so that your students understand
the softer idea of biological inclusion
and balance instead of the absolutist ideals
of zero tolerance for anybody who isn't on my team?
Yeah, because it's what we were all taught
when we were in grade school, middle school, and so on.
Certainly in any microbiology class,
you know, what's the most dangerous thing
you're going to encounter today?
The door handle on the room
because everybody touches it going in and out.
Not really.
It's not like that's a special place
for disease-causing organisms to grow.
You're just inoculating a lot of really interesting things
on that door handle, but you're also
inoculating all of the beneficials.
So there is a balance there that you've got to think.
If you've got people with good,
decent, they've picked up their apple every day
or they've picked up some really good soil,
smelled it, they're working in their compost pile,
you don't have to worry about the doorknob anymore.
Every morning, go out there and wipe all of your
doorknobs with a really good handful of compost
that you know has got all of the really
beneficial organisms in it.
One of the mechanisms for why this is important
is that if you've got a sterile system,
there's nothing to stop the disease-causing organisms
if, perchance, they get inoculated.
And so, runs through your greenhouse,
all of the containers, all of the benches,
below the benches, all the little spiders
and all the cute little, buzzy little flies
that drive us all crazy.
Where did all of these aphids come from?
Where did these white flies come from?
Well, it probably came because you're being
too sterile about things.
You're not letting there be those things
that would wipe out those diseases and pests
before they ever got to a high enough concentration
that it would start bothering us as human beings.
So whenever we're looking to get rid of
a disease-causing organism, especially in a greenhouse,
is go in and look and see where might the spores
be hanging out.
And they're going to have a specific part
of the greenhouse, or if you're outside,
a specific part of the soil,
typically low oxygen, lots of dead bodies of things
and things for them to chow down on.
So those eggs or spores, when they hatch,
have all the food they need right around them.
So they can very quickly move into the next stage
of their life where those larval stages
are moving off someplace else,
and they need the unclean ecosystems
in order to thrive and have each one of those larvae
make it through to adulthood.
And then the mom and dad, they're flying around.
Every place they touch is going to be a mass
of these disease-causing organisms going out
on the surfaces of the above-ground parts
of your plants.
On the crown of your plants, quite often,
I'm sure some of you have noticed that
some of the larvae hang out right there
at the crown of the plant.
That's their favorite place,
and they're going to be going through
and killing parts of the root system,
which now are going to, of course,
be anaerobic and chock-full of diseases.
So sterility is not a good idea
when we're trying to prevent
exactly why we were spraying horrible,
toxic chemicals all through the greenhouse.
So we want to have all of these
beneficial organisms in there
so that when that disease-causing organism
is accidentally brought into your greenhouse
and somebody leaves the handprint,
we want to have those beneficial organisms
that look at those disease-causing organisms
and go, wee-haw, somebody brought lunch.
And they chow down and take them all out.
There's a direct conflict in many cases
with those kinds of organisms,
and the beneficials regard the disease-causers
as just a source of food.
You want those kinds of beneficial organisms
in your system.
So sterile, not a good idea,
because you can't keep human beings sterile.
And they're probably the biggest problem
in spreading diseases throughout a greenhouse
and in places that you'd never think about.
You know, like when people are standing at the table
and they're transplanting this plant from A to B,
and they take all the dead leaf material off,
they maybe see some dead roots,
and they pull that off.
What are they doing with that plant material?
They drop it on the floor next to them, right?
And now you've set up a perfect environment
for all of the white flies
and the microarthropods,
the little tiny flying critters,
perfect place for them to lay their eggs
and for the larvae to hatch out
and go through that whole stage right there
in the gravel under your feet.
And people don't think about
they've got to clean that too.
So what's the best way of cleaning
that floor material?
Apply some compost tea.
Apply some compost extract
that's got the organisms
that are going to take care of
all of those disease causers.
Yeah, you have to keep it aerobic enough,
so don't overwater.
But certainly when you look at what triggers
the plant's immune system,
its resistance to diseases and pests,
it's those microorganisms
that will trigger,
they'll send out to the plant
the information that
there's something bad happening here,
the hordes of, I don't know,
what should we call them,
purple devils are coming at us.
They need help from the plant,
and the plant needs to contribute
something to the upkeep
of those bacteria, fungi, protozoa, and nematodes
that will attack and consume
the diseases and the pests.
I can almost hear the greenhouse managers
listening to this being aghast,
because their normal mindset
is probably to spray or clean their floors
with either some kind of chemical sterilizer
or a 10 to 1 bleach,
depending on the variety of floor they have.
And now instead, we're talking about,
no, spray them with compost tea
because we want the entire environment
to be tied together biologically
so that it's prepared for any invaders.
And it makes total sense when you say it,
but it's also heresy
from the way things have been done in the past.
Yeah, because we didn't understand.
You're no stranger to heresy, though, Elaine.
What have I done all my life?
Because I'm mostly interested in the truth,
and I want to understand why things work.
And when we've had systems
that depend on pulling the wool over people's faces,
because that's what the chemical industry is,
they've been convincing us
to put out terribly toxic things
to kill particular sets of microorganisms
who then just develop resistance
to those chemical applications.
So now how are you going to deal with these problems?
The only way is biologically.
We've got to get the beneficials back out there.
We've got to keep it aerobic.
Yep, so that's a biggie.
We want to make certain
that we've got critters that eat those organisms,
and we want those things that will inhibit.
Yeah, definitely with toxic chemicals,
but it doesn't leave the area around the bacterium
or around the roots or the hyphae of the plants.
They don't just mindlessly go out
and apply massive amounts of toxic chemicals
far beyond what you actually need.
So let's give these organisms a chance
to show you what they can do,
where you will become accustomed.
Hopefully all of our children
will read stories about this time in life,
in the history of man,
and go, how could these people have been so blind?
Yeah, it's the power of the written word, isn't it?
It's amazing how much of that is...
I mean, sure, we need to learn best practices
for using nature to support nature
instead of chemicals to keep nature at bay,
but outside of the best practices,
so much of it is just trust, too,
because I was brought up to trust chemicals
and pharmaceuticals, for that matter,
and as we realized that that was a,
you know, philosophy that over time was bunk,
now we need to kind of like untrain ourselves
back towards regenerative,
which, you know, for the most part
is what we try to do here.
I've got another question about,
like, you know, the pest populations,
and it's kind of a corollary to this.
More and more folks in cannabis
are learning to effectively use beneficial insects
and trust them more,
just like we were talking about.
When I think about beneficial insects
through the lens of the soil food web,
I kind of imagine that dumping thousands
of beneficial predators of any variety
into a cultivation area
might throw off the balance
of the local soil food web.
Certainly, you know, target pest populations
will be reduced, right?
Whatever it is they eat,
but are there any other potential
soil food impacts that we should be aware of
when using beneficial insects?
Because we are super packing
a particular niche of the soil food web
with suddenly a lot of participants,
and I like the idea that it's just going to,
they're just going to eat the target pests
and then eventually go off
to find new food sources,
but I don't actually know that to be true.
And it's essentially true.
But it's like when you put
a huge amount of a predator
into the system,
it's going to go looking for prey,
and it will drop the species.
And what if those things
that just got eaten
by the beneficial insects,
what if they were what prevents
some other disease from attacking
the root system of your plant?
And so you're, you honed right in
on exactly what the problem is.
It's a density problem.
You've got to spread those beneficial insects
out throughout your whole bed.
You can't be applying them,
everything goes into the soil down here
and we assume they're going to spread
all the way down the end of your bed
or your agricultural field.
You want to be putting a few in
every place as you're going down the line,
just a few, because it takes a lot
of microorganisms,
a lot of the smaller critters,
to satisfy the hunger
of the predator that you just
dropped into the system.
And they were already competing
with each other in whatever container
you were keeping them.
And now you've let them loose
and they just go crazy
and knock the beneficial
prey group down to almost nothing.
So now you're looking
for potential diseases.
We need to, and so here's something
that we haven't quite gotten around to,
we need to have our microscope,
look at it and go,
here's the problem organism coming on.
And so I need more of,
you know, these bacteria,
I need more of these fungi
if I'm going to put in
more of these beneficial insects.
They're going to be eating
my bacteria and fungi,
and so I better make certain
that my bacteria and fungi
get a little bit of extra food
so that they can multiply
and maintain balance.
Either that or you're going to have
some real shifts and swings,
and lots of good nutrient
availability in the soil,
and all of a sudden,
because you put on the,
you know, the good guys
for keeping the disease-causing
bacteria in line,
you're also going to lose
your good bacteria,
and now there's not enough nitrogen,
phosphorus, sulfur, magnesium, calcium
available to your plant
around that root system.
So if we could only do it
one root at a time,
it might work,
but we're doing this
to the whole system.
We're putting it into
the compost itself
and letting that
predator-prey
balance itself out,
and so when I put
the compost out there,
it's already with adequate
amounts of bacteria or fungi
or proso or nematodes
or whatever as compared
to the predatory
organism that you put in there
to shut down
the disease-causing
microarthropods out there.
This idea of having
over-dense beneficial
insects is the first time
that I've ever wrapped my head
around the idea of actually
listening to application rates
because, you know,
I really had never thought
about, you know, using so many
that they would go
and start to be opportunist
on other necessary food
sources that are not the
target pest, and, you know,
it's true, you know, when I
reach out to my, you know,
my covert rep and,
you know, I don't have a big
garden, but I figure out what
I need with them and then
I get my
bugs and I'm like,
OK, the application
rate says this much,
and then I apply it to my,
you know, pretty small
garden, and then I look and
there's all this left in the
bottle, and I'll
cop to this.
I'm like, I've got extra.
They'll be more safe
if I add the rest.
And I've done that
every year.
And now I'm realizing
that it's actually working
against me.
And really what I should do
is hand those beneficial
insects off to a friend for
their garden.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Somebody else who can really
use them and we'll see that
benefit because you've used
them before.
You probably have
a certain amount of
the beneficials
present because they
leave eggs, they leave
dormant stages, and
they'll be up and moving
doing their thing.
You probably don't have to
add as much in the second
year.
So, you know, give it to
friends, give it to people,
and say, you know, tell me
how it works out for you.
And then pretty soon you
have another client.
I want to hit on the
pathogen topic
again. You were talking
about, you know, when
people drop necrotic
leaves on the floor
of the, you know, anywhere,
greenhouse or outside in
their garden or whatever.
You know, it's incredibly
common for cannabis
cultivators to defoliate
their plants to
open up airflow
towards the inside or to
remove yellowing leaves and
place them on the surface
of the pot.
And, you know, the
kind of bro science idea
is to, like, you know,
return the nutrients
in the leaf back to the
plant.
It'll be good for the plant
because I'm just returning
nutrition.
But on Shaping Fire
Episode 88, plant
pathologists, core
McGee suggested that all
those leaves should be
removed from the
cultivation area totally
to prevent the spread
of pathogens.
What are your thoughts on
this very common practice
of cultivators to put
the like even the healthy
leaves that they take off
onto the top of the pot
instead of, you know,
removing them from the
grow area to like the
compost or something?
Yep.
Well, if you have no
biology in your
dirt, then, yeah,
you have to do what she
said because there's,
you know, those leaves,
brown, you know,
diseased, happy,
you know, good leaf
material.
The diseases are going
to take those over and
serve to increase the
disease.
If you have no decent
biology in that soil,
if you're trying to grow
plants in dirt,
it's not going to work
very well.
But if you are using
a biological approach
and you've got these
really good organisms
in your soil,
then the way to tell
if it's working,
that you drop those
infected leaves on the
surface of your soil,
you should see by the
next day that things
are happening.
These leaves are getting
eaten.
They're being decomposed.
They're being turned
into soil as you
watch.
So how do you
know how long is it
going to take for
a small cannabis
leaf to decompose?
A couple of days.
How about a bigger one?
What if we've got a
real big, well,
it would help if you
shredded that up a
little bit and put it
on the surface of the
soil because then
in a couple of days
those materials would
be gone as well.
You might still see
the skeleton
of the major veins
for a couple more
days and you see the
green plant material
but it should all
decompose.
If it doesn't
decompose,
then Mother Nature
is trying to tell you
that you don't have
all of the biology
that you need in here.
Please go get your
microscope.
Go take a look at
what the biology
is in this area.
Why aren't they
here?
Because they should
be.
If you use good
compost, good
compost teas,
you should have all
of those organisms
in the soil and that
decomposition should
be overnight.
If it takes too
long a time,
you probably want to
try to figure out
who killed your
microorganisms in
this part of the
pile or in this
part of your
growing system
or greenhouse.
Quite often we
discover the places
where your neighbor
sprayed something
and that spray blew
into your
operation
and so right here
we're not seeing any
decomposition because
we got glyphosate
in here and that
killed your organisms.
Well, it's not going
to take that much
trouble for you to
go get a little bit
of your compost and
sprinkle it over that
area and make sure
that the decomposition
comes along right
away and
then you're good
to go.
So we have very
simple solutions
to some of these
quite complex
problems that
other people have.
It's interesting to
tease out the
differences in
perspectives of
scientists because
I can see very
clearly now that
Cora offered that
opinion because
she works in
a fusarium
laboratory greenhouse
using sterile
soil because they're
studying fusarium
and so for
her she doesn't have
the strength in
her growing system
of a very active
living soil because
that would get in
the way of their
measuring things
right and ensuring
it.
So it's always
interesting to be
able to tease that
out because so many
people in cannabis
they will argue
well this specialist
thinks this and this
specialist thinks that
and one of them has
to be wrong and
I'm always like you
know you really
only, you've only
learned that kind of
like at a t-shirt
quote level you know
like you really need
to understand what's
behind that.
So I think that's
one of the things
that I've learned
is that you need to
understand what's
behind what they're
thinking before you
get all evangelist
about it or especially
angry about it.
Yeah and you know
ready to chew somebody
up one side and down
the other which is
not a fun thing to
do.
When if they just
took a step back
viewed the system
and realized what's
actually going on
you know we aren't
going against the
principles of
chemical agriculture
but we're
going against the
principles of
chemical agriculture
and we're not
going against the
principles of
chemical agriculture
we're just paying
attention to what
mother nature has
already put in place
and mother nature
has been working in
these systems well
been working on this
planet ever since
rooted plants arrived
on the planet which
was a billion years
ago.
Mother nature has
had a billion years
to figure out these
interactions to keep
all of these wonderful
plants alive and
functioning.
If she didn't work
then we would be in
serious trouble.
We wouldn't have
these plants.
So I think that's
one of the things
that I've learned
is that we have to
have these plants.
So we've got to learn
the messages from
nature.
We haven't figured
them all out yet.
So you know please
come work in the lab
with us for a while
and discover all of
these things and then
you too can get your
name in lights.
So you know we're
big fans of living soil.
I mean you and I
both personally but
also like shaping fire
the program we talk
primarily about living
soil.
We don't talk a whole
lot about about hydro
and we don't talk
about hydro and
we don't talk about
hydro and we don't
talk about hydro and
we don't talk about
hydro unless it's you
know a special water
food web kind of hydro
set up but using a
blend of cocoa and
Pete is wildly popular
in cannabis cultivation
at the moment
especially like bagged
cocoa and Pete with
often with you know
preloaded with nutrients
and but it isn't soil
right and the biology
of these pots seems
like it would be
significantly lacking
in soil food web
biology that makes
plant living in soil
thrive right because
they don't have the
sand silt and clay and
organic material in
them.
What are your thoughts
like how do you how do
you teach this idea of
the threshold between
using soil which has
got you know sand
so clay organic material
versus using car and
Pete with with nutrients
because they both grow
plants and people are
very satisfied with
their cocoa plants but
I feel like they're
leaving some taste and
pest resistance and
resilience and health
like like on the table
because they're choosing
like a half step and
not going all the way
to living soil.
What are your thoughts
on these these cocoa
Pete mixes cocoa and
Pete probably need to
be sterile you know this
is one of those
situations where it
probably because you've
got the material in a
plastic bag sealed and
if there's any active
organisms in there
they're going to start
growing on all that
great organic material
in there and your bag
is going to puff up and
explode so they have to
have used some kind of
toxic material in order
to kill off the
organisms in that Pete
and coconut core.
Could it just be like
heat or pressure or
does it know it would
be it depends on exactly
what they're set up to
do so you know one way
or another they're
denaturing it right
they're exiting that
from the system they're
making certain that
they're nothing's
growing in there so
now when you add your
organisms say in a good
compost you're going to
see some initial lag
before the organisms
really get going and
often if the
concentration of that
toxic material was
really high you won't
see any microbial
growth and therefore
you're not getting
what you put the Pete
and coconut core in
there to do which is
provide a food resource
for the microorganisms
that you want to
help your plant.
When we get into an
understanding of what's
the difference between
soil and dirt.
Dirt is just the
mineral materials so
the sand the silt the
clays are produced
by weathering and
that used to be the
biggest thing that
could start breaking
down the boulders
and the parent material
and the rocks and
etc into sand, silt and
clay but as soon as
microorganisms came
along it's the
microorganisms that do
that decomposition of
the rocks, pebbles
everything else and
that's what's producing
sand, silt and clay.
So very specialized
niche you don't need
many of them because
they're not really going
to be helping your
plants along but
mother nature needs to
have them out there so
we can go ahead and get
those nutrients.
So I've defined dirt
just the mineral component.
When you're talking
about soil you have to
add and this is
according to the work
of Hans Jani one of
the fathers of soil
science.
He defined soil very
clearly as being the
mineral component, the
sand, the silt, the clay
but you also have to
have organic matter in
order to feed your
microorganisms and then
you have to have the
beneficial microorganisms
the bacteria, fungi,
protozoa, nematodes at
the very least and
then more microarthropods,
macroarthropods, spiders
and all those things
also play into a really
good well-rounded soil.
So that's the difference
between those two things.
The mix that you
talked about is just
food, organic matter.
That's all that's going
in especially since they
had to destroy the
biology on that organic
material in order for it
to sit happily on the
shelf in the greenhouse
in the store wherever
they're storing it.
So we want to make
certain that we get that
planting material out and
mix it with our compost
making sure that the
compost isn't killed by
the toxic chemicals that
were used to kill
everything in that
organic matter.
So I'm going to take it
one more step and put a
little sharper edge on it
and the reason I'm doing
this is because so many
newer growers ask me about
cocoa peat mixes and I
don't want to repeat
inaccurate or incomplete
information.
So I want to take it one
more step.
Let's say that the person
is using a cocoa peat mix
that has been denatured
or sterilized with heat
or pressure and so we're
not talking about residual
toxins and then the folks
bring it home and they
fill their container
with the cocoa peat blend
and then because they want
to capture some active
biological activity
they'll pour compost teas
in there and many people
have the idea that now my
preferred substrate that I
like to use now has
microbe life in it because
I just poured my tea in
there and I've always
resisted this idea after
Jeff Lowenfeld kind of said
it real easy.
He said it's not living
soil if worms aren't living
in there and that generally
doesn't apply to
or that's not going to
happen in this kind of
cocoa peat mix I'm talking
about.
So what are your thoughts
on starting with a
non-toxic but sterile cocoa
peat blend and then adding
compost teas?
Does that get you there?
It certainly should,
especially if that compost
that you use to make the
extract and then the tea,
if it has the spores as
well as any of the dormant
stages washed off that
leaf material, that compost
material and into the water
that you're now going to
inoculate on the peat moss
and core.
It's always a question of
how much.
You don't want to overdo
because that's a really
strong food resource and
you might have such a
rapid growth of
microorganisms in your
beds now that it's
anaerobic.
So you started from zero,
yeah.
Because you now let this
goodly amount, maybe too
much.
How do you determine
what's too little and
what's too much?
We often encourage our
students to do a little
bit of testing in small
containers.
So take a handful of
your compost, take a
handful of the peat
and core mixture and
mix it all up.
Now put some of your
compost tea in there at
the concentration that's
the same as outside and
watch and see what's
happening.
And if you come by the
next morning and you go,
what is wrong with the,
there's a smell in here,
where's that coming from?
It smells like someone
vomited.
And you realize that
that's your little
container of core and
et cetera.
You put in too much
biology, that's too much
food for them.
So crank down the amount
of compost that you're
putting in with all those
great organisms, reduce
it by half and see if you
don't get a better effect.
You don't really want to
be experimenting with
something where you just
put your valuable plants
into and the next morning
it's, oh surprise, how
dead is that plant going
to be?
So that's the care that I
would want to have people
take, get that microscope
out, take a look at the
biology that's present.
As soon as you've mixed
everything together and
then 24 hours later take
another look and see that
everything has just gone
gangbusters and it's
floor to ceiling bacteria
squished into small places.
Not what we want.
That's too rich for your
plants.
So back off.
So it sounds like if I
were to kind of tie this
all together into a quickie
best practice, it would
be if you prefer to use
cocoa and peat and make
sure that they are
denaturing from something
non-toxic like pressure or
heat and then once you get
it to your house and you
want to add biology to it,
go ahead and use your
compost teas but start slow
and low so that you don't
push it too far too fast.
And I would think that I
would want to encourage
people to also use a
variety of teas and worm
casting extracts and things
like that so you're
continuing to add variety
to the pot in slow amounts
as you go and it won't
ever become living soil
but if you've chosen
cocoa, this is going to be
your best way to also have
an active biology.
Yeah.
And for me it's still a
compost because the core
and the peat moss,
those are just foods for
your microorganisms so
you're going to have to
replenish that food or
maybe as you're taking a
little bit of compost,
you have a little bit
left over, spread it out
on the field so you get a
little bit of the sand
silk clay mixed in.
That's interesting, I
never really considered
coir of food and as it
degrades I can see how it
would be.
I've always kind of thought
of it as akin to styrofoam.
Yeah, nope, it's definitely
a carbon source.
And your fungi need that.
Bacteria don't like it much
because bacteria have a
carbon and nitrogen ratio
typically down around 10
carbons for every one
nitrogen which means all
bacteria are desperately
in search of nitrogen and
they get all the carbon
they could possibly ever
use and they blow it off
as CO2 so they are not
the organisms we want in
our soils if we're trying
to sequester carbon.
You want to get the fungi
growing because fungi have
a C to N ratio of up
around 100 to 1 and so the
fungi will take all of that
extra carbon and put it
inside its empty fungal
tubes, the empty hyphae,
and that prevents
microarthropods from being
able to eat the fungus.
So it's a really good way
to put things away in a
very safe place for a very
long period of time.
So if you're ever thinking
of carbon sequestration,
keep that in mind.
Right on.
I'm really grateful that
you went down that path
with me because I'm much
happier because historically
my cocoa friends,
I kind of make it a habit
to ask them hard questions
about the biology and instead
of being a jerk like that,
I can go to them like,
oh, do you know Dr. Elaine's
best practices for this?
Here, let me support you
in your chosen way.
I think that's a much better
way to interact with my friends.
Yeah, I just, you know,
why are they taking the peat moss?
There's so many other good
sources of food for the
microorganisms right around
you in your natural biome,
in the habitat you're in.
Why buy something like peat
moss that's destroying an
ecosystem someplace and using
that as food for your
microorganisms?
Why not, you know, well,
there's lots of other places
where you could get waste
organic matter and as long
as you keep in some eye on
how much banana peel and
how much oats and how much
of, you know, what are your
kids eating and you're putting
in the garbage, dry it out
every night.
There are dryers that you can
buy that are very inexpensive
and then you just, when you
finish drying it down, you
just crunch everything up and
put it in a bag in the
refrigerator and so you can
make your own peat moss.
So, while peat certainly has
a use as a source, most of
the time I'm hearing people
say that they like the peat
in the mix because it retains
water and it helps kind of
like balance the water that's
in a container. Is there
something else that you
prefer to peat to help kind
of stretch out a watering and
kind of help regulate how wet
the pot is or rather that
will sustain the watering a
little longer in a balanced
way?
Yeah, you want to get the
particles in the whatever
you're, like my example of
the food, waste food in your
kitchen and you dry it down
and you grind it up and now
you take it out of wherever
you're storing it because if
it's completely dry, you
don't have to worry about it
and take that out now and
how much water will that
dried material be able to
hold and usually it's quite
close to peat moss. So I
kind of think of those kinds
of materials because it's a
diversity, you've got some
potato, you've got some
banana, you've got, you know,
what else did your kid not
eat, broccoli, cauliflower
and you dry them down and
now how much water will it
take to wet that back up and
I think you'd see it was
very close to the peat moss.
Thank you for that. I've
only ever thought about those
scraps as a food source and
not as a water holding
capacity. Yeah, totally. So
all right. So we're going to
go ahead and take our second
short break and be right back.
You are listening to Shaping
Fire and my guest today is
Dr. Elanium. One of the
reasons why no-till cannabis
growing is so valued by
farmers is because the
mycelium networks in the soil
remain established from year
to year and we know these
fungal networks are essential
because they are the
nutrient superhighways that
extend far and wide in the
substrate to feed your
plants. The trouble with
growing in new living soils
or blended cocoa substrates
is that it takes most of
the plant's life just to
create these mycelium
highways. Dino-Myco
Endomycorrhizal Fungi
Inoculant reduces that time
and gets your plant eating
a wider array of nutrients
faster and it's three times
the concentration of the
other popular brand in the
US at 900 propagules per
gram of two fungal species
selected specifically for
cannabis cultivation.
Dino-Myco is the result of
30 years of research and
trials at the Volcani
Agriculture Research
Institute in Israel. It
has also been vigorously
trialed by cannabis and
food growers across the
US. Dino-Myco is now
available at grow shops and
on Amazon in the United
States. I love using Dino-Myco
to both speed up the growth
of the mycelium networks in
the soil but also as a
biostimulant to make clone
cuttings more virile. You
can see side by side
showing the comparative
growth on their Instagram
at Dino-Myco. If you demand
reliable growing results
and appreciate the
importance of an active
root zone in creating a
thriving plant, I
encourage you to check out
Dino-Myco.com and use the
store locator to find out
where you can get yours.
That's D-Y-N-O-M-Y-C-O
dot com. Shaping fungi
Shaping fire listeners can
get 10% off any size of
Dino-Myco on Amazon or
Dino-Myco.com by using the
discount code SHAPINGFIRE
one word, no caps. Whether
you are starting with new
beds or pots or if you want
to add some zing to tired
soil, choose Dino-Myco to
maximize your plant's
potential. Dino-Myco
Endomycorrhizal Inoculant.
There are so many seed
banks nowadays that you
really have options in who
to choose. Not only that,
if you pick the wrong seed
bank, you could be in for a
really sketchy ride. And
that's only one of the
reasons I recommend Gaslamp
Seeds to my friends and
listeners who are looking
for a seed bank. You
probably already know
Gaslamp Seeds as Hembra
Genetics. Hembra recently
changed their name to
Gaslamp Seeds. Gaslamp
Seeds is not just another
seed bank. Gaslamp is a
female-operated boutique
cannabis genetics provider
that only sells thoughtfully
curated seeds from the top
names in cannabis breeding.
With over 60 breeders and
over 1,000 strains to
choose from, you will
certainly find something
you'll love. Gaslamp
Seeds has something for
everyone with over 650
feminized strains, 300
regular varieties, and over
200 autoflowers to choose
from. Names you know you
can trust like Compound
Genetics, Humboldt Seed
Company, Night Owl, In
House, Fast Buds, Gnome
Automatics, and Ethos. And
we both know that there
are other seed banks who
will take your money but
have no customer service.
I invited Gaslamp to
advertise on Shaping Fire
after hearing so many good
stories about them from my
friends. They have A-plus
customer service with
lightning-fast response
times. In most cases,
Helene and Kaitlin will get
your order out the same
day you place it. Most
seed banks are simply not
this organized or
interested in getting your
seeds to you so fast. But
Gaslamp Seeds cares. You
even get free seeds with
every order. Helene and
Kaitlin get it. They have
been in the cannabis
growing scene for over a
decade. Want some extra
freebies? Use the code
Shaping Fire, all one word
at checkout and they will
give you an additional set
of Gaslamp provided
freebies. That's an extra
$30 in free seeds. Buy
seeds from good folks who
will send you great seeds
reliably every time. Visit
Gaslampseeds.com today.
That's Gaslamp Seeds.
For years, organic
cultivators have been
looking for a peat moss
replacement. Peat moss has
long been the go-to soil
amendment for water
retention and container
growing, but organic
growers are recognizing now
that peat moss is an
unsustainable resource and
the mining of peat bogs
destroys wetland habitats
and releases sequestered
carbon. But peat moss
works so well that many
have continued to use it.
Now there is finally a
revolutionary replacement
for peat moss that provides
better benefits while being
a sustainable choice.
Pit moss sounds and acts
like peat moss, but
instead of being mined from
fragile ecosystems, is
actually made from
upcycled organic paper and
cardboard headed for
landfills. Pit moss is
excellent at retaining
water in your substrate and
creating air pockets and
tiny living environments
for microbes. Pit moss
instantly increases
aeration, nutrient
absorption, and water
conservation too.
Carefully and locally
sourced, pit moss is the
result of decades-long
research into the use of
recycled paper fibers.
Pit moss is lightweight
and easy to use, and
pit moss is inert, so it
won't change your pH.
Available in a range of
preparations including a
nutrient-enhanced blend and
an organic soil conditioner
with no added nutrients.
Pit moss is also available
as an animal bedding for
horses, chickens, and
small animals. You can save
15% with the discount code
SHAPINGFIRE, one word,
no caps, when shopping on
pitmoss.com. So go to
pitmoss.com now to learn
more. That's P-I-T-T-M-O-S-S
dot com. Growing healthier,
stronger, more sustainable
plants. Pit Moss.
Welcome back, you are
listening to Shaping Fire,
I'm your host, Shango
Lose, and my guest today is
Dr. Elaine Ingham. So Dr.
Elaine, you know, in
regenerative farming we do
our best to mimic nature
itself, to support it, and
you know, use nature to
repair itself. Does that
make a case for cultivators
to emphasize compost
extracts over aerated
compost teas? Because, you
know, burgeoning, incubated
populations of oxygen-loving
microbes are pretty unlikely
to occur naturally in the
soil, while compost extracts
really more effectively
biomimic what happens in
nature by seeping into plant
material and then seeping
through it as we find in
nature. So how should we
wrap our heads around that?
It's one of these cases of
it depends. You have to
take a step back and look
at what you want as the
outcome of applying these
different materials. So,
for example, with a compost,
you're going to put it down
someplace that needs the
organic matter as well as
the organisms replenished
in that soil. And so
typically right down the
furrow or right around the
trees in an orchard or
something, you know,
shrubs or blueberries,
whatever. When we're looking
at compost tea, that's
really the organisms as
they typically exist in our
close, the closest we ever
come to making soil. Those
organisms we want to extract
at the concentration that
you need to put into your
system to get the biology
back up to where it belongs.
So when we're going through
succession and we're trying
to understand that early in
succession it's strictly
bacterial, midway through
succession it's 50-50
fungi, bacteria. When it's
in an old-growth forest,
it's 100-1000 times more
fungi than bacteria in the
system. And so understanding
that we are going to extract
the compost and apply it
as that amendment of
everybody's going to be
asleep normally, that is
supposed to be asleep at
that time. Anything that's
supposed to be happening now,
that's already happening in
the compost. So when you do
the extraction, these
organisms go out, hopefully
more or less in the balances
that we want to see. So we'll
take a look using our
microscopes to determine if
what I'm putting on is
strictly bacterial, and that's
going to help those early
successional systems that we
probably don't want because
early successional systems
are going to be mostly
weeds and things that aren't
crops. They're not really
anything that farmers want
to see. If we improve that
fungal component, then we're
going to be putting on an
equal biomass of fungi and
bacteria, and we're selecting
for the more productive plants
in the system, grasses and
vegetables, those kinds of
plants. As we go over the
edge into a fungal-dominated
system, and now we're
promoting the growth of
shrubs and trees, the higher
in that successional process
up into the old growth system,
we're going to be just pushing
fungi like crazy. So how much
biology do you need to be
putting out, and of what type?
So answering those kinds of
questions, if we've made a
compost tea, extracted the
organisms from the compost
into a liquid form, because
it's way easier to apply a
liquid than it is to apply
that solid material, we're
drenching right around the
base of all of the plants that
we are concerned about, that
we want to get growing and
making sure that that fungal
to bacterial ratio is what it
needs to be. So typically
that's what we're going to be
applying. We'll let that do
its thing for about a week,
and we'll go back and take
another sample and look at
what's happened in that soil.
Has the biology improved? And
if we're trying for something
that's equal biomass, fungi,
and bacteria, are both the
bacteria and fungi getting
higher and higher in value?
That's what we want to see.
So we're constantly checking.
What if you see the place that
you were hoping for both
bacteria and fungi to grow,
and the fungi are just taken
off like crazy? Well, that's
not good for the plant we're
trying to grow. Our plant needs
equal biomass. So we'll go back
and we'll develop like a
compost tea, where we're going
to be putting in bacterial
foods. So we're getting the
bacteria up to where it's going
to equal what's going on with
the fungi. And so then that
gets applied. Well, what if it
was the other way around? Well,
then we would put in foods that
would improve the fungi instead
of the bacteria. So we have
these tests along the way to
make sure everything's going the
right direction. If you don't
have a microscope and you put
things on, you're just crossing
your fingers and hoping that
Mother Nature is going to be
kind to you. And you know,
Mother Nature, I think, has a
not-so-wonderful attitude about
human beings, because we have
not been doing nice things to
her work on this planet. And so
we've got to fix this and get it
back to where it needs to be.
And so here you have all of the
tools that you need to have.
Now, with a compost tea, in
general, the reason why we would
be making a compost tea is
because we've got to up the
amount of bacteria or fungi.
We also, when we're looking at
the above-ground part of the
plant, the form of putting the
biology back out there is going
to be as a compost tea, because
we want to look and see what's
going on. If everything's going
just fine, we probably would put
out something that was equal
biomass, fungi, and bacteria for
any tree that's out there. Well,
you do want to pay attention to
your soil, because when you apply
the tea to the foliage, you're
also going to be getting some of
the compost tea on the ground.
So you've got to be looking at
what's going on in the ground.
You've got to be looking at
what's happening in the foliage
so that you determine what kind
of tea are you going to be
making, what kinds of foods are
you going to be adding into that
system. So I mostly only use
compost teas if I've got disease
causing problems in the foliage.
And then it's strictly a foliar
spray. I'm not drenching it on
the soil at all. And so we
typically get rid of those
diseases very rapidly. If you can
get out at the beginning of the
growing season, you know that
there's a particular disease that
this orchard or these plants are
very likely to have problems.
They have, you know, the growers
are saying, you know, every year
we've been applying these
toxic chemicals and the toxic
chemicals just aren't doing the
job anymore. What are we supposed
to do? Well, you come along and
we'll put the compost tea out
there. And it does a very good
job on dealing with every disease
organism. There's several recent
papers in the scientific
literature showing that if they
put a good compost tea out, that
they can deal with Fusarium. No
problem there. You know, when we
are dealing with different, you
know, like Dutch Elm disease, no
problem there. We've got that one
figured out. So in some cases, we
may have to go into the plantation
or into the agricultural field and
figure out how to get rid of a
disease by applying in the foliage.
And most of the time we get it
figured out after, you know, just
a couple weeks. What we need to
do to give constant protection to
the plant. And remember that it's
not just the organisms you're
putting out. It's the fact that
you're getting nutrient cycling
going again in the root system.
You're making certain that that
plant has all the nutrients it
needs to express the disease
protection, to express that
resistance to diseases and pests
and problem organisms. So it's a
whole system working together.
And so hopefully you can see why
it's a depends kind of answer.
Yeah, it is a depends kind of
answer. And I want to focus on
one thing you said because
perhaps I misunderstood. I
believe I heard you say that you
really only use compost tea if
there is an imbalance in the
plant. And then if you do use it,
you use it as a foliar and not
as a root drench. And if I heard
you correctly, my question is
this. If it's important for us
that the plant has the nutrition
it needs to remain robust and
have an active rhizosphere, so
everybody's communicating and
trading and the plant's getting
what it needs, if I'm not at it
adding more nutrition and active
biology via a compost tea, is
the nutrition that you're
referring to simply amendments
that you have added in advance
before the life cycle of the
plant?
Well, I was trying to go
through the succession of
treatments that we usually do
in trying to deal with these
large number of things.
I see. It was only in that one
case that you wouldn't use a
root drench. You would use it in
other cases.
So, yeah. When you first go out
and take a look at what's in the
soil and you go, oh my gosh,
the only thing I find here are
bacteria and they are really not
very good bacteria because that's
all that can grow with the toxic
chemicals and the inorganic salts
and all this tillage. It's the
only thing that's surviving. And
so our first applications are
going to be compost. If you
don't have enough organic matter
in your soil to grow your
microorganisms, and that cutoff
is 3%, so one of the biggest
things we'll have to do when
we've got those kinds of problems
is get out there with more organic
matter. Well, guess what is in
your compost? It's organic matter
and organisms, so get it out
there. So we'll come back two
weeks later and we may go in
furrow at that point where we're
putting the compost tea down in
furrow, but we want to make
certain that we've got the
balance right. So here we are,
we've put the compost down if we
need to and a week or two weeks
later we'll come back and take
another look at the biology and
make sure it's getting going in
the right direction. And then
that determines for us what's
still missing. And so what do we
have to, what kind of compost are
we going to use? We're going to
be extracting these organisms to
put into the soil as a drench
going along the row. And we may
have to repeat that once or twice
before we can get the balance of
the microorganisms back up to
what it needs to be. And then
we're going to really turn our
attention to what are the
diseases that the client has
shown are problems. And so now
we're going to determine the
compost tea that we're likely to
have to apply because of, you
know, is it a, you know, there's
too many diseases for me to
mention, but based on this
disease we're going to make a
compost tea that will very
strongly suppress those diseases
that are strictly foliar. If it's
a root disease we would probably
go back to drenching the soil or
maybe if it's a really specific
part of the tree that is showing
disease symptoms, and conifers
are much more likely to behave
in that fashion. We'll inject the
compost extract into the soil
around that infected root and
kind of hope that that takes care
of the disease in that root. You
know, if it doesn't, it's going
to kill that plant and when should
we take it down now or try to
baby this one very sick tree?
Should we take it down? Your
client is the person who's going
to make that call.
I understand. Thanks for breaking
that out a bit more. It's
interesting how any conversation
about, you know, for somebody
who's taking their soil seriously
and thinking about varieties of
compost tea, it always comes back
to microscope skills. It really
does. It's like, you know, for a
decade we were trying to
encourage cannabis growers to get
soil tests, right? Even though
they were afraid to send their
soil in and because people were
generally hiding and they didn't
want to send in soil tests,
eventually it got safe enough to
send in soil tests and such. And
so, you know, people are pretty
well established on the
importance of a soil test, but
right on those heels is basic
microscope skills so that you can
understand what's going on in
your soil and your compost.
Yeah, and it's easier to do the
microscope work yourself rather
than sending it off to a
laboratory where you're not quite
sure what kind of methodology
they're using to extract the
soluble N, the total N, the
exchangeable, all of those
different things. And, you know,
people hand me soil chemistry
reports and, you know, it's got
like a column of numbers behind
titles like phosphate, sulfate,
things like that. And it's like,
this is meaningless. You've got
to know what extraction agencies
they've been using.
What the context is for the
numbers, yeah.
Yeah. And so, yeah, it's really
easy to find that information
that's important and what do you
have to do to get this plant back
into a really healthy condition.
A lot of times I find that
chemical analysis isn't much help.
Yeah, and we're working on trying
to really figure that out for
people so that there'll be a
publication coming along that
really helps them integrate what's
going on with the nutrients from
what the biology is doing as well
as having some of the soluble and
total nutrient values in the
system. Help people really figure
out what they're doing.
Excellent. Well, we'll look
forward to that report. This next
question I think is a lot simpler
than the last couple. You know,
it's really common towards the
end of a bloom cycle in cannabis
for growers to stop water before
harvest day. And my mentor did
that and he said, well, it's like
a tomato plant. We're letting it
know it's at the end of its
season and we want to decrease the
total moisture volume in the plant
so it's a little easier to dry.
And I'm like, eh. But in my
thoughts it's always been I would
want to be watering my soil
biology all the way through
harvest because without water I'm
going to start losing my stable
balanced microbe life as they
start going to sleep. And then
that really, really tells the
plant that it's the end of the
season and that perhaps it's
time for molds to take over to
recycle the plant. So I really
want to keep, I think I want to
keep my microbiology strong and
moistured right up to harvest
day. But I certainly am willing
to be inaccurate. So what are
your thoughts about this common
practice to stopping watering
plants in containers like a week
before harvest? I don't think
it's really going to do the
microorganisms in your soil any
harm. You're getting them ready
for the harvest period being
gone. So these organisms are,
have been of course building
aggregate structure in the soil
around the roots to hold on to
water. And so if anything what's
happening is you're getting the
plant to go deeper, put those
roots down deeper into the soil
to grab the water that it needs.
So the plant has mechanisms for
upping the amount of water that
it will take out of the soil
around its root system. And so
I'm not sure how much good it
really, for a week is probably
not enough to affect the growth
of that plant in any way. So in
really dry, arid areas maybe so.
So it would be interesting to
look at that. What goes on with
the biology around the root
system as you're letting this
drying process happen, you're not
going to lose any species. They're
just going to go dormant. And
especially with water, you know,
they've got a fair amount of time
to respond to the fact that the
water really is drying out and it
really is time to go get into
dormant form. So when you come
through and you harvest, you have
less damage from the harvest
because the organisms are already
going sound asleep. Yeah, I don't,
it doesn't really ring my bells
at all to get worried about that.
So let's talk about something
specifically for the indoor
cultivators for a moment, Elaine.
You know, many indoor cultivators
try to mimic outdoor regenerative
techniques in their gardens
because perhaps they don't have
access to outdoor space or maybe
they live somewhere where the
weather is just not going to play
ball. And so they want to grow
indoors, but they don't want to
go the whole, you know, you know,
you know, the two part salts game
because they want to be, you
know, using a healthier cannabis
themselves. And so, you know,
perhaps they're still in pots,
but you know, it's becoming very
common to use four by four or
four by eight indoor beds. But
being indoors, there's a clear
limit to how much soil food web
biomimicry can take place because
there's so much of nature that
you're not participating in and
that you just can't mimic
indoors in a tent. For indoor
folks, how should we think about,
you know, that natural limit to
how much biomimicry we can do and
best adapt our indoor gardens in
attempt to, you know, make them
as true as possible to the soil
food web?
Yeah, the biggest problem I think
is going to be that the roots
should be growing down and not
out to the sides. And I said, I
suppose if you had a situation
where that's the only, you know,
you don't have someplace where
you can hang the baskets with the
plants growing in it up at, you
know, six or eight feet high. So
the root systems can go down into
a trench that you would dig in,
in the floor.
That's a novel thing to picture.
Take the boards out between your
ground floor and the basement. If
you could, you know, have the
above ground part up in a, you
know, a bubble window and then
the pot with the roots going down
into your basement, you might be
able to be more typical of what we
want to have occurring out in the
field. But what if your field
isn't actually doing that? Your
field is compacted at some depth
and the roots will only grow down
to that depth. They will tend to
go sideways then and be fighting
with the next plants over because
they're all not getting the
nutrients or the water that they
need. So, you know, which is, what
is it that you're trying to mimic?
Your not so healthy plants that are
outside hitting a compaction layer
or you're going to be building
structure in that compaction layer.
So over the years, you're going to
be able to get the root systems of
your plants down the 12, 15 feet
that we're hoping for. And then
you would have to biomimic it
inside your house if you brought
those pots in.
So it sounds like since we, you
know, even though I really love the
idea of sketching out this, this
hanging pots and having it go
through a tube to a trough, it
sounds like really folks who want
to biomimic soil food web, their
best things to focus will be on
just ensuring that they have got
the most complex soil and
rhizosphere as possible by, you
know, supporting the residents
that are already there and then
continuing to inoculate with, with
IMOs and, and such things and just
focus on the biology of the soil
and, and call that, you know, good
enough.
Yeah. You know, using the extracts,
the compost, the teas as needed to
try to keep the food web balanced
where you did, because one of the
things you'll discover is what is
the balance of bacteria and fungi
for this particular cultivar of
cannabis, which, which one did you
buy and how much difference is
there going to be between this
first species versus the second
subspecies, whatever, that's going
to be fun to find out about as
well.
So, so I've just got two questions
left for you. And, and, and, and
before we go to the final one,
which is, you know, kind of a
delightful philosophical, you know,
position for us to end the show
with, I'd really love you to just
give us your, your elevator pitch
about the soil food web school that
you started, because so many of us
have been accessing, you know, your
education and message and insights
through, you know, books and papers
and YouTube presentations for these
years. But, but now you, you know,
you've kind of, you've kind of taken
all of that and gone pro and made it
a, a, a system so that somebody can
work through the entire range of
soil food web ideas and then, you
know, get a certificate in the end
as well. So, well, would you just
tell us a little bit about that
before we wrap up?
We, what we saw was that people
learning the techniques and then
going back home and applying them,
it's hard for them to do the
research kinds of things. We didn't
go through that of how to figure
things out if it's not exactly the
way we, we were talking about it in
the classes. So we realized that was,
we needed to start getting our
students understanding that every
time we say it depends, that means
they're gonna have to do a little bit
of researching. They, and we, I like
the little containers that, where we
can put in, you know, let's see, six
cups of our woody mix, three cups of
our green plant material, and then one
cup of our high nitrogen material.
And you mix that all up and make
certain that you're watering it so
you know it's got a nice amount of
moisture in it. Treat it just like you
would your larger compost piles inside
the bird cages. And watch the
temperature. Is, is that really high
nitrogen that you put in? Is there a
problem where you're not seeing any
bacterial growth? And you can design
your, your compost system better, but
you're, you know, you're doing some
testing where you're trying different
materials as high nitrogen. Which is the
best high nitrogen that I've got? Which
is the best woody substrate? Does it
matter if I let that woody substrate get
completely involved in a bunch of
different fungi and I use that as
composed as compared to something that
was just ground up, you know, two or
three months ago or something like that.
And so you, you test for yourself and
we're teaching our students that way to
deal with questions that you might have
and figure it out for yourself. Now we'd
like to have you all send back in what
you discover so we can just keep
enlarging the table about where in the
world are you and what is the best
source of high nitrogen, the best source
of sources of woody materials and so on
and so forth. You know, lots of examples
that I could give, but I'll keep going.
It sounds like the main gist or intent,
I guess is a probably better word for
the Soil Food Web School is, so we've
studied these ideas of the soil food web,
you know, wrote to memorize them and what
the school does is it gives you the
skills to do the research so that you
can do the processes that you need in
order to be able to work with soil. Not
just like you read it in a textbook, but
that you actually have ownership over
the techniques and the ideas. Yep, because
we know that every bit of a biome is not
going to be behaving the same way,
especially if you understand succession,
which I just barely started going
through, which you know, when you look at
a watershed and you look at the fact
that up there at the top of the mountain
is mostly conifer forest and then you've
got deciduous forest and then you've got
the shrubs and bushes and this is
succession. You're looking at succession.
So where is your land or where is your
client's land? Is it down here in the
riparian zone? Is it a weedy area that
gets disturbed all the time by wild and
crazy things, you know, going up the
slope a little bit into shrubbery and
really high, good, highly productive
grasslands? You have to have that
microscope to be answering most of these
questions about what's missing so you
can pretty easily start to build a good
library about here's what you do when.
Fill in the blank. And if we can have
that for the school, so you see what
we're doing is what are the things that
will make it easier and easier for
students to be successful out in the
real world. Yeah, it sounds like it's a
setup for what to do when the answer is
it depends. Yeah. So let's follow with
this one. So Dr. Elaine Ingham, you've
been an educator and an activist
actually for soil health for decades and
it's certainly true that regenerative
growing techniques have, you know,
increased in popularity and the
generations behind us are even more
interested than us. But also, you know,
the fertilizer lobbyists also still have
a strong hold. And what advice or insight
would you share with those who will
carry the torch forward in this fight
that sometimes almost seems
overwhelming? Well, it seemed
overwhelming to convince the world that
soil is alive 45 years ago. And yet we've
done that. It's amazing. Once we got over
kind of the threshold of people
accepting that, it didn't matter what the
chemical companies were talking about.
It didn't matter that our politicians
are in the pocket of those people. When
the general public decides, it goes that
way. And so, you know, we've got to make
this as understandable for the average
person that they get it and they demand
that their food is grown this way. So,
you know, we're going to get all of our
nutrients from plants that are cycling
nutrients and building nutrients and
building protection and that transfers
to us. The microorganisms on the outside
of all of the food that we eat should be
what Mother Nature put there and not
what we put there by spraying pesticides
or spraying, you know, for whatever it is
we're going to go out there and try to
kill. You don't ever kill if you don't
have to. I guess there's a few exceptions
like human pathogens. Yes, we do always
have to kill them. But it's going to be
using a system that is not toxic
chemicals that spread everywhere. That,
you know, leach from all of our
ecosystem, from all of our organic, our
agricultural systems into the water and
destroys water quality of everything
downstream. So, we've got to get the
reasons for dealing with landfills that
are just oozing horrible combinations of
toxic chemicals into the rivers and
lakes and streams. And how are humans
supposed to survive if those are the
kinds of systems that we're living in?
Yeah, thank you Elaine. So, this brings
us to our end. Dr. Elaine Ingham, thank
you so much for sharing your time and
your expertise to join me today here on
Shaping Fire, but even more so, thank you
for your long career of research and
sharing it and, you know, giving a damn
and sharing that too. It was absolutely,
you know, I've enjoyed hearing you talk
before, but it's been an absolute joy to
have the opportunity to actually
interact with you. Thank you so much.
Well, thank you. Some great questions and
you led me through them in a really
thoughtful and useful way. So, I hope we
can do this again next year. Wonderful, thank you.
So, dear listener, if you would like to
hear more from Dr. Elaine Ingham, you're
in luck because she is a guest that
there's a whole bunch online. So, I
recommend you start these three places.
The first and foremost is
SoilFoodWeb.com. That is Dr. Elaine's
website. It's the home of the school.
There's all sorts of resources and it's
a great place to start. The second place
especially if you are interested in, you
know, learning some techniques as you go
is the Instagram for the school as well
and that's SoilFoodWebSchool on
Instagram and, you know, that there are
there are like kind of, you know,
institutional posts about what's going
on at the school, but there's also a
whole bunch of technique in there as
well and, you know, it's a profile that
I enjoy following. And then finally
probably the best place to go is
YouTube if you like listening to
your education like this. There's a whole
bunch of stuff that Elaine has done
online and then of course Dr. Elaine is,
you know, a very published scientist and
so if you also like to read your
education, you can find, you know, many
scientific papers and her books, you know,
with a simple search online. You can
find more episodes of the Shaping Fire
podcast and subscribe to the show at
ShapingFire.com and wherever you get
your podcasts. If you enjoyed the show,
we'd really appreciate it if you would
leave a positive review of the podcast
wherever you download. Your review will
help others find the show so they can
enjoy it too. On the Shaping Fire website
you can also subscribe to the newsletter
for insights into the latest cannabis
news, exclusive videos, and giveaways. On
the Shaping Fire website you also find
transcripts of today's podcast as well.
Be sure to follow on Instagram for all
original content not found on the
podcast. That's at Shaping Fire and at
Shango Lose on Instagram. Be sure to
check out Shaping Fire YouTube channel
for exclusive interviews, farm tours, and
cannabis lectures. Does your company want
to reach our national audience of
cannabis enthusiasts? Email hotspot at
ShapingFire.com to find out how. Thanks
for listening to Shaping Fire. I've been
your host, Shango Lose.
