For decades, it's been the habit of most cannabis growers to dedicate themselves to
using several bottles of various synthetic nutrients to grow their plants.
What we've seen in the last few years, though, is a revival of natural growing techniques
that focus on building healthy soil, which in turn grows thriving plants.
Instead of dumping raw chemicals into the soil and demanding it grow, true gardeners
are learning to work in cooperation with the soil and its inhabitants to create the healthiest
environment possible for their plants to live.
These natural cannabis growers work with the soil's microbe communities, fungi, and organic
food web to strike a balance where they no longer need to add raw nutrients at all because
the soil itself contains everything the plant needs to thrive naturally.
If you enjoy hearing frank discussions that dive deep into cannabis health, business,
and technique, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
Every week you'll receive a new podcast episode delivered right to your inbox, along
with commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week and videos, too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published.
Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I am your host, Shango Lose.
My guest today is Jeff Loewenfels.
Jeff is author of the award-winning trilogy of books titled Teaming with Microbes, the
Organic Gardener's Guide to the Soil Food Web, Teaming with Nutrients, the Organic Gardener's
Guide to Optimizing Plant Nutrition, and Teaming with Fungi, the Organic Grower's Guide to
Mycorrhiza.
Jeff writes the longest-running gardening column in the US, running 41 years now for
the Alaska Dispatch.
He's also a lawyer and former TV and radio show host.
I was fortunate enough to have the opportunity to hear Jeff speak at the 2016 Emerald Cup
in Sonoma, California.
He is an incredibly lively speaker, and he kept the room laughing with salacious jokes
about fungi and the food web.
I knew I had to ask him to come on this show, and he was kind enough to accept the invitation.
Welcome to the show, Jeff.
It's my pleasure to be here.
So Jeff, when I was a kid, the folks on my block would actually cook their soil in old
coffee containers on the grill to make sure that it was good and dead before adding their
store-bought inputs and potting up their plants.
But now, though, the idea of creating a living soil community to nourish the plants instead
of just adding nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium is really taking over.
And for many growers, the idea of creating a self-sustaining soil system instead of just
pouring in more fertilizers is a huge jump in their thinking.
How do you like to describe living soil in a way that makes sense to folks who are new
to thinking about it this way?
Great question.
And it takes me back to my father's sterilizer.
He had the biggest compost pile literally in the town.
I mean, this was almost half an acre of compost.
And he would then take that compost and put it into a sterilizer.
Wow.
And I remember how bad it smelled.
So let's start right there.
I think you could sort of say that living soil is all that smell that occurs when you
sterilize soil.
And so I would start right there.
Obviously, soil is not what it used to be.
We used to think it was just this inert substance that was there to hold plants and on which
you could put fertilizer and which allowed water to drain through.
We now know that that's absolutely not true.
It's organic matter.
It's minerals from rocks that have broken down over the eons.
And it is a tremendous amount of living organisms which require oxygen and water in order to
be able to live.
So it's completely different than what it was when you and I were younger.
Yeah, absolutely.
Actually, my dad did that same thing with taking his soil and sterilizing it.
And nowadays, when we think about living soil, it's much more of a, instead of considering
it an inert thing, it's more about a neighborhood.
We're trying to create a neighborhood of good neighbors that'll be a nice buffet for the
plant instead of essentially being dead and therefore needing to rely on us for everything.
Well, I think what we're really trying to say, yeah, you're right.
We're trying to set up a neighborhood.
And so if you've got a good soil situation, what you've got is a condominium that's operating
properly.
So it's a perfectly constructed condominium, never needs any repairs.
It's got all of the inhabitants that you'd want to have in a condominium so that everybody
has fun and they can help each other out and they don't irritate each other too much and
they take care of the bad guys when they appear.
And it's fully stocked with great food so everybody has a great time in that condominium.
You're absolutely right.
It's a neighborhood.
It's a condominium that just hums.
And it really is the Soil Food Web concept that's taking over, I think, how we're looking
at not just how we grow cannabis, but it's how we grow food.
It's what we eat.
It's how we eat.
It's why we eat.
The comparison between the stomach and how it operates, I shouldn't say the stomach,
but the intestines and how it operates versus the Soil Food Web.
Everything ties together.
It's a beautiful, beautiful system.
So because there are so many ways to coax a biologically active community along in the
soil, what do you see as a good place for a beginner to start?
Well, I think compost is always the best place to start.
You know, compost contains in it all of the organisms that you'd really want to have to
hold the foods that the plants eat.
Well, I guess that's the proper term.
And all of the organisms that eat those organisms and poop out that food so that it's available
in plant usable form.
So it's got all of the fungi and the bacteria, which are at the bottom of the Soil Food Web.
And then it's got the nematodes and protozoa in phenomenal numbers that cycle the nutrients
so that compost becomes usable for the plants.
And, you know, compost is just the easiest thing to get your hands on.
It's easy to make.
It's easy to buy.
Of course, it's easy to buy lousy compost, but it's also easy to buy good compost and
it's easy to make.
So I would start right there.
That's the be all and beginning.
So when people have found their way to either a good source to buy their compost or they've
done a little homework and they've figured out how to make compost at home, most folks
tend to move on from that to nutrient teas.
We're huge fans of nutrient teas here at Shaping Fire.
What are some of your favorite wildcrafted nutrient teas for encouraging probiotic growth
in the soil?
Well, again, I mean, let's think in terms of the beginner.
I mean, you take that compost, you're right.
Once you have that compost, then you learn that you can do designer things with it.
You can make more fungally dominated compost or more bacterially dominated compost.
For cannabis, you want bacterially dominated compost.
And for all sorts of reasons, you can make teas out of that compost and you can make
fungally dominated teas or more fungally dominated teas and bacterially dominated teas, which
you can use as soil drenches and which you can then spray also on the leaves where the
microbes that are in that compost tea outcompete the bacteria.
Well, actually, yeah, the bacteria and the fungi and the nematodes, the bad guys that
might be on those leaves or might get on those leaves.
So if you spray good stuff on them, there's no room for the bad guys.
There's no food left for the bad guys.
There's no entry ways for the bad guys.
So compost tea, definitely something that people want to get into.
The intermediate step would be compost extracts.
You don't need a brewer.
You don't need a tremendous amount of time.
In 15 minutes, you can take compost, wrap it up in cheesecloth.
This is just kneaded in a couple of gallons of water.
Then you've got an extract of a lot of those microbes.
They haven't multiplied themselves, but you've pulled them out of the compost.
And then the next step, of course, is the compost teas, which require a brewer.
It's often called fermentation because you're brewing the tea.
You're taking energy and you're pulling out the bacteria and the fungi and the nematodes
and the protozoa.
And you're then feeding them and causing them to either grow or to multiply or to change
their ratios during a 24 to 48-hour period.
And that, to many people, is sort of the ultimate way of adding biology.
I would have said so when I wrote Teeming with Microbes, the first edition back in 2006.
I'm beginning to think that it is certainly important, but that there are other things
that you can do, namely mycorrhizal fungi, which can be added.
Of course, we already know about adding nitrogen-fixing bacteria to the proper plants.
So I think compost tea is a large part of a bigger picture.
So when you were talking about the nutrient teas, you were talking about a fungally dominant
one.
Or a bacterially dominated.
Or bacterially dominant.
And a lot of people who have not gotten to the point yet where they're prepared for a
brewer, either they don't quite have the budget yet or they're just on their learning path
and they're just not there yet.
They'll probably be using more the second version that you suggested, which is simply
take your compost and put it in some cheesecloth and squeeze it into a five-gallon bucket of
water that has had the chlorine vaped off of it or whatever.
And then use that to water your plants.
And that's great.
But some folks still would like to be able to get that fungally dominant tea effect.
Can you suggest a way that we can perhaps inoculate our compost pile so there's going
to be more mycelium there for when we do this squeeze the cheesecloth approach?
Sure.
Well, what happens of course is that if you add more brown material to your compost pile,
particularly once you've got that compost cooking and really going, you're breaking
down more materials which are likely to feed the fungi.
So you can start there.
You can take the material that you're going to be using either for your tea or for your
compost extract, which is that second method.
And you can inoculate it with foods that will grow the fungi.
And then you take that material and you use it to make your tea or your extract.
And in that particular instance, you can use baby oatmeal, ground up barley.
But baby oatmeal is probably the easiest thing to get your hands on.
And you just simply mix it in so that you can see the flakes.
And then you keep it in a dark, warm area for 24, 48 hours and the fungal hyphae will
grow and multiply and form mycelium.
And then you can use that block because it will become a block for your compost tea or
your compost extract.
That will be more fungally dominated.
Or you can, and I should say, you can use fungal foods in your compost tea.
Not in the abstract because they're not there long enough to be able to grow.
In a compost tea, the bacteria will start to multiply in the first 15, 20 minutes.
Fungus will grow, but they really won't multiply for 24, 48 hours, probably more like 48 hours.
And really what you're doing is growing them in a compost tea.
So you want to use foods that will feed them.
Turns out molasses will actually feed compost tea, fungus as well as bacteria.
Just don't use too much.
You'll get a lot of bacteria if you use too much.
The fish hydrolyzates will also feed the fungi.
And some people use green sand in their compost tea as a substrate to try to feed the fungi.
So yeah, what you really want to make, however, for cannabis is a bacterially dominated tea
so you really don't even have to worry too much about this stuff.
Well then that just begs the question, right?
So if that was a how to make a fungally dominant, how would we flip to the other side and make
it more bacterially dominant?
Well remember I said they multiply within 15 minutes.
If you do nothing to the tea but just aerate it for 24 hours, they're just going to be
multiplying because they'll be living off the organic material.
But if you add molasses, they will go nuts.
And of course it's got to be non-sulfur.
And they'll multiply like crazy.
A lot of people will throw a little bit of alfalfa in their compost teas the last couple
of hours because they're covered with protozoa and they'll multiply.
And so you'll get a nice little mix that recycles itself or cycles the nutrients throughout.
So it's a pretty interesting system.
And above and beyond everything else, whatever kind of tea you make, it's ultimately up to
the plant to adjust its extracts to be able to attract what it needs.
So the plant will adjust things to make it work.
Right on.
So to kind of summarize that for folks who are new to this idea and it isn't just fitting
in immediately, you start by taking some of your finished compost, wrapping it in cheese
cloth, squeezing it into a five-gallon bucket of water.
Well just sort of kneading it for 15 minutes.
You wrap it up and you just knead that cheese cloth for 15 minutes.
Just if I can make some sound effects.
You know and you squeeze these things out because let me just back up for a second just
to make sure for people who really don't know what we're talking about.
And it's all outlined in the first book Teeming with Microbes, which by the way everybody
should get.
And if you get it and don't like it, I'll buy it back at three times the price.
I guarantee you're going to get a lot of use out of it.
But the bottom line is what's happening is the plants are putting out chemicals through
their root system that attract the bacteria and the fungi and they eat the stuff that
the plant's putting out because it's got a lot of carbons in it.
They in turn attract nematodes and protozoa who eat them.
They poop the excess.
It's got a lot of nutrients in it, particularly nitrogen, which feeds the plant.
That's all happening right there in the root zone.
The plant can change those exudates to attract what it needs.
So you know if you put down something and it's something in there the plant wants, it'll
change the exudate to attract what it needs.
The plant is in control, not you.
But again, so you need the stuff for 15 minutes.
You pull out the nematodes and the protozoa and the bacteria and the bacteria and the
fungi make soil structure.
And so that's why you've got to use the energy of your hands to make the compost extract
or the energy from a pump to make compost tea because these things are sticky and they
bind together.
It's like the bacteria on your teeth.
You don't just swish your teeth out in the morning with water.
You brush them with a lot of energy to get rid of that bacterial slime.
And that's what you have to do to the particle of soil to break off that bacteria and to
strip out that fungi.
So you use energy and you make this soup or these teas and then you use them on your system.
And so I tend to use a, what do you call it, an aquarium pump that both aerates the tea
but then also provides the energy to break it up.
Do you find that that works good for you as well?
No, because I think unless it's a gigantic aquarium like the size of the Monterey Aquarium,
I think the pump's probably too small.
In the beginning, we used to use those aquarium pumps.
A lot of research was done by Dr. Elaine Ingham who's certainly the goddess of all of this
stuff.
And anytime you get a chance to go hear Dr. Elaine or read anything she's written, she's,
you know, well, what can I say?
I mean, we bow at her feet.
But yeah, those pumps don't provide the six or seven parts per million air that you really
need.
And so you really got to step up the air if you want to make it really work.
Right on, great.
I'm glad I asked that question.
You shouldn't use those aquarium stones either because those stones, when you turn the pump
off, fill up with water and it's got the bacterial slime in it.
It forms and grows in those little holes and they're impossible to clean.
And then you get bad situations.
So just bubble.
Sure, sure.
So after folks have gotten into nutrient and compost teas, a lot of folks really enjoy
moving on to fermentations and labs and such.
What are your favorite fermentations for thriving soil?
Well, you know, I'm not really into them in a big way.
You're talking about EM and-
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah.
You know, to me, if you're using compost tea, you're getting what you need.
EM, it certainly works.
I mean, people tell me it works.
I don't use it other than making Bokashi in the wintertime because it's a great way to
sort of make compost in a cold climate in the winter without getting smells when your
pile's not working, obviously.
But it's got, you know, 15, 16 different microbes in it.
Compost tea has 35,000 different microbes in it.
You know, there's a world of difference.
And I think the diversity makes sense when you believe that it's the plant that's choosing
what it needs.
You want to give it as much opportunity to choose what it really needs.
So I like the diversity of compost tea over these ferments, but I'm certainly not discouraging
of them.
I think all of them do one thing that's important and that was sort of outlined in the second
book, Teeming with Nutrients, which I don't guarantee because I think it's a much more
difficult book to get through, but I think it's an important book.
And that is the law of return.
And we violate the law of return when we deal with soils because we harvest things from
that soil.
That stuff's supposed to fall down and be decayed and go back in and feed the plant
again and feed the soil again and feed the microbes again.
We harvest it.
So we're taking stuff away.
And when you put these ferments in, you're adding some of the stuff that you've taken
away.
You're helping to rebalance the law of return.
If that makes sense.
Yeah, yeah.
I follow you.
So we're going to take our first short break and be right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is organic gardener and author
Jeff Loewenfels.
If you grow cannabis with sunshine, you can often feel limited by the seasonal cycle.
You want to grow sustainably and save money, so you use as little electricity as possible.
But if you haven't studied or implemented light deprivation techniques into your greenhouse,
you're leaving a lot of money on the table.
By incorporating light deprivation solutions into your greenhouse, you can often add two
or three additional growing cycles to your year.
When you pencil out the financial benefit of those additional cycles, you'll realize
why commercial scale light deprivation technology is remaking the cannabis industry.
What used to be done by pulling tarps over hoop houses has been scaled up over the last
few years in such a way that it's become mechanized, easy and affordable to even small
scale commercial cannabis operations.
Forever Flowering Greenhouses is the industry leader in light deprivation greenhouse designed
in operation for the commercial cannabis industry.
Their team of greenhouse experts have been in the fields of Northern California for decades
and they're now building greenhouses for commercial cannabis companies across the country.
If you are new to light depth and growing in greenhouses, I encourage you to go back
to Shaping Fire episode 13 with guest Eric Brandstad of Forever Flowering.
I talk with Eric about the importance of intelligent greenhouse management as well as the huge
financial benefit of incorporating light depth techniques.
There are so many aspects of utilizing a greenhouse that can go wrong.
From temperature and airflow to light depth and workflow, Forever Flowering will help
you produce crop after crop of well cared for flowers.
They can help you retrofit your existing greenhouse with light depth and other modern systems
at a level that fits your budget.
If you're just starting out, Forever Flowering can help you plan and build your new greenhouse
so that you get started on the right foot.
The cannabis business has enough risks without trying to go it alone with your greenhouse.
Contact Forever Flowering Greenhouses to partner with folks who have an indisputable reputation
as knowledgeable and easy to work with.
Go to shapingfire.com forward slash ffg to find out more.
Now that the health benefits of terpenes have become well known in the cannabis industry,
people everywhere are looking for the purest terpenes without adulterants.
The problem with most terpene providers is that they're not sourced naturally and instead
are made as a byproduct of refining petroleum.
And that's so sketchy.
The terpenes sold by True Terpenes are entirely different.
They are certified organic, non-GMO, and food grade.
That means that they are extracted from real plant sources.
There are no solvents of any kind.
They are distilled only with steam.
That's right, only steam.
In fact, terpenes from True Terpenes are so pure that you can eat them.
Not only that, but you can stack them with better results too.
What I mean is, other companies' terpenes have got a few percent of impurities, and
when you stack those terpenes to make your blend, you're adding a variety of impurities
that degrade your final product.
True Terpenes also have strain-specific terpenes for a wide range of cannabis strains like
Durban Poison, Sunset Sherbet, and Granddaddy Purple.
True Terpenes has robust and supportive customer service, so your questions will get answered
fast and efficiently.
If you've shopped for terps before, you know how rare that is.
So whether you want to cup your hands to smell some beta-caryophyllene to calm down after
getting too high, or if you want to dab some pinene so your lungs feel fabulous and your
mind feels liberated, True Terpenes will provide you with a truly natural experience.
If you are a cannabis product developer, these are the terps you want to add to your oil
or edible or capsule or whatever.
True Terpenes are simply the best your money can buy.
Don't try and make a premium product with substandard terps.
Choose True Terpenes for a top-shelf experience.
Go to shapingfire.com forward slash true terpenes to find out more or click on the
link in this week's newsletter.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose.
And our guest this week is organic gardener and author Jeff Loewenfels.
So Jeff, you know, often with crossover gardeners coming from foods and ornamentals over to
cannabis, they don't know too much about cannabis sativa.
But you know, from hearing you today and more especially listening to your 2017 Emerald
Cup presentation, you definitely seem familiar with growing it.
Where did you learn about growing cannabis?
Gee, where did I learn about growing cannabis?
I'm trying to think.
I was, I guess I was in college.
So back in the, oh my God, it was a long time ago.
Maybe I was in law school when I grew my first plant, but I've always grown things and cannabis
is, you know, and I tell people this, for those who don't know on this broadcast, I
write a garden column.
I've been writing one for, oh my God, 40 some odd years for the Anchorage newspaper in Alaska.
And you know, I write about cannabis now because it's legal here and I tell people it's just
a plant.
So it doesn't take any real special skills to grow.
I think the biggest problem that I am beginning to notice with growing cannabis is that the
there are too many myths that people follow without thinking about what they're doing
and why those myths may, might've developed and why they might be myths and therefore
not fact.
But I started way back when, back in the, oh, I guess back in the late sixties growing cannabis
first in my apartment in Boston.
Then I moved to Alaska.
I remember having a couple of cannabis plants here.
It was legal because our Supreme Court back in 1975 came out with a conclusion that our
constitution allows you to grow cannabis, privacy of your home.
And so I had some cannabis plants growing on my property.
And I remember my father coming up to visit and wandering around saying, gee, what is
that plant?
And he was, he was the guy that taught me all the stuff I knew about growing plants,
although he had never seen the cannabis plant.
So I've been growing it for a long time.
It's been legal here in Alaska, as I said, since 1975.
And therefore I've had a lot of opportunity to practice without having to worry about
the law coming down on my head.
Yeah, that makes a lot of sense.
And it must be really exciting for you, you know, with your relationship with the plant
going so far back and now suddenly people asking you more questions about cannabis instead
of, you know, the more traditional gardening topics that you might get through your column.
It must be interesting and exciting for you to be able to, you know, talk more about this
plant that you love now that it's, you know, it's being normalized across the rest of the
country.
Yeah.
I mean, the most interesting thing is, first of all, that my both of my publishers, Timber
Press, which has published all three of my books, you know, said this book's got to have
cannabis in it.
Wow.
Had they said that to me in 2006, Teaming with Micros would have been all about cannabis.
But my publisher in my newspaper also has said, gee, in your column we'd like you to
address cannabis.
What?
What?
You know, I don't have to disguise it as a tomato plant anymore.
It's really quite a change.
So that's interesting.
The excitement is that cannabis growers, as you know, are some of the finest growers in
the world.
I shouldn't say growers, finest gardeners in the world.
And so the opportunity to be able to kick around questions and things about cannabis
and to learn things from them is exciting.
And finally, you know, speaking of tomatoes, Ann Landers, if she was a garden columnist,
would have said, how many times can you repeat a tomato column?
To get something new to be able to write about and something with so much to write
about.
Wow.
It's fabulous.
And I am convinced on a gardening side that cannabis is the next tomato plant.
You know, the tomato has always been the holy grail of the home gardener to grow a beautiful
tomato, you know.
And I think now we're going to see cannabis replacing the tomato as the holy grail plant.
That sounds like such a beautiful vision right there.
Well, in fact, it's not even a vision.
I can tell you that the three of us are going to be speaking at the Garden Writers Association's
conference, the national conference on cannabis.
I'm going to be speaking about how you write about it, you know, for a generalized public.
We've got a gentleman who's going to be speaking about the breeding efforts that are going
on so that it's available as a, you know, outdoor six-pack plant.
Gentleman who's very, very heavily involved in micro propagation.
And then the third part of the speaker is going to be somebody who's going to be pointing
out, you know, some of the stupidity that people have bought into that has resulted
in the stigma that makes it difficult to write about this stuff.
So it's going to be very interesting.
This is the first time ever this national organization's had a conversation about a
plant that I'm virtually certain three quarters of them use, you know, on a weekly basis.
It's so nice to see, you know, we're essentially priming the pump of the next generation of
educators to reach out to even more people.
You know, I spend a lot of time speaking with doctors and naturopaths and other caregivers
about how to work with patients and their endocannabinoid system.
And so I'm creating new educators.
Similarly, with the event that you've just described, you are educating gardening writers
how to then reach out to their following and teach them how to grow cannabis.
And this is how, you know, these are force multipliers of education.
Oh, absolutely.
I mean, and once, trust me, once the garden writers start writing about it, we reach,
and we say garden writers, but these are the folks that do television shows and, you know,
podcasts and radio shows and newspaper columns and magazine columns and books.
Once they start writing about cannabis on a regular basis, the same way they write about
tomatoes, it's over, folks.
I don't care whether it's Jeff Sessions, you know, his mother or his grandmother.
It's over because it's just a plant, folks.
It's just a plant.
Boy, that could be a good book title.
I really enjoy seeing all the people who have not ever really kept a garden before suddenly
decide they want to start growing food because they've had such a good experience growing
their first couple cannabis plants and then realizing that more than anything, cannabis
is actually a gateway to gardening.
Absolutely.
I mean, you know, it's an easy plant to grow.
Yeah, I mean, I'll admit to grow really great cannabis takes a little bit of skill.
But once you grow a nice cannabis plant, you say, whoa, wait a second.
You know, I can grow anything and you can't.
Cannabis is a fun plant to grow.
There are a couple of little tricks, but once you nail those down, man, what a fun plant
to grow.
Right on.
So let's get back into the garden.
So, you know, gardeners use a lot of nutrients as we were talking about in the first set.
What do you see as a good model of recycling these nutrients back into the ecosystem in
a sustainable way after you harvest?
Hmm.
A good model of recycling.
Well, I think what you're really describing is sort of regenerative gardening.
And if I understand your question properly, there are a number of things that I do to
try to, again, it all goes back to this law of return that I try to do in order to balance
the fact that I've broken the law of return.
So I guess do my time is the proper term.
So first of all, I reuse my soils.
I know a lot of people throw their soils out.
At a minimum, put the soils in a compost pile, let them compost for a season or two, and
then reuse them after that.
But I reuse my soil right away.
I don't disturb the roots that are in the soil.
I let that organic matter become available to the microbes and therefore the soil system
itself during the growth of the next plant.
I let that root system act as a guideway for the new roots of the plants that I plant
in there.
And I let the mycorrhizal network, which I know has developed in that pot or in that
garden bed, remain undisturbed so that it going out to get goodies, which I'm adding
into the garden or into the pot by A, using soluble organics and B, putting compost and
organics on the surface.
Any leaves that come off the plant on the surface, any sticks and stems either go into
the compost pile that then goes on the plant or go right on the surface of the plant.
And I always, always have mulch whenever I'm growing cannabis.
So it actually sounds like you're ... I mean, it sounds like that's a no-till technique
really but in a container.
My next question was actually going to wrap into this.
I was going to ask you if you think it makes more sense to no-till and simply replant in
the same pot using fresh top amendments that'll get watered in, or are you more a fan of emptying
the pots in the pile and then the mending the whole pile?
But it sounds like you're of the mind that no, just pop out the top of the root system
of the prior plant and then just put your new start right on in that same hole.
Yeah, I don't think you can do it forever.
Well, you probably can do it forever.
You got to keep an eye on what's going on, but it's certainly worth people experimenting
and trying.
The other system works as well.
Don't get me wrong, but gee, you've done a lot of work for that.
Let's take a male plant for example.
People just throw them out.
Wait a second.
That male plant has been throwing out the exudates that a cannabis plant throws out
into the soil.
Why would you get rid of that?
It's full of these wonderful, delicious exudates, as Elaine says, cooking candies and stuff
that these microbes love.
You're going to throw it out just because it's a male plant.
No, no, no, no.
You cut off the flowers.
You compost the rest.
You keep that soil and you plant right in there.
Bingo.
You got all the exudates you need right away to start with.
Wow.
To me, it just makes logical sense.
But I've written three books on the subject.
So earlier you were talking about Bokashi and Bokashi really seems to be taking over.
For those who don't know, it's a fermented, inoculated, fermented brand, I guess.
Do you have any tips or insight that you'd like to offer on making or using it?
Because you've probably come across some over the days.
Well, it's supposed to be a proprietary mix.
You're supposed to buy it only from people who've got licenses, et cetera, et cetera.
But if you go on the internet, and I won't do it for you, but you can certainly use Google,
which is the cannabis grower's finest tool, you can find all sorts of recipes to make
your own.
It's not hard.
It's very, very easy to do so.
You can use some of your old Bokashi to inoculate the stuff that you've used.
But again, to me, compost is much better than using it.
I just can't figure out why it's taken over.
Right on.
Sometimes we keep on coming back to compost tea, and it makes me think that sometimes
people like to get more complex just for the complexity's sake because they're active learners
and they're curious and they want to do more and more stuff.
But since we keep on circling back, would you say that using a quality compost tea is
– I'm going to air quotes this – but all you need?
Really keep it simple, and if you use the compost tea, you're going to get where you
want to go.
If you want to learn this extra stuff, by all means, do it for your own enjoyment.
But really, you're adding icing on an already done cake.
Well, it depends on what you're growing in.
If you've got phenomenal soil like we have here in Alaska, yeah, compost tea is all you
need.
Our soil is full of volcanic ash.
It's got all the minerals you'd ever want, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
I understand and I believe that it is possible to grow plants without ever adding anything
other than the microbes.
No question in my mind, but that takes longer than you want to wait, perhaps.
You've got a season.
You don't want to wait three seasons.
You've got a business, et cetera, et cetera.
Adding stuff is not bad.
Using just compost tea can certainly work if you've got the right soils, but each to
his own, so you've got to do some testing.
I am a big believer in banding organics underneath plants when I put them in.
That doesn't mean I rototill.
When you put in a seed or you put in a transplant, you make a hole for it.
You can put a little fertilizer in down at the bottom of that hole.
You can make the hole a little deeper.
You know what I'm saying?
You don't have to rototill the whole area to destroy it and still be able to apply fertilizers
or what I call microbe food.
Certainly by all means, you can use solubles and certainly by all means, you would want
to use mulches and compost I include as one of those mulches.
What is that term you use that's new to me, banding organics?
If you take a look at my second book, which is called...
What is my second book called?
Oh yeah, it's got the most...
Nutrients.
Oh my God.
If I may just digress for a second, I wanted to write this second book.
Why?
Because I had nothing else to do I guess.
No, because I was curious about how plants ate.
I thought it was going to be teaming with nutrients, how plants eat, an organic gardener's
guide.
Teaming with nutrients, organic gardener's guide to optimizing plant nutrition.
What the hell is that?
Anyway, you learn how plants eat, what they take in.
And one of the methods of course...
Well, there's three ways plants get their food.
One is by flow.
In other words, it's in water, it's soluble and it goes into the root system by mass flow.
The other is by osmosis diffusion, which you struggle through in 10th grade.
And then you've got mycorrhizal fungi.
The osmosis diffusion, that's really sort of when you've got direct contact.
And then you've got mycorrhizal fungi that go out into the little pores and bring food
back.
And I forgot exactly what you were asking me about.
I was just asking you to define the banding organic.
Yeah, yeah.
So when you band below where you're planting and by banding, you just put a little flat
area in there and you just put your fertilizer right down there, or I call it microbe food,
maybe a little soil on top of it.
Then you put either your transplant or your seed so that the roots grow out into that
band.
I see.
Okay, now I understand.
So essentially you're creating a preset buffet of nutrients and then the roots are growing,
aspiring for nutrients and then they grow down and then they hit that band and then
they're there waiting for them.
Well, the band is there.
They've already deplenished what's in that little zone as they're growing.
The mycorrhizal fungi, which you've also inoculated your seeds and your roots with, are growing
and are going out into that band and bringing that food back quicker.
But there's that little bit of food in there that you could add.
When you break that law of return by removing the cannabis plant, then if you're going to
use the same soil, you've got to return the nutrients that would have decayed had you
not removed that plant.
As I say in my talks, whoever fertilizes the redwoods, how do they get that big?
Nobody ever puts fertilizer down there.
Nobody puts Miracle-Gro down there.
Nobody uses general hydroponic crap.
How'd that happen?
The law of return wasn't ignored, wasn't broken.
All that stuff fell down and decayed.
Fascinating, isn't it?
Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah.
But to go back, so the second book, Teeming with Nutrients, which people should read and
struggle through because it's important to know, it's got some chemistry in it.
I apologize, but it's got the least amount of chemistry I could put in it.
I promised myself I would never ever talk about the Krebs cycle.
And so there's no Krebs cycle in it whatsoever.
I don't even think I have the formula for photosynthesis in it so people don't have
to panic.
It's got sort of a picture of how you would band as well as a description of some of the
things you might use in order to make that band.
When I saw you in December at the Emerald Cup, I'm going to paraphrase this poorly,
but you'll know where I'm going and you can take it from there.
You were talking about some of the topics from your Teeming with Fungi book, and you
were talking about that you recommend for cannabis folks to roll their seeds in a particular
fungus to support them as soon as they pop.
And I was taking as many notes as I can, but I missed which mycorrhiza it was and what
your actual strategy was.
And it was fascinating.
So with that setup, will you just kind of deliver that little nugget to everybody?
Well, I will, but you put me in a very difficult position.
So let me back up for a second.
So I've got a trilogy of books, which I'm supposed to sell.
Let's say I make my living.
And the last book is Teeming with – so I call myself Lord of the Roots, incidentally,
because I have this trilogy.
So my last book is Teeming with Fungi.
I should go out and buy it and find where that one is in the book.
I always go so fast when I talk so that people can't write it down so they will go out and
buy the book.
But I know everybody's going to go out and buy the book anyway, so I'll talk about it.
But let's quickly go back a little bit and talk about these mycorrhizal fungi.
Ninety-six percent of the plants on the planet Earth have them.
This is the reason why plants were able to colonize terra firma 400 million years ago
and 200 million years ago a second type developed.
And this second type of mycorrhizal fungi does exactly what the first one does, only
in a slightly different fashion.
And that is in return for these exudates, which we talked about at the beginning of
the program, these guys take the exudates from the plant by literally taking it from
the plant.
They're inside the plant, living inside the plant.
And the other end of them are outside the plant and in return for those exudates, they
go out and get all sorts of nutrients, which they then transfer to the plant.
And if they don't transfer them to the plant, then the plant doesn't give them the exudates.
So this is a very symbiotic relationship.
And they get nitrogen, phosphorus, those two in particular, but copper and zinc and
a couple of the Ms, which I always forget.
It's just going right out of my mind.
Manganese and anyway, they go out and get all these terrific things that the plant can't
get itself.
And so they feed the plant.
So they're very, very important.
We know of about 360 different kinds.
We know that we can only grow about 15 of them.
And if you buy a package of what's called mycorrhizal fungi, even though it may say
mycorrhizae, it's really called mycorrhizal fungi.
Mycorrhizae is the symbiotic relationship that forms and it always includes a root.
So that's not the right term for what's in the package.
If you get mycorrhizal fungi, you'll see that there are about eight or nine of them listed
on that package.
Only one of them happens to associate and form that relationship with cannabis.
And this particular one forms that association with cannabis sativa, indica, rudialis.
It doesn't matter whether it's Durban poison, Jack Herrera, whether it's teaming with microbes.
No, there is no one called teaming with microbes yet.
It doesn't matter what it is.
There's only one that feeds these guys.
And it is called, so get the pens and paper out.
Oh, wait a minute.
Here's a problem.
When I first started writing the book, it was called Glomus mossi, M-O-S-S-A-E-A, or AIDS.
You know, the Latin, mossi.
Right, right.
G-L-O-M-A, Glomus.
Unfortunately, or fortunately, I guess, over the two or three years, three years that it
took me to write the book, the genetics of these individual mycorrhizal fungi became
important enough to know that they began to study them.
And they have now reassigned the names of all of them.
My poor editor had to go back through the book and rewrite all of these Latin names.
That's why we've got second editions, Jeff.
Not that easy to write a second edition.
People don't understand, just as an aside, a second edition, they say, okay, if you can
take out six words, you can put in six words.
They're not that easy to write.
They don't just say, oh, it's four.
You get, you know, put in a new chapter.
No, you got, ah.
To go back, the one that you want is now called Rhizophagus, R-H-I-Z-O-P-H-A-G-U-S, Rhizophagus
intra, intra, I-N-T-R-A, intrarhcides, R-A-C-I-D-E-S.
Rhizophagus with a capital R, intrarhcides with a small I.
But many times in the package, you'll see it as Glomus mossi or as Glomus intrarhcides
or as Rhagophagus mossi.
So it's very confusing, but you get the idea.
That's the one you want.
Yeah, you got, we've got our key search terms now and, you know, that should get us there.
And, you know, hopefully everybody who's listening is super geeked about this now and you can
find links to the Teaming with Fungi book on the Shaping Fire podcast on the episode
page for this interview.
And also, you know, it's an easy thing to find on Amazon if you want to go there on
your own.
So, so, so let's go ahead and take our second break.
When we get back, we're going to take some questions from the show audience.
How exciting.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is organic gardener and author Jeff
Lowenfels.
We'll be right back.
Using pesticides when growing cannabis has been common for a long time.
Nowadays, though, we know better.
We know that most pesticides formulated for food crops have never been tested for use
with cannabis.
They've been tested to be eaten in tiny doses.
They have not been tested to be inhaled and especially not concentrated into a cannabis
oil.
Chemical residues from pesticides are not healthy for anyone, but they are especially
dangerous for patients.
For commercial cannabis growers, this has become very impactful.
Cannabis enthusiasts and patients have gotten educated enough that they avoid growers who
used pesticides.
Not only that, but states across the country have begun making pesticide testing mandatory
on all licensed cannabis crops.
The time has come to find a better way to fight garden pests than covering your cannabis
in chemicals.
And there is a better way.
Let some good bugs fight your bad bugs.
Beneficial insects and predatory mites have come a long way since we were buying ladybugs
online and putting them in the grow room and just hoping for the best.
Natural Enemies BioControl can help you solve pest issues without using chemicals.
Natural Enemies founder Shane Young learned best practices from working in the ornamental
plant industry and has fine-tuned those strategies specifically for large cannabis crops.
Shane works with commercial cannabis clients across the country to ensure that they keep
their crops safe and pest-free without the use of chemicals.
Natural Enemies has proven solutions for spider mites, aphids, thrips, russet mites, broad
mites, shore flies, whitefly, and others too.
You can rely on Natural Enemies for expertise and excellent service.
For more information, go to shapingfire.com forward slash natural enemies or simply click
on their banner in this week's newsletter.
If you like podcasts like Shaping Fire, chances are that you'll like audiobooks too.
Just like with podcasts, audiobooks speak to you, tell you stories, and teach you stuff.
Here's the thing.
Audible.com has an offer that I want to tell you about.
Right now they are offering a trial of their audiobook service for absolutely free.
You can go to shapingfire.com forward slash audible and you'll get a free audiobook.
Straight up.
You can listen to it on your mobile device, computer, or download it and listen to it
like anywhere.
It's really simple.
Of course, they want you to subscribe to their service after the free trial and enjoy audiobooks
forever, but you don't have to.
All you have to do to get the free audiobook of your choice is to just check out the service
for free.
The service is pretty great.
There are whole sections on permaculture, sci-fi, history, biography, hell, you can
even listen to a book about card counting and blackjack.
Whatever, it's all pretty rad.
So that's the deal.
Your first book is free, it's easy to sign up, it's easy to quit, and their online library
of free books is pretty incredible.
So just check it out.
Go to shapingfire.com forward slash audible to find out more or just click on the link
in this week's newsletter.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I am your host, Shango Lowe.
Our guest this week is organic gardener and author Jeff Loewenfels.
So during this last set, we're going to take some questions from the Shaping Fire audience
that I asked for a couple weeks ago since I knew that you were going to be on the show.
The first question is from Mike West.
Mike asks, since most of the plant's cannabinoids are created by enzymatic biopathways, but
the precursors are provided by symbiotic relationships, would Jeff please describe
the microbiology biosynthesis of terpenes and cannabinoid precursors in the roots as
well as foliar biomass?
So what do you have for that there, Jeff?
Yeah.
Well, now see, this felt...
Mike should read my second book, Teeming with Nutrients, because it really sort of discusses
that in a much simpler way.
What I think he's saying is, listen, all of these things are built inside the plant, but
they're created using the enzymes inside the plant.
The enzyme factories make all of the things that are inside a plant, and I'll go back
and discuss that in a quick second.
But all of the enzymes are taking goods that come from the soil through a biological pathway,
i.e. the microbes mineralize it and make it available to the plant, and the mycorrhizal
fungi go out and get it and bring it to the plant.
It's kind of an interesting...
It gets converted inside the plant from one sort of energy outside the plant to another
kind inside the plant.
So let me just back up for a second and say that the second book, and one of the reasons
why people find it a little bit complicated, talks about how plants eat.
You can't talk about how plants eat unless you talk about cellular biology.
The first book is microbiology.
Microbiology is a lot of fun, because we studied it in high school, and we know parameciums
and amoebas and all that kind of stuff.
It's kind of fun, because we're bacteriophobes as a group, and fungophobes, and so to study
them and read about them in the microbiology is fun.
On the other hand, cellular biology was always a pain in the butt.
Nobody really liked it.
You couldn't see the stuff.
You had to use microscopes.
Even in microscopes, you couldn't see things.
You had to use pictures in books.
Everything was two dimensions.
It wasn't fun.
Today, on the other hand, it is not only sort of fun, because we have electron microscopes,
and now we know a lot more about what happens inside a cell, but as gardeners and growers
of cannabis, there's a need to know what goes on in cellular biology.
What happens in the soil is described in the first book, Teeming with Microbes.
Those three methods that I described before are used to bring in individual nutrients
into the plant.
The nutrients enter the plant, and there are only 18 of them, and they enter the plant
each through their own gateway, and their own gateway through each individual cell in
a plant.
Each cannabis plant might have 20 trillion individual cells.
Each one of them has a plasma membrane just inside the cell wall, and that plasma membrane
has these little tunnels and gateways, and each individual tunnel takes in only one kind
of nutrient molecule.
Each one of those gateways is constructed by the enzymes, as is the plasma derma, which
is that plasma membrane, as is the cell wall, and as is every single thing made inside the
cell by using enzymes.
Each individual cell has 10,000 or more different kinds of enzymes, and at least 1,000 of each
one of them in an individual cell in which a cannabis plant or of which a cannabis plant
might have 20 to 30 trillion.
These enzymes take these individual 18 elements.
You can't play cards with 18 cards, but they're able to convert these 18 elements into every
single thing you see in a plant, and therefore, every single thing basically you see in an
animal because that animal – you may not be a vegetarian, but that animal you eat is,
and they're eating plants which are made up of these cells which have all these enzymes
which have made up every little piece.
It's mind-boggling.
Mike should read the second book with that question in mind.
That's a great answer.
It's a really on-point answer too because you mentioned about at the cellular level,
we can't see them.
When I actually asked for questions for you, Trent Rynke wrote in and he says, oh, tell
Jeff that his three books caused me to buy my first high-powered microscope.
You think about it.
Let's take flushing, the idea that you flush your plants or hydroponics.
You can't understand either of these things.
I like to say you can't understand why you shouldn't flush and you can't understand
even the use of hydroponics if you don't understand the cellular biology involved.
It is fascinating and it's very, very important for the grower that's trying to grow good
organic weed.
It's also important from a philosophical perspective because you can't help reading the second
book walking away with the idea that, wait a second, maybe you and I are just part of
a big cell.
We're two enzymes and these ideas that we're kicking back and forth are like that enzyme
making.
We're making ideas here.
These ideas build up and all of a sudden, somebody becomes a grower.
Boom.
Wow, this is the same thing that happens inside an individual cell.
Maybe we're just one of 37 trillion cells in a gigantic cannabis plant.
Okay, I'm done.
It's just a difference of magnitude.
You can't just read these books.
You got to sit back after you read them and ingest a little bit of this wonderful chemical
and let the cannabinoids help you think about what you're doing from a 360 degree way up
in the air view.
When you have the science from these books, you can do that.
Did you say in that last bit that you don't recommend flushing?
I don't.
I don't recommend flushing and I don't recommend using kelp for the reason that people use
kelp.
The plant has these 18 nutrients.
You put kelp down.
It's got 56, 62 nutrients.
They don't need the rest of those nutrients.
You put the kelp down to feed the soil food web.
Yes, but not to feed the plant really.
And then flushing, I mean, why do people flush?
If you're feeding your plant properly and it's growing properly, it's balanced properly,
what are you flushing out?
What do you flush out?
You flush out carbohydrates.
I mean, I can't think of anything else you can flush out.
Well, it seems to be a holdover from people still using bottled salt nutrients, right?
And most of the hardcore probiotic growers are like, eh, what's the point?
Once you're all green.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, even with the salts, I mean, I got a question.
You can, if you go hydroponically, basically as far as I'm concerned, you can almost always
taste the chemical.
You can flush all you want.
What do you think you're doing?
You're growing in water.
That's flushing.
I don't get it.
I just don't get it.
Right on.
So another question comes in from Seabass Wolf.
He asked, what mycelium from my home garden or a nearby forest could I dig up and use
on my cannabis plants?
What plants or trees and nature would provide good mycelium starts for me to mix into my
soil?
Okay.
Great question.
You know, first of all, not from your trees because your trees use the other kind, which
is the ectomycorrhizal.
Cannabis plants.
And notice I say cannabis.
I think using the word marijuana is still racist.
It was racist when it started back in the 1930s.
So I don't use it.
I use the word cannabis.
It gurgles me that Alaska, for example, has the marijuana act.
Oregon has the Oregon marijuana program.
No, it should be called cannabis.
But anyway, where was that question again?
What mycelium from his home garden can he use?
So trees, no.
Trees, no good.
Cannabis requires that one that I mentioned, the rhizophagus.
Rhizophagus, you all wrote it down, right?
And you can get it from carrots.
I think peonies.
I believe potatoes.
So there are some things that you grow in your garden that also use the same fungi.
But why not use your previous plants?
Yeah, right on.
Because we know it's there because it's their main source.
We certainly hope it's there.
And it's certainly there if you put it there.
So it makes a great deal of sense.
The other thing that I think people are beginning to notice, at least I've been told this number
of people who do know, and that is that when you grow in a container, you get some pretty
quick multiplication of the spores.
When you grow in a field situation or a big bed situation, you get the mycelium.
And it turns out that when that mycelium is broken up, it will produce propagules that
will grow into the...
Or will actually act as spores and grow new fungi.
So it's pretty cheap to buy, particularly when you know that you only need the one.
It gets more expensive when you're buying seven and eight or nine different kinds.
So now that you know what to look for on the package, you just buy the one.
You might want to be thinking that way.
Right on.
So here's kind of a fun one.
A listener, Tony Leyva of Boneyard Seeds in the Emerald Triangle down there, writes to
ask if you have any particular cannabis cultivars that you personally like for ease of growth,
yield, and the terpene profile.
Well, my all-time favorite is Durban Poison.
I mean, who doesn't like Durban Poison?
Quick grower, beautiful plant, best terpene taste I can think of.
God, I love it.
Here in Alaska, we've had a funny situation.
It's been legal here in Alaska in the privacy of your home, tent, hotel room, et cetera.
And so we've been growing it here forever.
And for years and years and years, we grew two things.
The first was what people euphemistically call MTF.
And I don't know whether we all had that.
But it was always the same stuff.
And so for, I swear to God, for five or 10 years, we were all smoking the same stuff.
You know, it got pretty boring.
Then Northern Lights appeared.
So then, okay.
Now, of course, we've got legalization.
But we've got a very interesting problem here, and that is our day length situation does
not coincide properly with the temperature.
And so when you live in Alaska, you have this wonderful burst of daylight.
And if you use light deprivation, you can have a phenomenal crop.
But if you've just got a regular backyard greenhouse, it gets cold before the plant
sets the flowers fully.
It didn't last year.
It was the first year ever, and people were just rejoicing beyond belief.
And so we're limited to what we can grow.
And a lot of people grow auto flowers.
And when you grow auto flowers, you don't end up with clones.
You don't end up with giving seeds to other people.
And so there really isn't sort of a, you know, what do you like to grow?
I like to grow auto flowers because they're easy.
But see, they're all different.
You never know what you're getting.
But to go back again, if I had my way, oh, God, the whole world would be growing Durban
poison.
Right on.
So the last question for you, Mike Flanagan writes in to ask about your thoughts on Korean
natural farming.
Yeah.
Well, you know, and interestingly enough, teaming with microbes, which has been translated
into I think nine languages now, was early on translated into Korean.
And I couldn't figure out why.
It's called Kamsahamnida Amoeba, which I love.
And every now and then I'll go into a Korean restaurant here in Anchorage and I like to
bring the book with me.
And they're very impressed that and and sixteen dollars and fifty cents gets me a pretty good
Korean meal here.
But anyway, you know, it is a it is a form of soil food web gardening, I guess, if that's
what you want to call using beneficial organisms.
There's there's, you know, it's it's very similar to EM lactic acid bacteria.
It's got about six or seven or eight really key bacterias.
And it's, you know, it cycles the nutrients, uses mycorrhizal.
It's not different from a soil food web system.
It's just that there's a bunch of different ways that to add amendments so that there's
fermented fruit juices and fermented plant juices and amino acid juices and all sorts
of nutrient mixes that you can make.
And yeah, I think, you know, I mean, I think it certainly works.
It is a variation of adding either foods or minerals.
I mean, or minerals are some of the foods, foods or microbes, so that the soil food web
will give the plant the the microbes it needs to work with.
Right on.
Yeah.
It's you know, it's a lot of work, but you know, and it's very interesting.
And I can't see how you can't go through the Korean system without learning a tremendous
amount of stuff.
It's almost like biodynamic farming.
Yeah.
I think that it's for somebody who's moved beyond their compost teas and the basics,
Korean natural farming and even very specifically the fermented, the juice ferments are really
exciting and nerdy.
Well, yeah.
I mean, but I think there's also animal involvement and all sorts of stuff.
So yeah, I mean, you know, and let's face it, there's some spectacular, spectacular
farms and gardens in Korea.
It must work.
Jeff, thanks so much for being on the show today.
This has been really exhilarating and has opened so many new doors for folks.
I really appreciate you sharing your time with us.
Well, I hope we get to meet again.
And any time you want to have a guest who you can hardly shut up, you give me a ring.
Jeff Lowenfels is the author of the books Teaming with Microbes, Teaming with Nutrients
and Teaming with Fungi.
You can find links to those books on the Shaping Fire page for this episode or by going directly
to Jeff's website at www.jefflowenfels.com.
You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the show at
shapingfire.com and on Apple iTunes, Stitcher and Google Play.
If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it if you'd leave a positive review of the
podcast wherever you download.
Your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too.
On the Shaping Fire website, you can also subscribe to the weekly newsletter for insights
into the latest cannabis news and product reviews.
On the Shaping Fire website, you will also find transcripts of today's podcast as well.
For information on me and where I will be speaking, you can check out shangolose.com.
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire.
I've been your host, Shango Lose.
