Going into the California election three weeks ago, there was a powerful schism in the cannabis
community. Everyone agreed that Proposition 64, releasing cannabis prisoners from incarceration,
was a necessary and overdue thing. And everyone also pretty much agreed that an adult use
law was necessary and overdue as well in California. The schism was whether or not you thought
the design of the cannabis market as spelled out in Proposition 64 was the right way to
legalize in California. So now that the proposition has passed, the conversation for the next
two episodes of Shaping Fire are going to focus on what comes next in California.
In today's episode, we're going to talk with Amanda Ryman of Drug Policy Alliance.
We're going to talk about the new opportunities for entrepreneurs looking to make a move in
the new adult use market. We're also going to be talking about the forthcoming state
rulemaking process and lay out some timetables for implementation. Then in the next episode,
we'll present Part 2. In Part 2, I'll talk with Hezekiah Allen of the California
Growers Association. We'll talk with him about the concerns of heritage cannabis farmers
in Northern California's Emerald Triangle and the actions they will have to take to
have a voice in the creation of the state's new adult use market. We'll also have a
detailed discussion about market consolidation in cannabis and how we might preserve diversity
in the cannabis market and save the family farm.
This week's recording does not sound quite as clear as our usual episodes. We ran into
some technical issues while recording our guest. The content is still very engaging
though, so I encourage you to turn your volume or treble down just a touch and enjoy the
show.
My guest this week is Amanda Ryman, Manager of Marijuana Law and Policy at Drug Policy
Alliance. In that role, she develops every aspect of DPA's marijuana reform work. Ryman
joined DPA in 2012 after working with the famous Berkeley Patients Group dispensary
as Director of Research and Patient Services. Ryman has conducted numerous studies on medical
marijuana dispensaries, patients, and the use of marijuana as treatment for addiction,
regularly presenting her research at the conferences of the American Public Health Association,
American Psychiatric Association, International Cannabinoid Research Society, and the Harm
Reduction Coalition. Ryman served as the first chairwoman of the Medical Cannabis Commission
for the City of Berkeley, currently serves on the Cannabis Regulatory Commission for
the City of Oakland, and has consulted with various cities, states, and nations on the
development of medical marijuana policy. Ryman is currently a lecturer in the School of Social
Welfare at the University of California, Berkeley, where she teaches drug and alcohol policy,
substance abuse treatment, and sexuality and social work. Ryman earned her BA in Psychology
from the University of Illinois Chicago and her Master's Degree in Social Work from
the Jane Addams College of Social Work. Ryman moved to Oakland in 2002 to attend the University
of California, Berkeley, where she earned her PhD in Social Work in 2006. Ryman's dissertation,
Cannabis Care, was the first study focusing on how medical marijuana dispensaries operate
as health care service providers.
Welcome to the show, Amanda.
Thanks for having me.
I'm so glad that you could make time with your busy schedule. Are things calming down
for you a little bit more now that the election is over?
Well, yes and no. Of course, we are really excited that Prop 64 had victory here in California,
but we're also looking to the horizon and with questions about what the new administration
means for this new industry.
Amen. Everybody's kind of scared about what the next move of the president-elect may be,
but luckily we don't have to talk about that one today. We just need to tackle California
itself. And everybody's excited because now there's more clarity than there had been before.
Before medical existed, parts of it were not quite as legal as some folks wanted entrepreneur-wise
to get involved. But now with a clear green light from the state, folks are ready to jump
in and to bring their skills from other industries.
So we know that California is going to be a multi-billion dollar industry in and of
itself. As far as the number of participants, though, do we have any idea of how many cannabis
companies will likely be formed in California now?
Oh, well, there'll be thousands. I mean, we're not just talking about companies that actually
touch the plant, right? So companies that grow the plant, that process the plant, that
distribute the plant, but all of the ancillary services that go along with the cannabis industry,
especially in the tech sector. And I think that given that California has such a reputation
of being innovators when it comes to technology, that we're going to see a huge cannabis tech
sector in California, as well as the agricultural sector that comes with actually producing
the plant.
And I think that's a really good point to make because there are so many people who
see the opportunity in cannabis and they want to participate, but it doesn't mean that they
have to go through the highly regulatory structure of getting a license or even dealing with
the plant. There are so many support opportunities. When it comes to the licenses themselves,
though, let's talk about those and break those out a little bit because California has gotten
more, a higher, more variety of licenses than any other state has legalized at this point.
What are the different licenses?
Well, the licenses were really outlined first under our Medical Cannabis Regulation and
Safety Act, which was passed in 2015 by Governor Brown. As you mentioned, even though we've
had medical cannabis in California for 20 years, we've been lacking a state level regulatory
system, meaning that anyone that's operating a medical cannabis currently in California
is doing so under a local license. And this is primarily just retailers. We really haven't
seen the licensing of cultivation, manufacturing. So our Medical Cannabis Regulation and Safety
Act outlined licenses for this purpose and then Prop 64 adopted that licensing structure
with a few key differences. So both the medical program and Prop 64 outline licensing, not
just for different activities, but different levels of production within those activities.
I think that the ... Oh, go ahead. Finish.
Well, I was going to say, so there's different types. So we cover cultivation, testing, manufacturing,
transportation, retail. But within each license category, there's room for small growers versus
big growers, delivery services versus brick and mortar dispensaries. So even within each
type of license, there's variability based on how big you are and the exact type of company
you want to have. So for example, volatile extractions via butane and other combustibles
is regulated differently than non-volatile extraction, such as temperature or agitation.
I think that we'll find that California going ahead and blessing the kind of model that
they used for medical with some changes and making it adult use will have a lot more success
like in Colorado, which used a similar model of blessing what they already have versus
the kind of mess that they have in Washington, where they set aside medical and created something
entirely new from scratch, reinventing it as they went. I think that with as big as
the market's going to be in California, that's one big advantage from day one that will be
helpful to entrepreneurs there.
Oh, I agree. And I think that, honestly, one of the reasons why after 20 years, the legislature
finally did pass something in California for medical is because they knew that adult use
was on the horizon. And they understood because of what happened in states like Washington
versus states like Colorado, that it made sense to set out a structure for medical cannabis
and create that system alongside the adult use system. Or what would happen would be
similar to Washington, which is to see the medical system just kind of get usurped into
the adult use system and see patients not have the same kind of access or the same kind
of price discount that they should have given their patient status.
While we're talking about medical, there was a lot of concern before the election that
Proposition 64 would harken the end of the medical market. And there were no provisions
put in the proposition to exclude it. If anything, there were provisions to protect it. But based
on what we saw in Washington, what do you think the likelihood is that now that commercial
adult use cannabis is legal, that the commercial lobbyists will seek to squeeze out medical
because that's now a competing market?
Well, I don't think it's going to be a competing market. I think what's more likely to happen
in the coming legislative session is a reconciliation of Prop 64 and MCRSA. They have the same agencies
governing the two programs. There's no differences in the types of products that adult users
can access versus medical users. So what I think we're likely to see at the end of the
day is a consolidated system where patients get a financial break on the cost of the medicine
and those who are 18, 19, and 20 years old can access cannabis with a doctor's recommendation
and that the price break for those individuals is subsidized by the taxes paid by adult users.
I think that that's more likely going to be the model we'll end up seeing given that the
regulations for medical and for adult use are so similar.
Well, it sounds like the integration of how they are going to be regulated and since they're
going to be regulated by the same body will definitely decrease conflict at the regulatory
side. I just can't help but think that the lobbyists in commercial will do everything
that they can to squeeze medical so that they can start selling to those patients as well
and maybe with a different tax rate, but to capture those folks anyway. Do you think that
people, since they're selling the same things, won't people still tend to want to use their
medical cards just to be able to get the better price in the medical market?
Well, I think it's primarily going to be what I call a Costco model where if you're somebody
that uses cannabis frequently, whether that be for whatever reason, it makes more sense
for you to get a medical card because you're going to get a tax break every time you use
it versus somebody that uses cannabis maybe every once in a while and doesn't really make
sense for them to go and get a medical card and they'd rather just pay the tax.
I think that there'll be options for people who based on how frequently they use cannabis,
the thing is, is that even though we haven't had state level regulations for 20 years,
we absolutely have an industry. So Chibichu, Kiva, Bang, I mean, all of these companies
have been in California dispensaries for years now. And so it's not as if there's a whole
new flood or room for a whole new flood of commercial products in California at the moment
because we really do have quite a variety of commercial cannabis providers right now
today in the state of California. So while I do think that there will be some diversification
because there may be products that people in the adult use market want more often, such
as low dose, we're seeing, you know, adult users more interested in low dose products
where patients are looking for higher dose products. So we will see some diversification.
But at the end of the day, patients will have access to the same products and the same name
brands that they have right now.
You know, the point that California already has a strong pre-existing market was made,
oh, I guess it was three shows ago. We had Dr. Dominic Corva on the show from Casp and
he made the point, he says, you know, everybody's talking about the green rush and the new green
rush in California, but really, you know, California started a green rush in the 1970s
and it's just never stopped.
That's accurate. That's absolutely accurate. And, you know, when I go and give talks to
younger folks today who want to get in the industry or are interested in it, I say, you
know, you're not going to be a master cultivator and you're probably not going to have a dispensary.
You know, these jobs are taken and, you know, our job with regulation is to allow people
who have already been working in this industry an entree into the legal market. It's not
to pave the way for all kinds of new companies to come in.
And so, you know, we want folks who are already operating to be able to come into compliance.
And I think that's where we need to focus on first, because we do have so many operators
already here in California.
I think that's a really good point. And I want to talk more about the specifics of the
opportunities for potential new entrepreneurs.
Let's go ahead and take our first short break. You are listening to Shaping Fire.
As a business owner, you are incredibly busy. In reality, you are responsible for everything
your company does. You have so many responsibilities every single day that often you just don't
have the time to really dig into something as deeply as you'd like.
You know there is more that you could do to reach out to new customers and to encourage
loyalty in the customers you already have. But you certainly don't have the time and
you're not ready to hire someone full-time for that role either.
For you, I recommend blunt branding.
Blunt branding principles Kirsten Nelson and Anthony Garcia are focused on improving your
bottom line. You know, most marketing firms are excited to make your logo, packaging,
and website very pretty. But they leave responsibility for improving your bottom line up to you.
They don't want that kind of responsibility.
But that is pretty much the most important part of marketing, right? Kirsten and Anthony
will help you engage new customers, funnel them to your point of sale, and keep them
coming back to you and telling their friends.
No doubt, this is a paid commercial spot, but that does not mean they bought my opinion.
I've worked with blunt branding on three projects now for various clients and every
single time they have done more than they have promised and over-delivered on results.
I love how they generate new revenue and focus on that as the goal instead of just making
me a pretty logo.
Similarly, every friend I've referred them to has come back to thank me. And that just
does not happen every day.
So grab a pen and paper because the website address is coming.
If you want someone to implement marketing programs that feed your bottom line, give
blunt branding a call. They will share proven techniques to increase your audience and generate
sales while using cutting-edge technology in the background that make all of this easy,
automatic, and trackable.
Go to shapingfire.com forward slash blunt branding to find out more. You can also click
the link in our weekly newsletter.
Blunt branding. Marketing that makes you money.
Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire. I'm your host, Shango Lowe. And our
guest this week is Amanda Ryman of Drug Policy Alliance.
So Amanda, right before the break, you said something that stuck out for me. You said
that the way that things are set up now, there's not really a lot of room being created for
new companies. That really the focus right now is going to be the pre-existing market
that exists in California, moving into the licensed structure. Can you break that out
for a little bit for me more? Because a lot of people who are listening to the show are
thinking about, okay, now that adult use is legal, let's take our skills and move into
California cannabis. And your suggestions seem to be that just because the law has been
passed doesn't necessarily mean there's a ton of room for new companies.
Well, I first want to make the point that under Prop 64, there is a California residency
requirement. So you had to have been a resident of California, I believe back from 2015. And
that residency requirement is until 2019. So if you're out there somewhere else in the
United States and you live somewhere else and you're thinking, I'm going to move to
California and get a license, you are not. Because we wanted to, again, ensure that those
that have already been living and working in the industry in California have priority.
And there's also priority to already existing companies, meaning dispensaries, manufacturers
that have already been existing, but in this kind of gray, locally regulated area also
have first priority. But that doesn't mean that there's not room. I think it's really
about where the need is going to be. And in California, the need is not for people to
grow cannabis or sell cannabis, or even make cannabis products. In California, the need
is helping these companies come into compliance. So the need is for software and for packaging
and for sustainable agriculture methods and things that are going to help those that are
working in the industry make the leap from the gray market to a very heavily regulated
system here in California. And I think the opportunities there are pretty much endless
because you're going to have a ton of businesses that have been operating in a way that is
not satisfactory to California regulatory standards. And we're going to have seed to
sale and all of these things that go along with regulation. And we're going to have to
have companies that can help those in existence comply and be legal, especially given the
scrutiny we'll likely face at the federal level.
I think that's an interesting aspect to point out there that just because licenses may not
be the way to go, doesn't mean that our listeners need to feel crestfallen that they somehow
can't get into the cannabis industry. Because as I tell my clients all the time, if you
can come up with an idea that does not need a license, you'll have so much an easier time
your business because your regulatory structure will be so much less. And that when it comes
to moving into any new industry, but especially the cannabis industry, that decreasing your
risk as much as possible is the name of the day. So if folks are listening and they're
like, oh wow, are you telling me that all the growers are already there? It's like,
yeah, that might be the case, but that doesn't mean that there isn't tons of opportunity
for ancillary business models.
Absolutely. Anything that will help those in the industry do things to be more compliant,
to make things more seamless, introducing processes to streamline, to make it easier
for people in every level of production. We haven't had that. We've had people doing the
jobs. We've had really no infrastructure in this industry. And that's what's going to
be needed in order to keep up and satisfy the regulatory demand.
So let's talk a little bit about rulemaking because the proposition only goes so far itself.
And then there are groups that then have to jump in to regulate their part of the bigger
pie. And as we've found in the states that are already legalizing, sometimes that secondary
wave of rulemaking can get awfully messy. So who is actually going to be implementing
Proposition 64 in California? And what does that look like for folks who are trying to
understand the landscape?
So both MCRSA and Prop 64 hand over the regulatory structure and rulemaking to the Bureau of
Marijuana Regulation, which is at the state level. It's a state agency and it includes
representatives from the Department of Food and Ag, the Department of Public Health, the
Board of Equalization, the Department of Consumer Affairs. And it also has an advisory board
made up of those folks plus researchers from the public health field, people from the cannabis
industry itself, patients, so people that have a vested interest.
And Prop 64 and MCRSA really set out a blueprint for what regulation will look like. And now
it's up to this bureau and with feedback from folks in the state and in the industry to
fill in the blanks. Over the next year, not only is the bureau going to be doing their
due diligence and reaching out to farmers and others to figure out the best way to implement
these practices given what's already happening in California, but we're also going to have
to figure out how the licenses are going to work, how you apply for a license, to kind
of get all of those wheels in motion. That's something that will also happen at the state
level.
So what's the timeframe looking like? Everybody was excited after the election two weeks ago,
but now that maybe even the harder work has to happen of making this all real, how long
are we looking before the first licenses are going to be handed out? Obviously, these are
going to be estimates, but what are you thinking?
Well, the mandate from the initiative is that January 2018, that the state has to start
issuing licenses by January 2018. So it'll take about a year. That's what we saw in Colorado
and elsewhere. Now, of course, what we saw in Oregon was that the state allowed dispensaries
to start serving adults before the licenses officially came out for the adult use only
stores. And so we may see something similar here in California, given that we do have
licensed dispensaries across the state. I wouldn't necessarily be surprised if we saw
the Bureau getting close to that date, maybe not quite ready to launch everything, see
a compromise with, well, if you're a licensed dispensary, you can now start serving people
21 and up who don't have a doctor's recommendation, given that the products are the same.
Now in Oregon, that wasn't the case. Medical patients had access to different products
than adult users. Namely, medical patients had access to things besides flowers. Here
in California, both groups have access to everything. So it wouldn't be unheard of for
someone who's now serving patients with a doctor's note to open up that service to those
21 and up.
My gosh, that would be such a windfall for all those retailers. My goodness, that they're
already up and going. And then as part of the transition, they might be able to sell
to anyone who's over 21. Wow, what an opportunity.
It would be. But then again, you have to remember that here in California, it's no trick to
get a doctor's recommendation. So for the most part, a lot of the medical cannabis population
here in California resembles the adult use population. So different than in other states
where you have very restricted lists of conditions for which people can become patients, the
adult use market is quite different than the medical market. It's not necessarily the
same here in California.
So over the next year, the new regulations are going to come together. How to apply for
these licenses will come together. And also the folks who don't want to see this happen
will be making their moves too. In other states, we have seen challenges with moratoria by
local municipalities. Does it look like there will be zoning issues in California like that
too, where this is passed at the state level, but individual cities will pass a moratorium
that says, no, you can't do cannabis business here?
Oh, absolutely. We've already seen that. We saw places passing that before Prop 64 even
passed. It's no secret that California is a bit divided on this issue. And you have
localities in the Bay Area and elsewhere that are very proactive, that are really wanting
to study this issue and bring cannabis to their localities in a respectful way. And
then you have places that just hate cannabis and they're going to ban it outright and they
want nothing to do with it. The thing about Prop 64 is that it denies local revenue to
localities that ban commercial cannabis businesses.
So while I think a lot of these bans are reactionary, what we'll see is that counties and cities
whose neighbors are regulating commercially, their residents are just going to drive 10
miles down the road, buy cannabis, and then all the tax revenue is going to go to their
neighboring city. So we do see even a patchwork of alcohol regulation here in California with
counties regulating alcohol differently, but the decision to become a dry county or a dry
city definitely has economic implications. Now, the one thing that localities cannot
do is they cannot ban personal cultivation for adults. So the ability for each household
to cultivate six plants indoors or outdoors in an enclosed structure away from public
view, that right went into effect November 9th and localities are not allowed to ban
that activity.
What's the nature of the difference in legality between a city hosting a business versus a
city banning individual personal grows? What's the difference between those legally that
one can be done away with at the local level and the other cannot?
Well, you're really giving a city the right to regulate commercial activity within its
borders, not personal activity. So if you legalize possession of cannabis, the cultivation
of cannabis as a legal personal activity, the city does not have the right to ban that
activity. They can tell you where you can do it, which we already did in the proposition.
We said you either have to do it indoors or if you're trying to do it outdoors, it has
to be away from public view to cut down on the risk of robbery. So a locality cannot
make a decision to not uphold the rights given to an individual under the proposition. What
they can do is make the decision about which commercial enterprises they want existing
within their borders.
And that's another vote for entrepreneurs to start ancillary businesses as well, because
if you're not holding a license, you're just an HR company or a marketing company or a
software company with cannabis clients versus having a license and having to be worrying
about local moratoria.
That's true. I mean, that's definitely true in terms of getting a business license and
getting into the business. But just as a cautionary tale, we have had several reports recently
of people who are involved in ancillary businesses related to the cannabis industry, like legal
work that have been denied home loans and other types of financial benefits because
of the nature of their work. So just because you're not selling cannabis or growing cannabis
doesn't mean there's not a risk that you're taking being involved with the industry. And
that's one of the reasons why it's so important for anybody that wants to get involved in
the industry to understand the movement and to understand the activism that comes with
being a part of this industry.
Because if you're not ready to be an activist, I would caution you against getting involved
in the cannabis industry.
That's another good point that you were making because a lot of folks are like, okay, the
law has passed, the activism has been done. I can just come on in and start my business
now. And it's like, oh, no, no, you're playing it too simple.
Cannabis entrepreneurs have got to be activists, both to protect their turf from moratoria,
to make sure that it doesn't get rolled back, and also to be active in the state legislature
so that as the rulemaking evolves, it evolves in ways that don't exclude or challenge their
own business model.
Oh, absolutely. And I have to say, I've been so impressed with the sun-grown farmers and
their willingness to engage with the Bureau during this rulemaking period. Because that's
kind of one of the biggest mysteries is like cannabis farming and what are the costs associated
with it, what's the best way to tax it and regulate it. And without the cannabis farmers
themselves coming forward and being open and honest about what they're doing and how it
works best, we would definitely not be as far as we are in terms of acknowledging the
usefulness of sun-grown cannabis.
So it really takes people willing to come out and to be honest about their thoughts
and feelings about the issue, but you have to be aware and educated on the issue before
you can be an effective advocate.
We are going to take another short break and be right back. You are listening to Shaping
Fire.
Businesses everywhere are constantly striving to reach out to people through advertising.
We all know though that trying to reach a cannabis audience with a quality message is
pretty difficult. That's why many people choose to advertise on the Shaping Fire podcast.
Advertising on this show allows us time to talk about your product, service or brand
in a way that really lets people know what sets your company apart from others. Bold
people who own companies know that getting into relationship with their customers is
essential. That is what we offer.
We will explain your service or product and what sets it apart as desirable and help our
audience get in contact with you. It's pretty simple really. Advertising does not have to
be all whiz-bang, smoke and mirrors. Nowadays I find that people prefer just to be spoken
to calmly, accurately and with good intentions. If you want to make your own commercial spot,
you can do that too.
Because the podcast is young but growing at an exceptionally fast rate, if you become
an advertiser on the Shaping Fire podcast now, you are going to pay a fraction of the
cost we will be asking for in just a few months. And yet everyone listening both now and to
the back catalog of interviews later will hear about your company again and again for
years. It's a great deal for you. Pay a small amount now because the show is new, but take
advantage of the huge listening audience we will have forever.
Do yourself a solid and contact us today for rates on podcast and newsletter advertising.
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out more.
http://TheBusinessProfessor.com
http://TheBusinessProfessor.com
http://TheBusinessProfessor.com
http://TheBusinessProfessor.com
http://TheBusinessProfessor.com
http://TheBusinessProfessor.com
http://TheBusinessProfessor.com
http://TheBusinessProfessor.com
http://TheBusinessProfessor.com
http://TheBusinessProfessor.com
http://TheBusinessProfessor.com
http://TheBusinessProfessor.com
http://TheBusinessProfessor.com
http://TheBusinessProfessor.com
http://TheBusinessProfessor.com
http://TheBusinessProfessor.com
http://TheBusinessProfessor.com
http://TheBusinessProfessor.com
http://TheBusinessProfessor.com
http://TheBusinessProfessor.com
http://TheBusinessProfessor.com
http://TheBusinessProfessor.com
http://TheBusinessProfessor.com
http://TheBusinessProfessor.com
http://TheBusinessProfessor.com
http://TheBusinessProfessor.com
http://TheBusinessProfessor.com
http://TheBusinessProfessor.com
http://TheBusinessProfessor.com
http://TheBusinessProfessor.com
http://TheBusinessProfessor.com
http://TheBusinessProfessor.com
http://TheBusinessProfessor.com
http://TheBusinessProfessor.com
http://TheBusinessProfessor.com
