The breeding of cannabis seeds is elegant and thoughtful and inspired, and we've talked
about that here before.
But actually doing the work to bring those seeds to market can be brutal.
After you go through the work of carefully crafting and breeding your seed stock, you
still have to sort and quality check thousands of seeds, design packaging and have it manufactured,
assemble the final product, rock the social media to reach out and inspire fans, reach
out to stores and online retailers to carry your seeds, travel all across the country
to attend shows, pay extra for everything because you're a cannabis company, and deal
with thieves and grifters and folks wanting to test your seeds.
And this is all before you've been paid even a dime for any of your breeding talent.
Any kind of startup is hard, I know, but a new cannabis seed startup is usually a one-person
job until the company grows enough to hire help.
It's grueling hours, lots of travel, and it requires an incredible amount of patience.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, business and technique efficiently and with
good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
We'll send you a new podcast episode as they come out, delivered right to your inbox,
along with commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week and videos,
too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published.
Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode.
Also, we're giving away very cool prizes to folks who are signed up to receive the
newsletter.
There's nothing else you need to do to win except receive the newsletter.
This month, I'm really stoked that we're giving away several newly released AirVape
X vaporizers from AirVapeUSA.com.
Go to shapingfire.com to sign up for the newsletter before June 30th and be entered into this
month's and all future newsletter prize drawings.
Also, remember that we have a thriving YouTube channel, too, with original content separate
from what you hear on the podcast.
Right now, we're featuring a series of interview questions with Kevin Jodry of Wonderland Nursery.
We have nearly 100 videos that you will see nowhere else, so check it out at youtube.com
forward slash shango-los or just search Shaping Fire on YouTube.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I'm your host, Shango Los.
My guest today is Eric Wimber.
Eric is founder, breeder, and head of operations of Dungeons Vault Genetics.
His boutique cannabis seeds company is sweeping the industry with a unique line of pungent
and potent cannabis strains.
His strains have won over 10 cannabis cups in just the last two years, including first
place just recently in the 2018 Aloha Cup in Hawaii.
Today we're going to talk about the seed game.
Welcome to the show, Eric.
Hey, thanks for having me.
I appreciate it.
Well, you know, let's go ahead and start right at the beginning, right?
Because part of what we want to talk about today is the arc that somebody who wants to
start a seed company would take from deciding that they want to climb this hill versus when
they're starting to win cups.
So where did you learn your skills?
Did you have a mentor or an internship?
How did you get into the scene?
You know, basically from the time I was a young kid on, I think I just had a really
very peaked interest in cannabis.
I was turned on to it by a neighbor who, he showed me some killer herb and he was very
into High Times Magazine back in the day.
So he kind of showed me that kind of got me going and I really started focusing a lot
of my attention on the different strains and all these different varieties of cannabis
around the world.
I think it wasn't until I hooked up with a guy that introduced me to kinestas from
Granddaddy that I really took a stance toward the breeding aspect.
I had thought about it before, but it was never really something that I had considered.
I always thought it was going to be a lot harder and I left that up for the pros to
do.
So it was kind of out of sight, out of mind.
But working with Granddaddy, it kind of opened up the doors.
It showed me what people were after.
I knew I wanted to create things that I wanted to smoke and I figured if I'm putting things
out that I like to smoke, other people would enjoy it as well.
So that's sort of how it went.
He had some following out with some employees and so I was upgraded from seed rep and online
sales guy to full blown breeder for kin.
So that sort of put a fire under my ass and really brought the light on the whole situation.
I think that's a good thing to point out too, that you started at the bottom, right?
You started doing sales for somebody else.
There's a lot of people who want to get into, well, every part of this industry and they
want to start at the top, right?
It's like, no man, a lot of people, you start at the bottom and you learn your skills.
That way when you go ahead to start your own business, you've already done all the jobs
from sweeping the floors all the way up and it gives you better skills to run the company.
So when you were, air quotes, breeding at Granddaddy, what did that actually involve?
Were you doing big sifts or was this more like manufacturing lines that were pre-existing?
I came on board with literally absolutely nothing.
We had all of our original clone stock was stripped from us.
The guys who were working with him out in Oakland and NorCal, they all literally left
one day.
Everyone grabbed their shit and left and just left him high and dry.
It was a weird situation and he knew that he was, we had a very popular brand.
We were doing really well at Attitude Seed Bank.
He needed some help so I basically started over with everything.
We had our GDP line, which we were most known for.
So I used a GDP male and another male, which was a Tahoe G times Granddaddy perp and that
was pretty much our bread and butter.
That started the whole new line.
I did, I think, 11 or 12 new strains for him.
Recreated the Candyland, which was lost.
They lost that one completely.
So I redid it and again, made it sold out.
Right on.
You know, it's kind of funny.
A lot of people say, oh, somebody or other, they got a break, right?
It's like, yeah, you definitely got a break, but you had already been there for a long
time slanging somebody else's seeds and you just happened to be there for the break, right?
People say, oh, that's luck.
That's putting in your time.
Oh yeah, no, I started at the bottom.
There was years, two, three plus years of me literally not getting paid anything but
seeds and then getting to, I got to keep some part of my sales, but that sales are made
by me driving around all over the state and hitting the stores hard, back when medical
days was going on.
So I was hitting up every single store from Olympia to Seattle and above there trying
to sell them seeds.
So it was one of those things like I had to put a lot of time and effort in before I was
even granted the opportunity to breed for him.
And even then that came with a lot of, you know, there was a lot of things attached to
it, you know, and a lot of drama and a lot of things that you might not expect.
So I kind of had a, not a shoe in, that's definitely not the word to say, but I kind
of had, since we already had a good thing going, it couldn't have worked out better
is what I'm getting at because we had already had, the ball was already rolling.
Whereas if someone who was just getting started, it's going to be a hell of a lot harder
to just pop up in the scene and be like, hi, I'm a new breeder, take my stuff.
It takes a little bit to get accepted.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And it's funny how much staying in cannabis is not getting sucked into drama, especially
in the seed scene, right?
There's so much drama in seeds that a lot of the work is actually not getting yourself
sucked into that politics.
Very much so.
I mean, I might have a little bit of a problem keeping my mouth shut at times because it's
hard.
You have so many people that want to give their opinion and say something completely
negative or off topic and just basically just talk shit.
So it's one of those things.
You can be the bigger person, say, you know what, I'm not going to say it, I'm not going
to respond, give them the pleasure of it.
Or you can just be like, you know what, I'm going to go a different route.
I'm just going to be the guy that sticks up for himself and I'll just say what's on my
mind because I don't really, I mean, I care what people think of me obviously, but I want
them to know that I'm not going to just be a pushover.
If you have something to say, I'll say something right back.
I treat people with as much respect as you'll give me and we can all be friends.
But it's very, very drama filled industry.
I tell you what, it's like high school all over again.
There's cliques, there's people that they shake in your hand, you're talking, everything's
all good.
As soon as you walk away, it's fuck that guy.
It really just depends.
But yeah, it's a good thing.
It's probably best to just stay out of the drama and just kind of focus on your brand.
I should probably take my own advice a little bit more.
It's really, it's cutthroat industry, man, it really is.
Yeah.
So at some point, you're working over at Granddaddy and you had this idea like, you know what,
I want to grow the kind of stuff.
I want to breed the kind of stuff that I want to smoke.
Did that happen early on when you were still selling or did that idea occur to you once
you had already started breeding at Ken's?
I think a little bit of both really because knowing what we want to achieve and my own
knowledge, he only gave me the opportunity I was given based on him seeing how I treated
the weed, how I talked about it.
He could see I was passionate.
I had a lot of knowledge in the strain, history of strains, excuse me.
So he was very into my opinion and what I could come up with.
And so I think he was, as soon as I started talking to him and showing him, he just trusted
me from the jump and knew that there was going to be some good things that came from it.
And sure enough, they did.
So we had some good things come, a lot of really popular strains.
Some of the lines, like I said before, were totally sold out on attitude and continued
to be as long as we could produce the seeds, they were gone.
So it was good.
Was there some time that there was an overlap between when you started Dungeons Vault and
were still over at Granddaddy or was there a clean break between the two?
Oh, it was 100% clean break.
I mean, I don't want to get into too much of the nitty gritty of what happened, but
at the same time, it's all over the internet.
I've been very vocal about what happened.
I was working with Ken.
We had a big falling out and just like any other job, I called him up and said, hey,
you know what?
This is me putting my resignation in.
I wish you the best, but I'm out.
And that was when I immediately broke ties with him.
It was December of 2014 when that happened.
And literally, the idea was already sparked in my head of Dungeons Vault Genetics.
I jokingly tossed the name around back in 2009 to, actually it was Red Eye and Ready,
Red Eye Genetics.
I had joked him about it.
As soon as I broke away from Ken, the idea was just already there and I jumped with it
immediately.
All right.
So let's take us back to that day.
So you decided that you are on your own feet now and Dungeons Vault is going to be real
as of today because you had just given your notice.
What were the things that you determined were the first things that you needed to get done?
Because obviously, you needed to not only get the brand up and running, but you also
needed to get something out to be able to make some money at the same time.
So what were your task priorities at that point?
Well, that's a very good question because that's kind of where I had a little bit of
trouble at early on stages.
Me starting a company and this is exactly what I was telling you about earlier.
Anybody can make seeds, but you come to the market with them and all of a sudden, it's
who are you and how did you get this and where did you get your stuff and how did you breed
these?
There's a ton of questions that come with it.
What really happened was I literally knew immediately that I had leftover stock that
wasn't taken from me when I gave Ken a ton of stuff to go sell and that was part of the
reason we had a big breakup because I never ended up getting paid for a very large quantity
of seeds that were going out to Europe.
So I never got my pay on that.
So that was kind of what started the whole split up.
I still had stock leftover from Granddaddy days.
So basically I rebranded and then that was part of the reason people were having trouble
with me because they're like, well, you broke away from Granddaddy, but you still have the
same strains as Granddaddy and you stole them, which in all reality, I never stole a thing.
I worked strains for him.
I did the work.
I did everything under my roof with my money, my lights, everything.
So nothing was stolen, but it was just odd for people to see me coming out with the same
exact ones that I'd already released under Granddaddy.
The biggest priority for me at that time was get new strains that separate yourself from
him from the whole – the split needs to happen and be completely clean and have your
own line that you're coming out with your own ideas, your own strains you did and with
no one else's input and that's exactly what I did.
Yeah, I can see how that would be both confusing because you're feeling legit.
You weren't feeling guilty at all or that you had done something wrong.
But the buying public is all like, hey man, this is kind of weird, right?
As fast as you could put those strains behind you and have your own thing going, the better.
So in those early days – well, actually, let's start with the ultra basic question.
Where did the name come for Dungeons Vault Genetics?
It's a pretty unique thing.
It's not like some kind of generic cannabis name like there are so many of them.
Where did it come from?
No, yeah.
No.
I don't know, man.
I swear.
I think for me, cannabis has been – as some people can say, hallucinogens open the doors
for certain things for their art or whatever.
Well, cannabis has made me a very creative person I think.
Really when it comes down to names and even my strain names or how I came up with Dungeons
Vault, it all comes together with me just sitting around and smoking a joint or just
thinking to myself about what sounds good or what sounds cool.
Let me say this right now.
I am not a Dungeons and Dragons fan.
I don't mind.
If you play Dungeons and Dragons, whether you were a child and played it and loved it
or you're into it as an adult, that's fine.
But I just – that was not my thing.
I never really rolled those dice.
But Dungeons Vault Genetics was something that came up.
Like I said, back in – I think it was 2009, I was online and I was making a joke about
all these guys that were talking about starting up a seed company.
I was like, oh, it's that easy and you guys are all just going to start.
I might as well do it too.
I said I'm going to start Dungeons Vault Genetics.
It was literally a joke.
I was joking when I said it but I really had thought about the name.
I thought it was a cool name but I was already working with Ken at Granddaddy and I had no
desire to leave at the time.
Everything was fine.
We were doing great.
We were killing it.
So I had no plan on leaving.
But over time, it just started making more and more sense.
But that's literally – it's just – I can't say a ton of thought went into it,
just enough to where I thought the name was cool and I just wanted to really think about
– I guess really if you think about it, a dungeon is a cool, dark place where they
keep prisoners.
So nothing about cannabis has to do with – we don't want to think about being locked up
and that's not really what I was going with.
But the dungeon is a place that's – it's locked up.
It's kept – it's under control.
So the vault, even more so, it's a locked up vault.
It's in the dungeon.
It's kept away.
It's a secret place, whatever.
So those strains, those genetics are kept up and locked up and now they're being released
to the community.
So that's kind of where I was going with it.
Yeah, right on.
That makes a lot of sense.
I love that it just started as an online stoner joke but then when the day came that
you needed a name, you're like, well, shit.
I guess I already have a name.
Let's just go with it.
Exactly.
I mean it really – it was as simple as that.
I said, wow.
Well, this couldn't have worked.
It's funny.
That's how life works sometimes.
You think about something or you put an idea down on paper and you might look at it a couple
times here and there but you don't really think that it's going to actually be something
that happens.
Then all of a sudden, it just – it's when the time is right, things work together.
I always say things happen for a reason and this worked out and it's worked out for the
better.
So I've only seen your seed packaging for say like the last three seasons or so and
the artwork, I mean it's pulled together, right?
We'll talk more about packaging itself in a couple of minutes.
But like as far as like the graphic design of your brand, you can tell – when I see
a pack of seeds, I can tell it's yours.
Your stuff has all got a similar aesthetic to it.
Is that something that you developed yourself or do you work closely with a graphic designer
who is helping you kind of line all this stuff up?
A little bit of both actually.
So let me answer that a few different ways.
So originally, the DVG logo, my shield logo and the script logo that has become so popular
that's on every one of my packaging, on my clothing and everything was actually done
by the breeder at Bay Exclusives.
My buddy who – Bay Exclusive Seeds or Bay Exclusive Genetics out of Oregon, he worked
with me very closely.
He's a good friend of mine.
He designed the DVG logo for me and we kind of talked about it and he helped me get that
going.
So he did that logo for me and then everything after that, I worked very closely with a graphic
artist I have locally and then he does all the printing, excuse me.
But then my designer is actually 420 Friendly Illustrations and he's the guy that's
been doing a lot of my art recently and has helped with my Citrus Farmer logo, the Dr.
Gonzo, the full metal jacket and he will continue to help me with these designs.
He's an incredible artist with crazy talent.
It's nice too that you can get people that have got mad talent freelance, right?
Because when a company gets big enough, sure, you can bring designers in house but it's
nice to be able to work with somebody who that you respect and produces good work but
not necessarily have to pay them for all of their time.
You can pay them for the time that you need them.
Yeah, exactly.
If you had a full-time artist on deck that was sitting there and always, I mean I would
be paying so much stinking money but what it really comes down to is each design this
guy does, he's doing a ton of work for other people.
So when I need something done, I give him some notice in advance.
We sit there, we talk about what the concept is and then we shoot back and forth ideas
and I swear it's like by the time it's done, it's like get out of my head.
It's so perfect and it's so exactly what I wanted to represent that I couldn't ask
for a better artist really.
Right on, good.
That's an awesome shout out.
So hey, let's go ahead and take our first short break and be right back.
You're listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is Eric Wimber, founder of Dungeons
Vault Genetics.
As a listener of Shaping Fire, you already understand the importance of living soil when
growing cannabis.
When you have active microbe communities in your substrate, you go way beyond simply
fertilizing with nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium.
Having active microorganisms in your substrate supports vigorous plant growth throughout
the plant's root zone making for higher yields and thriving flowers.
Mammoth pea is the first organically derived microbial inoculant that focuses on your plant's
nutrient cycling processes to release soil phosphorus and other micronutrients from their
bound forms making them more available to the plant.
Increased levels of phosphorus will also keep internodes shorter and focus your plant's
energy on bud production.
Not only that, but the microbes act as a defense shield for the plant's rhizosphere by outcompeting
potentially harmful pathogenic microbes.
Pretty cool, right?
Mammoth pea not only unlocks the nutrients in your soil, but it also helps protect your
plant from disease.
Mammoth pea's beneficial bacteria act like microbioreactors, continually producing enzymes
that release nutrients.
Mammoth pea was developed at a US university and has been extensively tested by Colorado
growers and independent laboratories.
Mammoth pea is proven to increase growth and enhance blooming.
One of the great things about supplementing with microorganisms is that they won't compete
with whatever fertilizer program you're already running.
Simply dose on top of your fertilizer schedule for increased benefits.
To learn more and to find out where you can buy mammoth pea near you, check out their
website at www.mammothmicrobes.com.
Partner with microorganisms to create beautiful, thriving cannabis.
Mammoth pea.
Join me at the upcoming CanMed event in Los Angeles for a gathering of the top minds in
cannabis medicine.
Field experts will present their latest findings and best practices in treating a variety of
conditions with cannabis, including epilepsy, pain, traumatic brain injury, cancer, autism,
and more.
Laboratory professionals will share their revolutionary technologies in cannabinoid
and terpenoid extraction, delivery methods, and quality and safety testing.
CanMed 2018 is October 22nd through 24th at the Luskin Conference Center at UCLA.
And while the final speakers list is still coming together, the speakers who are already
announced give you plenty of reasons to get your ticket today.
Prepare yourself to learn from 54 thought leader presentations focused on furthering
the convergence of medical cannabis research, treatment, and product development.
Speakers include the father of cannabis research, Rafael Mishulam.
Michael Doerr, chief medical consultant for the Israeli Ministry of Health, will be there
too.
The list of esteemed speakers participating is long and includes Shaping Fire guests,
cannabis neuroscientist Dr. Ethan Russo, and Kevin McKiernan of Medicinal Genomics.
You can view all the speakers at CanMedEvents.com.
This year's CanMed features a special education track on the application of blockchain technology
in the cannabis market, including cannabis banking, seed-to-sale tracking, sequencing
the cannabis genome, ICO financing, and more.
If you are a medical care provider, be sure to arrive a day early to participate in the
pre-conference CME course.
Find out more about that at CanMedEvents.com.
That's C-A-N-N-M-E-D-Events.com.
Ninety-five percent of attendees said CanMed 2017 met or exceeded their expectations.
That's a serious vote of confidence that CanMed 2018 will be well worth your time and resources.
So don't delay.
Visit CanMedEvents.com today to reserve your seat and find out more.
Welcome back.
You're listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose, and our guest this week is Eric Wimber, founder of Dungeons
Vault Genetics.
So during the first set, we were talking a lot about how Dungeons Vault came into being
and what your motivations are around the brand and everything.
But most of the time when I see you, Eric, you are working a booth at a cannabis event
somewhere.
Part of that, I mean, it's kind of like the Eric Wimber show, right?
Because you've got a big personality.
People are there because they follow you on Instagram and they want to see you in the
flesh because people are into their cannabis.
And so you seem like you have to put out a hell of a lot of energy when you're working.
I mean, just selling seeds itself, working a booth itself is exhausting.
But since you're the guy that a lot of people are there to see, you seem to have to work
double.
How grueling is that?
Man, I tell you, you wouldn't think that just standing there or even if I'm sitting down,
just sitting there at an event to sit there and tell people, oh my God, I'm so tired from
that.
You stood there and talked to people and smoked weed all day.
How fucking bad is that?
Really, it sounds pretty easy to me.
But really, when you are talking to that many people, I mean, I've never done a count on
how many people come through a booth or even at those events.
But there's enough there that by the end of the day, I've barely left the booth enough
to go use the restroom or get myself something to drink really quick.
I don't get to walk around very much.
My voice is gone by the end of the day or by the end of the weekend.
But I made this brand by myself.
I do a lot of this stuff with friends.
If you see people at the booth, they're usually friends of mine or guys that I work with,
a tester who I've become great friends with who show up at these events and help me out.
But for the most part, I do everything myself and I like to talk to the people.
I like to be the one behind the booth selling the seeds.
I like to do everything.
I have my hands on everything and know what's being said because I want my company represented
in a good way and I want people to walk away knowing that they had their questions answered
and or that they have all the knowledge they needed when they made that purchase.
I mean, let's be real here.
No matter how much money you make, if you spend any sort of amount of money on seeds,
not only are you investing that money that it's harder and money, but you are going to
invest a lot of time into those things.
So you want to know anything that you want to know about that strain should be answered
at that booth by a knowledgeable staff.
And if I don't have someone there that I know can answer that question with 100% confidence,
then I'll be right there standing behind them helping anything I can.
Would you find that the kind of questions that people ask you at the booth are almost
entirely about the seeds and cannabis botany and how to grow them and those kind of specifics?
Or do you find that actually that's a lesser amount of the questions and lots of people
actually want to get selfies with you and just talk shop or tell you how much they love
Citrus Farmer?
How much of it is people really needing to know that kind of information?
It's a little bit.
It's mixed because you have people that come by.
You get the mom and pop that have literally now that cannabis has become so accepted,
they are finally making their way to an event.
You're like, wow, I've never done this before.
Can you tell me a little about your seeds?
Or, oh, I didn't even know they sold these things.
Whether they've heard of them or not, they might come by and they want to have a little
conversation about how seeds have become so popular and how people are growing them to
the novice farmer to the guy that just, yeah, they do want advice.
They want to know everything that's going on with the strains and how I grow and what's
my choice for nutrients, all that stuff.
And then, yeah, you got the people that come by that are fans, the Instagram fans or people
that are just buddies and people you've seen at different shows and they come by to say
hello and shake your hand or just stop by and smoke a joint.
But that gets into the whole thing you asked earlier.
I'm so busy at those booths talking to people and trying to make sure everything's flowing
correctly that I rarely have time to ... I mean, even when you came by last time, I was
trying ... I could see you standing there.
I want to say hi to you, but I'm in the middle of a conversation and how rude to just walk
away from a conversation and then ignore that person.
So I have to do everything I can to make sure everyone feels respected and that they are
being taken care of and then I can step away and say hello to someone or try and talk to
some people.
So at times it can be hard because I've only got a couple of people working my booth with
me and sometimes I would really rather be the one talking.
Yeah, yeah, I get that.
And certainly when I see you at events, I know that your job there is to sell and when
you didn't have time for me immediately, I did a loop and I came back and you had more
time and we said hey then.
But I think it's important for people who are fans but not particularly planning on
buying that day, they have to understand that they need to step aside so that the person
who's got a $100 bill in their hand gets your attention because that's why the whole thing
can continue is because that sale's going to happen.
Yes.
And that's part of the reason why I made these laminated menus now so I can just, when I'm
talking to someone I can see out the corner of my eye that someone wants to talk to me
or someone wants to ask a question so I can just very, very politely hand them my menus
so they can see what's going on and they can hopefully have a question answered that I
can continue to show this other person the respect they deserve and continue their conversation
until they walk away.
But yeah, I agree with you.
If we can just try and shuttle the people that want to talk aside and let the people
they're looking to buy in another aisle, that's what I should be doing.
It's nice to talk to everyone.
You always see fans and friends from every show so it's cool.
So I know that the shows on the West Coast are chill and pretty easy but I'm assuming
that you spend a lot of time in the newer states as well like Michigan for example.
How sketchy is it going into some of these newer states carrying not only all of your
product to sell at the event but also like your personal stash because you're clearly
not going to have a medical card in all these states and the laws are changing.
I would think that with everything on the line, that that could get pretty sketchy sometimes.
I've got a few stories from airports that are pretty comical but yeah, no, for the most
part, they really don't – seeds are really – they don't care.
TSA and most other people have made it very clear that that's not something they're
concerned with.
So me traveling with seeds so far hasn't been an issue.
I would say once you start bringing certain amounts of weed with you on the plane or whatever
you might want to be careful but for the most part, I kind of leave all that shit behind
and let people know, hey, I'm traveling from another state so the reason I don't have
10 jars with a quarter pound in each jar so you can smell everything and make a judgment
on what you want to buy is because A, I don't want to go to jail for this and it's just
not logical.
It's just there's really no way to do it.
So unless I'm driving across state lines and even then, same thing.
I can't be bringing weed across state lines that way either.
So it's really – it's funny, man.
You got to really build your brand and let people know what you got because if they're
counting on smelling a jar to make their choice, it's going to be hard for them.
But yeah, it's so far for me, going to the other states has been incredible.
I mean Michigan, honestly, one of my favorite places to go.
I'm so well-received there and I've got nothing but love for Michigan.
Those guys show me so much support out there, even more so than any other state honestly.
I think more than California, more than Oregon, more than Colorado, Michigan has my back and
is a huge supporter of all things Dungeon Vault.
So big shout out to Michigan farmers.
Right on, right on.
And it's funny too because so many of us on the West Coast between having medical for
almost 20 years depending on where you are on the West Coast, a lot of us have gotten
used to what it's like to be around easily accessible top shelf weed and feeling generally
safe that we're not going to get in trouble.
But I'm actually from Michigan.
When I go home to visit my family and I see friends from back in the day and the fact
that they now have got more advanced medical and they're getting cool products out there,
to see it reflected in their eyes being so recently out of prohibition, it reminds me
to be grateful that I live on the West Coast and that I've even taken some of this stuff
for granted at this point because I'm around it every day.
You go back behind the prohibition curtain and people are all like, man, I can't even
believe I can buy this stuff legally.
Yeah, no, times are changing.
It wasn't long ago that I was arrested for a possession of marijuana charge here in Washington
State and I remember asking the state chief, I said, man, you guys are crazy.
When are you going to just fucking legalize this stuff?
And he said, not anytime soon, buddy.
Well, that wasn't that long ago and here we are.
It's pretty funny.
We were talking about the laws around the seeds and that the TSA really doesn't care
all that much.
People in the olden days, like five years ago, they didn't want to ship seeds into the
US and then people in the US didn't really want to ship seeds from state to state.
But now, lots of people are mailing seeds and a lot of people I ask, why do you feel
safe doing that?
People are like, oh, our seeds are for souvenir only, which doesn't seem like it would be
a hustle that would necessarily stand up in court.
What are the rules around shipping and selling seeds?
Are you really at any risk?
Great question.
It is very, very strange because you've got so many different people with an opinion on
the legalities of it and how it all is playing out.
You don't even know what to think because you've got one person saying it's agricultural
trash, seeds are not looked at as an item that is not illegal.
But then you've got other people that are saying, for instance, at CannaCon this last
a couple of weeks ago, the Cannabis Liquor Control Board came in and they were saying
that seed sales in Washington state is illegal.
To have seeds on my table was essentially the same as having marijuana displayed.
I mean, very, very strict when it comes to the whole recreational side of it because
I think they're really after the whole seed to sale thing and they want to make sure that
they're getting theirs.
But it's very weird because at the same time, they're telling me that it's illegal and this
and that, blah, blah, blah.
But I've personally been told and seen it written on paper that seeds do not have THC
in them and therefore are not illegal and are, like I said, considered trash and or
a souvenir or whatever you like to do with it.
But seed sales, I think, has increased so much because, like you mentioned, before,
five years ago, even more than that maybe, was if you weren't ordering your seed from
Attitude Seed Bank or from, say, Herbie's Head Shop or wherever you were getting them
from, all of our sources were overseas.
And then unless you knew a private breeder here in town, you could get some stuff.
But the varieties and all the hybrids and everything that has come out is over the top.
It's absolutely crazy and I would say that we are very lucky to have so many talented
people in one area that we can actually get what we are getting because now, why would
you ever order seeds from another country at this point?
You're going to have the people get their seeds taken from customs and then who's to
say you're even getting what you're paying for?
That's really any seed bank you order from.
We have guys with great reputations here.
So it's just why risk it anywhere else?
Yeah, totally.
We've got mad, mad talent here in the States now.
Before we go to our second break, I want to ask you about – you have got a really rabid
following.
Your followers are hardcore and sometimes things can get pretty rambunctious on your
Instagram for example, right?
How does that play into your bigger work?
Essentially that is part of your advertising, right?
You're participating with people and yeah, you're teaching them about your product but
also you get these jerks who show up and then suddenly people who are defending you and
so this thing explodes on your Instagram feed.
How do you – what's your perspective on that?
Do you see that as just being healthy and fun or do you try to have there not be much
of it?
When you've got what, 84,000 followers and everybody is passionate, it tends to happen
often.
You know what?
It's – I kind of got into this earlier with you but it's weird because I want to
be the guy who's – I'm not going to turn my cheek and get slapped again but at the
same time, I think there is a point where you need to just kind of step back and either
diffuse the situation or just delete everything entirely and I have done that.
I mean, the example you brought up, there's a few times where I can think of where there
was a post made or there was something said and it led into just some hundred plus comments
thing and yeah, or I've got people that follow me attacking other people and then
people just trolling me hard and in all reality, what good is it?
None.
It does get me some – more people paying attention to the page than other people.
Next thing you know, I got more followers that are looking at things.
Sometimes it's good.
It can be a curse and a blessing but I think for the most part, it's probably better
to just keep your nose out of that shit and just let the troll pages and the meme pages
handle all the huge arguments and you just kind of represent your brand.
That's more of the line I'm trying to take as of recently but at the same time,
I'm a very passionate person.
I'm a very friendly guy but I'm also someone who's got a little bit of anger issues here
and there so I can easily lose my cool and say things I don't mean or maybe I do mean
at the time but just say things that might come across another person as a real jerky
thing to say but in all reality, I'm really just – I'm not going to let people walk
on me.
I can appreciate the people that can – let's all just get along and let's just all smoke
a joint and go hug a tree.
There's nothing wrong with that but at the same time, sometimes people just need to get
put in their place and be told that it don't – it's just your comment was unnecessary
and I don't want to freaking hear it and then you got my – the followers that they
will literally go and I'm not telling them.
I'm not telling people to go do these things and they will literally go and just light
a fire under someone's ass and it's like, oh my gosh.
I had no idea the outcome of what some of these things are going to do but it's just
comical at times.
But yeah, like I said, if I see something – for the most part, I don't leave that
kind of stuff up on my page.
I'll let it go for a little bit.
I'll speak my mind.
I'll say what I need to say and then boom, it's gone.
Yeah, yeah.
I came up with a term for that that I use with clients a lot.
I call it a spectacle marketing, right?
It's something that happens.
A master of this is Jonah Tacoma from Dab Stars, right?
He does these big things that are just like crazy and outrageous and people all want to
watch it because it's like a house on fire or something, right?
He gets everybody excited and he milks it and then he just moves on to the next thing,
right?
Sometimes these online fights can be the same thing.
It could be like, oh my god.
I can't believe like so – and you kind of follow the thread throughout the day and
then as long as nobody gets truly violent with each other, you can always just delete
it down the line and move on.
Exactly.
That's really what I've tried to do because I think that sometimes when I post something,
whether it be drama related or I'm calling someone out for doing something stupid or
whatever it may be, I want people to see what I have to say but then it doesn't need to
just be an ongoing thing.
Once I've spoken my mind or I've said what I want to say and enough people have commented
or seen it, then they can go tell their friends or whatever what they saw.
It's done at that point.
I don't think anyone should just be allowed to be off – let off the hook for stuff they
do or say.
If you've said or done something that's really faulty, then own up to it and if you're
going to get called out on social media, then that's how it is nowadays.
So be ready.
So keep your nose clean and don't say things you don't mean or if you're going to say
things that you do mean, then get ready to back them up.
Yeah, totally.
Go ahead.
It's funny.
It's funny.
No, I was just – yeah, it's funny.
After the break, we're going to talk more about your particular strain lineage.
But one more question before we go to that break.
I have heard you talk about testers a lot, about the kind of attributes that you like
in a tester and the kind of people that deserve to receive test seeds and then all the yahoos
that just waste your seeds and you never hear from them again.
There's clearly a lot of people who are listening today who would love to be a tester
for you or for somebody else, right?
What do you see as being the attributes of a good tester and how should somebody approach
a breeder so that they get – so they start off on the right foot?
I have literally gone about this in so many ways that I don't even know.
At this point, I'm going to start doing face-to-face interviews like I don't – I'm
joking.
But I literally don't know what to do because I've tried it – I've literally done it
this way where I look at someone and I say, okay, this guy has got X amount of followers.
He obviously has people checking out his page.
He grows good weed.
He's very – he's on Instagram a lot.
He's spent a lot of time on there and showing people what he's doing.
So that's the kind of person I would think would be my ideal tester.
I say I think within parentheses because that's really – that's what I thought
would be good.
Then you got guys that have a very, very low following with hardly any followers at all
but they grow killer bud and all they are trying to do is get their foot in the door
so they can hopefully one day be more like a permanent tester or be – have some sort
of way to get into this industry.
If being someone's grower and helping them test strains and all of a sudden I've used
10 of that guy's photos on my page to advertise my brand, guess what?
He's probably made it into a spot where I will always hit him up, maybe even invite
him out for a cup to come hang out and come meet the guys and really get more strains
to grow out himself or whatever.
But I'm looking to build relationships with these people.
I don't want some girl or guy growing for me and me never even knowing who they are,
just having some online persona.
I want to know who you are.
I want to engage with you.
I want to know how they're growing.
I want to know what you got going on and it seems to me that there's too many people
that are – they are so quick to jump in line.
Oh, I want to test you.
I'll do this.
I'll do that.
They promise everything from the moon and back and then they don't do what they say
they're going to do.
Now, there are circumstances that happen and you got to be understanding because everybody
doesn't have an easy life.
There's things that pop up.
Things happen.
There's all sorts of stuff out of our control.
But what I see happening more times than not is people asking and or begging for seeds
and then they don't even do anything with them.
They put them in their stash or maybe they do grow them but they don't ever tell me
about it because they just wanted something new.
They have something that sets them apart from their friend who's growing something
that everyone already has right now.
It's very weird.
And probably super hell of frustrating too.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So hey, let's go ahead and take that break.
We're going to take a short break and be right back.
You're listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is Eric Wimber, founder of Dungeons
Vault Genetics.
Using pesticides when growing cannabis has been common for a long time.
Nowadays though, we know better.
We know that most pesticides formulated for food crops have never been tested for use
with cannabis.
They've been tested to be eaten in tiny doses.
They have not been tested to be inhaled and especially not concentrated into a cannabis
oil.
Chemical residues from pesticides are not healthy for anyone, but they are especially
dangerous for patients.
For commercial cannabis growers, this has become very impactful.
Cannabis enthusiasts and patients have gotten educated enough that they avoid growers who
used pesticides.
Not only that, but states across the country have begun making pesticide testing mandatory
on all licensed cannabis crops.
The time has come to find a better way to fight garden pests than covering your cannabis
in chemicals.
And there is a better way.
Let some good bugs fight your bad bugs.
Beneficial insects and predatory mites have come a long way since we were buying lady
and putting them in the grow room and hoping for the best.
Natural Enemies Bio-Control can help you solve pest issues without using chemicals.
Natural Enemies founder Shane Young learned best practices from working in the ornamental
plant industry and has fine-tuned those strategies specifically for large cannabis crops.
Shane works with commercial cannabis clients across the country to ensure that they keep
their crops safe and pest-free without the use of chemicals.
Natural Enemies has proven solutions for spider mites, aphids, thrips, russet mites, broad
mites, shore flies, white fly, and others too.
You can rely on Natural Enemies for expertise and excellent service.
For more information, go to shapingfire.com forward slash natural enemies or simply click
on their banner in this week's newsletter.
If you grow cannabis with sunshine, you can often feel limited by the seasonal cycle.
You want to grow sustainably and save money, so you use as little electricity as possible.
But if you haven't studied or implemented light deprivation techniques into your greenhouse,
you're leaving a lot of money on the table.
By incorporating light deprivation solutions into your greenhouse, you can often add two
or three additional growing cycles to your year.
When you pencil out the financial benefit of those additional cycles, you'll realize
why commercial-scale light deprivation technology is remaking the cannabis industry.
What used to be done by pulling tarps over hoop houses has been scaled up over the last
few years in such a way that it's become mechanized, easy, and affordable to even small-scale
commercial cannabis operations.
Forever Flowering Greenhouses is the industry leader in light deprivation, greenhouse design
and operation for the commercial cannabis industry.
Their team of greenhouse experts have been in the fields of Northern California for decades
and they're now building greenhouses for commercial cannabis companies across the country.
If you are new to light dep and growing in greenhouses, I encourage you to go back to
Shaping Fire episode 13 with guest Eric Brandstad of Forever Flowering.
I talk with Eric about the importance of intelligent greenhouse management as well as the huge
financial benefit of incorporating light dep techniques.
There are so many aspects of utilizing a greenhouse that can go wrong.
From temperature and airflow to light dep and workflow, Forever Flowering will help
you produce crop after crop of well-cared for flowers.
They can help you retrofit your existing greenhouse with light dep and other modern systems at
a level that fits your budget.
If you're just starting out, Forever Flowering can help you plan and build your new greenhouse
so that you get started on the right foot.
The cannabis business has enough risks without trying to go it alone with your greenhouse.
Contact Forever Flowering Greenhouses to partner with folks who have an indisputable reputation
as knowledgeable and easy to work with.
Go to shapingfire.com forward slash ffg to find out more.
Welcome back.
You're listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose, and our guest this week is Eric Wimber, founder of Dungeons
Vault Genetics.
So, you know, up to this point, we've talked a lot about how someone would start a seed
company and a lot of the goods and the bads that you went through to get to where you
are.
I want to focus this last set specifically on the gear that you put out because it's
fabulous.
I love myself.
I love, you know, actually, I love everything I've grown.
And you know, a lot of that I think has to do with the fact that you really rely a lot
on this fabulous grandpa's breath strain as what seems like your dominant male that you
work with.
How did you find the grandpa's breath and, you know, where did your love affair with
that plant start?
So when I was still working with Granddaddy, I had came to Ken because everything with
that brand was obviously based on the GDP.
Grandpa's granddaddy, grandpa, anything like that.
It was all had to do with the marketing for that company.
So I originally told him, hey, there's this clone going around.
It's very held back.
It's not passed to too many people.
It's very exclusive.
And it was the OG Kush breath.
And we're talking back in like 2009, 2010.
No, excuse me.
It was a little bit after that.
I'm wrong.
But either way, it was early on in the stages of my breeding that this OGKB started getting
passed around.
I have friends in California that looked after me and were very good to me.
And I'm not going to mention his name, but he's a really good dude.
He's very well known in the cannabis industry.
And he gave me clones because he knew that, you know, I was good people.
I wasn't going to do anything bad with them.
And he trusted me with them.
So he gave them to me.
I used them.
I knew what I was doing.
And OGKB to me was, that was the best cookie.
It was such a good smell.
It was very rare.
And it was just one of those ones that if you had it, you had something others didn't.
So I mean, Gage Green, myself, and maybe one or two other people, very few of us had that
clone and we were the first to bring any of these breath strains to the market.
I don't care what anyone says.
I could argue till night about, you know, is Gage Green with their Mindo breath and
the Grateful Breath?
And then I shortly came after, shortly was out with the Grandpa's Breath right after
that.
And I knew from the start of the mail when I first crossed the OGKB with the Tahoe GDP,
I knew immediately once I found this mail, this thing was so just stout.
And it had, I mean, it made the last mails that I found when I was working with Grant,
it looked like nothing.
I mean, it just really, I knew it was going to be good.
And then as I continued forth my project, I saw what was coming out of it and everything
that I saw tested and grown out was incredible.
So it was really just something special.
And that's really why it was used in everything because rather than using too many strains
and having a bunch of stuff that I'm not certain is going to be great, I found something special
and I knew that's what I was going to base everything off of.
And so that's what I did.
The Grandpa's Breath has got something for everybody too because, you know, people have
asked me before, like, I really like the foul mouth, right?
And so people ask me to describe the Grandpa's Breath and I'm all like, well, you know, it's
fuel-y, but it's got some floral in there, but it's got some of those like old school
alcohol esters like skunk does.
And so people are like, so it essentially, you know, tastes like and smells like everything.
I'm like, well, yeah, I guess it kind of does, you know?
It's not one of these strains that you're pigeonholed into one descriptor.
It's not one thing.
It's actually a lot of things.
And one of the cool things about F1s is that you get to experience, you get to treasure
hunt phenos still, and I enjoy that aspect of it.
Yeah, no, I mean, it's, what I will say that I've noticed for sure with this male, no matter
what it's touched, you still get dominance from the female half, but that male brings
so much frost and so much kind of like almost like an earthiness and berries is kind of
what I would describe because everything in there, there's always kind of a grapey, musky
berry thing going on in some of the phenos no matter what you grow, but there's always
going to be the dominant, you know, female phenotype that comes in.
But yeah, like you said, there's a little bit of something for everybody because people
like the purple, you get that.
The bag of peel is there with every strain.
Doesn't matter what you choose.
And then the, some people, they, they're, what's your biggest yielder?
There's quite a few that actually yield quite well.
And surprisingly, because of having the Girl Scout and then the OG and GDP, you don't think
those three strains together are going to create something that yields heavy, but surprisingly
enough it does.
And it's, it's many growers who have tried my strains out have reported back above average
yields even.
So once these, once these strains get dialed in and you know what you're doing with them,
I mean they can really be rewarding in so many levels.
Yeah.
It was probably a lot of fun too for when, you know, once your seed started hitting the
street and people who you did not know personally.
So, so obviously your, your friends and your inner circle were growing your gear.
But when people start to report back beyond your sphere of influence that they're growing
your stuff and really liking it, there's gotta be a lot of self-satisfaction in knowing that
other people are digging on, on your, on your baby, you know?
Oh, absolutely.
My, my first years in with Ken and all that stuff, I was seeing people bringing me samples
to the shows and the, Hey, this is your purple champagne.
Hey, this is the, this is the grand OG.
This is this, this is that.
And I was super stoked.
I was, I was, I was happy with what I was seeing.
I felt pretty cool.
You know, a little pat on my own back, you know, like I made that.
That's, that's, that's really cool.
You know, it was my, it was a dream and now it's come true.
But what I've noticed now with this grandpa's breath line, it doesn't matter what you bring
by.
I am so impressed with every single sample that gets brought to my table and I'm always
so happy and so excited to see the next one that someone has because it's always been,
it's very rewarding feeling, but not only that, it's, it's just cool because this is
what I've always wanted to do.
I've wanted to make strains that I would be happy to smoke and stuff that, I mean, to
be sitting there smoking on a strain that I created and knowing that I'm not, you know,
I'm not just smoking it cause I create, I'm smoking it cause I enjoy it.
And that's something I would actually recommend to other people to try and not just, not just
to create a sale, but because, Hey, this is good weed.
It's pretty good feeling.
I got to admit.
Yeah.
I love it.
And every time I hear from someone that they enjoy my strains, it's just another, you know,
huge blessing because I know I'm doing something right.
One of the far out things I think for being a breeder versus a big commercial production
grower is that you're winning cups, cannabis cups, but like you're not winning them.
It's the people who have bought your gear who are then winning the cups.
And so, you know, your work is winning the cup put together with their work.
That must be a strange feeling.
What was it like the first time that one of your strains won a cup that someone else grew?
That was insane because it wasn't just one cup.
This guy, he goes by the name Big Worm online.
He literally, he makes incredible oil, but he was over in Massachusetts is where he's
based out of, but he placed at the secret cup for the East Coast or for, I don't remember
where it was at, but he placed at the secret cup, made it to the finals.
And then with my citrus farmer strain, he literally swept the competition.
I mean, he won in one night, best overall, highest terps and best shatter.
I mean, in one night and that was all first place awards for citrus farmer.
And then I got to smoke the oil shortly thereafter.
I mean, absolutely burnt orange, just absolute dank.
It was so good.
Talk about feeling really cool and having a moment.
That was it for me.
I was like, that's awesome to know that people are that impressed with the strain and it's
coming out that good and people are really positive reviews.
It makes you feel really good.
You know, and in the end, it is also a business.
So I'm assuming that once people started winning cups with your gear, that that really
helped at the box office too, right?
Because suddenly people are all like, wow, I hadn't heard of that strain.
They look it up and suddenly they're on your IgE and now they're trying to totally connect
with you at a, at an event or something to buy the seeds.
That probably makes all the difference in the world when, when your stuff starts winning
awards.
Oh yeah.
Tangy, tangy with crock and DNA.
Those guys blew up with that strain.
I can't say for certain that that's the first orange strain I've ever had.
Orange strains have been around for years and years, but they kind of, they kind of
really set the standard for orange strains, right?
So when I was given my skunk tangerine cut from Oregon kid, that one is one that is so,
it's so held back.
Not very few people have that clone.
So the amount of breeders working with it is two.
Me and archive seeds is the only people that I have it as far as I'm concerned.
I haven't seen anyone else using it.
No one else is working with it.
And it had such a strong smell.
It was incredible.
And I knew right then and there that that was going to be something that as soon as
people saw it and smelt it and got to see what they're going to get from my seeds,
they were going to, it was going to be popular.
We released a citrus farmer at the Emerald cup in 2015 I believe.
And it sold out that weekend.
So then it was not even, let's see, that was December, 2015.
So I think, yeah, later on in the year, 2016 was when, when citrus farmer really blew up.
It won four awards.
So it won those three at secret cup for the shatter.
And then the week after that, it won at a, another event over in Maine or on the East
coast for the flower at one third place overall.
So it really started making waves.
And even to this day, everyone that grows it has, has left back, left me such positive
feedback and has really enjoyed it.
It's been very well reviewed.
I know that like trying to choose your, your favorite strain is like trying to, you know,
choose a favorite child or something, but is there, is there a particular strain in,
in your line that you feel especially warm to like that?
Like, you know, maybe it's, maybe it's the first cop or maybe it's something that, that,
you know, was especially difficult for you to run.
That man, it's such, it's like you said, it's like trying to choose your favorite child.
How do you say that?
You make sure they're not looking when you say it.
But I mean, really it's, it's since they can't hear me, I would say that if I had to choose
overall, if I'm left on an Island with one strain to smoke, fuck, that's so hard.
But I would say hot rod.
Oh, right on.
Yeah.
I mean my, that or the, the ones that are sold out, my swamp thing or lost soul, anything
OG, Kim, sour flavor, anything that's you crack that jar and you can smell it across
the room.
That's, that's what I'm after.
So we have found so much gas out of the hot rod that that really was that, that to me
is probably my go to favorite, but the grandpa's breath, man, very, very like right there.
I've been smoking on grandma's breath the past two days and I love that strain.
It works out so well for me for sleep and for everything.
It's just a very heavy narcotic high and I really enjoy it.
So but hot rod just because of the taste, the turps, the smell overall, everything about
it, it's just, it's really what I'm after when I, when it comes to what I choose for
my cannabis strain on a daily, I really like the fuel.
It seems like you have, I mean, everybody does, you know, limited runs, right?
But it seems like you have really gone pro with, with how you're doing the limited runs.
And for anybody who did not, who wasn't at Emerald Cup this year, this is pretty much
how it went down.
You know, you had, you had these, these trials.
I mean, I guess I'm trying to tell them your story for you, but you can, you had these
trials that you weren't sure if you were going to go all the way with.
And so, and so like what?
48 hours before Emerald Cup opens up, you drop photos of these crosses on, on Instagram,
which like freaks all your fans out.
Everybody's like, oh my God.
And so like as, as the morning, first morning of Emerald Cup and people are like sipping
on their coffee and like stretching and stuff, you've already got a line from the front of
your booth, you know, 45 people, you know, deep and everybody else is like, what the
fuck's going on over there?
Right.
And so I follow you on IG.
I'm like, ah, well, you know, everybody wants to get the limited edition stuff.
Were you surprised at how successful the marketing was for those limited editions?
You have no idea.
Like me and my buddy that I drove down there with, we sat there over dinner and we're having
a drink one the night before Emerald Cup.
Or maybe it was, maybe it was that Thursday night.
So we were going to set up the next morning.
One way or another, we're sitting there thinking, we're like, you know, how should we do this?
You know what I mean?
Do I want to, you know what I mean?
Do I want to just tell people, you know, what I ended up doing was I told people the, how
limited they were, how the fact that there's only so many packs available and I, and I,
what I did was I actually opened it up to, to some people before the show.
So I made it even more exclusive by offering people, if you can pay now and you want to
pre-buy it, go right ahead.
You know, send me the money.
It'll be waiting for you.
And then, so I did that and I, I literally had so many messages and so many people automatically
wanted to pay that I, I just was like, wow, I had no idea it was going to blow up like
this.
So as that morning came, that Saturday morning, like you mentioned, there were so many people
already waiting there.
I wasn't even set up yet and people were standing there with cash.
I'm like, can I buy this?
Can I buy that?
I'm like, I'm not even, hold on one sec.
Let me get, let me get this stuff out.
I'm not even, I'm just setting up, but it was absolutely incredible.
We took video because I've never been that busy ever at any show where I had that many
people waiting in line, like I'm dropping the next iPhone or something.
So, so those seeds that were all your limited editions are, do you think that you're going
to move forward with all of those or were those just, you know, fun things that you
figured on the side and you know, you just, you just wanted to get them out, but you're
not going to move down the road with them.
A lot of people, it's funny.
I mentioned Archive earlier.
He made a joke one time where he made a meme about it.
It was like the breeders list to, you know, like what, what the, what the really like,
so some people will say limited edition means totally untested, you know, high priced, you
know, BS, just some, some breeder wants to put something out real quick.
That wasn't the case here.
What happened was I had a run where I fully intended on there being a hell of a lot more
seeds in there were that, that the, the, the male just didn't put out as much pollen as
I was hoping it would have.
And overall, I think what, what really happened was I, I miscalculated my run days.
I'm telling on myself right here, but that's just keep it real with everybody.
Um, I, I pulled, I think a week early and so some of the seeds weren't even as fully
developed as they should have been.
So I was like, Oh shit.
So when it's all said and done and I counted stuff, there was some where it was like, I
want this strain release cause this is too good not to release it.
And after testing it, we knew that we had some killer stuff, but there was not as much
numbers as I normally would have.
So I was like, you know what, I'm going to put them up there.
People that want them, it's going to be a limited edition.
Get them while they're hot.
You know, it's, it's, it's up to you if you want them great, if not, no big deal.
And sure enough, I mean, I, they were very well accepted and everybody was super stoked
to get in line and get some of them.
So I would say that, uh, I would like all of them to be something in my line that
comes back.
But at this point, what I'm starting to realize is, and I don't think a lot of
people realize this either, is I'm working very, uh, exclusively, you know, on certain
things.
It's very, it's, it's, I'm doing things, um, alone.
I don't have a, I don't have a huge team I'm working with.
I'm not, I don't have a gigantic facility I'm breeding out of, so I don't have
unlimited numbers when it comes to these things.
I don't have, I don't have a hundred different rooms to make all these different
strains.
So what it comes down to is I do more or less, um, kind of boutique runs and boutique
drops.
And, and now that's how it's going to be like, if you, if you're in, if you're in
that line, you get ahold of them, then great.
Cause that, I really mean it.
They're limited as in, I might, it might be another year or two before I remake
them.
So it's one of those things like I've got so many great ones that I've now released
and have become popular off of.
But now, you know what I mean?
People are asking for certain ones to come back and I've got so many other ones I
need to do and then trying to stay relevant and make new strains.
It's, it's overwhelming at times.
And that's another thing you asked her about people wanting to get into this
industry and how easy is it?
It's hard, man.
You're dead.
You're dedicating your life to making seeds and then you've got to test those
seeds and you've got to grow those seeds.
And you're talking about six months down the line before you can even do anything
with them.
Well, in those six months, I've got zero gardens I'm cropping out either.
So I'm not growing anything for smoking.
It's literally just making seeds and there's, it's so it's, it's how it's, it's
very difficult at times to do everything and have it all, you know, make sure you've
got everything that people want and, and, you know, taking care of everything you
need to do.
It's, it's, it's tough.
It probably frees you up to a certain degree too, that you're not having to bring
in product, you know, heavy commercial production level of flowers too, right?
Because, you know, growing flowers full time is, is a, is an arduous thing.
And, you know, you, you specialize on doing seeds, you know, like a ninja.
And I, and I find that across our industry, people who are specializing, I mean, you
know, we all need to know something about everything, right?
Cause all these parts fit in together, right?
But, but I think that the people who are allowed to really study their particular
discipline and they do it better than anybody, they reap the rewards because most
everybody else is just kind of like a dilettante.
Yeah, no, I totally agree.
And one thing I'll say, not, not to, I'm not trying to toot my own horn here or
anything, but I have focused on trying to make strains that I knew were going to be
great.
I originally released, I believe 12, 12 strains or so were in my line from the
time I told you I left granddaddy on, um, at that first Emerald cup, 2014.
No, excuse me, 2015 was when I first had all my line fully released for everybody.
Um, there, there was at one point I told people, I said, I'm not making any more
seeds.
I'm going to, I'm going to let this line ride for a while till I see everybody has
grown them.
I don't want to be a guy that's got, you know, when someone comes up to me, what
strain do you recommend?
Well, I've got 50, you know, here, let me, let me try and pick one out for you.
No, let's have you grown any of my stuff.
Well, I've got 12 to choose from.
Let's have you do this one.
Then come back in two months and let's try another one.
Like I really encourage people to let me help you find something from my line that I
think you'd like.
And also just, just give it a try.
If you, if you trust in my brand and you like what you just, you tried before, then
you will love all the other ones as well.
So it's one of those things I really want to be more of a, more of an exclusive
breeder to where I don't have 150 strains in the few years I've been out.
I've, I've got the, my original line and I've just now broken off into making a few
more and I've got more that are in testing now, but I've, I'm not quick to jump to
market with, you know, more than I can chew.
I want to be able to say that I've grown and I've seen things grown and can give you
some solid feedback on everything.
Yeah. Right on, right on.
Well, Eric, I know that your time is valuable.
And so I want to thank you for coming on the show.
And you know, I want to double thank you too, because I'm not, just anybody would come
on a show and talk about, you know, how to build a business because, you know, in a
certain way you're, you're giving out some of your special sauce secrets for how you
built Dungeons Vault.
And you know that there's people out there that you're inspiring during this show who
are now going to make seeds and are therefore, you know, seeing themselves as
competitors.
But, but you are so comfortable in, you know, who you are and your business that you
were open to, you know, to talk shop with me other than just, you know, your own
strains.
So I appreciate you both taking your time and, and, and talking about how you did it so
that the next generation can come up behind you.
Hey, you know what?
Thank you very much for having me.
I really enjoyed myself and to anybody out there looking to get in the industry and or do
their own seed breeding, I encourage it.
Just know that it's, it's like I said, it's a cutthroat business, but that doesn't mean,
you know, don't try.
I say do what you love and I love what I do and I wouldn't have it any other way.
So if anyone tells you not to do it, just don't talk to them anymore because they're
obviously not looking out for you.
So do your thing and enjoy life and just do, let's all have fun here.
So.
Awesome.
If you want to find out more about Dungeons Vault Genetics, you should definitely check
out Eric's Instagram page at dungeons underscore vault underscore genetics.
You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the show at
shapingfire.com and on Apple iTunes, Stitcher and Google Play.
If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it if you'd leave a positive review of the
podcast, wherever you download.
Your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too.
On the Shaping Fire website, you can also subscribe to the weekly newsletter for
insights into the latest cannabis news and product reviews.
On the Shaping Fire website, you will also find transcripts of today's podcast as well.
For information on me and where I'll be speaking, you can check out shangolose.com.
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire.
I've been your host, Shango Lose.
