Fungus of all kinds are really becoming popular with a wider range of people.
Psilocybin is slowly starting to be legalized for research and therapy, while psilocybin
microdosing has exploded in every corner of the country.
We are hearing reports of fungus that eats microplastics, how turkey tail helps cure
cancer and how lion's mane mushroom are pretty much your brain's best friend.
Of course, culinary mushrooms have been enjoyed by humans forever, but we are seeing a huge
resurgence in home and small farm growing of culinary mushrooms, meaning that rare,
non-commercial varieties are popping up at farmers markets and in the neighborhood trades.
Last year I discovered that I totally loved wine cap mushrooms, but I had never come across
that craft mushroom until gifted it by a home cultivator.
Now I'm constantly searching for them.
And finally, the fungus in the soil is essential for all the food we eat and the flowers we
love, especially cannabis.
So many mushroom varieties touching our lives and being helpful in so many ways.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, cultivation and technique efficiently and
with good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
We'll send you new podcast episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox along
with commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week and videos too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published.
Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode.
Also we're giving away very cool prizes to folks who sign up to receive the newsletter.
There's nothing else you need to do to win except receive that newsletter.
This month's sponsor is Multiverse Beans at multiversebeans.com.
Ten winners will randomly receive a free three-pack of Femini seeds from either Gnome Automatics
or Humboldt Seed Company.
So go to shapingfire.com to sign up for the newsletter this week and be entered into this
month's and all future newsletter prize drawings.
And be sure to check out the multiverse beans Instagram.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I'm your host, Shango Lose.
My guest today is Stephanie Garcia.
Mycologist Stephanie Garcia has a degree in Botany and Plant Pathology and completed her
master's program at the University of Hawaii in Tropical Conservation Biology, focusing
on below-ground fungal diversity over varying environmental gradients on Hawaii Island.
After completing her master's, she proceeded to tour Southeast Asia, studying local plants
and mushrooms and landed back in Oregon, spending time between cannabis harvests and the Bureau
of Land Management.
She now studies both endo- and ectomycorrhizal fungi and their associations and benefits
to various plant hosts as Quality Compliance Manager at Mycorrhizal Applications.
Stephanie and her husband Emery are expecting their first child in just a couple weeks,
so we are especially glad that she chose to fit us in before that major milestone.
And if you listen closely, you will hear their dogs Norm and Betty in the background.
On today's episode of Shaping Fire, we will make sure we are all on the same page regarding
the differences between mycelium, mycorrhiza, endomycorrhiza, and ectomycorrhiza, followed
by a deeper discussion about mycelium specifically.
During the second set, we will focus on endomycorrhiza, its functions, and how you can damage its
functioning by inhibiting the symbiosis taking place in the soil.
And we finish the episode with a wide-ranging discussion of best practices for creating
a thriving environment for mycelium and mycorrhiza, including inoculants, proper watering, pH,
proper nutrition, and the use of ground covers.
Welcome to Shaping Fire, Stephanie.
Thanks for having me, Shango.
So let's start off with two bits of vocabulary that are misused all the time in soil discussion.
Mycorrhiza and mycelium will be used, you know, obviously the entire episode today,
but it isn't uncommon for folks to use the two words mycorrhiza and mycelium interchangeably,
and they're not the same thing.
So will you start by teasing those apart for us?
Certainly, yeah.
That's a good question.
I like that you point out that some people can get certain things confused like that.
So when we talk about mycelium, we're actually talking about the vegetative structure of
a fungi.
So you could think of it as being analogous to plant roots.
So you could think of it as fungal roots.
So that's what mycelium is.
So if you have a mushroom, if you go mushroom hunting and you find a fruiting body, like
say you go for morels right now, because it's the perfect time of year to be looking for
morels, there's going to be an entire network of their root system underground.
Now when we're talking about mycorrhizae, that's actually describing a symbiotic relationship.
It's a mutualism, and it's occurring between the plant roots and those fungal roots.
So mycorrhizae is more of an activity than a physical thing that has a name that's a
noun.
It's more active than that.
It describes this relationship.
It isn't necessarily like, oh, there's a mycorrhizae right there.
It's more like, ah, that is a host and a fungal network exhibiting mycorrhizae activity.
Yeah, yeah, that would be correct.
So I mentioned the morel earlier.
That is a mycorrhizal fungi, but you wouldn't call their root system a mycorrhizae.
So you could say a morel is a mycorrhizal fungi, but when you want to describe how the
morel's mycelium is interacting with its plant host, that would be the mycorrhizal
symbiosis.
So yeah, mycorrhizae is really describing the symbiosis.
It's used incorrectly all the time.
Earlier in my soil knowledge, I definitely was doing that myself.
And while we're at it, because even though during the first set we're going to discuss
mycelium networks and then we're going to focus more on mycorrhizae in set two, I am
pretty sure that you're going to be talking about mycorrhizae as part of your answers
during set one.
So we should probably also get the other key vocabulary that we want to tease apart too,
which is the difference between endomycorrhizae and ectomycorrhizae.
Yeah, so endomycorrhizae, when you think of endo, you think of inside, or that's the
Latin meaning for endo is inside.
So really what it's describing is what's happening more on the cellular level inside of the root.
But if we go even more broadly, endomycorrhizal fungi form symbiotic relationship with about
80 to 85 percent of plant species.
So most of our agricultural crops, a lot of our ornamental crops, grasses.
So I call them more of our bread and butter of mycorrhizal fungi because they associate
with such a wide range of host plants.
Now, let's go back down into the root.
On the cellular level, hyphae will penetrate into the root and it goes between cells, but
it also goes inside the cells.
And then inside the cell is really where the nutrient exchange is occurring.
And the endomycorrhizae, they make a specialized structure called arbuscules.
So that's a site of nutrient exchange.
Most endomycorrhizal fungi also form vesicles.
That's a storage structure.
These fungi are really good at helping plants overcome drought type conditions.
Vesicles, they believe, for one reason why they can do that.
So anyway, the endomycorrhizal fungi, you'll also see them or hear them being referred
to as AMF and that just stands for arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi.
You can also hear or see them being referred to as VAM.
That's vesicular arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi.
So they don't refer to them anymore as the VAM because some species don't produce those
vesicles. So, yeah, we're getting really detailed there on the endomycorrhizal fungi.
But it is important to understand that these hyphae of these types of fungi, they go
inside the cell and then the nutrient exchange is happening within the cytosolic fluid.
Now, ectomycorrhizal fungi, on the other hand, they don't associate with as broad of a
host range.
So they're associating with maybe 5 to 10 percent of plant species, primarily conifers,
some hardwoods.
And then there are some agriculturally important plants that form the ectomycorrhizal
symbiosis.
So then if we go down to that cellular level again and we compare it to the endomycorrhizal
fungi, the ectomycorrhizal fungi also make specialized structures.
They do also penetrate into the root, but they also make a mantle.
So mycelium will cover the outside of the root, kind of like a sock, right?
Say your foot is like the root.
So the mycelium covers the root on the outside and then it also penetrates inside the
root. But instead of carrying out the nutrient exchange in an individual plant cell, the
mycelium travels around the cells and they call that a hardignet.
And so this is another more specialized structure that they make.
They don't produce any type of arbuscules or vesicles.
So, yeah, they're just they're doing all their nutrient exchange in between cells.
And since we're talking primarily about cannabis cultivation and the ecto is really
only interacting with, I think you said like 10 or 15 percent of plants, we're probably
going to be talking when we talk about mycorrhizae today, we're going to be generally
assuming we're talking about endomycorrhizae unless you point out otherwise, right?
Yeah, that's correct.
Cannabis doesn't associate with ectomycorrhizal fungi.
So right on.
Well, that makes it easier today.
So so OK, so that's why I wanted to start out there with the definitions of mycelium
mycorrhizae and then and then endomycorrhizae just for everybody's benefit.
So with that said, we will we will jump back and talk much more in detail about mycorrhizae
during set two. But but here, let's smooth on in right now to talking about mycelium
networks to get a really good understanding on what those are.
So so mycelium are the fleshy, vegetative white strands that form massive networks in
the soil. We now know what does it consist of?
Like what what actually do the white strands, what are they made of other than just
generally fungus and how are they made?
Interesting. Well, fungal cell walls are made of chitin, so that's really what they're
composed of and they're made through meiosis.
I mean, you know, they're growing just in the same way fresh fresh growth would occur
from a plant. Right.
So they're really exploratory.
Like you said, most of them are more whitish, tannish in color.
Mycelium can consist of just one long tubular like structure.
They can also have septa, which divides.
Divides this long tubular structure.
And for folks who aren't familiar with meiosis, would you just explain that real quick?
Sure. So I mean, that's a it's reproduction.
Right. So we're basically having cell division occur and then the DNA is being passed.
There's a there's I mean, it's a pretty technical process and it also depends on the
species. Right.
But even even what you already said just kind of makes it clear what I was trying to
getting at is like, what is the what is the mycelium making machine?
And the answer is itself is right by by cellular splitting, just making itself more of
itself. Right.
Right. Right on.
So for those of us who are transplanting our plants or maybe we're out in the field
collecting indigenous microorganisms or or whatever we're doing, we'll come across
mycelium strands that are like a whole range of colors from like the bright white, which
I always think of as, oh, those look really healthy.
And whereas some are, you know, more of a whitish gray or some are like a whiterish
beige. Are these different strains of mycelium that are these different colors or does
or does, you know, a healthy, thriving mycelium, is it always white and and these
colorations are signs of some kind of imbalance?
That's a really great question.
Yeah, it is really species dependent.
You know, morels, for example, they they don't have this bright white necessarily
mycelium, especially when you have them in culture.
So I would say, you know, that, yeah, there may be some type of environmental
condition that might make them this more dull yellow.
You know, maybe they're not the most healthy, but also we have a lot of different
colors of mycelium depending on the species.
That's good to know, too, because I know, you know, as I said, my question, I thought
that I needed it all to be bright and I should not judge my mycelium networks harshly
just because they don't look bright.
And because that could that could cause me to incorrectly diagnose this situation.
So if there are different strains of mycelium, how do mycelium networks of different
species interact?
Do they do they, you know, explore and then butt up to each other and then and then
connect, even though they're different species?
Or are these are these mycelium networks of different strains kind of like a
kind of wrapped around each other, but not necessarily connected?
That's another really great question, Django.
I'm glad you're full of them.
So I would say that's really species dependent.
We know in some mycorrhizal fungi there is competition.
So, you know, I know of one researcher that works on Rhizopogon that is an
ectomycorrhizal fungi, but they'll be more competitive for their resources.
So they don't necessarily they may you know, they may just exist wrapped around each
other, but really they're they're competing for resources.
So so so in that case, I think that most of us think about the mycelium networks as
being these these nutrition transport networks and they're connecting everybody.
And, you know, in my mind, I go so far as to think, oh, they're trying to help
everybody get along.
But actually there is competition between mycelial relationships.
So they are they are bonding with networks that they see as allies and then and then
turning a cold shoulder and not connecting to networks that they see as competitive.
Yeah, you could think of it that way, but one thing I do want to just clarify is that
there are there are other there's another group of fungi that we're kind of forgetting
about a little bit. We're forgetting about our saprophytic fungi.
So they're not necessarily creating a network between plants, you know, amongst
each other.
Their mycelium is really there to decay dead organic matter.
And they're the recyclers, right?
I mean, they're recycling the duff.
And so those those are a little different in that they're creating their own little
network just so that they can eat more, right, so they can decay more and then
eventually maybe they can fruit.
You know, I think you're I think you're right.
That was good that you picked that up.
I definitely think that I was putting the responsibilities for mycelium and
saprophytic fungus into the same basket.
Yeah, that's good for me to tease those apart, too.
So so so the the mycelium networks, while I was picturing them being large, like like
in covering a wide space and therefore had this idea that they were also going from
plant to plant.
I don't know exactly how I was picturing that, but but really, perhaps mycelium
networks are a little bit more localized based on, I don't know, the project or the
responsibility of that particular mycelium network.
Yeah, I like that you can think of it almost like their little project, because even
thinking outside of the saprophytic fungi that are decaying this dead organic matter,
we also have parasitic fungi.
Right. So we know that those could spread from, you know, those could certainly make a
network and go from tree to tree, but they could also be more localized just
dependent on is their host available?
What can they infect?
Right. Where do they infect?
Because we have other fungi that are primarily existing on leaves that are causing
damage there. Right.
So but yeah, I think when we think about mycelium and one reason why I love
mycorrhizal fungi so much is that we really think of them more as the protagonist.
And we want to think of mycelium as being this just incredible thing in this network
that spreads, you know, between the trees.
And like you say, try to help everybody get along and distribute out nutrients really
well. So I think when we think of mycelial networks, we really do.
We really do think about the more beneficial kind and that would be more, you know, like
the mycorrhizal fungi.
And if I tend to drift into giving credit to mycelium that's for saprophytic fungus, be
sure to call me out on it again because I don't want to be spreading the bro science.
We're here to get it right.
I mean, but those are great, too, because, you know, I mean, we would have just meters and
duff in our forests and there's also some very tasty saprophytic fungi.
So we don't want to forget about those.
For sure. All right.
So let's talk about some of these tasks that we rely on mycelium to do.
So why don't you just instead of me, like just kind of like trying to pull a list out of
the air, you're the expert.
So so let me just kind of hand you the mic and tell us a little bit about the varied
tasks that mycelium is doing in the soil, you know, as part of its role.
Sure. Yeah.
And I do just want to say, you know, I still don't consider myself an expert.
I just consider myself, you know, constantly trying to educate myself in the in this
pursuit of knowledge, specifically with fungi.
So I appreciate you saying that.
But, you know, you can be humble.
But like we all we all heard your your credentials at the beginning of the show.
And and you're here because like, you know, you're kind of the expert.
So so I appreciate your humility on it.
But I have a feeling you have all the information that we're looking for.
Well, I'll strive.
I'll strive to meet those expectations.
OK, so you want to know about the roles of mycelium within the soil, please.
OK, so I think I think mycelium, you know, its main objective and it may be more of a
selfish objective on its part is to gain enough resources to reproduce.
Right. That's going to be the main goal.
It's like I'm going to explore the soil.
I'm going to try to gain resources enough to take care of myself.
So I think that's one objective is that mycelium is getting what it needs to to go through its own life cycle.
And I think another thing is just very exploratory.
I think there's like, let's say, these side benefits of mycelium and what it's doing within our soil.
So for those mycelium to be exploring the soil, they're really contributing to soil structure, to water
infiltration, which also helps preventing runoff and providing climate resistance.
So I think there's there's a big role for them there.
If I can go back to my mycorrhizal fungi for a moment, our muscular mycorrhizal fungi, they release a glycoprotein.
It's called glomulin.
And that is just this incredible protein that helps to aggregate soil.
And that's really fascinating, not only for this, you know, helping to keep soil structure and the water infiltration,
but it also can hold on to carbon when your soil has more structure to it.
And then those nutrients are more available.
So I think that there's a really big role for mycelium to play in some of this nutrient cycling.
Excuse me. We also we also know that some mycelium will actually excrete secrete enzymes, and that can help make a lot of
different nutrients more biologically available, ones that wouldn't be otherwise.
And then it's it allows, you know, this soluble nutrients to actually be absorbed and then transported to the plant.
So there's I think that these are some of some of the main ones just right away that I'm that I can think of.
Let's talk about the transportation of nutrition.
So I'm realizing now that some of what I imagined mycelium networks doing, which would be like moving nutrition between different plants,
that's probably a larger role than mycelium is doing.
And that might be more of a saprophytic fungus role.
Is the mycelium going to be mostly moving nutrition from the surrounding soil environment and just bringing it back to the root zone as
essentially to the mycorrhiza, which is going to interact with the with the plant?
So it's kind of like it is it is out searching for nutrition for its own life benefit.
But then by doing that, it is also bringing that nutrition back to the mycorrhiza, which is which will will discuss more in detail later is then is an interacting with the plant.
Is my range of where it's doing that nutrition work, do I have that right where it's a bit closer to the root zone?
Yeah.
So I think that the saprophytic fungi and the mycorrhizal fungi, they're really working together.
So the saprophytic fungi that those fungi may be able to break down, you know, specifically more carbon than the mycorrhizal fungi.
And as we know, mycorrhizal fungi, they they're really associating with plants because they can't they're not able to access the carbon on their own.
That's that's the exchange.
I'll save this for the next session, really.
But so let's say the saprophytic fungi, their primary role is going to be decaying this dead organic matter, you know, making carbon available for the plant.
But then the fungi or the mycorrhizal fungi, they're they're more exploratory and they're actually able to deliver the nutrients to the plant through their symbiosis.
Right. So the saprophytic fungi, they may make some of these nutrients biologically available, but they don't really have that delivery mechanism unless they're very close to the plant root zone.
So the mycorrhizal fungi and their mycelial network is really incredible because they can increase the root absorption zone.
Like our plants can only reach so far.
Mycelium is so much smaller in size than a plant root.
Right. And then they can travel for so much longer than our plant roots can.
So they can really become exploratory in the soil.
Now, they can penetrate areas that our plants cannot and then they're able to access nutrients that the plant isn't.
And then their mycelium is like a little highway of nutrients going to the plant.
I do also want to mention, which I just think is interesting, that mycorrhizal fungi, you know, there's evidence to suggest that they've evolved from saprophytic fungi.
So some mycorrhizal fungi still do hold the genes that can do these other types of breakdown of nutrients.
So I just think that's really interesting because some mycorrhizal fungi we say are obligate.
They have to have a plant host because they can't access their own carbon.
But then we know some mycorrhizal fungi are not obligate and they still maintain some of these genes so that they can exist without the plant host.
So, you know, we're big supporters of the soil food web explanation for looking at soil here.
What role does mycelium play in the soil assisting micro communities and other life in the soil?
Because I'm guessing that it isn't just a relationship between, you know, breaking down nutrients and then getting nutrients back.
I'm guessing that all the inhabitants of the rhizosphere have got varying relationships with mycelium that are beneficial.
Yeah, certainly.
Well, we did talk, you know, briefly about soil structure and water infiltration, right?
And this hyphae, you know, going through the soil and allowing that infiltration of water and then just helping the soil actually hold the water.
Right. And then we did speak a little bit about how when you have this really high concentration of water,
let's say soil structure, it can hold on to carbon more readily.
And so we know that our soil organic carbon is food for microbes.
Right. So if you have an increased amount of soil carbon, you typically see an increase in the amount of carbon that you're eating.
And so we know that when you have a high concentration of carbon, you're going to have a higher chance of getting a better harvest.
Right. So if you have an increased amount of soil carbon, you typically see an increase in the microbial activity.
So I think mycelium plays, it's like cyclical, right?
So they grow and they explore and then carbon's held on to.
And then these microbes are like, oh, this is awesome.
You know, I'm going to, we're going to, there's going to be more microbes because we have more food.
And then they thrive and then the soil just becomes just more and more healthy.
Right. Everybody gets fed when mycelium is doing its job.
Right.
So I know that some people talk about how mycelium can help remediate the soil that's been contaminated by a whole range of things.
But specifically, I'm curious about pathogenic funguses that cause like, you know, fusarium root rot and things like that.
Can our ally mycelium clean up pathogens like that in the soil?
Yeah, that's such a great question.
You know, I told you I really like the protagonist fungi.
So my plant mythology is up to speed.
But it just made me think of, you know, there's there are products out there that are there.
Well, those are more bacterial that are kind of fighting the fungi.
I'm trying to think of these this actinobate, you know, that's a product that but it's bacterial and that's fighting off the fungi.
I don't know. I think that's such a good question.
But I do remember this one little project I did when I was living in Hawaii with a friend and he was really into IMO4s.
And, you know, his knowledge is so much greater than mine.
So I'm not going to try to explain anything like that.
But we were traveling around to these coffee plantations that had this pathogenic fungi that occurred on the coffee leaf.
And we made a solution of the IMO4.
And it's hard to say exactly which component maybe was fighting.
But we we just sprayed this on the coffee trees that had this fungal infection and came back and scored it.
And the ones that we scored, there was a significant impact and reduction of that fungal infection.
Now, we know IMO4s don't just contain fungi, right?
So, you know, it was a fun little project, but still kind of hard to say.
And I'm not really sure of the research on that.
Yeah, that's fair enough.
And I think that your answer points to two things.
Number one, for folks who are interested in, well, cannabis, but fungal networks in general,
and are just kind of coming up, you know, and through university,
there is a lot of research around cannabis and soil science and fungus to be had.
You know, this is a great time to have an interest in cannabis and becoming out of school.
And then the second thing that your answer points out is,
you know, we're always talking about the power of industrial, indigenous microorganisms here.
And IMO4, you know, while it has got a significant representation of fungus in it,
it's this magical combination of nature that just rebalances things, like in your example.
And, you know, so many of us container-based cannabis growers, we struggle with fusarium.
So, anytime I talk to somebody who focuses their work on the root zone,
I kind of ask everybody, hey, do you have a good solution for fusarium?
And, you know, everybody kind of says the same thing, like,
you know, the research hasn't actually found a really good one yet,
and generally you should just replace your soil.
But this is the first time that IMO4 has been brought up.
And that makes a lot of sense.
It would be interesting if somebody were to have, you know, say,
like an installed, you know, large-scale bed,
where it would be a real pain in the butt to replace the soil,
unlike, you know, like a 20-gallon pot or something, which is really easy.
You know, doing a significant application of IMO4 might be one fusarium solution.
Alright, well, I don't want to get too distracted off on the fusarium thing,
but while we're there, you know, I figured we might as well hit it.
So, alright, great.
So, now that we are understanding what the mycelium networks are doing,
and that they are breaking down nutrition and bringing it back to the rhizosphere,
where, I guess I'll say for the moment, it gets handed off to Mycorrhiza,
that does the exchange with the plant,
that we will pick up on set two.
So, let's go ahead and take our first short break,
and then when we come back, we will start talking about Mycorrhiza.
You are listening to Shaping Fire,
and my guest today is mycologist Stephanie Garcia.
And, you know, without these advertisers, Shaping Fire would not happen.
So, please support them and let them know you heard of them on Shaping Fire.
One of the reasons why no-till cannabis growing is so valued by farmers
is because the mycelium networks in the soil remain established from year to year.
And we know these fungal networks are essential
because they are the nutrient superhighways
that extend far and wide in the substrate to feed your plants.
The trouble with growing in new living soils or blended cocoa substrates
is that it takes most of the plant's life just to create these mycelium highways.
Dinomycoendomycorrhizal fungi inoculant reduces that time
and gets your plant eating a wider array of nutrients faster.
And it's three times the concentration of the other popular brand in the US
at 900 propagules per gram of two fungal species
selected specifically for cannabis cultivation.
Dinomyco is the result of 30 years of research and trials
at the Volcani Agricultural Research Institute in Israel.
It has also been vigorously trialed by cannabis and food growers across the US.
Dinomyco is now available at grow shops and on Amazon in the United States.
I love using Dinomyco to both speed up the growth of the mycelium networks in the soil
but also as a biostimulant to make clone cuttings more virile.
You can see side by side showing the comparative growth on their Instagram at Dinomyco.
If you demand reliable growing results and appreciate the importance of an active root zone
in creating a thriving plant, I encourage you to check out Dinomyco.com
and use the store locator to find out where you can get yours.
That's D-Y-N-O-M-Y-C-O dot com.
Shaping Fire listeners can get 10% off any size of Dinomyco on Amazon or Dinomyco.com
by using the discount code SHAPINGFIRE, one word, no caps.
Whether you are starting with new beds or pots, or if you want to add some zing to tired soil,
choose Dinomyco to maximize your plant's potential.
Dinomyco, endomycorrhizal inoculant.
You've heard me talk about the award-winning cannabis seeds that come from the analytical breeding program
of Seth and Eric Crawford who founded Oregon CBD Seeds.
In fact, Seth was a guest on Shaping Fire in 2020 to talk about triploid genetics.
Seth and Eric are now releasing high THC seeds for home growers and farms
as Grow the Revolution Seeds at GTRCeeds.com.
Their high THC seeds are extraordinary in that they will start to flower at 16.5 hours of daylight
instead of the typical 14.5 hours of daylight.
That means in most regions, your plants will start to flower outdoors in the middle of July
instead of the middle of August, which means these photo-period plants finish in September
and not October, totally upending the photo-period seed market.
Seth and Eric took their prized early-flowering CBG line
and bred it to some of the most desired verified genetics out there
including Sour Diesel, Triangle Cush, Wedding Cake, Chem Dogs, Skittles, and others.
These crosses all express powerful photo-period terpene profiles and THC, giving you a great high.
GTRCeeds has a new THC V line with plants like Double Durban and Gigantor
that boast 1-to-1 THC to THC V, and people want that THC V.
GTRCeeds are very consistent, true-growing inbred F1s from stabilized inbred parent lines.
These seeds are nearly homogenous, and the plants should all grow the same.
There is only one phenotype in every pack, available as diploids and triploids.
Seth and Eric's company is still family-owned, patient and employee-centric,
and partially powered by their 2 acres of solar panels.
Everyone can purchase these seeds and the entire catalog of Oregon CBD seeds at GTRCeeds.com.
Go to GTRCeeds.com today and choose something revolutionary for your next indoor or outdoor run.
Online cannabis seed distributors often seem to be all the same,
but Multiverse Beans constantly works to provide you with cannabis seeds
and a buying experience that you won't find elsewhere.
Multiverse Beans works directly with the breeders to secure as many packs of your favorites as possible
so that they have your favorite beans long after others have sold out.
Some shops simply buy breeder minimums, but I get messages all the time from breeders saying
some version of Multiverse asked to buy my entire run.
At MultiverseBeans.com you can find rare cannabis seeds from Night Owl seeds,
including the Dark Owl sublabel, Mephisto Genetics, Square One Genetics,
Robin Hood seeds, Ethos, and so many others.
Multiverse also initiates projects with breeders to secure exclusive packs that you simply won't find elsewhere.
Multiverse founder Paul Lal sees himself not only as a curator of the best cannabis seeds available,
but also as a collaborator with breeders trying to bring novel crosses to the market that his customers are asking for.
Multiverse Beans also creates exclusive stickers for their popular seed varieties
that are available free only when you order those seeds from Multiverse.
Check out their stickers like the badass recent slap for Mothman by Gnome Automatics on Instagram at MultiverseBeans.
And finally, the freebies.
As you'd expect, Paul sends quality freebies with every order,
and when you spend at least $150, Multiverse allows you to choose your freebies from their special selections.
You can get a 10% discount off regularly priced items when you use the discount code SHAPINGFIRE, all one word, at checkout.
Sign up for their mailing list to be eligible for their monthly seed giveaway worth $250.
So go to MultiverseBeans.com now for a buying experience you won't get anywhere else.
Welcome back, you are listening to Shaping Fire, I'm your host, Shango Lose,
and my guest today is mycologist, Stephanie Garcia.
So, during the first set, we learned all about mycelium and that it is also not saprophytic fungus,
and all of the wonderful things that mycelium do first for itself, then for the plant,
but then also for everybody else who hangs out in the root zone.
So now we're going to talk specifically about the symbiotic relationship between mycelium networks and plants
that are expressed through mycorrhizae.
So we touched on mycorrhizae a bit at the beginning of the first set to separate endomycorrhizae and ectomycorrhizae,
based on how they interact differently with the root zone, with the roots themselves.
Let's start with how does mycorrhizae colonize the plant root system of cannabis?
From what I understand, there is a point when a plant is new or young,
where it is not fully colonized by mycorrhizae,
by fungus that is...
Boy, it's hard to talk about it once mycorrhizae is not a noun.
Once it's a description of a symbiotic relationship, it's a different way to talk about it.
So, how do you talk about it, Stephanie?
I didn't realize that.
How do you talk about it as a professional who talks about this all day?
Yeah, I mean, I guess you could, instead of maybe just focusing on the mycorrhizae or mycorrhizal fungi,
you could say the mycorrhizal hyphae or the fungal hyphae.
I see. So using the word mycorrhizae as a description of the type of fungus.
So it would be appropriate to say, Stephanie, would you explain to us
how mycorrhizae fungi colonize the plant root system of cannabis?
Yeah, yeah.
All right, I'll take that.
Yeah, sure. Absolutely.
All right.
We'll go with that.
All right, thank you.
Yeah, sure.
So when we think about the beginning of the symbiosis,
we first want to ask ourselves, how is this hyphae growing?
Where is this coming from?
Right.
So now in nature, hyphae is the greatest, let's say, propagule that we have.
And so when we say propagule, we're talking about,
if we think about cannabis, a propagule for cannabis is its seed.
Right.
When we think about fungi, there can be a few different types of propagules
and specifically our muscular mycorrhizal fungi.
So in nature, hyphae or mycelium is the greatest propagule in nature.
So we can start with fragments of mycelium.
We can start with spores.
That's another thing that would be considered a propagule.
We're trying to propagate this life form.
And however it propagates, it should be able to then become an adult
or go past this vegetative stage.
So we've covered the mycelium, the spore,
and then our muscular mycorrhizal fungi are interesting in that pieces of root
or we can call root fragments that previously contained
or were colonized by the our muscular mycorrhizal fungi
can also act as a propagule.
So some of these structures that are inside the root,
like hyphae, are produced within the root.
Those can also act as propagules.
So if you were incorporating some mycorrhizal inoculum
into your growth system,
you're going to have some of these propagules you put, right?
And you're probably going off this label recommendation.
To my understanding, there aren't any products currently in the US
that claim mycelium as a propagule.
And I think that has something to do more with shelf life,
possibly with how you quantify it,
how it can be regulated, things like that.
So primarily, if you were to, let's say, get some mycorrhizal inoculum
and look at it under the microscope,
you're going to see spores and you'll probably see pieces of root.
So you're going to start with that, right?
And then from that, the mycelium will grow.
That's going to be growing within your soil.
There's a lot of research about the signaling that goes on
for these fungi and how do they actually connect with the plant root, right?
That's really fascinating stuff because way back when,
it was really understood or thought, believed,
that the plant regulated the symbiosis.
So we know that plants release root exudates.
We know that there's a lot of other types of biochemical signaling going on.
But now, some of the people researching this signaling
are realizing that it's a lot more complex than we thought initially
and that potentially the fungi has a little bit more say in how it connects.
I used to think of it like, the plant is there,
the fungus approaches, like it's trying to get into a party,
and the plant's like, okay, you can bring in nutrients,
you can bring in beverages for me, or whatever it is.
Yeah, that's how I was taught too.
Right? Like, come on in.
And why would the plant not want to accept that?
It's almost like an insurance policy for the plant
that it's going to be getting enough nutrients and water and things like this.
But now there's some research going on to say that there's,
it's a lot more complex communication between the fungi and the plant.
But we do know that root exudates are released.
I think we're still really trying to understand root exudates.
I know currently there's about 100,000 compounds that have been identified
that roots are putting out there,
but we know that they play a role in the germination of spores
and then for that ultimate connection.
So yeah, once the mycelium approaches the root,
there's a very complex conversation that occurs.
And then ultimately they're able to penetrate into the root system.
And then they continue to grow.
And it's actually a physical penetration.
That's not just symbolic.
It actually, because of the size relationship,
the mycelium strands can actually enter the root itself,
not just the root zone.
Yep, that is correct.
And it was even just today,
we were looking for these special structures that they make when they penetrate.
It's a hyphopodium and it's a just small piece of tissue
and it anchors the mycelium to the root itself.
But yeah, it completely penetrates that and just continues to explore.
You know, this idea of these endomycorrhizae
spending some part of their life inside the plant root
totally reminds me of the bacterial rhizophagy cycle
that we discussed in detail with Jeff Lowenfeld back on Shaping Fire 96.
Are these two areas of science related in science at all?
Or is it just in my head because they're just two different things
that enter the plant for part of their life?
Yeah, I think everything's connected in ways like that.
I know that there's a lot of research on now with their,
I don't know if this is really a term that's been coined,
but mycorrhizal helper bacteria.
So I think things are definitely working synergistically.
So yeah, I think that that's a fair comparison.
Right on.
So let's talk about one of the roles that the mycorrhizae play
in this relationship with the plant.
The first one that I ever learned about,
and I'm certainly not suggesting I know a lot about it,
is the sugar and water for minerals exchange.
Would you walk us through that cornerstone process?
Yeah, sure.
So that really is at the heart of this exchange,
at the heart of this symbiosis.
So we talked a little bit in the earlier segment
about how mycorrhizal fungi,
they are reliant on the plant host for their carbon,
and that's all coming through photosynthates,
through that photosynthetic process.
And so that's really what the fungus wants from the plant.
We know that some fungi can exist,
some of the mycorrhizal fungi can exist without the plant host,
but primarily most of these species are dependent
on their carbon acquisition through photosynthates.
So that's really what they're after.
And the plant is willing to engage in this relationship
because they know, and they somehow know,
that the fungi is able to deliver different,
and it's not just the more minerals or micronutrients,
but even macronutrients, right?
So they know that if they allow this relationship to occur,
that they're also going to benefit in this other way
that maybe they wouldn't be able to do as well on their own.
I guess when somebody shows up with all of these quality inputs,
you get used to it, right?
Right, and why would you say no?
It's like, yeah, let's go.
So Kent, does mycorrhiza have the ability to live in the soil
without a root or something, a root or other,
in order to do this symbiotic exchange?
It might not be cannabis, but perhaps it's a dandelion
or something else.
But can the mycorrhizal fungus survive without a root?
There are many species that are obligate mycorrhizal fungi,
so they have to have a plant host to carry out their life cycle.
Now, if they didn't have access to a plant,
couldn't they go dormant? Certainly.
I see, that's what we're talking about.
Along with that last, I'm not sure.
But yeah, we know that there are many mycorrhizal fungi
that they just simply cannot carry out their life cycle
without their plant host, so they're going to need that root system.
While preparing and doing my background research for the episode,
it was really interesting to read all the different,
I'll just throw them in a big basket, of processes
that mycorrhizal fungi are able to do.
Like that cornerstone, sugar, waters for mineral exchange,
I'm picturing this mycorrhiza in the middle,
acting like a bartering agent, going,
hey, you got those there, you got those here,
I'll give those here, okay, alright, go!
Kind of like directing traffic, almost.
But then as you continue to read, it's like,
oh, also mycorrhiza can do this chemical transition,
and also if it finds this, it can do this.
The more I read, I'm like,
mycorrhiza has got this whole toolbox
of biological transitions and trades, I guess,
that it can do to make sure that the signals
and the nutrition and the water and everything
is all being transferred back and forth.
And I gotta tell you that it kind of makes them pretty badass,
because they're essentially making their own tools, right?
There's all these different things that they can do.
Would you explain some of the ways that mycorrhiza
defends the cannabis plant itself
from disease and pathogens and other things
that might do the plant harm?
Yeah, it really is fascinating when you think about them.
It's one reason I just think the kingdom fungi
is so incredible and why we do need more people
to step into the field, right?
And how it also, when you start reading it,
it really does start to read like it's intelligent.
It's really amazing, especially when you see a TikTok
or something that shows fungus beating puzzles and stuff,
and it's not like, damn, you know?
So anyway, please, how does the mycorrhiza
actually defend the cannabis plants
from diseases and pathogens
by using these various methods it has?
Yeah, there's a few things that come to mind right away.
I would say that overall, if you have a plant
that's receiving more water, more nutrients
than the plant's able to acquire on its own,
the plant health overall is just going to be better, right?
So you're just gonna have a more robust plant,
a plant that's maybe more resistant to an infection,
things like that.
So that's one thing that just comes to mind right away
is that if your plant overall is more healthy,
then it's going to be able to fight off different things
that might come its way.
One thing that is pretty well-researched
is tolerance to not only things like saline soils,
but also heavy metals.
So if for some reason that is happening for you,
the fungi, they can actually mitigate
how that is delivered to the plant
and essentially hold it within its mycelium.
So it pockets it away from the mechanics of the plant
so that the plant is shielded from it.
Yeah, and it's interesting,
outside of cannabis growing or things like that,
there's still a lot of saline soils in our world.
So that's pretty fascinating.
We've done some experiments
where we're just straight feeding in plant saltwater
and the mycorrhizal colonized plants,
they just look so good.
So we haven't done too much on the heavy metals,
but there's quite a bit of research on heavy metal uptake
and mitigation of those heavy metals.
So I think that that's really an interesting aspect
and things that they can do for your plants.
I know that there's other research
on prevention of infection,
and I don't know if that's just due to an increase
in overall plant health,
or if there's some other mechanism behind that
that we don't fully understand yet.
Right on.
So looking at the next question I have for you,
I have a feeling that this is going to be
one that you say,
ah, Shango, that's for saprophytic fungus.
But I'm going to go ahead and ask you anyway
because I'm super curious of the answer,
even if it is saprophytic.
So I was going to ask you that,
cannabis cultivators love ground cover
and companion plants for lots of reasons.
One being that the plants can all talk to each other
and trade nutrients and create pest defense.
And then I was going to say,
would you explain how mycelium processes
the signaling system?
But that's probably not mycelium in retrospect, is it?
I guess I'm having a hard time understanding
on the signaling system between the plants.
Yeah, I'll give you an example.
We hear about when groups of plants,
even if they're different varieties,
are planted together.
Then an aphids will attack one.
The plants will signal to the other local plants
that it's getting chomped on by aphids.
So the individual plants can use
whatever its strategy is to not get aphids.
Oh, sure, sure.
Yeah, I don't really know about that.
I wouldn't necessarily give all the saprophytic fungi
credit for that.
Right on.
But it definitely tells me that,
since you study mycorrhizae
and you don't know this particular thing,
that I definitely have put this activity
in the wrong bucket.
Well, I know that there is some signaling
of infection from tree to tree
that are colonized by fungi
to increase defenses or transfer nutrients over here
because now this plant is infected.
So I know that there's communication in that way.
So I wouldn't put it past that.
I just don't know if I could speak to that.
Yeah, fair enough, fair enough.
So, let's see here.
So the more we talk today,
the more I get this sense that mycelium
is more about transport
and breaking down nutrition
and moving it on a highway towards the root zone.
But when the nutrition gets to the root zone,
the mycorrhizae...
symbiosis with the plant kind of takes over
and does the actual barter, transmutation,
or process of bringing that nutrition
into the plant through this mutualistic relationship.
And then the plant is then, you know,
sending the nutrients that it's sharing
back down to the mycorrhizae...
activity mycelium,
and then that goes back down the line.
What I would like to know is,
is there anything physiologically different
at that connection point between the mycelium
and the plant root?
Where we would say,
oh, that is mycorrhizal fungus.
You can tell by looking at it.
Versus, does it just look like regular mycelium
that's just doing a different activity?
So when you're looking at the mycelium itself?
Yeah.
Yeah, you know, I don't think I could really tell a difference.
That's really interesting,
because the way that all of us...
I mean, and we cannabis people,
we talk about a lot of stuff wrong, right?
But we always talk about mycorrhizal fungi
as if it is like an absolutely different type of fungus.
And the more we talk,
the more that I realize that,
kind of as an industry,
we talk about it wrong.
Now, I will say with ectomycorrhizal fungi,
we talked a little bit about this mantle of mycelium
that covers the root system.
You can certainly find roots like that.
And you can know for sure,
like this is mycelium that is from...
This is an ectomycorrhizal fungi, right?
It's very obvious where the endomycorrhizal fungi or AMF,
that's a little bit more tricky
because they don't make this like mantle.
It's like this mat of mycelium over the root system.
So there is that.
I just kind of had that thought in there.
But yeah, I mean,
if you saw this mat of mycelium next to your plant
and next to the plant roots,
and that would be hard for me to know
unless I went, I collected some roots
and then I went through the process
of clearing the pigmentation, staining it, right?
And then visualizing it under the scope.
Right on.
Oh, go ahead.
I thought you were done.
Go ahead.
No, pretty much there was.
Just to make sure that this was the mycorrhizal fungi
that was responsible for all that other mycelium I saw.
But to distinguish it, yeah,
I think would be kind of challenging.
Right on. Thank you.
All right.
So to end this second set,
I just want to ask you one ectomycorrhizae question
because when I read this preparing for this show,
it caught me way off guard.
And I would like to learn more about this
if you know about it.
I read that ectomycorrhizae have been known
to lure springtails to obtain nitrogen from them.
How the heck does that happen?
I don't know.
I don't know anything about that,
but I'm certainly going to look into that after this.
Have you ever heard, outside of this particular example,
have you ever come across examples of mycorrhizae
acting like they are trapping anything like that?
When we learned how aphids farm and things like,
no, no, it's the ants farm the aphid larva.
That's some really interesting stuff to happen
at that level of biology, right?
And so have you heard of any other examples
of mycorrhizae doing that sort of thing?
It makes me think of like cordyceps
and how that can drive certain insects.
Like it can take over the neurological system,
drive them to the top of the canopy,
eventually consume them completely.
I haven't ever heard that with the ectos.
But I do know that ectos have a lot more claims
to prevent, like let's say insect herbivory.
I don't know if that's just because that mantle
is covering the root system,
so it's like this physical shield of defense for the plant.
But just knowing that there are other mechanisms
like the cordyceps.
I'm kind of a romantic when it comes to fungi, though.
I'm like, they can do anything, right?
So I'm definitely curious about what you read there.
And now I want to look into that,
but it's not something I'm really aware of.
Right on.
Well, I got it just from an article
I found through Wikipedia, so it's there if you want it.
It's really interesting, too,
to look at all the different tools that the mycorrhiza has.
It's got different processes.
It's got barters that it can be in the middle of
to get what it needs to get done.
It's got the soil version of chemical signals and smells.
I think of terpenes.
There may or may not be root terpenes.
But the idea of all these different tools it's got,
I imagine, oh yeah, the ectomycorrhiza
is excreting some chemical that springtails love.
And then when it gets close enough,
I imagine how the hell does fungus move fast enough
to catch a springtail?
But again, you already said you don't know,
so it's hard to not wonder, though.
It kind of just reminds me of enzymes that are released.
They are these types of digestive enzymes,
you can think of them like that,
to break down the non-biologically available nutrients.
But yeah, when you think about how slow the fungi move,
which is one reason I like them, they just stay put.
But yeah, that's a good question.
We'll have to try to get somebody that's listening
to enlist in a PhD project on this.
Right on, excellent.
Let's go ahead and take our second commercial break.
We'll be right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire,
and my guest today is mycologist Stephanie Garcia.
There are so many seed banks nowadays
that you really have options in who to choose.
Not only that, if you pick the wrong seed bank,
you could be in for a really sketchy ride.
And that's only one of the reasons I recommend
Gaslamp Seeds to my friends and listeners
who are looking for a seed bank.
You probably already know Gaslamp Seeds
as Hembra Genetics.
Hembra recently changed their name
to Gaslamp Seeds.
Gaslamp Seeds is not just another seed bank.
Gaslamp is a female-operated boutique cannabis
genetics provider that only sells
thoughtfully curated seeds
that are genetically modified
and can be used for a variety of purposes.
With over 60 breeders and over 1000 strains
to choose from,
you will certainly find something you'll love.
Gaslamp Seeds has something for everyone
with over 650 feminized strains,
300 regular varieties,
and over 200 auto flowers to choose from.
Names you know you can trust,
like Compound Genetics,
Humboldt Seed Company,
Night Owl, In House,
Fast Buds,
Gnome Automation,
and Ethos.
And we both know that there are other seed banks
who will take your money
but have no customer service.
I invited Gaslamp to advertise
on Shaping Fire after hearing so many
good stories about them from my friends.
They have A-plus customer service
with lightning fast response times.
In most cases,
Helene and Kaitlin will get your order out
the same day you place it.
Most seed banks are simply not this organized
or interested in getting your seeds to you
so fast.
But Gaslamp Seeds cares.
You even get free seeds with every order.
Helene and Kaitlin get it.
They have been in the cannabis growing scene
for over a decade.
Want some extra freebies?
Use the code SHAPINGFIRE
all one word at checkout
and they will give you an additional set
of Gaslamp provided freebies.
That's an extra $30 in free seeds.
Buy seeds from good folks
who will send you great seeds
reliably every time.
Visit GaslampSeeds.com today.
That's Gaslamp Seeds.
The cannabis seed market
is filled with big name
and hype breeders
fighting to get your attention.
And occasionally you discover a breeder
who is breeding because it is the only thing
they care to do and they would be doing it
even if they never made a dime.
That's my friend Craig Hartsaw
who makes seeds as Magnetic Genetics.
Craig comes from a family
of five generations of farmers
and is earning his master's degree
in horticulture right now.
He's been growing cannabis for 15 years
and been breeding for 9.
He hasn't sold many seeds
because he really isn't a sales guy
but I've personally been growing his seeds for years
and I know I can always rely on his seeds
to germinate, thrive, and smell
and taste great.
I suggested to Craig that he should probably
sell some seeds and asked if he had
enough stockpiled to bother.
Much to my shock, he was sitting on
5 full menus in cold storage
that he produced in the last 2 years
and hadn't even tried to sell any of them.
He was simply too busy breeding.
Well, we his friends
convinced him to make his damn seeds available
to the people and now they are.
For the first time anywhere
you can now buy Magnetic Genetic Seeds
at Neptune Seed Bank and on
stranley.io
Neptune Seed Bank has just picked
up Magnetic Genetics for a trial to
engage your interest.
They are carrying 3 strains from his
Mean Mug, Prominence, and Turpinado
menus which are exclusive
to Neptune. It's an easy way
to score his seeds.
You can pick up those menus plus
his Hillbilly Skunk and Candy Breath
crosses and more on his
profile page on stranley.io
If you want very
affordable seeds that are exceptional
quality with rare terpene profiles
from a good guy, go to
NeptuneSeedBank.com or
stranley.io
Sometimes it is fun to buy the hype thing
from the brand you admire, but when
you're ready to buy the strain you'll love from
an obscure mad scientist,
you're ready for Magnetic Genetics.
MagneticGenetics.org
and on Instagram
Magnetic Genetics
There are a lot of good people launching
new businesses in cannabis, psilocybin
and other psychedelics.
It's a very strange time for us.
In the same moment that psilocybin mushrooms are
illegal at the federal level,
they are becoming increasingly legal in
states across the country.
These businesses leading the way into the future
of plant medicines require
specialized legal representation
by attorneys who have depth not only
in litigation, mergers and acquisitions
but also in psychedelic and other
plant medicines.
Green Light Law Group has been
empowering cannabis businesses since
2014 and as the market
diversified into psilocybin and other
plant medicines, Green Light has
been right there evolving with their
diverse clients to provide
legal expertise with a high level of
legal acumen, creative strategy
and precision that comes
with an intimate and specific understanding
of both business law
and plant medicine.
If you are a business owner trying to
navigate the layered local and national
drug laws on your own, you are
at risk of fumbling.
These confusing and quickly changing laws
complicate everything.
Green Light Law Group is ready to help you
when hit with a lawsuit, or
because you were shafted by a vendor
or business partner, or simply because
you want to stay legal and could use some
preventative guidance before cultivating
a controlled substance as an entrepreneur.
Green Light Law Group
is a collection of folks who care profoundly
about their work and I know this is true
because I know the folks from Green Light.
There is a huge difference between
a big legal firm who has decided to start
representing a few drug companies
versus working with a collection of high
integrity, passionate lawyers
who are personally interested in new plant
medicines and firmly believe in
their power to heal.
Contact Green Light Law Group today
and learn more about the services
they can offer your industry leading cannabis
or psychedelics company.
That's Green Light Law Group
at GreenLightLawGroup.com
Welcome back, you are listening to Shaping
Fire, I am your host, Shango Los
and my guest today is mycologist, Stephanie
Garcia. So here we are in
the third set. During the first set, we
talked about mycelium networks
and the roles they do and
don't play in the soil.
And then we talked about mycorrhizae
symbiosis between the mycelium
and the plant and
all the myriad tools
that mycorrhizae
have got in the toolbox
to be able to do all the various
processes that they are responsible for.
Well, here in set three, we are going to
talk about supporting mycelium
and the mycorrhizae symbiosis
in your garden.
So we are going to talk about some best practices
and maybe some
less than best practices.
So, Stephanie, you know, today
we have been mostly talking about
living soil because that's mostly what
Shaping Fire talks about
as a show, but lots of cannabis growers
use soilless mediums
like coco coir and peat
or rockwool.
Do mycelium networks grow
in these other non-living
soil mediums?
Yeah, they certainly can.
So you say they can.
Because you don't have as
complex of a biological
environment in some
of these soilless mediums as
you would have in living
soil. Do they
present themselves differently?
Or are there only particular strains
of mycelium that can take
to that environment?
Maybe I'm wrong, but it just seems to me
that with
so much less of the biology
that happens in living soil
that's not in coco, peat
and rockwool, that there would be some
kind of differences
between how
mycelium and mycorrhiza present themselves
but perhaps it's not.
Yeah, I think
one thing, we've done a few
hydroponic studies, not
with cannabis, but I know that there have also
been some hydroponic studies in cannabis
with mycorrhizal
fungi and
I know that
they're able to
establish in that type of system
and maybe
they're not
as reliant on the nutrients
because they're really
communicating with the plant root system
I know in these studies
that I've read about with cannabis
that
they've shown to
increase plant vigor
and so
yeah, I would think that
they would act somewhat different, but as far
as the benefit to the plant
these studies suggested that
they were still
able to perform.
So I want to ask about
water and mycelium
networks again, but not like what we talked about
water earlier about
how mycelium helps create good
soil structure, which allows the water to
get through it, and how by it
retaining water, it helps the plant
you know
not dry out in drought conditions
it does all these really good
water retention aspects
I want to talk more about
we as cultivators watering
the plant. I can imagine
that
like anything, even water
that is helpful can become dangerous
if it's given too much of it
and I imagine that if we
over water, it'll cause
the mycelium networks to rot
and then if we under water
maybe
they'll dry out and cyst up
so now they're not working either
and so as cultivators, we kind of want to get
to this sweet spot somewhere in the middle
where we're providing enough water
for everything to thrive
but not enough to throw the mycelium network
out of balance
so do you have any advice around that for us?
Yeah, sure
so I think one thing to consider
is that
mycorrhizal fungi
they're actually really good at
helping the plants resist
drought, right?
so there's a lot of mechanisms
that mycorrhizae have where
the mycorrhizae help store the water
they can also explore for it
so
it's not, I think, as
big of an issue for them
to be a little bit under watered
right?
they seem to perform
the plants seem to perform really well
with a reduction in water
I know there's been a lot of research
and we've done a little research
with the group I'm with
on watering amount
and some people would suggest
you don't have to water as much if you
have this mycorrhizal
association going
not really sure
how people would feel about that
reducing their watering and everything
like that but
I think that if
they have these root
systems established
then
they're just really well equipped
to face that
the stresses of drought
and they can bounce back
even if water becomes less and less
available. I think that's a really good example
of why
mature
soil environments
whether it's in a pot or
a bed or a raised
bed or something that
mature soils with
lots of fungal networks
that are mature
are just really going to give you
a lot more of a buffer as a cultivator
because
it
it's more flexible
than a pot
that we just
mixed some soil and threw it in
and put our clone in there
and now
that pot is going to be
have much fewer
defenses than a mature pot
that's packed with mycelium networks
Yeah
and even thinking about
this over watering
just like we talked about
some of the
saline soil and the heavy
metal or
uptake mitigation
the mycelium can also help
with uptake mitigation of water
so say you're over watering
I think mycelium
is really good at holding that
and just helping to deliver
this really nice amount of water
to the plant
now I'm not saying you can
over water but mycelium
is just going to take care of it
you know we have to be conscientious of
that as well
but your bandwidth of success is going to
be wider with more mycelium
yeah absolutely
two more or
another question about water quality
does
does the pH water or how much
mineral content it has on it
have any impact on the mycelium networks
yeah I mean they don't
you know they're similar to other
things that we grow where they kind of want
that neutral pH right
we do see
responses if they have a really low pH
or really high pH that they don't
colonize and they don't
perform very well
I've had this idea which
is not scientific
just based on observation
that
I wonder whether or not high mineral
water would be
more difficult for mycelium
to transport because of
its high mineral nature I think of it as like
chunky water
and perhaps the mycelium
either needs to A separate
out the minerals
that are in the water or B just
refuses to use it
do you have anything to offer on this
idea of mineral water
yeah the only thing I
would imagine is if I was
the fungal hyphae
or if I was the mycelium in there
and the water was too chunky for me to deal
with I would probably try to secrete some
enzymes to break it down
to make it easier to transport
yeah
it's an interesting theory
so after we break up the soil
say for example
we tend to
encourage
no-till as a general idea
sometimes we're in positions where
we just want to refresh a pot
and we want to pop out the soil
and we want to break it up and maybe we
amend it and then maybe
we're putting it in a new pot because our
pots are getting old and janky
and so the soil
is aged soil
and until we broke
it up it had
a pretty complex mycelium
network but then we
broke it up and so now we've got all these
propagule strands
right? and you were telling us
earlier how any one of those strands
can start a new
network
how long would you
suggest that it's going to take
from the day that
I pop out the soil and break
it up and amend it and put it back
into a pot
until those
pieces
of mycelium
find each other and get themselves
reassociated
and then are functioning and doing their job again
so in this scenario
we're thinking of
you've replanted a plant
there's a plant in there
there's a cannabis start in there
yeah beautiful
so this is a
great question
I know that if we're growing
these fungi in vitro
culture so if we're in the lab
doing this, this can take a couple weeks
two to three weeks before the plant
or yeah before the plant
and the fungi come together
and create that symbiosis
in this one study
I'm thinking about and it was with cannabis
it was about
it was suggested that it's about six
weeks but that there
were these benefits that were
noticed even ahead
of that time
so when we run our bioassays
we usually let it go eight weeks
and that
that's the timeline
that we've stuck with to see
this was a really good colonized root
system
so we know that in those
lab conditions everything is perfect
we have this
spore right next to this
root organ culture
it's connecting
we're putting it right in this perfect condition
and we can see that in a couple weeks
we run those bioassays for eight weeks
we have a study here that says six weeks
so
it's a little more challenging
if you have something that doesn't go
very long like some of our
hydroponic studies for example
we're looking at lettuce
well after a month of growing lettuce
hydroponically it's time to harvest it
so it was really hard for us to
find really good colonization
throughout and all of the
huge root biomass that it produced
so
yeah I think we generally tell people
to
that you wouldn't see any type of effects
for you know
three or four weeks
so that's
that's exactly what I was going for
and the follow up is
I really think that this makes a case
that if we are going to do any kind of
that rejuvenation of pots
where we're going to be breaking up
mature pots
maybe resoiling some
and then putting them back in
that we really want to do that
either much earlier
in the spring
or even the prior fall
and in either case
either add like a small
cover crop I love of small plants
or maybe like a
or maybe like comfrey or something to be a
placeholder for our cannabis plant
so that by the time
you know end of May
comes and we want to start
planting our cannabis starts
into the soil that that
work of reconnecting
all of the mycelial strands
has already been
done because as you and I
are discussing it
you know a lot of people will
break up the pots
do the amendment, fill up
the pots and then put their
cannabis plants in there within a week
and that tells me that through
at least
most of their veg period
that plant is living
in a sub optimum
living environment because
mycelium networks
are broken at that point
yeah absolutely
and when you think about some of these
you know we're more in this
agricultural I mean more
agricultural type industry
and when we talk about regenerative ag
I mean that's the thing
you're trying for minimal disturbance
right no till or strip
tillage but if you can't do that
ok you can't do that right
but like what you're saying
makes so much sense because you can
you know do your amendments
do whatever you know you're thinking
you really need to do to the soil
and then plant that cover crop
let it sit there I mean having
roots even with your
crop right relieving this
type of compaction and things
like that
it makes sense same thing with like
crop diversity
right or like a rotation
right you kind of want to get
away from that I've always
planted this one plant in this soil
it takes the nutrients
different right
and then try to replenish it with like a type of
cover crop
you know one thing I was thinking
when
you were saying this was
and asking these questions and something
just kind of came to mind is
it's really interesting that
we will let these
bioassays go for 8
weeks right but
there's been so many
experiences I've had
where I inoculate
in transplant and I've
seen a clear impact
of reduction
of transplant shock
so it's
I'm not really sure exactly what that's
due to is this some type
of carrier
effect
does somehow the plant
know this fungus is there and they're
releasing some other types of
root exudates but that's something
that I've witnessed quite a bit
at applying microazole
fungi and this inoculum
as you see this transplant
shock
like resistance
and that's just something interesting
to me because if we don't see that symbiosis
occurring for
however long it might
not occur for but then we're still seeing
some type of positive impact
it just makes me wonder what else is going
on below the ground
for sure it does for sure again
more room for research for the people coming up
absolutely
are there specific soil amendments
that either help or hinder
mycelium and
mycorrhizae symbiosis
the answer may just be
well keep your soil generally
balanced and healthy and that's reasonable
but there also could be
some amendment that you're like oh
this is a key building block
for mycelium
networks and you should make sure
that you add this or something
yeah that's a great question I know that
we've read some literature
about biochar being helpful
and you know increasing
colonization
I know that we
really avoid having
anything really high in phosphorus
so high phosphorus contents
can really
reduce the level
of colonization
so I just say to consider
definitely consider the phosphorus
content it's interesting because
mycorrhizal fungi are so wonderful
at acquiring phosphorus
that's like their flagship nutrient
but if you plant it
if you plant this plant
in this really phosphorus rich environment
the mycorrhizal fungi doesn't
establish maybe because it thinks
why do I need to be here
yeah my job would be redundant
right so
there's a lot of research on
on phosphorus
phosphorus levels
and even fertilizing with a lower p
when
that's becoming established
right on and I've got a
fertilizer question to follow up that with
you know while we focus
mostly on natural farming techniques on
shaping fire many folks
choose the ease of using
you know salt based fertilizers
and A plus B kind of stuff
for indoors how do these
sort of like sodium fertilizers
impact mycelium
and the mycorrhizal symbiosis
in any way
well we
I don't know really but
I know that we had to use some of that
material in our hydroponic study
and the lettuce
that study wasn't as successful
but we also worked with basil
and it seemed to still
you know it was still able
to work with it we just made sure that the p
was low
because that's really important
so to
kind of wrap this up a little bit
you know
this the more I prepared
for this show
the more complex I realized that
my mycelium networks and
mycorrhizal symbiosis is right
I was like you know a couple
days into building my
question path for this episode
and I'm like holy crap this is like two
episodes like
and a college course right like there's so
much here and you of course
is somebody who's dedicated themselves to studying
fungus knows this so
as kind of a wrap up there are
certainly things that
that I didn't ask you
because I didn't know
to ask you because I don't have
the depth that you have got
and if our goal
with this show was to
you know have
cannabis cultivators be more
aware of mycelium
networks to consider them
more and
how to support them
when they are growing either
in beds or in containers
and then
understand the mycorrhizal
symbiosis and the importance
of it so we continually
respect the role
that the living soil is
playing
What would you
say is that something that
I may have missed that
would be helpful to
cultivators in making
sure they've got healthy
and functioning mycelial networks
Yeah
I mean I think you asked some amazing
questions I think that
you covered
things really well
I mean everything from the mycelium
to describing mycorrhizal fungi their role
everything like that I think one thing that
we didn't
necessarily touch on was just
mycorrhizal
products and not to put any
not going to put any type
of plugs in there for any particular
product but what I would tell
people to be aware of
is label claims
right so if you're
if you want to incorporate mycorrhizal
fungi by
going out and buying a product
look at the claim
don't just look at
this soil contains mycorrhizae
because one thing
I've really noticed
through my time with
the company I'm working with now
is there's a lot of products out there that
will claim we have
mycorrhizae right
but when you look at their claim
it's extremely low
and so you know
if you're having a fraction
of
a fraction of a propagule
for a cubic
inch of soil that's really not
going to do you any good
so just be aware
that there are a lot
of products out there that might have a really
low claim and so you
may think you're introducing
mycorrhizal fungi through
soils or different
inoculums but just try to educate
yourself on
on the levels
and if you see something coming in at a fraction
of a propagule it's probably
not delivering what you're hoping
it will. Right on
that is really insightful I'm glad that you
added that and you know this is
this is also something
that we talk about when we're talking about
microbe communities right because there's
all these like
new to the market
microbe community
infusion
products right and
people just buy them because
they like the marketing of it
but then
if somebody with a
biology background looks
at the label they're all like
what is this?
and
I think it's good for all of us to
be savvy and a bit skeptical
consumers when it
comes to science
that we may not be entirely
familiar with. Yeah I mean
really with all of our products right
but and you know even
questioning even seeing
claims that you think are
okay cool this seems like a
decent enough
level I'm
more of a fan of over inoculating
as long as the carrier isn't
going to cause any type of phytotoxicity
you know
sometimes
companies will say you know apply
this much and this is what's best
you know on the business aspect
but
I'm a bit more
of a fan of giving it a little
extra let's just put it that way
right on right on so another
good point to know your carrier
know what your filler products are
in whatever products you're using. Right
yeah so Stephanie thank you
so much for spending your time
with us today and sharing your
insight into mycelium networks
and the mycorrhizae symbiosis
I know that I learned
a lot especially about the
mycorrhizae symbiosis
like when
I really got to wrapping my
head around that
it is a process more than a
thing
clearly it broke my brain there
in set one but
throughout the rest of the show
I realized that the impacts that
that has as far as how I've been taking care of
my own
growing containers so
thank you for sharing your
insight and your time
and your good cheer with everybody here
on Shaping Fire
you're so welcome it's really been a pleasure
awesome so
if you would like to get in
contact with Stephanie Garcia
you can do so through
LinkedIn unlike some of our
other guests she's not super
active on the
Instagram that we normally give you
that's because she's in the lab
where she's doing
the great work but if there's some
reason that you want to reach out to her
you can reach her on LinkedIn
and that's
Stephanie with a PH and
not an F
you can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast
and subscribe to the show at Shapingfire.com
and wherever you get your podcasts
if you enjoyed the show we'd really
appreciate it if you would leave a positive review of the
podcast wherever you download
your review will help others find the show
so they can enjoy it too
on the Shaping Fire website you can also subscribe
to the newsletter for insights into the
latest cannabis news, exclusive videos
and giveaways
on the Shaping Fire website you will also find transcripts
of today's podcast as well
be sure to follow on Instagram for all original
content not found on the podcast
that's at Shaping Fire
and at shangolos on Instagram
be sure to check out the Shaping Fire
YouTube channel for exclusive interviews, farm tours
and cannabis lectures
does your company want to reach our national audience
of cannabis enthusiasts?
email hotspot at Shapingfire.com
to find out how
thanks for listening to Shaping Fire
I've been your host, Shango Los
