To folks on the outside who are not familiar with cannabis, the medicinal qualities of
the plant can appear overblown in a pipe dream, quite literally.
And they are right that most of us talk about cannabis as a panacea because it does offer
relief from so many bodily ailments.
And those folks say, how can one herb fix so many things in a human?
That simply cannot be true.
But the thing is that cannabis really only does one thing.
It balances and strengthens and interacts with the body's endocannabinoid system.
Balancing and activating that one system is a very big deal though because the endocannabinoid
system touches all the other mission-critical systems in the human body.
At the same time though, not all humans react to cannabis in the same way.
By now, most cannabis users understand how completely the terpene profile controls the
quality of euphoria that cannabis gives us when smoked or vaped.
And terpenes themselves influence humans in differing ways, which is why some folks
can smoke any and all equatorial cultivars while I have to be really picky with mine
or I get a racing heart that I find dysphoric.
We all have our very own personal and individual relationship with cannabis.
All of this is to say that cannabis helps the endocannabinoid system of all humans.
But which cannabis cultivar, used in which way, and at which dose are all variable from
human to human.
It really makes me cringe to see cannabis folks arguing on social media about some patient's
dosing protocol because to really understand how best to administer cannabis to a patient
really takes a pretty in-depth patient intake or some advanced self-awareness and self-diagnosing.
Folks are usually arguing as if dosing is the same for everyone and it very much isn't.
Whole-plant cannabis medicine is a great tool and we need to recognize how to use it is
dictated to a large degree by the physical health, nutrition, expectations, mental health,
and experience with cannabis that the patient has.
Every cannabis patient is different and deserves to be treated uniquely.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, business, and technique efficiently and with
good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
We'll send you new podcast episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox, along
with commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week and videos, too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published.
Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I'm your host, Shango Lose.
My guest today is Dr. Chris Spooner.
Dr. Spooner is a naturopathic doctor with 20 years clinical experience with specialties
in gastrointestinal and integrative medicine, among others.
He has been a board member and vice chair of the College of Naturopathic Physicians
of British Columbia since 2008.
Dr. Spooner is presently on the medical advisory boards of several integrative care and cannabis
companies.
Even with all of that, Chris still keeps an active private clinical practice at Paradigm
Integrative Medicine, helping real people every day.
Today we're going to discuss the wide range of variables at play in the human body to
consider when making cannabis recommendations.
During the first set, we talk about those body variables and how unique each human is
when it comes to cannabis medicine.
During the second set, we review the analytical tools and tests we can use when performing
a patient intake or serious self-diagnosis.
In the third set, we talk about easy to access whole foods that you can eat to support a
thriving endocannabinoid system.
Welcome to the show, Chris.
Hey, Shango.
Great to be here.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Let's start by giving everybody a really good idea of the variables at play when discussing
the use of cannabis medicine.
Humans are not at all the same, even though textbooks about the human body and the discussion
of the endocannabinoid system may suggest that they are.
Let's start.
Can you give us a sense of the variety of health variables that could potentially impact
the use of cannabis medicine and should be considered when choosing how best to use cannabis
to relieve ailments?
Sure.
Super interesting question.
This definitely falls within my integrated medicine, functional medicine, naturopathic
medicine approach.
This is an approach that I use pretty much with all my patients, whether it be cannabis
medicine or not.
Essentially, what we're really trying to do is recognize that you've got individual patients.
I think one of the challenges that we have with medicine right now is that we're using
evidence-based medicine.
We're trying to protocols and standardization part of it.
What we've forgotten is that we're creating medicine by average.
I was just having this conversation with a patient yesterday.
I was showing them a data set and some slides saying, okay, well, there's this nice graph
line down the middle of it.
When you take a look at the number of data points that are actually on the best fit line,
there's only four and the other 150 are above or below.
That starts to become something that's become a real foundation on how I work with patients
on this, which is we need to recognize and we've got to really dig into these unique
aspects of patients.
When I start off, there's a couple of things that I take a look at first and foremost.
It's a base of a pyramid.
Each one successively builds on the next.
To me, optimizing nutrition has got to be key in this.
I think that when you start looking at the cannabinoids and the endocannabinoids in particular,
all of these things are basically built off fats in our body.
The macronutrient part of it, the omega-3s, omega-6, saturated fat status of our diets
becomes really, really important.
I think we need to remember the endocannabinoid system is a homeostatic regulatory system,
which means that you can only push it so far versus the other.
It's actually a balancing thing.
If we're trying to create a super intense therapeutic effect on it, I think we're going
to cap that out at both ends of that along the continuum of one extreme versus the other.
We need to look at ways to build capacity within that and try to unload it so that we
allow the endocannabinoid system to balance as opposed to push.
Before you move on, we're not even three minutes into the show and you've already blown my
mind.
Did you just say that if our nutrition is lacking, the cannabinoid therapy will only
be able to do so much because our body won't have the capacity to properly use the cannabis
we're introducing?
Absolutely.
Wow.
All right, please continue.
You can carry that theme through the whole range of things that I'm suggesting here.
If we start off, like I said, with optimizing the nutrition, and again, you can talk about
things like fats and protein status and amino acids and such.
If we talk about micronutrients, the area that I do a lot of work with with my patients
is nutrigenomics.
We'll use the 23andMe platforms, the one we tend to use the most.
Some people have concerns about that for a number of different reasons, mostly about
where their health data and things like that's going in, but it certainly is accessible.
That's a whole other conversation we could have.
Certainly within that, you see variability within patient populations on, again, how
they build different parts of things that intersect with the endocannabinoid system.
Those are things that can be modulated, again, macronutrient and micronutrients.
That's probably, again, that's a fairly deep dive into, okay, what's the diet that you're
looking at?
Let's take a look at some of the physical signs and symptoms.
We can be looking at various different nutrient deficiencies.
That starts to become part of the conversation and basic history building that I do.
Next thing we take a look at is hormones, and hormones build off of your nutritional
status as well, too.
We're talking estrogen, progesterone, testosterone.
We can move into some of the neurotransmitter part of that as well, too, whether we're talking
dopamine, serotonin, epinephrine, norepinephrine, cortisol levels.
All of those have huge interplays with regards to effects on metabolism and blood glucose.
You need to have, if your carbohydrate metabolism, blood sugar is off, is that an impact on cortisol
or a response to altered cortisol status and adrenal function?
Again, your dietary habits start to build in on that as well, too.
That starts to become the next part of that.
We also take a look, and if we look at the nutrigenomics part of this, things like catechol,
like dopamine, for example, is a catecholamine.
It's impacted by a whole host of network of different estrogen metabolism, cortisol, epinephrine,
norepinephrine, and those build on, again, various different micronutrients like B vitamins
and methylation status on neurotransmitter production.
Suddenly now, you're seeing this intersection here, and how those hormones and neurotransmitters
are cleared out of the system, particularly through something called catechol-O-methyltransferase,
which is an enzyme that's the warrior versus the warrior phenotype, if anybody's been following
that aspect of it.
That has, in my experience, has significant implications for endocannabinoid tone and
response.
Furthermore, it probably explains to a large extent what's going on with, for example,
the gender differences that we see, how women versus males respond differently.
Largely, that has a significant interplay with estrogen metabolism and impacts on dopamine.
That starts to become something that's super, super interesting.
There's that element of it.
The next stage that I start taking a look at is the gastrointestinal tract.
I do tons of work.
It's one of the areas that I work outside of cannabis medicine with several other companies
with, which is on microbiome.
That suddenly ties in hugely with our endocannabinoid.
There's some really interesting research that takes a look at the endocannabinoid system
as the intersection between the gut microbiome and the gut-brain access.
The implications of that on endocannabinoid system functioning are fascinating as well, too.
This becomes something that, again, when you base it on our nutrition, the types of fibers
that we start to make.
For example, if we wanted to dig down into this a little bit more, and again, obviously,
we've got some time to talk about this, so you'll probably find I skit around over places.
Let's take a look at something like GABA, the endocannabinoid system.
The CB1 receptors, they have significant impacts on GABA and glutamate.
Those are the excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitters.
One of the interesting things is, if we take a look at the gut microbiome, butyrate is
a short-chain fatty acid.
Anybody who's ever smelled rancid butter, that's butyrate.
It's produced by the microbiome in the large intestine, the bacteroides species of bacteria
that colonize the large intestine.
It gets it by fermenting different types of fibers, particularly things like psyllium
powder and oat bran are two big sources of it as well, too.
There's several others as well, but that's what I use predominantly.
Butyrate is actually the building block for GABA, gamma-amino butyric acid, so butyrate
butyric.
Suddenly, now, you're taking a look at one of the major regulatory neurotransmitters
within the endocannabinoid system.
The significant component of it is being generated in our gastrointestinal tract by
our microbiome and the type of fiber that we eat.
Suddenly that has huge implications on this as well, too.
That becomes a really significant element.
I do seminars for continuing medical education for patients on gut ecology and gut microbiome
and how that works and intersects with immune function and T-cell polarization and this
type of thing as well, too.
There's some really interesting intersections.
Again, when we start talking about endocannabinoids, when we start thinking about anti-inflammatory
effects and immunological effects, how much of that is this intersection with gut microbiome
and T-cell polarization through mucus associated in lymphoid tissue and this type of thing.
That's that part of it.
My past work was in environmental medicine.
I did a post-doctorate down at Phoenix at the Southwest College of Naturopathic Medicine.
We created an environmental medicine center of excellence.
Dr. Walter Crinion, who you guys actually probably up in the Washington State area would
know him.
He was quite highly regarded for environmental medicine, had a very large clinic up there.
I had the opportunity to spend a lot of time and learn from him.
We got to spend things like working with the Phoenix Fire Department and setting up a wellness
center and working at getting heavy metals out of guys that went to Hurricane Katrina,
9-11 and stuff, and trying to get rid of various different toxins and the implications on that.
That part became part of these detoxification pathways.
Certainly in that work, that's probably where I ended up getting a lot of my interest in
genomics, because we were taking a look at genetic variation and cytochrome P450 enzymes,
which are the enzymes that clear out a large, significant amount of what we call xenobiotics
or chemicals within the environment.
How those things get out of our system is run through the liver, which is this big filter.
That has implications on drug metabolism and how that clears out.
Again, when we took a look at environmental pollutants, things like solvent exposures
and pesticides and heavy metals, what we looked at is that had three areas that they affected.
Neurological, immune function and endocrine.
Suddenly when we start taking a look at the impacts of environmental compounds and these
xenobiotics and how that starts to impact hepatic function and clearance and how genetic
polymorphisms and variations start to impact that, then suddenly again, there's all sorts
of connections and intersections happening with endocannabinoid system.
Certainly, Ethan, Dr. Russo and I were just doing that work on the genetics of cannabis
hyperemesis syndrome.
What we were seeing in there was some genetic variance on some of these drug clearance pathways,
which again intersects with pharmacogenomics and potentially this environmental medicine
type thing.
Certainly, one of the things that I look at in the work that I've done with some of the
licensed producers up here in Canada is we've really tried to emphasize, hey, look, pesticides
are a problem.
Even especially with hemp, for example.
One of the things I think that gets missed a little bit is that hemp is a bioaccumulator
of cadmium.
Now, you're going to have to start taking a look and paying attention.
Those heavy metals need to be looked at, especially when we're doing concentrates.
Is that starting to be something?
Cadmium's a fairly nasty metal that has some significant implications, particularly on
estrogen metabolism.
There's your detoxification pathways.
Right on.
For those who are keeping score at home, I'm seeing four variables so far that you delineated
that you talk to your patients about as you are moving towards your diagnosis and figuring
out cannabis protocols.
Number one being what is the state of their nutrition because they have to have the capacity
to be able to intake the cannabinoids.
Two was hormones.
Three was the status of their GI tract.
Four would be environmental influences that might be acting on the endocannabinoid system.
Before we go into those in any more depth, is there more on that list?
That's it.
A couple of things that I want to focus on which just glowed in your answers, but I didn't
want to interrupt you.
The first thing is you mentioned with some amount of coarseness to it that there are
gender differences when it comes to using cannabis.
There is just not a lot being talked about on that.
Would you go into that a little bit?
Sure.
Let's see.
Where do we start on this one?
How do the health benefits of using cannabinoid medicine differ between men and women and
others?
There are a couple of different areas that I would look at this.
I guess what I was trying to think is how do we put this into a logical framework that
makes sense.
I think where I'd probably start with this, we see different responses.
Women in general have different responses to dopamine.
That's a large factor because dopamine and estrogen get cleared out through this COMT
enzyme.
What tends to happen is that the system can be overloaded.
It has to clear out.
I usually use the analogy of we've got a kitchen sink.
What's the size of the drain in the kitchen sink?
Within that sink, we're pouring in these various different hormones and neurotransmitters.
Obviously for women, as estrogen levels start to rise, you're going to have a more significant
capacity consumed by the clearance of that particular hormone.
What are the implications on that for other neurotransmitters and things like dopamine,
for example?
I think that has some significant implications on how women respond to it, how they utilize
it and dosing strategies.
I couldn't say definitively that I'd have to spend time with each particular patient
to identify what's going on.
For example, some women, either through nutritional deficiencies or genetic variants, don't clear
out estrogen as well.
They either have a smaller drain or what have you.
That has implications on mood.
I don't think I'm speaking out of turn here, but anybody who's in a relationship will notice
that sometimes moods change a little bit throughout cycles.
Again, that has a lot in my experience to do with how these estrogen metabolites are
either accumulating, because there's multiple different metabolites of estrogen based on
the molecular structure, what we call 2-hydroxy, 4-hydroxy and 16-hydroxy alpha estrogens.
Each one has a slightly different effect and pathway.
As those are consuming up different capacity of COMT, then that starts to shift around
the dopamine metabolism and can lead to, again, mood, anxiety, headaches, pain, cramping and
this type of thing.
I think that that's just from a standpoint of how you deal with women's health and gynecological
health, those estrogen metabolites in that pathway.
When we start taking a look at the endocannabinoid system, we see intersection there through
serotonin pathways and dopamine pathways in particular.
Furthermore, things like the menstrual cycle is regulated through prostaglandins.
Prostaglandins are, again, built out of the types of fats that we have, or omega-3, 6
and 9, saturated fats, arachidonic acid and this type of thing.
Those prostaglandins have a significant impact on the lining of the uterus of the endometrium.
They help shut off and open the small blood vessels that are involved in menses.
Again, one of the things that we work a lot with women is taking a look at your essential
fatty acid status.
I think the logical extension of that is, well, let's take a look at what happens with
the endocannabinoid system.
Certainly, we see that various different endocannabinoids like PEA and this type of thing have an impact
on uterine proliferation, endometriosis, ovarian cysts and such.
I think that's probably a ...
Yeah.
That's a good snapshot.
I'm going to describe this.
On one hand, the detail in your answer is remarkable because I swear I talk to cannabis
researchers all the time and I do not get this level of detailed answer from most anybody,
which is impressive.
Then also, at the same time, as somebody who works with patients daily, it also is kind
of frustrating because I'm like, oh my God.
The more sentences you say, Chris, the more complex the diagnosis seems to become about
what cannabinoids we're going to use to offer relief and strengthening to which part of
the human so they can even use the other cannabinoids with the ailment that we're actually targeting.
There's so many layers and it makes sense.
So many people poo-poo the idea of how much good cannabis does.
They're like, oh, people think it solves everything.
It's like, all right, it doesn't solve everything.
It solves one thing, the endocannabinoid system.
The thing is that's the body's thermostat.
It touches all of the mission critical systems in the body.
Cannabis does really well with this one system, but it's the master regulator.
So in a way, yeah, it actually does help everything.
While that makes it such a beneficial herb, at the same time, as a caregiver who's listening
to this show, I can imagine it can feel kind of, I don't know, defeating in a way where
who's got the amount of information about their patient and the time to talk with them
about all of this.
And we're going to talk more in the second set about the analytics you use.
But just speaking to the bigger idea of the complexity of this really suggests to me that
we have just scratched the surface of endocannabinoid medicine.
I think this is the, I mean, this speaks to such a larger issue, which is what is health
care and what is disease care, right?
And like I said, I mean, I'm integrative.
I mean, a lot of my naturopathic doctor friends shriek in horror when I prescribe stuff and
things like that.
And a lot of my medical doctor friends shriek in horror when I start talking about holistic
approaches and things like that.
So I look at myself as a bridge.
I try very much to be very grounded in science.
But I also recognize that, I mean, there's a role.
You have to use the right tool.
But you have to also have enough information.
And our health care system at this time struggles.
And especially up here in Canada, I've talked with many, many of my medical doctor friends.
And we have medicine where doctors are paid by the government and things like that.
But to a large extent, and again, I practice in the US, medicine is determined on this
sort of fee-for-service model, right?
Which means that, OK, well, if you see more patients, you make more revenue out of this.
And so the efforts around evidence-based medicine and to do these things are to try and create
a structured framework to do that, which is, again, it's really helpful when you're in
an emergency room and you're crashing and you're having a heart attack or you've been
in a motor vehicle accident or you've crashed or something like that as well, too.
I mean, these are things where are super important to have these things that can be acted on
quickly and rapidly and be very, very effective.
But the model starts to break down as we get more and more into these individual care.
And I think what I struggle with and what I try, and my small voice in the wilderness
here is to say like, hey, everybody, it can't just be about cannabis.
It actually needs to be about the patient.
And like I said, cannabis is an incredible tool.
It's a very helpful one.
And as we've talked in our previous conversations is that I kind of come from that as saying
like cannabis is remarkably easy to do something with because it actually works.
You can see it happening.
I mean, I try dealing with the sort of poking and prodding of some of the other herbal medicines.
And so that becomes, it's more difficult.
It's more nuanced on this as well, too.
So but what I struggle with here a little bit is that I see cannabis kind of being moved
into sort of like, well, THC and CBD, what's the dose?
What's the prescribing and all the rest of that?
We move into what I call sort of, and I'm not the only one, I certainly didn't coin
this term, but green allopathy, which is, well, let's just find a green alternative
for the medication.
So we'll use willow bark or curcumin for aspirin.
There's an anti-inflammatory or you choose whatever one sort of goes there.
And again, I think trying to bring this patient-centered focus back into it.
And I think that's what sort of drew me to the endocannabinoids and cannabis system was
we started to see patients responding quickly and being able to work fairly on their own
to be able to sort of manage their own healthcare through accessing cannabis.
And now it's sort of like my job that I kind of look at is, well, let's bring in some of
these other stuff that's been...
What I'm talking about here isn't new within sort of the integrative medicine naturopathic
community.
It's just nobody has ever overlaid it on the endocannabinoid system in this particular
way.
And so it's just, like I said, my role as a bridge is to try and sort of bring that
up.
But again, for patients in and of itself, I think most people have a good sense of how
do I optimize nutrition?
I think if we sat down and said, okay, what's a healthy diet look like?
Most people could tell us.
And so I would say like, well, just recognize how important that is.
And not only just in using that in cannabis, but again, also trying to make your cannabis
work better for you.
And again, as clinicians and people, do we want to keep someone on a medication forever,
whether it be cannabis or a pharmaceutical or a herbal medicine?
Or do we want to try and build the capacity where patients can take control of their health?
And things, okay, I'm out there exercising, I'm getting blood pumping, I'm doing my exercise
routine, I'm eating healthy, I've got my diet cleared up as well, too.
And does that start to say I use my cannabis to kind of help me get to a certain space,
and now I can use it either less frequently or at certain situations because I have the
resiliency because I built on these other aspects.
So another thing that you mentioned that I found very engaging is this phrase that I'm
going to start using all the time of medicine by average.
And I know that there are doctors and caregivers who are listening who run into this every
day.
Because first off, just because we work with cannabis, at least up until normalization
has begun, the vast majority of patients that we come in contact with, they are already
not the average.
They are the fringe.
Because by the time that people get to cannabis medicine, they've usually already tried everything
else.
The idea of everybody's parents and grandparents now using topicals and edibles for their aches
and pains, this is really something that has just come into acceptance again more recently
as there are more recreational stores around.
But in the transition years that we're in, and certainly in the heritage market, by the
time people got to cannabis, western medicine had already given up on them.
And so by its very nature of the prohibition years, everyone we got was generally not average.
They were on the fringe because regular medicine didn't work for them.
So then we've got that set of patients, but then also we've got all these new patients
which since cannabis medicine can help just about everybody, there's all these people
who are served by western medicine who are now also being served by cannabino-pathic
care.
And I find it both informative and troubling that the medicine by average really is to
the advantage of the health industry and the patient care industry and not the healthcare
industry as you made that delineation earlier about medicine for health versus medicine
to keep you alive to sell you more medicine.
This idea of medicine by average is so frustrating to so many caregivers.
I'm not expecting you to have an answer for it because it's a difficult paradoxical thing,
but what kind of advice would you give to caregivers who are dealing with this trying
to provide individualized medicine in a system that does medicine by average?
Yeah, I mean, and again, I'm so steeped in it.
I had this conversation with a patient the other day and they're like, oh my God, this
is so frustrating.
And it's like, well, this is just the ocean that we kind of swim in as naturopathic physicians.
It's something that is why people come and seek us out.
I think that this is the amazing about podcasts like this in the world that we live in now
is that people are starting to learn more.
I think about my own experience in figuring out cannabis and the people that I've worked
with and just the giants that I've had the opportunity to learn from.
But my own learning was accelerated that way.
But I think at the end of the day, being your own advocate and starting to say like, hey,
wait a second, I have some questions about this and about that, that's key.
That's the most important part of it.
And I think the hardest part is, yeah, how do you find a clinician that works, that's
saying like, well, that's really interesting.
And I certainly can't answer you.
I'm always surprised that some of the doctors that are super open to this and some of that
aren't.
I just had a super interesting conversation with a rheumatologist down your way in Seattle
doing really cool stuff with a heart rate variability and autoimmune illnesses.
We were coming at this from two different ways, but the intersection was remarkable.
And I'm like, okay, I've met some rheumatologists and they're pretty conservative.
And so suddenly to have them move outside of this is really exciting.
So again, I couldn't tell you how, but I think most doctors are seeking that relationship.
I think the epidemic of physician burnout that we have has a lot to do with the loss
of the doctor-patient relationship.
You know, doctors are seeing that as much as anyone else.
And so, you know, I mean, you're going to have to sort through a bunch of different
physicians perhaps until you find one that has that.
But I do sympathize with a lot of those doctors.
And certainly, you know, the ones that I know socially versus I know professionally,
sometimes there's a bit of a incongruity between the people I know them to be and how they're
working in their space and they're all humans.
And so I try and approach that with some compassion and sympathy of how they're doing and go from
there.
So again, I don't know if I necessarily have an answer.
I'm going to say to be the advocate, you know, understand your patient, your doctor is probably
struggling in a lot of different ways around that and reach out and try and engage in conversation.
And you'll find some that do and some that don't, which is maybe horribly naive, but
that's what I'll put out there.
Right on.
Thank you, Chris.
So we're going to take a short break and be right back.
And make sure you do come back because after the break, we are going to be talking about
some of the analytics that are available to take a good snapshot of your body or your
patient's body so that you can start to thread the needle of individualized cannabis medicine.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is naturopathic physician, Chris Spooner.
As cannabis regulations become more demanding and consumers become more educated, it is
increasingly important to avoid the use of chemical pesticides when cultivating cannabis.
Beneficial insects have been used for decades by the greenhouse vegetable and ornamental
plant industry, and today many cannabis cultivators are moving from sprays and chemicals to beneficial
insects.
Copert Biological Systems has the beneficial insects, mites and nematodes, microbials,
sticky cards and air distribution units you need to partner with nature to defend your
garden.
Whether you manage acres of canopy or have a simple grow tent in your home, Copert is
ready to help answer your questions and help you transition away from chemical sprays towards
clean and natural solutions.
Since 1967, Copert has assisted growers in identifying pests and devising reliable solutions
while providing healthy insects and mites that will protect your yield.
Since the 1990s, Copert has been a leader in cannabis pest and disease control worldwide
and have highly trained consultants to assist you in Canada and the U.S. from coast to coast.
No matter where you live, Copert Biological Systems can help.
Visit copert.com, choose your country and get detailed information.
That's copert, K-O-P-P-E-R-T dot com.
For the most up-to-date cannabis-related biological control information, you can also check out
their Instagram, at Copert Canada.
You know getting away from pesticides is good for health and good for business, and Copert
is ready to help.
Visit copert.com today.
If you are an autoflowering cannabis enthusiast, this event is for you.
Announcing the 2021 Autoflower Cup, August 6th, 7th and 8th in Lilloop, Washington, just
outside of Seattle.
Presented by Camp Ruderales, this gathering has something for everyone.
There's the Autoflower Cup competition, of course, but it's so much more than that.
There'll be a Stunden Glass Hookah Lounge, a pop-up Magical Butter Chocolate Shop, and
Waterfront Marketplace with an array of vendors.
There will be an old-school autoflower seed swap, joint-rolling competition, cannabis
cooking demos, solventless squishing demos, and late-night documentary screenings of both
Dosed and Fantastic Fungi.
The food will be lit, too, including Chef Sebastian Carosi's award-winning classics
like Elk Chili, Kobe Beef Kimchi Dogs, Oyster Po' Boys, and Razor Clam Chowder.
Enjoy the Campfire Chili and Oyster Chowder Cook-Off, wild oyster harvesting, mushroom
foraging, and s'mores around the campfires each night.
Each day there, Dan Jimmy of Mandalorian will teach about autoflowers, and there will be
presentations on closet cultivation and hunting for psilocybin mushrooms.
The competition is open to everyone, commercial and home growers.
There is a category for photo-period plants, too, so check out theautoflowercup2021.com
for those details.
Clearly, there will be plenty of cannabis around, but due to state law, it won't be
supplied by the event, but there will be easy public toking, which is why this is a
strictly over-21 event.
You can camp, rent a cabin, or stay at a local Airbnb.
Glamping and RV packages are available, too.
I'm happy to say that Shaping Fire is a sponsor of the event, and I'll be there,
too.
I look forward to connecting with other autoflower fans like me.
So get all the details at theautoflowercup2021.com and follow the Instagram at theautoflowercup2021.
And I'll see you in August at Autoflower Cup when we bring the autoflower family together
to celebrate.
While I love growing under the sun, there's a lot of good reasons to grow indoors.
And if you're like most folks, you want a lighting source that grows high-yielding,
healthy plants without using excessive amounts of electricity.
Bios lighting creates biological lighting solutions that bring the natural brilliance
of the outdoors into your grow room.
Bios lighting has the attributes that I look for in a horticultural lighting solution.
I've bought those cheap lights online, and they're difficult to work with and fail
in no time.
In contrast, my Bios LED light is industrial-grade to last a long time.
It is IP66 wet-rated, so a little foliar overspray won't harm it.
It is easy to clean without taking it down, and of course, the most important aspect,
it is built for the exact light spectrum I want for great-yielding, healthy cannabis
plants.
And it doesn't hurt that their lighting rigs look badass, too.
Many horticultural LED lighting systems are based on irrelevant performance metrics, and
people love to argue online about these numbers.
I prefer to judge on par photon efficiency and how happy my plants are, and the Bios
lights exceed my expectations in these categories.
Bios lights have an optimized broad spectrum that maximizes photosynthesis and plant growth,
while also providing the ideal conditions for superior PAR efficacy and a comfortable
visual experience.
I also love their attentive and over-educated customer service folks.
Bios starts with a team of biologists before getting the electrical engineers involved.
They have studied how light impacts cannabis plants and devised an overall strategy that
works.
I encourage you to check out their website at bioslighting.com to learn more about how
this strategy can work for you.
And Shaping Fire listeners can get a special deal.
Use the discount code SHAPINGFIRE, all one word, no caps, for 10% off your entire purchase.
That's bioslighting.com.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose.
Our guest this week is naturopathic physician, Chris Spooner.
So during the first set, we focused on the different variables that can significantly
impact the patient's use of cannabinoids.
And during the second set, we're going to try to figure out how we suss out which of
these variables we need to be able to pay the most attention to when either doing a
self-assessment as a patient who is trying to self-heal or as a doctor or caregiver who
is working with a patient and you want to give them the best individualized medicine
as possible.
So, Chris, I guess take us from the top.
You've got a new patient and you've got their questionnaire in front of you.
From our prior talks, I know that there is, I'll call it a battery of tests.
I don't know if it's that many, but there are some tests that you rely on to give you
your basic information.
We've all had blood tests, so why don't we start there, something that people have got
a frame of reference with, and then continue on through the other analytics that you give
your patients.
Yeah, sure.
Again, obviously this is going to fluctuate a little bit, so I'll give that caveat before
we get started here.
Certainly, I may segue into one or two of those if we need to.
I think when we're starting off, there's a number of things to factor here.
First of all, what type of testing does a clinician or a patient have access to?
I think probably what I try and do is start off with the very basics, basic blood work,
blood chemistry, CBC, complete blood counts, liver function tests, thyroid, these sort
of standard things that you can get from any of your medical doctors or naturopathic physicians.
These are pretty straightforward.
That's a nice, easy one to do.
It's relatively inexpensive, so I think this is a good place to start.
Generally, what I do is I break this down, and if we're starting with the model or the
framework that I suggested about taking a look at optimizing nutrition here a little
bit, there's a couple of markers that you can take a look at within a basic blood work
that can give you a general sense of things.
For example, we could start off with, is someone anemic or not?
A lot of patients may come in with fatigue and exhaustion.
Fatigue's a pretty broad-based indicator, but we can see.
What's your iron status looking like?
Sometimes you just need to make sure that you're checking off some of the basics, because
sometimes there's a tendency to rush off into more exotic.
The analysis is when we hear hooves, think of horses, not zebras.
The qualifier is unless you're in Africa, so there's some contextual component to that
as well, too.
Certainly, just taking a look at what your red blood cell counts, hematocrit, hemoglobin
is, and just making sure you're not running anemic.
Within that, one of the ones that I like to pay attention to is a fairly ... It's a decent
indicator of things like vitamin B12 and folic acid status, is what's called the MCV.
It's the mean corpuscular volume.
This is basically the size of your red blood cells.
Usually, the old term for it was a pernicious anemia, which then we'd give people B12 shots
to try and bring it around a little bit if this MCV was a little bit elevated.
Up here in Canada, I think we're using the same unit.
Some of these will vary a little bit, but usually it's above 97.
I forget what the number is.
You just forget the units.
That usually suggests that these blood cells are a little bit bigger.
The reason that this one's important from an endocannabinoid status is if we go back
to this COM-T pathway that I was speaking to a little bit earlier, the B vitamins, particularly
folic acid, B12, B6, and that are involved in this thing called a methylation pathway.
This methylation pathway is one of these things that creates a compound that supports COM-T,
S-adenosylmethionine in particular is what it is.
But your folic acid and your B12 have this little methyl group, this little carbon with
three hydrogens added to it, so you get these methylated B vitamins.
For people that are in the know about nutritional supplementation, most people tend to use methylated
forms of folic acid and B12 because they're active and we know that these genetic variants
aren't there.
But certainly if we see the MCV starting to be up there a little bit, it starts to become
something like, well, maybe we need to take a look at the B12 status or take a look at
supplementing someone with that.
The other part of this is that pernicious anemia often had something to do with gastric
inflammation.
If B12 is absorbed, there's a cofactor for it in the lining of the gut that helps get
it absorbed.
So if there's irritation to the lining of the stomach, certainly that can compromise
absorption as well too.
So things like acid blocker medications can have impacts on that.
So that's a nice place to start.
It's nice and easy.
So if you're seeing that MCV being a little bit elevated, well, maybe we need to take
a look at the absorption of B12 and its various parameters of that.
As we start working down a little bit more, a couple of the other markers that I start
to take a look in there, I like to take a look at the white blood cell counts.
This speaks to a larger element that we need to have a quick conversation about, which
is about what are reference ranges?
Because this very much speaks to our last thing of medicine by average.
So I think people need to understand that reference ranges, so when you get a lab test
that gives you the number, like for example, MCV is 91, and with it you're given a reference
range that is 88 through 97.
And you look at that and you're like, oh, well, that must mean that I'm healthy within
this space.
Well, you could be or you couldn't, but you need to understand that that reference range
refers to a population norm.
So basically what you're looking at is 95% of the tests fall within value A and value
B, of which there's an upper and lower range.
And so that really speaks to this medicine by average.
And I've always been like, well, if you're one of these people that tends to be up at
the upper end of a value and you drop 10 points, do you feel as bad as a person who's at the
lower end of a value and drops 10 points?
One of those falls within the reference range and one of them doesn't.
And so that's where this individualized medicine goes, where you need to kind of start to ask
some patients some questions about this.
And thyroid testing is notorious for this, right?
You can see some patients, they just have a range that they feel much better in that
sometimes is inside the reference range and sometimes outside of that.
You know, hold on, before you continue on, another thing that you just said about the
reference range that just surprised me, unless I misunderstood, you said that the reference
range comes from the averages of the tests that are taking place.
Well, that means that if a population is getting increasingly unhealthy, that the reference
range will change as well.
Say for example, in my country, you know, obesity is a scourge here.
So our reference ranges that are attached to obesity would be theoretically moving in
the wrong directions.
But then also, since it's happening to so many people, our reference range is actually
drifting with the population's lack of health.
Yeah, potentially.
You know, and I think, you know, and for some of these tests, you know, there's a long history
of what we know, like, you know, blood lipids and things like that.
You know, that it's like, okay, well, we know that these issues, you know, I mean,
there's a fairly long history of what this looks like.
So I think they're a little bit more resistant to that trending in that respect.
So yeah, I don't disagree with you.
And I think for like, for example, again, let's go back to thyroid a little bit, you
know, because again, there's a lot of interpretation on that.
There's other factors that start to come into this, you know, thyroid, it's interesting
up here in Canada, you know, depending on the lab, the upper limit of that is 5.5.
And I believe that if you cross the border down into Washington State there, I believe
the American College for Endocrinology has kind of set it as like under 2.5.
So there's a significant difference on where you're classified as, you know, hypothyroid
or thyroid.
And it may not necessarily be the test so much as what the impact is on your clinician's
mindset as to whether this is an issue or not.
So someone that's looking at a reference range of up to five, you know, I would say like,
whoa, okay, your thyroid, your TSH level sitting at 4.5, that's a problem.
Whereas a physician may not, you know, who's used to seeing it at five, whereas someone
who is trained, you know, or in a different jurisdiction where it's slightly different
may look at that and be like, oh yeah, no, I agree, you know, that, you know, you need
to be under 2.5.
So I think you've got two things there.
One is certainly the issue that you're speaking to, but the other one is also the clinician's
mindset and how they start to prioritize what to look like, which I think it's probably
a little bit more, I don't know if insidious is the word, but that's the one that comes
to mind right now.
So so so far we've been talking about the blood test because that's something that we're
all kind of familiar with.
We've all seen our ranges and we could probably do an entire show just talking about a blood
test and how to go through each aspect of it and how it could impact the endocannabinoid
system and maybe we'll do that.
But for today, let's let's move on because I think that I think that both patients and
caregivers have gotten a good taste of of what there could be to unearth in a blood
test.
I mean, I know that I'm going to go back and look at my recent blood work with whole new
eyes now, but let's move on to the next one.
So so what other analytics do you do look at to help get that snapshot so that you know
diagnose and give protocol to a patient?
Sure.
Yeah.
So I think the next one is that's the biggest one that's in we touched on this is healthy
hormones, right?
So what what what and I tend to use a lot of questionnaires around this.
And again, we can probably go quite some time on this.
But certainly, like I said, I think when I'm taking a look at this where I've been spending
a lot of time with patients, I don't know whether it's just the patient population that's
coming in right at this moment, but but certainly, obviously, the world that we live in now stress
levels are through the roof with people, right, you know, and so super key indicators, you
know, that I think really impact endocannabinoid function are things like, you know, that that
stress hormone, cortisol, epinephrine, norepinephrine, you know, dopamine type parts of that.
And so that leads me down sort of taking a good hard look at at where the stress hormones
comes in and questionnaires are usually, you know, the most straightforward way.
I mean, when I start taking a look at adrenal stress, you know, and sort of these elevated
cortisol, you know, adrenaline, noradrenaline pathways, you know, sleep's always a big indicator,
you know, I really I try and get patients to tell me, okay, a little bit, what's your
sleep looking like?
You know, and if people are coming in, because again, there's different ways that people
don't sleep well.
And certainly, I think, you know, if I take a look at where a vast majority of my patients
are using, you know, cannabinoid therapies, it's certainly in the area of sleep.
Right?
So but I think that for some patients that works and for some patients that doesn't.
And again, that goes into sort of that regulatory effect of, you know, do you are you sort of
winding someone down by having more GABA in their system?
You know, or, you know, are they starting to be stressed out?
And is this cortisol?
So where there's that interplay between the stress response and these neurotransmitters?
So what's this question?
You know, so sleep.
So I asked patients, for example, if I'm trying to root out, okay, is there a stress response?
And this is usually something like cortisol is a big one, right?
You can get a good indicator about, okay, first of all, are you difficult having difficulty
falling asleep at night?
And what does that look like?
So a patient, for example, that, you know, they need to get to bed by a certain timeframe,
if they're not in bed and asleep between nine and 10, you know, suddenly, they get a second
when and they're up and about, again, you know, that's almost always a pretty good
indicator that they're getting a little bit of a second cortisol spike, which is unusual,
your cortisol should be sort of winding down towards the end of the day, you know, it peaks
in the morning, and then it tapers off throughout the day.
But if it starts to come up a little bit at the end of the day, you're going to see this
the sleep issue, you know, and so that becomes something that will will probably impact your
response to cannabinoids.
You may find that the cannabinoids knock you out, and certainly depending on the form that
you're using, right, you know, I mean, and I'm sure you've had this conversation many
times, you know, orally, you know, cannabinoids take longer to set in, but you get that six
day window effect, and you get a little bit more of those psychoactive compounds because
of that sort of first pass liver function there a little bit as well, too.
So you know, but if some people are vaping or something like that, you know, they may
not are using new different forms of it that have a little bit more rapid onset that might
clear out a little bit more quickly.
So you know, patient that's vaping, I usually recommend vaping as opposed to smoking just
because of my environmental medicine background and smoking is not something that I try to
I try to discourage as much as possible.
I you know, an hour and a half, two hours in suddenly they'll be up again.
So you really need to take a look at that cortisol response.
And again, there's different ways you can deal with that, you know, whether that's meditation,
winding down, taking a look at your use of electronics beforehand, what does your stress
sleep hydrate gene look like, you know, there's some herbs that I use that are quite helpful
and they're that kind of synergize nicely with cannabinoids there as well, too.
So that's, there's, that's a that's a really interesting point about the the lights in
the evenings and that second potential cortisol spike because, you know, clearly I talk with
patients about, you know, sleeping and cannabis all the time.
And the number one thing that comes up with people is I ask them, do you drink coffee?
Right.
Because because people like, oh, I've got such insomnia, but like, I know that coffee's
got a half life of 14 hours.
And so that means that by the time they're drinking their coffee tomorrow, they still
have this morning's coffee still in them.
And so I encourage them to, you know, cut down on or get rid of the coffee or caffeine
and you know, their their insomnia will probably go away.
And, you know, after they look at me with utter shock, you know, they're all like, listen,
I'd rather keep the caffeine and just use more THC to sleep.
Right.
I mean, that's that's not uncommon.
But this idea of the blue lights and using electronics at night, of which I am absolutely
guilty of, it's an interesting idea that if poor sleep is decreasing our cannabinoid uptake
and effectiveness and poor sleep comes from using my phone in bed at night and getting
a second wind and hanging out for two hours on bed reading stuff, what does you know,
if we backtrack that all the way back, my using my devices at night is hurting my endocannabinoid
system.
And that is not something I think is immediately apparent to most folks.
It certainly wasn't to me until now.
Yeah, and certainly, you know, again, if we you think about it in the context of a thermostat,
right, you know, I mean, you know, my thermostat goes and tries to heat the house, but I've
got the windows and doors open.
Well, that's going to be a good example.
Yeah, right.
There's there's only there's only so much capacity that you can.
And I think that, you know, I mean, this touches on some of the genetics that we talked about.
It talks about sort of the nutritional capacity.
It talks about the hormonal environment, you know, so, you know, all those things.
So again, you know, it's sort of like, okay, how do I optimize the system?
And you know, and this is the interesting thing, right?
Is I think, I think that the thing that's become most apparent to me here is, is that
your body, it seems to me, and there's probably people that are much smarter than me that
could expect, you know, that could explain this, or maybe poke holes in this argument.
So please feel free to, I'd love to learn about this.
But, but what I find is, is, for example, like, let's take a look at the stress response
and talk about inflammation.
And what I want to use this example to demonstrate is it isn't turn one on, turn one off, it's
turn both on and then turn one off.
So what ends up happening is you get a faster response if you have this sort of, you know,
the driver and the inhibitor going at the same time.
So there's a tension created in the system, right?
And what happens is, is that, so for example, when we take a look at cortisol response,
cortisol is a immunosuppressant, right?
It's an anti-inflammatory.
Anybody that's taken prednisone or, you know, will, will appreciate that.
So it's a very powerful anti-inflammatory.
At the same time, cortitrophic releasing hormone, which is the hormone that stimulates the response
of that, also has an impact on vagal nerve tone, which drives a pro-inflammatory response.
So you've got the same mechanism, like different branches of the cortisol being anti-inflammatory,
but then pro-inflammatory at the same time.
And if you think about this, like, okay, well, I'm going to run away from, I'll use a distinctly
Canadian response, you know, the grizzly bear.
You don't want to wait for your system to come online if they've, you know, given you
a club or two and you're running away like crazy.
So you want your system to come online.
So basically as your stress response drops, suddenly it unleashes the anti-inflammatory
effect, you know, on your nervous system, which is wired to get you the hell out of
dodge, you know, suddenly shuts down and calms down.
Now the other one can basically cascade in on it.
So I think the endocannabinoid system probably has that same type of tension in there.
And then you've got all these other modifiers around it as well, too.
And when we talk about the lack of sleep or the dietary issues on top of that, suddenly
you're taking away, you're limiting the resiliency of it.
You're kind of sort of cornering it in a little bit so that you limit that response a bit
that way.
Wow.
All right.
So, so, so far we have talked about the analytics that are helpful that come from blood tests
and hormone tests.
And you've alluded a couple of times to genetic screens and especially the 23andMe.
And again, you already mentioned this, but we're going to set aside the concerns that
many people have about whether or not there are identifying aspects of their health that
are going into these large data sets and, and, and whether or not people want to participate.
We're just going to set that aside for this conversation.
Because again, that's a whole nother show.
What we're going to focus on though, is the usefulness of this kind of a test for the
patient.
So, so what, what do these, this, these variety of tests show us that are worth noting?
Sure.
Yeah.
So again, you know, you can break this out into the endocannabinoid genetics, you know,
and then the nutritional stuff, you know, and, and sort of hormone metabolism, things
like that.
And so where I start to take a look at here is, you know, some of the things you can start
to see as, you know, the cannabinoid receptor and, and, you know, dopamine receptors and
such, you know, you see, you see some genetic variants where, you know, these receptors
are more responsive or less responsive and that starts to set up, you know, are some
patients more likely to, to, you know, become a little bit more hooked on, you know, habitual
cannabis use, you know, they get the reward seeking response from that a little bit and
they tend to go down that pathway.
So certainly that's something to be aware of, you know, when you're taking a look and
that what you're going to provide from a formulation standpoint, you know, so there's, there's
that aspect of it, you know, we can also start to dig into, you know, some of these enzymes
that, you know, drive the different aspects of the cannabinoid system, right?
So you can take a look at, you know, a FAA, you know, fatty acid, amide, hydrolase, you
know, MAGL, another one as well to degrade that.
And, you know, those enzymes kind of give a sense of how quickly, you know, these endocannabinoids
hang around inside your, your, your synapse, the gap between your nerves on that as well
too.
So again, it just gives you a sense of what's the, the resiliency of that system.
So you can start to build out some sense of, of that, you know, certainly where I start
to take a look at it as things like, you know, because most patients come in here and
again, I think your, your comment a bit earlier on about how we tend to have a patient population
that have exhausted other options.
We tend to have a little bit more of the canaries in the coal mine.
So certainly I tend to see some of the stuff that I also saw in my multiply chemically
sensitive patients, which is that, you know, which is very similar population in some respects
is that they have genetic variants and things like their ability to clear out these enzymes.
For example, if we are these compounds, like let's talk about your caffeine example that
you use.
Some people genetically don't clear out caffeine while some do just fine, you know, and so,
you know, these are, you know, and again, I suspect that the people that are a little
bit more sensitive to caffeine, you know, are, are again, sort of these people that
have some of these genetic variants about clearance of cytochrome enzymes, it's that,
and that may impact clearance of other medications and other substances.
It's, you know, again, a whole other conversation we can talk about Google's, you know, I think
it's called alpha one is their new artificial intelligence that looks at protein folding
on it.
And it came up with some really interesting stuff, which is that, you know, sort of genes
appear to organize in biochemical pathways, you know, so that, you know, they kind of
support each other.
So like, for example, I did 23andMe, and it turns out that I'm genetically pre-programmed
to have to have cod liver oil.
My Swedish and Swiss background, pretty much means that I don't do vitamin D terribly well,
my vitamin A, I don't convert it from plants terribly well, and my oils, the plant based
oils, I can't really convert them into the sort of the omega three stuff that we find
in fish oils, you know, but that that group of them, I've seen that repeatedly in patient
populations that, you know, people of Northern European descent and things like that, and
some of the First Nations populations, you know, seem to have these things where their
vitamin D and their essential fatty acids and fat soluble vitamins seem to be tied together.
And, you know, we see this other different elements as well, too.
So that's, that's a really cool element of it.
And then we go down the pathway of things like again, depending on what our patients
are looking at.
So, you know, anxiety, stress, mood, depression, you know, chronic pain, I really start taking
a look at a lot of the tryptophan stuff around this as well, too.
There's some really interesting aspects, because that ties in both of the B vitamins that we
talked a little bit earlier about folic acid, B12 and B6 support, and then also the ability
to convert, you know, the amino acid tryptophan into 5-hydroxy tryptophan.
And so there's some genetic variation on that, too.
So these are the types of things that, you know, as you start to take a look, they show
up in different platforms have different elements of it, I just use the 23andMe raw data and
load that into a multiple of different, you know, genomic platforms to start to identify
those and, you know, several of them that I use.
I'm working on one right now with another company to try and make a little bit more
specific sort of functional cannabinoid medicine platform.
And so hopefully we'll have that out in the next year.
That's going to be popular.
I hope so.
Yeah, I think it'd be interesting.
I mean, the challenge is trying to simplify this stuff down because, you know, again,
it's I realize I'm probably just, you know, people are kind of getting a firehose effect
right now and giving little snippets of it as well.
But but hopefully we can make it much more practical and patient friendly.
And that idea of being overwhelmed by the details like that's not lost on me, you know,
like you're right, we are kind of moving around and there's a lot of vocabulary in this episode.
But it's also true to life, right?
I mean, like this is what it's like to be a patient.
Anybody who is still with us on the episode, you know, you know, people have got to decide
that they're going to care enough to learn the vocabulary if they are going to become
captains of their own health.
We cannot have optimum health, let alone individualized cannabis medicine in a Western health care
system that is designed more to keep us on pharmaceuticals than it is to heal us and
move us on our way.
And so, you know, while while at certain times the vocabulary that you've used even, you
know, washed me in new ideas, like, oh, I've got I've got a long list of things that I'm
going to Google when we're done here.
But that's what it's like to be a patient that that is what it's like.
And so I think that cannabis patients probably more than most are used to this because we
have already talked about how cannabis patients are generally outliers because the rest of
the medical system has given up on them.
And then they've so they've had to take their research into their own hands.
And so those are probably the people that this episode is is most targeted for because
what we're giving, I mean, like, you know, from helping enough of my friends, like I've
got rheumatoid arthritis friends and and hypothyroid friends and all these folks, we there are
little snippets throughout the episode where people are like, oh, there's a new search
term for me that I had not considered on whatever topic.
And I think that's how self-empowered patients have to go about their medical education.
So so anyway, I agree with you.
And I think it's part of the course.
Yeah.
And I would say again, you know, I mean, this is interesting because, again, you know, when
I take a look, I mean, I've been a naturopathic doctor now for graduated in 1998.
And so, you know, I had, you know, undergraduate and naturopathic college as well with that
for five years, you know, five years of naturopathic college, four years of undergraduate, you
know, so I've kind of been steeped in this for a really long time in terms of this integrative
alternative medicine.
What we're talking about in cannabis medicine isn't new.
I mean, this is something that sort of the holistic integrative medicine.
I mean, you know, when I started off in this area, I mean, I remember going down and I
grew up in Victoria on Vancouver Island.
And I remember going down to the Chinatown and getting Chinese herbal medicines and walking
into this and it was like, it was just, you know, the smells and this, you know, you're
just like, oh my God, this is just so fascinating, you know, but, you know, there's a little
Chinese fellow, you know, giving me all these herbs, these wonderful herbs and it was just,
you know, and now we take a look and go into any, you know, sort of, you know, choices,
you know, integrative pharmacy, whatever, and you see what the evolutions look like.
And cannabis has the potential and just following that same course, but just at a very magnified
effect simply because the population behind that, that's driving it is, I think it was
just pent up demand and suddenly it released.
And so now it's moving.
But I mean, what you're talking about with cannabis patients is exactly what I find in
my patient population as non-cannabis.
They're all very engaged.
They're doing the research.
I have these conversations with them.
I mean, I never underestimate the capacity of my patients, you know, to understand the
concepts that I'm giving them.
If they're not getting it, it's because I'm not doing a good enough job explaining it,
right?
You know, so I need to come back around and find out that language that's going there.
And so I know that we've slipped into some jargon around that, but, you know, again,
certainly, you know, we can, you can sort of dial that back in a lot of different ways,
but it's patients being empowered.
It's patients starting to look into this thing, look, you know, I don't, I don't, the current
model is not serving us well.
The symptom oriented thing where just dealing with a symptom is kind of the equivalent of,
you know, pulling the batteries out of my smoke alarm while there's toast burning in
my toaster, right?
You know, it gets rid of the irritation on it, but there's still this underlying issue
that's kind of happening here a little bit that needs to be addressed.
And I think that's what patients are just struggling to find.
And I, again, I don't, there's just a medical system that, that they're trained to look
at that.
And it's like, okay, well I need to, to, you know, I always joke with my patients a little
bit.
It's like, your doctor is concerned with you not dying.
They don't really care about how you feel about it.
Right.
And, and I don't mean that to be overly critical.
I mean, it's like, look, they've got more pressing things.
Let's make sure you're not dead.
The fact that you've got a little bit of body aches and pains because you're taking your
stat and they're like, well, this is what it is.
At least you're not going to die of a heart attack.
Right.
So the intention behind that is, is caring and genuine and all the rest of that.
It's just that, you know, what are they going to do about it?
Like what's the tool that they're going to have?
I mean, the option for them is to put them on the medication, switch it around a little
bit or stop it.
You know, but again, all of us, I mean, even in this conversation, I mean, there's a deluge.
I mean, this has been 20 years of experience that I've got locked up into my brain.
I think that it would be unfair to expect someone else to try and have that same type
of experience and be able to bring that to bear, you know, and so you do what you do.
And just like, I don't know, I mean, you could, there's a billion different topics you could
bring up that I'm like, I don't know a whole hell of a lot about that one.
I'm going to need to go do some work on that and talk to some people.
So I think at the end of the day, you build a healthcare team of people.
You become your best advocate.
You know, you do your homework on this.
You, you'd be inquisitive and curious and you know, you persist.
Here on Vashon where, where I live, Ashland Island about, I don't know, gosh, has it been
six years now?
We formed a patient and cannabis enthusiast community social group here called Vimya.
And you know, we, we continually use this term scrappy street medicine because so many
of the people who have come to endocannabinoid pathic medicine because they were fringe and
black swans and outside of the medicine by average, they have had to self teach.
And certainly before Google, it was, you know, nearly impossible to do this kind of research,
but it's becoming easier and easier.
We all have kind of embraced this idea that we work together to bring our pre-existing
scrappy street medicine out of the bro science and into an understanding that you're talking
about of integrative medicine that's been around for a while, but also has had the difficulty
of not being incredibly popular or accessible to most people and, and is not taught in regular
school.
Right.
And so, you know, even though to you, you know, you've been studying this for over 20
years, for most of us, you know, just simple stuff like including environmental medicine,
what, what in your house is off gassing something can be mind blowing because a lot of people
are taught that, you know, all the, all the industrial manufacturing is fine, you know?
And so, and so that's, that's how I, you know, that's how a lot of the, a lot of folks come
up right as, as, you know, scrappy street medicine folks who then get access to professionals
like you who are now more accessible to us in cannabis because you know, you're not shamed
and it's not as taboo to come on and on a podcast like this.
And we get to hear some, you know, hints and best practices from somebody who's, who's
inside the specialty.
So before, before we wrap up and go to our next commercial break, Chris, were there any
other tests that you wanted to make sure that you pointed out for caregivers or, or patients
that they'll want to take a look at for clues?
We've, you've mentioned the blood tests, hormone tests and the genetic screen so far.
Sure.
I think probably the last ones would be that what kind of touched on was the, the fats
part of it, right?
You know, I mean, there's, there's some questionnaires that I use, you know, things like, you know,
do you have dry skin, you know you know, what's, what's inflammation, you know, there's some
different conditions that you can use to get a sense of you know, with the, with the fatty
acid statuses.
I mean, and for the most part, if you've got dry, scaly skin, that's always dry.
You probably are pretty much deficient in fats.
So there you go.
You know, you might take a look at things like vitamin D status.
That's an easy test to run, you know, has significant impacts, especially for, for those
of us, you know, up near the border and above the border here, you know, above the wall,
so to speak.
Yeah.
You know so, so those are important things that I think are, are elements of it.
There's, there's one last blood work test that I, that I like is one called GGT.
It's a, it's a liver enzyme.
It's usually used to test for alcohol.
Most doctors will look at if it's elevated and say you need to stop drinking.
And but what it is actually is it's a really, it's a decent marker for something called
glutathione, which is a super important antioxidant.
It's built out of an amino acid called N-acetylcysteine that actually is showing some real promise
in things like helping with addiction and, and, you know, neurotransmitters, certain
neuroplasticity, brain health, Parkinson's, you know, antioxidant status, you know, this
type of thing.
And I think that's, that's one that I tend to check a lot and, you know, and I take a
look at those numbers and it's one of those ones that even though the upper level of it
is, is fairly high, there's been some interesting papers published that showed it's actually
based on insurance actuarial tables that show that, you know, suboptimal levels occur at
much lower levels within the normal range of that as well too.
So that's a big one that I like to take a look at as well too.
Awesome.
Thank you.
So we're going to go ahead and take that second short break and be right back.
After the break, we are going to go into talking about whole foods, your diet, and how you
can support your endocannabinoid system through your food choices.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is naturopathic physician, Chris Spooner.
One of the reasons why no-till cannabis growing is so valued by farmers is because the mycelium
networks in the soil remain established from year to year.
And we know these fungal networks are essential because they are the nutrient superhighways
that extend far and wide in the substrate to feed your plants.
The trouble with growing in new living soils or blended cocoa substrates is that it takes
most of the plant's life just to create these mycelium highways.
Dinomyco-endomycorrhizal fungi inoculant reduces that time and gets your plant eating a wider
array of nutrients faster.
And it's three times the concentration of the other popular brand in the US at 900 propagules
per gram of two fungal species selected specifically for cannabis cultivation.
Dinomyco is the result of 30 years of research and trials at the Volcani Agricultural Research
Institute in Israel.
It has also been vigorously trialed by cannabis and food growers across the US.
Dinomyco is now available at grow shops and on Amazon in the United States.
I love using Dinomyco to both speed up the growth of the mycelium networks in the soil,
but also as a biostimulant to make clone cuttings more virile.
You can see side-by-side showing the comparative growth on their Instagram at Dinomyco.
If you demand reliable growing results and appreciate the importance of an active root
zone in creating a thriving plant, I encourage you to check out Dinomyco.com and use the
store locator to find out where you can get yours.
That's D-Y-N-O-M-Y-C-O dot com.
Shaping Fire listeners can get 10% off any size of Dinomyco on Amazon or Dinomyco.com
by using the discount code shapingfire, one word, no caps.
Whether you are starting with new beds or pots, or if you want to add some zing to tired
soil, choose Dinomyco to maximize your plant's potential.
Dinomyco, endomycorrhizal, inoculant.
With the national hemp program in flux due to stringent THC testing requirements, brothers
Seth and Eric Crawford continue to release seeds to hemp farmers that will be legal,
no matter how you grow them or when you test them.
These new varieties from Oregon CBD seeds have substantial amounts of CBDV, CBGV, CBCV,
and THCV while always staying below the .3% THC limit and guaranteeing compliant crops
for farmers every time.
Also, these new varieties cannot be pollinated by your neighbor's uncontrolled pollen or
a rogue male in your own crop either.
Oregon CBD seeds are non-GMO certified too.
Oregon CBD seeds was founded and funded in 2015 by Seth and Eric maxing out their personal
credit cards without outside investment.
They continued to refuse outside investment that would change their company culture.
Oregon CBD grows tons of fresh food on their research farms for local food banks.
They also give away tens of thousands of pounds of R&D flour to patients.
As their company began to succeed, Seth and Eric started donating money to the Cannabis
Medicine and Hemp Fiber Cause too by giving millions of dollars to Oregon State University
in order to establish the world's leading cannabis genomics research program.
And they treat their employees right.
Oregon CBD pays for full health and dental coverage for their employees, a 401k program,
and their minimum starting wage is $20 an hour.
Plus everyone shares food from the farms.
Seth has been on Shaping Fire a few times to talk about novel cannabinoids.
You can check out episodes 25 and 37 on CBD cultivars and the hemp market, episode 66
on triploid cannabis genetics, and the very first Shaping Fire Live episode 47 with Seth
and soil expert Jeff Lowenfels talking about autoflowers.
If you are a hemp farmer and you want to grow reliable seeds that are sure to thrive in
past testing, check out OregonCBDCeeds.com to learn more about buying seeds for the 2021
season.
That's OregonCBDCeeds.com.
This message is for folks who grow cannabis.
I'm talking to home growers, patients, and commercial growers too.
I'm probably talking to you.
When you plan out your next growing cycle, be sure to check out Humboldt CSI Seeds at
HumboldtCSI.com.
Caleb Inspecta and his family have lived in Humboldt County for over 100 years.
For the last 40 years, three generations of his family have cultivated extraordinary Sensamea
cannabis in Humboldt, Mendocino, and Trinity counties.
Because of his lineage and the hard-earned experience that comes from growing up smoking
and sifting large populations of cannabis plants in Northern California, the seeds you'll
cop from CSI will be winning genetics, based on long-time heavy hitters, and updated and
resifted to bring out new and exotic traits and better yields.
Go ahead and ask around.
Caleb, also known as Inspecta and Pirates of the Emerald Triangle, is a breeder's
breeder.
He reaches way back and works with significant strains, recreating them in new and interesting
ways that you'll love as a toker and a grower, as well as offering you some surprises that
will delight serious seed traders and cultivators.
Humboldt CSI goes a further step and selfs all these chemovars so you know all the seeds
will be female.
These are not experimental feminized seeds.
Humboldt CSI releases some of the best female seeds available anywhere, and it will show
in your garden.
Folks grew quite a bit of CSI Humboldt Genex last year here on Vashon Island, and everyone
was pleased.
The patients had beautiful female plants and didn't have to cull half of their garden
as males.
The folks growing for the fun of getting high grew colorful flowers with exceptional bag
appeal and great highs.
And breeders had 7 out of 7 females in a pack, which gave them a lot of phenotypic
choices.
Take a moment right now and visit humboldtcsi.com.
You'll find an up-to-date menu of both feminized and regular lines, along with photos and descriptions.
That's humboldtcsi.com.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I am your host, Shango Lowe, and our guest this week is naturopathic physician Chris
Spooner.
So, in the first two sets, we talked primarily about figuring out what might be the problem
and how best and what kinds of cannabinoids that we want to introduce into your body for
optimum benefit from your cannabinoid path of care.
And as we have sussed out that it can get really complex fast, and the context for every
single patient is slightly different.
And so, today's episode has so far has not been the same solutions for everybody.
It's essentially, here are a bunch of things to consider, and then now you have to go on
your own individualized path.
Well, set three is going to be a little different because we're going to be talking about the
foods that you can eat that generally strengthen your endocannabinoid system.
And this is especially great, especially for folks who either want to round out their cannabis
use with food that's going to support their endocannabinoid system, or folks who just
can't really afford all the cannabinoids that they need, but they do have access to clean
food.
So, we've talked in the past with Dr. Russo on an earlier episode about his seminal paper
about particular foods that strengthen the endocannabinoid system, but that has not been
updated in a long time.
And Chris, I know that you work with patients all the time, both as a naturopath, but also
in your specificity of the gut, right?
And so, you're talking about foods, about the foods that they're eating all the time.
So, why don't we start with the recommendations that you give your patient base on foods that
they should eat for endocannabinoid health?
Sure.
Yeah, I know.
I mean, it's pretty straightforward.
I mean, I think we've touched on a lot of these things.
I think you probably won't be too surprised in giving our previous conversation.
But I try, you know, patients sometimes prefer supplements.
I prefer to try and get patients to do as much as food-wise as they can to start off
with.
And so, I mean, I'd probably say, for those of you that have been listening, the first
one I'd be going with is something like cod liver oil.
I mean, most people, they're looking at it going like, well, that just sounds downright
disgusting.
But one of the things I really like about it is that it's got a couple things.
It's got vitamin A and vitamin D in it, which is fantastic.
And so, for those people that genetically aren't able to do it, it kind of bypasses
that issue.
And then you've got, cod liver oil actually has a fair amount of what's called DHA in
it, which is one of these essential fatty acids that's really helpful for brain health.
And its partner, EPA, is a bit of an anti-inflammatory.
So I find that for those patients that are coming in with inflammatory illnesses or neurological
stuff, or inflammatory conditions like fibromyalgia and this type of thing, I mean, this is a
good place to start.
Arthritis, pain, this type of thing.
So a tablespoon of cod liver oil gets you your A's and your D's, your fat-soluble
vitamins and those important essential fatty acids.
And again, we could certainly dig down deeper into the science behind why that is and whatever,
but we do see that omega-3 deficiencies definitely really impact the endocannabinoid, particularly
the neuronal functions as well, too, but also synergizes quite nicely through the anti-inflammatory
effects.
So it synergizes really nicely with things like CBD.
So that would be probably one of the first ones I'd be taking a look at there as well,
too.
The next one that I'm super fascinated by is this whole concept of the microbiome.
And so what I think that you start taking a look at here is this whole, I forget what
the paper was here, I'm just going to pull it up here real quick.
It was, yeah, endocannabinoids, the crossroad between the gut microbiota and the host metabolism.
It was actually published in Nature, I think, in 2016.
A super fascinating article about this that talks about the role of the microbiome and
actually how it impacts a lot of liver pathology.
I don't know, I suspect this isn't something that shows up on everybody's radar, but it
is in epidemic proportions here.
And we always attributed that with alcohol use.
Well, it turns out it actually has a pretty significant component of disruptions in the
gut microbiome, and that seems to be impacted by endocannabinoids, interestingly enough.
So taking a look at what's happening within that gut bacteria within the digestive tract,
I think is hugely important.
And again, I could go on and on about the trials and tribulations and the disrespect
shown to our hepatic liver system, but I won't stand up for them on that soapbox right now.
But I certainly think anything that supports the bacteria in your gut, and that would be
something like a probiotic.
If you want to go down the foods that you would be looking at, you'd be taking a look
at fermented foods, your sauerkrauts, your yogurts, these types of things that really
 they do two things.
One, they supply bacteria, and again, there's a lot of subtleties in the quality of probiotics
and that that certainly, again, we could go on long enough.
But suffice it to say, a lot of the fiber and a lot of the fermented byproducts, so
for example, in yogurt and milk products, the sugar lactose is composed of galactose
and glucose.
Well, you can get what's called a galacto-oleosaccharide, which turns out to be very helpful for the
gut microbiome, and that's produced in yogurt, along with the fermentation products and the
pH-altering effects of that galactic acid.
So I think fermented foods, if you're dairy-sensitive or things like that, you could take a look
at other different fermented foods in there, but I think that's a super important thing.
Ryan Jones And also, a lot of people who are sensitive
to dairy foods, like I am, actually are okay with the fermented ones.
So you won't see me drinking a glass of milk, but I can totally handle quality yogurt.
Kevin Kwan Absolutely, yeah, and especially if you get
a grass-fed yogurt.
And why is that?
Well, it actually dovetails with the types of fats.
Grass-fed animals have different omega-3 fatty acid profiles in their milk that are
skewed to the more beneficial ones, too.
So there's a double whammy with stuff like that.
So if you could certainly tolerate a grass-fed yogurt, great, fantastic.
Goat's yogurt is probably another one that you could look at, if you're not too averse
to goaty flavors.
But you could go from there.
So that would be something that I think are definitely things you could involve in there.
Super, super important, especially for large bacteria.
This is, again, I'm not going to go too far down this rabbit hole, but let's just suffice
it to say that your gut bacteria is not the same below the stomach as it is in the large
intestine.
It varies significantly in the types of bacteria, what they do and what they produce and what
they eat.
And the ones that we really want to emphasize, going back to that conversation about butyrate,
that's, again, adding things like oat bran and psyllium husks and things like that.
Those are the two big ones that I recommend on a regular basis.
But anything that's, you could add healthy fibers into it.
Again, some people have sensitivities around gluten and this type of thing.
So this is where, again, a gluten-free oat or something along those lines might be something
to consider there.
Rice brans can be part of that, that start to bypass that as well, too.
But getting in those fibers that the bacteria can start to work on and produce some of these
really important compounds, I think is really, really important.
And again, we could spend hours talking about that.
But I think if I were to make those three recommendations to patients, that would be
it.
As a dietary strategy overall, I tend to encourage patients to move more towards that paleo,
keto type end of things.
And this is recognizing that not all diets, there's a lot of caveats that go in this.
And certainly, I'm not of the view of paleo means eat red meat and bacon and cream.
It means Mediterranean type diets, olive oils, healthy oils, fish, avocado, coconut oils,
organic safflower, sunflower oils, flax oils, those types of things, healthy nuts and seeds.
And again, I think most people would be like, yeah, it sounds like a healthy diet.
I should probably do some more of that.
So if you're really trying to improve your endocannabinoid tone, that's where I'd be
leading and that's where I send most of my patients.
And then, so let's look at the opposite, right?
You mentioned earlier the idea of having the heating on in your house, but then having
the window open.
So yeah, you might be heating your house, but all the good it's doing is just going
right out the window.
And I see that so often when I go to conventions and people are all talking about cannabis
medicine and patients.
And then we break for lunch.
And I watch these people eating the crackiest fast food and I'm like, oh, essentially they're
leaving their window open, right?
They know about health, but then they're actually putting Tinder into their body instead of
like nice long burning logs, right?
So will you speak a little bit to the harm that processed foods do to the endocannabinoid
system?
Because yeah, we want to increase the quality of the foods we are eating, but at the same
time we really should be getting rid of these other foods that are actually causing damage
to the endocannabinoid system at the same time.
Yeah, you know, and again, most people when they see a naturopathic physician, they're
pretty much being, well, he's going to take me off sugar, dairy and wheat.
So I might as well fit the stereotype and don't do that.
But no, definitely I think when you take a look at, particularly your processed foods,
you know, I mean, there's a number of different things that come into it.
I mean, and there's maybe there's a couple of reasons that might surprise people.
If anybody wants an interesting read on it, there's a book, Sugar, Salt, Fat, that talks
about sort of the fast food industry and the processed food industry.
You know, and it was essentially an investigative journalist that had heard that a lot of the
foods, you know, big companies, General Mills and Obispo and ours, that got together.
And one of them was kind of saying, like one of the individuals was being like, look, we
may be kind of moving into cigarette territory here where suddenly it's going to become apparent
that there were some real health benefits that we kind of knew about that we kind of
pushed.
And so it's a fascinating read.
But aside from the fact that something like, you know, your hydrogenated fats and your
trans fats, the problem is, is that these fats are odd lengths.
Like when you're taking a look at essential fatty acids, you know, there are, you know,
16, 18, 20, 22 carbon molecules strung together with different bands.
You know, the omega three, for example, talks about you have a bend in the fat.
If you think of it as a pipe cleaner, there's a bend at the third carbon in, you know, whereas
an omega six, it's the six carbon.
So these hydrogenated fats have these bends and these lengths that are just odd.
Your system doesn't quite know what to do with it.
So I kind of liken it to gumming up the works.
So when you're putting these fats into your body, suddenly you're getting this odd kind
of, you know, your body's like, what do I do with this?
And what do I make with it?
And so when we, you know, extend this to the thing of like, hey, omega three deficiencies
have impacts on your endocannabinoid tone because some of the important endocannabinoids
are associated with those.
Well, if you start throwing more of these fats and they start to predominate in your
system, then that starts to become problematic.
You know, sugars and things like that.
It's not so much, I mean, you know, heaven forbid, I, you know, I can be a bit of a chocoholic
myself at times as well too.
You know, so I think there's an important balance, you know, I kind of use the 80 20
rule, you know, 80% of the time I'm good.
20% of the time I enjoy stuff, you know, and you know, I like a nice, you know, something
tasty every once in a while.
So I try not to be too obsessive about it, but you know, as your health challenges mount
up that becomes less and less over time.
But I think arguably, you know, some of the larger issues that we see in the context of
health, you know, inflammation, insulin, blood glucose issues are there.
So carbohydrates start to become super important and really trying to making sure that we're
getting our, our carbohydrates to have a lot of fiber and the analogy that you use, like
a quick burning piece of newspaper in your fireplace, burning a log, you know, there's
a difference between a steel cut versus oat flour, which I equate to similar type of burn
times, you know?
So I think trying to get your carbs as unrefined as unprocessed as whole as possible is where
I would be suggesting that way as well too, to help limit those blood sugar swings and
those insulin response and thereby, you know, probably being at the base of the pyramid.
I think your 80 20, you know, it fits for so many things, but in this case, I think
that most folks are probably 80% eating questionable food and 20% eating healthy food, but really
remembering the 20% that was good.
And so, you know, most folks seem to be kind of out of touch.
It's amazing the power of a food journal to really get to the bottom of what you're eating.
Every single time in my life that I have done a food journal, I have been shocked and disappointed
in myself for what I'm actually eating in real life versus what I think I'm eating.
Yeah.
And that's something I do with patients all the time.
I give them minimum of a two week diet diary with all of my patients and it's not so much,
you know, and I can do all sorts of different things.
I do like interventional pain management.
I can stick needles in people's backs and joints and things like that.
And they'll be like, yeah.
And ask them to stop, you know, do a diet diary.
You'd think I was trying to remove one of their limbs or something.
So I mean, it's challenging, but I tell them, it's like, look, this isn't really for me.
Most patients usually after about a week or so start getting the general gist and they
start modifying their diet all by themselves.
And really a sneaky little trick I do is I just keep on giving them diet diaries all
by themselves.
You dropped out there right there.
What was the thing?
What was the very last thing you said?
Yeah.
Usually I just give them diet diaries for three, four weeks and they just start making
changes all by themselves.
Oh, good.
You know, I don't even need to tell them anything.
They're like, they know what they need.
It becomes so apparent themselves.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So corollary to the sugar, of course, is alcohol.
So how will using alcohol like processed food degrade our endocannabinoid system?
Yeah, I think, again, alcohol, there's a context to it.
I mean, it depends on the type of alcohol and how much you're drinking.
I mean, we've got the French paradox where, you know, a glass of red wine and things like
that's not really too much of an issue.
And in fact, you know, there may be some health benefits because it helps you relax and unwind
and things like that as well, too.
But some people, again, genetically have problems metabolizing alcohol.
And so that can be an issue.
And certainly we know, I mean, my general experience, and this comes from my environmental
medicine stuff, is that things like alcoholism and that there was some really interesting
stuff that we saw around serotonin, tryptophan, metabolism and that in there.
So again, there's that intersection.
So I don't know exactly where it all in there.
But I do tell patients, like, look, you know, let's take a look at your alcohol consumption.
Because again, you could potentially, you know, limiting your resiliency, because you're
starting to consume bandwidth in your endocannabinoid tone through these disruptions in serotonin
pathways and then these also little metabolites that your body has to clear out as well, too.
I think that the next issue that starts to become problematic in that is that I find
that a lot of stuff, a lot of patients have gotten microbiome, like yeast issues.
And it's not uncommon to see patients have sort of sensitivity to yeasts because of,
you know, particularly, no disrespect to the craft beer industry, but they tend to have
a little bit more yeasty type stuff in there as well, too.
So I see sometimes that's a problem.
So I tend to watch, tell patients, you know, with a lot of GI issues to watch out for stuff
with high yeast contents and whether that's craft beers or homemade wines or things like
that.
So that's another option of it as well, too, that I get them to consider.
Right.
So let's do a little summary here before we wrap up there, Chris.
So you know, as we've already recognized, we were a little, I don't know, we were kind
of like shooting like shotgun pellets, right?
Kind of a little bit scattered, but we covered a wide breadth of area so that hopefully we
were able to provide new search terms and new, I don't know, paradigms, new ideas, new
approaches mentally for both caregivers who are intaking a new patient and want to help
them with their endocannabinoid system, as well as self-directed, you know, cannabis
enthusiasts who are trying to do it better.
And so, you know, there's kind of something for everybody in this show, but to kind of
summarize it, what are your, I'm going to ask you for recommendations for two different
kinds of listeners.
What would, what is, would be kind of your summary recommendation for someone coming
to use cannabis medicine or food for health for the first time?
And then what are their recommendations for long-term cannabis users who already, you
know, are using cannabinoids, but they want to be more effective?
Right.
So as a clinician, the thing that I, as you probably got, I like lots of information,
right?
And I think the more we understand about, you know, what we're using and what we're
dealing with, that helps inform our decision-making process and helps us make better decisions.
So you know, for someone who's new to cannabis, you know, who's, you know, where would I start?
You know, again, obviously, you know, we're taking a look at what's your overall health,
you know, what is it that we're dealing with?
Are you looking at inflammatory conditions?
Are you looking at gut injury?
So get your medical records, get, you know, review what's going on here a little bit,
try and get a sense of, okay, you know, what's my overall health looking like?
And then dietary-wise, you know, spend some time and just do the basic nutritional stuff.
You know, take a look at that, you know, clean up the diet, you know, get some exercise going,
optimize your potential.
These are really basic things, you know, and there's lots of different tools that are out
there.
There's apps and fitness bits and things like that.
So I certainly encourage patients to do that.
When it comes down to the cannabis itself, which we haven't really touched on yet, but
I think this answer kind of goes into where I suggest both my more experienced cannabis
patients, which I would give the same recommendations to as the new patients, but with my cannabis
standpoint is know what you're getting.
Like I think the biggest issue that I see here is that we don't know what's in it.
We don't know the ratios of your CBD, your THC, the terpene profiles.
You don't know how it's being extracted, what's there with it as well too.
So you know, know what's going into your bodies.
And if I were to summarize everything that we're talking about, whether it's diet or
whether it's cannabis, it's like, know what you're doing, get your information, understand
what it is that you're eating, what you're doing, what's in your food, understand what's
in your cannabis and get that and be thorough about it.
You have to be your own advocate and knowledge is power.
Fantastic.
Well, Chris, thank you so much for spending your time and your expertise with us.
You know, when Dr. Russo recommended you to me after I initiated a conversation with Individualized
Cannabis Medicine, he's all, you know, you really need to check out my friend Chris up
in Canada.
And, and, you know, I saw who you were on the internet, but then when we started talking,
I'm like, holy hell, this guy has got really unique information that I haven't seen elsewhere.
And that has been my experience today.
So I really appreciate both your expertise and, and your good cheer.
Thank you so much.
It's, it's been a real pleasure.
I've really enjoyed this.
So thank you so much.
Excellent.
And we'll, we'll come back another time.
So if you want to connect with Chris or just find out more about his practice, you can
reach out to him at ParadigmNaturopathic.com.
You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the show at
ShapingFire.com and wherever you get your podcasts.
If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it if you would leave a positive review of
the podcast, wherever you download.
Your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too.
On the Shaping Fire website, you can also subscribe to the newsletter for insights into
the latest cannabis news, exclusive videos, and giveaways.
On the Shaping Fire website, you also find transcripts of today's podcast as well.
Be sure to follow on Instagram for all original content not found on the podcast.
That's at Shaping Fire and at Shango Lose on Instagram.
Be sure to check out the Shaping Fire YouTube channel for exclusive interviews, farm tours,
and cannabis lectures.
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at ShapingFire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire.
I've been your host, Shango Lose.
