I'm not a big fan of gatekeeping knowledge.
If you want to learn a skill, people shouldn't try to keep the education from you.
Gatekeeping happens a lot in cannabis nowadays.
It was less common before when we were all just criminals together.
Now that there are some legal financial opportunities in cannabis, some folks have decided that
cannabis can now be a win-lose sport instead of including everybody.
And I'm not down with that.
If you have ever considered introducing a male and female cannabis plant to each other
to watch seeds be made and have your own pile of seeds to phenohunt, you should absolutely
do that.
Breeding is not hard at all.
In fact, it is so easy it happens on accident all the time.
Don't let people tell you it is too hard or that you shouldn't do it.
Now that said, you don't become an elite breeder without years of work, studying, and looking
at thousands of plants.
But that isn't what you wanted to do, right?
You just wanted to make some seeds.
Make seeds.
Save seeds.
Share seeds with friends and especially patients.
Open pollinate and preserve land races and share those too.
I firmly believe in cannabis patient self-sufficiency and the plant wants you to make crosses, even
bad ones.
So this episode is for you.
It's just some breeding basics, but it's really all you need to get going.
And after you enjoy it, there are plenty of sources of advanced breeding best practices
to refine your skills later.
But get started now and have fun with it.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, cultivation, and technique efficiently and
with good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
We'll send you new podcast episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox, along
with commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week and videos too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published.
Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode.
Also we're giving away very cool prizes to folks who are signed up to receive the newsletter.
There's nothing else you need to do to win except receive that newsletter.
So go to shapingfire.com to sign up for the newsletter and be entered into this month's
and all future newsletter prize drawings.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I'm your host, Shango Lose.
My guest today is Brandon Potter.
Brandon is co-founder of Mycophyte Solutions, a group of regeneratively minded crop advisors
providing professional services to cannabis and food agriculture.
He is also on the cannabis breeding team at New Breed Seed in Oregon.
Brandon earned a Master's of Science in Biology concentrating on both fungal endophytes and
fungal pathogens at University of Wisconsin.
During today's episode, we are talking about breeding your first cannabis plants, making
your first cross.
This episode will be a great primer for anyone considering making cannabis seeds for the
first time and others who are just simply curious about the process.
If you are especially curious about breeding cannabis, be sure to check out episode 92
with Caleb Inspecta and Ryan Lee Chimera about breeding S1 seeds.
Then episode 71 with Daniel Morford on pollen collection and episode 64 on female only breeding
with Ryan Lee Chimera.
And then all the way back to episode 24 to hear Mean Gene from Mendocino discuss cannabis
breeding on the episode entitled The Keeper Plants.
On today's episode, though, set one will focus on common motivations folks have to
breed cannabis seeds, some of the clear opportunities there are for seed makers, and choosing whether
to breed indoors or outdoors.
The second set looks at choosing plants to cross, sifting for parents and ensuring pollination
occurs.
And then we wrap up the show in set three talking about the best time to harvest your
seeds, curing, and storing your new beans.
Welcome to Shaping Fire, Brandon.
Hello, Shango.
It's really great to be here.
Awesome.
Thanks for taking the time to join me.
I have been trying to put together this show for a while, but it really takes a particular
kind of person to do an introductory show on breeding.
So many of the people in the scene who I'm friends with, they may be advanced breeders,
but they don't necessarily have the bringing it down to the basics for new folks level
or really all that much teaching experience.
And so when I got turned on to you just a few weeks ago, you were kind enough to send
me auto flower seeds that I grew this summer and that was great.
But I knew you just as a seed guy, right?
But when I had the opportunity to see your interviews after the auto flower cup, I'm
all like, oh wow, this guy really can explain what he does.
And that's when I looked you up and I found out you had a master's and you had been a
graduate assistant and you had been teaching biology.
And I'm like, oh, this is the guy that I'm looking for.
And then we connected and you were exactly the guy who I thought you were.
So anyway, I appreciate you bringing your skills to us so that people who are tuning
into the show to get an easy, better understanding of how to start off growing your first, not
just growing, but breeding your first cannabis variety, that this will be a good solution
for them.
So thank you for all of that.
Thank you for all the compliments.
And yeah, I really hope I can help some people today, maybe avoid some pitfalls and wasted
time that I definitely got into when I first started making seeds.
And it is so time consuming, right?
It's such a drag to put in all that time and effort and patience and then get all the way
to the end and find out that you just screwed something up or something wasn't right and
then having to start over.
So I've only bred one time myself and it was for a very particular reason.
It was six, seven years ago when CBD stuff was first starting to become more readily
available.
And the seeds at the time, you'd buy CBD seeds in a pack and they didn't all grow with CBD
in them.
It was more like, there are some CBD seeds in this pack.
So you couldn't just grow them all, find your females, clone them, and then have a field
of CBD because not all of those female plants had CBD in them.
And working with the patients here on Vashon Island, I couldn't just give out seeds to
people that they were going to have to grow and then get tested before they knew that
it even had CBD in it.
That's not setting them up for success, right?
My first project was to make CBD seeds that were 18 to 1, but that every single female
was going to show that CBD profile.
So I did that and gave away a bunch and then much to my surprise sold a bunch and that
was awesome.
What was your motivation for starting to breed cannabis?
Okay, well before, I just want to say I can totally relate to that problem.
Back in 2013, the first CBD seed I could get was from Sohum Seeds, it was Harless Sue.
And the pack just said, most plants will be CBD dominant.
It was really frustrating for me at the time because CBD Crew was releasing 1 to 1 seeds,
so I knew that one of their parents had to be a CBD dominant true breeding line and they
just weren't releasing it.
So I appreciate your work doing that.
But the first seed that I ever made, and this wasn't really breeding, it was just making
seed to have more seed.
It was the first strain I ever grew, which was Twilight from Dutch Passion, and I just
made seed with it.
I actually never grew any of the seed I made because I didn't like the strain.
That's one pitfall to avoid, don't make seed if you don't like it.
Actually that's really funny to put in all that effort and then go, I'm not happy with
this, I'm going to move on.
Yeah, at the time it was like I concurrently made the seed with the first grow of it, so
it didn't really waste any time for me, but it was effort that if I knew that I didn't
agree with the strain so much, I wouldn't have done.
It's interesting because people grow for a lot of different reasons.
Of course there's just fun, there's cannabis enthusiasts who just freaking love the plant
and they want to do and try everything.
And then there's people who are more in it for the science, they're botany minded and
they're all like, I must know all plants intimately.
Then there are some people who do it in service to patients, which is where I was coming at
it from, I needed this for patients.
Then there's, I think most people fall into one of the last two categories, which is to
get something that they uniquely love or because they need to make some money.
I think people generally fall into those categories.
When you decided that you wanted to dive in and really study it, take your botany and
soil and biology backgrounds and really dive into cannabis, what did you want to create
with that?
What was your goal?
The reason why I'm asking you, I know the show isn't about you, but what I'm hoping
is that the people who are listening to the show, who are thinking about getting into
this or are considering it, maybe giving them a little encouragement.
Sure.
I always had an interest in cannabis.
I didn't know that I would be in the industry necessarily, but it was a goal.
I lived on the East Coast, usually in not friendly states.
I was growing black market back in the early 2000s and all that while I was going through
formal school for biology.
Then I worked for the Forest Service for a little bit.
Then I went back to grad school for plant pathology, focused on fungal pathogens.
All of that was in the back of my mind, well, this could be used for focusing on a natural
resource career with the Forest Service or Park Service, or I could also do cannabis
with this.
Especially nowadays, if you're young and you have access to a lot of schools that have
cannabis-specific programs now or classes, even schools in unfriendly states are able
to work with hemp and do really cool genomic cutting-edge technology type stuff with it.
If I were just getting into it, I might have focused more on that in my education.
I always wanted to work with cannabis.
I was always interested in breeding.
I didn't really take many formal breeding classes.
I really learned on the job since I've worked with a cannabis breeder.
I had a background in genetics and biology, but practical plant breeding is a much different
thing than I had in my head at the time.
Yes, it's just much more directed than, you know.
I think evolutionarily a lot, and evolution still applies, of course, to plant breeding
and artificial selection, but the numbers and how to achieve something on a human time
scale are a lot different.
Is opportunities, right?
You and I both got into breeding originally because we both saw the opportunity and the
need to have a pack of seeds that CBD was expressed in every one of those seeds.
That's what originally got you and I to start.
But there's so many opportunities right now.
As somebody who's very involved with the cannabis breeding scene, what are some of
the opportunities, the niches that are just dying to be filled right now?
There are a couple that I see.
Some of the first things, beyond just making seeds for preserving and growing in the future,
the first breeding programs that I also started on my own were CBD programs where I was trying
to get CBD-dominant plants as well.
And then I was also eventually trying to put CBD into autoflower plants.
So the autoflower generally was a missing niche that I saw maybe 10 years ago, and that's
being filled.
But there's still a huge deficit in the quality and variety of autoflower plants.
So that's still a really big, open niche.
A lot of people are moving into it.
There's a lot of new growers that are just growing autoflowers.
And there are some great autoflower genetics, but people have only been working on autoflowers
for the last 20 years intensely, maybe 30, 40 years total as far as smokable flower goes.
And they've been working on photoperiods for thousands.
So there's a lot that can be moved into autoflower to improve those still, just as THC cultivars.
Also smokable hemp is turning out to be a smaller market than maybe I thought it was
going to be a few years ago.
But there's also a lot of potential in a missing market there.
So I don't know how big of a market, but there is a lack of good smokable autoflower hemp.
There's increasing amounts of good smokable photoperiod hemp, but that's still far below
THC photoperiods that are elites.
The other big market that's going to be a little harder for small scale growers to compete
with is the minor cannabinoid market.
So especially CBD, THC are relatively easy to the inheritance patterns of them.
They kind of function as one co-dominant gene where you cross a THC dominant plant to a
CBD dominant plant and they come out intermediate.
You inbreed that generation and it's going to segregate 1 to 2 to 1 where 25% will be
THC dominant, 50% will be intermediate, 25% will be CBD dominant.
So that's a relatively easy gene to breed with for a home breeder.
You still have to get that tested.
You can bioassay it, I guess, and if you're not getting high off a plant, it's probably
a pure CBD plant.
What's that term you just used, bioassay?
Is that kind of like a cute phrase for smoking it?
Exactly.
I've not heard that, that's funny.
Alright, sorry, go ahead.
I actually heard that in reference to, I think it was Andrew Weil and Gary Linkoff, who was
the Audubon Mushroomfield guy author.
They found some Gymnopolis spectabilis in Central Park in New York and they reported
it as active following a bioassay.
Meaning they just ate it and hoped it went well.
Yes, yeah.
Sorry about that term.
I interrupt you, you were explaining how some of the novel cannabinoids are a target-rich
environment, but that's not just for everybody because of the analytics that are necessary.
Yeah, it's going to be hard to compete with some of the bigger players.
Like your neighbors at Oregon CBD Seeds, right?
They've got a whole scientific setup there now for intense analytical breeding.
It's hard for a normal Joe to compete with that.
Yeah, exactly.
Especially at Numbers to create a plant that is not just that cannabinoid, but is a worthy
agronomic plant to grow.
So, yeah, that's where I see the major market lapses right now.
I totally agree with you on both of those.
And if I was getting into breeding right now, I would intentionally try to stay away from
the kinds of stuff that the big companies with deep pockets and scientific teams were
working on.
Because the long and the short of it is that unless it's your passion, you're not going
to be able to do it.
All those companies are going to get that stuff done first.
It's really hard to compete with folks like that.
Whereas anybody can, for example, I agree with you, the auto flowers are continuing
to be more and more predominant for home growers and patients and competing with light depth.
I think there's a lot of opportunities in auto flowers and also for atypical terpenes,
for example, like menthol.
Sure, there's some plants that have got menthol, but there's not a lot.
There are a lot of other flavor terpene profiles that are as fringe as menthol that people can
find and just run with.
And I think that is something that is more about having a decent size sift and putting
the time to smell and then focusing.
You can get to that with backyard or bedroom breeding a lot easier than you're going to
be able to create a freaking THC-V dominant strain.
And in some ways, even though those are inherited in complex, multi-genetic fashion, something
like a terpene profile, there is a limit to the scalability simply because some of these
large firms can't smell every plant and can't take care of every plant in a way that really
gives you a good idea of what the terpene profile or the aroma profile is going to be
at the end of the cure.
So even if they have all the genomic data and they know exactly what base pairs are
in that plant, we don't really have the phenotype data of what genes are associated with different
terpene profiles.
So that's an area where home growers are still very competitive.
Something like disease resistance can also, even though it's very complex and for known
genes, the big players are going to have an advantage.
If you have a plant that you observe to be resistant, that's something you can observe
at home even if it's a complex trait.
Yeah, that's a really interesting point.
These companies that are doing huge, huge, huge grows of thousands of plants, they are
totally not going to have the staff and the labor to be able to go and sniff all the plants
to find out what they have that's special.
And that really does create a stronger position for the home growers.
Another opportunity that I think there is is for short flowering plants.
And I mean short flowering photos that are under, let's say, 52 days.
Because as we know, when those of us who are not in California, we buy these seeds and
we get California seeds.
And if you're going to grow them indoors, that's one thing because you can pretend California
in your bedroom.
But if you're going to grow outdoors, California seeds don't just thrive.
Or they don't thrive just anywhere because most of us have got other kinds of weather.
I'm an extreme example here on Vashon Island where our plants start flowering around August
15th.
So an 8-weeker is going to be October 15th.
And I'm 2.5 to 3 weeks into my rain season at that point.
There's no chance I'm going to finish anything from California in western Washington.
So I look for very short things.
There's a bunch of under 55-day stuff from Humboldt Seed Company where they may just
barely be that where I live versus California.
But there's no doubt that they're short.
That's a great opportunity, too.
If somebody could get a reliable, great terpene profile, 45-dayer, I think it'd be a huge
breakthrough.
Yeah, I agree.
Increasingly, I'm seeing people selling what they call fast photos, which are a photo period
crossed with an auto flower.
So they'll function as photo periods.
Vegelum, you can take clones.
But that auto either speeds up its flowering time and or it triggers earlier from diminished
light.
So it has a longer critical night period than a pure photo period.
I actually haven't come across those yet.
I want to come across that myself.
The idea to have a fast flower that I can clone is very attractive to me.
I think that Humboldt Seed Company has some like that.
I'm gonna have to start using that keyword.
We've kind of established a whole bunch of different reasons that people breed and what
some of the opportunities are.
Let's talk a bit about space and materials because there's a lot of different ways to
do this.
And anybody who tells you that there's only one way to breed, they're just kind of full
of themselves because there's lots of ways to do this.
Would you go ahead and just kind of like describe and compare what your thoughts are about
breeding indoors versus breeding outdoors?
It's going to depend on what your final goals are to some extent and what your situation
is.
You can do either.
If your goal is to produce a plant that's being grown outdoors, then there are benefits
to growing outdoors.
You can also grow outdoors and indoors where you're breeding a cycle outdoors and then
breeding indoors over the winter or some combination like this.
Of course, indoors is more accessible to more people, but again, it depends on what your
final goals are.
And there's different ways you can tweak your breeding scheme and methodology to buffer
against some of the negatives for either situation.
So yes, both can be done.
I don't know that there's an inherent benefit.
It just depends on what your end goals are.
To what degree do you think it's important to breed in the same environment where the
seeds are going to be grown?
I think it's fairly significant, especially for outdoor varieties.
I'll give an example where we have worked with some autoflowers that are bred in Oregon
where they're grown outdoors in the summer usually during the dry period, so like July
to late August.
And the weather during that period is usually 80s to 100 during the day lately.
And then it still drops to 40 to 60 at night.
So you get this cool night period.
Well, those same autos when they were grown in the Midwest ended up really short.
And one of the things we kind of theorize is that they're responding to basically heat
units.
So because it's still hot in the night in the Midwest, their metabolism is sort of still
running and they're aging in a way, but they're not actively elongating and growing in the
same way that they do in Oregon.
So there's definitely environmental effects that can have unforeseen or significant consequences
on how the plant reacts depending on where you're growing it.
Of course, for indoor breeders, the differences are going to be minor.
Well, there still will be some between and among different indoor grow setups, but it's
going to be a much more significant effect when you take an indoor-outdoor or vice versa.
That's an interesting idea about the hot nights.
I think you may have just solved something that happened to me.
Earlier this summer, I was running a specialty auto flower indoors, which I normally just
run them outdoors.
But I was doing it indoors and it was a really squat plant.
It didn't stunt, but it stopped at about 18 inches and it was heavy.
I mean, it was heavy for 18 inches, but I didn't understand why it didn't stop.
It didn't get the height that I was expecting and other people did.
Well, it was indoors and it was hot in the spring here and my nights were hot.
I bet you that those additional heat units kept them surprisingly small because it was
so hot in the evening.
I had never heard of that analysis before.
It could be something, not necessarily how I described it.
There is a technique called temperature diff in greenhouses where they affect the height
of greenhouse plants by raising the temperature in the morning for a certain period of time
and plants will react physiologically to things like that.
It could be either or both of those things.
And similarly, I've seen a plant, an auto flower that was bred outdoors in Oregon or
in greenhouses and it was grown indoors under 24 hours of light.
It ended up about a foot tall, like six branches, and each branch had about a two liter
nug on it just to the soil.
It does not look like that.
Normally, it's a four or five foot plant with normal size buds and structure.
So, they definitely are reacting differently.
So, let's talk about the advantages in space between indoor and outdoor.
Indoor is, of course, great.
There's lots of great reasons for it for privacy and control of your environment and
maybe you're breeding for indoor plants because that's what you want to provide to people.
But also, outdoor is great because if you don't live in the city, you may well have
unlimited space and so you can do a more significant run to produce more seeds at one
time.
I was talking to Dan Jimmy at Gnome Automatics and he's all like when he wants to bring
something to market, he's looking to produce 30,000 seeds of it.
I'm like, holy crap, that's a lot of moms and a lot of processing those seeds.
Depending on what your particular needs are as the breeders, that's really going to influence
whether or not you choose to grow indoor or outdoor.
It's not just one variable.
It's probably eight or ten or twelve variables that you have to decide which is right for
you.
Yes, totally.
A lot of these questions we have to start with where your goal is.
Are you just breeding for yourself, for home?
Are you trying to produce commercial quantities, things like that?
And that will change how you approach the project to begin with.
What do you think about a lot more people are breaking up indoor space into subspaces
by using grow tents versus just using an entire room like a grow room.
They might take their garage and put four or six tents in there and treat them as individual
spaces.
I think that's a pretty novel approach to turn one room into six rooms.
They're doing this for breeding?
Yeah, they're doing this for breeding.
Okay, so I think it's valid as long as you meet a certain pollen control threshold.
Especially cannabis pollen.
It's wind pollinated.
It moves around really easily.
So I've seen people doing this where they're filtering, usually through a MERV filter.
I think anything rated above a nine will work for pollen, but probably an 11 to 13 is better.
And then they'll have them under positive pressure blowing in clean filtered air.
The problem is if you have a bunch right next to each other, you also want to be filtering
the outlet air with the same filter or higher.
And then with grow tents, they're usually sewn together.
So if you have any holes in that tent, pollen will be escaping out of those holes.
You can tape them up or I've seen heat sealed tents where there aren't any holes in the
seals.
But anytime you open that tent as well, you're going to be exposing the rest of the tents
to pollen.
So there are ways to manage that.
You can build tents where there's irrigation into the tents and once the pollen starts
to drop, you close the tent.
You never open it until it's harvested.
So that's one way to prevent pollen contamination.
Another way, that's for producing pretty much commercial quantity seed lots though.
If you're devoting a whole tent to it.
If you're just breeding, you can do pollen bags or individual branch pollination probably
with just as much control over pollen contamination.
And if you're not opening the tents, that's different.
You have a situation where they're completely sealed.
That's the ideal situation.
But if you have grow tents and there's these pinholes all over the seams and things like
that, well, that might still work broadly, but you're going to have a certain amount
of pollen contamination from one to the other, especially if you're opening and going tent
to tent.
You can minimize that with spraying water and things like that, but cannabis pollen is
very movable.
Yeah, I think that's a good point.
I think for most folks, they're probably going to start with their one tent and their
one project.
Then after they have success and they give some seeds away to patients and they sell
some to friends or online or something, and they're like, oh, hell, I think I want to
do this some more.
Well, okay, so maybe now you get a couple more tents, but you're going to spend some
of that money you made to get some really nice tents.
I've had a bunch of really mediocre to crappy tents.
Gorilla sent me a tent and I'm like, oh, crap, this is a whole different level than the other
tents I've been using.
If I was doing this, I'm certainly not saying that people need to use gorilla tents.
I'm just saying that there are different grades of tents.
As somebody decides to take this more seriously, if they choose to, they will probably upgrade
their gear to be on par with their level of interest.
Yes, I would say that's valid.
If you're producing a tent full of seed, though, that's a lot of seed.
You said 30,000 seeds for a commercial lot from Dan.
You could do that in a 10 by 10 area.
I'm used to producing seed outdoors, but probably 1,000, maybe 1,500 watts could easily produce
that much seed.
Yeah, I agree with you on that.
But if you've gotten to the point that there's one, well, I'm pretty sure that one tent can
grow to be five tents pretty fast when somebody's got the bug.
You said that most of the time that you are breeding, it's outdoors.
Let's talk a little bit about doing that responsibly.
I have no idea what process you use, but the main thing I want to hit on is folks that
just let their pollen go into the air wild, especially if they are in neighborhoods.
It's been very challenging here on Vashon Island.
We did an education campaign here, and we're not running into it as much as we did, say,
in 2015.
But in 2013, 2014, 2015 times, we had people that were just putting a male plant with some
female plants in their yard.
Our whole island is only 14 miles long, and with enough people letting pollen go on the
island, all sorts of cross-contamination was happening.
You know, patient gardens got ruined by being seeded because they didn't know that their
neighbor at the end of the block was letting pollen just like raw dogging it out into the
air.
I definitely discourage people from just letting males go, but you're doing this at a professional
level.
Is that how you guys do it with the pollen?
Or I imagine that you have more pollen control even outdoors where you're applying it in
a more controlled way.
I don't know, though, and so I'll leave that up to you to explain.
There are pollen isolation distances for commercial seed production if you're going to do an
outdoor production of seed, which I'm talking many, many acres of seed production.
Otherwise, all the breeding that we do and what I would do outdoors is the plants are
bagged.
So usually we do all-female breeding, and so we're partially reversing plants to self
them, and those plants are bagged before any pollen is dropped.
So they never release pollen openly.
It's just onto themselves inside the bag.
Similarly, if we're doing, say, a production, we will have it in a pollen isolation like
I described earlier with a filtered inlet and outlet.
And then once they start producing pollen, they don't get opened again.
So we're not just releasing pollen.
If you're doing something like a backyard, and this is another thing, you really need
to know what your goals are.
Why is someone leaving a male out there just continuously pollinating his field?
His female or their female?
How many seeds are they trying to produce?
You don't need much pollen to produce a lot of seed.
So if you're going to do a select pollination in your backyard, I would have that male in
a closet or in some, you know, you can do it in a little greenhouse, something like
that.
And personally, when I have a single male at home like this and it's not bagged, I remove
any forming male flowers before they drop pollen until the female is ready to receive
pollen.
And then I'll let the males develop, collect that pollen, or pair them in the closet, bring
the female inside, let them, you know, have sex with each other, and then I kill the male
immediately.
So doing something like that or a more controlled pollination, if you're trying to get a big
lot of seed, then if you can, try to bring the females to the male in an enclosed space
and you can let them hang out for a couple days, even in the dark, just to get pollinated
and then kill the male.
Or you could do it a couple times, you know, bring them in at night and just shake that
male all over them, take them out again.
And you could keep the male for a couple weeks, do that, and then kill the male whenever it's
done.
Yeah, I like that idea.
And I think the moral of the story is, is like, you know, there's no way in one show
that we are going to be able to cover all variables everyone might consider for making
their first, they're making their first cross.
What we're trying to get across is that there are a lot of ways to do this and make sure
you do your homework and try not to be irresponsible with your pollen.
I think that's kind of like the generally the point.
Yeah, totally.
And if you're just letting your male out there pollinate everything, you're also only doing,
you're limiting yourself to one pollination project a year as well.
Yeah, that's true, because your entire property is going to be covered with that one pollen.
Yeah, that makes a lot of sense.
Yeah, at least while that's alive.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Right on.
All right, cool.
Let's go ahead and take our first short break.
When we come back, we're going to talk a little bit about this new vocabulary people are using
about biointelligent seeds.
So you are listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is crop advisor, Brandon Potter.
There are so many seed banks nowadays that you really have options in who to choose.
Not only that, if you pick the wrong seed bank, you could be in for a really sketchy ride.
And that's only one of the reasons I recommend HEMBRA Genetics Collection to my friends and
listeners who are looking for a seed bank.
That's HEMBRA spelled H-E-M-B-R-A.
HEMBRA is not just another seed bank.
HEMBRA is a woman-operated boutique cannabis genetics provider that only sells thoughtfully
curated seeds from the top names in cannabis breeding.
With over 50 breeders and over 500 strains to choose from, you will certainly find something
you'll love.
HEMBRA Genetics has something for everyone with over 350 feminized strains, 200 regular
varieties, and over 100 auto flowers to choose from.
Names you know you can trust like Humboldt Seed Company, Night Owl, Canerado, In-House
Genetics, Fast Buds, and Gnome Automatics.
We both know that there are other seed banks who will take your money but have no customer
service.
I invited HEMBRA to advertise on Shaping Fire after hearing so many good stories about them
from my friends.
They have A-plus customer service with lightning fast response times.
In most cases, Helene and Kaitlin will get your order out the same day you place it,
and you'll usually receive your seeds in just a few days.
Most seed banks are simply not this organized or interested in getting your seeds to you
this fast.
But HEMBRA cares.
You even get free seeds with every order.
Helene and Kaitlin get it.
They have been in the cannabis growing scene for over a decade.
So save a few bucks by using this discount code too.
Use the code SHAPINGFIRE, all one word, at checkout to save 10% off your order.
Buy seeds from good folks who will get you great seeds reliably every time.
Visit HEMBRAgenetics.com today.
That's HEMBRA genetics.
As cannabis regulations become more demanding and consumers become more educated,
it is increasingly important to avoid the use of chemical pesticides when cultivating cannabis.
Beneficial insects have been used for decades by the greenhouse vegetable and ornamental
plant industry, and today many cannabis cultivators are moving from sprays and chemicals
to beneficial insects.
Copert has the beneficial insects, mites and nematodes, microbials, sticky cards,
and air distribution units you need to partner with nature to defend your garden.
Whether you manage acres of canopy or have a simple grow tent in your home, Copert is ready
to help answer your questions and help you transition away from chemical sprays towards
clean and natural solutions.
Since 1967, Copert has assisted growers in identifying pests and devising reliable solutions
while providing healthy insects and mites that will protect your yield.
Since the 1990s, Copert has been a leader in cannabis pest and disease control worldwide
and have highly trained consultants to assist you in Canada and the United States from coast
to coast.
With their global network of grower support, Copert can help.
Visit copert.com, choose your country and get detailed information.
That's copert, K-O-P-P-E-R-T dot com.
For the most up-to-date cannabis-related biological control information, you can also check their
Instagram at copertcanada.
You know getting away from pesticides is good for health and good for business, and Copert
is ready to help.
Visit copert.com today.
One of the reasons why no-till cannabis growing is so valued by farmers is because the mycelium
networks in the soil remain established from year to year.
And we know these fungal networks are essential because they are the nutrient superhighways
that extend far and wide in the substrate to feed your plants.
The trouble with growing in new living soils or blended cocoa substrates is that it takes
most of the plant's life just to create these mycelium highways.
Dinomyco endomycorrhizal fungi inoculant reduces that time and gets your plant eating a wider
array of nutrients faster.
And it's three times the concentration of the other popular brand in the US at 900 propagules
per gram of two fungal species selected specifically for cannabis cultivation.
Dinomyco is the result of 30 years of research and trials at the Volcani Agricultural Research
Institute in Israel.
It has also been vigorously trialed by cannabis and food growers across the US.
Dinomyco is now available at grow shops and on Amazon in the United States.
I love using Dinomyco to both speed up the growth of the mycelium networks in the soil
but also as a biostimulant to make clone cuttings more virile.
You can see side by side showing the comparative growth on their Instagram at Dinomyco.
If you demand reliable growing results and appreciate the importance of an active root
zone in creating a thriving plant, I encourage you to check out Dinomyco.com and use the
store locator to find out where you can get yours.
That's D-Y-N-O-M-Y-C-O dot com.
Shaping Fire listeners can get 10% off any size of Dinomyco on Amazon or Dinomyco.com
by using the discount code SHAPINGFIRE, one word, no caps.
Whether you are starting with new beds or pots, or if you want to add some zing to tired
soil, choose Dinomyco to maximize your plant's potential.
Dinomyco, endomycorrhizal, inoculant.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose, and my guest today is crop advisor, Brandon Potter.
So before the break, we were talking about some of the things to consider when deciding
whether or not you were going to breed indoors or outdoors.
While people can certainly breed in any kind of a substrate, there is this interesting
discussion that's been going on the last few years about biointelligent seeds.
The idea with biointelligent seeds is that they are grown in soil, and seeds that are
grown in soil have got a different biological makeup, and they know what to do when they
are presented soil again.
At the beginning, when I first heard that, I was like, that's a really cool idea, being
a living soil guy like I am.
I said, but I really don't know what the reasons for that would be.
A seed's a seed.
But then, last episode, when we were talking with Jeff Lowenfels about endophytic bacteria,
this is where the whole case for biointelligent seeds, I think, starts.
The idea that there is endophytic bacteria, which, if you haven't listened to that show
yet, is bacteria that spends some part of its life cycle in the cannabis plant.
It's interesting to find out that these endophytic bacteria will come up through the roots into
the plant and enter a newly forming seed.
There is another type of bacteria, which means that it is bacteria from the neighboring environment
that lands on the flower and gets folded into the seeds from the branch.
These seeds are going to be all packed up with the bacteria that the seed's going to
need wherever it goes, which makes it a more reliable, and people are using this term,
biointelligent seed.
I'm very attracted to that.
What are your thoughts on seeds that are grown in living soil versus more inert mediums like
cocoa or something?
I definitely agree and am intrigued by the interactions that are going on with the environmental
organisms and the seed and how they can pass from the environment to the seed and back.
I am more familiar with fungal interactions in that way, because fungi also form endophytic
relationships within a plant body, including some within the seed.
But I am learning more about the bacterial cycles, the rhizophagy, and things like this.
There are also, of course, bacteria within the plant body of the seed, so it's in the
embryo of the seed.
There's also a plethora of things on the seed coat.
One of the previous practices is often to be like, oh, put your seeds in hydrogen peroxide
or bleach water.
I would really only do that if you think there's a pathogen on the seed coat.
So there's definitely going to be differences in the population that are colonizing seeds
that are grown in organic substrates and living soil and things like this compared to cocoa
or more sterile media.
I say sterile media.
Nothing is sterile.
There's definitely organisms in there as well.
Their population is going to be different than a different media.
Different types of organisms, maybe species as well as total population density.
I haven't seen specific numbers on this, but in general, I would assume or expect that
living soil is going to have higher diversity and more likely to have beneficial organisms,
but not necessarily.
You could also, you know, pathogens and latent pathogens can also get into the seed, even
get into the seed.
Even botrytis can form an endophytic infection in a cannabis plant potentially and not show
symptoms and even get into the seed or the plant, the mother plant may have cannabis
on the buds and there will be botrytis on the seed coat mostly, but some of the seeds
may also be internally infected.
And that's going to be cultivar and pathophar specific on whether or not that's happening.
So my point is that, yes, there's going to be a lot of potential beneficial relationships
that we can exploit and how you produce the seed will affect that.
But it's also a pathogen risk that these organisms are in there.
So one thing to say about at least for endophytic fungi of the aerial parts of the plant.
So this is the parts of the plant that are going to be producing the seed and will potentially
provide the inoculate to colonize the seed.
Those fungi are usually acquired horizontally from the environment.
So it's not just your soil.
It's where you're growing the plant.
If you're growing that plant under a canopy of a certain tree, you're going to expose
it to a different potential population of endophytes than if you grow it indoors or
under a different species of canopy tree.
Something like that.
So it's hard to predict which one's going to be most beneficial because this is all
so new.
We don't really know how to manipulate it in that secondary way from environmental
manipulation to help inoculate the seed with the proper microorganisms.
We are gaining some knowledge of, oh, this microorganism is beneficial and we can inoculate
the plant perhaps while it's growing the seed or the seed post-harvest to help it get that
organism associated with it.
There's a lot unknown about it.
In general, the bigger the diversity, the more diverse the population of microbes are,
the more resilient and more likely you will have beneficial symbionts in there with it.
Yes.
Right on.
It's not guaranteed.
Yeah, right on.
A very, very good point.
And you know, this whole idea of bacteria and fungus that is on board a seed, this is
this is brand new science, and it is really strange to consider the idea that different
seeds from the same mother plant will have different endophytic bacteria in it because
of where it is on the plant.
And then when those seeds are germinated, that bacteria expresses itself differently
in different ways in the different plants.
So I'm going to use the word pheno even though it's not appropriate, but people will understand
what I mean.
We are always talking about different phenos in one seed run.
And what we're realizing now is like, yeah, there are those different variety expressions
within the seed run, but now it's even more complex because each seed is going to have
onboarded different endophytic bacteria depending on where it was in the plant.
And us trying to figure out how influential that is, that opens up a whole bunch of new
doors.
You mentioning making seeds under the canopy of a particular plant or a tree or something,
we may find out that the fungus that's being dropped from these plants in its own pollen
that's in the air might also be influencing our cannabis plants.
And that's just like a whole new brave new world.
Yeah, and the way some of these organisms are inherited by the plant are some of them
are passed from the parent to the seed, and that's vertical transmission.
Some of them are acquired from the environment during the plant's life cycle, which would
be horizontal transmission.
Some plants are more prone to acquiring their endophytic partners and some lean towards
systemic vertical transmission of them.
There's a lot of grass endophytes that are passed parent to offspring, and I'm really
not sure where cannabis lies along that continuum.
If you take a variety and it has a certain microbiome associated with its internal seed,
you grow that a couple times, is it keeping that through generations?
This is something I'm unclear of for cannabis.
And it might be maybe some of the organisms are kept and some of them are lost.
So there's definitely a lot of work to do.
There's a potential here too for a scientist if they can figure out a stably inherited
microbe that they can sell to breeders or seed producers to improve their existing varieties.
That's definitely a marketable product for someone if that's possible.
Yeah, that's a really interesting idea.
In fact, they actually do that for grasses.
There are endophyte-inoculated grasses, usually fungal endophytes, because grass endophytes
often have a toxin that is poisonous to livestock.
So they've developed these endophytes that are symbionts with the grass.
They help reduce insect herbivory, but they don't poison the livestock.
Right on.
Let's cycle ourselves back off the theory and back onto checking these boxes for the new grower.
The breeder knows why they want to grow and they've got an idea of what they want to breed.
They've figured out whether or not they're going to do it indoor and outdoor and how
they're going to control their pollen.
And so now they're actually choosing their plants and the actual characteristics.
For an advanced breeder who are going to go many generations, this can get confusing very quickly.
But what I'm going to ask you is that if we're just talking about the first time somebody is
making a cross and so they are going to be looking for a male that they like, and they
are looking for a female or potentially a group of females that they like to just get this,
what I'll call F1, what are some of the plant characteristics that you recommend that a first
time breeder look at when considering their males and females?
So again, you're going to have to start with whatever the breeding goal is.
You might have certain goals that are required, checks that you have to mark off, and some other
that are negotiable. And there might be traits that come up in your program as you move along
that you reprioritize that list. But in general for small scale growers,
okay, so the first decision you have to make is are you doing regular seeds or feminized seeds?
If you are doing regular seeds, I actually generally advise against choosing a single male.
To choose a single male properly, you would want to create a bunch of test crosses with a bunch of
different males and pick the male that actually passes on the genes that you want, which is
quite a bit of work. That's how a large scale breeder might do it. But for a home breeder,
that's a lot of work that I think might be better spent moving forward in generations as either a
half-sib population where you're selecting the female that you can get a good read on
the characteristics from and you're using a group of males. Or you could do, you know,
traditionally people do pedigree breeding where they're picking one male to one female.
And the risk with that is if you pick the wrong male, you send your line down the wrong road.
If you're buffering that with a group of males and you're picking based on characteristics you
know are present in the female, it's going to take longer. But long term, you might be more likely to
reach a product without having to go back and start again.
But so for characteristics that I would look for in either a male or female,
one, you want to have whatever characteristics you're breeding for should be present in both
if possible or you're planning on working more generations to get it standardized. But general
vigor, you know, disease resistance, things like that on top of, you know, most people will be
selecting for terpene structure, resin, potency, things like that will be in most people's selection
list.
So in your example, when you have multiple males, in that example, you're gonna have multiple males
and multiple females. Are you trying to hit one female with multiple males and then you're gonna
sift and search the seeds that that one female puts out? I've never, I've not heard this multiple
males approach unless people were trying to do an open pollination and preserve a line that might
be lost or something. So I like to work on a population basis, especially for early generations
of lines before I start inbreeding. So basically why I lean against single males,
let's see, how should I explain this?
Okay, so when you do a selfing, you're increasing the homozygosity to the next generation by 50%.
If you do a full sieve mating, so a male to a female or one female to a separate female,
you're increasing it by 25%. And then it goes down half if you're doing a half sieve mating,
where you're picking one select female mother plant out of a population of males that pollinated it.
So it's the slowest form of breeding in that respect, but you're moving the line forward
in a more general way. Whereas if you're doing the more specific inbreeding
types of breeding that are more traditional, say full sieve is most traditional
for cannabis or selfing is a lot more common now, you're moving it towards homozygosity a lot faster.
But to screen the amount of lines to get the exceptional plants will be more difficult. You
have to plant larger populations, you're more likely to take a step down an inbred line that
isn't the good step. So it's not that multiple males is better than doing it that way, but for
a home breeder or a small scale breeder, that's the technique I would lean towards more of like
an open pollinated variety production method rather than inbreeding. When you inbreed,
you're generally producing parent lines to make hybrids out of, and that is going to be much more
difficult for a home breeder to produce exceptional hybrids than someone with a really large operation.
So I know that some people resist going about their breeding projects because
they don't believe that they have got a lot of room for large sifts. I mean,
we all idealize large sifts and in a perfect world where you've got lots of
time, labor, and space, that's awesome. But when a new breeder says to me,
oh, I would really like to cross this and this, but I don't really have all that much
room for a lot of plants, I usually just say, just do it, dude, or person. Just go ahead and do it
and get your first one done. You don't have to. You can always get better as new projects come
about for you. And then after your original cross, if you're going to start inbreeding,
well, then you can fine tune it there. You talk about a lot of these different variables that we
want to control for, but am I right that controlling for all these variables is really about getting
more and more sophisticated? And if you've got your male line that you like and your female
line that you like, just get them in the same damn space and let nature do its thing. You don't
have to overthink this. Yeah, absolutely. And this comes back to what your goals are. If you just
want to make, say you want to make seed to have seed to phenohunt for the rest of your life,
you could do that in one grow. And if you have two lines that you like,
smash them together, you have seed, and you can either move forward generationally with that
seed or just phenohunt that seed forever. And for that, especially if someone just wants,
oh, I just want a bunch of dank seed and have it forever, you could get two elite female clones
that you know you like, put them together, and other people would start a seed company for that.
And that's very easy if you have access to those original genetics to do. But if you have two lines
that you like, absolutely, don't put barriers up for yourself. Just get it done, make the seeds,
and see what you end up with. There's a lot of different directions you could take that as well.
If you are an indoor grower and you have those plants on hold, you can do backcross breeding
type things if you're selecting for certain traits in one of the parents, or you can inbreed,
or you can just grow that seed forever. So we now are talking about being in a situation where
we have chosen our, either one or now, I'm liking your case for multiple males, and you've got your
one or multiple females, depending on what your goals are and how much space you have.
What do you do about the pollen dropping from the male when the female is ready for it?
Since you're going to be bringing together two different varieties, it's entirely likely that
the male is going to be ready at a different time as the female. I've not run into this,
since I've only done this once. I just put them next to each other and I got lucky.
Would you speak to this idea of having the pollen drop at the right time?
You'll probably end up tying this back into the show to your idea for just maybe bagging some of
the branches to collect it and put it on later. But just speak to this idea to the male and female
being ready at different times, which unfortunately happens with humans too.
I hope you have some background on how long your plants are going to flower or something like that.
Generally, I would start the male first, because even if it's ready first, it'll produce pollen for
a certain window of time, and you can get your female ready in that time, or you can save the
pollen. Generally females, people like to hold the pollen off of them until they're, if you have an
eight-week flower, maybe week three, so that it has enough stigmas to produce a good seed yield. If
you pollinate earlier than that, it'll be fine. You just might get a lower seed yield. Your seeds
might be bigger. You could also have the female and male together the whole time, and it'll
eventually produce new flowers. That's fine as well. You just have some different seed ages.
As far as the best way to pollinate, if you can get your male dropping flowers at the right time
or a little bit before that, and you hold your male in a separate area until you want to
pollinate, that is ideal. If you have to save pollen, I personally try to avoid saving pollen.
It's always been hit or miss for me, but you can get the pollen, and you can get the pollen
collected, remove any flower material from there, and save it with desiccant in
the freezer. That should last, theoretically, a long time. I have never pushed it because
saving pollen has always not worked out well for me. It always gets better seed production when
it's fresh. Similarly, feminized pollen producers especially sometimes have trouble dropping
the pollen out of the anthers. You can collect the entire flowers, dry the flowers, and then
kind of grind them up, and the pollen will fall out, and then apply that by hand. That works
all right. It's always preferable that the pollen just drops, and it's less work,
and everything works out all right. Usually, I would just get rid of the male as soon as you
pollinate unless you're leaving it in a tent or something like that and letting it go until
harvest. Yeah, I agree with you about saving pollen. I have found that most of the time when
I've done that, it gets moist and rots, or it starts to clump on the female flower when I go
to apply it. In retrospect, this is pretty cheesy, but when I did my cross, I literally
wrapped the male into the female plants and put them on my deck in a tent and just
let them do it naturally. I got lucky because I didn't have to save it.
There's a lot of people who save pollen successfully, and there are certainly ways to do
it. Since we're talking about somebody doing this for their first time, we want to try to
continually keep this as simple as possible. Where in the process do you normally add the pollen to
the female plant? When I say process, I mean where in the flowering cycle. Do you want to
encourage the pollen immediately as soon as you start to see pistils, or do you want to wait until
the flowers are more mature? Generally, I would wait until the flowers are a little more mature.
However, depending on your situation, if there is potential for pollen contamination,
you might want to get that pollen all over the branch or plant that you're making so that if
there is a few pollen grains from a fiber hemp grow a couple miles away blowing around,
you've already fully pollinated with your preferred pollen source to limit potential
contamination. Otherwise, I would wait until there's a little more flower and you get better seed yields.
Right on. How do you know that you have effectively pollinated your plants? A lot of
first-time breeders will either add the pollen themselves or put them near each other,
and they're hoping for it. Then, because they don't have a lot of experience, they're all like,
did it do it? What are the first visual signs that the plant has accepted the pollen successfully?
Sometimes it can be hard to tell. Generally, the first things that you'll see is that the pistils
kind of start to turn brown. This can also just happen by touching them. So if you touched them,
it might just turn brown because you touched them. But it kind of becomes distinctive once
you get an eye for it. It's like a certain way that the pistil shrivels back. Then pretty soon,
within a week maybe, you can see the ovule start to develop into a seed through the bract.
At what point will they start to see seeds form? I know that we'll talk more about how long to let
the seeds to run and mature down the line in this conversation, but when will they start seeing the
green, very young seeds start to form? It's a little bit plant-dependent depending on how
the structure of their bracteole that's surrounding what's going to become the seed.
But as soon as a week, I can see them sometimes. They usually appear white at first, and the pistils
still are attached. You kind of can see them poking out sometimes. You hit on feminized seeds
briefly, and I want to go back to that for one moment. This show is not about making feminized
seeds and their importance. We've done that on other shows, but I would just like you to speak
to the idea of the first-time breeder considering whether or not they want to make feminized seeds.
Just walk us through what those considerations might be for the first-time breeder.
Yeah, so there's definitely positives and negatives. The first positive for a female-only
breeding project is that you're getting a read on both sides of whatever cross you're going to make,
so you can make more effective selections. The major drawback to feminized seed, especially for
home producers, is that it's less reliable and that some plants don't reverse as well, and you're
more likely to have a pollen failure. You can have a nicking failure where, especially
you mentioned earlier about getting the male flowers at the right time as the female is ready,
if you have a short-flowering indica and you're trying to cross that to a long-flowering
tropical variety, you might want to have the short-flowering variety be the pollen donor,
or you're going to have to flower that long-flowering variety far before the short-flowering
variety, because you could trigger a tropical variety and it doesn't produce
pollen for another eight weeks, meanwhile the other plant's done.
So with feminized seed, you're more likely to get a pollen failure like I mentioned, where either
you're going to have to put extra work into collecting the flower and helping that pollen escape,
or it just doesn't produce very viable pollen and you get lower seed yields.
If you're having a long-term breeding project, if you're having
pollination issues from the beginning, that's a red flag. So some varieties are going to be better
as regular varieties for breeding because of that for home breeders or seed producers,
but as far as functionality, feminized seed isn't genetically modified or anything like that.
As far as I'm aware, there is no functional difference in the plants that are grown from it.
You can breed female feminized seed to regular seed. You can breed feminized seed only for generations.
That's fine. So yeah, the major drawback I see about feminized seed is pollen production,
and you have to understand at least some about the technology of how to reverse a plant, which
is pretty accessible nowadays. All right, so let's go ahead and take our second short break.
When we come back, we're going to talk about judging when to collect the seeds and harvest them,
handling them, and prepping them for whatever you're going to do next.
You are listening to Shaping Fire, and my guest today is crop advisor, Brandon Potter.
Once you've discovered the benefits of using cannabis, it's a very small step to start making
your own edibles, gummies, lotions, tinctures, and concentrated oils at home. Magical Butter
has been helping cannabis consumers become self-sufficient for over a decade. With the easy
to use Magical Butter countertop botanical extractor, you can create high quality cannabis
products to your exact specifications at a fraction of the cost of store-bought edibles.
I talk a lot on this show about the importance of home growing so you don't have to rely on others
to feel healthy. Well, the Magical Butter machine can empower your personal health by putting you
in control of how you use cannabis in your daily life. I've been making my own butters and oils on
the stove for years, and I much prefer the ease of using the Magical Butter machine. I just set it
and walk away. With the simple touch of a button, the Magical Butter machine grinds, heats, stirs,
and steeps your herbal extract all at the correct time interval and temperature for the perfect
infusion every time. As a result, you achieve your desired infusion easily, safely, and consistently.
Check out the Magical Butter Instagram to see the machine in action. And don't feel like you have to
go it alone. There is a huge community on Facebook called Magical Butter Users United sharing recipes
and best practices so you can learn at your own pace from others who are already doing it
successfully. Now is the time to get your own Magical Butter machine and save money while
enjoying cannabis. Use the discount code SHAPINGFIRE, one word, no caps, to get 10% off.
Visit MagicalButter.com today. One of the challenges with buying autoflower seeds is that
often you'll have as many different phenos as you will have seeds in a pack. That can be fun, sure,
but so many varieties in one pack is a sign of an immature seed line that hasn't been worked enough.
I prefer my autoflowers to be worked enough that each pheno in the pack really captures the aspects
that the breeder was intending. This is why I recommend Gnome Automatics to my friends and
listeners who grow automatic flower and cannabis seeds. Gnome Automatic seeds are not just crossed
and released. They are painstakingly sifted again and again, tested in a wide range of conditions,
and taken to a level of maturity that each plant will be recognizable by its traits.
Traits that were hard earned so that you can have your best growth cycle ever.
Gnome Automatics became a trusted and loved brand in cannabis over the last 10 years as
Mandalorian Genetics and recently changed their name to Gnome Automatics. The only thing that
has changed is the name. Founder Dan Jimmy continues to pour his passion of breeding cannabis
into every variety he releases for you to grow. Check out the Gnome Automatics Instagram
at gnome underscore automatics to see the impressive plants folks are growing.
You can score Gnome Automatics seeds in feminized or regular at your favorite seed provider listed
in the vendor section of their website. Farms interested in bulk seeds of more than a thousand
should reach out through the website too. While on the website, be sure to check out
the Gnome Automatics shirts and other merch section. If you want reliable seeds,
hand-built from effort, expert selection, and experience, choose Gnome Automatics.
For decades, Americans have enjoyed cannabis flowers in joints and bongs and bowls.
And now, with the normalization of cannabis use increasing across the country,
we have the opportunity to enjoy smoking cannabis luxuries that simply were not attainable before.
North Coast hand rolls blunts, cannons, rosin-infused donuts, and canegars available
in the state of Michigan. North Coast focuses on flavor over everything else.
Instead of growing their own flower, North Coast goes out into the cultivation community
and creates relationships with the best growers working with the best new cannabis varieties
available. Surely, heavy THC is a factor, but North Coast focuses on aroma, complex terpene
profiles, and taste that continues throughout the entire smoking experience. The North Coast
team curates flowers like others curate art. They seek out the best talent, build relationships,
helps them take their product to the highest levels, and then buys their well-cured flowers
in order to hand roll them just for you. I really like their hand-blown glass tips.
And North Coast has branched out beyond canegars into rosin-solventless THCA diamonds
and exceptional hash rosin carts for on-the-go cannabis connoisseurs too.
North Coast provides you with attainable luxury, offering you an ultra-premium smoking experience
at a price that seems reasonable and repeatable. To find out more about North Coast's line of
cannabis products, visit their Instagram at northcoast.rolling. That's northcoast.rolling.
And when in Michigan, ask for North Coast at your favorite shop, North Coast.
Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire. I'm your host,
Shango Lose, and my guest today is crop advisor Brandon Potter.
So here we are at the big finish. So now we've got plants that have got seeds in them.
We have successfully pollinated and we are so grateful to have reached this point with the plant.
You know, chances are by the time somebody is at this point, they have already grown cannabis
before, so they know how to successfully grow and harvest cannabis. In your experience, are there
any other particular care instructions that are different than growing a regular plant when you're
growing for seed? I'm thinking like, you know, different nutrients that you would normally use
or different light or I don't know, anything. Is there anything different when a seed is being
grown for, excuse me, when a plant is being grown for seed than when we're just growing it for
smokable usable flower? So generally I would give it more of a veg nutrient type profile through its
entire life than if I were smoking for flower and I wouldn't do any type of flushing or anything like
that. You want the plant to kind of senesce on its own, not because it's being starved of any
nutrients. Other than that, it's pretty similar to growing for flower. Right on. So for a lot of
folks, you know, the trying to figure out when to harvest is one of the more challenging aspects
because for many people, if they're doing photos, you know, a lot of people are just looking for
a 20%-ish of trichomes that have gone amber. And of course, you know, when you're
a more experienced cultivator, you will know how to recognize swollen flowers and the color changes
and, you know, the change in the pistils and all these extra things. But really, the first rule of
thumb that most novice cultivators go with is the 20% amber trichomes, unless it's an auto flower,
which don't really amber up the same way. What do you look for when deciding when to
harvest the seeds? Because, you know, we've all gotten seeds that didn't look like they
had finished maturing. And, you know, for many seed varieties, we're looking for, you know,
a darkened seed, potentially with, you know, striping on it, depending on what kind of a plant
it is. But we've all bought seed packs that look like the seeds were not maturing, we're like
keeping our fingers crossed that they germinate. So what do you look for in considerations when
you're judging when to pull the plant down? So basically, I base it on time from when I know
pollination occurred, as well as I usually dig out a couple seeds and squeeze them, see how full they
are, how mature they are. Of course, you're sacrificing those seeds. But it should also be
noted that a lot of seed, the color of seed and the striping on seed is really variety-dependent.
Of course, if you have a seed that's supposed to be brown and tiger-striped and it's white,
then it's probably immature. But, you know, like the Variety Freak Show has notoriously
light-colored seeds that are kind of misshapen, but that's all they ever do, even if you let them
go forever. But generally, you want to be able to squeeze a seed and have it be resistant,
full of an embryo. When you squeeze it, you'll see a now-dead or dying embryo pop out of it.
You should be able to see the completely formed little radical and things like that,
and it should start to be getting a hard seed coat. Do a few tests like that. When the majority
of seeds are like that, you're probably good to go. It doesn't hurt to let it go over. I've heard
people claim, you know, you can get over-mature seed. I really don't think that's a thing,
especially if you're cleaning your seed at the end of it. You might get
a lighter seed and things like that that will blow off when you're cleaning it.
You said that one of the things you use to judge when to pull the seeds, you said,
you know, days from pollination. So, like, dig into that a little bit more, if you would.
Are you looking for a particular number of days or a certain number of days in relationship to
how long the bloom cycle is supposed to be for this particular female? Give us a little more on
that. Usually, I use the same time frame regardless of the variety. I haven't produced seeds on any,
you know, 16-week varieties, so I can't say it's necessarily true for that, but I think that it
would still apply. Even if you pollinate based on this time frame, there would be a mature seed
sitting in there for, you know, 10 weeks or whatever. So, I would say two weeks is the
absolute minimum to get viable seed if you're trying to do something really fast. Preferably,
you want to let it go at least four weeks, and six weeks is better. So, if I can let something go at
least six weeks and then start looking at it, sometimes it'll be just completely finished
at four weeks and you don't really need that extra two weeks. But,
I don't think it hurts to let it go over unless you have something like Botrytis happening,
and that'll start infecting and eating your seeds. There's really no harm in letting it over mature.
Let me push on this a little bit. So, you said, you know, two is minimum, six would be optimum.
Now, if we are going to pollinate our plant, you know, a week or two into the flowering cycle,
that kind of lines up with an eight-week plant, which is, you know, give or take, it's a pretty
common bloom cycle. So, it could be, unless you're doing a specialty plant or something that has an
especially long flowering cycle, that you might want to pull those seeds just simply
when the flowers are done. Is that oversimplified? You're saying that you might be pulling them
earlier than six weeks? No, no. I'm suggesting that if your plant is going to start to flower,
and then you pollinate it at, like, you know, somewhere between week one and two
of the flowering process, and then you said, you know, you want a minimum of two weeks,
but more like six weeks to allow for all the seeds to mature. When you add those two weeks and the
six weeks, you're at eight weeks, which is, like, one of the most common bloom cycles for cannabis
plants. So, it's sounding like in many, or if not most, cases, it's not really a different time to
pull the seeds as it is just when you would pull the flowers normally. Yeah, completely. So, it'd
be very convenient, you know, if you have, like, an under branch that you pollinated, but you still
want the flower from that plant, you can usually just harvest them at the same time. If I do
pollinate something, especially if it's later in the cycle of something that I know I'm going to
cut down for flower, then I'll pick a lower branch, and you can kind of leave that lower branch alive
and let the seeds mature a couple weeks longer. Say you have an eight-week flower, you pollinate
it week four or five, then you want to let it go beyond where you would harvest for flower.
Yeah, you know, the one time I did this, I intentionally just let it go until I was a good
two weeks beyond when I would have flowered it because I was so concerned about
the seeds not fully maturing and ripening, and I would have gone through all this, you know,
effort for nothing. And then, so, this eight-week plant, I was looking to harvest it at week 10,
and then I was surprised it actually just started dropping the seeds onto the ground. And I'm all
like, oh, well, I would say that that's probably the most sure sign I'm going to get, but it's
possible I was misreading that sign. What stage are we at when the plant is actually literally
dropping seeds into the pot or onto the ground? And I mean, that's, you know, it depends what
varieties you're working with. That's an, you know, kind of atavistic trait where it's
ancestrally wild cannabis plants will shatter and drop their seeds a lot more readily than
the domesticated varieties. So, if you have a plant like that, yeah, you want to harvest it
before it drops its seed. If it's dropping its seed, they're definitely ready. That's really
the only... that, and say if you're outdoors and it's getting rained on, I've seen seed germinating
in colas before. So, you want to avoid those kind of negatives to letting it go too long, but
otherwise there's not a harm to that. And if you, you know, if you collected, had a plastic,
piece of plastic under the plant and collected those seeds, they'd be fine. Right on. So,
all right. So, we're in this situation. The seeds are dropping from the plant. If some are dropping,
chances are your vast majority of them are mature and ready to rock. Do you have any best practices
for harvesting a seeded plant that is, you know, dropping seeds? Because, you know, certainly we
want to be more gentle with this plant because we don't want to be dropping the seeds all over
the room. So, you know, I just cut it and put it in a bag, like right then and there, so there's as
little motion as possible. What do you do? That's exactly what I would do. If it's a big area of
seed production, I'd lay down plastic before I start cutting plants down and then collect the
fallen seed as well. But yeah, if it's just one plant, I just put the bag under it, cut it right
into the bag. Would you walk us through the next steps of, take us from where we're at now to
having clean seed. So, just walk us through. I know there's a lot of different ways that people
do it, and we are talking about somebody who is a first-time breeder, so they're not going to have
all the sexy gear that we see professional breeders have. So, just walk us through the
baseline of what they're going to do. So, what I would do first is just dry the plant material,
usually at ambient temperature. You don't want to use heat. If you have a dehumidifier, you want to
keep the humidity low. Once the plant is kind of crispy, that's when I would thresh it. It's a lot
easier to thresh plants that are just like crunchy. If you're trying to save the flower from the
seeded bud, generally I don't. I usually just throw it away because it gets really beat up and
isn't the best quality. But you could absolutely save it, especially for something like cooking.
But regardless, I would get it crispy. And then you just basically shuck it right off the branch,
get real rough, take those flowers and grind them between your hand. You don't have to be too
careful at this point. The seeds should be relatively resilient. If you're crushing them
by grinding them in your hand, then they probably were dead already. So, do that until it's kind of
a consistent powder seed plant mixture, and then you can start to separate that material.
So, I always recommend using gloves at this point because anytime I'm touching the seeds,
I really want to limit my human oils onto the seeds for the reasons we mentioned earlier about
the vital biology that's on the outside of the seeds. A lot of people handle their seeds like
like little impervious suitcases, but I go a little more gentle than that. What are your thoughts?
I definitely touch seed without gloves. During that process, I wear gloves because grinding
plant material in between your hands doesn't feel good. But I've never thought about it,
how the oil affects the seed coat microbiome. I'm sure it has some effect. I don't know what
it would be. Yeah, I didn't actually think about it at all until last episode with Jeff Lohenfels
when he was explaining the bacteria on the inside and outside of the seed that are carried with it
where the seed is going. The research of, I think the scientist's name was James White,
I believe it was. Anyway, it's totally changed my relationship with handling the seeds.
So now that you've pulverized the flowers in your hands and a bunch of seeds are just
raining out of it for you, hopefully, you still have got all of this plant material mixed in with
the seeds. If you're just producing a little bit, just going at it on a flat surface with a
credit card might be tedious, but it would work. Is there a nice best practice you like for
removing the plant material from the seeds? For home scale, I do one of a couple things.
I will grind the plant material through a screen sometimes to get it really fine.
So when you thresh the plant and you have just this pile of whole plant material, you can kind
of shake it in a tub and the seed will sink to the bottom. At that point, you might want to just
pick the plant material off the top and get rid of some of the bigger stuff. But then I'll grind
it through a spaghetti strainer screen and make all that plant material more fine. Usually, the
seed sits on top of that screen. So that's the first sift of plant material. I throw away everything
that ground through the screen. Then I pour that seed into a dishwashing tub and I kind of
shake it around. I've seen people do this a few different ways. You can also buy or build
machines that use vacuum cleaners to air clean that are more precise. But just for the home grower,
just a dishwasher tub, shake it around, move it to one corner, and then I blow into the
tub in the direction of the seeds and all the light seed and plant material will fly away.
You have to be a little bit careful. You're going to lose some good seed. Pretty much any air cleaner
is going to remove a little bit of good seed. But the idea is that you're removing 95% of the trash
and you're leaving yourself with viable seed. So now we're sorting seeds. What are you looking for
for seeds that you are going to reject? Once you have, it depends on what size lot you're doing,
and what are you saving? Are you just saving them for breeding? Then I might have a lower standard
for defects and things like that. But if you're going to give it to people, I'd clean them more
precisely. But generally, light colored seed is usually pretty obvious. If you pick up a seed,
it just crunches in your hand. It wasn't filled with anything. You just toss those away.
Sometimes those will survive air cleaning and they'll still be in the batch, especially if
they still have plant material attached to them. They might have been a little heavier and survived
that. If you know your seed variety well, you'll get a look at what a good, mature, healthy seed
looks like, and you'll be able to calibrate and look for the ones that don't look correct.
So if you have a seed variety that usually has tiger stripes and you have one that's light and
tan, I would toss that. It's surprising though, because some seed, especially if you do selfing,
or say you're trying to do a quick breeding cycle and you only let it go two weeks,
the seed might look green still and look immature, but it'll still have 70% germination,
which could be enough if all you're doing is breeding with it.
I haven't seen any of those seeds yet. That's a strange thing. Probably because
they're not released that way, right? They're part of a breeding program.
Yeah, absolutely.
I don't really know. When people talk about curing their seeds, I don't usually know what they mean,
but we do know that a fresh seed taken right off the plant,
given a little bit of time to dry, will then germinate better in a couple weeks than it does
on the day that you take it from the plant. But I actually don't know a whole lot about that.
Would you speak to this idea of curing seeds and letting them dry and to increase germination rates
so that when you go to them, they're actually ready to do their job?
Yeah. I think it's two things. One is drying it down to a moisture level where it will be
shelf-stable for a certain amount of time. That's down to 5% moisture is preferred. Anything under
10% and in cold treatment is also going to stay alive for years. There's also another aspect to
curing or aging your seed a little bit. It's probably post-harvest maturation, just physiologically,
that embryo is still doing things after the harvest and it's not quite ready to germinate yet.
If you plant a week after cleaning seed or something like that, you might get 50% germination.
If you wait two to three weeks, that'll go up to 90%. There's something happening and I think
it's beyond just because the moisture content probably won't change that long in that amount
of time. My guess is that's mostly some physiological process within the seed.
Let's finish up with storing. Now you've put in all this effort and you've got your first run of
seeds and you're so freaking stoked. You're going to share them with your friends and you can't wait
to grow it and smoke it. But you've got some other stuff you've got to do first. You're going
to need to store it for a while. What are your best practices for storing seed? Before I get to
that, just one more thing I forgot to mention. I have heard some people talk about some seed
need to, of other species, need to what's called vernalize, where they go through a cold period in
the winter before they're able to germinate. I have heard some people report, and I don't have a
specific experience with this, but they say that they get better germination if they put their
seed in, not just wait those two or three weeks before trying to plant it, but they put it in a
refrigerator or a freezer for that period of time. I'm not sure if they've compared that just to
waiting, and I'm kind of curious to try that sometime. But usually when we're waiting, the seed
is in a cold vault. So basically all our seed is getting that treatment anyway. But yeah, so
when your seed is dried down to a good percentage, which should be under 10%,
preferably under 8% or so moisture, you can put it in either a freezer or a refrigerator.
I usually keep my stuff in a refrigerator. Freezer should be okay as long as the moisture level is low,
and that's probably best for long-term storage. The problem with either a refrigerator or a freezer
usually arises from when you're taking the seed in and out.
So you want to have it in an airtight container, maybe with a little desiccant,
and put it in the freezer, refrigerator. When you take the seed out to access that session,
whenever you're ready to grow it, you want to let it acclimate to whatever the room temperature is
before you open it. Because like if you take that, say you have it in a little plastic container,
you take that out of the freezer, it's going to be instantly covered with moisture. And if you
open that before the seed reaches, before it all equalizes in temperature, the same thing will
happen to the seed. And that's what will limit the viability over time. More than temperature,
more than the air exposure, it's going to be moisture that is a danger to seed.
So now we've got them cured and we've got them stored, and we know that we want to bring it back
to temperature before we open the container. Especially if we're only going to take out some
of the seeds, we don't want to reclose the container with all that condensation that it
suddenly pulled out of the air, because you'd risk either mold or heck, maybe even potentially
accidental germination, eh? Yeah. If you're taking out a little pack and you're going to plant all
the seed, then you don't have to wait. But if it's like a stored seed that you're taking a little
aliquot out of, you don't want to damage the seed that goes back into storage.
Aliquot. There's my word for the day. I haven't heard that in a long time. All right, great. So
before we wrap up and I let you go, Brandon, is there anything else that, you know, you've done
this process so many times and now you're doing it professionally, is there anything else looking
back on this show where you're all like, actually there's one more thing that the new breeder is
going to want to know? Is there anything that jumps out into your brain right away that we may
not have covered that we want to go back and punctuate before we wrap up? There might be a
couple points if someone were to ask me advice as a new grower. The first thing I would say is
know your germplasm that you're working with and what is available before you start designing your
program. Don't just cross things because you like the name or whatever. And also expect things to
react differently than you think they're going to when you cross them.
When you say know your germplasm, break that out a little bit. What exactly do you mean?
Know the two lines that you're working with and have grown them and things like that?
I would say have grown them and at least have seen the flower. People in cannabis especially
will attach to names and have these. I was guilty of this where you get these ideas. You fantasize
about a plant based on its description or something and then it's not what it is when you
get it. Or you have the plant and you fantasize about a cross because oh, this plant and this
plant would make a really good intermediate but then you cross them and the intermediate doesn't
exist. It's totally different. So you need to be flexible and just work with what you have,
not the fantasy of what you have. I actually have been running into a problem with that myself. I
have this fantasy of crossing sour diesel, the jet fuel OG, because I like both of those very much.
But having grown sour diesel a couple times, it is so likely to both
throw male flowers and express itself with intersex flowers that I'm just not willing to
breed with it and cause all these potential problems down the line. I didn't realize that
until I started growing the sour diesel that we have today and realizing that most of the folks
working with sour diesel are expecting male flowers and intersex flowers. I'm like, well,
I guess I probably won't go down that path because I did my research on the germ plasm.
Yes. It's also surprising. I have some things that are prone to intersex that when you cross them,
none of the plants in the cross will be intersex. Maybe if I took it another generation,
it would start causing problems. I don't want to discourage people either. If you're just trying
to make an F1 and one of them is intersex, it might solve the problem. Alternatively, I've had
plants that never produced a male flower. I crossed them. All of the seeds are intersex.
One of the parents is deep chunk, which I'm not aware of intersex problems with deep chunk,
and the other was a clone, lesberado. I don't know the background of lesberado,
but the clone itself never had a problem. Almost every single seed is just almost 50-50.
Right on. Do you have anything else to add before we wrap up?
Um, lastly, the last point that I try to impose on newer growers is,
you know, consider working with higher populations even if you have a small space. So,
this might be breaking plant count numbers for a lot of people, and this is why I would prefer,
say, if you're going to regulate gardens, do it on space rather than plant counts.
You can fit 100 plants or more in a 2x4 if you have them stunted in little
trays, something like that. If you're not selecting, especially when you're making
initial crosses and you're introducing genes where you're just selecting for one major gene,
but you want to keep the gene pool broad. If I'm doing a photo autocross and I'm not trying to
select specific phenotypes yet, I'll do those original generations as populations in small
tents. So, you're still hitting large selection numbers, and I still will make, especially,
selections against plants that get diseased and things like that, but you're in a very small space.
That's probably not something that's going to happen with the first time breeder, but that
sounds like it might be a really good set too because as soon as you do this once and you have
success, you're suddenly going to want to do way bigger sifts so you have more options, I'm
guessing. Well, cool. Well, Brandon, thank you so much for coming on Shaping Fire and sharing your
experience. I appreciate it a great deal. I really appreciate the invitation. Thank you for having me.
So, if you want to follow along with Brandon, there are three different places that you can
be in contact with him if you wish. The first, I definitely recommend following his personal
Instagram at Growing Higher. First of all, there's a lot of great plant photos,
but the commentary that Brandon offers on this or that project that he's working on
is engaging and educational, so that's a good thing. Second, I'm a big fan of the company that
Brandon has started with a couple of his friends, MycoFight Solutions, which focuses on crop advising.
With a regenerative and mycology mindset for agriculture. Their Instagram is at MycoFight
Solutions. If MycoFight is new vocabulary for you, that's M-Y-C-O-P-H-Y-T-E, MycoFight Solutions.
And then you can find out more about their actual consulting services and what they can offer at
MycoFight.com. You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the show
at ShapingFire.com and wherever you get your podcasts. If you enjoyed the show, we'd really
appreciate it if you would leave a positive review of the podcast wherever you download.
Your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too. On the Shaping Fire website,
you can also subscribe to the newsletter for insights into the latest cannabis news,
exclusive videos, and giveaways. On the Shaping Fire website, you will also find transcripts of
today's podcast as well. Be sure to follow on Instagram for all original content not found
on the podcast. That's at Shaping Fire and at shangolos on Instagram. Be sure to check out
the Shaping Fire YouTube channel for exclusive interviews, farm tours, and cannabis lectures.
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire. I've been your host, Shango Los.
