It's funny how some things are evil until they are not.
When I was getting my start in cultivation, male cannabis plants were a scourge.
They essentially damaged the female plants that we were trying to grow as medicine, and
we had to be on the constant lookout because they were sneaky and could get missed.
My mentor, Hector, enjoyed the hunt though, and catching the boys before they could get
at the girls.
It wasn't long though before we started thinking about crossing particular plants to make a
more reliable medicinal plant.
Suddenly those male plants had a role to play and the pollen was valuable.
Of course, cannabis breeding is so hot right now, and pollen is more valuable than ever.
Have you used CBG dominant cannabis flower, tincture, or other preparations in the last
six months?
Dr. Ethan Russo asked me to let you know that he and others are conducting a study to determine
the benefits and drawbacks to cannabigerol and they would love your opinion.
The questionnaire takes about 10 minutes and can be anonymous if you wish.
The study is available at bit.ly forward slash CBG study.
That's bit.ly forward slash capital CBG study.
And the link is in the notes for this episode on shapingfire.com too.
Thanks for considering participating.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, business, and technique efficiently and with
good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
We'll send you new podcast episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox, along
with commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week and videos too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published.
Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode.
Also, we're giving away very cool prizes to folks who are signed up to receive the
newsletter.
There's nothing else you need to do to win except receive that newsletter.
So go to shapingfire.com to sign up for the newsletter this week and be entered into this
month's and all future newsletter prize drawings.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I'm your host, Shango Lose.
My guest today is Daniel Morford of Heart Rock Mountain Farm.
Daniel is a lifelong cannabis farmer, having learned from his dad who started growing in
1976 on their family farm in Mendocino.
Daniel has been cultivating with a focus on breeding for some 17 seasons now, and he and
his dad continue to focus on licensed cannabis breeding with their California nursery license.
The farm has earned the prestigious Dragonfly Earth Medicine Dempure Certification for regenerative
farming.
Today we'll be discussing the collection, storage, and application of cannabis pollen.
One note on audio quality.
I migrated Shaping Fire to new recording software this week and I didn't get the settings exactly
correct.
The next few episodes that we recorded are all fine, but this particular episode included
a bit of learning curve on my part, so the mic doesn't sound as good as usual.
Luckily though, Daniel sounds fine and we're all here to hear him anyway.
So thanks for tolerating me recording on the wrong mic, and next week's show sounds better
than any Shaping Fire in the past.
Welcome to the show, Daniel.
It's good to be here.
Right on, man.
So hey, let's get right into it.
You know, historically males have been shunned and destroyed by everybody.
They were a threat to the garden.
For those who are new to this part of cultivation, why do we want to collect pollen in the first
place?
You know, to make seeds is the pretty much only use right now, although we have sent
off pollen for research and development as a supplement to a company in Los Angeles.
I hadn't heard of that.
That's a pretty cool idea.
But yeah, to make seeds.
And so that's why folks want to do it.
When do we collect the pollen from these males?
Well, you know, it depends if you're an outdoor grower or an indoor grower.
And I do outdoor cultivation.
The males generally flower before the females, not all of them, you know.
So they'll start coming in sometimes a month before the females, depending on which cultivar.
That must be kind of inconvenient for nature, right?
For the pollen to be dropping so much earlier than the ladies are ready for it.
But they keep dropping, though.
So you know how my dad first acclimatized South American and Mexican sativas to the
climate here in Mendocino County was collecting that first pollen and putting it on just the
indicator hairs of these sativas, which grow off the main stock, not even in a bud.
And within a couple of generations of taking the earliest males to those indicator hairs,
they had acclimatized South American strains to the mountains of Mendocino County.
So you said that they keep dropping, though.
So with most males, do we find that they're actually starting early ahead of the female
flowers becoming mature?
And they often are dropping pollen throughout the entirety of the blooming process?
Yes, they would.
So when we talk later about the open pollination projects, but I'll eventually cut the males
down because they'll just keep going and you want to make sure that the seeds that you
have going will mature and not just keep, you know, fatter.
Yes, because you want to cut down on the immature seeds because if the pollen keeps on dropping
throughout the summer, if a plant, if a female plant gets pollinated at the end of the summer,
there's no way that seed's going to ever finish outdoors.
So it's better to just prevent that.
I mean, it depends on where you are.
I harvested a bunch of seed ranches yesterday, which is the latest I've ever had them, but
we're in a little banana belt for our region.
Yeah, yeah.
For most parts of the country here, the end of November, when we're recording this, everybody's
mostly done and the plants, you know, being seasonal have gone to mold already.
You know, you said that your dad did a lot with early season pollen.
Is pollen essentially the same whether it's early season or late season?
It's all viable, right?
Right, yeah, yeah.
I mean, it's just, you know, different expressions of genetics.
Oh, it is.
So, well, wait.
Well, it can be.
So sometimes the traits in the pollen change over the course of the year?
Well, yeah.
I mean, if you're doing, you know, out, let's say you have a seed lot and, you know, so
you could select the later flowering males in it or the earlier flowering males or, you
know, some, you know, or like look for specific structure in the buds.
But yeah, I mean, what they were trying to do.
From plant to plant, there's variety, but not necessarily within the same plant.
I found that in the females too, even a stable seed line, you're harvesting over two weeks
of, you know, of maturity, you know, in the females.
So you see a similar thing in the males.
And then sometimes you get within that two week window, you get a few two weeks above
or before that window with both males and females.
So is there any, you know, for people who will be doing this for the first time, it's
always interesting to see the male flowers form looking like, you know, little balls
and everything.
And, and, and then it seems like once they, once they start to form, if you're excited
about it, sometimes it like takes, seems to take forever for the first ones to pop open
and start pollinating.
And you're like, man, is it time yet?
Is it time yet?
You know, some people who are, you know, maybe newish and aggressive, you know, they start
to mess with the balls to, you know, the flowers to try to get them to pop.
You know, do you ever encourage that or are you very much keep your hands off the plant?
Oh, it depends.
Like yeah, but it's usually, I've only ever really done it with like, you know, the auto
flowers or something.
But yeah, I have actually, you know, picked off ripe male clusters that, you know, they
have like a more yellowish color and then you can take those before they open and you
could just, you know, squeeze them a little bit and pinch them and pollen will come out
onto and you can just pick off a bunch of those male flowers and go right to the female
you want to pollinate and just give it a little pressure.
And they'll send out some fresh pollen.
We should probably consider that to be something that we do rarely, right?
Like in extreme circumstances though.
Yeah.
Or like when the timing's right, you'll go, oh wow, this male's ready.
Oh, and I want to put it on this female.
You could do that and it does work.
And yeah, so it's, you know, it can be something you can do, but definitely the majority of
the pollination isn't done that way.
Right on.
So we're going to talk a lot about technique here in a little bit, but kind of generally,
I'd like you to talk to the idea of pollen being fragile, right?
Because you know, it's this, you know, very fragile powder that we're working with.
And what are the ways that some of the ways that we can damage pollen and render it inert
and not useful?
You know, moisture for sure.
You know, you want to make sure that the pollen you've harvested is kept dry and, you know,
and then I store it in a jar with, you know, a moisture absorbing packet.
And then also during like, you just harvested your pollen, you don't want to put it in the
fridge unless you want to do long-term storage or the freezer for really long-term storage.
So it's best just to keep it in a constant temperature, like room temperature would be fine.
You know, I keep mine on the kitchen table by our air conditioner.
So it stays like around, you know, 70 and, you know, because you don't want to take it
from such an extreme environment, like the fridge out to your garden where you're going
to pollinate because that going back and forth will limit the amount of viability of your pollen.
Right.
Because you're, you know, changing heat back and forth and you're changing humidity back
and forth and we don't want to be changing the state that much.
That's for sure.
And, you know, one of the longest cases of viable pollen I've heard was just from Noah
from Golden Figs this year.
He had pollen that he'd harvested in April, but it was actually still in the male flower.
He just dried the male flower and he used that that fall to make seeds.
So he kept it in the male flower to preserve it?
Yeah, he just dried the whole, yeah.
That's a pretty cool tech.
I haven't heard of that.
I hadn't heard of it either.
First time.
For me, the most dangerous aspect of collecting the pollen and, you know, as far as its fragility
is, is just being careful to not have it blow away, you know, either by my breath or a breeze
or somebody setting something down on the table while I'm working with it.
It's really remarkable.
I mean, it's designed to be carried by light breezes, right?
And so it takes that job real seriously.
Yeah.
I definitely find myself holding my breath during certain aspects of pollen collection.
So let's go ahead and get like into that part of it.
So, you know, during the second set, we're going to be talking a lot more on like scaling
up the number of plants.
But we want to make sure that we kind of go through the simple version of this once for
folks who are new to this idea and patients and home growers.
And then second set, we'll hit it a little harder for the, you know, people who are doing
larger sifts and everything.
So will you walk us through it, assuming that, you know, that the cultivator has got one
male and one female?
Just take us through the whole process from the very beginning.
Yeah.
So, you know, you can just pretty much leave the male alone until it starts to get nice
and chunky.
You don't really have to worry about it until it gets, you know, deep in the flower.
And then, you know, depending on how you're harvesting your pollen, you want to check
it a couple of times a day.
And, you know, some of the easiest way someone can make seeds with one male and one female
would be to have them in a five-gallon pot and just take them into the shower.
Yeah.
Or the bathroom or somewhere, you know, isolated from the rest of the garden, you know.
And then, you know, let the pollen get on the female and then cut down the male, rinse
everything off.
You know, water destroys pollen pretty quickly.
And then, you know, give that female 24 to 48 hours, rinse her off, take her back out
with the general population and you're good.
Another thing that the home grower might want to look into, I've never used it, but it is
in some breeding books, are the, I think they're on the internet, they're called blossom bags.
And they're used in seed making to not have cross-pollination between like different varieties
of tomatoes and whatever.
And what you can literally do is you can prune up the male a little bit and put these blossom
bags over the male flower, collect those, and then put that same bag over the female
branch you want to make seeds on, you know.
One small branch can yield, you know, 50 to 300 seeds.
Yeah.
So you can, you know, and there's a lot of fun in that too.
When you're just learning how to collect and use pollen, it's actually pretty cool.
You know, you don't have to do an entire plant.
Sometimes people will just take their, you know, a few branches and maybe pollinate it
with, you know, one female plant with two or three different males.
So this branch will be this cross and this branch will be another cross.
And it's a great way to practice to get your skills up and also to learn how different
pollen interacts with the same female plant.
Yeah, I definitely will paint some ladies up just like, oh, I'm going to, you find a
good one or something, you're like, oh, this is going to get a lot of pollen, you know,
from...
So, so the first, the first technique that you suggested was just simply taking the male
and the female plant and isolating them somewhere.
For example, a shower or, or, you know, a small room in your house and just letting
them be near each other.
And, you know, I've done this as well.
I kind of, you know, wrap them into each other and tap the male a little bit and, you know,
just kind of get that going.
Why don't you go through what it's like to actually, you know, tap the plant and remove,
remove it for, for painting back on with a brush.
Why don't you talk us through that process?
Yeah.
So for your average home grower, you know, what we have done and people still do is,
you know, you just, once that male gets nice and chunky and, you know, it looks like it's
going to open, maybe, maybe it's opened, you know, started to open or some of the, you
know, you can take that and make a bouquet out of it and put it in either a jar of water
or you can do like a jar of nutrients in there, you know, like I think Josh and Kelly of Dragonfly
Earth Medicine do like a nettle tea for it.
You know, I just do water, but you, you know, sometimes you'll get a dud where you, you'll
bouquet a male and it won't drop.
And maybe if I didn't, he was just water, maybe that would, you know, help it out.
So then you take that bouquet into somewhere in your house and you, some people have it
under, you know, a Pyrex dish or over, you know, a sheet of wax paper or whatever you
want that to collect that pollen on.
And you let it do its thing till it looks like you have enough pollen for what you need.
And then you scrape it up, get the plant material out, you know, put it in a jar with a moisture
absorbing packet, keep it in like a dry place, let that pollen cure for a few days, and then
you can put a lid on it and you're good.
And then when it comes time to apply the paintbrush, you know, you wait for a look at, check your
weather reports early in the morning, like right at sunrise where we're at, there's like
no or little wind.
And this year I made myself some like windscreens to set up so that, you know, I didn't waste
my mornings getting up really early with my pollen kit.
When there's a one mile an hour wind, I'm like, oh, I can't, you know, or two mile,
three, you know, they would ruin my morning of seed making.
But especially with the scale that I achieved this year, it helped accomplish that.
But even on your small, you know, set up some windscreens or get some of those Chinese curtains
even would work great.
Or the, I don't know if they're Chinese, but Asian curtains, you know, like the folding
ones.
So we use the, I made some with just some bamboo and the frost protection fabric, Rime.
And then, you know, and then you paint, you know, if there's no wind, you can get right
above the branch you want to paint and just tap the brush and you can see the pollen just
fall straight down to the ground.
And I've even seen that when harvesting some males that were starting to open in our male
garden on a no wind morning, you can wash the pollen doesn't get very far.
When you when you make this bouquet of the male flowers, and I like this technique, this
is not one that I've tried that you, you know, you put it into a mason jar or something that
acts like a vase.
And you've got your either just straight water or a light nutrient solution perhaps in there.
And they start to open.
I imagine that there's going to be pollen on the sides of the mason jar and then whatever
you're collecting below it, do you put any kind of a dome over it so that the pollen
doesn't go elsewhere in the room?
You know, I haven't in the past, but you know, and you know, like I said, I have developed
like other techniques, when we started just to scale up in the pollen boxes, and I do
have a pyro plexiglass lid for those when and I in a little hole with a coat hanger
and I do stir them up.
So the pollen doesn't go elsewhere and it just drops into the box.
And I've made, you know, the homegrower could just use a cardboard box to do that too.
They could get creative if they wanted to.
But, you know, like when we had like eight males, we'd have one in the kitchen, one in
the bedroom, one in the back, you know, you just spread them out, you know.
Yeah. And certainly that's something that's perfectly good for a home or a patient thing.
But, you know, as you get more calm, you know, as you get more hardcore about it, like you
are nowadays, you're going to want to keep those, you know, a lot more excluded from
each other.
You mentioned that once the pollen is dropped onto your collecting, you know, paper or Pyrex
or whatever, that then you and then you jumped to, you know, the paintbrush part.
But let's talk about taking the pollen off of that piece of paper or Pyrex.
So how much do you clean up the pollen before you remove it from that dish?
Because like, you know, there's a lot of stuff that drops from plants in addition to pollen.
Yeah. I like to get my 99 percent clean and I use just a couple like my, you know, a Costco
card or whatever.
I use two cards and, you know, very carefully I will do a very light, just kind of hold
the card loose in my hand and drag it over the paper.
And that gets the plant material out towards the bottom.
And then I manipulate that a couple of times and get the majority of the I get the plant
material off with as little pollen as possible.
And you know, I have used tweezers before in the past, but I've developed a nice light
touch technique to get the majority of the plant material off with just a couple of cards.
But yeah, you know, tweezers will work, too.
You know, I haven't done it, but I know some people have used like the little tea strainers
or whatever, you know.
And it is important to get those, you know, often some of the plant material are the outer
layers of the male flowers because once they pop open, the outside folds of the flower
starts to dry and drop off.
But when they drop off, they're not really totally dry.
And so what you're doing is adding risk to your pollen because that's essentially water,
right?
There's water in that in that male flower part.
That's going to threaten.
So let's say that you're not immediately going to go over to the female plant to apply the
pollen, but you're also not saving this for months.
Let's say that you're just like saving it for like, let's say three days.
How do you like to put your pollen in to hold it and keep it safe until the day that
you're going to use it?
I like those little amber jars.
I'm not sure the size on them, but you know, they're like a glass essentially, though.
Yeah, glass jar, you know, like the it was a moisture packet.
And that'll be viable for two months at least just in your kitchen or in a cabinet or, you
know, somewhere cool, you know, constant temperature is probably more important.
You know, you don't need to manipulate it too much.
Yeah, yeah.
Room temperature, cool, get it out of the sun, get it out of temperature changes.
Don't put it near the heater.
Yeah, yeah, totally.
And then, you know, another thing you have to be, you know, now and this with the hemp
aphid is aphids will really mess with your pollen viability if you don't get them off
or reduce their population.
You know, that's what we discovered last year.
You know, we lost batches of pollen to the aphid, the hemp aphid.
Wow, I'm really glad I haven't run into that.
So as you're collecting pollen, you're also collecting aphids in the dust.
Is that what it was like?
You can, yeah, you can.
You know, so we actually, I did, you know, this year was a lot of firsts.
This was the first year I ever, you know, sprayed male plants for pesticides.
We just did a insecticidal soap, knocked the aphids down.
Sure, that's interesting though because that's something to keep in mind though because if
you are going to use an insecticidal soap or if you're going to use anything with essential
oils in it at all, all of that could mess with the pollen.
And so you want to make sure that you are aggressive with your pesticide, natural pesticide
remedies early on so that the week that you're expecting your pollen to drop, you're not
doing any of that monkey business.
Yeah, yeah.
And you know, that hemp aphid is tenacious.
So the last thing I want to hit before we go to the first commercial and then come back
and talk about doing this at a much more scaled level.
You mentioned, you know, you applying the pollen with a just, you know, just a simple
water coloring paint brush and you know, this isn't rocket science.
You can, you know, tap above it and let it fall on it or literally paint it.
But the next thing you said is something that I don't usually do.
You mentioned, you know, I think you said wait a couple of days and wash her down.
Talk to us about that.
Oh, you know, if you're I don't do it either.
But if you if you were concerned, if you did like an indoor and you took the female out
of one female out of your room to pollinate it, then you would wait 24, 48 hours to put
it back in.
And if you're really paranoid about, you know, pollinating the other general population,
you would then rinse that off that female off before you brought it in, you know, if
you wanted to be extra safe that, you know, you know.
Sure.
So but when you say rinse it off, do you I mean, I mean, like you don't mean like with
a hose.
You just mean like mist it with a spray bottle?
Sure.
Yeah.
But it depends on how far along in the flower, you know, if you got, you know, depends on
how far you are in the flower.
So what are the different options depending on where it is in the flower?
Break that out a little bit.
Yeah.
And also the, you know, the pollen sticks pretty good there, too.
But yeah, you could just mist it off at any stage.
It would, you know, null the pollen.
So if we're cleaning off the plant and I get the idea, we kind of want to make any loose
pollen that's, you know, on a leaf or didn't really join with the plant.
We don't want to reintroduce that to our tent or put it upwind from a plant that we're not
planning on pollinating.
Will that threaten the pollen that we have already placed on the female flowers that
we want to have turned into seeds?
Not if you wait, you know, 24 to 48 hours.
That's processed, that's already impregnated that I forget what the hair, the stamen, is
it stamen?
Which the female, I forget the technical term, but yeah, it's already started.
His job is done.
Electrical process there.
Yeah, right on.
All right.
Well, cool.
Well, that takes us through, you know, how to do it simply for one person.
So let's go ahead and take our commercial break.
And when we come back, we're going to be talking about scaling it when you're trying to do
this for dozens and dozens of plants as part of a breeding program.
We're going to take a short break and be right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
And my guest today is Daniel Morford of Heart Rock Mountain Farm.
Oxygen is an essential plant nutrient and keeping sufficient dissolved oxygen in the
root zone is a challenge.
Gaia's brand of ultra fine nano bubble systems will help your garden thrive in ways you may
not have considered.
No matter if you grow in soil, hydroponics or aquaponics, Gaia's ultra fine nano bubble
systems will increase your dissolved oxygen and increase your yield.
In addition, the first sign of inadequate oxygen supply to the roots is wilting of the
plant under warm conditions and high light levels.
Insufficient oxygen results in an accumulation of toxins and an insufficient amount of water
and mineral absorption.
If oxygen starvation continues, mineral deficiencies will begin to show, roots die back and plants
will become stunted.
Healthy roots supplied with sufficient oxygen are able to absorb nutrient ions selectively
from the surrounding solution as required.
In studies, this has shown a 30% increase in plant growth.
Not only do ultra fine oxygen bubbles allow your plants to thrive, but they will keep
your drip lines and irrigation pipes and plumbing clean too, because algae, pythium and other
invasive species only survive in low oxygen environments.
And the Gaia system only costs about $2 per day to run.
Gaia ultra fine oxygen nano bubblers are also great for making compost teas and wild crafted
nutrient teas.
The smaller bubbles of truly dissolved oxygen allow more microbes to reproduce faster.
Go to Gaia's website at H205.com to learn more about using dissolved oxygen and how
to purchase this simple yet amazing technology.
That's H205.com.
With the National Hemp Program influx due to stringent THC testing requirements, brothers
Seth and Eric Crawford continue to release seeds to hemp farmers that will be legal,
no matter how you grow them or when you test them.
These new varieties from Oregon CBD seeds have substantial amounts of CBDV, CBGV, CBCV
and THCV while always staying below the .3% THC limit and guaranteeing compliant crops
for farmers every time.
Also, these new varieties cannot be pollinated by your neighbor's uncontrolled pollen or
a rogue male in your own crop either.
Oregon CBD seeds are non-GMO certified too.
Oregon CBD seeds was founded and funded in 2015 by Seth and Eric maxing out their personal
credit cards without outside investment.
They continued to refuse outside investment that would change their company culture.
Oregon CBD grows tons of fresh food on their research farms for local food banks.
They also give away tens of thousands of pounds of R&D flour to patients.
As their company began to succeed, Seth and Eric started donating money to the Cannabis
Medicine and Hemp Fiber Cause too by giving millions of dollars to Oregon State University
in order to establish the world's leading cannabis genomics research program.
And they treat their employees right.
Oregon CBD pays for full health and dental coverage for their employees, a 401k program,
and their minimum starting wage is $20 an hour.
Plus everyone shares food from the farms.
Seth has been on Shaping Fire a few times to talk about novel cannabinoids.
You can check out episodes 25 and 37 on CBD cultivars and the hemp market, episode 66
on triploid cannabis genetics, and the very first Shaping Fire Live, episode 47 with Seth
and soil expert Jeff Lowenfels talking about autoflowers.
If you are a hemp farmer and you want to grow reliable seeds that are sure to thrive in
past testing, check out OregonCBDCeeds.com to learn more about buying seeds for the 2021
season.
That's OregonCBDCeeds.com.
Sometimes the topics I want to share with you are far too brief for an entire Shaping
Fire episode.
In those instances, I post them to Instagram.
I invite you to follow my two Instagram profiles and participate online.
The Shaping Fire Instagram has follow up posts to Shaping Fire episodes, growing and
processing best practices, product trials, and of course gorgeous flower photos.
The Shango Lowe's Instagram follows my travels on cannabis garden tours, my successes and
failures in my own garden, insights and best practices from personal grows everywhere,
and always gorgeous flower photos.
On both profiles, the emphasis is on sharing what I've learned in a way that you can replicate
it in your own garden, your own hash lab, or for your own cannabinopathic health.
So I encourage you to follow at Shaping Fire and at Shango Lowe's and join our online community
on Instagram.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lowe's.
And our guest this week is Daniel Morford of Heart Rock Mountain Farm.
So during the first set, we talked about the real basics of what it is to work with pollen
and how to collect and pollinate one plant when you don't need to save it.
And you know, in an ideal situation, it would be that easy all the time.
But when you start getting really into breeding or producing a lot of different variety of
seeds for your farm to make yourself more self-reliant, the numbers get up pretty quickly.
And one of the reasons why I was excited about having you on the show for this, Daniel, is
we were chatting and you were like, oh yeah, we did 150 different cultivars this year.
And I'm sure that there are other people who are doing that kind of volume, but I've never
heard of that kind of volume before.
And I'm like, my God, keeping over 150 different cultivars straight where on a season that
I do six, I'm all like, oh man, things are starting to get pretty chaotic, right?
So why don't you start us out with, when you are planning for that many plants, how
do you think it through in advance and then start walking us through how you go about
handling that kind of volume?
Yeah, well, I was a little nervous actually.
And I didn't necessarily think it through, but I had a plan.
And necessity is the mother of intervention.
So when we scaled up from eight to 20, I made my first prototype pollen collection box with
cardboard and I got wardrobe boxes.
I pre-slit the front ends of them and then taped those back up so then I could undo those
and access the bottom of the box where I also did a pre-cut square with wax paper.
And then I closed that back up and that was my first pollen collection box.
I put my male bouquet in there, let it do its thing.
It harvested a lot more pollen than previous techniques.
And then when we went from 20 to 50 and 50 to 75, when we went to 20 to 50, I had my
friends in Ukiah help me build wooden pollen collection boxes.
For one, the wardrobe boxes are expensive and then there are a couple uses.
They're unseasoned, they're warped from rinsing them out in between uses and the water really.
So we came up with these really nice wooden boxes that have a drawer in the bottom that
slides out with a plexiglass sheet and then I have a plexiglass lid for it.
And we have 30 of them.
And I upgraded when I went from 50 to 75 males, got by good.
Then from 75 to over 150, we got another dozen boxes made and that really helped.
And then what made with the resources I had and the space collecting over 150 males this
year was that about 70 to 80 of those were F1 autoflower hybrids with photo period.
So they're technically photosensitive, but they came in, that was the first round and
they came in, almost all of those went through my pollen collection system.
Right before the full terms did and I was definitely looking at this massive in-ground
male garden I had and I was sweating.
And then the autoflower hybrids came in early.
I'm like, hey, I think this is actually going to work.
And it was an intense year.
There was many nights, I was up till two in the morning, first start out clearing out
the pollen boxes and harvesting the males that were ready and then spraying down everything
else.
Because that's another thing you can do is you can keep spraying down your males.
If you're like, oh, I can't harvest this yet, spray them down however many times a day till
you're ready to harvest them.
That way you're not getting pollen spread where you want to do it.
That's something that Dragonfly Earth Medicine does, like Moon Gazers out in Red River Valley
do.
That's a technique that you can do.
So yeah, you have to be, if you want to keep males safely outdoors, you have to find a
zone that's good for it or make a zone that's good for it.
And you have to be diligent.
You have to be on top of it.
And the same thing for hand pollinating your females.
You have, it's work and dedication and care.
And there are hacks around that, that you can do it safely.
Like a lot of people I know do the, put the pollen in a turkey bag and put it over the
branch, which I find you don't get as many seeds, but you also don't get as many seeds
elsewhere, which people can like.
But yeah, so backtracking a little bit to, let's just talk about finding the right zone.
Where we're at is pretty unique for ourselves, you know, because we're at the end of a road,
you know, tucked into the hillside there and there's, you know, huge cattle ranch upwind
from us in National Forest.
So when we get those westerly winds that come from the coast, which is 30 miles away, you
know, and where you can, but we still have wind screens up, which the re, the frost protection
fabric, the re-me, I always get confused with the re-mesh, which is like the steel.
But yeah, you get the re-me and then we get the thick, there's two microns.
You get the thicker micron, you can even double it up.
And yeah, so we, and this was our first year doing an in-ground male garden, which was
fun because we'd have had them in pots before, and this was nice to get them trenched in
in the ground.
You know, having, having two different waves of seed creation sounds like it's really working
as a win for you as well.
I mean, I know you, three, all right.
Because like you have the, you know, you've got your auto flowers when a lot of people
grow autos because they do their thing earlier in the season.
And that's very convenient.
So people will have depth autos and then their full terms.
But I would think that with your style, how you're describing it, it also helps with pollen
collection because you can reuse those same boxes, the ones that you're using earlier
in the season for the auto flower collection.
You know, once you've removed those from the male auto flowers, you can wash those down
and then take them on over to your full terms.
And then that way you can make half as many of those nice boxes that you described.
Yeah.
And with the autos in like the springtime, since we have 40 acres and our gardens are
with, you know, are kind of spread out throughout those 40 acres too, a little bit.
So I had different zones for, you know, my autos.
I got, cause I had, I think we did.
And then I made little pollination rooms in some greenhouses too with just plywood and
I used the frost protection fabric.
And then I had like one auto on the backside of a shed and I put T posts around it and
I put that frost, that wind break with that frost protection fabric.
So I would do like, you know, selected open pollinations and with those that were kind
of contained, not field scale, you know, these were, you know, 10 by 20 or were the biggest
ones.
Some of them were just four by fours, you know, depending on which auto I was making
and how many seeds I wanted to make of it.
You know, I'm starting to get this idea that there's enough variety in how you're doing
this.
And, you know, there's, that's probably actually pretty accurate for most farms that, that
they, they don't have enough of any particular, one particular resource.
And so the more they do, the more variety there is in how they do it.
And it sounds like so long as you have the basics down of knowing when the pollen is
going to drop so it doesn't drop unexpectedly and that you exclude the male plant one way
or another, whether or not it's with a cardboard box or your upgraded wooden box, or you make
something, you know, something with, you know, a micron mesh around it, you know, so long
as it's excluded so that pollen stays inside and then you decide how much pollen you want.
And then when you, when you've collected enough, you, you know, you stop the process with water
and then you can remove the box.
It sounds like really you can do that same process with a whole bunch of different techniques
and ways to do it.
But really it's, it's those main activities that have got to be done.
And once you find, you know, the resources that you have as a cultivator that can do
those jobs, you're, you then have your special sauce.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And, you know, it's, and then you're always learning and, oh wow, you know, you know,
someone over here is doing something cool.
I'm going to try that out too.
And, you know, and, you know, one thing that we're going to start moving to, which we haven't
really done too much of besides in our greenhouses is build actually like pollination chambers
and we're going to try this next spring because, you know, we're going to be attempting to
breed out 200 varieties of auto flowers that we have working on at once in our fields with,
you know, I think maybe we're going to make some pollination teepees, you know, because
we have a, we have a fir forest that needs to get thinned and going to use that frost
protection fabrics that, and double layer it around there so that the wind can't hit
them and then let them pollinate.
And then I will mist down the inside of the pollination chamber to make the pollinate
unviable so I can get in there and cut the males out.
And then I can take the fabric off and let them finish off in the full sun.
So when you say pollination chamber, you know, what I picture in my head is the last time
we talked about pollination chambers on the show, it's the ones that Caleb CSI Humboldt
has got and his are indoor and they are, they're negatively pressured because of his HVAC pulls
so much air out of the room that, you know, when he's done, it just pulls the pollen out.
Now I'm imagining you're making a pollination chamber that's outdoors and so probably is
not going to have HVAC.
So are you more talking about, you know, like an inert air environment, like where it's
not being pulled in or sucked out?
It's just a larger exclusion area?
It's I'm just trying to stop the wind from hitting the males and for the auto flowers,
you know, for flowers that's going to do larger ones, you know, I would do hoops and, you
know, and people have done this successfully with just frost protection fabric, double
layered up over their breeding hoops.
And we're going to attempt to do that with autos and in the springtime.
But yeah, so there'll be the walls, we pretty much closed off, there will be a little airflow
on top and, you know, just to so that these 200 varieties won't cross pollinate with each
other.
And then we'll be growing some autos outside in the rows just to see how it works.
So I know that where you are in the valley, you're lucky because there's not a lot of
folks around, but we should probably talk to the idea of using, you know, pollinating
just out into the air.
So yeah, you've run into this many times.
So I'm going to, I'll let you go ahead and lead and I'll follow up with you.
Why should we be careful about how we're spreading our pollen around?
Oh yeah, I mean, is you don't want to seed stuff that you don't want to seed in your
own garden, let alone your neighbors.
And you know, like I said, we're in a unique location where we have done successful field
scales, you know, what I call selected open population, because I reduce the amount of
males by structure and, you know, whatever that you want to say like that, but still,
you know, a decent amount of pollen up there and only with the autos in the spring and
early summer. And, you know, we don't have neighbors close to us that were doing depths
at that time. We do now.
So, you know, I haven't done open pollination since then and have definitely checked in
with them to see where they're at in their cycles, which gave me some relief that they
were in veg when I was pulling in a lot of males.
Yeah, I didn't, you know.
It's it's important, though, to be aware, you know, I like that you have such a good
connection with your neighbors that you know who is depping this year and who is not.
And, you know, it's always good for us to be talking with our neighbors just as being
a healthy cannabis community anyway.
But, you know, like where I live on Vashon Island, no one should be pollinating freely
on excluded outdoors because, you know, my whole island's only 14 miles by six miles,
which means that any pollen that's produced anywhere on the island could get anywhere
on the island. It's just because pollen can travel 15 miles.
Right. So so anywhere on the island that that somebody is just letting pollen go is a
danger to other people who are growing.
And, you know, especially on an island like ours, where there are so many growers who
are patients, you know, you really don't want to pollinate a patient's, you know,
garden, you know, a few parcels down from you and kind of ruin their medicine.
And also, you know, we've talked about before the valley where Oregon CBD seeds is in
Oregon. You know, there's a there's a lot of both THC and hemp farmers there.
And they have had problems before with, you know, rookies new to the scene.
And they're like, oh, we're going to we're going to, you know, pollinate this whole field.
And then and then their whole valley got pollinated.
And so so, you know, Seth Crawford from Oregon CBD seeds is trying to put together what I've
been calling a pollen exclusion zone.
But but he's trying to organize the farmers there to say, hey, let's you know, let's all
agree to this compact that we won't open pollinate on our properties for everybody's
benefit. You know, not trying not not telling them they must not.
But like having people voluntarily get involved, because really, it's not really the best
way to go about it at scale anyway.
But it's really important to be aware of your neighbors.
And while we're at it, I also I also want to shy people away.
You know, it's it's cool and it feels, you know, radical to make these feral hemp bombs.
You know, you like take some mud and you take some nutrients and you take some you take
some seeds, cannabis seeds and and people go around and kind of like just chuck them
right to try to restart feral cannabis in the U.S.
And and while the idea of weed being everywhere sounds pretty cool, the idea of having
these sneaker males just like pop up in nature unexpectedly, it's not really a great way
to go because, you know, you're you're pollinating your neighbor, you could be pollinating
yourself and it's really uncontrolled.
So, you know, I'm all for more and more cannabis for everybody.
But perhaps let's not throw genetics just, you know, willy nilly in nature so that we
have unexpected males everywhere.
And I would say that open pollination, you know, not in the field is probably extremely
rare, if like maybe even like not you should just never do it.
Yeah. And, you know, also we're upwind from us is one of the widest stretches of national
forests in Minnesota County to, you know, not saying that we're not pollinating any
gardens there, but they shouldn't be going there if they are.
Well, you know, I can't say that I've never open pollinated just out naked, you know, in
the air as well.
I mean, I did that once in 2013 when, you know, I didn't I didn't know I didn't hadn't
thought it through. Right.
Honestly. Yeah. And then I thought it through and I'm like, oh, yeah, I don't I don't want
to do this again. And so, you know, for those of us who have done it, it's like, yeah, you
know, doing it out of inexperience is one thing.
But but how about let's not do it on purpose.
While we're talking about open pollination, though, regardless of whether or not it's
it's outside, you know, in the air or whether or not you're open or what's open
pollinating in a in a warehouse facility.
So green or greenhouse or a really closed up hoop house.
Why don't you talk a little bit to the advantages of what open pollination is and and
why it's good, because so far we've only talked about, you know, mostly taking one
specific plant and breeding and mating it to another very another specific female.
But, you know, open pollination captures attributes in a different way.
And so why don't you kind of explain what that is so that people have got a frame of
reference for it?
So, yeah, we did open pollination projects.
In 2018, with our lionclaw auto flower, regular seeds, we did two rounds.
We did a early spring and a late spring, early summer.
And it was magical in the honeybees were harvesting, you know, pollen from the males
and they were just not even paying attention to the females.
Which is cool, because later that year I read an article how, you know, industrial hemp
can that they're growing with males and females can provide summer food for bees when
it's scarce. And that was really beautiful to see.
And you're just going to there's you make a ton more seeds in open pollination, you
know, whether it's in field or in a hoop house than you do with with painting, you
know, more than you ever probably going to need.
And yeah, and so but we did like a selected open pollination.
So we were we were looking for specific males, but you're going to get more diversity in
an open pollination, even a selected open pollination, unless you do and I've done open
pollinations with just one male in a greenhouse, you know, with autos and stuff or
other ones. So you can increase the diversity or in the smaller hoop house, like, you
know, you've got your stud in there with whatever females you want to pollinate and
you're still going to get a lot more seeds that way than, you know, but there are ways
to get a lot of seeds.
Like I'll double paint a female if I really want to make a lot of seeds on it.
You paint it once and then a couple of days later, paint it again, you know, within
it and you can keep painting it for like, you know, depending on how much time you have
left in the season, you know, you want to give yourself a good four weeks to finish out
where you're not painting it again.
You can, you know, on a little two, three foot tall plant, you can get a couple
thousand seeds by double, triple painting.
I'll be doing an open pollination summer 2021 over at a friend's
house who's got some extra space and who doesn't cultivate otherwise.
We've got a we're going to use their greenhouse because there is a there's
an old heritage cultivar here on Vashon called
OVP, original Vashon Purple.
And and the fella who used to,
you know, provide the seeds on the island for the last whatever, 20 years or something,
he moved up to Canada for the last of the last stage of his life.
And so I was given his last 50 seeds and he's all like, you know,
every summer he would take his his best producing plants and he would
make next year's seed out of it.
And so, you know, while it's certainly not a land race, we kind of think of it as an,
you know, acclimatized land race, if you will, because it's become so
great for our particular area, our short summers.
And so these plants are they're early to start.
They're early to finish. They don't grow too big.
And they are, you know, they tend to be mold and pest resistant.
And so, you know, wow, 20 years of selective breeding and just opened,
you know, open pollinated every year.
That's that's that's pretty cool.
And and I grew these seeds once four years ago and the plants were just fantastic.
And they had some good terpene profiles and everything.
But but then I didn't pop any more of the seeds because I'm like, I don't have the skill set yet
to properly preserve these.
And so but now I do.
And so we're going to we're going to pop a bunch of those and just let all the males and the
females hang out in one closed environment and just nature take its course.
But, you know, excluded and closed in.
And so the reason we're doing this and why people open pollinate is so that you can get all
you can get a nice snapshot of all those genetics.
You're going to get, you know, various different males all putting, you know, their different
genetic expressions out and all these different females.
And so, you know, it's the opposite of what most people are looking for when they get a pack,
you know, I mean, a lot of people.
Yeah, OK. I bought a pack of 10 seeds.
I'm hoping for the plant that, you know, was described to me, you know, when I bought the
seeds. And and, you know, nowadays with everybody putting out F1s, that that that plant,
the golden child plant, if you will, may or may not be in the pack.
And and while that's not, you know, many people want that when they buy seeds, there's a lot of
the rest of us who are just all like, OK, we want to know everything that's in this genome.
So let's make a wide variety of seeds and then sift those right for what you're and then start
breeding with. And I I believe it's called a preservation breed, a preservation breed.
Right. And I haven't heard that that term.
And so that's what we're trying to do.
We're trying to take like I was gifted his last 50 seeds.
We probably popped 10 of them so far.
So maybe I've got 40 left.
And so we'll take some number of those and and just pop them and let them go through their
thing. And so what we should end up with is several thousand seeds that in that, you know,
in that grouping will have everything this plant can possibly do shown in it.
And then and then we'll take those seeds and we'll we'll give them out to people, you know, on
Vashon and stuff and and and hope that the lineage can just carry on itself.
And and, you know, I'm jealous of you because, of course, you've got these much larger hoop
houses. So you can do that in a much larger volume than we will do in a, you know, a 15 by
7, 10. Oh, yeah.
And we're breeding on five farms right now, too.
So at least we've had, you know, in farms, genetics going on multiple farms, you know, so
it's yeah, it's, you know, and we took those 150 males and made over 400 combinations of
genetics this year.
Man, you know, you know, I going on, I saw your new seed list and I'm like, I don't know how he
has time for actually growing the plants, you know?
Well, you know, I I'll give a shout out to my my team.
I have an amazing veteran crew and I couldn't have accomplished what I accomplished this year
without them, because, you know, I did take off a lot of time just to focus on, you know,
pollen collection and breeding and seed harvesting where, you know, so.
Yeah, because I also running multiple flower farms and so, yeah, I have a team, amazing
team. And they've been with me for a lot of them, two to five years and a lot of veteran.
So I couldn't have done what I did without my team.
So. Right on.
Right on. That's some good respect.
So so let's go ahead and take another short break.
And when we come back, we're going to talk about preserving pollen and then bringing it out
of refrigeration for use and a couple of things like that.
So you are listening to Shaping Fire.
And my guest today is Daniel Morford of Hard Rock Mountain Farm.
If you listen to Shaping Fire and you grow your own cannabis, chances are high that you are
very particular about the inputs you use for growing.
People like us painstakingly self-educate on cannabis nutrients and techniques so we can
cultivate the best tasting and cleanest flowers possible.
And when we go to purchase those nutrients, we want to be sure that our supplier shares our
values and is providing exceptional quality.
This is why I recommend build a soil dot com to my friends who care about quality.
Build a soil empowers organic growers to do their best work by sourcing and shipping only
the finest cannabis growing supplies from organic inputs, soils, soil testing and pots
to lights, growing tents, sprayers and cover crops.
Build a soil founder Jeremy Silva doesn't just stock his store with what's available.
He goes deep to personally vet each product for quality and determine that there isn't a
better version of the product that he could be selling.
Because of this arduous process, you know that your options on build a soil dot com have
been carefully curated to create the results you are looking for.
Not only that, but the build a soil way is a philosophy that will permeate your interaction
with the company.
From website design to pricing and shipping to after purchase support, Jeremy and his
team always strive to do their best and give you the best customer service in the business.
Check out build a soil dot com today for top tier quality cultivation supplies and a friends
and family buying experience.
And check out their educational videos and extraordinary social media while you're there
too.
Only organic growing supplies at build a soil dot com.
After you've caught up on the latest shaping fire episodes, do you sometimes wish there
was more cannabis education available to learn?
Well we got you.
Shaping fire has a fabulous YouTube channel with content not found on the podcast.
When I attend conventions to speak or moderate panels, I always record them and bring the
content home for you to watch.
The shango los YouTube channel has world class speakers including Zoe Sigmunds lecture, understanding
your endocannabinoid system.
Kevin Jodry of Wonderland Nursery talking about breeding cannabis for the best terpene
profile.
Frenchy Canoli's lost art of the hashishin presentation.
Nicholas Mahmood on regenerative and polyculture cannabis growing.
Dr. Sunil Agarwal on the history of cannabis medicine around the world.
Eric Vlosky and Josh Rutherford on solventless extraction.
And Jeff Lowenfels on the soil food web.
There are several presentations from Dr. Ethan Russo on terpenes and the endocannabinoid system
too.
While you're there, be sure to check out the three 10 part Shaping Fire session series.
One with Kevin Jodry, one with Dr. Ethan Russo and one with Jeff Lowenfels.
And even my own presentations on how to approach finding your dream job in cannabis and why
we choose cannabis business even though the risks are so high.
As of today there's over 200 videos that you can check out for free.
So go to YouTube.com forward slash shango los or click on the link in the newsletter.
As a business owner you are incredibly busy.
In reality you are responsible for everything your company does.
You've got so many responsibilities every single day that often you just don't have
the time to really dig into your marketing as deeply as you'd like.
You know there's more that you could do to reach out to new customers and encourage loyalty
in the customers you already have, but you certainly don't have the time for it and
you're not ready to hire somebody full time for that role either.
For you I recommend blunt branding.
At blunt branding Kirsten Nelson and her team are focused on improving your bottom line.
Most marketing firms are excited to make your logo, packaging and website very pretty, but
they leave responsibility for improving your bottom line up to you.
They don't want that kind of responsibility, but that's pretty much the most important
part of marketing, right?
Kirsten and her team will help you engage new customers, funnel them to your point of
sale whether it be online or a storefront, and keep them coming back to you and telling
their friends.
If you happen to be a new cannabis company or an established company moving from medical
to adult use in your state, Kirsten especially can help you.
Not only is she well versed in marketing and finance, but she totally gets cannabis, whole
plant medicine, terpenes, heritage farmers, and the particular needs of startups.
Check out what she did recently for Moon Time Medicinals and Humboldt at moontimemedicinals.com.
Kirsten and her team put together a whole brand package for them, built their website,
and wrote their sales materials.
No doubt this is a paid commercial spot, but that does not mean they bought my opinion.
I've worked with Blunt Branding on five projects now for various of their clients,
and every single time they have done more than they have promised and over-delivered
on results.
I love how they generate new revenue and focus on that as the goal instead of just making
a pretty logo.
Similarly, every single friend I have referred them to has come back to thank me, and that
just does not happen every day.
Grab a pen and paper, because the website address is coming up.
If you want someone to implement marketing programs that feed your bottom line, give
Blunt Branding a call.
They will share proven techniques to increase your audience and generate sales while using
cutting-edge technology solutions in the background that make all of this easy, automatic, and
trackable.
Go to shapingfire.com forward slash blunt branding to find out more.
You can also click the link in our newsletter.
Blunt Branding, marketing that makes you money.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire, and I am your host, Shango Lose.
Our guest this week is Daniel Morford of Heart Rock Mountain Farm.
So Daniel, what I'd like to talk about in this third set is preserving the pollen, because
it is so sad when we go through all of this effort to exclude and collect and get it all
together, and then we screw up the pollen.
I have done this many times, and the pollen ends up getting corrupted.
There's so many different ways it can get corrupted, but the one that I tend to have
had the harder time with is keeping it properly dry and out of humidity.
Then you see it, and it looks all greased up, and you're like, oh, damn.
It's rotting right there.
So why don't we start with that?
Talk to us a little bit more about how you keep your pollen safe, and then a couple of
the different techniques that you have experimented with to keep it over time.
One pro tip that I learned this year is don't get the cheap moisture packets.
Get the really good ones.
They're bigger than you would need for the actual size jar that you have.
So in these little, I think they're one ounce.
You can see they have sometimes an eighth of cannabis in them.
They're smaller jars, so I have the pollen in there.
I'll put a one inch by two inch moisture packet in there.
I had some smaller ones, and they were not as good.
I definitely had a couple jars of pollen go off this year, but luckily I used the majority
of them with the bigger batches, and some of it was still ... But you can tell when
you open a jar and it smells sour, it's probably not going to be viable.
What kind of packets are you using?
Are you using traditional desiccant, or are you using one of the fancy brands that they're
using now for preserving cannabis?
Oh, no.
Not a fancy brand.
I like the silica ones with the little beads in there.
Those actually help when I go to preserve the pollen, because it's a lot of work harvesting
so much pollen.
When you're done with it, I put it into single use jars, and I've even used just dab jars
to be precise, small.
Once you thaw the pollen, it's only good for about 20 minutes, and then you can't freeze
it again.
I take it from the freezer to the ice chest to where I want to use it, and then it's done.
I definitely take a jar of pollen and empty it into several little jars.
Also, that's why some people use the flower cutting technique, because there's millions
of little grains of pollen in there, and you can cut it if you need it to go further on
your projects.
I've never done that, but you can research that online.
When you say cut it, you mean cutting it with flour?
Yeah.
F-L-O-U-R, flour.
Yes.
Right on.
Do you know what the ratio is?
I've come across that myself.
I think that people use it because it makes the pollen a little easier to work with.
It goes further, and the flour helps decrease the likelihood that any particular pollen
piece will get wet, because the whole thing acts as a moisture sink.
Right.
Yeah.
I've just never done it, but maybe I will start to add in a little bit of rice flour
in it just to help that initial curing process dry out a little bit.
A proper moisture packet is going to do the trick.
In the pollen boxes, they get to hang out there longer than they did on the kitchen
countertop or bathroom countertop.
This year, it was such a fast pace, moving so many.
I don't think I'll attempt what I did this year again at this scale.
I won't need to, because those autoflower hybrids I made that were full term, because
they're the F1, 25% of those are going to be autoflowering in the F2.
I can spread it.
It'll spread out my pollen collection even further.
When they get to sit in the box a little bit longer, or your collection chamber, and dry
out more, you want to let it dry before you close the lid on the jar, or mostly dry.
A good moisture packet is going to save you from spoiling your pollen.
Also, sometimes it doesn't, it's just from the very beginning, it just doesn't cake right,
or it cakes up.
It's not like that nice powder.
That's also, if you have a particular cross you want to make, and you have a couple of
nice males, maybe you want to collect pollen from each of those males to make sure that
if one of your pollen goes bad, you'll have some backup.
Speaking about your process, whichever collection method that you use, you collect it and it's
probably pretty dried out in the bottom of your pollen collecting chamber, or if you're
doing it smaller scale, it's just fallen down next to the mason jar onto some paper, or
glass or something, and then you use a Costco card, I use a razor blade, whatever.
We bring it together dry, and I actually like your technique I'm going to start using
where instead of putting it all in one container, I'm going to put it into multiple smaller
containers because you're right, once you bring it out of refrigeration, you really
can't put it back in because of the condensation.
Do you always put it right into the freezer, or do you often just use the refrigerator?
I never use the refrigerator.
When I'm done making seeds for the season, when I've pollinated everything I want to
pollinate, I'll put them into the single use jars and into the freezer for long term storage.
What's long term?
How long do you think that stuff will stay good?
Unfortunately, we've had some of those power shut offs with the whole wildfires in California
that I haven't been able to keep it for longer than a year, but I did get to use it the next
year.
My ideal breeding program for me is, like last year I used frozen and fresh pollen,
this year I just used fresh pollen, next year I'll use frozen and fresh.
It's just the system I've developed.
I like to take the frozen pollen in the spring or summer and put it on the auto and see if
it's viable.
So you give it a trial first before you commit.
Yeah, and I like crossing things into the auto.
Right, yeah, because it's just for fun.
One of the things that we run into a lot is you have one set of tools, but you're going
to be making all of these crosses, and whether it's your Costco card or brushes or the Pyrex,
you're very likely going to be using some of these tools time and time again.
If you've got a serious breeding program, you can't be cross-pollinating very literally.
What do you do to clean your materials, or do you have any best practices so that you
don't accidentally cross-pollinate?
Yeah, so I have a bunch of those cheap little paintbrushes that you get in a huge pack with
the multiple colors, and I ordered more this year because I needed more.
And then I use them once per variety of pollen, and then I'll put them in my mouth and then
put them into the dirty paintbrush container, and then I'll hand wash those in the soap
in the kitchen sink with soap and water and use them again.
And then, yeah, when I'm harvesting pollen, I clean off my tools in between varieties
of pollen that I'm scraping up.
When I'm harvesting males, I'll clean off my hands, spray mist myself down in between
collections.
Yeah, a spray bottle.
If you have your males in a greenhouse, a spray bottle is going to be a good mist yourself
off when you're done with your males, or change your clothes and mist yourself off and then
change your clothes depending on where you got to walk from your male garden.
So yeah, water is a really good sterilization technique, or water and a little soap, depending
on what you want to do.
I think that a lot of people under-prioritize the misting themselves down, and I think that
so often people will go from where their males may be on the property over to where the females
are, and people don't realize how easy it is to rub up against a plant just passing
it when she's in bloom and brush two or three or eight pieces of pollen off.
And then we all know that even if ... I mean, certainly sometimes we'll get a flower and
we're excited because there's bag seed, right?
We're like, oh, this is great.
Let's grow this out.
Totally.
And so it's like, that can be cool.
But generally speaking, we don't want seeds in our flowers, especially at the commercial
level because people know that this flower is not as potent as it could have been.
And it's fine details like misting yourself that can stop accidental seeds in your product.
And you know that the product that you put out with seeds in it is going to be the person
who gets it.
It's going to be the one that's got the huge Instagram following.
Yeah, and you know, that's why you've really got to be on top of your game if you want
to collect and make seeds, collect pollen and make seeds outdoor.
And I tell you what, you know, at the scale that we did, we definitely have a stray seed
here or two, but we didn't ... nothing peppered.
But like in our garden, one of our gardens that's closest to the male garden, yeah, there
was a seed or two, which is, I mean, a success considering what we did.
And oftentimes we get a message, you know, oh, I found a seed.
And, you know, if you find a seed in the eighth or like, you know, a couple seeds in eighth
occasionally, most customers are going to be stoked, but some are not going to be happy.
You know, and it's interesting too, the different responses that people have to that accidental
seed.
And even, you know, even I judge it differently.
If I get it in, you know, an expensive indoor brand that I have paid money for and they
hold themselves up as being like ultra premium, ultra elite, and they're charging an elite
price, I expect there to not be any damn seeds in my flower.
But you know, most of the farms that I get flower from are, you know, regeneratively
minded folks, outdoors, you know, Dempure certified, you know, more like, you know,
very organic minded down home stuff.
Well, if there's a seed in my pinkleberry, well, I'm actually going to be excited.
And, you know, I'm like, oh, this is cool.
And I'll be happy about that.
And, you know, so my reaction to the seed often has a lot to do with how premium the
brand discusses themselves and how flawless they are, right?
Because, you know, a seed or two, like I'm perfectly cool with that.
But if you say that you're flawless and then there's a seed, well, then I'm all like, oh,
I guess you're not, you know?
Yeah.
And if it's indoor, it's probably from a herm.
You know, so that's not as not good.
So so so we've talked so we've talked about, you know, taking the pollen, splitting it
up into multiple jars, putting in the freezer.
And if you take it out, it's out.
You can't really put it back in because of the condensation that takes place.
Let's say from the freezer, you want to go freezer to, you know, to ice chests because
you got 20 minutes after that thaws of viability.
And then you can't refreeze pollen.
And and then, yeah, so you could take if you let's say you got a bunch of pollen and you
want to, you know, but when you initially harvest your pollen, just keep it constant
temperature, you know, dry, you know, not even in and out of the fridge a lot, unless
you're not going to use it for a couple of months in the same season.
Like let's say it was like, wow, this is super early mail.
I'm not going to have anything for like a month or two or that may at least want to
keep it constant temperature.
So when you take it out of the freezer right before you use it, you then put it into a
an ice cooler.
And the reason of that is so that you can then take that out to wherever you are on
the farm that you're going to use it.
Right. Like if you're not if you're if you're if you're afraid just where you're going to
pollinate or like in your home, you can just take it out.
But you're talking about preserving, slowing down that window that you have to use it.
And I've done it before where I've taken out, you know, I don't know, like 20, 30 jars of
frozen pollen, put it in the ice chest, gone out to my my field and put those 20 to 40
jars on.
40 different females, yeah, with with with really good success.
I don't know.
I've never heard this anywhere, but it's just how I do it.
Once I take it out of the freezer and and, you know, if I had 40 acres, I would take
it out to my plants in, you know, in an ice chest.
But like once I'm ready to use it, I don't usually like to think that I want to have
it come to room temperature with the lid on it.
I want to I want to I think that I want to take the lid off so that any condensation
that might form in the jar actually is immediately going out into the surrounding air.
Does that sound like a good best practice to you or do you do something opposite?
Well, I do.
Another thing, let's just backtrack a little bit to when we put it into the single use
jar. So another reason I like to use those silica packets with the beads in them, the
moisture packets, because I when I go to freeze my pollen, I will cut those open and
I'll put a little of those BBs in each jars and then I will use whatever.
I use a small actual moisture packet that'll fit inside that little dab sized jar.
And then I'll close that up there, too.
And I've I've just always just opened and used it from the ice chest.
I've never. So, you know, once I open the jar, I'm out in the environment.
So, yeah, I open the jar.
As it then thaws as I'm using it.
So, yeah, I would I would say, yeah, probably you want the jar to be open.
Yeah, right on. And yeah, using the desiccant packet that in the small jars is not
something that I was considering in my example.
So that's a good thing, too.
Yeah, I just do it because it's a lot of it's a lot of work and I want to make sure that
that hard work is preserved by a cheap little moisture packet.
Yeah, totally. It's worth the nickel.
So, you know, once once the word gets out that you are successful at collecting viable
pollen, invariably people ask for that.
Right. And sometimes that's good because maybe you want to trade with somebody.
But but trading pollen is challenging because mostly because of all of the temperature
issues that we've already talked about.
But, you know, I've heard of people mailing pollen.
Have you ever done that? And do you have a best practice?
I have not mailed pollen, but I know people do mail pollen.
And, you know, if it's dry and, you know, it's fresh, you know, and it's packaged where
it's going to I'm it's I'm sure it would most likely make it to where it's going and be
viable for use.
You know, it's I have offered up pollen to, you know, some of the grower groups I'm a
part of in Minnesota County.
And I did that one year.
And it's a lot of work and it was fun.
And I got some, you know, but I usually don't advertise it.
And, you know, I have a couple of friends that I give pollen to that, you know, make
sure to hit me up and come by my house to get to get it.
You know. Yeah.
And I think that's really the way to do it, too.
Right. I mean, I definitely do think that as as cannabis is increasingly normalized,
that that the sale of pollen is going to become more popular, just like the sale of
clones. It has become more popular and therefore people are developing new best
practices for sending clones.
I think the same thing can be happening for pollen.
And there are certainly some hardcore heads who are doing it, but I would not say that
it's common yet.
Yeah. And, you know, I would say just like how you get those live predator bugs in the
mail, you know, if someone was willing to pay for it, you know, that would probably be
the best practice to make, especially in these hot summers, to make sure that it stayed at
a cooler temperature and got to where it was going.
Yeah, that's actually a pretty good point.
The same the same things that I would think about for selling, sending insects, anything
living is the same same kind of headspace I would use about pollen.
Yeah, that's good.
And like I said earlier, you know, when pollen's gone off, it has a sour smell to it
and taste and taste, too, you know.
So that's exactly where I was going to finish up, which was, you know, when you're
trading with pollen, mostly you just need to take the person's word for it and how it
was handled and stuff.
What are there other things that you would be looking for in pollen?
I have not run into the sour smell you described, but I do I am familiar with like
discoloration when it goes from whiteish or yellow to beige, you know.
And the consistency of it, you know, like if it's like a, you know, a dry, grainy powder
that doesn't really stick and kind of doesn't it moves, you know, more like sand, like
very, you know, individualized there.
But, you know, one thing that does come to mind since we're talking about pollen and
I did send some pollen off for research and development.
And they were it's I think for wellness that they make like the among other things,
like some, you know, cannabis oils for like sexy time.
And he thought that cannabis could be like a male supplement, like, you know, pine
pollen's a natural testosterone booster.
Right on.
So I was actually eating like fresh male flowers and you get energized, actually.
You get a little buzz from, you know, eating fresh pollen sacks.
Well, you know, I'm going to be doing that summer 2021.
I mean, I enjoy eating bee pollen and it's really good for your immune system.
But I've never eaten the cannabis pollen.
It's going to be the super.
I imagine like little dried male flowers dipped in chocolate, you know, sold at a co-op
someday.
Right on.
Well, Daniel, thank you so much for taking some time and talking with us when when you
told me that you had done, you know, such large groups successfully of pollination this
year. I was really excited to record with you.
And, you know, I've been growing your seeds now for two years and they're, you know,
they've been universally reliable and very enjoyable.
So I figured this would be a great time to to get together.
So thanks for taking some time here at the end of your season to share your experience
with us and, you know, help people get a little a little deeper into their considerations
and use of pollen.
You know, it's been a pleasure and I look forward to sitting down with you again sometime
in the future when something else fun and juicy to talk about.
And, you know, thanks again for, you know, it was really a nice opportunity to be able
to give you those seeds and to get some to some medical patients.
And yeah, actually, we should mention that, too.
That's actually how we what we met was like what, three years ago now or so when you're
you're at least I think it's your most popular cultivar, the lion's claw, which was
originally called OG Gold.
You were kind enough to send out like 100 packs to Vashon for us to give away to patients.
And and it was the first time that I had come across an auto that had so much of the
skunky alcohol esters in it.
It had some real funk, you know, so many so many of the early auto flowers were sweets
and berries and things like that.
So so, yeah, thanks again for sending out those seeds all those years ago.
And it was it was really crazy to have, you know, so many people on Vashon suddenly, you
know, be be, you know, having and trading lion's claw auto flowers.
It's like, wow, they're everywhere.
So. Oh, yeah, it's been it's been fun for me, too.
Like I went to check out a couple processing facilities and I see tubs in their rooms.
Oh, lion claw. Like, oh, that's fun.
You know, it's definitely fun to it's really got, you know, got out.
And, you know, we definitely have tons of those seeds and we hope to get it out even
more this year. Fantastic.
All right, brother. Thank you so much.
All right. To find out more about Daniel.
You can check out Heart Rock Mountain Farm on Instagram and Heart Rock Mountain Farm
dot com. And also, as I was just saying, if you're looking for a fresh approach to
genetics, be sure to check out Daniel's regular auto flowers and photo period seeds.
You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the show at
Shaping Fire dot com and wherever you get your podcasts.
If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it if you would leave a positive review of
the podcast wherever you download.
Your view will help others find the show so they can enjoy it, too.
On the Shaping Fire website, you can also subscribe to the newsletter for insights into
the latest cannabis news, exclusive videos and giveaways on the Shaping Fire website.
You also find transcripts of today's podcast as well.
Be sure to follow on Instagram for all original content not found on the podcast.
That's at Shaping Fire and at Shango Lose on Instagram.
Be sure to check out the Shaping Fire YouTube channel for exclusive interviews, farm
tours and cannabis lectures.
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email Hotspot at Shaping Fire dot com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire.
I've been your host, Shango Lose.
